-- 
Tanzania Lawmakers Approve Plan That Includes Proposed Mine Tax

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-06-15T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/tanzanian-lawmakers-approve-plan-that-includes-proposed-super-profit-tax.html
Tanzanian lawmakers approved a five-
year development plan that includes a proposal for a so-called
super-profit tax for mining companies, an official in the
presidency said.  “The plan has been passed by Parliament,” Stephen Wassira,
minister of state in the president’s office in charge of social
relations and coordination, said by mobile-phone text message
yesterday. “What follows is to start implementation.”  Wassira didn’t immediately respond to a question about
whether approval of the five-year plan meant the proposed levy
would be implemented. Mines Minister William Ngeleja referred
questions on the tax to Finance Minister Mustafa Mkulo, who
didn’t answer his mobile phone when called for comment.  Tanzania vies with  Mali  to be  Africa ’s third-biggest gold
producer and is the world’s only known source of the blue
gemstone tanzanite. The country’s Planning Commission last week
published a document that said it may be “optimal” to introduce
a super-profit tax in the  mining industry  as a way to fund a
proposed 42.9 trillion-shilling ($27 billion) economic-
development plan. It said the levy may be appropriate
“considering the increasing trend in mineral prices.”  The commission cited data that showed gold exports from the
East African country increased to $1.5 billion, or 7 percent of
gross domestic product, from $500 million over the past five
years, while annual government revenue from sales of the metal
remained at $100 million, or 0.5 percent of GDP.  IMF Support  The International Monetary Fund’s Fiscal Affairs Department
held talks with the Tanzania’s Finance Ministry about the issue
prior to its announcement and backs an additional levy on mining
projects with “particularly high” returns, an IMF official said.  “The IMF supports the idea of what we call a resource rent
tax on mining projects,” John Wakeman-Linn, the IMF’s
representative in the East African country, said in an e-mailed
response to questions on June 13. He didn’t say when the mission
met the Finance Ministry officials.  “The appropriate level for any tax would depend on many
factors, including the broader economic policy framework,
spending plans and any other measures being taken to increase
 tax revenue ,” Wakeman-Linn said.  African Barrick Gold Ltd. (ABG) , the biggest producer of the
metal in Tanzania, operates four mines in the country. The
company said on June 8 its mines in Tanzania are subject to
Mineral Development Agreements that guarantee tax and “fiscal
stabilization” for projects. The accords can’t be amended
without the company’s approval, it said in a statement.  Existing Arrangement  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s third-biggest gold
miner, said its Geita mine in Tanzania won’t be affected because
an existing arrangement is valid for the life of the mine.  Other companies that have a presence in Tanzania include
Bermuda-based  Tanzanite One Ltd. (TNZ) , and Tanzania Royalty
Exploration Corp. of  Canada .  Last year, Tanzania’s Parliament passed a mining law that
increases royalties paid on minerals to 4 percent from 3 percent
and gave the government a stake in all future projects.  The commission said the proposed super-profit tax is
similar to one being implemented in  Australia , where a planned
30 percent levy on iron-ore and coal profits will earn A$7.7
billion ($8.2 billion) in its first two years, the country’s
Treasury Department said last month. The tax is scheduled to
start in July 2012 after the laws are passed by parliament.  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  in July scaled back
the original proposal for a 40 percent tax on all resource
profits to a levy with a higher threshold that exempts most
commodities.  The five-year plan targets an annual average economic
growth rate of 8 percent from 2011-12 to 2015-16. The expansion
is expected to accelerate to 10 percent by 2025, it said.  Tanzania’s gold output ranked behind  South Africa  and Ghana,
and alongside Mali’s 44.6 metric tons in 2010, according to
London-based research company  GFMS Ltd.   To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam  via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 