-- 
Aramco Aims for ‘Quantum Leaps’ in Chemicals, Official Says

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-06-14T09:27:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/aramco-aims-for-quantum-leaps-in-chemicals-official-says.html
Saudi Arabia  needs to make “quantum
leaps in both the size and the quality of the kingdom’s
chemicals industry” by expanding into new products, an official
with state-run oil producer Saudi Aramco said.  While the kingdom holds more than a quarter of global oil
and natural gas reserves, it has only a 2 percent share of the
chemicals market, Abdullatif Al-Othman, Saudi Aramco’s vice
president of finance, said in a  speech  in Al Khobar.  Persian Gulf oil producers such as Saudi Arabia and the
United Arab Emirates are diversifying their economies to include
industries such as petrochemicals to reduce reliance on oil
exports and create jobs.  Aramco, the world’s largest state oil company, is seeking
to expand petrochemical production alongside its refineries to
create more high-value products from its crude.  Saudi Basic
Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest chemicals maker, is
expanding via joint ventures in  China  and aims to develop more
specialty chemicals at home.  “We have a tremendous amount of unrealized upside
potential, especially with much more sophisticated, higher-value
chemical products,” Al-Othman said in the speech posted on
Aramco’s website yesterday. “Our performance in manufacturing
chemicals has a long way to grow, especially in the areas of
specialties, pharmaceuticals and life-science products.”  Saudi Aramco will use gas liquids and natural gas
feedstocks for petrochemical facilities it is planning as an
extension of refineries and gas processing plants, Al-Othman
said. The company and  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  are planning a $20
billion facility at Jubail on the Persian Gulf coast, where
Aramco is also developing a joint 400,000 barrel-a-day refinery
and petrochemicals plant with  Total SA. (FP)   Rabigh Refining and Petrochemicals Co., a venture between
Aramco and Sumitomo Chemical Co., is planning an expansion of
its capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 