-- 
Marcus Says South African Monetary Policy Faces ‘Challenge’ as Costs Rise

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-06-14T15:21:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/marcus-says-south-african-monetary-policy-faces-challenge-.html
South Africa ’s economic recovery is
becoming more “self-sustained,” while rising fuel and food
costs are pushing up inflation and creating a challenge for
monetary policy, Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus said.  Risks to the inflation outlook are on the “upside,”
Marcus said in the bank’s annual report, released in the
capital,  Pretoria , today.  The Reserve Bank has kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 5.5 percent this year, forecasting that inflation,
which reached 4.2 percent in April, will breach the bank’s 3
percent to 6 percent target range in the first quarter of 2012.
Moody’s Investors Service said last week the bank may raise
rates later this year.  “Global commodity price increases have begun to pose risks
to the domestic inflation outlook,” Marcus said. “This is
expected to create a challenge for monetary policy going
forward.”  Marcus told reporters in Pretoria today that her assessment
hasn’t changed since last month’s Monetary Policy Committee
meeting, when the bank left  interest rates  unchanged.  “This is very much in keeping with what we have said,”
Marcus said. “There are signs of a recovery, it is fragile, and
we’re concerned about the globe.”  Inflation Focus  The bank will continue to focus on its goal of  price
stability , which will provide the proper environment for faster
economic growth and job creation, Marcus said.  Africa’s biggest economy is forecast by the bank to expand
3.6 percent this year. The government has pledged to create 5
million new jobs by 2020, which requires economic growth of 7
percent a year, according to government estimates.  “We will continue to give primacy to our objective of
price stability, and implement monetary policy within a flexible
inflation-targeting framework,” Marcus said.  The  Reserve Bank  boosted employee salaries by 7 percent
last year, which included a 4.3 percent average settlement and
2.7 percent performance increase, Marcus said. Directors of the
board were awarded a 5.5 percent average increase, while the
bank raised Marcus’s pay by 4.5 percent, Thandeka Mgoduso, head
of the remuneration committee, told reporters today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 