-- 
Arizona Lawmakers Let Jobless Aid Lapse

-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 
2011-06-14T18:28:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/arizona-lawmakers-let-jobless-aid-lapse.html
Arizona lawmakers declined to act on
a call by Governor Jan Brewer to extend federal jobless
benefits, allowing support for 15,000 people and almost $3.5
million per week in federal aid to expire.  Republican lawmakers, who control the Legislature, argued
that unemployment checks deter job-seeking. They also expressed
concerns about the federal deficit and the amount of U.S.
Treasuries held by  China . Instead, they pushed for “job-
creation” tax breaks for corporations.  “This is just a Band-Aid on a very infected sore, the bad
economy of the  United States ,” Senator Sylvia Allen, a
Republican from Snowflake, said yesterday during a special
session called by Brewer. In the Senate’s opening prayer, which
she led, Allen asked God to help unemployed workers find jobs.  In pushing fellow Republicans on jobless aid, Brewer broke
ranks with the legislative leaders with whom she worked to pass
laws that created a national uproar. She signed legislation last
year requiring police officers to check immigration status of
people they stop, a move that led to a court challenge by the
Obama administration. She also slashed Medicaid funding for
organ transplants and signed a measure allowing any citizen over
21 to carry a concealed firearm without a permit.  Immigration Law  The immigration law spurred calls for convention boycotts
by trade groups and local governments including the Los Angeles
City Council. A November study, conducted by Arizona-based
Elliott D. Pollack & Co. on behalf of the Center for American
Progress, found that the state lost $141 million in direct
spending by convention attendees because of the cancellations.  Brewer, 66, argued that rejecting the jobless aid would
hurt the economy by causing the potential loss of about $90
million in federal funds by year-end. She also said in her
statement calling the special session that similar legislation
had been passed by “conservative strongholds like  Texas ,
 Tennessee ,  Kentucky ,  Indiana ,  Idaho  and  South Carolina .”  The governor sought support for the extended benefits by
adding additional  accountability measures  for recipients,
requiring them to look for work four days a week instead of two
and to accept any job they were offered that paid at least
minimum wage. She also included a measure that would prevent
some businesses from getting a tax increase next month.  Tax Breaks  Brewer declined to expand the  session call  to address
bigger tax breaks for corporations pushed by legislative leaders
including House Speaker Andy Tobin. She had vetoed similar plans
earlier this year. The special meeting, which included a floor
session on June 10, ended yesterday just one hour into the
second day of work without consideration of any bills.  About 15,000 people in  Arizona  will receive their last
unemployment payment this week, and 30,000 more may be affected
by year-end, according the Economic Security Department. The
payments would have provided 20 additional weeks of payments for
the long-time unemployed, who will now be cut off at 79 weeks
instead of 99.  “I remain concerned and deeply saddened for those families
whose unemployment assistance will shortly expire, especially in
this uncertain job market,” Brewer said in a statement after
the session ended.  Jobless Rate  State law authorizes extended benefits when the
unemployment rate is at least 110 percent of what it was two
years earlier. Federal rules allow states to compare the rate to
three years earlier.  The jobless aid expired this month because the state’s
 unemployment rate  of 9.3 percent in April is unchanged from the
same month in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
was almost double the 4.9 percent of April 2008.  Democrats, who began calling for the issue to be addressed
during the regular session that ended April 20, took to the
floor to decry what they called the heartlessness of their
colleagues. They are outnumbered in the Senate 21 to 9, and by
40 to 20 in the House.  “The message we are sending the state of Arizona and
people who are suffering through this hard economic time is that
we don’t care,” said Senator Steve Gallardo, a Democrat from
Phoenix, who described extending the benefits as a “moral
obligation.”  Some Republicans took the opportunity to blast Brewer for
calling them to work at the last minute and for not conceding to
do more on taxes as part of the deal.  Senator Ron Gould, a Republican from Lake Havasu City, said
Brewer had thrown lawmakers “under the bus” even as she owed
them for her election, which he credited to the immigration law,
known as SB 1070, which catapulted Brewer to the national stage.  “This might be the thing that breaks the relationship,”
Gould said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
acrawford24@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 