-- 
Asian Stocks Rise, Erasing Earlier Declines, After China Economic Reports

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-06-14T11:46:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/asian-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-before-chinese-economic-reports.html
Asian stocks rose, erasing earlier
declines, after  China  released reports showing industrial output
grew more than economists forecast and that inflation
accelerated at the fastest pace in almost three years.  China Coal Energy Co., a Beijing-based coal producer, pared
its advance to 1.8 percent as China raised the reserve ratio
requirement for major banks.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No.
1 mining company, lost 0.2 percent, paring a decline of as much
as 1.8 percent ahead of the Chinese data. Tokyo Electric Power
Co., the owner of the stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant, jumped 25 percent in Tokyo, leading Japanese power
companies higher after  Japan ’s Cabinet approved a bill to help
the utility compensate victims of the worst nuclear disaster in
25 years.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1.1 percent to 132.88 as
of 8:45 p.m. in  Tokyo , with all 10 industry groups rising.  “The market had been fearing an increased likelihood of a
hard landing in China,” said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based
strategist for AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has almost $100
billion under management. “Instead, the growth numbers are
better than expected and it seems that inflation is coming in
line with expectations.”  China’s inflation accelerated to 5.5 percent in May, with
the annual gain in consumer prices matching the median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The Beijing government
has an annual target for the consumer price index of 4 percent.
Production rose 13.3 percent last month, the statistics bureau
said in Beijing today, compared with a 13.1 percent forecast.  Debt Rating  The Asia-Pacific gauge earlier slipped as much as 0.2
percent after Standard & Poor’s cut  Greece ’s credit rating to
the lowest debt grade, feeding doubts about the strength of the
global economic recovery.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average gained 1.1 percent, also
extending gains after the  Bank of Japan  maintained  interest
rates  near zero and unveiled a 500 billion yen ($6 billion) loan
program to help the country’s earthquake-hit economy recover.  South Korea’s Kospi Index advanced 1.4 percent.  Australia ’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index, which was shut for a public holiday yesterday,
rose 0.5 percent, having retreated as much as 1.1 percent
earlier.  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  erased gains, closing down 0.1
percent after China announced a further increase to the reserve
ratio requirement for major banks to curb inflation. A half
percentage point increase announced by the central bank today
and effective June 20 will take it to a record 21.5 percent for
the nation’s biggest lenders.  ‘Spooked People’  Bank of Communications Co., part-owned by HSBC Holdings Plc,
closed down 0.7 percent at HK$7.42 in Hong Kong after rising as
much as 0.8 percent.  “Markets initially reacted positively to the China
inflation numbers because they didn’t surprise too much to the
upside,” said AMP Capital’s Naeimi. “The market priced out any
near-term hikes in interest rates, and now the sudden increase
to the reserve ratio requirement has spooked people.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.7
percent today. In New York, the index rose 0.1 percent yesterday,
rebounding from six weeks of losses, as a pickup in takeovers
and the cheapest valuations in almost a year helped offset
concerns about a slowdown in the economic recovery.  Transatlantic Holdings Inc. (TRH) , the reinsurer formerly owned
by American International Group Inc., agreed to merge with
Switzerland’s Allied World Assurance Company Holdings AG. VF
Corp., an apparel maker, also said it will buy  Timberland Co. (TBL) , a
footwear maker, for $1.8 billion.  China Coal, BHP  U.S. stocks fell before rebounding and oil extended losses
as S&P cut Greece’s credit rating by three levels to CCC.  China Coal rose 1.8 percent to HK$10.32 in Hong Kong. It
earlier advanced 3.9 percent. Aluminum Corp. of China advanced
as much as 2.6 percent, and closed 0.3 percent higher at HK$6.68.  BHP Billiton , also Australia’s biggest oil producer, fell
0.2 percent to A$43.05 in Sydney. Rio Tinto Group was little
changed at A$80.21 and Korea Zinc Co lost 0.3 percent to 377,500
won in  Seoul . All three companies pared earlier declines.  Crude oil for July delivery fell 2 percent to $97.30 a
barrel in  New York  yesterday, while the London Metal Exchange
Index of prices for six metals including copper and aluminum
dropped for a second day.  “Concerns about the economic slowdown are emerging and
investors are increasingly avoiding risk assets,” said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi , a strategist at Tokyo-based SMBC Friend Securities Co.
“Investors are unwinding their positions in the commodity
market.”  Tepco Rebound  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has fallen 4.5 percent this
year through yesterday, compared with a gain of 1.1 percent by
the  S&P 500  and a drop of 2.6 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.4 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 12.8 times for the
S&P 500 and 10.8 times for the Stoxx 600.  Tokyo Electric surged 25 percent to 249 yen in Tokyo. Tepco
shares surged after the stock exchange clamped down on short-
selling of the stock and the Cabinet approved a bill to help
compensate victims of the disaster.  The Mainichi newspaper reported that the utility may raise
electricity rates by 16 percent in the next fiscal year under a
plan to deal with the aftermath of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear-plant disaster.  Japanese Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  later said he thinks a
16 percent tariff increase is impossible, Kyodo News reported,
citing comments made by the minister following a Cabinet meeting.  Chubu Electric Power Co. gained 13 percent to 1,307 yen
after the Nikkei newspaper reported that it and Marubeni Corp.
were close to winning an order for a gas-fired combined-cycle
power plant in Oman with a Qatari utility.  In Seoul, Hankook Tire Co.,  South Korea ’s largest tiremaker,
jumped 9 percent to 42,500 won. Korea Investment & Securities Co.
said in a report that an 8.2 percent slump in the shares
yesterday, triggered by concern about a recall in China, was
“overdone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 