-- 
Asian Currencies Advance on Optimism China Will Avoid Slump

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-06-14T09:15:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/asian-currencies-advance-on-optimism-china-will-avoid-slump.html
Asian currencies strengthened, led
by Malaysia’s ringgit, on optimism a resilient Chinese economy
will help regional exporters weather  Europe ’s debt crisis and a
U.S. economic slowdown.  China reported today industrial production grew more than
economists forecast and inflation accelerated to the fastest
pace in almost three years. The world’s second-largest economy
is the No. 1 export destination for  South Korea , Taiwan and
 Thailand . Pan Jiancheng, deputy director-general of the China
Economic Monitoring and Analysis Center of the National Bureau
of Statistics, said a “hard landing” is unlikely, according to
a China News Service report.  The ringgit climbed 0.4 percent to 3.0313 per dollar as of
5 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Singapore dollar gained 0.5 percent to S$1.2314 and South
Korea’s won strengthened 0.3 percent to 1,082.60.  Taiwan ’s
dollar and India’s rupee appreciated 0.2 percent to NT$28.85 and
44.75, respectively.  “China’s demand or internally driven growth is still
pretty strong,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a Singapore-based
foreign-exchange strategist at Westpac Banking Corp.,
Australia’s second-largest lender. “That’s positive for risk
currencies.”  Industrial production in Asia’s biggest economy increased
13.3 percent in May, more than the median forecast for a 13.1
percent gain in a Bloomberg survey, a government report showed
today. That compared with a 13.4 percent rise in April.
Inflation quickened to 5.5 percent in May, the most since July
2008, from 5.3 percent the previous month.  Yuan Appreciation  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index sunk to a two-week
low yesterday as signs the U.S. recovery is faltering coupled
with a deepening debt crisis in  Greece  prompted investors to
favor safer bets than emerging-market assets. Overseas investors
sold $1.8 billion more Korean, Taiwanese and Thai shares than
they bought this month through yesterday, according to exchange
data. The index rebounded 0.2 percent today.  China ’s yuan strengthened on speculation authorities will
allow further gains to reduce the cost of imported goods. The
currency advanced 0.04 percent to 6.4803 per dollar.  China’s central bank said today it will boost lenders’
reserve-requirement ratios by half a percentage point effective
June 20, the sixth increase of this year. China has also boosted
 interest rates  twice and allowed the yuan to gain 1.7 percent in
2011.  “It looks like price pressures are still mounting and
currency appreciation is likely to be accelerated to curb
imported inflation,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Credit Agricole CIB. “Especially given solid data
on economic activities, this should push the yuan up.”  Chinese Slump Unlikely  Tighter monetary conditions in China will not bring about
an economic slump, HSBC Holdings Plc economists Qu Hongbin and
Sun Junwei wrote in a research note released yesterday. A
central bank report yesterday showing a 25 percent drop in new
yuan loans in May from April “is good news for Beijing’s
ongoing battle against inflation,” they wrote.  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah added 0.1 percent to 8,538
per dollar, the Thai baht strengthened 0.1 percent to 30.45 and
the Philippine peso declined 0.1 percent to 43.368.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  