-- 
Aston Villa Faces 5 Million-Pound Fee to Sign McLeish as Coach: Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-06-14T09:28:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/aston-villa-faces-5-million-pound-fee-to-sign-mcleish-as-coach-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  McLeish Tussle  Birmingham City will demand 5 million pounds ($8.2 million)
in compensation from  Aston Villa  should its Midlands rival want
to sign Alex McLeish, who quit as the Blues’ manager two days
ago, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  City will stop the ex-Rangers and Scotland manager moving
unless it gets the money the club says it’s entitled to
according to his contract terms.  “I don’t want McLeish back,” acting chairman Peter Pannu
was cited as saying. “If he is going to go, I want the money.”  Ronaldo Snubs City  Real Madrid’s Cristiano Ronaldo dismissed talk of a 150
million-pound move to  Manchester City , even with the prospect of
21 million pounds a year in wages,  the Sun  reported.  “It’s not bad, huh? We have to think about it well,” the
Sun cited him as saying. “I’m not going to City. I give you my
word. I’m not going. Money is not the most important thing.”  City has opened talks over a 27 million-pound deal to sign
Udinese winger Alexis Sanchez, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Drogba for Modric?  Chelsea striker  Didier Drogba  could be part of a deal that
would see him move to Tottenham, with midfielder Luka Modric
moving the opposite way, the  Mirror  reported.  Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  highly rates Drogba and
would “love” to take him if Chelsea let him go and finances
allowed, the newspaper added.  According to  the Sun , Chelsea is ready to offer Modric
130,000 pounds a week to switch to Stamford Bridge, almost
tripling his current salary.  Samba Battle  Redknapp is ready to battle with Arsenal’s Arsene Wenger to
sign Blackburn defender Chris Samba, according to  the Mirror .  Redknapp wants to sign two central defenders with Premier
League experience, the newspaper said. Arsenal has already had
an 8 million-pound bid rejected, the Mirror added.  Hughton Decision  Fulham is pressing  Chris Hughton  to decide whether he wants
to join  Martin Jol  as assistant manager,  the Mail  said.  He’s delaying a decision as he wants to see whether he’s
offered the Cardiff managerial post, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 