-- 
AT&T’s Exit Pushes Alestra Borrowing Costs Higher: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-06-14T22:16:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/at-t-selling-stake-pushes-alestra-s-borrowing-costs-higher-mexico-credit.html
AT&T Inc. (T) ’s sale of a 49 percent
stake in Alestra SA is sparking losses in debt issued by the
Mexican phone-service provider that are leaving it out of a
corporate bond rally.  Yields on Alestra dollar bonds due 2014 have jumped 23
basis points, or 0.23 percentage point, to 6.17 percent since
AT&T said April 15 it will sell the stake to its joint-venture
partner, Alfa SAB. Average yields on Mexican corporate dollar
debt fell 10 basis points in the period to 6.20 percent,
according to data from JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Alestra stands to lose contracts that were brought in by
AT&T, the biggest U.S. phone carrier, and will miss its business
expertise and global presence, according to Moody’s Investors
Service. AT&T is now free to partner with other local
telecommunications providers to win corporate communications
clients.  “Our big question was about the competitive environment,”
Nymia Almeida, a Moody’s analyst in  Mexico  City, said in a
telephone interview. Moody’s changed the outlook on Alestra’s B1
rating to negative from stable after the AT&T move. “What’s
going to happen when their partner becomes a competitor? That’s
the big doubt that made us a little more conservative with the
rating.”  Alestra’s revenue will decline next year, Moody’s said,
without providing a specific forecast. Revenue dropped every
quarter in the year through the first half of 2010. It rose 10
percent to $96 million in the first quarter of 2011. The company
didn’t provide a full-year revenue forecast for this year.  Alfa Subsidiary  Alfa, the San Pedro Garza Garcia-based group that also
makes auto parts and processed foods, founded Alestra with AT&T
in 1995. The company focuses on providing phone, Internet and
data to corporate customers.  AT&T is set to complete the sale of its Alestra stake this
month, according to the April 15 statement. Financial terms
weren’t disclosed.  AT&T subsidiary AT&T Global Network Services, known as
AGNS, will offer services to clients in Mexico through partners,
including Alestra, that have the necessary network
infrastructure, spokeswoman McCall Butler said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  “Although Alestra will be a key transport infrastructure
supplier to AGNS Mexico, AGNS Mexico and Alestra may compete for
enterprise consumers’ business,” she wrote. “This promotes
competition for such services in Mexico.”  Alestra will struggle to attract new customers without the
cachet of AT&T behind it, Moody’s said.  “What they have to do is define their long-term strategy
and how they’re going to consolidate their position in the
market,” said Araceli Espinosa, a debt analyst at Scotia
Capital in Mexico City. “It’s not going to be easy.”  Debt Default  The company negotiated with bondholders to extend
maturities and lower  interest rates  as part of a restructuring
plan in 2003, a year after it defaulted on $570 million of debt.  “Alestra is a financially solid company that generates
consistent and growing  cash flow , and has been capable of
financing its growth plan with internal resources and servicing
its debt,” Enrique Flores, Alfa’s investor relations chief,
said in a telephone interview.  Alestra will still work with AT&T and the loss in revenue
will be offset in part through that continued relationship and
with internal growth, Alestra spokesman Sergio Bravo said.  Slim’s Dominance  “We expect that it will be compensated for and that there
won’t be a material impact,” he said.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed 9 basis points
to 136 at 5:18 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in December were unchanged at 5 percent. The peso rose
0.5 percent to 11.7971 per dollar.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell three basis points to 106, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Regulators’ efforts to end billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s
dominance in the telecommunications market are helping Alestra
cut costs, offsetting in part the loss of AT&T, said Robert Claiborne, head of credit research at Cutwater Asset Management
Corp., which oversees about $40 billion of fixed-income assets,
including Alestra bonds.  Connection Fees  Mexican officials have sought to reduce the fees Slim’s
 America Movil  SAB charges to connect calls coming from lines
owned by other providers. The Federal Telecommunications
Commission ruled in March that Alestra should pay America Movil
a rate of 39 centavos a minute to connect such calls, less than
half the rate America Movil was seeking.  “We’re still comfortable with the credit,” Claiborne said
in a telephone interview from Armonk,  New York . “We’ve seen
pretty good growth in the data and internet services business of
the company.”  An America Movil official who asked not to be named in
accordance with company policy declined to comment. Alestra’s
consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization -- a measure of profit known as Ebitda -- increased
19 percent to $32 million in the first quarter, led by services
including data and Internet. Alestra’s net debt-to-Ebidta ratio
fell to 1.42 times in the period, from 1.96 in the same quarter
last year.  Ebitda Forecast  Ebitda will climb 8.5 percent to $127 million this year,
according to the spokesman Sergio Bravo, who said the profit
measure is increasing faster than an original 2011 forecast of
$123 million.  Scotia Capital ’s Espinosa said the company needs to prove
it can expand its business without a key strategic partner.  “Lower tariffs alone can’t generate more cash flow,”
Espinosa said. “We have to see if what they’re saving in
payments is going to be enough to move the company forward. I
don’t think so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  