-- 
Tata Consultancy Hires 70,000 Workers a Year as Demand Booms

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-06-15T11:39:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/tata-consultancy-hires-70-000-employees.html
Demand for  Tata Consultancy Services
Ltd. (TCS) ’s outsourcing services is so robust the information-
technology company hired 70,000 workers last fiscal year and
plans to add 60,000 more this year.  Tata Consultancy projects annual sales, which have
quadrupled since 2005 to $8.4 billion, will increase 20 percent
a year for the “foreseeable future.” That has it and Indian
rivals  Infosys Technologies Ltd. (INFO)  and  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  hustling to find
hundreds of thousands of qualified candidates as global IT
purchases grow 7.1 percent this year to $1.7 trillion.  Tata Consultancy’s expertise at using low-cost IT workers
to replace more expensive labor in developed countries helped it
land contracts with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Hilton Worldwide Inc. and
Air Liquide SA last fiscal year. The company, Asia’s largest
computer-services provider by market value, reported record
annual income of $2 billion.  “As long as there’s growth, you don’t want to leave
business on the table,” said Ajoyendra Mukherjee, Tata
Consultancy’s vice president for human resources. “What we’re
trying to do is make sure the supply chain is large enough to
meet our growth requirements in the future.”  Microsoft, IBM Competition  Keeping the pipeline of talent filled is becoming more
important as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  open facilities in India, and the local banking, finance
and manufacturing industries hire their own computer engineers.
Attrition at Tata Consultancy, Infosys and Wipro accelerated to
its highest annual levels in the year ended March 31 as a post-
recession surge gave workers chances to change jobs for raises
of as much as 50 percent.  “The spike in attrition over the last four quarters is
essentially because of the pent-up demand,” said Rajan Kohli,
chief marketing officer at unit Wipro Technologies. “There
wasn’t enough of a bench to fulfill that demand. People ended up
hiring from each other.”  To stem the exodus, Mumbai-based Tata Consultancy will
offer raises of 12 percent to 14 percent, the highest in three
years, Mukherjee said April 21. Infosys is expected to boost
salaries for domestic workers by 10 percent to 12 percent this
fiscal year, Chief Operating Officer S. D. Shibulal said April
15.  The IT hiring spree is fueled by the expansion of  Asia ’s
third-largest economy, which the  International Monetary Fund 
said would grow by 8.2 percent this year after expanding 10.4
percent in the prior 12 months.  39 New Clients  The Bombay Stock Exchange Information Technology Index has
advanced 13 percent in the last 12 months, compared with a 4.6
percent increase in India’s benchmark Sensitive Index. Tata
Consultancy, the technology index’s best performer, advanced 52
percent in that period, while Infosys rose 3.3 percent.  Tata Consultancy fell 0.6 percent to 1,184.25 rupees at the
3:30 p.m. close of trading in Mumbai, compared with a 1 percent
drop in the Sensex.  India’s  $88.1 billion  IT services and outsourcing
industries were built by hiring cheap talent, mostly local, to
write computer programs and maintain software for foreign
companies looking to lower their own costs.  The industry now employs about 2.5 million people,
according to a Feb. 15 report by the National Association of
Software & Services Companies, or Nasscom, an industry lobby
group.  Tata Consultancy  had 198,614 workers on March 31, compared
with about 41,000 six years  earlier , according to annual
reports. Last quarter, it added 39 clients, including Air
Liquide, the world’s biggest producer of industrial gasses, and
Royal Haskoning, an engineering and environmental consulting
firm.  Deutsche Bank, Hilton  In the quarter ended Dec. 31, the company won orders from
Deutsche Bank and Hilton Worldwide. Deutsche Bank said it would
use Tata Consultancy’s banking-transaction platform in 30
countries. Hilton signed a multiyear deal to modernize its
software.  The global IT market will grow 7.1 percent this year and
8.7 percent next year, according to a January report by
Forrester Research Inc. in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . India faces
a shortage of 2 million qualified workers by 2020 because only
about 26 percent of the annual 600,000 engineering graduates are
considered immediately employable, according to Nasscom.  “The supply coming into the economy is great in terms of
quantity, but not great in terms of quality,” said Hitesh Oberoi, chief executive officer of Info Edge  India  Ltd., which
owns the Naukri.com  website  for jobseekers. “A lot of these
people have to be trained again from scratch.”  China  Expansions  That dearth of talent has spurred IT hiring in China, the
 Philippines  and Eastern Europe, said Jan Erik Aase, a principal
analyst at Forrester Research.  Infosys, India’s No. 2 software exporter, has 3,000 workers
in China and plans to double that within 18 months, Chief
Operating Officer Shibulal said in a May 1 interview. The
Bangalore-based company plans to spend $130 million on a new
Shanghai campus.  Tata Consultancy is opening offices in China and  Latin
America , and hiring locals to staff them, Mukherjee said.  “They’re not limiting themselves to India,” Aase said of
all the firms. “There’s too much competition. They have to have
other alternatives.”  To ensure a pipeline of domestic talent, companies are
molding college programs and spending millions of dollars on
training. Tata Consultancy dispatches teams to assess university
engineering programs and gives hiring priority to graduates of
the more than 500 schools it has accredited so far.  ‘There is a Limit’  Wipro, India’s third-largest software exporter, started a
program to improve the quality of engineering education at rural
colleges. That includes  videotaping  teachers in the classroom
and critiquing their methods, said Nagarjuna Sadineni, the
program’s general manager.  Bangalore-based Wipro also set up a four-year academy to
teach students from other disciplines, including business and
the arts, how to be software engineers, said Saurabh Govil,
senior vice president for human resources.  “The biggest challenge for the industry is going to be
talent,” Govil said. “It is not only for Wipro, but for the
larger good of the industry that we’re working on this one.”  New Facility  Infosys opened a training center in  Mysore  with 698 faculty
members and capacity for 14,000 new hires, according to its
annual report for the 2011 fiscal year. The company spends about
$180 million a year on training.  Tata Consultancy increased spending on recruitment and
training by 91 percent last year to $47 million and is expanding
in  Trivandrum , near India’s southern tip. Its Peepul Park center
can train thousands and plans are under way to build a facility
nearby to handle 10,000 new hires.  Even as the IT industry booms, companies say they recognize
the potential for hiring binges to hamper quality and
flexibility. Firms are talking more about finding revenue
streams that don’t depend on headcount, such as intellectual
property and cloud-computing platforms.  “There is a limit to the number of people you can
continuously keep on adding, making it a huge organization to
manage and deal with,” Mukherjee said. “This can’t be a long-
term kind of a model.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  