-- 
Mauritius Economic Growth Gaining Momentum, May Be More Than 4.6% in 2011

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-06-14T11:47:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/mauritius-growth-may-be-above-4-6-in-2011-central-bank-governor-says.html
Mauritius’s economy will probably
expand more than forecast this year as growth in tourism and
exports gains momentum, central bank Governor Rundheersing Bheenick said, adding to pressure for higher  interest rates .  “We have reason to believe that the country’s economic
growth will be above 4.6 percent,” Bheenick told reporters
today in Port Louis, the capital. There are “signs of
overheating” in the economy and the central bank may need to
continue the “process of normalizing rates,” he said.  The comments come a day after the Bank of Mauritius
increased its benchmark rate by a quarter of a percentage point
to 5.5 percent to curb inflation, which at 7.1 percent, is near
its highest level in more than two years. The economic recovery
is “taking hold,” it said in a statement on its website
yesterday. The rate increase was the second in the last two
quarterly policy meetings.  The central bank in March forecast the Indian Ocean island
nation’s economy will grow 4.6 percent in 2011. The  Central
Statistics Office  on March 31 raised its forecast to 4.5 percent
from 4.2 percent.  Tourist arrivals are expected to increase to more than 1
million compared with 934,827 visitors in 2010 and export
receipts rose to the highest level in more than five years in
the first quarter, Bheenick said.  “Exports are more than buoyant,” he said. “The order
books are full.”  Inflation to Slow  Credit to the private sector jumped 11 percent in March
compared with a year earlier, First Deputy Governor Yandraduth Googoolye said.  Inflation will probably slow to 5.1 percent by year-end,
Bheenick said. Inflation accelerated to 7.2 percent in March,
the highest rate in more than two years, from 2.5 percent in
September, according to the statistics office.  Mauritius earns most of its foreign currency from tourism,
and exports of sugar, clothing and textiles. About two thirds of
tourists to the island are from  Europe , the statistics office
said on May 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port Louis  at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  