-- 
Australia Says Coal Mines May Close Under Carbon Plan

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-06-14T08:36:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/australian-coal-mines-may-close-under-carbon-emissions-plan-minister-says.html
Some coal mines in  Australia , the
world’s biggest exporter of the fuel, may close under the
government’s plan to charge polluters for  carbon emissions ,
Resources and Energy Minister Martin Ferguson said.  The government is negotiating with industry about how to
treat mines that will be affected by the plan, Ferguson said.
The Australian Coal Association says the plan may force the
closure of 18 mines in the next decade.  “No one can rule out a mine or two closing,” Ferguson
told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio today. “But there’s
huge expansions going on in the coal  mining industry  at the
moment that are going to create record commodity opportunities
and record profits for Australia.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s proposed emissions trading
system is due to start July 1, 2012, with a fixed price for the
first three to five years before full trading begins. Her  Labor
Party  wants to cut carbon pollution by 5 percent in the decade
to 2020.  “We can’t afford to be left behind while the rest of the
world moves,” Gillard told reporters in Canberra today. “We
are in discussions with coal on how we can best work with coal
on carbon pricing.”  The government, whose popularity has fallen in opinion
polls ahead of an election due in late 2013, is trying to
address voter concern over the plan that’s aimed at cutting
pollution to protect natural icons including the Great Barrier
Reef and Kakadu National Park. The opposition Liberal-National
coalition says the plan will increase living costs.  Top Polluter  Australia is one of the world’s top 20 polluters and the
developed world’s biggest emitter, Gillard said as she released
two fact sheets to outline why there needed to be a climate
plan.  “The company will not grow as fast,”  Fortescue Metals
Group Ltd. (FMG)  Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Forrest  told reporters
in Canberra when asked about impacts of the carbon plan.
“Therefore we won’t be able to employ the same number of
people.”  Meanwhile, the level of the government’s separate planned
30 percent tax on coal and iron ore mining profits won’t change,
Ferguson said. Gillard in July watered down predecessor  Kevin
Rudd ’s 40 percent levy on all resources.  “Companies will only pay this tax when they make super
profits in very good times,” Ferguson said. “We’ve designed a
tax with the mining industry that suits Australia at large.”  The tax, forecast to raise A$7.7 billion ($8.2 billion) in
its first two years, will be used to lower the corporate  tax
rate  to 29 percent from 30 percent, encourage retirement savings
and pay for roads and railways. A 40 percent petroleum resource
rent tax will be extended to offshore projects, according to a
report on the Treasury website on June 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  