-- 
Australia Business Confidence Dropped in May on Record Currency

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-06-14T01:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/australia-business-confidence-dropped-in-may-on-record-currency.html
Australian business confidence
declined in May for a third straight month as the currency’s
climb to a record weighed on industries including manufacturing,
a private report showed.  The confidence index dropped to 6 from 7 in April,
according to a  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  survey of more than
500 companies from May 23 to May 30 that was released in Sydney
today. The business conditions gauge, a measure of hiring, sales
and profits, slid to 1 from 5, today’s report showed.  The Australian dollar reached $1.1012 on May 2, the
strongest level since it was freely floated in 1983, as a mining
boom drove unemployment below 5 percent. The currency’s strength
has hurt non-resource industries, with manufacturing contracting
in May for the eighth time in nine months.  Manufacturing “continues to report the weakest confidence
levels of all industries, suggesting the high Australian dollar
is continuing to weigh on sentiment,” NAB chief economist  Alan Oster  said in a statement. He said the Australian economy’s
“near-term outlook is softer” after natural disasters at home
and abroad and as higher oil prices slow global growth.  Gross domestic product contracted 1.2 percent in the first
quarter, the most since 1991, as floods in the northeast slashed
coal exports, a June 1 government report showed.  Reconstruction from disasters in Queensland, increased coal
exports and mining investment are likely to spur the economy in
the second half of the year, Oster said. He predicts the  Reserve
Bank  of  Australia  will raise  interest rates  by a quarter
percentage point to 5 percent at its August meeting.  The RBA’s overnight cash rate target has stayed at 4.75
percent since November, compared with near-zero rates in Japan
and the U.S.  Confidence was dented earlier this year after floods in
Queensland state in December and January affected about 30,000
properties, shut coal mines, cut rail lines and damaged crops.
The state’s north was then hit by a cyclone in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  