-- 
Australian Dollar Weakens as Deadlock on Aid for Greece Damps Risk Demand

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-06-15T16:20:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/australian-new-zealand-dollars-hold-gains-on-bets-asian-stocks-will-rise.html
The Australian dollar fell versus
its U.S. counterpart, erasing earlier gains, as the failure of
European Union officials to end a deadlock on a second bailout
for  Greece  damped demand for higher-yielding assets.  The South Pacific currency earlier rose after  Reserve Bank 
of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens said policy makers will need
to raise  interest rates  at some stage.  New Zealand ’s dollar
weakened against most major peers as stocks and raw materials
tumbled after Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  was told by
the opposition to resign.  “The Aussie is more and more dependent on risk appetite
than domestic fundamentals,” said  Jessica Hoversen , a New York-
based analyst at the futures broker MF Global Holdings Ltd.
“The comments from Stevens were hawkish, but he is probably
signaling for a rate hike after July because he wants to see
what second-quarter CPI says.”  Australia ’s dollar dropped 0.9 percent to $1.0588 at 12:18
p.m. in New York, from $1.0685 yesterday, after rising earlier
as much as 0.3 percent. The currency depreciated 0.6 percent to
85.46 yen, from 86 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar fell 1.2 percent to 80.83 U.S. cents
and touched 80.81 cents, the weakest level since June 3. It
declined 0.9 percent to 65.24 yen.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.1 percent and the
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of commodities fell 0.9
percent.  Stevens also said the underlying rate of inflation “is
more likely to rise than fall” in the next few years.  Price Data  “New information will, as always, be important in our
monthly assessments of what monetary policy needs to do,”
Stevens said in a speech in Brisbane. “As far as prices are
concerned, we will get another comprehensive round of data in
late July.” Data on the  consumer price index  is due July 26.  Stevens has kept the cash-rate target at 4.75 percent for
the past six meetings, the longest pause since 2007. The central
bank will boost its benchmark rate by 14 basis points, or 0.14
percentage point, over the next 12 months, according to a Credit
Suisse AG index, up from 10 basis points yesterday.  European finance ministers agreed yesterday to reconvene on
June 19 after failing to reconcile a German-led push for
bondholders to share part of the cost of a new Greek aid plan.  Papandreou was told to step aside and let the nation’s
president name a so-called technical government to renegotiate
the terms of the nation’s rescue package, said an official in
the opposition New Democracy Party.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  