-- 
Avis Europe Agrees to $1.04 Billion Cash Acquisition Offer by Avis Budget

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-06-14T20:30:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/avis-budget-agrees-to-purchase-avis-europe-to-expand-reach-1-.html
Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR)  agreed to pay
636 million pounds ($1.04 billion) for  Avis Europe Plc (AVE) , the
second-biggest car-rental company on the continent, possibly
taking Avis Budget out of the bidding for  Dollar Thrifty
Automotive Group Inc. (DTG)   Avis Budget will pay 315 pence a share for the European
company, which is majority owned by Belgian auto dealer
 D’Ieteren SA (DIE) , the two companies said in a statement. The price
is 60 percent higher than yesterday’s close of 196.6 pence.  The combination will give Parsippany, New Jersey-based Avis
Budget control of the London-based company’s 3,100 Avis outlets
and 950 Budget locations. Avis Europe operates in 112 countries
in Europe, Africa, the  Middle East  and Asia. The acquisition
comes as Avis Budget bids against  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  for
Dollar Thrifty, the third-biggest U.S. car-rental company.  “Avis Budget is offering a considerable premium, but
that’s still less than Dollar Thrifty,” said  Marc-Rene Tonn , a
Hamburg-based analyst with M.M. Warburg. The deal values Avis
Europe at about 13 times estimated earnings per share, compared
with about 17 times for the Dollar Thrifty offer, Tonn said.  Avis Europe, which licenses the Avis brand from the U.S.
rental-car chain, rose 114.1 pence, or 58 percent, to 310.7
pence today in London trading. The stock has gained 31 percent
this year, valuing the company at 608 million pounds.  Competing Bids  Avis Budget and Hertz, the two largest publicly traded U.S.
rental-car chains, have been bidding for Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
Dollar Thrifty since April 2010. Dollar Thrifty recommended on
June 6 that investors not accept Hertz’s latest bid because it
undervalues the company. Hertz’s cash-and-stock offer, which was
$2.24 billion, or $72 a share, when it was announced May 9, is
valued at $2.05 billion, or $70.76 a share.  Ron Nelson,  Avis Budget ’s chief executive officer, declined
to answer questions about Avis’s interest in Dollar Thrifty from
analysts on a conference call today, other than to say the
company will monitor the situation. In October, Avis offered
what is now valued $1.65 billion, or $57.02 a share, for Dollar
Thrifty and the two companies have been waiting for a U.S.
antitrust review.  Dollar Thrifty fell $7.44, or 9.3 percent, to $72.43 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the
biggest daily drop since October 2009. Hertz, based in Park
Ridge, New Jersey, rose $1.28, or 9.1 percent, to $15.40, the
most since July. Avis gained $1.21, or 7.6 percent, to $17.17,
the largest increase since November.  ‘Consolidating Worldwide’  Avis  Europe  Chief Executive Officer Pascal Bazin said in a
telephone interview that “this is an industry which is
consolidating worldwide. Actors will be less and less and bigger
and stronger.”  Avis Budget said it will pay for the acquisition with
available cash and the potential sale of as much as $250 million
in new shares and debt. The combination would create a rental-
car company with annual sales of about $7 billion.  D’Ieteren, which owns about 60 percent of Avis Europe, has
accepted the offer.  The purchase, which requires approval of 75 percent of Avis
Europe investors by value, is expected to close in October, Avis
Budget said. The company anticipates $30 million a year in
synergies.  “The transaction re-unites the global operation of the
Avis and Budget brands under one corporate umbrella, and is both
financially and strategically compelling,” Nelson said. Avis
Budget said it expects that the transaction will add to earnings
per share, excluding acquisition-related charges.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are advising Avis Budget,
while  Barclays Capital  advised Avis Europe. Avis Budget said
it’s not expecting antitrust obstacles because of a lack of
overlapping operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at at  cthomas16@bloomberg.net  