-- 
Banco de Chile, Brasil Foods, Telmex, Vale: Latin America Equity Preview

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-06-14T06:52:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/banco-de-chile-brasil-foods-telmex-vale-latin-america-equity-preview.html
The following companies may have
unusual price changes in Latin American trading. Stock symbols
are in parentheses and share prices reflect the previous close.  The MSCI Latin America Index slid 0.5 percent to 4,303.69.  Brazil   BRF - Brasil Foods SA (BRFS3)  (BRFS3 BS): The world’s largest
poultry exporter asked Brazil’s antitrust regulator, CADE, for
more time to negotiate a deal over the purchase of Sadia SA,
which formed the company, Wilson Mello, vice president of
institutional relations, said in Brasilia. The shares sank 4.6
percent to 24.09 reais.  Lojas Renner SA (LREN3 BS): The clothing retailer approved
the sale of 300 million reais ($189 million) in local bonds,
according to a regulatory filing. The shares retreated 1.2
percent to 59 reais.  Vale SA (VALE5 BS): Vale’s controlling shareholders are
seeking to increase their role in the management of the world’s
biggest iron-ore producer after replacing the chief executive
officer last month, said Funcef President Carlos Alberto Caser
in an interview yesterday in Brasilia. Funcef is one of four
pension unds that share control of Vale with other investors.
The shares decreased 1.5 percent to 43.40 reais.  Chile  Banco de Chile (CHILE CC): The country’s second-largest
lender had net income of 202 billion pesos ($432 million) in the
first five months of the year, according to a statement
published on its website. The statement didn’t give year-ago
results. Banco de Chile fell 1.3 percent to 67.06 pesos.  Colombia   Bolsa de Valores de Colombia (BVC)  SA: The operator of
the country’s principal stock exchange and Bolsa de Valores de
Lima SA said they will delay their merger until they present
details to  Peru ’s new government. BVC, as the company is known,
slipped 0.7 percent to 43 pesos.  Grupo de Inversiones Suramericana (GRUPOSUR CB): Colombia’s
largest holding company will vote on whether to issue stock and
convert some existing ordinary shares into stock with
preferential dividend payments at a shareholder meeting June 20,
according to a regulatory filing. The stock dropped 7.2 percent
to 38,920 pesos.  Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE)  : The Toronto-based
oil producer that operates fields in Colombia announced it will
pay $25 million in dividends at $0.093 per share and will seek
shareholder approval to pay dividends quarterly. The company
will pay the dividends on June 30 to shareholders registered as
of June 17, according to a regulatory filing. The stock dropped
2.5 percent to 46,860 pesos.  Mexico  America Movil  SAB (AMXL MM): The company’s Mexican wireless
unit will slash the network-connection fees it charges Telefonos
de Mexico SAB (TELMEXL MM) by more than half, matching the rate
cuts set by government officials in disputes with other
carriers. America Movil, the wireless carrier controlled by
billionaire  Carlos Slim , gained 1.4 percent to 29.07 pesos.
Shares of Telmex, as Mexico’s largest land-line phone carrier is
known, slid 0.8 percent to 9.80 pesos.  Grupo Mexico SAB (GMEXICOB MM): The country’s biggest
mining company sought to take control of Grupo Aeroportuario del
Pacifico SAB (GAPB MM), in a deal that values the airport
operator at as much as $2 billion. Grupo Mexico will offer as
much as 50 pesos for each share of the Guadalajara, Mexico-based
company, it said yesterday in a stock exchange filing. Grupo
 Mexico  shares added 0.3 percent to 38.37 pesos. Aeroportuario
del Pacifico rallied 1.1 percent to 47.31 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 dpapadopoulos@bloomberg.net  