-- 
Bank Stock ‘Catch-Up’ Foretold in Loan Demand: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-06-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/bank-stock-catch-up-foretold-in-loan-demand-chart-of-the-day.html
U.S. bank stocks are due for a
rebound because the combination of rising business-loan demand
and a less-indebted consumer bodes well for lenders, according
to Christopher Mutascio, a Stifel Financial Corp. analyst.  The CHART OF THE DAY compares balances on commercial and
industrial loans and home equity lines of credit at the largest
U.S. banks, as Mutascio did in a June 9 report. The data are
compiled by the  Federal Reserve  and aren’t seasonally adjusted.  “It points to an environment that is at least somewhat
better than currently perceived” for banks, he wrote, adding
that their shares are poised “for a bit of catch-up -- even if
just on a relative basis.”  Bank stocks are the second-worst performers this year out
of 24 industry groups in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which
was 1.1 percent higher as of yesterday. The S&P 500 Banks Index
dropped 11 percent. Only auto and auto-parts makers fared worse,
as their S&P 500 industry index has fallen 14 percent in 2011.  Business demand for credit is growing as consumers bolster
their finances by paying down debt, Mutascio wrote. The pattern
“feels and looks vastly different from where we were during the
financial crisis” of 2007-2009, when companies cut borrowing as
households took on more home-equity debt to stay afloat.  Mutascio has “buy” ratings on  PNC Financial Services
Group Inc. (PNC) , U.S. Bancorp and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Bloomberg’s data
show. He singled out Wells Fargo in the report as a stock that’s
poised to rise, based on his view that the share price implies
the company won’t have any mortgage-banking revenue this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  