-- 
Bank of Ireland Becomes a ‘Slave’ to Sovereign Debt Woe

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-06-15T11:52:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/bank-of-ireland-becomes-slave-to-country-s-sovereign-debt-woe.html
As Ireland goes, so goes Bank of
Ireland Plc, the nation’s largest and oldest lender.  As investors meet today for the 228-year-old bank’s annual
general meeting, the company’s market value has shrunk to about
694 million euros ($1 billion), less than a 25th of its peak
four years ago. If the lender succeeds in raising some of 5.2
billion euros of additional capital demanded by regulators from
investors, it will be the only Irish bank to raise money from
money managers since the government guaranteed the industry’s
debt in 2008. Failure would put the last of the country’s six
top lenders under state control.  “If the bank comes up with a credible investment case,
investors will see it as a proxy for Ireland,” said Frank O’Dwyer, chief executive officer of the  Irish Association of
Investment Managers , whose members oversee 250 billion euros.
“It will be a big beneficiary from a recovery in the economy.”  The fundraising will be the first litmus test of investors’
confidence in the country’s economy since Enda Kenny became
prime minister three months ago. Following last year’s 85
billion-euro bailout, Ireland doesn’t have to sell bonds until
2013. The lender’s shareholders will need to decide if the
government can avoid a default or a restructuring before then.  “Bank of Ireland is now a slave to the sovereign’s
fortunes,” said Cathal O’Leary, head of fixed-income sales at
NCB Stockbrokers in Dublin. “Investors either want to play
Ireland’s recovery or they don’t. If they do, then this bank is
the best and most leveraged way to do it.”  Royal Charter  Founded  in 1783 by Royal charter, the Governor & Company of
the Bank of Ireland became the  official banker  to the Irish Free
State on independence from Britain in 1922. The Dublin-based
bank has about a fifth of the home-loan market, a third of
business and checking  accounts  and a similar share of the
credit-card market. The lender’s 254 branches in the country
rank second only to  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) ’s 268 outlets.  Bank of Ireland’s market value and loan book have surpassed
 Allied Irish  since the housing bubble burst in 2008. Allied
Irish is now 93 percent state-owned after receiving 7.2 billion
euros of bailouts over the past two years. The government owns
36 percent of Bank of Ireland after injecting 3.5 billion euros.  The lender may post a 1 billion-euro pretax loss this year,
according to the median of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “My only concern is to get this ship off the rocks,” Bank
of Ireland Chairman Pat Molloy said at the shareholder meeting
today. Outflows of deposits have stabilized since late 2010, and
there are indications the economy is stabilizing, said Molloy,
who had to dodge an egg hurled during the meeting in Dublin.  ‘Economic Apocalypse’  The economy may expand by 0.75 percent this year after a 15
percent contraction over the past three years, the government
said in April. Growth may accelerate to 2.5 percent in 2012,
according to the government.  Consumer confidence  rose in May, gaining for a fourth month
in five, on increasing optimism unemployment has peaked and as
concern about “an economic apocalypse” fades, KBC Bank Ireland
Plc and the Dublin-based  Economic & Social Research Institute ,
an economic research group, said on June 8.  “There’s no way that we can look back on this investment
and say that it was a success,” said Robert Taylor, director of
international research and portfolio manager at Chicago-based
Harris Associates LP, Bank of Ireland’s largest institutional
shareholder, with a 5.8 percent stake. “But the one thing we
got right was that this is the bank to invest in if you look at
the management team and long-term value prospects.”  Fundraising Plans  Investors will today discuss Bank of Ireland’s plan to
raise 5.2 billion euros to bolster capital. The lender is
seeking to  raise  at least 2.1 billion euros by swapping
subordinated bonds for as little as 10 percent of their face
value for cash or stock. The bank will then raise as much as 2.2
billion euros in a separate share sale next month.  Depending on how many existing shareholders buy new stock
in the share sale and on how many bonds are exchanged, the
government, which is underwriting the fundraising, may own
between 27 percent and 88 percent of the lender, Bank of Ireland
said on June 8. The bank also said that day it was in “active
discussions with other sources of private capital.”  Most junior bondholders are likely to convert their debt to
equity because the terms of the swap are more generous than
those of the debt-for-cash offer, according to  Jim Ryan , a
director at Glas Securities, a Dublin-based fixed-income firm.
Holders of Bank of Ireland’s Tier 2 bonds are being offered 20
percent of par value in cash or 40 percent in stock.  “The bank will still need to encourage significant private
participation in the forthcoming rights issue if it is to avoid
majority state control,” he said. “This is not so easy to
predict,” he said.  Bond Yields  The lender is raising money as the cost of insuring Irish
government and bank bonds against the risk of default has jumped
amid the European debt crisis. Credit-default swaps on Ireland
surged 192 basis points over the past two months to 738 basis
points today. CDSs show the probability of an Irish default
within five years is 46 percent, according to CMA prices. Irish
10-year government bond yields have almost doubled over the past
year and touched a euro-era record of 11.479 percent today.  “How can anyone buy a share in a bank as inextricably
linked to the sovereign as Bank of Ireland without taking a view
on the country re-profiling its debt -- which I think is
inevitable,” said  Stephen Kinsella , a lecturer in economics at
the University of Limerick. At “the very least” Ireland will
need to secure a deal in 2013 to repay its debts over a longer
period, he said.  Greek Restructuring  If  Greece  restructures its debt, the odds of Ireland
following would narrow significantly, according to Brian Devine,
chief economist at Dublin-based NCB Stockbrokers.  Bank of Ireland had 3.8 billion euros of Irish  government
bonds  held as assets for sale at the end of December as well as
5.1 billion euros of government-guaranteed bonds it received as
payment for risky real-estate loans the state acquired last
year, according to its latest  annual report . The bank held more
than 600 million euros of bonds issued by other governments at
the end of December.  A restructuring of Ireland’s debt would force the bank to
write down its holdings of sovereign bonds, eroding the capital
the bank has been ordered to raise. Bank of Ireland would have
to raise additional capital if its core Tier 1 capital ratio, a
gauge of financial strength, fell below the Irish central bank’s
10.5 percent target. The planned fundraising would boost that
capital ratio to about 15 percent, according to Bank of Ireland.  Even if Bank of Ireland falls into state control in July,
the fact it has proportionately less capital to raise than other
Irish banks “puts it in a relatively better position, all else
being equal, to be the first to extricate itself from state
involvement at some stage in the future,” said  Eamonn Hughes ,
head of research at Dublin-based  Goodbody Stockbrokers .  “At that stage, Ireland Inc. and probably the entire
banking system has to be in the right shape,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  