-- 
BayWa, Demag Cranes, Krones, Commerzbank: German Equity Preview

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-06-15T06:36:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/baywa-demag-cranes-krones-commerzbank-german-equity-market.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in  Germany . Stock
symbols are in parentheses and share prices are from the
previous close.  DAX Index futures expiring in June slipped 0.3 percent to
7,182.5 at 8:36 a.m. in  Frankfurt . The benchmark DAX Index rose
1.7 percent to 7,204.79 yesterday.  Adidas AG (ADS)  : The world’s second-largest sporting-
goods maker was raised to “overweight” from “neutral” at
HSBC Holdings Plc. The shares climbed 1.2 percent to 50.51
euros.  BayWa AG (BYW)  (BYW6 GY): The German farm products and building-
materials company wants to raise sales at its renewable-energy
unit to 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) in the “mid-term” from
300 million euros currently, Handelsblatt reported, citing Chief
Executive Officer Klaus Josef Lutz. The shares added 0.7 percent
to 28.86 euros.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  : Germany’s second-largest bank
plans to sell almost 75 percent of  RWE AG (RWE) ’s Amprion
German power grid unit to investors such as insurance companies
through a closed fund structure, Dow Jones said, citing
unidentified people familiar with the matter. Commerzbank’s
shares increased 1.6 percent to 3.10 euros, while RWE, the
country’s second-largest utility, gained 1.8 percent to 38.86
euros.  EON AG (EOAN GY): Germany’s biggest utility was raised to
“hold” from “sell” at Citigroup Inc. The shares rose 1.6
percent to 19.43 euros.  Fraport AG (FRA GY): The operator of Frankfurt airport was
raised to “buy” from “hold” at  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)  The shares
increased 0.5 percent to 54.14 euros.  Krones AG (KRN)  : The world’s biggest maker of bottling
and packaging equipment plans for management board member
Christoph Klenk to replace Hans-Juergen Thaus as chief financial
officer after he steps down for age reasons on Dec. 31. The
stock rose 2.2 percent to 54 euros.  Demag Cranes AG (D9C)  (D9C GY): Cevian Capital AB won’t sell its
shares in the German crane maker to Terex Corp. unless the two
companies agree, Financial Times Deutschland said, citing an
interview with Cevian co-founder Lars Forberg. Demag’s
management wants a higher purchase price than Terex offered and
limitations on control rights, should the U.S. company acquire a
majority, while Terex can’t accept those terms, FT Deutschland
reported, without attribution. Demag slipped 0.2 percent to
44.58 euros.  Qiagen NV (QGEN)  : The Dutch maker of disease-predicting
tests said it started exclusive negotiations to buy 47 percent
of Ipsogen SA before fully acquiring the specialist in blood
cancer molecular diagnostics. Qiagen plans to expand its
profiling and personalized health-care portfolios through the
acquisition, the company said in an e-mailed statement today.
The shares advanced 1.7 percent to 13.64 euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  