-- 
Bernanke Calls Debt Limit ‘Wrong Tool’ for Forcing Budget Cuts

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-06-14T19:43:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/bernanke-calls-u-s-debt-limit-wrong-tool-for-forcing-budget-reductions.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. debt ceiling shouldn’t be used as a
bargaining chip to force budget cuts, and failing to raise it
could cause “severe disruptions” in financial markets.  Using the debt limit deadline to force some “necessary and
difficult fiscal-policy adjustments” is “the wrong tool for
that important job,” he said. “We should avoid unnecessary
actions or threats that risk shaking the confidence of investors
in the ability and willingness of the U.S. government to pay its
bills,” Bernanke said today in the text of remarks in
Washington.  Lawmakers are wrangling over spending cuts and budget
reforms as they seek an agreement to increase the $14.3 trillion
debt limit before Aug. 2, the date on which the Treasury
Department said it will have exhausted all its borrowing
authority. Moody’s Investors Service on June 2 said that it
expects to place the U.S. government’s top credit rating under
review for a possible downgrade if there’s no progress on
increasing the debt limit by mid-July.  “I urge the Congress and the Administration to work in
good faith to quickly develop and implement a credible plan to
achieve long-term sustainability,” Bernanke said. “I hope,
though, that such a plan can be achieved in the near term
without resorting to brinkmanship or actions that would cast
doubt on the creditworthiness of the  United States .”  Retail Sales Report  Treasuries fell today after a report showing retail sales
declined less than forecast last month. Yields on the 10-year
Treasury notes climbed 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point,
to 3.09 percent at 3:38 p.m. in New York, according to BGCantor
Market Data prices. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.3
percent to 1,288.24.  Bernanke said suggestions that Treasury payments could be
“prioritized” to avoid a default wouldn’t work because,
“while debt-related payments might be met in this scenario, the
fact that many other government payments would be delayed could
still create serious concerns about the safety of  Treasury
securities .”  Republican lawmakers, including Pennsylvania Senator  Pat Toomey , Senator  Jim DeMint  of  South Carolina  and Representative
Joe Walsh of  Illinois , have scoffed at warnings that failing to
raise the U.S. debt limit would trigger a financial catastrophe.
Obligations to bondholders can be met with the  tax revenue  that
will continue to pour into the Treasury, and the government’s
other bills can be delayed or cut without panicking financial
markets, the Republicans say.  Long-Term Growth  Bernanke reiterated his view that lawmakers should rein in
budget deficits to ensure long-term growth without cutting back
so quickly as to choke off the recovery at a time when the
economy is still fragile. A recent stretch of disappointing
economic data, including a rise in the  unemployment rate  to 9.1
percent in May, have increased the odds the Fed will keep its
benchmark interest rate near zero into next year.  “Acting now to put in place a credible plan for reducing
future deficits would not only enhance economic performance in
the long run, but could also yield near-term benefits by leading
to lower long-term  interest rates  and increased consumer and
business confidence,” Bernanke said at the Committee for a
Responsible Federal Budget annual conference.  An advantage of taking a longer-term plan for debt
reduction is that policy makers “can avoid a sudden fiscal
contraction that might put the still-fragile recovery at risk.”  Budget Forecasts  The annual budget shortfall is projected to reach $1.4
trillion, matching the previous record in fiscal 2009, according
to the non-partisan  Congressional Budget Office . In the fiscal
year 2010 ended last Sept. 30, the annual  budget deficit  totaled
$1.3 trillion, the second largest.  “History makes clear that failure to put our fiscal house
in order will erode the vitality of our economy, reduce the
standard of living in the United States, and increase the risk
of economic and financial instability,” Bernanke said.  For all the concern about the deficit in  Washington , bond
yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the government was
running a  budget surplus  a decade ago. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note is below the average of 7
percent since 1980 and the average of 5.48 percent in the 1998
through 2001 period, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader.  Signs of economic weakness have added to the pressure for
lawmakers to reach an accord over the budget, with Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner warning that a failure to do so
would have catastrophic consequences for the  U.S. economy  and
choke off access to credit markets.  Hiring Slows  Payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight months in May,
Labor Department figures released on June 3 showed.
Manufacturing grew at its slowest pace in more than a year in
May, according to Institute for Supply Management data, and
 consumer spending  rose less than forecast in April as households
felt the pinch of grocery and energy costs, a Commerce
Department report showed.  The Federal Open Market Committee plans this month to
finish a $600 billion bond purchase program, and the minutes of
their April meeting showed central bankers have been discussing
the tools they’d use to remove their record stimulus.  Bernanke said last week that “accommodative monetary
policies are still needed” to boost a “frustratingly slow”
recovery. He said growth is likely to pick up in the second half
of the year as fuel prices recede and disruptions of parts
supplies dissipate as factories in  Japan  recover from an
earthquake and tsunami.  Honda Motor Co., Japan’s third-largest carmaker, said May
27 that its North America and China vehicle production will
return to normal in August as parts suppliers recover from
Japan’s earthquake. In the U.S., only production of Honda’s
Civic cars will continue to be slowed by limited supplies of
some parts, the Tokyo-based company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  