-- 
Best Buy’s Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates After Smartphone Sales Increase

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-06-14T20:11:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/best-buy-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-higher-sales-of-smartphones.html
Best Buy Co., the world’s largest
consumer electronics retailer, reported first-quarter profit
that exceeded analysts’ forecasts, helped by rising demand for
smartphones.  Net income fell 12 percent to $136 million, or 35 cents a
share, in the quarter ended May 28, the Richfield, Minnesota-
based company said today in a statement. Analysts predicted 33
cents, the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The shares
climbed the most in nine months.  Increasing demand for mobile phones and tablets countered
declining revenue from televisions. As competition intensified
from Amazon.com Inc. and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , Chief Executive
Officer Brian Dunn began reorganizing stores and retraining
employees last year to push sales of gadgets that work together.  “There’s substantial strength there,”  David Schick , an
analyst at Stifel Nicholas & Co. in Baltimore, said today in a
telephone interview. He recommends buying the shares. “All of
last year the business got worse than it had in the prior
quarter, and it’s showing reversal of that.”  Best Buy rose $1.31, or 4.6 percent, to $30.13 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
percentage gain since Sept. 14, 2010. The shares have declined
12 percent this year.  Domestic Sales  Sales by stores open at least 14 months fell 1.7 percent,
including a drop of 2.4 percent in the U.S. Analysts projected a
domestic decline of 4 percent, the median of five estimates by
International Strategy & Investment Group, Janney Capital
Markets, Caris & Co., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and  RBC
Capital Markets .  Revenue increased 1.4 percent to $10.9 billion. Analysts
estimated $10.7 billion.  As part of the stores’ reorganization, floor walkers were
retrained to show shoppers how gadgets work together -- a
concept Dunn calls the “connected store.”  The connected store represented a midcourse correction for
Dunn, whose previous strategy involved loading up stores with
exclusive products, including an electric bike. Best Buy has
since lost customers to Apple Inc., Amazon.com,  Wal-Mart Stores 
and Costco Wholesale Corp., according to analysts.  U.S. connection revenue, which comes from mobile phone
contracts and wireless broadband for phones, rose 20 percent in
the first quarter.  Best Buy reiterated its full-year projection for earnings
per share of $3.30 to $3.55, excluding restructuring costs.
Analysts predicted $3.47. The retailer earned $3.43 last year.  Net income was $155 million, or 36 cents a share, in the
year-earlier quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at  rajello@bloomberg.net  