-- 
BGC Begins U.K. Trial Against Tullett Over Broker Defection

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-14T16:13:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/bgc-begins-u-k-trial-against-tullett-over-broker-defection-1-.html
BGC Partners Inc. (BGCP) , a New York
brokerage that matches trades between banks, told a U.K. judge
that competitor  Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR)  wrongfully encouraged a
“disaffected” broker to defect.  Peter Rees, hired in 2007 to manage BGC’s Swiss Franc desk,
was persuaded to move to Tullett half-way through his four-year
contract, lawyers for the U.S. inter-dealer company said today
at the start of a 10-day trial in London. Rees said he quit
after BGC blamed him for failing to secure business from  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and cut his salary by more than half.  “This industry is about contracts,” BGC’s lawyer,
Jonathan Cohen, said. “The life-blood of this industry is the
brokers -- that’s why they take home so much” of the revenue
they generate.  The trial comes a year after London-based Tullett won
another U.K. lawsuit accusing BGC of using tens of millions of
pounds of inducements to poach 10 of its traders -- a ruling
that was upheld on appeal and prompted BGC to reach a private
financial settlement in April. In the U.S., Tullett in August
sued BGC in New York state court over claims it plotted to hire
away 77 staffers.  BGC claims that as the previous trial unfolded in  London ,
Tullett was already in the process of offering Rees a job in the
U.K., where he wanted to relocate. BGC is seeking damages from
lost business and repayment of a 250,000-pound ($410,000),
interest-free loan to Rees.  ‘Vulnerable’ Broker  “Tullett identified Rees as a disaffected broker who was
vulnerable to a recruitment approach,” BGC said in court papers
outlining its case. Rees quit in 2009 after his salary of
228,000 pounds ($374,000) was reduced to about 105,000 pounds
due to poor performance, according to the filing.  Tullett claims Rees’s desk couldn’t have performed well
without UBS’s business, and that BGC’s internal head-hunter had
promised him the brokerage would secure a “direct line”
between his trading desk and the Zurich-based bank.  While BGC was “rightly concerned” about Rees’s low
revenue without UBS, it breached his contract by failing to take
the head-hunter’s guarantee into account when it reduced his
salary, Tullett claims.  The reduction should have been “slightly less Draconian,”
said Mohinderpal Sethi, Tullett’s lawyer. “It’s an exaggeration
to say the desk could succeed without UBS. BGC seeks to downplay
the importance of the line because of the promise it had made.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 