-- 
Billionaire Lebedev’s London Evening Standard Cuts Loss on Reduced Costs

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-06-14T07:49:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/billionaire-lebedev-s-london-evening-standard-cuts-loss-by-half.html
Russian billionaire  Alexander Lebedev ’s  London   Evening Standard  will report this month it cut
full-year losses by half, said Managing Director Andrew Mullins.
The newspaper also predicts a profit in 2012.  The free daily, which targets 3.2 million London commuters,
will lose less than 20 million pounds ($33 million) for the year
ended September 2010, thanks in part to reduced marketing,
distribution and editorial costs, Mullins said in an interview
yesterday. That loss will be cut by another half this fiscal
year, he said.  Lebedev, an ex-KGB officer whose fortune was estimated at
$2.1 billion in April by Forbes magazine, bought the Standard in
2009 from Daily Mail and General Trust Plc and turned it into a
free afternoon title.  Daily Mail  retained a 24.9 percent stake.
Circulation has since increased fivefold to more than 700,000
copies and advertising has risen 140 percent, Mullins said.  The Standard must now exploit ad spending before next
year’s Olympics and figure out how to reach readers outside
London, perhaps through a paid digital application, Mullins
said. The Standard targets “working Londoners” who are
upmarket, educated and have 30 minutes to 1 hour to fill while
commuting home, Mullins said. The biggest advertising segment is
entertainment, followed by retail and travel.  A year after buying the Standard, Lebedev bought a second
U.K. title, the Independent newspaper. Last October he launched
a morning abbreviated version of that title called “i,” priced
at 20 pence, which had a circulation of about 167,000 copies a
day in May, according to the ABC National Newspapers report.  Online Plans  Lebedev said in September he was continuing to bankroll the
as-yet unprofitable Standard and Independent newspapers.  Mullins said he’s seeking to boost readership of i through
“good old-fashioned marketing.” There are no plans to merge
the Independent with i, even as circulation at the former
continues to decline. The Independent’s circulation dropped 7.8
percent in May from a year earlier to 179,371,  The Independent, which is priced at 1 pound, will probably
adopt a paywall for its online version, and benefit from a
digital application, Mullins said.  He favors a so-called metered paywall system whereby a
certain number of articles can be accessed for free on a news
site before a user must pay. Such models are in place at the
Financial Times and New York Times.  “There is a massive audience out there that comes to your
brand online, mainly through  Google search ,” Mullins said.
Cutting off Google or other sites from listing a title’s stories
would stunt “long-term growth and potential,” he said.  Lebedev said in May he was quitting business in  Russia  to
join Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s political movement.
Lebedev, a former KGB officer, said he’d come under increasing
pressure from Russian security services after accusing senior
officials in the Federal Security Service of laundering money.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  