-- 
U.S. Mission in Libya Will Violate War Powers Law on June 19, Boehner Says

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-15T17:46:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/boehner-says-libya-operation-violates-war-powers-law-on-june-19.html
Expressing rising Republican
frustration with the U.S. military involvement in Libya, House
Speaker  John Boehner  told President  Barack Obama  in a letter
yesterday that without congressional authorization, the mission
would be in violation of the War Powers Resolution on June 19.  The Ohio Republican’s demand for more information about the
U.S. role in the operation follows the House’s June 3 approval
of a resolution, sponsored by Boehner, rebuking Obama for
failure to state a “compelling” national security
“rationale” for supporting the bombing campaign against Libyan
dictator  Muammar Qaddafi .  The House voted 268-145 to approve that  resolution ,
derailing an alternative by Ohio Democratic Representative
Dennis Kucinich that would have required Obama to withdraw U.S.
military support from the Libya mission in 15 days. Kucinich’s
resolution, which failed by a vote of 148-265, was supported by
87 Republicans.  Approval of Boehner’s resolution reflected what lawmakers
described as a combination of war fatigue, perplexity over the
strategic purpose of the U.S. mission in  Libya  and Obama’s
failure to consult Congress.  In his letter to Obama, Boehner said that absent
congressional approval, the  War Powers Resolution of 1973 
requires a cessation of U.S. military involvement and withdrawal
of forces 90 days after the start of a conflict.  June 17 Deadline  The speaker demanded that the president provide by June 17
any legal analysis his lawyers have written “to justify your
position” that the administration is in compliance with the
1973 War Powers Resolution.  Boehner’s deadline for Obama’s response coincides with the
day set in the House resolution for the administration to
provide a more detailed explanation of the U.S. mission in
Libya.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said the administration
will send a letter and a report on the Libya mission to Congress
this afternoon. The report, which runs more than 30 pages, will
“answer a lot of the questions that members have,” Carney said
at the White House.  The U.S. action in Libya action is “consistent” with
limits on White House authority, Carney said. The administration
is “very confident” it can satisfy congressional concerns, he
said.  Libya Operations  Since the start of the campaign in March, the U.S. has
provided aerial surveillance and refueling support for the
operation, now led by the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization , to
pressure Qaddafi to yield power and to protect rebels from
forces loyal to him.  The House “has sought to balance two equal imperatives
regarding Libya which have been in direct contradiction,”
Boehner said in the letter, which was released by his office.  Members have sought to reconcile “America’s leadership
role in the world” with a “strong concern and opposition” to
“using military force when the military mission, by design,
cannot secure a U.S. strategic policy objective,” Boehner
wrote.  “The White House has systematically avoided requesting a
formal authorization” while contending that the
administration’s “actions are consistent with the War Powers
Resolution,” he wrote.  Frustrated Americans  That “has left many members of Congress as well as the
American people frustrated by the lack of clarity over the
administration’s strategic policies,” Boehner said.  Kucinich released a statement yesterday saying that he and
another anti-war House member, North Carolina Republican Walter Jones, would file a federal lawsuit in  Washington  today
objecting to U.S. participation in the Libya mission.  Growing Republican impatience with U.S. military
entanglements overseas was also reflected in the June 13 debate
by Republican presidential hopefuls in  New Hampshire .
Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota  called Obama’s
Libya strategy “substantially flawed.”  Mitt Romney , a former
Massachusetts governor, said that a lesson of the U.S. war in
 Afghanistan  is that U.S. troops “shouldn’t go off and try to
fight a war of independence for another nation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  