-- 
Boehringer, Pfizer’s Spiriva Mist Inhaler May Up Death Risk

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-06-15T15:03:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/boehringer-pfizer-s-spiriva-may-raise-death-risk-study-finds.html
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH and  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE) ’s Spiriva mist inhaler for chronic  lung disease  may raise
the risk of an early death, a review of five studies found.  The use of Spiriva administered in mist form was associated
with a 52 percent increase in the risk of mortality, compared
with patients given only a placebo, according to the  review 
published today in the  British Medical Journal . The analysis
included five clinical trials involving more than 6,500
patients.  “The findings add weight to recent safety concerns by
regulatory agencies regarding the risk of an increased mortality
risk associated with this device,” the BMJ said in a statement.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  last year said a two-
year review didn’t indicate Spiriva increased the risk of heart
attack and stroke. Earlier studies had suggested a potential
risk. Spiriva is a long-acting treatment for chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, a breathing difficulty that affects as many
as 24 million Americans, according to the  National Heart, Lung
and Blood Institute , a U.S. agency. The medicine is co-marketed
by New York-based Pfizer and closely held Boehringer, of
Ingelheim,  Germany .  Physicians should inform patients of the elevated risk of
the therapy and should be careful in prescribing it to those
with possible underlying heart problems, the U.K. and U.S.
researchers concluded in the BMJ study. Spiriva is produced both
as a mist, delivered with the Respimat inhaler, and as a powder,
delivered with a Handihaler device. The mist inhaler is
available in 55 countries including the U.K., though isn’t
approved yet in the U.S., according to the study.  Boehringer Disagrees  “We do not agree with the authors’ conclusion that there
is an increased mortality risk for Spiriva Respimat in COPD,”
Boehringer said in an e-mailed statement. The treatment’s risks
and benefits have been documented in clinical trials and are
described in the product’s label, the drugmaker said. Boehringer
and Pfizer have access to detailed patient data from the trials
which the authors of the BMJ study didn’t have, the company
said.  Boehringer said it’s conducting a study of more than 17,000
patients comparing Spiriva Respimat and Spiriva Handihaler to
confirm efficacy and safety, and results are due in early 2014.  Until the results of that study, dubbed TioSpir, become
available, “the indirect evidence that is currently available
suggests that the Handihaler is a safer bet than the Respimat,”
Christopher Cates, a senior clinical research fellow at St.
George’s University of  London , wrote in an accompanying
 editorial .  The mist inhaler’s increased risk may stem from higher
plasma concentrations of Spiriva resulting from the device’s
improved delivery, Cates said.  Also known as emphysema, chronic bronchitis or smoker’s
cough, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease kills more than
120,000 Americans a year as blockages in the lungs lead to
shortness of breath and disability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  