-- 
BOJ Creates $6 Billion Lending Program to Boost Growth After Record Quake

-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-06-14T07:50:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/boj-creates-6-billion-lending-program-to-boost-growth-as-sentiment-wanes.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  limited its extra
assistance for the earthquake-hit economy to a $6 billion
lending program to help companies without real estate collateral.  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his policy board will make
500 billion yen in funds available to banks to make equity
investments and to lend to companies, the bank said in a
statement released in Tokyo today. “Weakness has been observed
in the financial positions of some firms, mainly small ones,
since the earthquake,” it said.  Japan’s central bank cited signs of a pick-up as it also
kept the benchmark overnight rate in a range of between zero
percent and 0.1 percent and left unchanged its 10 trillion yen
asset-buying program. The step today won’t be enough to support
an economy still reeling after the March earthquake, said
economist  Yoshimasa Maruyama .  “The new loan isn’t bad, but it doesn’t have much effect
on boosting Japan’s potential growth and increasing lending,”
said Maruyama, a senior economist at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo.
“Japan’s economy is recovering from a slump after the
earthquake, but the level of the recovery still remains low.
Given that, the BOJ should expand its asset-purchase program.  The  International Monetary Fund  last week called on the
central bank to boost its program to buy assets from  government
bonds  to exchange-traded funds to “guard against deflation
risks and support the recovery.”  Shares Rise  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 1.1 percent to 9,547.79
at the 3 p.m. close in  Tokyo  today, the biggest gain in two
weeks. The yen traded at 80.35 per dollar, from 80.22 before the
announcement.  Loans will be offered at a 0.1 percent interest rate, and
will be available for two years, with a two-year extension
possible, the bank said.  “The BOJ wanted to show its readiness to deal with a
capital shortage should one occur,” said Jun Fukashiro, a  money
manager  who helps oversee about 1.36 trillion yen at Toyota
Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.  The nation’s largest manufacturers were pessimistic about
business prospects for a third consecutive quarter, a government
survey showed today, with sentiment plunging to minus 23.3
points this quarter compared with minus 3.2 three months ago. A
negative number means pessimists outnumber optimists.  Signs of Pick-up  Still, the BOJ maintained its view that the economy will
return to a moderate recovery from the second half of the fiscal
year through March 2012. It also raised its monthly economic
assessment for the first time since February, saying that there
are some signs of a pick-up.  “Over the short term, there have been some positive
surprises,” with output and supply-chain constraints recovering
faster than expected, Shirakawa said at a press conference after
the decision. He warned that power shortages could depress
growth in the longer term as they can increase manufacturing
costs and prompt companies to review their domestic capital
investment plans.  Industrial production rose in April, rebounding from a
record plunge in March, and companies said they plan to boost
output in May and June.  Nissan Motor Co.’s Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn 
said last month that the automaker plans to invest 3 billion yen
to reinforce the foundation of its most heavily damaged domestic
factory after the March quake disrupted output.  Output Restored  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) , the largest maker of
microcontrollers used in cars, last week said its output will be
restored to normal levels by the end of September, one month
earlier than it previously forecast. Toyota Motor Corp. also
predicts that its domestic production will recover to 90 percent
of usual levels this month.  Japan’s economy shrank at an annualized 3.5 percent rate in
the first quarter, revised data showed last week. The economy
will shrink for the third straight quarter before resuming
growth in second half of the year, according to the average
forecast of 43 economists in a survey by the government-
affiliated Economic Planning Association.  Recent data suggest the slump has extended into this
quarter. Machinery orders fell 3.3 percent in April, the first
decline in four months, exports had their biggest drop since
October 2009, the  unemployment rate  climbed and households cut
spending. Exporters’ woes have also been compounded by the
stronger yen, which has gained 4 percent against the dollar in
the past six months.  Quake Damage  The March 11 earthquake and tsunami in northeastern  Japan 
left more than 23,000 people dead or missing and triggered a
nuclear crisis. The government estimated that direct damage from
the quake may climb to 25 trillion yen.  The BOJ last year introduced a 3 trillion yen credit
program to provide funds to industries such as energy,
environment and social infrastructure that the bank feels has
growth potential. It has extended 2.94 trillion yen of the
pledged amount as of this month.  Some BOJ policy makers had voiced reluctance to increase
the program. Board member Seiji Nakamura said on June 2 there
have been signs of side-effects, including intensifying
competition among lenders to reduce loan rates, which hurt their
earnings. The program was also introduced as a “catalyst” to
encourage private lending and shouldn’t be expected to remain in
place perpetually, he said.  Shirakawa said today increasing the program’s size wouldn’t
enhance its effectiveness and noted that financial institutions
had voiced concern about the facility intensifying competition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  