-- 
Bondholders Should Supply 30% of Greek Aid, Netherlands’ De Jager Says

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l   a n d   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 
2011-06-14T15:34:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/bondholders-should-supply-30-of-greek-aid-netherlands-de-jager-says.html
Private-sector investors should
contribute at least 30 percent of possible additional
refinancing aid for Greece, Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said.  “It’s important that the private sector, which benefits
much from this program, makes a contribution” of more than 30
percent, he told parliament in The Hague today. “It depends on
the financing gap, so I can’t mention any amounts.”  While the  European Central Bank  has said it could accept a
plan in which creditors voluntarily agree to buy Greek bonds to
replace maturing debt, the monetary policy makers have warned
against a German proposal that maturities on Greek debt be
extended for seven years, an outcome that rating companies said
would be considered a default.  “There are ways to make it attractive for private parties
to participate voluntarily in extending debt,”  De Jager  said
before a meeting with European counterparts in Brussels. “For
instance new bonds, which replace old ones, can be given new
special rights the old bonds lack.”  European finance chiefs began the final stage of hammering
out a Greek rescue to prevent the euro area’s first sovereign
default after the country was slapped with the world’s lowest
credit rating by  Standard & Poor’s . German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said there won’t be a decision today on an
aid package for Greece.  “We need to make it as voluntary as possible to prevent
triggering scenarios that cost more and make financial markets
lose all confidence in the euro zone,” De Jager said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net ;
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 