-- 
Boston Bruins Need Elusive Road Win to End 39-Year Stanley Cup Wait

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d   a n d   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 
2011-06-14T04:57:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/boston-bruins-need-elusive-road-win-to-end-39-year-stanley-cup-wait.html
The  Boston Bruins  will have to do
something they haven’t managed so far in the Stanley Cup Final
to end their 39-year wait for a National Hockey League title --
win on the road.  All six games in the series have been claimed by the home
team. Last night, the Bruins beat the Vancouver Canucks 5-2 in
front of a capacity crowd of 17,565 at TD Garden in Boston to
set up a deciding Game 7 in Vancouver tomorrow.  “We know how to beat these guys,” said Jeff Nagle, 22, a
Bruins fan and recent graduate of Champlain College in
Burlington,  Vermont . “We can beat them.”  The Bruins left the ice to thunderous chants of “We want
the Cup” last night after tying the championship series at
three games apiece. As fans poured out onto Causeway Street
after the game, the top floors of  Boston ’s Prudential Center
were lit up with “Go Bs.”  The Bruins scored four goals in a four minute, 14-second
first-period span to take control of Game 6.  The opening goals by Brad Marchand and Milan Lucic were 35
seconds apart. When Andrew Ference scored the third, Canucks
goalie Roberto Luongo was benched in favor of Cory Schneider, a
Massachusetts native who played for  Boston College .  Boston’s second shot against Schneider yielded the fourth
goal, a deflection into the net by  Michael Ryder  of a Tomas Kaberle slap shot.  After a goalless second period, the Canucks scored early in
the third through Henrik Sedin. David Krejci made it 5-1 for the
home team before Maxim Lapierre added another for the Canucks.  ‘One Chance’  A disappointed Raymond Kirk traveled from Calgary to cheer
for the Canucks.  “They never make it easy,” said the 37-year-old office
manager, who was wearing a team jersey bearing Mason Raymond’s
No. 21. “They have one chance to win the cup. I’ll take that.”  Vancouver  hasn’t won the title since joining the NHL in
1970, two years before the Bruins got the last of their five
Stanley Cups. The Game 7 host has a 12-3 record in the Stanley
Cup Final, though Pittsburgh won at  Detroit  in the last decider
two years ago.  “I go home. I pack. I go to Vancouver,” Bruins fan Mark
Wallace, 38, who works in Boston for an environmental data
company, said after last night’s win.  Wallace said he’ll “cheer with thunderous roars” tomorrow
from his seat 11 rows behind the net at Rogers Arena in
Vancouver.  “I think I might cry” when the Bruins hoist the cup, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net 
Tom Moroney in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  