-- 
Brazil Must Improve Airports Before World Cup, Olympic President Says

-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-06-14T15:19:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/brazil-must-improve-airports-before-2014-olympic-committee-president-says.html
Brazil  needs to improve its airports
ahead of the 2014  World Cup  and the 2016 Olympics in  Rio de
Janeiro , International Olympic Committee President Jacques Rogge
said.  “The priority is on the airports,” Rogge said. “The rest
is going according to the master plan.”  The issue is more pressing for the World Cup than the
Olympics, he said. Brazil President  Dilma Rousseff  said today
that the country’s projects will be ready on time for the soccer
tournament. Brazil’s government will invest 5.15 billion reais
($3.3 billion) on airports, Rousseff said in a weekly column
published on the government website.  Brazil is remodeling airports, improving roads and
expanding urban transit as part of Rousseff’s pledge to invest
955 billion reais over four years to bolster infrastructure
before hosting the sporting events.  Rogge said FIFA, soccer’s governing body, would benefit
from reform after several allegations of corruption.  The IOC president said FIFA will emerge stronger should the
soccer group reform itself. The Olympic Committee had a similar
problem in 1998 and 1999 and enacted reforms to solve it, he
said.  Those changes included creating an ethical committee,
imposing strict rules on candidate countries and stronger rules
against corruption, he said.  Rogge said the Olympic committee is preparing for the vote
on the host of the 2018 winter Olympics on July 6. The
candidates, Annecy,  France ; Munich and Pyeongchang, South Korea,
are all “serious and strong” candidates with good geography
and experience in winter sports, Rogge said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 