-- 
Brevan Howard Among Commodities Funds That Rose in May Rout

-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-06-14T16:22:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/brevan-howard-among-commodities-funds-that-gained-in-may-rout.html
Commodities hedge funds run by
 Brevan Howard  Asset Management LLP and Jamison Capital Partners
LLC rose in May during the biggest commodities rout in a year,
according to a report to investors and people familiar with the
returns.  The Brevan Howard Commodities Strategies Master Fund Ltd.,
which managed $368 million as of March 31, gained 0.5 percent
last month, according to a report sent by the London-based firm
to investors and obtained by Bloomberg News. Jamison’s
Koppenberg Macro Commodity Fund Ltd., which manages more than
$600 million, increased about 5.9 percent, said two people
briefed on the New York-based firm’s returns, who asked not to
be identified because the information is private.  Commodity hedge funds lost 0.7 percent on average in May,
the biggest monthly decline since June 2010, according to the
Newedge Commodity Trading Index, as the sovereign-debt crisis in
 Europe  and accelerating inflation in  China  fanned speculation
that global economic growth will slow. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Spot index of 24 raw materials dropped 6.8 percent, the
biggest decline in a year.  Clive Capital LLP, the London-based commodity hedge fund
founded by Chris Levett, lost 10 percent last month and assets
dropped to $4.8 billion from $5.1 billion as of May 1, according
to two people briefed on the returns and assets. A spokeswoman
from Clive Capital declined to comment.  Silver Shorts  BlueGold Capital Management LLP’s commodity hedge fund
declined 23 percent in May and slumped 10 percent in the first
five months, according to two people briefed on the returns.  Pierre Andurand , chief investment officer of London-based
BlueGold Capital, declined to comment.  Jamison and Brevan Howard didn’t immediately respond to
phone calls seeking comment.  Some smaller funds profited last month by shorting
commodities, including metals, oil and meats, and hedging their
long bets. Speculators cut their net-long position, or bets on
higher prices, in U.S. commodity futures by 11 percent in the
week ended May 17, by 15 percent in the week ended May 10 and by
2.4 percent in the week ended May 3, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Duet Commodities Fund Ltd., which started in July and has
assets of less than $100 million, rose 3.7 percent last month,
according to a letter to investors. The gain resulted in part
from short bets on silver, said Tony Hall, the London-based
firm’s chief investment officer.  “We didn’t believe the story in silver. It bordered on
hysteria -- that was the only commodity I could honestly say
approached bubble status,” Hall said in a telephone interview,
adding that he likes Brent crude oil and copper in the “medium
term.”  ‘Cascading Positions’  Rosetta Capital Management, which manages $180 million and
trades commodities futures, returned 1.8 percent last month,
according to two people briefed on the returns. The gain was
helped by the fund’s hog and cattle shorts, said Jim Green, the
Chicago-based firm’s founding principal.  “We were of the opinion that the markets were forced too
high by some of the ETFs and some of the long-only people that
really took the cattle and hogs out of line,” Green said. He
likes spreads in the futures of meats and grains for the next 16
to 18 months, he said.  Portal Capital’s Green Energy Fund, a long-biased fund
based in Tualatin,  Oregon , that invests in physical commodities,
returned 2.42 percent last month, according to a letter to
investors and obtained by Bloomberg News.  The fund buys commodities such as indium, gallium and
germanium, taking physical delivery of the metals and storing
them in a warehouse in Stratford,  Connecticut . Robert Mitchell,
the fund’s portfolio manager, said the strategy doesn’t trade
commodities that have futures contracts, which was a major
reason it was able to avoid the sell-off.  “There was forced liquidation from traders who had
cascading positions” in futures contracts, Mitchell said in a
telephone interview. “The stress in the system spilled over
into other commodities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  