-- 
Broker-Dealer Audits Targeted In New U.S. Inspection Program

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-14T16:18:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/broker-dealer-audits-may-be-targeted-in-new-inspection-program.html
The biggest U.S. broker-dealers will
have to pay more than $1 million a year to finance inspections
of the firms that audit them under a regulatory program prompted
by revelations related to  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme.  The  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board  voted 5-0
today to establish a temporary system for monitoring auditors of
broker-dealers that will give the Washington-based watchdog time
to determine what a permanent system should look like.  “If we find violations of law, we won’t wait to act on
them,” Chairman James R. Doty said in remarks before the vote.
“We will use our disciplinary authority in any appropriate
cases of auditor misconduct.”  The PCAOB’s new program requires U.S. broker-dealers to
fund the estimated $14.4 million inspections program, which
could amount to more than $1 million for the largest firms. The
board said 640 brokerages will be charged this year, with fees
assessed in proportion to a firm’s net capital. The fee
structure was also passed by the board with a 5-0 vote.  Companies such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  can expect the new fees to be assessed on their broker-
dealers, separately from fees already assessed on parent
companies for the PCAOB’s existing public-company audit
inspections.  Lawmakers included expanded oversight of broker-dealers in
the Dodd-Frank Act last year after it was revealed that Madoff
conducted his multibillion-dollar fraud while his brokerage was
being audited by a small firm operating out of a 13-by-18-foot
storefront. The regulatory overhaul eliminated a system in which
auditors had to register with the PCAOB but weren’t overseen by
the panel.  Non-Custodial Auditors  A group of U.S. House members who are also accountants
urged the PCAOB in a Feb. 14 letter to focus the program on
brokers who have custody of client assets, not those who don’t.  “We urge the PCAOB to act quickly to begin an effective
and targeted inspection program over these auditors,” the
lawmakers wrote.  The board focused much of its discussion today on whether
or not auditors of “introducing” broker-dealers, or those who
don’t hold client funds, should be exempted in the permanent
program.  “We may be able to narrow the scope and cost of the law to
focus on areas where our oversight would make a difference,”
Doty said.  Permanent Program  Inspections under the temporary program won’t produce
public reports on individual firms, and most broker-dealer
auditors won’t see inspectors in that time. The permanent
program is expected to be established in 2013.  The PCAOB, a nonprofit corporation funded by fees on public
companies, regulates and inspects about 2,500 registered
auditors under the authority of the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Board votes need to be approved by the SEC, which is
scheduled to consider a related rule change tomorrow.  In other business at today’s meeting, the board raised the
threshold for the size of public companies charged fees to fund
the PCAOB’s wider inspections program. The board moved the
minimum from $25 million in market cap to $75 million, relieving
about 1,100 smaller companies from the fees. For investment
companies, which carry a higher threshold, the board moved it
from $250 million to $500 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  