-- 
Bruins Win 5-2 to Force Decisive Game 7 at Vancouver in Stanley Cup Final

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-06-14T04:16:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/bruins-win-5-2-to-force-decisive-game-7-at-vancouver-in-stanley-cup-final.html
The  Boston Bruins  forced a decisive
Game 7 in the  National Hockey League ’s Stanley Cup Final by
scoring four first-period goals in a 5-2 victory against the
 Vancouver Canucks .  Brad Marchand, Milan Lucic, Andrew Ference and  Michael Ryder  scored in a 4-minute, 14-second span at TD Garden in
Boston last night as the Bruins evened the NHL’s best-of-seven
championship series at three games apiece.  Game 7 will be tomorrow in Vancouver, where the Canucks
have won all three Stanley Cup Final games by one goal.  “We’ve created ourselves another opportunity and it’s up
to us to take advantage of it,” Bruins coach Claude Julien said
at a news conference. “We have to be a little hungrier than the
last three times we’ve been in  Vancouver .”  The home team has won every game in the series so far. The
host team has a 12-3 record in Game 7 of the Stanley Cup Final,
though Pittsburgh won at  Detroit  in the last decider in 2009.  Canucks fans crowded into downtown Vancouver to watch last
night’s game on jumbo television screens and quickly turned
their sights to Game 7 after Boston jumped out to a 4-0 lead
less than 10 minutes in.  “Sad game,” said Andrew Shields, a high school student
from White Rock, British Columbia, who was wearing a bright blue
“Cat in the Hat” bodysuit.  “We’ll be back Wednesday,” the 17-year-old Shields said
in an interview at a downtown food court. “It’s going to be
crazy, insane. So many people are going to come out, and when we
win it’s going to be awesome.”  Seeking First Title  The Canucks are seeking their first NHL title after
finishing with the best record in the league during the regular
season. The last team from  Canada  to win the Stanley Cup was the
 Montreal Canadiens  in 1993. Vancouver last reached the NHL
Finals in 1994, losing a Game 7 in New York to the Rangers.  The Bruins won the last of their five Stanley Cups in 1972.
Boston is 0-5 in the finals since then, losing most recently to
 Edmonton  in 1990.  “This is a dream come true to have this kind of
opportunity, but it’s not a dream come true unless we come out
on top,” Boston’s Lucic, a Vancouver native, said in a
televised interview. “We have to prepare like we did tonight
and show that fire and passion. We came out with the mindset
that we weren’t going to be denied.”  Game 7 Wins  Vancouver won a Game 7 at home during the opening round of
the playoffs, beating the  Chicago Blackhawks  in overtime after
blowing a 3-0 series lead.  Boston  won Game 7 matchups with Montreal and  Tampa Bay  in
the Eastern Conference playoffs as Nathan Horton scored the
winning goal in both games. Horton is out with a concussion
suffered during Game 3 against the Canucks, though he watched
last night’s win from off the ice.  The Bruins outscored Vancouver 17-3 in the three games in
Boston and chased Canucks goaltender Roberto Luongo with their
first-period outburst in Game 6.  Boston took a 1-0 lead 5:31 into the first period when
Marchand, a rookie, slipped behind the Canucks defense and fired
a wrist shot over Luongo’s glove shoulder. Lucic doubled the
advantage 35 seconds later during a line change by the Canucks,
taking a pass from Rich Peverley and ripping a shot that
trickled through Luongo’s legs.  Luongo was replaced by Cory Schneider after giving up a
power-play goal to Ference 8:35 into the opening period.
Schneider allowed a goal on the second shot he faced 70 seconds
later, as Ryder redirected Tomas Kaberle’s slap shot into the
top of the Vancouver net.  The Canucks beat Bruins goaltender Tim Thomas when Henrik Sedin scored a power-play goal 22 seconds into the third period.  Boston pushed its lead back to four goals with 13:01
remaining as David Krejci scored on a 5-on-3 power play.  Vancouver’s second goal came from Maxim Lapierre with 2:26
left.  The last time the home team won every game in the Stanley
Cup Final was 2003, when the  New Jersey Devils  defeated the
Anaheim Ducks in seven games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  