-- 
Canada First Quarter Capacity Utilization Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-06-14T12:30:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/canada-first-quarter-capacity-utilization-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's capacity utilization report for the first quarter
released by  Statistics Canada .  Canadian industries operated at 79.0% of their
production capacity in the first quarter, up 2.2
percentage points from 76.8% in the previous quarter. This
advance gave new momentum to the growth in capacity use
after four consecutive quarters of progressively slowing
increases.  This was the seventh consecutive quarterly increase and
the largest since the fourth quarter of 2009.  Manufacturing industries led the widespread growth in
capacity use in the first quarter. Non-manufacturing
industries also recorded significant increases.  Manufacturing: Growth in most industries  Capacity use in manufacturing gained speed during the
first quarter, rising 2.8 percentage points to 79.7%. This
increase was the fastest in the current unbroken string of
gains that began in the third quarter of 2009.  Capacity use rose in 18 of the 21 major manufacturing
industries in the first quarter.  Industries that contributed most to the increase were
transportation equipment, machinery, chemicals, wood and
fabricated metals.  Textile mills, rubber, and electrical equipment and
appliance manufacturers registered the largest increments
in their respective capacity use. However, the
contribution of these industries to the overall
manufacturing sector was limited as a result of their
smaller size.  Leather and allied products was the only industry that
recorded a substantial decline in capacity use.  Strong demand for motor vehicles and motor vehicle
parts helped the transportation equipment industry
increase its capacity use by 3.7 percentage points to
83.8% in the first quarter, the highest rate since the
third quarter of 2007.  Capacity use in machinery manufacturing climbed 5.5
percentage points from the previous quarter to 83.8%. This
growth was a result of increased production of all types
of machinery, notably mining, oil and gas and industrial
machinery. Both shipments and inventories increased in the
machinery manufacturing industry.  In the  chemical industry , capacity use rose from 73.9%
to 77.5%, as a result of higher production fuelled by
stronger exports. Strong growth in the production of
resin, synthetic rubber, and artificial and synthetic
fibres and filaments more than offset a decline in
pharmaceutical and medicine production.  In the wood product industry, higher production for all
types of wood products pushed capacity use from 68.5% to
72.2%.  Non-manufacturing: Capacity use up in all industries  Capacity utilization increased in the first quarter in
all non-manufacturing industries.  In the  construction industry , capacity use increased
1.1 percentage points to 76.0%. Higher activity levels in
residential and engineering construction were behind this
gain.  Larger crude petroleum export volumes enabled the oil
and gas extraction industry to boost the use of its
productive capacity by 2.1 percentage points to 85.7%.  Capacity utilization in mining, excluding oil and gas
extraction, increased 2.6 percentage points to 71.2%,
after declines in the two previous quarters. Increased
activity, primarily in potash mining, but also in copper,
nickel, lead, zinc and iron ore mining, accounted for this
change.  Following a decline in the previous quarter, capacity
use in the forestry and logging industry rose 5.1
percentage points to 96.5% in the first quarter as
production increased.  In the electric power generation, transmission and
distribution industry, capacity use increased 0.9
percentage points to 77.4%.  Note to readers  The industrial capacity utilization rate is the ratio
of an industry's actual output to its estimated potential
output. For most industries, the annual estimates are
obtained from the Capital and Repair Expenditures survey
while the quarterly pattern is derived from output-to-
capital ratio series, the output being the real gross
domestic product at factor cost, seasonally adjusted, by
industry.  This program covers all manufacturing and selected non-
manufacturing industries.  With this release, rates have been revised back to the
first quarter of 2009 to reflect updated source data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  