-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Declines as Milder U.S. Weather Forecast

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-06-14T16:07:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/canadian-natural-gas-declines-as-milder-u-s-weather-forecast.html
Canadian natural gas fell amid
forecasts of milder weather in the U.S., easing concern that gas
bound for winter reserves will be diverted to power air
conditioners.  Gas fell 2 percent after forecasters including AccuWeather
Inc. predicted temperatures in the Midwest, the biggest
consuming region for Canadian gas, will be close to seasonal
norms for the rest of June.  Chicago  will have a high of 76
degrees Fahrenheit (24 Celsius) June 16, 5 degrees below normal,
the State College, Pennsylvania-based forecaster said.  “There’s been a sell-off because the heat we’ve been
seeing hasn’t continued,” said Stephen Smith, an energy analyst
and president of Stephen Smith Energy Associates in Natchez,
 Mississippi . “The two-week cooling forecast has backed off
some.”  Alberta gas for July delivery tumbled 8 cents to C$3.855
per gigajoule ($3.78 per million British thermal units) as of
11:15 a.m.  New York  time, according to  NGX,  a Canadian Internet
market. Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to users in  Canada 
and the U.S., and is priced on TransCanada Corp.’s  Alberta 
system.  Gas for July delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
dropped 4.8 cents to $4.598 per million Btu.  Shippers were warned today that a compressor failure on the
Alliance Pipeline in North Dakota would restrict shipments to 10
percent tomorrow. Alliance is an express line to Chicago from
northwestern Alberta that can carry up to 1.5 billion cubic feet
a day.  Pipeline Flows  Volume on  TransCanada’s  Alberta system, which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.6 billion cubic
feet as of 10:30 a.m. in New York, 213 million below target.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.48 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 414 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.6 billion cubic feet today, about 80 percent of its
capacity of 2.02 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 3.09
billion cubic feet at 10:35 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 