-- 
Canadian Dollar Gains Versus Most Peers as Reports Fuel Appetite for Risk

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-06-14T21:07:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/canadian-currency-gains-for-second-day-versus-greenback-as-stocks-advance.html
Canada ’s currency strengthened
against the majority of its most-traded counterparts as
stronger-than-forecast data in the U.S. and  China  added to the
appeal of currencies of commodity exporters.  The Canadian dollar, sometimes known as the loonie for the
image of the bird on the C$1 coin, rose to its highest in almost
two weeks versus the greenback as retail sales in the U.S.,
Canada’s biggest trading partner, fell less than forecast and
China’s industrial output increased, boosting appetite for
higher-yielding assets. Stocks and commodities climbed.  “As we see better-than-expected U.S. data, which was the
case today, and throw in firmer commodity prices, that provides
a strong sense of support for the loonie,” said  Joe Manimbo , a
market analyst in  Washington  at Travelex Global Business
Payments, a currency-exchange network. “We’re seeing people
venture back into risky investments and away from the dollar,
yen and Swiss franc.”  The loonie gained for a second day, appreciating 0.8
percent to 96.82 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto,
from 97.61 cents yesterday. It touched 96.75 cents, the
strongest level since June 1. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0328.  Canada’s dollar last strengthened for more than a single
day against the U.S. dollar in the three sessions ended May 19.  Yen, Franc  The biggest losers against the Canadian dollar were the yen
and the Swiss franc, traditionally considered refuge currencies.  The loonie rose 1.1 percent to 83.13 yen, from 82.21 yen,
and gained 1.8 percent against the franc to 87.31 centimes, from
85.77. It touched 83.28 yen and 87.39 centimes, both the
strongest levels since June 1.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.3 percent, and the
MSCI World Index of stocks climbed 1.4 percent. The Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of  raw materials  rose 0.7 percent.
Raw materials account for about half of Canada’s exports.  Crude oil, the nation’s biggest export, advanced for the
first time in three days. Crude for July delivery increased 2.2
percent to $99.42 a barrel in New York.  The currencies of Norway and  Australia , fellow commodity
exporters, were among the top performers versus the greenback.  “This week is really quiet in terms of Canadian data, so
the Canadian dollar is really taking its cue from risk
appetite,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research at
the online currency trader GFT Forex in New York.  U.S. Retail Sales  Sales at U.S. retailers fell 0.2 percent in May as slumping
demand for autos and electronics overshadowed gains among
Internet merchants and restaurants, Commerce Department data
showed. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
0.5 percent drop.  “The U.S. data has been so negative recently it was a bit
of a relief it was not a terrible number,” said  Steve Butler ,
director of foreign-exchange trading in Toronto at Bank of Nova
Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit.  Today’s report followed data earlier this month that showed
the U.S. unemployment rate rose to 9.1 percent in May and
manufacturing slowed.  Chinese industrial production increased 13.2 percent last
month, more than economists forecast, and retail sales rose 16.9
percent, the statistics bureau reported. The consumer-price
index gained 5.5 percent, matching economists’ median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey. Lenders were ordered to set aside more
cash as reserves.  Bonds Fall  Canada’s government bonds dropped, pushing the yield on the
two-year benchmark up five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 1.52 percent, the highest level since June 1. The 1.75
percent security due in March 2013 fell 9 cents to C$100.39.
Ten-year note yields climbed as much as eight basis points to
3.08 percent, the highest since May 31.  The government will auction C$3.5 billion ($3.6 billion) of
two-year notes tomorrow, according to a statement on the Bank of
Canada’s website. The 2 percent securities mature in August
2013.  Canadian industrial companies’ use of their production
capacity rose to the highest level in more than three years
between January and March on gains in manufacturing, government
figures showed.  The share of plant capacity in use rose to 79 percent in
the first quarter, the highest since the end of 2007,  Statistics
Canada  said today in Ottawa. Economists in a Bloomberg survey
predicted the rate would be 77.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  