-- 
Carlyle Acquires 55% of Tiger-Backed Emerging-Market Fund

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-06-14T16:27:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/carlyle-acquires-55-of-tiger-backed-emerging-market-fund-1-.html
Carlyle Group  agreed to buy a 55
percent stake in Tiger Management LLC-backed Emerging Sovereign
Group LLC, which oversees $1.6 billion in assets, its second
purchase of a hedge-fund manager in six months.  ESG’s principals, including Kevin Kenny, the founder, will
receive an undisclosed amount of cash, a stake in Carlyle and
payments contingent on performance, the companies said today.
Tiger Management, headed by Chief Executive Officer  Julian Robertson , will keep its shares of New York-based ESG, which
focuses on emerging markets, and its stakes in the firm’s funds.  Private-equity firms are expanding into asset management
and advisory businesses as profits from leveraged buyouts
decline. The diversification efforts make the firms more
attractive to public shareholders, whom Washington-based Carlyle
seeks to court through an initial public offering. Carlyle hired
Mitch Petrick, Morgan Stanley’s former sales and trading chief,
as a managing director in 2010 with a mandate that included
adding pools that trade securities on a daily basis.  “They’re in our sweet spot,” Petrick said of ESG in an
interview. “The team has a good track record, a diverse set of
strategies and was incubated at a great place for the last
decade.”  ESG’s principals will reinvest most of the initial proceeds
from the transaction into the firm’s funds, according to the
companies. The deal is expected to be completed by July 1, they
said.  Emerging-Market Forecasts  The firm’s Emerging Sovereign Master Fund returned 6.9
percent this year through May after gaining 8.5 percent last
year, according to an investor, who asked not to be named
because the fund is private. The fund returned 9.8 percent in
2009 after losing 21 percent in 2008, the investor said.  Carlyle, Petrick and Kenny declined to comment on
performance.  Emerging-market hedge funds averaged gains of 0.8 percent
this year through May, 11 percent last year and 40 percent in
2009, according to Hedge Fund Research Inc. The funds slumped 37
percent in 2008, according to the Chicago-based research firm.  Emerging-market economies are forecast to expand 6.3
percent this year, compared with 2.2 percent for developed
nations, according to the Washington-based World Bank.  The MSCI emerging-market gauge dropped 2.3 percent this
year through yesterday, compared with a 0.7 percent advance in
the MSCI World Index of developed-nation shares. Stocks in the
emerging-market index are valued at about 10.6 times analysts’
12-month earnings estimates, versus 11.7 for the MSCI World
Index members, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Winners and Losers  “The dispersion of winners and losers is growing every
year, which makes for great stock picking,” Kenny said in an
interview. “On the macro side, we’re experiencing the greatest
monetary-policy experiment in our lifetime, which creates great
risk-return opportunities.”  ESG, with 26 employees, will maintain its relationships
with New York-based Tiger Management, Kenny said.  “You can’t generate great returns unless you have a great
team,” Kenny said. “The number-one objective is keeping my
team together and attracting talent. The Carlyle relationship
goes a long way toward that goal.”  Petrick in December negotiated Carlyle’s acquisition of a
majority stake in Claren Road Asset Management LLC, a $4.5
billion long-short hedge fund focused on liquid credit assets.
He then turned to finding an emerging-markets manager, a key
step in the firm’s broader expansion plan that includes buying
and building teams.  Second Time Around  “Carlyle’s global platform gives managers an edge,” he
said. “When Kevin goes to  China , he has the benefit of Carlyle
contacts and employees there. You can’t underestimate the
importance of access on the ground in these regions.”  Carlyle, the world’s second-largest private-equity firm
with $107 billion under management at yearend, has 990 employees
in 19 countries, according to its website.  Petrick and Kenny will be working together for the second
time. Kenny, 43, who will continue running ESG’s day-to-day
operations, led emerging-markets bond trading at Morgan Stanley.
He left the bank in 2002 and established ESG with  seed capital 
from Tiger Management’s Robertson, an industry pioneer who now
backs emerging fund managers.  Emerging Sovereign Group oversees four strategies,
including macro and long-short equity hedge funds. Macro funds
are designed to profit from broad economic trends, and long-
short managers can bet on, or against, stocks.  IPO Plans  Carlyle is adding more liquid investments as it prepares
for a public share sale to join U.S.-listed rivals  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  and KKR & Co., which diversified after the 2008 market
declines. Apollo Global Management LLC, which completed a $565
million IPO in March, formed an alliance with Lighthouse
Investment Partners, a fund-of-funds manager in  Palm Beach
Gardens ,  Florida , in December to offer hedge-fund investments
for clients.  A previous effort by Carlyle to add hedge funds failed in
2008 when the firm liquidated a pool hurt by investments in
mortgage securities as property prices declined and credit
markets froze.  William Conway , who founded Carlyle in 1987 with  David Rubenstein  and  Daniel D’Aniello , said in December the company is
gearing up for a public share sale to amass permanent capital
and contend with the growing challenge of raising money for
buyout funds. The IPO filing may occur late this year with a
sale in 2012, according to people briefed on the matter, who
asked not to be identified because the plans are private.  Gleacher & Company Inc. and Seward & Kissel LLP served as
financial and legal advisers to ESG, respectively. Simpson
Thacher & Bartlett LLP served as legal adviser to Carlyle. All
three firms are based in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  