-- 
CBO Chief Says U.S. Debt Default Could Cost Taxpayers Billions

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-06-14T17:03:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/cbo-chief-says-u-s-debt-default-could-cost-taxpayers-billions.html
A U.S. government default on its
debts would be a “dangerous gamble” that could easily cost
taxpayers billions of dollars, the head of the  Congressional
Budget Office  said today.  Doug Elmendorf told reporters that if the investors who buy
federal debt begin demanding even modestly higher interest
rates, to compensate for additional risk, it could quickly add
more than $100 billion to the interest payments the government
must make on its debt.  “It is a dangerous gamble because any government that has
borrowed as much as ours has borrowed, and will need to borrow
as ours will need to borrow, cannot take the views of its
creditors lightly,” Elmendorf said today at a breakfast in
 Washington  sponsored by the Christian Science Monitor. “Even a
small increase in the perceived risk of  Treasury securities 
would be very expensive for the country.”  If  interest rates  increased by 10 basis points, it would
add $130 billion to interest payments over the next 10 years,
Elmendorf said.  A bipartisan group of lawmakers is set to meet again today
behind closed doors to hash out a deficit-reduction plan ahead
of an Aug. 2 deadline to raise the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling.
The group, led by Vice President  Joe Biden , is set to meet three
times this week as lawmakers pick up the pace of negotiations.
Elmendorf wouldn’t say whether his agency is examining proposals
being considered by the group.  The economic impact of any deficit-reduction plan will
depend in part on how quickly changes are phased in, Elmendorf
said, saying that if lawmakers cut too much too soon, it could
damage the recovery.  “We think that cuts in  government spending  or increasing
taxes in the next few years would reduce economic activity and
employment relative to what would otherwise occur,” Elmendorf
said. “At the same time, we think that reductions in government
spending or increases in taxes later in the decade would hold
down interest rates and increase confidence today in a way that
would increase output and employment. That may sound like a
contradiction, but it is not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
Or  bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  