-- 
CFTC May Delay Until December Dodd-Frank Swap Regulations Slated for July

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-06-14T17:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/cftc-may-delay-until-december-dodd-frank-swap-regulations-slated-for-july.html
Rules scheduled to take effect in
mid-July for the $601 trillion swaps market would be delayed
until as late as the end of the year under a proposal by the
U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission .  The agency’s commissioners voted 5-0 today to propose
“temporary relief” from some requirements set to be in place
on July 16, a year from the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act. The
delay would give the CFTC more time to write dozens of rules
aimed at reducing risk and boosting transparency after largely
unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  “Some might ask: why six months? Six months will provide
the commission with the opportunity to re-examine the status of
final rulemaking in light of the changed regulatory landscape at
the time,”  Gary Gensler , CFTC chairman, said at the meeting in
 Washington . The proposal is open to 14 days of public comment
before it is finalized.  Under the proposal, Dodd-Frank provisions scheduled to take
effect July 16 and that refer to agency rules that haven’t been
finalized would be delayed until those rules are adopted, though
not later than Dec. 31. The agency’s commissioners also could
decide to push the deadline into 2012 if they find that more
time is needed, according to the CFTC.  Gensler today set forth a possible timetable for finishing
the Dodd-Frank rules by the end of the year. For example, he
said, commissioners may begin in July the process of finalizing
rules designed to combat manipulative trading and for reporting
standards for large traders. In September the agency could move
toward completing rules related to clearinghouses and business
conduct standards, he said.  Full Agenda  The CFTC scheduled its next meeting for July 7.  “I think it’s doable, but it’s a lot on our agenda,”
Gensler said. “We might be looking at meetings that have three
and four and five rules per meeting.”  A second part of today’s proposal is designed to
temporarily allow financial and energy swaps to continue to be
traded directly between buyers and sellers after the July 16
deadline written into the law. Dodd-Frank seeks to have most
swaps guaranteed by clearinghouses that stand between
counterparties and traded on exchanges or other venues.  The six-month delay is arbitrary and may confuse
participants in the swap market,  Scott O’Malia , a Republican
commissioner, said at the meeting.  ‘Not Sufficient’  “A six-month timeline is not sufficient to provide for a
seamless transition until final commission rules are
implemented,” he said, while voting in support of the proposal.  The commissioners voted 3-2 against a change in the
proposal that would have removed the six-month time period for
the delay and postponed the measures until rules are finalized
by the agency.  The CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission  have faced
calls from members of Congress and the financial industry to
provide legal certainty to contracts that occur after July 16
and before the final rules are implemented.  “It’s a big practical concern,”  Willa Cohen Bruckner ,
partner at  Alston & Bird LLP , said in an interview before the
meeting. “Legal uncertainty always comes with the chance it
will reduce business.”  The CFTC proposal wouldn’t apply to futures, options on
futures or transactions by retail customers in foreign
currencies or other commodities.  The SEC, which has authority over security-based swaps,
will publish guidance on which rules take effect on July 16 and
will provide “temporary relief” from some provisions, the
agency said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  