-- 
Chicken Breeders Face Tax-Cut Hawks in Senate Ethanol Vote

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 
2011-06-14T15:48:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/chicken-breeders-face-tax-cut-hawks-in-senate-ethanol-showdown.html
A vote in the U.S. Senate today is
pitting corn growers against chicken farmers, anti-tax purists
against anti-spending advocates, and Democrats and Republicans
against members of their own parties.  Senator  Tom Coburn ’s attempt to eliminate tax breaks and
tariffs that benefit the ethanol industry will place his
colleagues in the middle of a political fight over corn-based
energy that has fermented for years. Coburn is bringing another
quarrel to a boil -- his feud with  Grover Norquist , president of
 Americans for Tax Reform , a Washington group that has persuaded
40 of 47 Republican senators to sign its no-tax-increase pledge.  The legislation on the Senate floor, an economic
development bill, is unlikely to become law. Further, Republican
opposition to eliminating a tax cut and Democratic irritation
with the procedural maneuver Coburn used to force a vote could
make it difficult to win the 60 votes needed to overcome a
parliamentary obstacle. The vote is set to occur at 2:15 p.m.  The Obama administration opposes Coburn’s proposal, White
House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters today.  “We are for reforming it but we are not for repealing
it,” he said.  Eliminating Tax Breaks  Lobbyists and members of Congress are watching the fate of
Coburn’s amendment as a signal for whether the Oklahoma
Republican can persuade members of his own party to declare that
eliminating a tax break isn’t always equivalent to a tax
increase. If Coburn succeeds, it would be easier to attack other
tax breaks in a similar way or pare such breaks to reduce the
federal budget deficit.  “If there are Republicans who break with Grover Norquist’s
position, I think that’s an important thing,” said  Clint Stretch , managing principal of  tax policy  at Deloitte Tax LLP in
 Washington . “I think it signals a willingness on their part to
have the fight with him over whether every tax expenditure is a
legitimate reduction in effective  tax rate , or whether there are
some that should be regarded the way they regard spending
programs.”  Norquist’s group considers voting for Coburn’s amendment a
pledge violation unless senators also vote for a proposal by
Senator Jim DeMint, a South Carolina Republican, which would
eliminate the ethanol usage mandate and repeal the estate tax.
It was unclear yesterday whether the Senate would vote on
DeMint’s amendment.  “If that’s going to be their interpretation, it’s going to
make that pledge pretty meaningless, I think, in the future,”
said Senator John Thune, a South Dakota Republican who opposes
Coburn’s amendment. “That would mean I could go down and vote
for something, as long as I offer another amendment over here.”  Net Tax Increase  Ryan Ellis, the tax policy director at Americans for  Tax
Reform , said that although the group opposes the ethanol tax
credit, it also rejects Coburn’s amendment as written because it
would be a net tax increase.  The second-ranking Republican in the Senate,  Jon Kyl  of
 Arizona , said yesterday he doesn’t consider his support for
Coburn’s amendment as a violation of his no-tax-increase pledge.  “It’s bad policy, regardless of how much money is
involved,” Kyl said.  Coburn’s proposal, which he has pitched as a “big step
toward restoring fiscal sanity,” would eliminate the ethanol
tax credit of 45 cents a gallon as well as a tariff on imported
ethanol. The tax credit, estimated by the congressional Joint
Committee on Taxation to cost the Treasury $4.9 billion for
2011, expires at the end of the year. Industry groups and farm-
state senators such as Republican  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa  have
supported proposals to change the credit so its value depends on
the price of oil.  Coburn worked with Democrats last year on a fiscal
commission set up by President Barack Obama and in an informal
Senate group this year to find ways to reduce the federal  budget
deficit . He has endorsed an approach to  deficit reduction  that
would include cuts in spending and tax breaks as a way to garner
bipartisan support.  Coburn Allies  By choosing ethanol as the first test case for his
challenge to Norquist, Coburn stepped into a policy fight where
he has a range of allies. They include environmental groups that
question the benefits of corn-based ethanol, small-government
groups that call the tax credit wasteful, and animal producers
that compete for corn.  “Symbolically and psychologically, this vote is very
important, because I think it might be the death knell” for the
ethanol aid, said Mary Colville, director of government
relations at the  National Chicken Council . “We’re hoping.”  Asked at a press conference today whether he supports the
Coburn language and would consider bringing it up in the  House
of Representatives , Speaker  John Boehner  did not rule out the
idea.  “Clearly there’s a big debate here on  Capitol Hill  about
what to do with ethanol, and I think that the ethanol credit is
due to expire at the end of the year,” the Ohio Republican told
reporters. “Some members will want to take action earlier.
We’re going to consider the views of all of our members. But
clearly, I think changes are on the way.”  ‘A Bit Optimistic’  Senator Mike Johanns of Nebraska, who was agriculture
secretary under President  George W. Bush  and who opposes
Coburn’s proposal as in his view it would end the ethanol credit
too abruptly, said he considered that “it was always a bit
optimistic to think that there were 60 votes there.”  “Over the past decade, really, the United States Congress
has sent a signal to the ethanol industry: grow, develop,
expand, build plants,” he said. “And many did.”  If Coburn’s measure wins enough support on a bill that
isn’t advancing, it becomes a revenue-raising provision that can
appear in other bills, said Hazen Marshall, a former Republican
Senate aide who is a lobbyist at  The Nickles Group  in
Washington.  “If it shows that it has a lot of political support, then
it ends up on more and more lists,” said Marshall, whose
clients include  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   Whether Coburn’s amendment succeeds or not, the vote will
send a signal about how Congress will examine tax expenditures
and energy policy, said Steve Ellis, vice president of Taxpayers
for Common Sense, a Washington group supporting Coburn that is
opposed to what it calls wasteful subsidies.  “This is not the end of the game, no matter what,” he
said. “It’s not the end of the game on tax reform. It’s not the
end of the game on ethanol.”  The economic development bill is S. 782.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net 
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  