-- 
Chile May Slow Pace of Rate Increases as Growth Eases, Helping Tame Price

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-06-14T15:39:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/chile-may-slow-pace-of-rate-increases-as-growth-eases-helping-tame-prices.html
Chile ’s central bank probably will
slow the pace of interest rate increases today as declining
inflation expectations and moderating economic growth help keep
consumer price pressures in check.  The five-member board, led by bank President Jose De Gregorio, will increase the benchmark rate by a quarter-point to
5.25 percent, according to 15 of 19 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Two analysts forecast a fourth-straight half-point
rate increase while two others forecast a pause.  Since policy makers’ May meeting, analysts surveyed monthly
by the central bank have lowered their estimates for inflation
this year and next while also cutting their 2012 and 2013 gross
domestic product forecasts after reports showed year-on-year
growth eased to 6.3 percent in April. Central bank board members
last month characterized their 5 percent policy rate as closer
to a level that strikes a balance between economic growth and
inflation.  “In the previous minutes, the central bank implied that
the neutral rate might be lower, which suggests that they are
getting closer to the end of their hiking cycle,” Katia Diaz,
an economist at 4Cast Inc. in  New York , said in an e-mail
response to questions. Diaz estimates that the benchmark rate
could close the year at 5.5 percent.  The peso rose 0.3 percent to 466.45 per  U.S. dollar  at
11:31 a.m. New York time today, boosting its 12-month rally to
15 percent, the best performance among the seven major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Not Overheating’  Building on a 5.2 percent expansion in 2010, the $203
billion economy grew 9.8 percent in the first quarter from the
previous year, when Chile was recovering from an 8.8-magnitude
earthquake that struck Feb. 27, 2010.  By April, with borrowing costs at a two-year high, growth,
as measured by the IMACEC economic activity indicator, rose less
than the expected 6.9 percent by 12 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “The economy is in a stage of major recovery and we’re not
overheating,”  Rodrigo Aravena , chief economist at Banchile
Inversiones, said via telephone the day the bank posted the
economic report.  Chile’s unemployment rate unexpectedly fell in the three
months through April to 7 percent from 7.3 percent through
March, the National Statistics Institute said in a May 31
report. Annual salary increases slowed in April to 5.9 percent
from 6.3 percent in March, the institute said June 7.  Six-month breakeven inflation, which reflects views of
average price increases, fell seven basis points to 4.13 percent
the day after the bank published the economic activity report.
Breakeven inflation was 4.37 percent at 9:05 a.m. today.  ‘Resolve’  Economists reduced annual inflation estimates for year-end
to 4.2 percent in a June 10 central bank survey from 4.3 percent
in the May survey and 4.4 percent in April.  The central bank targets annual inflation of 3 percent with
a 1 percentage point margin of error over two years.  Inflation estimates have declined on higher lending rates,
government efforts to cut planned spending by 0.4 percent of
gross domestic product this year and weaker global price
pressures, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told reporters in
Santiago June 2.  “Coupled with a growing economy that was creating jobs, we
previously experienced price rises,” Larrain said. “Today
we’re seeing an improved inflation outlook thanks to the resolve
of the central bank and the government, which tightened its
belt, and a decrease in some international prices.”  ‘Could Be Pauses’  Economists in the bank’s June 10 survey cut their 2012 and
2013  GDP growth forecasts  to 5.3 percent and 5.0 percent
respectively from 5.5 percent and 5.1 percent in April. They
held their 2011 GDP estimate at 6.3 percent in the most recent
survey.  Bloomberg’s commodity index, which calculates the mean of
indexes including energy, grains, food, precious metals and
livestock, has declined 4.3 percent from the beginning of March
through yesterday’s close.  Consumer prices rose 0.4 percent in May from the previous
month and 3.3 percent from last year, the National Statistics
Institute reported June 8. Core consumer prices, which exclude
fuel and produce, rose 0.3 percent in May from April.  The central bank, which has raised lending costs in 11 of
the past 12 monthly meetings, is unlikely to continue with half-
point increases unless inflationary risks increase,  De Gregorio 
said May 20 speech in Santiago.  “No scenario can be ruled out,” De Gregorio said about
monetary policy. “It’s probable that in future meetings the
magnitude will be lower, and there even could be pauses.”  Policy makers haven’t finished raising rates this year,
which at 5 percent are the fourth-highest among major Latin
American economies, the central bank said in a statement
accompanying its May meeting.  Among the major Latin American countries that target
inflation, Chile along with  Brazil ,  Peru  and  Colombia  have all
raised borrowing costs four times in 2011 while  Mexico  has
paused since 2009.  The neutral rate could be lower than in the past as
countries like the U.S. and  Japan  keep lending costs near zero,
policy makers said at their May meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  