-- 
Chile Slows Pace of Interest Rate Increases as 5.25% Nears ‘Neutral Level’

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-06-15T13:09:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/chile-raises-key-interest-rate-to-5-25-slowing-pace-on-economy-prices.html
Chilean policy makers yesterday
slowed the pace of interest-rate increases as growth in  South
America ’s fifth-biggest economy eases and inflation expectations
decline.  The central bank’s five-member policy board, led by bank
President Jose De Gregorio, raised the overnight rate by a
quarter-point to 5.25 percent, matching the forecast of 16 of 19
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Two analysts expected a fourth
straight half-point increase and one forecast a pause.  Economists surveyed earlier this month by the central bank
lowered their estimates for inflation this year and next while
also cutting their 2012 and 2013 gross domestic product
forecasts after a report showed that year-on-year growth eased
to 6.3 percent in April. After policy makers raised the
overnight rate by a half-point at their May 12 meeting, they
characterized their 5 percent policy rate as closer to a level
that strikes a balance between economic growth and inflation.  “Considering that we’re arriving at a neutral level, there
could be one or two additional increases,” said Cristobal Doberti, chief economist at Bice Inversiones in Santiago who
correctly forecasted the bank’s decision. “We can’t rule out
another quarter-point increase in the next meeting.”  Chile ’s demand, activity and labor market reflect a
vigorous economy, the central bank said in the statement
accompanying yesterday’s decision.  Growth, Peso  The $203 billion economy expanded 9.8 percent in the three
months through March from the previous year, its fastest
quarterly growth since 1995. In the first quarter last year,
Chile was recovering from the Feb. 27, 8.8-magnitude earthquake
that caused an estimated $30 billion of damage.  Growth in April, as measured by the IMACEC economic
activity indicator, rose less than the 6.9 percent forecast by
12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Chile’s gross domestic
product will rise 6.2 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, according to the median estimate of 70 economists in a
June 10 central bank survey.  The peso has gained 14 percent in the past 12 months, the
best performance against the dollar among the seven major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Chile’s currency has declined 0.4 percent since Jan. 3,
when the central bank announced plans to buy $12 billion in U.S.
dollars to limit the peso’s gains and increase international
reserves.  Policy Options  After last month’s half-point increase, policy makers said
they would only sustain that pace if inflationary pressures
increased.  “Most probably, future increases will be carried out more
gradually and pauses will be seen,” central bank board member
Enrique Marshall said in prepared remarks posted on the bank’s
website May 23. “Movements similar to those of previous months
can’t be ruled out if inflationary risks intensify.”  The central bank “in the most probable scenario” will
need to continue raising  interest rates  depending on economic
conditions, according to yesterday’s statement.  Chile’s one-year interest-rate swaps, which reflect
traders’ views of future rate decisions, fell two basis points,
or 0.02 percent point, to 5.65 percent at 9:04 a.m. New York
time.  Consumer prices rose 3.2 percent in April from the previous
year and 3.3 percent in May, within the central bank’s target
range of 2 percent to 4 percent.  “Annual registers of CPI inflation have stayed around 3
percent and core inflation registers remain contained,”
according to policy makers’ statement. “Private inflationary
expectations show a decline, although some of them remain above
the target.”  ‘Under Control’  Annual inflation will quicken to 3.5 percent in 12 months
before slipping to 3.35 percent in two years, according to the
median of 57 traders and investors in a June 8 central bank
survey. Traders estimated annual inflation would reach 3.7
percent in a year in the previous survey published in May.  Two-year breakeven inflation, which reflects views of
average price increases, was little changed at 3.55 percent at
9:06 a.m. New York time. The rate was 3.61 percent the day
before the May meeting.  Inflation estimates have declined on higher borrowing
costs, government efforts to cut planned spending by 0.4 percent
of gross domestic product this year and weaker global price
pressures, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told reporters in
Santiago June 2.  Bloomberg’s commodity index, which calculates the mean of
indexes including energy, grains, food, precious metals and
livestock, has declined 4.3 percent from the beginning of March.  Lower inflation expectations give the central bank leeway
to reduce the pace of rate increases, which will help prevent
the peso from appreciating further, the minister said.  “The main philosophy behind a quarter-point increase is
that the bank still considers inflation to be under control,”
 Alfredo Coutino , Latin America director at Moody’s Analytics,
said in a June 13 telephone yesterday from  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania , after forecasting a half-point increase. “It’s
saying, ‘We don’t have problems with inflation now because it’s
close to the target.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  