-- 
Chinese Drywall Supplier to Pay $54 Million to Settle Homeowners’ Claims

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-06-14T21:56:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/chinese-drywall-supplier-banner-agrees-to-pay-54-million-to-settle-claims.html
Banner Supply Co.  agreed to pay
about $55 million to settle some claims by homeowners over
allegedly defective Chinese drywall products.  Under the federal court settlement in  New Orleans , Banner
Supply will deposit the money into an escrow account to resolve
nationwide claims that drywall the company imported from  China 
contained toxins that corroded electrical wiring and fixtures
and sickened residents.  “It is not enough to compensate anybody for damages and
wrongs that have been done to them, but it is a step in the
right direction,” Arnold Levin, a lawyer for homeowners who
sued Banner Supply and other companies that sold tainted
drywall, said today in an interview.  “We are settling this matter to bring a resolution for our
customers and to allow the homeowners to fix their homes,”
 Michael Peterson , a lawyer for closely held Banner Supply, said
in a statement.  The accord was announced today before U.S. District Judge
 Eldon Fallon  in New Orleans, who is overseeing thousands of
suits filed over the contaminated drywall that have been
consolidated for pre-trial evidence gathering.  Other Settlements  More than 1.1 million sheets of harmful Chinese drywall
were used in  Louisiana  rebuilding projects after hurricanes
Katrina and Rita struck in 2005, state Attorney General James Caldwell has said.  The toxins in homes with the drywall may include sulfur
dioxide, formaldehyde and hydrogen sulfide, lawyers for
homeowners have said.  Other drywall suppliers, such as Knauf Group and
 Interior/Exterior Building Supply Ltd.  have agreed to resolve
some homeowners’ claims over the faulty building materials
during the past year.  Knauf Plasterboard Tianjin Co., one of the company’s units,
agreed to help repair 300 homes in  Alabama , Florida, Louisiana
and  Mississippi  while Interior/Exterior Building Supply
officials agreed to pay $8 million in cash and assign
$72 million in insurance rights to consumers who allege the
defective drywall ruined their homes.  Russ Herman , a lawyer for homeowners covered by the Knauf
settlement in October, estimated repairs to a 2,500 square foot
home would cost $60 a foot. With $8.50 per square foot paid to
plaintiffs for temporary relocation, the cost for each home
might be $171,000, he said in court in October.  700 Homeowners  Lawyers for consumers and Banner Supply said today that
four insurers would be paying the settlement of the drywall
cases, which covers as many as 700  Florida  homeowners.  Fallon said today’s settlement is part of an effort to
resolve all the drywall cases gathered before him.  “As I have said before, the way you eat an elephant is one
bite at a time,” the judge said at the hearing, according to a
transcript.  The consolidated case is In re Chinese-Manufactured Drywall
Products Liability Litigation, 2:09-md-02047, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Allen M. Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at  allenmct@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  