-- 
China’s May Home Sales Value Rises 17% as Developers Release New Projects

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-14T08:21:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/china-s-may-home-sales-value-rises-17-as-developers-release-new-projects.html
China ’s May home sales transaction
value rose 17 percent from April as developers marketed more
residential projects during the Labor Day long weekend even as
the government maintained its housing curbs.  The value of homes sold increased to 380.9 billion yuan
($58.8 billion) from 324.9 billion yuan in April, based on the
difference between the statistics bureau’s data for the first
five and four months. The five-month data, which doesn’t break
down individual months, was reported today along with inflation.  “Home sales in May rebounded because developers launched
more projects in the market, but the increased inventory will
add pressure for them in coming months” as supply of homes
exceeds demand, said Jinsong Du, an analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG in  Hong Kong . “The data showed new property and home
construction slowed in May, which signals developers don’t have
a positive outlook for the market.”  The central bank today increased banks’ reserve ratio
requirements for the ninth time since October following the
property and inflation data. The government said last month it
will maintain curbs after raising the minimum down payment for
second-home purchases this year and introducing residential
property taxes in Shanghai and Chongqing.  Greentown China Holdings Ltd. (3900) ’s contracted home sales year
to date was 17 billion yuan, less than expected, RTHK reported
yesterday, citing the company’s Chief Executive Officer Shou Bainian. The Hangzhou-based developer is “unsure” about
achieving the sales target for 2011, RTHK said, citing Shou.  Preliminary Effects  Transaction values declined 21 percent in April from March
following the housing measures, prompting the statistics bureau
to say last month that the curbs have achieved “preliminary
effects.”  Home sales values climbed 16 percent from January to May to
1.57 trillion yuan, while all property transactions amounted to
1.86 trillion yuan, 18 percent higher than the previous year,
the statistics bureau said today.  The measure tracking property stocks on the Shanghai
Composite Index extended gains after the data, rising 3.7
percent at the 3:00 p.m. close, the most among five industry
groups on the benchmark gauge. The advance in the property index
was the most since Jan. 21. The central bank announced a half
percentage point increase in the reserve requirement after the
close, taking the ratio to a record 21.5 percent for the
nation’s biggest lenders starting June 20.  Real Estate Investment  China’s investment in real estate rose 35 percent to 1.87
trillion yuan in the first five months, according to the
government data today.  New property construction climbed 24 percent in the first
five months to 761.2 million square meters, according to the
statistics bureau.  China’s inflation accelerated to 5.5 percent in May, the
fastest pace in almost three years, and industrial output grew
more than economists forecast. The annual gain in consumer
prices matched the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. Production rose 13.3 percent last month, the
statistics bureau also said in Beijing today. That compared with
a median 13.1 percent forecast.  April new home prices increased in all but three of the 70
Chinese cities monitored by the government. The national
statistics bureau is scheduled to report May’s home price data
on June 18.  Nationwide prices rose 0.5 percent in May, the ninth
consecutive month of gains, as smaller cities withstood
government curbs,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s biggest
real estate website, said on June 1.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  