-- 
China Raises Reserve Ratio After Industrial Production Outpaces Estimates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-14T10:33:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/china-s-inflation-accelerates-to-5-5-.html
China  ordered lenders to set aside
more cash as reserves after inflation accelerated to the fastest
pace in almost three years in May and industrial production rose
more than estimates.  A half percentage point increase announced by the central
bank today and effective June 20 will take the ratio to a record
21.5 percent for the biggest lenders. The move was hours after 
data showing the inflation rate climbed to 5.5 percent.  Signs the world’s second-biggest economy is maintaining
momentum after increases in borrowing costs and curbs on real
estate may have encouraged policy makers to add to tightening
measures. At the same time, weakness in the global economy and
data yesterday showing slower bank lending and money-supply
growth may make a decision on further raising  interest rates  a
tougher call.  “Growth is moderating in response to recent policy
measures, but at a very gradual pace, with little to suggest
that Beijing needs to worry about a hard landing in coming
months,” said  Brian Jackson , an emerging-market strategist at
Royal Bank of  Canada . “Headline measures of inflation are above
Beijing’s comfort level, with risks skewed to the upside.”  Jackson sees the key one-year lending rate rising by a
quarter percentage point by the end of this month, with another
move in the third quarter.  Swaps, Bonds  China’s interest-rate swaps surged and bonds slumped after
the central bank announcement.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, jumped 0.08
percentage point to 3.58 percent as of 4:15 p.m. in  Shanghai ,
the biggest increase since March 21.  The yield on the 3.94 percent government bond due January
2021 climbed five basis points to 3.93 percent, the largest rise
since April 26. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index earlier
closed 1.1 percent higher.  Today’s reserve-ratio increase “was quite a surprise but
the central bank may be concerned about rising inflation
expectations,” said Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist with
Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “It may also indicate that there
have been inflows of foreign exchange especially from the  trade
surplus  which was above $10 billion in April and May.”  Government Target  Lu estimates today’s move will drain about 370 billion yuan
($57 billion) from the banking system.  China has raised interest rates four times since September
and allowed the yuan to gain about 1.6 percent against the
dollar this year. Inflation has exceeded the government’s 4
percent target each month this year as companies including
McDonald’s Corp. boost prices.  Still, the pace of inflation remains the slowest of the
so-called BRIC nations, with the latest data showing annual
rates of 6.6 percent for  Brazil , 9.6 percent for  Russia  and 9.1
percent for  India . China’s peak this year may be “slightly
above” 6 percent in June, Bank of America said.  Food prices in China rose 11.7 percent in May from a year
earlier as pork costs surged and vegetable prices rebounded late
in the month, the statistics bureau said today. Low-income
nations from India to  Algeria  are struggling with food prices
that climbed to a record in February according to a United
Nations gauge. The Food and Agricultural Organization index was
up 37 percent in May from a year earlier.  Inflation Expectations  “Inflation pressure is still large,”   Li Daokui , an
academic adviser to the People’s Bank of China, said on his
 microblog  today. “My personal view is that the policy focus
should be on considering raising the deposit rate to adjust
inflation expectations.”  China’s producer prices rose a more-than-estimated 6.8
percent in May and non-food inflation accelerated to 2.9 percent,
the fastest pace in at least six years, today’s data showed.  Industrial output gained 13.3 percent last month from a
year earlier compared with April’s 13.4 percent expansion.
Retail sales, which are boosted by inflation, rose 16.9 percent
after a 17.1 percent gain in April.  Fixed-asset investment excluding rural households expanded
25.8 percent in the first five months of the year, up from 25.4
percent in January-through-April.  The government is weighing the threat to growth from
tightening measures against the danger that rising food and
housing costs may fuel social instability. In March, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said a combination of inflation, corruption, and the gap
between rich and poor could “even affect the government’s hold
on power.”  Signs of unrest include clashes involving migrant street
vendors in Zengcheng, Guangdong, this month and riots last month
in Inner Mongolia. The government has detained activists this
year after calls for so-called “jasmine” rallies, inspired by
revolts in the  Middle East  and North Africa.  -- Zheng Lifei, Zhang Dingmin. With assistance from  Michael Munoz , Shamim Adam, Victoria Ruan, Nerys Avery,  Ben Richardson ,
Sophie Leung and Michelle Yun. Editors: Nerys Avery, Paul
Panckhurst.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  