-- 
China, Kazakhstan to Cooperate on Nuclear, Alternative Energy, Pipelines

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-14T10:14:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/china-kazakhstan-to-expand-energy-relations-pledge-regional-coordination.html
(Corrects sixth paragraph to say  China  is Russia’s biggest
trading partner.)  China and  Kazakhstan  agreed to
cooperate on nuclear and alternative energy including solar and
wind power as the countries deepened bilateral ties and pledged
to coordinate on global and regional issues.  Both countries will also ensure “smooth” construction of
a proposed expansion of cross-border oil and natural gas
pipelines, according to a joint statement posted on the website
of China’s Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  today. Kazakhstan holds
about 3 percent of the world’s oil reserves, according to BP Plc.  The two sides agreed to cooperate in areas including energy,
resources, technology and healthcare following Chinese President
Hu Jintao’s state visit to Astana yesterday. China and
Kazakhstan also agreed to swap about $1 billion of yuan for
tenge as the countries reduce the use of dollars in bilateral
trade over the next three years.  Kazakhstan will start supplying uranium tablets to China
this year, President Nursultan Nazarbayev told reporters. China
Guangdong Nuclear Power Group will expand nuclear cooperation
with Kazakhstan, according to agreements signed in February.
China National Petroleum Corp., the country’s biggest energy
company, has investments in the Central Asian nation.  Hu, on an official tour of three nations including  Russia 
and  Ukraine , agreed with Nazarbayev to double bilateral trade to
$40 billion by 2015, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  The president is scheduled to arrive in Russia, whose
biggest trading partner is China, tomorrow, according to
Assistant Foreign Minister Cheng Guoping. The two countries are
in talks to supply 68 billion cubic meters a year of natural gas
to China. Pricing differences have held up plans to build gas
pipelines that have been discussed for more than a decade.  Energy cooperation between China and Russia is “unique,”
Xinhua reported yesterday, citing Russian Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko. There is room for further partnership in electricity,
energy-equipment manufacturing, coal, and renewable and clean
energy, he was quoted as saying.  -- Wang Ying . Editors: Ryan Woo, Indranil Ghosh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 