-- 
China Inflation Heading for 6% Shows Danger for Wen Extending Rate Pause

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-15T10:34:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/china-inflation-heading-for-6-shows-danger-for-wen-extending-rate-pause.html
China ’s inflation pressures have
yet to be contained by four interest-rate increases since
September, underscoring the danger of any extended policy
pause as bad weather threatens to further drive up food costs.  The central bank yesterday increased banks’ reserve
requirements to drain cash from the economy after consumer
prices rose 5.5 percent in May, the biggest gain since 2008.
Inflation may reach 6 percent this month, according to banks
from Societe Generale SA to UBS AG.  Premier Wen Jiabao’s government has surprised analysts
at banks including  Barclays Capital  by pausing on  interest
rates  for 10 weeks, the longest gap this year. Officials may
be reviewing signs of weakening global growth after the U.S.
unemployment rate surpassed 9 percent and manufacturing
cooled across  Asia .  “There’s still a long way to go” to contain prices,
Shen Jianguang, chief economist for greater China at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd. said in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“We need to see a slowdown in the economy,” said Shen, who
previously worked for  International Monetary Fund . He
predicts two more rate increases this year.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index fell 0.9 percent today, the
biggest decline in a week, after gaining 1.1 percent
yesterday on stronger-than-forecast industrial production
data for May. The market was closed when the central bank
announced the reserve-ratio increase yesterday.  Rate Forecasts  Nomura Holdings Inc. said yesterday that interest rates
may rise this month and again in the third quarter. Barclays
sees one more increase this year, either in June or July. The
half percentage point boost to banks’ reserve ratios will
take effect on June 20.  A favorable so-called base effect may help to limit
inflation in the second half of the year.  Still, stocks are unlikely to stage “a sustained
rebound until the market sees clear signals that inflation
has peaked,” said Hong Kong-based Jing Ulrich, chairman of
global markets for China at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “Extreme
weather” could delay a moderation in inflation by fueling
food-price gains, she said.  A drought along the Yangtze river has been followed by
fatal floods. Food costs rose 11.7 percent in May from a year
earlier as pork prices climbed.  Global Challenge  Low-income nations from India to  Algeria  are struggling
with food prices that climbed to a record in February
according to a United Nations gauge. The Food and
Agricultural Organization index was up 37 percent in May from
a year earlier.  China has so far boosted interest rates every other
month from mid-October, with the most recent increase taking
effect on April 6. Officials have also increased banks’
reserve requirements to a record and allowed the yuan to gain
about 1.6 percent against the dollar this year.  “I’m reasonably hopeful the Chinese authorities will
move to increase rates,” Stephen Roach, non-executive
chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd., said in an interview in
Shanghai today with Bloomberg Television. “Historically,
inflation has been very destabilizing for China. The
authorities know this.”  Signs of Unrest  While the economy’s expansion is showing signs of
moderating, inflation has risen further above the
government’s 4 percent target.  India ,  Thailand ,  Singapore  and
 Malaysia  also face price pressures even as their industrial
output growth slows or falls.  Wen aims to tame prices and sustain growth to maintain
social stability, with the premier noting in March that
inflation, corruption, and the gap between rich and poor
could “affect the government’s hold on power.”  Signs of social unrest have include clashes involving
street vendors in Zengcheng, Guangdong, this month and riots
last month in Inner Mongolia. The government has also
detained activists after calls for so-called “jasmine”
rallies, inspired by revolts in the  Middle East  and North
Africa.  The jobs created by economic growth forecast by the
 World Bank  at 9.3 percent this year may help the government
to maintain stability.  “The market has been increasingly worried about a hard
landing in China, but the latest data show the economy is
still going strong,” said  Wang Tao , a Beijing-based
economist for UBS. “Hard evidence of a soft landing” was
the heading on a Nomura report.  Fixed-asset investment excluding rural households
expanded 25.8 percent in the first five months of the year,
up from 25.4 percent in January-through-April. Retail sales,
which are boosted by inflation, rose 16.9 percent after a
17.1 percent gain in April.  --Zheng Lifei, with assistance from John Dawson and Sophie
Leung. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Cherian Thomas.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  