-- 
China Stocks Outlook Positive Over 12 Months, UBS’s Tang Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-14T04:31:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/china-stocks-outlook-positive-over-12-months-ubs-s-tang-says.html
John Tang, China strategist at UBS
AG, said he’s positive on China equities in the next 12 months
even as there’s still some “downside.” He spoke in  Hong Kong 
with John Dawson on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up.”  On inflation:  “There’s still some downside on the stock market. On the
one side, we are looking for potential bad numbers today and the
next couple of days. On the other side I think June’s numbers
may become uglier. People need to see the potential peak for
inflation before they can become more comfortable to come back
to the market. We are looking for the peak in June but no one
knows until the time comes.”  On the 12-month outlook:  “For the 12 months from now, we are still positive on
Chinese equities. Earnings are still quite defensive because of
the non-cyclical nature of the H-share compound compared to A
shares. On the other side, valuations look already quite
attractive. This time the problem in  China  is not a demand
problem. It’s a supply and disruption problem and more
importantly, it’s a policy mistake. It’s relatively easy to
correct. The headwind is still going to last for some time but
on the other side we shouldn’t lose hope.”  On investment strategy:  “If you didn’t sell in May, in June it’s actually time to
hold. In the current moment, after the market declined so much,
you need to be a little bit positive and look at the positive
side of it. It’s not a bear market. I’ll buy when other people
are talking about the market and inflation seems able to peak.”  --Zhang Shidong, John Dawson. Editor:  Matthew Oakley   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at  
 dboey@bloomberg.net  