-- 
China Curbs Data Leaks as Market Rises

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-14T07:42:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/china-curbs-data-leaks-as-market-rises.html
China’s crackdown on the leaking of
key economic data is working after inflation figures weren’t
disclosed ahead of the official announcement, analysts said.  “We didn’t see the usual list of numbers circulating,”
said  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at Westpac
Banking Corp. in Sydney. “What we got was what we should have
in the market, which was the market waiting for the numbers and
reacting to the release.”  The country’s benchmark stock index rose as the 5.5 percent
annual inflation gain in May matched the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists, and industrial output
increased more than expected. The Shanghai Composite Index added
27.19, or 1 percent, to 2,727.57 at the 11:30 a.m. local-time
break, the biggest advance since May 31.  Authorities in China, the world’s second-largest economy,
are trying to stop selective disclosure that can disrupt markets
and give an advantage to investors with early access. An
accurate reading for the  consumer price index  was circulated in
the market and press reports before the official release for at
least five of the six months through April.  An employee in the general office’s secretary division of
the National Bureau of Statistics is under judicial
investigation on suspicion of leaking national economic data,
Sheng Laiyun, the bureau spokesman, said after a briefing in
Beijing today, clarifying comments he made during the press
conference when he used a Chinese word that could refer to
either one employee or several.  Condemn Leaks  “The National Bureau of Statistics’ stance is very clear -
to decisively support the relevant departments’ investigation of
the data leaks,” Sheng said. “We believe any illegal behavior
will be punished according to the law.”  Today’s inflation number still spread online minutes ahead
of the official announcement, after a printed release of the
numbers was given to reporters at the bureau’s headquarters
before the briefing. The bureau imposed an embargo for press not
to publish the data before 10 a.m.  Netease, or 163.com, posted the inflation figure more than
eight minutes before the embargoed time, citing the bureau. The
official Xinhua News Agency published the same number at 9:56
a.m. Domestic media in  China  regularly posts key data before the
embargoed time.  The bureau said April 15 it condemned leaks of economic
data after the nation’s first-quarter growth figure and other
monthly economic data including the inflation rate were reported
a day before the official release.  Whispered Numbers  A People’s Bank of China researcher is also being probed
for leaking data, the 21st Century Business Herald said June 8.
The bank has declined to comment on the report and calls made to
its press office today went unanswered.  “Thanks to the arrest of a couple of junior officials in
NBS and the PBOC, there were no ‘whispered numbers’ this time
around, making our lives a bit easier,” Lu Ting, an economist
at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit, wrote in a note
to clients today. Lu forecast a 5.4 percent gain in the consumer
price index for May.  China’s stocks rose even as inflation accelerated to the
fastest pace in almost three years. Industrial output increased
13.3 percent last month, more than the 13.1 percent median
forecast in another Bloomberg poll.  China is ensuring those with access to data now treat it
with the respect it should deserve, Westpac’s Callow said.  “China has shown it can deal with it, and deliver and
handle its data with the required integrity,” he said. “The
market would really be disappointed to see it backsliding from
here.”  --Fan Wenxin. With assistance from Dingmin Zhang and  Kevin
Hamlin . Editors: Neil Western, Nerys Avery  To contact the Bloomberg News Staff on this story:
Fan Wenxin in Shanghai at 
 Wfan19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  