-- 
Citigroup Said to Explore Taking Offices at Manhattan’s World Trade Center

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-06-14T20:32:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/citigroup-said-to-explore-leasing-offices-at-world-trade-center-site.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  is considering
leasing offices at the World Trade Center site in lower
 Manhattan , two people with knowledge of the discussions said.  The third-biggest U.S. lender is exploring a variety of
options and hasn’t decided which building it is interested in,
said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because
the talks are private. Four towers are in progress, including 1
World Trade Center, slated to be the western hemisphere’s
tallest building upon its completion in 2013.  A Citigroup lease would be another victory for the trade
center redevelopment, stalled for years because of indecision on
its design, infighting among stakeholders and a lack of
financing and tenant interest after the financial meltdown. Last
month, Conde Nast Publications Inc. agreed to rent about 1
million square feet (93,000 square meters) at 1 World Trade, and
UBS AG may move staff to 3 World Trade Center from  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , people familiar with the matter said.  “You can’t compare a brand-new building for efficiencies,
systems, amenities, the way you can utilize space, versus an
older one,” said Alan Desino, executive managing director at
the New York offices of Colliers International, a commercial-
property brokerage. “Pricing downtown is still very attractive,
you can lock in 20-plus years in a brand-new building. That’s
why you’re seeing a lot of the seemingly well-entrenched really
wondering if they’re in the best situation.”  Early Stages  Citigroup, which has headquarters at 399 Park Ave. in
midtown Manhattan, is in the early stages of studying its
options, the people with knowledge of the talks said.  The bank also occupies offices at 601 Lexington Ave., a 59-
story Midtown skyscraper known until 2009 as Citigroup Center.
Both buildings are owned by  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP) , the biggest
U.S. office real estate investment trust. Arista Joyner, a
Boston Properties spokeswoman, declined to comment.  “Although we are always in touch with the real estate
community about space that is coming on the market over the next
few years, we have no plans to change our footprint in  New York
City ,”  Shannon Bell , a Citigroup spokeswoman, said in a
telephone interview.  Queens, Tribeca  Citigroup’s offices tend to be close to stations along New
York’s E subway line. Besides the two Midtown buildings, they
include 1 Court Square, the city’s tallest tower outside
Manhattan, in the Long Island City section of Queens, and 388
and 390 Greenwich St. in Manhattan’s Tribeca neighborhood,
formerly headquarters of the Travelers Group insurance unit and
now a trading complex.  The  World Trade Center site  is the southern terminus of the
E line, which runs to Jamaica Center in central Queens.  SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG) , Manhattan’s biggest office landlord,
owns the Greenwich Street buildings as well as 1 Court Square.
 Rick Matthews , an SL Green spokesman, declined to comment.  The Durst Organization, which is responsible for leasing 1
World Trade, is in talks with companies whose space needs “are
in excess of what we have available,” said Tara Stacom, a
broker with Cushman & Wakefield Inc. who represents the
developer. She declined to comment on whether they’re having
discussions with Citigroup.  One World Trade  “One World Trade Center is a building of great interest to
a lot of people, as it was, quite frankly, even before the deal
with  Conde Nast  closed,” she said. “The entire site will
surprise a lot of people come the end of this year in terms of
the announcements, the levels and the number of deals that will
be announced.”  About 1.2 million of the tower’s 3 million square feet are
leased, Stacom said, including an earlier deal with Beijing
Vantone Real Estate Co., a Chinese property firm. Tentative
commitments from federal and New York State governments to take
another 1 million square feet are flexible enough to allow
additional private leasing, she said.  In November, Durst chairman  Douglas Durst  said the state
may not take the space, given its budget problems.  Durst is the equity partner of the  Port Authority  of  New
York  and  New Jersey , which owns the 16-acre site and is
developing 1 World Trade. Silverstein Properties Inc. is
building two towers, 3 and 4 World Trade Center, and has started
foundation work on a third, 2 World Trade, under a lease from
the Port Authority.  Dara McQuillan, a Silverstein spokesman, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  