-- 
Peru Stock Exchange Operator’s Shares Plunge After Colombia Merger Delay

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-06-14T17:48:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/colombia-peru-stock-exchanges-postpone-corporate-merger-1-.html
Shares in the operator of the Lima
stock exchange plunged 11 percent after the company announced a
delay of its merger with its Colombian counterpart to give
Peru’s new government time to consider details of the accord.  Bolsa de Valores de Lima SA (BVLBC1)  fell 11 percent to 10.18 sols
at 1:15 p.m. New York time while  Bolsa de Valores (VALORES)  de Colombia
SA, which operates the Bogota exchange, fell 2 percent to 42.20
pesos, a three-week low.  The BVL and BVC, as the exchanges are known, said in a
joint  statement  yesterday the postponement allows them to
provide information on the project to President-elect Ollanta Humala’s administration “before it is finalized.” The merger
plan won’t be altered, the statement said.  Investors pulled out of Peru’s financial markets the day
after Humala’s election on June 6. The benchmark stock index
plunged a record 12 percent on June 6 on concern Humala, a one-
time ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , would fulfill
pledges he made early in the presidential campaign to boost
government control of the economy.  The delay doesn’t affect integrated  stock trading  between
Colombia, Peru and Chile, known as MILA, which began on May 30.  Kurt Burneo, economic adviser to Humala, said in an
interview June 8 that the MILA integration was done “too
quickly” and the new government may renegotiate parts of the
arrangement if benefits aren’t fairly shared. There is
“asymmetry in the distribution of benefits” between the
countries, he said.  Undisclosed Amount  Bogota-based BVC said in January it was acquiring 64
percent of the BVL for an undisclosed amount and the transaction
would be completed later this year. The combination would create
the fourth-biggest market in  Latin America  after  Brazil ,  Mexico 
and  Chile . The merged exchange aims to boost liquidity, enable
portfolio diversification and create new securities.  “The BVL and BVC reiterate their interest in continuing
the process of merging the two entities and confirm their
confidence that the integration of the exchanges will contribute
in a significant way to the development of capital markets in
Peru and Colombia and in this way to the economic growth of both
countries,” the statement said.  Colombia’s IGBC Index fell 0.2 percent to 14,219.17 at 1:42
p.m. New York time. The Lima General Index rose for the first
time in three days, climbing 0.3 percent to 20,663.56.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  