-- 
Citigroup Is Asked for Data-Breach Details by Connecticut Attorney General

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-06-14T15:46:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/connecticut-seeks-information-from-citigroup-on-data-breach.html
Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen asked  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to provide more information on how a
recent data breach occurred and what is being done to protect
affected customers from fraud.  Citigroup said this month that the account information of
about 1 percent of its Citi-branded North America credit cards
was viewed through unauthorized access to accounts online.  Jepsen said in a statement today that he wrote a letter to
New York-based Citigroup’s Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit 
and its general counsel, Michael Helfer. He requested the
additional information by June 22.  “Critical facts about the intrusion remain unclear,
including details concerning the number and characteristics of
impacted accounts, the cause of the breach, the steps taken to
notify and protect the affected individuals, and the nature of
any procedures adopted to prevent future data breaches,” Jepsen
said in the letter.  Sean Kevelighan, a Citigroup spokesman, said he couldn’t
comment directly on Jepsen’s request.  “Citi immediately rectified the data breach upon
discovery, while also placing internal fraud alerts and
monitoring on all accounts at risk,” Kevelighan said in an e-
mail. “Simultaneously, we began analysis to determine the
precise accounts and type of information accessed.”  Citigroup also notified  law enforcement  and government
officials, Kevelighan said. On June 3, within three weeks, the
bank began to notify clients by letter, most of which included
re-issued credit cards, he said.  “None of the data breached was sufficient to perpetrate
fraud,” Kevelighan said.  Citigroup’s credit card unit is run by Judson Linville, a
former American Express Corp. executive whom Pandit, 54, hired
last September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Freifeld at Manhattan Criminal Court at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  