-- 
Croatia Turns to Deficit, Recession Fight as EU Membership Approval Nears

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-06-14T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/croatia-turns-to-deficit-recession-fight-as-eu-membership-approval-nears.html
The  Croatian government  will slash
the budget below its target and attract more investment to
pull the nation out of a recession as it enters the final
phase of joining the  European Union , Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor said.  After the European Commission’s June 10 recommendation to
wrap up talks and aim for July 2013 entry, Kosor said her
Cabinet will reduce the size of the administration and may
offer more financial incentives to lure businesses from
abroad.  “I’m certain this is the year Croatia will get on the
firm path of recovery,” Kosor, 57, said in a June 13
interview in her office in the capital,  Zagreb . “By
concluding the talks, we have definitely put the hardest, most
complicated job behind us.”  Croatia  is poised to become the second former Yugoslav
republic to join the world’s largest trading bloc after
Slovenia, giving investors more confidence to boost industry
and tourism in the Adriatic Sea country. If approved by the 27
current members, Croatia would lengthen the EU’s reach into
the Balkans region following the bloody civil wars of the
1990s.  The benchmark Crobex stock index is up 6.9 percent since
the beginning of the year, the sixth-best performer in Europe,
according to Bloomberg data. It fell to 2256.99 yesterday,
down 0.63 percent from the previous close.  Kosor is focusing on modernizing Croatia’s communist-era
buildings, streets and utilities after the economy contracted
every year since 2008 following average growth after of 4.6
percent between 2000 and 2007. The economy may expand 1.5
percent this year, the premier said.  ‘New Wind’  Croatia, which seeks to attract 14 billion euros ($20
billion) in investments for infrastructure projects alone,
will experience a “new wind” of foreign direct investment,
which dropped last year to one-third of 2009 inflows, she
said.  A trained lawyer, Kosor rose to the position after former
Premier Ivo Sanader left office without explanation in July
2009. After becoming prime minister, Kosor began an anti-
corruption drive that opened hundreds of cases and eventually
led to Sanader’s arrest on suspicion of abuse of power and
corruption.  Kosor is planning a campaign to gain approval for a
referendum on EU entry that must be held within 30 days of
signing the accession treaty, planned in December. About 62
percent of citizens support membership, according to a Nov. 6
poll by  IPSOS Puls d.d.,  commissioned by the  Foreign Ministry .  ‘No Viable Option’  “I’m convinced that people will vote in favor of EU
entry in the referendum, because Croatia really has no other
viable option,” she said. “Most people understand that cuts
in public spending are necessary, that otherwise we cannot
move forward economically.”  The government has forecast a budget shortfall of 4.2
percent of GDP this year. Cost-cutting plans include closing
some of the roughly 500 local administrative units and
adjusting collective bargaining agreements, Kosor said.  “We can’t have collective bargaining contracts that
promise to deliver the same pay regardless of whether the
economy is growing or contracting,” Kosor said. “We in
Croatia need to work more.”  Unemployment reached 18.2 percent in April and Croatia
has one of the lowest labor-force participation rates in
 Europe , just at 50 percent, according to the  International
Labour Organization  in Geneva. By joining the EU in 2013,
Croatia would gain access to at least 750 million euros of EU
funds channeled into public-works projects.  The EU will want safeguards and see progress in Croatia’s
fight to cut corruption, which Kosor says she welcomes.  ‘Can’t Be Reversed’  “Monitoring is a chance to strengthen our reforms, and
for the citizens to see that time can’t be turned back,”
Kosor said. “The fight against corruption can’t be reversed.
Nothing will ever be the same.”  Kosor faces general elections in the fall. The date will
be set after the formal conclusion of EU talks, probably later
this month. According to an IPSOS Puls pre-election poll on
May 25, the ruling  Croatian Democratic Union  has 22 percent
support, compared with the left-leaning Alliance for Change,
led by the  Social Democrats , which has 38 percent.  “The continuing corruption investigations and trials
will be a huge burden, but I still hope for success. Only the
strong parties are capable of cleaning their own house,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  