-- 
Czech Central Bank Sees Risk of Unjustified Koruna Gains

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-06-14T10:50:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/czech-central-bank-sees-risk-of-unjustified-koruna-gains-1-.html
The Czech koruna faces the risk of
unjustified gains as investors seek “quality assets,” which
may hurt the country’s external balance, the central bank said.  The  Czech Republic  is considered “a developed and
stabilized economy” with “relatively healthy” public finances
compared with some other European countries, the Prague-based
Ceska Narodni Banka said in an update of its financial stability
report published today on its website.  “International investors’ flight into quality and their
hunt for yields may significantly affect the Czech economy,”
the bank said in the report. “International investors’ interest
in koruna assets may cause strong pressures on fundamentally
unjustified koruna appreciation.”  The koruna has gained 3.8 percent to the euro since the
start of the year, the second-best performance among the 25
emerging-markets currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the
Hungarian forint. The central bank didn’t mention specific
koruna rates it would consider as harmful for the economy.  “A longer period of too-quick appreciation could worsen
the external balance of the Czech economy, which is already
showing signs of partial weakening,” the bank said.  The Czech economic revival from a recession is being driven
by foreign demand for its goods, including Skoda Auto AS cars,
as exports account for about 70 percent of gross domestic
product. Companies also supply parts to German manufacturers,
which then sell their products outside the European Union.  GDP rose an annual 2.8 percent in the first quarter,
compared with 2.7 percent in the final three months of 2010,
according to data published June 9. The reading exceeded a 2.5
percent flash estimate on May 13.  Exports and a revival in investments contributed the most
to economic growth in the first quarter, the statistics office
said. Household and government consumption declined as the
Cabinet of Prime Minister Petr Necas trims state spending.  “We have the lowest rates in  Europe  at the moment, and
it’s not a coincidence,” central bank Governor Miroslav Singer
told reporters. “It’s about low inflation pressures and also
about the fact that the koruna has a strengthening tendency.”
Higher  interest rates  would further boost the attractiveness of
koruna investments, he said.  The central bank has kept the benchmark two-week repurchase
rate at 0.75 percent since May 2010 as central banks across
Europe lifted interest rates to curb inflation. Policy makers
moved forward the timing of a rate increase to the fourth
quarter from the first quarter in 2012, reflecting expectations
of more monetary tightening in the euro area, the central bank
said on May 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at   placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  