-- 
Defense of Marriage Law Unconstitutional, Panel of Bankruptcy Judges Rules

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-06-14T22:23:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/defense-of-marriage-law-unconstitutional-panel-of-bankruptcy-judges-rules.html
The ban on federal recognition of
same-sex marriage can’t prevent a gay couple from filing a joint
bankruptcy, a panel of judges ruled, declaring the U.S. Defense
of Marriage Act unconstitutional.  Gene Douglas Balas and Carlos A. Morales were married
legally in California before voters in 2008 passed Proposition
8, which banned same-sex marriages. That makes them, and about
18,000 other gay couples who wed in the state before the ban,
eligible to file bankruptcy together, according to yesterday’s
ruling in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Los Angeles .  “This case is about equality, regardless of gender or
sexual orientation,” according to the decision signed by 20
bankruptcy judges. “In this court’s judgment, no legally
married couple should be entitled to fewer bankruptcy rights
than any other legally married couple.”  The U.S. Defense of Marriage Act bans federal agencies from
recognizing marriages between same-sex couples. The judges, in
their decision yesterday, ruled that the 1996 law violates the
Fifth Amendment of the Constitution by treating married gay
couples differently from married opposite-sex couples.  While two other courts previously allowed same-sex couples
to file joint bankruptcies, this ruling went further, Robert J.
Pfister, an attorney for Balas and Morales, said in a telephone
interview.  ‘Overwhelming’ Evidence  U.S. District Judge Vaughn Walker in San Francisco ruled in
August that there was “overwhelming” evidence that Proposition
8, the 2008 amendment to  California ’s constitution that states
marriage is only between a man and a woman, violates equal
protection rights.  The judge who took over the Proposition 8 case after Walker
retired refused to throw out Walker’s ruling today, rejecting a
request from gay-marriage opponents. Proposition 8 advocates
argued that Walker shouldn’t have been allowed to oversee the
case because he is gay and therefore had a stake in the outcome.  In the bankruptcy case, the judges ruled that it would not
be “fair or rational” to conclude that a gay married couple
that filed a joint bankruptcy had somehow harmed married
heterosexuals.  Balas supplied most of the couple’s income from his
$200,000-a-year job in the financial industry before he was laid
off in March 2009, he said in court records. The couple filed
for bankruptcy in February after exhausting their savings and
retirement accounts.  The Office of the U.S. Trustee, which oversees bankruptcy
cases, asked a judge to throw out the bankruptcy, arguing that
because Balas and Morales are men, the Defense of Marriage Act
prohibits the court from recognizing them as a married couple.  House Lawyer  President  Barack Obama ’s administration stopped defending
the law in courts, saying it unconstitutionally discriminates
against gays and lesbians. That decision prompted House Speaker
 John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, to authorize the House’s top
lawyer to take over that task.  The House Bipartisan Legal Advisory Group, working with the
U.S. Trustee, didn’t intervene in the case though it said it was
considering doing so, according to the opinion issued today.  Michael Steel , a spokesman for Boehner, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  The bankruptcy case is In re Gene Douglas Balas, 11-17831,
U.S Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California (Los
Angeles). The Proposition 8 case is Perry v. Schwarzenegger,
3:09-cv-02292, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 