-- 
Deutsche Bank’s Thailand Head Schmoelz Said to Leave End-June

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   J a m e s   R e g a n
-- 
2011-06-14T04:27:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/deutsche-bank-s-thailand-head-schmoelz-said-to-leave-end-june.html
Manfred Schmoelz,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s
chief country officer for Thailand, will leave the lender at the
end of this month, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  Schmoelz, who has worked for  Germany ’s biggest bank for
about 20 years, has headed the Thai operation since April 2009
after helming corporate banking coverage for Asia Pacific in
Singapore, the person said.  Kathryn Hanes, the Singapore-based spokeswoman for Deutsche
Bank, declined to comment on the matter today. Schmoelz couldn’t
be reached when Bloomberg telephoned the company yesterday and
on June 10.  Schmoelz will join Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc based
in Singapore, according to Finance Asia’s  website . He wants to
return to a coverage role, as well as reuniting with his family,
who remain in  Singapore , Finance Asia said without citing a
source.  Thailand’s central bank dropped Deutsche Bank from its list
of primary dealers for repurchase agreements in May owing to a
regulatory infringement, a Bank of Thailand official, who asked
not to be identified because he’s not authorized to speak on the
matter, told Bloomberg on June 10.  “Other than the bank’s ability to repo specifically with
the BOT, the bank’s government bond trading and other extensive
business activities in Thailand are unaffected,”  Michael West ,
Deutsche Bank’s Hong Kong-based spokesman wrote on June 10 in an
e-mail. “Deutsche Bank continues to be a primary dealer in bond
trading with the BOT.”  Deutsche Bank has operated in  Thailand  since 1978 and has
more than 150 employees in the nation, according to its  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 