-- 
Dollar Declines Against Peers as U.S. Retail Data Reduce Demand for Haven

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-06-14T21:04:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/dollar-drops-as-u-s-retail-sales-declined-less-than-was-forecast-in-may.html
The dollar weakened against the
majority of its most-traded counterparts as U.S. retail sales
fell less than forecast, damping demand for haven assets.  The U.S currency rose against the yen and Swiss franc after
the retail sales report, which followed data this month showing
slowing manufacturing and rising unemployment. Currencies of
commodity-exporting countries, such as the Canadian and
Australian dollars, rose the most against major peers as raw
material prices gained. The euro pared its gain against the
dollar on reports an agreement on a second bailout for Greece
may be delayed.  “The data itself underpins the logic that the U.S.
recovery is modest and gradual,” said  Mark McCormick , a
currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New
York. “A risk-on environment supports selling dollars and
selling yen and purchasing the higher-yielding growth
currencies.”  The dollar fell 0.2 percent to $1.4440 per euro at 5:02
p.m. in New York, from $1.4413 yesterday. It fell as much as 0.6
percent. The greenback appreciated 0.3 percent to 80.49 yen,
from 80.24.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of commodities rose
0.7 percent and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.3
percent.  Swiss Falls  The Swiss franc dropped versus all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg as the government lowered its
forecast for 2012 economic growth and said further currency
appreciation poses risks to its outlook.  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said an agreement
on a second bailout package for  Greece  may be delayed until
July. European leaders planned to reach a consensus for easing
 Europe ’s biggest debt burden before a summit of European Union
leaders on June 23-24.  “You did see the euro sell off slightly on that,” said
 John Doyle , a strategist in Washington at currency-trading firm
Tempus Consulting Inc. “In terms of the euro debt crisis, the
bears are already there.”  European Central Bank Governing Council member  Mario Draghi 
said he shares the ECB’s opposition to a restructuring of Greek
debt.  Draghi Stance  “The ECB is not in favor of restructuring and haircuts”
and it “excludes all concepts that are not purely voluntary,”
Draghi told lawmakers in Brussels at his confirmation hearing
for the ECB presidency today. He added that the “cost of a
default would exceed the benefits” and a “default would not
address the root causes of the crisis.”  China ’s retail sales rose 16.9 percent last month, while
industrial production increased more than economists forecast,
the statistics bureau reported. The 5.5 percent increase in
China’s consumer-price index was the fastest in almost three
years. Lenders were ordered to set aside more cash as reserves.  “If you look at the trade numbers that came out of China
they are still importing quite a bit,” said  Kathy Lien ,
director of currency research with online currency trader GFT
Forex in New York. “That means their demand remains strong and
Aussie and kiwi are natural beneficiaries.”  China’s yuan strengthened, snapping a three-day decline,
after the central bank ordered lenders to set aside more cash as
reserves. The half percentage point increase of the required
reserve ratio announced by the central bank today will be
effective on June 20.  Yuan Path  The People’s Bank of China set the yuan’s reference rate
0.11 percent stronger at 6.4822 per dollar, the biggest rise
since May 25. The yuan isn’t allowed to move more than 0.5
percent on either side of the daily fixing.  Australia ’s dollar rose 0.8 percent to $1.0685 and  New
Zealand ’s dollar, known as the kiwi, added 0.3 percent to 81.81
U.S. cents. The South Pacific nations export raw materials to
China.  Canada ’s dollar, which trades most with the U.S., rose the
most against the dollar among the major currencies.  The loonie advanced 0.8 percent to 96.82 Canadian cents per
 U.S. dollar , the strongest since June 1. Norway’s krone also
rose, gaining 0.5 percent to 5.4066 per dollar.  Oil, which both Canada and Norway export, rose as much as
2.3 percent to $99.54 per barrel.  Carry Trade  The carry trade of using the dollar to buy the krone,
Australian dollar, loonie and New Zealand’s dollar has more than
quadrupled this week and produced a 33 percent return for the
month. In such trades, investors borrow where  interest rates  are
low to purchase the currencies of countries with higher rates.
The Fed’s zero to 0.25 percent overnight lending rate makes the
dollar attractive for such transactions.  Retail purchases in the U.S fell 0.2 percent in May,
following a 0.3 percent increase in April, Commerce Department
figures showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.5 percent
decrease. Wholesale costs in the U.S. rose more than forecast in
May, led by higher prices for fuel, plastics and the fastest
rise in 30 years for apparel and textile costs.  The Bank of  Japan  kept the benchmark overnight rate in a
range of zero to 0.1 percent and left unchanged its 30 trillion
yen ($370 billion) lending facility and 10 trillion yen asset-
buying program.  The yen has declined 4.8 percent this year versus the
currencies of nine other developed nations as measured by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar is down 5.7
percent, while the euro is up 2.6 percent, according to the
index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  