-- 
Tea Party Favorite Bachmann Enters Republican Presidential Race

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-06-14T14:09:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/tea-party-favorite-bachmann-enters-republican-presidential-race.html
U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann , a Minnesota Republican known for her uncompromising
views and firebrand style, said she plans to run for the 2012
Republican presidential nomination.  “I filed my paperwork to seek the office of the presidency
today,” Bachmann, 55, a favorite of Tea Party and anti-abortion
activists, said yesterday during a Republican presidential
debate sponsored by  CNN .  Her filing with the  Federal Election Commission  allows
Bachmann to begin fundraising and other organizational efforts
for a presidential bid. Bachmann said she would “very soon”
formally announce her candidacy.  A knack for grabbing the spotlight catapulted Bachmann, who
won her House seat in 2006, into a frequent guest on cable
television news program, a fundraising dynamo and a Tea Party
heroine.  During the first three months of 2011, Bachmann raised $1.7
million, second only to Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio among House
members, according to the  Center for Responsive Politics , a
Washington-based research group. Most of that money -- $12.8
million -- came in donations of less than $200. She took in
$13.6 million for her 2010 re-election, more than any other
House candidate.  Bachmann had $2.9 million in the bank as of March 31, all
of which could be used for a presidential run.  She has used her platform to advocate for conservative
positions on social and fiscal issues, prodding Republican
leaders not to cooperate with President Barack Obama’s
administration.  “I am willing to fight for what I believe in, and that’s
one thing that people see,” she said an April 29 interview with
Bloomberg News in Manchester,  New Hampshire . “I’m not just
there to go along and get along.”  Bachmann had been measuring support for a run during visits
this year to Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina, states with
early contests in the nomination process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 