-- 
Lebanon Opposition Says New Cabinet May Spark Confrontations

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-06-14T14:58:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/lebanon-opposition-says-new-cabinet-may-spark-confrontations-1-.html
Lebanese opposition leaders said the
new cabinet formed by billionaire  Najib Mikati  may exacerbate
tensions between followers of former prime minister  Rafiq Hariri , and Hezbollah and its allies who now dominate the
government.  The cabinet is a “government of confrontation,” said
Ahmed Fatfat, a member of Hariri’s Future Movement, which is now
led by his son, former Prime Minister Saad Hariri. “This is a
government of one color dominated by Hezbollah” and its
supporters, Fatfat told the Voice of Lebanon radio station,
according to the official National News Agency.  Mikati announced the cabinet yesterday following five
months of negotiations over portfolios. The previous government,
led by Saad Hariri, fell in January amid a dispute with the
Shiite Muslim Hezbollah movement over the United Nations inquiry
into the assassination in 2005 of his father. The cabinet has to
win a vote of confidence from parliament.  “The new cabinet is not coming to make problems -- it’s
not in its interest to do so,” Ibrahim Bayram, a columnist for
An-Nahar newspaper, said in a telephone interview. “They want
to prove that they can govern and they don’t want to make
mistakes that will make it easy for the other side to wrest
control back from them.”  Hezbollah Ties  Saad Hariri  and his pro-Western Future Movement have said
they were betrayed in the way Mikati came to power and won’t
take part in an administration headed by anyone backed by
Hezbollah and its allies. The Shiite movement, which is
considered a terrorist group by the U.S., is backed by Syria and
 Iran .  In the U.S., House Foreign Affairs Committee Chair Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Republican, called for cutting all U.S. aid to
Lebanon’s new government “as long as any violent extremist
group designated by the U.S. as foreign terrorist organizations
participates in it,” Agence-France Presse reported.  Some analysts say the rise of Hezbollah and its allies
gives a boost to Syria, which has come under heavy Western
criticism for violently crushing an uprising that began in March
and has led to the death of 1,289 civilians and 322 military
service members, according to the Syrian Observatory.  “This is a cabinet that will choose to side with  Syria 
against any possible sanctions,” Hazem al-Amin, a columnist at
Al-Hayat newspaper, said in a telephone interview from Beirut.
“It will not side with the international community.”  ‘Loose Coalition’  Mikati moved to calm fears about the new line-up, saying in
an interview with AFP that the “fact that Hezbollah and its
allies have 18 seats in the 30-member cabinet does not mean that
the country will join the radical camp in terms of its relations
with the international community.”  He said that 12 of the ministers had been appointed by
himself, President Michel Suleiman and Druze leader Walid Jumblatt, ensuring Hezbollah and its allies could not make
decisions unilaterally, AFP reported.  “It’s a loose coalition and it’s not homogenous which
means it won’t be a very effective or unified cabinet,” Paul
Salem, director of the Middle East Center of the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace based in Beirut, said in a
telephone interview.  One of the government’s main tasks will be to reach
consensus on the Hariri tribunal. An indictment filed in January
by the UN prosecutor is being reviewed by a court in the
Netherlands. Hezbollah’s leader,  Hassan Nasrallah , has said he
expects it to indict some of his members. Both Hezbollah and
Syria have denied any involvement in Hariri’s death.  Mikati’s Agenda  In a Jan. 27 interview, Mikati said he has “a friendship
with Hezbollah and I also have contacts outside of Lebanon, but
it doesn’t mean I follow anyone’s agenda.”  “My own agenda is going to be followed and that agenda is
to maintain very good relations with the international
community, and Lebanon has to fulfill its commitments,” he
said.  Salem said Mikati has indicated on several occasions that
he was “trying to go the middle line” when it comes to the
tribunal.  “The cabinet will not positively cooperate with the
tribunal, but at the same time it doesn’t seek a
confrontation,” said Salem. “This is not a government designed
to escalate and confront.”  Hariri was killed along with 22 others by a roadside bomb
in  Beirut  in 2005. The country has since witnessed at least
seven political assassinations, a monthlong war between  Israel 
and Hezbollah in 2006 and civil unrest three years ago in which
about 80 people died.  Mikati was confirmed as premier by Suleiman after winning
the backing of lawmakers in January. Hezbollah brought down
Hariri’s government on Jan. 12 as it sought to halt the UN
investigation. It alleges the  tribunal  was instigated by the
U.S. and Israel to target the group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama, Bahrain at  dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  