-- 
ECB’s Nowotny Says Rating Companies Complicate Vienna-Style Greek Rollover

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-06-14T13:32:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/ecb-s-nowotny-says-rating-companies-complicate-vienna-style-greek-rollover.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said that the multitude of Greek
bond holders and the involvement of rating agencies make a
Vienna-style debt rollover for  Greece  more complicated.  European policymakers are trying to convince Greek
creditors to participate in a new bailout, while avoiding a
downgrade to default or triggering derivatives insuring Greek
debt. They need rating companies on board for a rollover to
succeed, Nowotny said. Standard & Poor’s yesterday cut Greece’s
rating to CCC, its lowest for any sovereign nation in the world.  “In the field of bond markets, you are to a very large
extent in the hands of rating agencies,” Nowotny told
journalists in Vienna today. “And a lot of insecurity is coming
out of that.”  The 2009’s so-called Vienna initiative encouraged western
European banks to continue funding their units in eastern
 Europe . A plan for Greece modeled on that approach could involve
leaning on creditors to roll over expiring bonds, buying time
for Greece to regain access to markets or restructure debt under
a permanent EU bailout mechanism that takes effect in 2013.  “A Vienna-type initiative would make sense with respect to
coordination, but one has to see the differences between the
original Vienna initiative and the discussion that is going on
now,” Nowotny said. “The basic difference is that it was about
the coordination of loans, it was the loan-giving activities. In
case of Greece it’s about bonds.”  Brussels Meeting  European finance chiefs are meeting in Brussels today to
begin the final stage of hammering out a new Greek rescue to
prevent the euro area’s first sovereign default. They may seek
as much as 30 billion euros in support from private creditors,
two people with direct knowledge of the talks said last week.  While a debt rollover has been gaining support among EU
officials, credit analysts at Moody’s Investors Service,
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings have indicated that pressure
on private investors to participate would prompt a default
rating. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday that
anything that could trigger even a selective default must be
avoided by governments.  The Vienna initiative involved the western banks that owned
the biggest lenders in eastern Europe, including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
Raiffeisen Bank International AG and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA. The
banks pledged to keep their units in those countries afloat by
rolling over funding and providing fresh capital when needed.  “With regard to loans, we could have a direct dialogue
with a limited number of banks,” Nowotny said today.
“Therefore in that case it was much more feasible to have
results in a relatively fast approach.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  