-- 
Medicare Cuts Would Hit Republican Lawmakers

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-06-14T20:38:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/medicare-cuts-would-hit-republican-lawmakers-most-census-shows.html
Republican  Michael Fitzpatrick  of
Pennsylvania backed a U.S. House plan in April to privatize
Medicare even though his congressional district would feel the
impact more than almost anywhere else in the nation.  While the House plan was later rejected by the Senate, it
may be a potent 2012 campaign issue for Democrats.  Nine of the 10 districts throughout the U.S. with the most
people age 45-54 are represented by Republicans, including
Fitzpatrick, a Bloomberg analysis of census data shows. Those
would be among the first Americans to no longer have Medicare as
an open-ended entitlement, and instead would be given money to
buy private insurance when they’re eligible, under the plan.  Fitzpatrick, like the other Republicans, said he stands by
his position.  “All the important votes that I cast as their
representative that are directed toward putting the country’s
fiscal house back in order will be difficult,” the 47-year-old
lawmaker said in an interview. “It requires tough choices.”  Seventeen percent of Fitzpatrick’s eighth congressional
district is between 45 and 54, the fifth-highest total in the
U.S., census data show.  So far, older Americans aren’t responding favorably to
privatizing Medicare, polls show. Fifty-one percent of people
age 50 and over oppose the Republican plan, while 29 percent
support it, according to a May 25-30  survey  by the Washington-
based Pew Research Center. Even among Republicans, more people
oppose the plan than like it.  ‘No Changes’  The changes are designed to save the program’s finances by
trimming government-provided benefits for everyone under age 55.
The health-insurance program for the elderly and disabled that
covers everyone 65 and older will run out of money to pay full
benefits by 2024, according to Medicare.  Michael A. Smith is 54 and said he doesn’t like the idea of
scaling it back one bit.  “A community like this, they want jobs and no changes in
the funds they’ve paid into all their lives,” Smith, a self-
described lifelong Republican who’s unemployed, said in
Langhorne, part of the northern Philadelphia suburbs that make
up the eighth district.  Fitzpatrick, who won back his congressional seat last year
by 7 percentage points after having lost it in 2006, said voters
understand the need to curb Medicare spending.  “We’ve got to put the country back on a path to balancing
the budget,” he said.  Democratic Upset  Yet voter dislike of the Republican proposal helped lead
Democrat Kathy Hochul to a special-election victory for a
congressional seat in  New York  last month.  On June 1, the  National Republican Congressional Committee 
announced a targeted effort to defend party candidates,
including Fitzpatrick, and New Hampshire Republicans Charlie Bass, 59, who was narrowly elected in 2010, and Frank Guinta,
40.  Bass’s and Guinta’s congressional districts are also among
those with the highest share of people age 45 to 54, according
to the data. Like Fitzpatrick, they’ll have to defend seats in
districts that supported  Barack Obama  in 2008.  Among the other lawmakers whose constituents would be most
immediately affected by the Republican plan are New Jersey
Republicans  Scott Garrett , Leonard Lance, and Rodney Frelinghuysen, New York Republicans  Peter King , 67, and Nan Hayworth, and Colorado Republican Mike Coffman.  ‘Rude Awakening’  Representative Joe Courtney, 58, of  Connecticut  is the sole
Democrat in those top 10 districts. He said the Medicare
proposal, offered by House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan ,
a Wisconsin Republican, would come back to haunt Republicans.  “That’s awesome,” Courtney said of the census data. “It
shows they’re in for a rude awakening.”  The Republican lawmakers said voters will vindicate their
decision to back the Ryan plan.  “When I have the opportunity to explain it, it’s been
positive,” Coffman, 56, said.  Said Bass, “I’m doing what I think is right for our
country.”  Frelinghuysen, 65, said, “My job is to tell it in a
straightforward and factual way: The situation is unsustainable,
and any Republican or Democrat in Congress who suggests
otherwise isn’t telling the truth.”  Other Republican lawmakers said Democrats should offer
their own proposal to reform Medicare.  Where Are Alternatives?  “Are there other alternatives out there?” said Garrett,
51. Garrett, who got 65 percent of the vote in 2010, said he
doesn’t believe his support for the Ryan plan makes him
vulnerable with voters next year.  Lance, 58, said the 55-year-old cutoff point for the
privatization plan “is certainly negotiable and perhaps it
should be younger.”  Hayworth, 51, a freshman lawmaker who worked for 16 years
as an ophthalmologist, said constituents who would be affected
by the Republican plan “will have at least 10 years to prepare
for that beneficial, consumer-driven change.”  King’s office didn’t respond to a request for comment.  For the entire U.S., 14.6 percent of the population is
between 45 and 54 years of age. Those in the top 10 districts
most affected had 16.9 percent to 18 percent of their residents
in that bracket.  One medical professional in Fitzpatrick’s district said
he’s concerned about whether Medicare will even exist by the
time he turns 65.  “I’m concerned that a lot of money I’ve paid out over the
years is not going to be there in any capacity,” said John
Pagan, 47, a doctor who practices in Sellersville,  Pennsylvania ,
part of Fitzpatrick’s district.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 