-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Gain Most in Two Weeks on China Production Growth

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-06-14T15:23:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/emerging-market-stocks-rise-most-in-two-weeks-on-china-growth-speculation.html
Emerging-market stocks rose the most
in two weeks, currencies strengthened and borrowing costs fell
as better-than-estimated industrial production in  China  eased
concern that the fastest-growing major economy is slowing.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.9 percent to
1,134.34 at 11:11 a.m. New York time, set for the biggest gain
since May 31. Brazil’s Bovespa index gained for the first time
in three days and China’s Shanghai Composite Index increased 1.1
percent, Taiwan’s Taiex Index climbed 1.3 percent and South
Korea’s Kospi rallied 1.4 percent. Poland’s WIG20 Index added
0.6 percent as  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH)  rose on higher copper
prices. The Russian ruble strengthened 0.5 percent against the
dollar.  China’s industrial production rose 13.3 percent in May from
a year earlier, topping the 13.1 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey, while fixed-asset investment quickened
and inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in almost three
years. Shares pared some of their gains after the People’s Bank
of China said it will raise the reserve-requirement ratio for
lenders by 0.5 percentage point.  The Chinese data “provide further evidence that growth is
moderating in response to recent policy measures, but at a very
gradual pace, with little to suggest that Beijing needs to worry
about a hard landing in coming months,”  Brian Jackson , a senior
emerging-market strategist at  RBC Capital Markets  in  Hong Kong ,
wrote in an e-mailed note today.  Valuations Drop  The MSCI emerging-market index gauge has dropped 1.5
percent this year, compared with a 2.1 percent advance in the
 MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of developed-nation shares. Stocks in the
emerging-market index traded at 10.9 times analysts’ 12-month
earnings estimates yesterday, the lowest level since March 2009,
and were valued at 12.3 times today, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 302 today, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global Index. The Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of
credit-default swaps for emerging  Europe , the  Middle East  and
Africa fell four basis points to 197.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index increased 0.2
percent, while India’s government note yields climbed and the
rupee strengthened 0.3 percent against the dollar.  India ’s
inflation accelerated in May, exceeding the median economist
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey and adding pressure on the
central bank to extend the fastest round of interest-rate
increases among  Asia ’s major economies.  Shanghai Composite  In Brazil, Iron-ore miner Vale SA, whose top export market
is China, followed metal prices higher.  The Shanghai Composite climbed the most in two weeks. Anhui
Conch Cement Co., China’s largest cement producer, surged 9
percent, its biggest gain since July 28. Huaxin Cement Co.
jumped 8.6 percent. Fixed-asset investment excluding rural
households expanded 25.8 percent in the first five months,
compared with analysts’ 25.2 percent median forecast.  The MSCI emerging-market index trimmed some of its gains
after China’s announcement on reserve requirements, which came
after markets in Shanghai, Seoul and Taipei had shut. The  MSCI
China (MXCN)  Index, which tracks mainly Chinese shares listed in Hong
Kong, pared its gain to 0.1 percent from as much as 0.9 percent.  “China’s reserve-requirement increase will have a limited
impact on equities in China and other Asian countries,” said
Saharat Chudsuwan, the Bangkok-based chief investment officer at
Tisco Asset Management Co., which oversees about $4.6 billion
including Chinese equities. “The Chinese move is in line with
most investors’ expectation for another round for tightening
policies to control the inflation. We expect the Chinese
authorities will be less aggressive in conducting policies in
the second half.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 