-- 
Employers Spruce Up Benefits to Keep Older Workers, BofA Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-06-14T12:45:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/employers-spruce-up-benefits-to-keep-older-workers-bofa-says.html
Employers are sprucing up benefits
such as flexible work schedules and retirement planning to
retain older workers, according to  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   About 94 percent of employers said they think it’s
important to keep older workers because the companies need their
skills, said a study released today by the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank. Employers are offering customized
schedules, education on retirement and health care, and the
ability to work from home, according to the study, which is
based on interviews with 650 company executives and benefit
administrators from April 19 to April 23. The businesses
surveyed had from $5 million to $2 billion in revenue last year
and at least 100 employees.  “They believe that older workers are essential to the
company’s success,” said Andy Sieg, head of retirement services
for Bank of America Merrill Lynch, which provides retirement
services to companies and individuals, and is responsible for
$545 billion in assets as of March 31. “They understand the
secular trend is one where there is likely to be some shortages
in terms of skilled workers to fill key roles in companies.”  The jobless rate among workers age 55 and over rose in May
to 6.8 percent from 6.5 percent in April, according to the  U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics . The national  unemployment rate  was
9.1 percent in May, Labor Department figures show.  Older workers tend to remain out of work for longer periods
than younger employees once they lose their jobs, said Emy Sok,
an economist at the bureau. Workers age 55 and above were out of
work about 41 weeks on average last year, compared with 35 weeks
for those age 25 to age 54.  Lose Talent  About half of employers surveyed are offering flexible or
customized schedules to older employees and 22 percent give them
the opportunity to work remotely, according to the report. About
a third of companies are providing education about retirement
income and health-care issues.  “If programs and strategies aren’t in place you’re going
to let all that talent and knowledge out the door,” said
Chasity Miller, managing director of compensation and benefits
for  AGL Resources Inc. (AGL) , a natural gas distribution company based
in Atlanta. “We want to make sure that we retain talent and
have time to transfer the knowledge to younger workers.”  AGL, which has about 2,500 employees, is starting a
“phased-retirement program” in July to give workers who retire
the opportunity to return on a part-time or project basis, and
still have access to the company’s benefit programs such as its
401(k) savings plan, said Miller. Bank of America is the
administrator of AGL’s retirement plans.  Delaying Retirement  Workers have been remaining in the labor force longer
before retiring since the 1990s, said Steven Sass, an associate
director at Boston College’s  Center for Retirement Research . The
shift from traditional pensions to 401(k) savings plans means
employees may not have enough income at age 62 or age 65 to
replace their earnings during retirement, Sass said.  The rate of people age 55 and older participating in the
 labor force , which means they are either working or looking for
employment, was 40.3 percent in May, compared with 29.2 percent
in 1993, said Sok of the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Workers who are able delay their retirement past age 65
still may not have enough income to cover their basic expenses
and any uninsured health-care costs once they stop working,
according to a June  report  from the Washington-based Employee
Benefit Research Institute.  “You just can’t simply go through your career not saving
assuming that well if I get to 65 and I defer retirement a
couple of years I’ll be fine,” Jack VanDerhei, EBRI’s research
director said. “It’s simply not going to be the case for
everybody.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 