-- 
Tokyo Electric Jumps by Record 25% After Short Sale, Margin Rule Changes

-- B y   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o   a n d   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-06-14T09:17:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/tepco-rises-record-24-after-short-sale-margin-rule-changes.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co., battling
the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl, surged the most in
almost four decades after the stock exchange clamped down on
short-selling of the shares and the Cabinet approved a bill to
help the utility compensate victims of the disaster.  The stock rose 25 percent to 249 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trading in Tokyo, its biggest gain since at least September 1974.
The utility known as Tepco has slumped 88 percent since March 10,
the day before an earthquake and tsunami crippled its Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, erasing about 3.1 trillion yen ($39
billion) in market value.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange raised the collateral requirement
for short sales of the utility to 50 percent from 30 percent,
discouraging speculators by making the trade more expensive.
Financial Services Minister Shozaburo Jimi said today  Japan  will
guarantee bank loans to a third-party organization created to
ensure the utility can compensate victims of the accident.  “The tighter regulation will likely prevent investors from
short selling Tepco’s shares,” said  Kenichi Hirano , general
manager and strategist at Tachibana Securities Co. in Tokyo.
“That would be positive factor as it will likely bring about
more buyers than sellers in the market.”  Victim Compensation  Japan’s largest bourse makes  changes  like the one it did
today when the gap between a company’s closing share price and
its 25-day moving average exceeds 30 percent and more than 20
percent of margin sales are new, according to the exchange.
Today was the second time the exchange has increased the margin
requirement for Tepco shares since the earthquake, bourse
spokesman Yukari Hozumi said.  Tokyo Electric’s shares also rose after Japan’s Cabinet
today approved a disaster compensation bill to help Tepco pay
reparations. The utility said it is preparing compensation for
victims of the disaster after the record earthquake and tsunami
wrecked the atomic station, leading to radiation leaks.  The cost of dismantling the plant may reach 20 trillion yen,
and compensation for households in a 20-kilometer evacuation
zone may total 630 billion yen over 10 years, according to the
 Japan Center for Economic Research .  In a short sale, a trader borrows shares and sells them. If
the price drops, the trader profits by buying back the stock at
a lower price, repaying the loan and pocketing the difference.  “Margin selling had been taking place until just before
the announcement and shares were at a low,” said Masatsugu
Okeya, a  fund manager  at Chiba-Gin Asset Management Co. “The
regulations proved an easy catalyst for the stock to be bought
back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net ;
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 