-- 
Tepco Decontamination to Produce Radioactive Sludge Crisis

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 
2011-06-14T04:03:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/tepco-faces-radioactive-sludge-crisis.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co., which is
struggling to contain the worst nuclear disaster in 25 years,
has another crisis on its hands: finding storage for enough
radioactive sludge to fill an Olympic-sized swimming pool.  The utility known as Tepco plans to start decontaminating
millions of liters of water poured over melted reactors after
the March 11 earthquake and tsunami knocked out cooling systems.
By the end of the year it expects to have 2,000 cubic meters of
highly radioactive sludge separated from the water, said Teruaki
Kobayashi, a nuclear facility manager at Tepco.  “We haven’t determined a final disposal site for the
waste,” Kobayashi said in an interview yesterday. “Our
priorities are decontaminating radioactive water and maintaining
cooling efforts.”  Tepco has yet to say how much radiation has been released
by the crippled reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in the
three months since the meltdowns started. Government tests in
May showed radioactive soil in pockets of areas outside a 20-
kilometer (12 mile) exclusion zone around the plant have reached
the same level as Chernobyl, where a “dead zone” remains since
a reactor exploded in 1986.  Radiation from the plant has spread over 600 square
kilometers, according to a report by the Nuclear Waste
Management Organization of  Japan .  No Restroom  The sludge will be put in tanks at the station, where three
reactors melted, and moved to a temporary storage unit in
December, Kobayashi said. About 105 million liters (28 million
gallons) of contaminated water lies in basements and trenches at
Fukushima and Tepco expects the amount to almost double by the
end of the year.  “Dealing with this type of sludge waste is something Japan
never expected and not having the final disposal facilities is
akin to building a condominium without a toilet,” said Ken
Nakajima, a professor of nuclear engineering at  Kyoto
University . “It will likely have to be stored at the Fukushima
plant for several years,” he said.  The company delayed the start of operations of the
decontamination unit supplied by Areva SA to June 17, Junichi Matsumoto, a general manager at Tepco, said yesterday. The delay
was announced as more workers at the plant are registering
dangerous levels of radiation.  Cancer Risk  The utility yesterday said six workers may have been
exposed to radiation exceeding the government’s annual limit of
250 millisieverts for atomic plant staff, bringing the total to
eight who have crossed the threshhold.  Two of the workers may have received double the 250
millisievert limit, or a level that increases the risk of
cancer, according to the  World Nuclear Association . The findings
are based on preliminary assessments of 2,367 of 3,726 people
who worked at the plant in March, Junichi Matsumoto, the
utility’s general manager said.  Radiation in the water is estimated at 720,000 tera
becquerels, Matsumoto said at a media briefing in Tokyo on June
3. That’s almost as much as the latest estimate of the radiation
released into the air in the five days after March 11.  At Chernobyl, the world’s worst nuclear disaster, 5.2
million tera becquerels of radiation was discharged, Japan’s
Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said on April 12.  Most of the water poured over the reactors has overflowed
or leaked into basements, connecting tunnels and service
trenches at the plant, which has six reactors housed in separate
buildings. The plant is about 220 kilometers north of Tokyo.  Explosions  The failure of the cooling systems for reactors and water
pools storing spent fuel rods led to explosions and fires at the
Fukushima plant, generating a radiation plume that forced the
evacuation of more than 50,000 households and contaminated
drinking water and food. Tepco has also discharged radiated
water into the ocean.  Seawater taken near the plant has a level of radioactive
strontium as much as 240 times the legal limit, broadcaster NHK
reported on its website yesterday, citing the utility.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
小笹俊一 in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  