-- 
Ericsson to Buy Telcordia for $1.2 Billion to Add Services

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-06-14T16:57:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/ericsson-agrees-to-acquire-telcordia-for-1-15-billion-in-an-all-cash-deal.html
Ericsson AB agreed to buy Telcordia
Technologies Inc. for $1.2 billion, the biggest deal in five
years for the world’s largest maker of mobile-phone networks, to
add more software and service support offerings.  Ericsson reached an agreement with Providence Equity
Partners LLC and  Warburg Pincus  LLC to acquire all of Telcordia
in an cash transaction and on a debt-free basis, it said in a
statement today. The deal, which will add about 2,600 employees
to the Swedish company’s staff, is expected to close in the
fourth quarter, according to Stockholm-based Ericsson.  Ericsson is expanding in services to win and keep clients
which rely on fast and efficient networks to sell new data
offerings. The Swedish company on April 27 said first-quarter
profit more than tripled as data-hungry devices such as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and tablet computers are fuelling demand for
third-generation wireless systems enabling high-speed Internet.  “Operators don’t want to change their networks but they
want to have them evolve, and software and services are key for
that,” said Jean-Michel Salvador, an analyst at Alphavalue in
Paris. “This is a way to buy people who know a lot about
network evolution,” he said, adding that the price “wasn’t
very expensive.”  New Services  The transaction needs regulatory approvals and will add to
Ericsson earnings per share within 12 months after closing, the
company said. Telcordia will strengthen Ericsson’s operations in
 North America  and expand its position in the market for
“service fulfillment, assurance, network optimization and real-
time charging,” the Swedish company said.  The deal values Telcordia at 9 to 10 times estimated 2011
earnings before interest and taxes, according to Sanford C.
Bernstein analyst  Pierre Ferragu . Ericsson paid a median of 22.6
times Ebit in eight previous deals, according to Bloomberg data.
That compares with a 22 times Ebit industry average, based on 55
telecom services deals worth more than $1 billion.  The price tag looks “very good,” Ferragu said in a note
to clients. “We see the deal as well disciplined and creating
good return to shareholders.”  Ericsson shares climbed 1.7 percent to 88.70 kronor in
Stockholm trading today, valuing the company at $45.9 billion.  The market for software and systems integration was worth
about $35 billion last year and is expected to show a compound
annual growth rate between 6 and 8 percent from 2010 to 2013,
Ericsson said.  Data Demand  “Telcordia has a good position with fixed operators and
Ericsson is strong in mobile and other domains of the network so
together we can create a strong position,” Jan Frykhammar,
Ericsson’s chief financial officer, said in a telephone
interview today.  The Swedish company said in April that mobile-data traffic
more than doubled last year and is forecast to continue doubling
every year in the near term. It forecasts worldwide mobile
broadband subscriptions to double to 1 billion this year.  Ericsson also faces challenges as carriers are merging to
cut costs. Russia’s VimpelCom Ltd. in April agreed to acquire
Wind Telecom SpA, forecasting savings of $2.5 billion. AT&T Inc.
said in March that its planned merger with  T-Mobile USA  could
deliver $40 billion in savings.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France Telecom SA (FTE)  agreed to set up
a purchasing venture that would let the two former phone
monopolies save a combined 1.3 billion euros annually by jointly
buying equipment. Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s biggest
phone-equipment maker, said in April it aims to more than triple
annual sales to about $100 billion in the next five to 10 years
as it expands into cloud computing and small-business networks.  Warburg Pincus and Providence purchased Telcordia, based in
Piscataway,  New Jersey , from Science Applications International
Corp. in 2005. The company, which also offers support systems,
network software and consulting, had sales of $739 million in
the 12 months ended Jan. 31, according to today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  