-- 
Merkel Panics at Fukushima, Earth Burns: What France Is Reading

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-06-14T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/merkel-panics-at-fukushima-french-physicist-yawns-what-france-is-reading.html
No wonder the word “angst” is
understood throughout the world.  Germany ’s hasty U-turn on nuclear energy following the
disaster at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant typifies a
Teutonic tendency to succumb to panic and irrational fear,
argues former French Education Minister Claude Allegre.  The decision by  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s coalition to
close all its nuclear reactors by 2022 is “the dumbest they
have ever taken,” says Allegre, a physicist by profession, in a
new book on the advantages and risks of atomic energy.  The title of this slim volume, cast in the easily digested
format of an interview with a journalist, is a simple question:
“Faut-Il Avoir Peur du Nucleaire?” (“Should We Fear Nuclear
Power?”). Allegre’s answer: It depends on where you live.  “The situation in  France  is completely different” from
that in Japan, he tells reporter Dominique de Montvalon. “We
don’t have earthquakes measuring 9 on the Richter scale. Nor do
we have tsunamis. Our plants are much more modern, and our
technicians are more competent than the Japanese.”  Though a “zero risk” reactor doesn’t exist, the French
can take comfort in the country’s atomic record and reporting
practices. Unlike Tokyo Electric Power Co., which was slow in
disclosing the full extent of the catastrophe, Electricite de
France SA faithfully reports even minor incidents at its 58
reactors: They number some 700 a year -- none dangerous, the
former minister says.  “For a Frenchman, the nuclear risk is infinitely smaller
than the one he runs when he boards a plane or uses his car over
the weekend,” he says.  Waste vs. Wind  It’s true that the challenge of how to handle nuclear waste
hasn’t yet been satisfactorily solved, Allegre says. Yet he
voices a preference for that shortcoming over the prospect of
ruining the French landscape with 100,000 wind farms or solar
panels carpeting an area the size of a large province.  Eventually, he argues, researchers will find an even safer,
cleaner, more economical source of energy. He pins his hopes on
hydrogen, which he calls the energy of the future. Nuclear
fusion, though a splendid idea, will be achieved only in the
next century, he says.  “ Europe ,” Allegre concludes, “must not become the
continent of fear, of anti-progress and anti-science.”  “Faut-Il Avoir Peur du Nucleaire” is from  Plon  (161
pages, 9.90 euros).  Burning Planet  Denis Baupin, a deputy mayor of Paris and prominent Green,
is all for windmills and solar panels, even if they’re eyesores.
That’s a negligible nuisance compared with the dangers posed by
traditional energy sources, he says in “La Planete Brule”
(“The Planet Is Burning”).  Baupin advocates a “post-carbon, post-nuclear society.”
It should be possible, he says, to withdraw from nuclear energy,
which provides about 80 percent of France’s electricity, within
20 years.  “La Planete Brule” is his response to the failure of
governments at the  United Nations  Climate Change Conference in
Copenhagen to craft a new, legally binding treaty to limit
global warming. As the title implies, Baupin isn’t content to
put France on the right track. Nothing less will do, he says,
than an international commitment to a fairer distribution of the
world’s energy reserves.  “A utopian proposal?” he asks. “No doubt. Yet weren’t
Social Security and the United Nations once utopian ideas?”  ‘Pseudo-Revolution’  Baupin dismisses the electric car, the darling of
automobile shows, as a “pseudo-revolution.” According to the
European Commission, it will at best conquer 2 percent of the
market within the next decade, he says.  He aims much higher. His dreams run to “prosperity without
growth” and a society that invests in preserving the
environment instead of wasting its wealth on weapons and drugs.
The trillions of dollars spent to prop up the financial system
have shown that there was enough money to save the banks, he
says. Shouldn’t there be enough to save the planet?  Approvingly, Baupin cites  a study  by Princeton University
professors who found that rising income only increases a human’s
day-to-day happiness until it reaches about $75,000 a year.
Beyond that level, money stops improving the emotional quality
of everyday experience, according to the academics, who included
behavioral economist Daniel Kahneman, a Nobel laureate.  When it comes to balancing the economy with ecology, the
Greens have yet to present a model that convinces doubting
Thomases who want more than a virtuous, frugal, strictly
regulated life, Baupin concedes. I’m not sure his book will win
many converts.  “La Planete Brule” is from  Hoebeke  (338 pages, 19.50
euros).  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net . 