-- 
Tesco Sales Growth Misses Estimate as Demand for General Merchandise Wanes

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-06-14T07:26:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/tesco-sales-growth-misses-estimates.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest
grocer, reported first-quarter sales growth that missed analysts
estimates amid “constrained demand” for general merchandise
items such as electronics.  U.K. same-store sales rose 1 percent, excluding gasoline
and including value-added tax, the Cheshunt, England-based
retailer said in a statement today. That missed the 1.5 percent
median estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, and
compares with the fourth quarter’s 0.2 percent increase. Sales
of non-food items declined 5 percent on that basis.  Sales of electronic items, which account for about a third
of all non-food sales, are still “down and struggling,”  Chief
Financial Officer Laurie McIlwee told journalists on a call
today. Chief Executive Officer  Philip Clarke  is trying to revive
sales of non-food items and plans to add more own brands to lift
sales in the company’s domestic market.  “The numbers are modestly disappointing,” Chris Hogbin,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said by phone. Improvements
in non-food ranges “‘won’t happen overnight,” he added. Hogbin
has an “outperform” rating on the stock.  Tesco dropped as much as 5.95 pence, 1.5 percent, to 401.3
pence and traded at 402.1 pence as of 8:25 a.m. in London
trading. The stock has declined 5.4 percent this year, compared
with rival  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) ’s 13 percent drop.  ‘Cautious’ Consumers  “Customers are cautious and many are shopping on a smaller
budget due to fuel prices,” McIlwee said. The “British
consumer, if you look at sentiment, has not really improved at
all,” he added.  The non-food team of executives has been strengthened but
improving the product range takes longer to correct, the
executive said. Sales of clothing, toys and outdoor leisure has
improved, he added. “The range is gradually getting better but
the timeframe that you can improve non-food frankly take a lot
longer,” McIlwee said.  Food Sales  A better range and pricing in foods, such as wine, was the
driver of the same-store sales increase, McIlwee said. The
higher-priced own-brand Finest range reported a 10 percent gain
in same-store sales as customer looked for an alternative to
eating out.  “Nothing’s getting worse but it’s not getting
significantly better,” he added.  International sales including petrol rose 2.8 percent. In
the U.S, where same-store sales climbed 11 percent, internal
expectations is for double-digit growth to continue, McIlwee
said, adding Tesco is on track to break even at its Fresh & Easy
chain in the country by 2013.  In  Asia , which includes the Homeplus stores in  South Korea ,
Tesco had same-store sales growth of 3.2 percent, while  Europe 
posted growth of 2 percent with improvements in central Europe
and  Turkey  offsetting weakness in Ireland.  “International growth is solid whilst the U.S. should
reassure investors focused on the breakeven point,” Matthew
Truman, an analyst at JPMorgan Cazenove, said in a report. He
has an “overweight” rating.  Tesco’s outlook for the company as a whole remains
unchanged and the group is performing “in-line” with market
expectations, Clarke said in the statement.  Tesco’s first quarter covered the 13 weeks ended May 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net . 