-- 
Ethiopian Airlines Flights Disrupted by Ash Cloud From Eritrean Volcano

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-06-14T15:39:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/ethiopian-airlines-says-flights-disrupted-by-cloud-from-eritrean-volcano.html
Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise, the
state-owned carrier, said some of its flights had been disrupted
by an  ash cloud  from a volcanic eruption in neighboring Eritrea.  Routes to northern Ethiopia, neighboring Djibouti and the
Sudanese capital of Khartoum have been affected, the Addis
Ababa-based airline said in an e-mailed statement today. The
company urged travelers to check the status of their flights
before embarking on their journey.  “We are closely monitoring” the situation, Getachew
Tesfa, a spokesman for the airline, said by phone today. “As
things get better we are ready to operate. All other flights are
operating.”  Eritrea’s  Nabro volcano  erupted on June 12, spewing an ash
cloud about 13.5 kilometers (8.4 miles) into the atmosphere,
Philippe Husson, a manager at the  Volcanic Ash Advisory Center 
in Toulouse,  France , said in a phone interview. After initially
projecting volcanic ash for about 36 hours, the volcano is now
producing sulphur dioxide and water, he said.  Flights from Frankfurt,  Germany  to Bole International
Airport in  Addis Ababa  have been canceled, according to the
website of Deutsche Lufthansa AG.  Ongoing Eruption  “The eruption is ongoing in terms of gases and water, but
there is no more volcanic ash, which is a hazard for aviation,”
Husson said.  No records exist of Nabro erupting before, according to
Atalay Ayele, associate geophysics professor at Addis Ababa
University.  “Nobody knows if it has erupted” previously, he said in a
phone interview. The nearby Dubbi volcano last erupted in 1861,
Atalay said.  The eruption cut short a two-day visit to  Ethiopia  by U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who left the Horn of Africa
yesterday “to avoid being unable to travel for an indeterminate
period of time,” the State Department said in an e-mail.  Eritrea, a nation of about 6 million people, is about the
size of the U.S. state of Pennsylvania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 