-- 
EU to Protect for First Time CO2 Permit Transfers, EEX Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-06-14T14:02:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/eu-to-protect-for-first-time-co2-permit-transfers-eex-says-1-.html
Rules proposed by the European
Commission to protect for the first time traders that
inadvertently receive stolen carbon allowances will help
underpin trading, said the European Energy Exchange AG.  The rules, which already apply in some nations including
 Germany , “have proved to be a sound foundation safeguarding
that EU allowance trading is not affected even in the event of
the theft of emission allowances,” Oliver Maibaum, managing
director of the Leipzig, Germany-based exchange, said today by
e-mail. “As a result, stolen EU allowances would be treated
similarly to stolen money.”  A proposal to remove serial numbers from permits will work
because of the protection offered by the rules on transfer of
ownership, Maibaum said. A planned 24-hour delay in transactions
may be a “very effective means of preventing fraudulent
activities,” he said.  The carbon market proposals will be discussed June 17 in a
Climate Change Committee meeting in Brussels that will include
representatives of member states. Jos Delbeke, director general
for climate at the commission, said last week that “intense
discussions” with nations have continued since the commission
presented the draft last month. One issue still under discussion
is the 24-hour delay in transfer of carbon allowances between
registry accounts, he said.  The U.K. declined to comment on whether it was in favor of
the Brussels plan to treat allowances like money.  “We are strongly supportive of the intention of the
commission to enhance the security of EU emissions trading
system registries,” said the Department for Energy and Climate
Change in an e-mailed response to questions. “The commission’s
draft regulation is a complex proposal and we are working
closely with market participants to make sure we secure a
regulation that both enhances security and ensures a liquid and
well-functioning market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  