-- 
Europe Stocks Rise as China Industrial Production Tops Estimates

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-06-14T16:34:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/european-stock-index-futures-advance-glencore-bmw-tesco-may-be-active.html
European stocks rose, giving the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index its first back-to-back gains in three
weeks, as Chinese industrial production and U.S. retail sales
topped forecasts.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  climbed 1.6 percent after agreeing to settle all
patent litigation with Apple Inc. in a deal that awards a one-
off payment and royalties to the Finnish maker of mobile phones.
 Solarworld AG (SWV)  and Q-Cells SE advanced at least 4 percent after a
report that LDK Solar Co., a Chinese maker of solar panels,
seeks acquisitions in Germany.  The Stoxx 600 rallied 0.8 percent to 270.82 at the 4:30
p.m. close in London. The gauge has still fallen 7 percent from
this year’s high on Feb. 17 amid concern that the U.S. economic
recovery is slowing and as speculation grew that  Greece  may
default on its debt. The measure had declined for six
consecutive weeks, the longest stretch of losses since 2008.  “The consolidation phase in equities is close to its
end,”  Andrew Garthwaite , the head of global strategy at Credit
Suisse Group AG in  London , wrote in a report today. “We
continue to be fundamentally bullish.” Garthwaite increased his
tactical allocation in stocks to “overweight.”  National benchmark indexes advanced in all of the 18
western European markets, except Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
gained 0.5 percent,  France ’s CAC 40 rallied 1.5 percent and
Germany’s DAX advanced 1.7 percent.  Chinese Economy  China ’s industrial production rose more than estimated in
May, while inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in almost
three years. Production gained 13.3 percent from the year
before, exceeding the median economist forecast of 13.1 percent
in a Bloomberg survey. The 5.5 percent annual gain in consumer
prices matched estimates.  China also raised the reserve requirement ratio for the
nation’s banks by 50 basis points to cool inflation. The world’s
second-biggest economy has boosted  interest rates  four times
since September, increased bank reserve requirements to a record
and allowed the yuan to gain about 1.6 percent against the
dollar this year.  Stocks extended gains after U.S. retail sales topped
estimates. The 0.2 percent decrease in May was smaller than the
0.5 percent median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Global investors increased their cash holdings to the
highest in a year this month as  hedge funds  cut the level of
borrowed money invested in stocks, a BofA Merrill Lynch Global
Research survey showed.  Lowest Credit Rating  European finance chiefs began the final stage of hammering
out a Greek rescue today to prevent the euro area’s first
sovereign default after the country was slapped with the world’s
lowest credit rating by  Standard & Poor’s .  Meeting in Brussels in an emergency session before their
monthly gathering next week, euro-area finance ministers are
seeking to narrow differences on how investors share the cost of
easing  Europe ’s biggest debt burden. They aim to wrap up a new
financing plan at a government leaders’ summit on June 23-24, a
year after Greece received its first bailout package.  S&P downgraded Greece’s credit rating to CCC from B late
yesterday, saying “there is a significantly higher likelihood
of one or more defaults.”  Nokia gained 1.6 percent to 4.36 euros, the biggest
increase in more than a month. Apple will pay Nokia an
undisclosed sum as well as royalties for the term of its
agreement with the former biggest mobile-phone maker in the
world. The agreement will bolster Nokia’s second-quarter non-
IFRS operating margin forecast for its Devices & Services unit,
the company said.  Solarworld Climbs  Solarworld advanced 4 percent to 9.45 euros, while Q-Cells
jumped 6.5 percent to 1.73 euros. LDK Solar seeks acquisitions
in  Germany , Handelsblatt reported today, citing an interview
with Chief Financial Officer Jack Lai. LDK prefers companies
with technological knowledge and a good brand image, Lai told
the newspaper.  Separately, U.S. rival GT Solar International Inc. raised
its first-quarter revenue projection to $225 million from a
range of $140 million to $150 million.  Renewable Energy Corp. ASA jumped 7.4 percent to 11.26
kroner as the maker of solar-energy products was raised to
“neutral” from “sell” at UBS AG. Vestas Wind Systems A/S,
the largest wind-turbine manufacturer, jumped 3 percent to
150.80 kroner as Societe Generale SA said in a report that the
company may gain from a strong order flow.  Avis Europe Plc (AVE)  soared 58 percent to 310.7 pence, its
biggest advance in more than two years, after agreeing to be
acquired by Avis Budget Group Inc. for 636 million pounds ($1.04
billion).  Banks Gain  European bank stocks climbed as BofA Merrill Lynch advised
buying shares in the industry.  ING Groep NV (INGA)  rallied 3.2 percent
to 8.17 euros.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  advanced 2.4
percent to 41.55 pence.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and Danske Bank A/S,
named among BofA Merrill Lynch’s top picks of bank stocks in
today’s report, gained 2.5 percent to 7.86 euros and 2 percent
to 102 kroner, respectively.  Glencore International AG, the world’s largest listed
commodities trader, dropped 4.5 percent to 500 pence even after
saying first-quarter profit increased. The earnings were
“disappointing,” Paul Cliff, an analyst at Nomura Holdings
Inc., wrote in an e-mailed note.  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. fell 1.9 percent to 761.5
pence as Glencore said it isn’t planning a bid for the producer
of metals in  Kazakhstan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  