-- 
Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Sugar Climbing as Thai Ports Jammed

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-06-14T07:40:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/europe-commodity-day-ahead-sugar-climbing-as-thai-ports-jammed.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Sugar Rising as Thai Port Jams Worst in Memory: Freight Markets  Thailand , the world’s second-biggest sugar exporter, is
driving up global prices as the worst port congestion in memory
restricts shipments.  Wheat Export Ban by India May End on Record Crop, Halting Rally  Wheat production in India, the world’s second-biggest
grower, may advance to a record for a fourth year, potentially
spurring the government to ease exports curbs and halting a
rally in global prices.  Cotton Planting in China to Be Capped on Shortages, Survey Shows  Cotton acreage in China, the world’s largest user, may be
capped after rebounding this year by more than 6.6 percent as
high costs and a shortage of labor and land limit expansion, a
survey of traders and analysts showed.  Fees Sap Mutual Funds Seeking Hedge-Fund Returns in Commodities  Altegris Managed Futures Strategy Fund, a mutual fund that
allows less affluent clients to invest with some of the best-
known hedge-fund commodities traders, has attracted $707 million
since its start less than a year ago.  India ’s Record Corn Crop May Lift Exports, Capping Global Costs  Corn production in India,  Asia ’s biggest grower after China,
may surge to a record for a second year as high prices and
normal rains spur farmers to increase planting, potentially
boosting exports.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Aluminum Output in China Climbs to Record on Power Concerns (2)  Aluminum production in China, the world’s largest maker,
climbed to a record last month as smelters increased output amid
high prices and ahead of possible power shortages in summer.  Copper Gains for First Day in Three as China Maintains Growth  Copper climbed for the first day in three on optimism
 China’s economy  is maintaining momentum after data showed
industrial output grew even as the government takes steps to
curb rising prices. Tin slumped to its lowest level this year.  China May Copper Output Gains 10%; Aluminum Production at Record  Copper output by China in May gained 10 percent from a year
ago to 439,000 metric tons, the statistics bureau said today.
Aluminum production advanced 8.7 percent last month to a record
1.54 million tons, the data showed.  SHIPPING:  Tanker Holding Libyan Rebel Oil Unloads in  Hawaii , Data Show  A tanker carrying crude oil collected from a rebel-held
port in eastern  Libya  in April unloaded at least some of its
cargo in Hawaii, ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Mexico’s Ferrari Says U.S. Trucking Pact Ready in ‘Weeks’  Mexican Economy Minister Bruno Ferrari said his country
will sign a formal agreement to end a trucking dispute with the
U.S. as early as this month, setting the stage for the Latin
American country to remove punitive tariffs.  MINING:  Glencore Agrees to Buy Peru Copper Project for $475 Million (1)  Glencore International AG, the world’s biggest publicly
traded commodities trader, made an initial agreement to buy CST
Mining Group Ltd.’s Peruvian copper project for $475 million,
according to CST.  BHP  Australia  Coal Miners Strike for First Time in Decade (1)  More than 400 workers at BHP Billiton Ltd. coking coal
mines in Australia began strikes today for the first time in a
decade, disrupting production from the world’s largest exporter
of the steelmaking commodity.  Newmont Nusa to Sign $600 Million Loan Deal Today to Expand Mine  PT Newmont Nusa Tenggara will sign a $600 million loan
agreement with 16 banks today to expand its gold and copper mine
in  Indonesia ’s West Nusa Tenggara province, Rubi Purnomo, a
spokesman at Newmont Mining Corp.’s Indonesian venture, said in
Jakarta today.  Australian Coal Mines May Close Under Carbon Plan, Minister Says  Some coal mines in Australia, the world’s biggest exporter
of the fuel, may close under the government’s plan to charge
polluters for  carbon emissions , Resources and Energy Minister
Martin Ferguson said.  Codelco Says Violence Is Prolonging Stoppage at Chilean Mine (1)  Codelco, the world’s largest copper company, said an
increase in violent protests at its El Teniente mine in central
 Chile  is preventing a resolution of a three-week contractor pay
dispute that has restricted output.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Snaps Two-Day Drop on Inflation Concern, Greek Debt Crisis  Gold climbed, snapping a two-day decline, as speculation
that inflation in  China  and India may accelerate and a worsening
of  Greece ’s sovereign-debt crisis boosted demand for precious
metals as a store of value.  China May Gold Output Jumps 21% to 63.5 Tons; Silver Rises 1.8%  Gold output in China jumped 21 percent to 63.5 metric tons,
according to data released by the statistic bureau today. Silver
production rose 1.8 percent to 1,009.9 tons, the data showed.  AGRICULTURE:  Pakistan  May Get 10% Below Normal Monsoon, Weather Bureau Says  Monsoon rainfall in Pakistan, the main source of irrigation
for farmers to grow cotton and rice, may be 10 percent below
normal this year, according to the nation’s weather bureau.  Palm Oil  Drops as Soybean Plantings Advance,  Crude Oil  Declines  Palm oil dropped after U.S. farmers accelerated soybean
plantings amidst warmer, drier weather last week and crude oil
declined, cutting the appeal of vegetable oils as feedstock for
biofuels.  Rubber Drops to Three-Week Low on Demand Concern, Oil Fall  Rubber declined to a three-week low as falling oil prices
and accelerating inflation in China, the biggest buyer, cut the
appeal of the commodity used in tires.  China Sells 16.2% of Corn From State Reserves, Site Says (1)  China sold 16.2 percent of the 585,959 tons offered in
auction from temporary state reserves through a so-called inter-
province stock transfer program at 1,892 yuan a ton, according
to a statement on auction site Cereal.com.cn today.  Livestock Eat More Wheat as Cheapest Corn Alternative Since 1996  Livestock producers in the U.S. are feeding more wheat to
cattle, hogs and poultry after the grain became the cheapest
relative to corn in 15 years.  Wheat Export Ban by India May End on Record Crop, Halting Rally  Wheat production in India, the world’s second-biggest
grower, may advance to a record for a fourth year, potentially
spurring the government to ease exports curbs and halting a
rally in global prices.  ECONOMIES:  China Curbs Data Leaks as Market Rises on Industrial Output (1)  China’s crackdown on the leaking of key economic data is
working after inflation figures weren’t disclosed ahead of the
official announcement, analysts said.  China Inflation Accelerates to 5.5%, Fastest Pace Since 2008 (1)  China’s inflation accelerated to 5.5 percent in May, the
fastest pace in almost three years, and industrial output grew
more than economists forecast.  Greece Gets World’s Lowest Rating From S&P as Default Risk Rises  Greece was branded with the world’s lowest credit rating by
 Standard & Poor’s , which said the nation is “increasingly
likely” to face a debt restructuring and the first sovereign
default in the euro area’s history.  OTHER MARKETS:  Yuan Bonds Most Expensive in 11 Months to Stocks: China Credit  A five-month rally in China’s government bond market has
left the securities at their most expensive relative to stocks
in almost a year, cooling demand for fixed-income assets.  Asian Stocks, Aussie Rebound on China Data; Oil Pares Declines  Asian stocks snapped a four-day drop while the Australian
and New Zealand dollars gained after data showed China’s
industrial production slowed less than economists forecast. Oil
pared earlier declines.  Oil Trades Near One-Month Low on Signs Fuel Demand May Slow  Oil traded near the lowest in almost a month on speculation
fuel demand growth may falter as the  U.S. economy  slows and
China acts to cool its fastest inflation in almost three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in London at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  