-- 
Europe’s $103 Billion Yard Sale May Come Up Short as Buyers Seek Bargains

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-06-15T16:55:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/europe-s-yard-sale-may-come-up-short-as-buyers-seek-bargains.html
Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
vowed in 2009 to scrap an agreement to sell a stake in Greece’s
biggest phone company in a bid to get elected.  This month, forced to raise cash, Greece triggered an
option to sell 10 percent of  Hellenic Telecommunications
Organization SA (HTO) , known as OTE, to  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)  The
price: less than one-third of what Europe’s largest phone
company paid for shares when it last bought OTE stock in 2009.  That deal underlines the challenge facing European
countries such as Greece and Ireland, awash in debt, that are
hoping to raise as much as 71.5 billion euros ($103 billion) in
the continent’s largest yard sale of state assets in more than a
decade. The push may founder as investors seek better returns in
Asia and lower prices than governments are willing to accept,
bankers and investors say. The threat of Greek default or euro
breakup is scaring buyers and depressing prices, they say.  “Forced sales in a downturn are unlikely to achieve good
terms,” said William Megginson, a finance professor at the
University of Oklahoma, who advised the Italian government on
privatizations from 2002 through 2007. “Sovereign wealth funds
invest where their money is safe, and Europeans love  China . It’s
very hard to see how  Greece  can raise such an amount.”  Greek Strike  Papandreou, amid mounting opposition and defections from
allies, offered to resign to allow the formation of a unity
government, a person with direct knowledge of the matter said
today. Meanwhile, Greece’s ports, banks, hospitals and state-run
companies ground to a halt as the two biggest unions went on
strike to oppose budget cuts and asset sales. Police said about
20,000 people were outside the parliament in the third general
strike of the year.  The record debt racked up by Greece,  Spain , Ireland and
Portugal has tested the unity of the European Union. With Greece
unable to borrow -- the extra yield investors demand to hold 10-
year Greek bonds relative to German bunds is 15 percentage
points -- European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet
has opposed efforts to make bondholders share the burden by
restructuring debt and instead pressed for sales of public
assets as part of the solution.  Greece, whose 330 billion euros of debt amounts to 1.5
times its gross domestic product, has committed to an
unprecedented 50 billion euros of asset sales by 2015, including
a casino in Athens, a golf course on the island of Rhodes, toll
roads and a stake in gas supplier Public Gas Co., known as Depa.  Spanish, Irish Sales  Spain plans to sell stakes in its state lottery and an
airport operator to raise 14 billion euros in its biggest
divestment ever. Ireland and Portugal want to raise 7.5 billion
euros between them. Among Irish assets that may be sold: the
National Stud, the state horse-breeding estate, and shares in
 Aer Lingus (AERL)  Group Plc, Ireland’s second-largest airline.  In addition to fund managers and individual investors
targeted in initial public offerings, potential buyers include
sovereign wealth funds and private-equity firms. They will all
be shopping for bargains, bankers said.  “The question is do you get full value?” said David Sola,
a managing director at investment bank Houlihan Lokey in  London .
“The governments will get fair value, but perhaps not maximum
value they could get if they prepare the assets over a longer
time for sale.”  Governments, which must contend with public-worker unions
that oppose the sales, don’t want to be seen as selling cheap.  “We have no intention of having a fire sale,” Ireland’s
finance minister,  Michael Noonan , said on June 8.  Opap Stake  Still, prodded by the EU and the need to cut debt, the
sales are inching ahead. In Greece, whose credit rating was cut
to the lowest in the world this week by  Standard & Poor’s , a
sale a week is planned for this year.  Papandreou last month named Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in Zurich to run sales, including
that of a 34 percent stake in Athens-based  Opap SA (OPAP) , Europe’s
biggest publicly traded gambling company, a holding with a
stock-market value of 1.2 billion euros.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , based
in  New York , is helping the government find developers for
Hellenikon, Athens’s former airport, a site valued at 4 billion
euros, according to an Alpha Bank AE report in September.  Spokesmen for Deutsche Bank, Credit Suisse and Citigroup
declined to comment.  Qatar Prime Minister Hamad bin Jasim Al-Thani told
reporters in Luxembourg on June 9 that talks with Greece
continue after the Gulf country’s September agreement to
consider investing as much as $5 billion in industries including
tourism and real-estate projects such as Hellenikon.  Spanish Lottery  “When finished, we will fulfill our agreement,” he said.
“We think it could be a good model of how we can do good
business and also help the business community in Greece, which
we are committed to.”  Spain plans to sell a 30 percent stake in its national
lottery,  Sociedad Estatal Loterias y Apuestas del Estado , for at
least 6 billion euros in an IPO and wants to generate more than
8 billion euros from the sale of a 49 percent stake in airport
operator Aeropuertos Espanoles y Navegacion Aerea SA, or Aena,
and the management contracts for the airports of the country’s
two biggest cities,  Madrid  and Barcelona.  Foreign Investment Falls  The sales will come after foreign investment into Portugal,
Greece and Spain -- a measure of fund flows into nations --
declined by about 10 percent last year, based on the number of
projects, according to an Ernst & Young report last month.  “Investors have their eyes and pocketbooks attracted by
other regions,” Marc Lhermitte, the London-based Ernst & Young
partner who wrote the report, said in an interview. “Europe may
have peaked as an investment destination.”  Demand from European investors may be stronger, he said.  Abertis Infraestructuras SA (ABE) , one of Spain’s largest
construction companies, is “looking at both the Barcelona and
Madrid airport concessions with interest,” said a spokeswoman.
“No valuation is possible till full conditions are known,” she
said, declining to be identified in line with company policy.  The European sales face growing competition from similar
assets elsewhere, according to Daniel Wong, head of European
infrastructure and utilities at Macquarie Capital in London.  “There are definitely more assets in the energy and
infrastructure space on the market than there were two years
ago,” Wong said. “This means, where the assets are not
performing well or are structurally complicated, they tend to
fall off the buyers’ lists relatively quickly.”  Overcrowded Market  Domenico Siniscalco, Morgan Stanley’s Italy chief, said in
a speech in Milan last month that there’s a risk companies will
“overcrowd” the market by attempting too many transactions at
the same time. Morgan Stanley was the top global merger adviser
in 2010.  Public-market offerings, such as the one planned for the
Spanish lottery company, were the backbone of  Europe ’s
privatization wave in the late 1990s, raising tens of billions
of dollars, and may fare better than asset sales, according to
Megginson, who has studied government disposals for 20 years.
Investor capacity is even greater now, he said.  Private-equity firms, with $558 billion available, are also
potential buyers, according to Chris Mallon, a corporate
restructuring lawyer at Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP in
London, who advised Greece on the reorganization of Olympic
Airlines SA before it was broken up in 2009.  “There’s an appetite for deals among private-equity firms,
with a lot of sponsors chasing few deals,” Mallon said. Still,
“the deals will require the ability to invest in the
operational capabilities as well as the expertise and cultural
sensitivity to make them work.”  TPG,  BC Partners   TPG Capital, the Fort Worth, Texas-based private-equity
company co-founded by  David Bonderman , and London-based BC
Partners Ltd., which both invested in Greece in the past, are
among those considering bidding for Greek assets, people with
knowledge of the matter said. Buyout firms may try to partner
with corporations or with sovereign wealth funds to make joint
bids to mitigate the risks, they said.  Some assets, such as Opap, the Greek gambling company, will
require new regulation to give investors more certainty, said
Giancarlo Aliberti, managing director in Milan of British buyout
fund Apax Partners LLP. Obtaining loans to fund purchases may
also be difficult, he said.  “There isn’t that much debt available, and financial
support from the EU needs to be confirmed to stabilize the
macroeconomic conditions,” Aliberti said. “But under the right
conditions, with the right timing and for the right assets,
investments in the country can be attractive.”  Opap Shares Fall  Opap shares dropped 29 percent since March 28 to 11.30
euros, the level they first reached in 2004. The Athens Stock
Exchange General Index is trading near a 14-year low.  Signs that the  U.S. economy  may be slowing are raising
concern that the recovery in the 17-member euro area may be
threatened, and slower growth may make meeting debt obligations
even tougher as government revenue falls.  “At this stage, debt-ridden European countries have no
other options but to sell assets,” said Carles Vergara, a
finance professor at IESE Business School in Madrid. “It’s the
only way left to obtain extraordinary income quickly without
further cutting spending or increasing taxes. State-owned assets
are there for governments to be able to raise cash in moments of
crisis, and this is a crisis if ever there was one.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  