-- 
Stocks Advance on China’s Growth, U.S. Retail-Sales Data; Dollar Weakens

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-06-14T20:08:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/euro-weakens-on-concern-greek-crisis-is-worsening-oil-asian-stocks-fall.html
Stocks surged, sending the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index to its biggest gain in almost two months, as
higher-than-forecast Chinese industrial output and American
retail sales eased concern about a global economic slowdown.
Treasuries tumbled and the dollar fell, while commodities rose.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied 1.3 percent to
1,287.87 at 4 p.m. in  New York , the biggest gain on a closing
basis since April 20. Ten-year Treasury yields surged 12 basis
points, the most since January, to 3.10 percent and the Dollar
Index lost 0.2 percent. Copper led the S&P GSCI Index up 0.9
percent and oil rebounded from a one-month low. Greek bonds slid
as European officials met to discuss the nation’s debt crisis.  Stocks rallied from  Shanghai  to New York after  China ’s
industrial production rose 13.3 percent in May, while U.S.
retail sales decreased at less than half the median forecast of
economists in a sign that consumers were overcoming elevated
gasoline costs. The S&P 500 climbed for a second day after
sliding for six straight weeks and closing at an almost three-
month low on June 10.  “Investors have been looking for some positive news to
encourage risk-taking, and we’re finally seeing a bit of that,”
said Joseph Tanious, New York-based market strategist at J.P.
Morgan Asset Management, which oversees $1.9 trillion in assets.
“We’ve seen some bright spots in both China and the U.S. today,
which are helping drive this rally forward.”  Retail Sales  The  S&P 500 ’s gain was led by commodity producers,
industrial and consumer companies, with all 10 of the main
industry groups advancing. Sales at retailers fell 0.2 percent
in May, less than the 0.5 percent decline in a Bloomberg survey.
Excluding automobiles, gasoline and building materials, which
are the figures used to calculate gross domestic product, sales
climbed 0.2 percent.  Other data showed wholesale costs in the U.S. increased
more than forecast in May, led by higher prices for fuel,
apparel and textiles. The 0.2 percent increase in the producer-
 price index  reported by the Labor Department compares with the
0.1 percent median estimate of economists. The so-called core
measure, which excludes volatile food and energy costs,
increased 0.2 percent.  Home Depot Inc., Caterpillar Inc. and Boeing Co. climbed at
least 2.3 percent to lead gains in 24 of 30 stocks in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average , which surged 123.14 points, or 1
percent, to 12,076.11.  Best Buy Co., the world’s largest consumer electronics
retailer, rallied 4.6 percent after reporting profit that
exceeded analysts’ forecasts, helped by rising demand for
smartphones and tablet computers. J.C. Penney Co. soared 17
percent, the most in more than 10 years, after naming  Ron
Johnson , Apple Inc.’s retail head, as its chief executive
officer.  $1 Trillion Slide  More than $1 trillion was erased from U.S. equity markets
from the S&P 500’s peak on April 29 through yesterday, leaving
the measure trading at about 12.8 times its companies’ estimate
earnings for 2011. That’s the cheapest valuation since August.
The index is still up 2.8 percent for 2011.  The two-year Treasury yield increased four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 0.44 percent. Bonds remained lower
after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S.
debt ceiling shouldn’t be used as a bargaining chip to force
budget cuts.  Default Swaps Retreat  The cost of protecting U.S. corporate bonds from default
fell the most in almost three months. The Markit CDX North
America Investment Grade Index decreased 2.75 basis points from
the highest level since Oct. 19 to a mid-price of 96.75 basis
points, according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.
Investors use the benchmark to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness.  Copper climbed 3 percent to $4.1735 a pound in New York,
rebounding from a four-day slump. China is the biggest buyer of
industrial metals. Oil increased 2.1 percent, the most in almost
four weeks, to $99.37 a barrel. Seventeen of the 24 materials
tracked by the S&P GSCI Index advanced, while corn, wheat,
natural gas and soybeans dropped at least 0.9 percent for the
biggest declines.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.8 percent as almost
six stocks gained for each that fell. Solarworld AG and Q-Cells
SE advanced at least 4 percent after Handelsblatt reported that
LDK Solar Co., a Chinese maker of solar panels, is seeking
acquisitions in  Germany . Ericsson AB advanced 1.7 percent after
agreeing to buy Telcordia for $1.15 billion. Benchmark indexes
in Spain,  Italy , Germany and  France  advanced at least 1.4
percent.  China ‘Fear’ Eased  The Shanghai Composite Index rallied 1.1 percent, its
biggest gain of the month. China’s industrial production topped
the 13.1 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey, while
fixed-asset investment quickened and inflation accelerated to
the fastest pace in almost three years. Equities pared some
gains after the People’s Bank of China said it will raise the
reserve-requirement ratio for banks by 50 basis points.  “Fear about Chinese statistics was such that outcomes
about in line with economists’ expectations prompted equity and
commodity buying and U.S. Treasury futures selling,” analysts
led by  Charles Diebel , head of market strategy at Lloyds Bank
Corporate Markets in  London , wrote today in a note.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 0.9 percent, poised
for the biggest gain since May 31. Taiwan’s Taiex Index rose 1.3
percent and  South Korea ’s Kospi rallied 1.4 percent.  Division Over  Greece   Greek bonds slid as European finance chiefs were divided
on how to involve private investors in a second bailout for
Greece and stave off the euro area’s first sovereign default
without running afoul of the  European Central Bank .  The extra yield investors demand to hold Greek 10-year
bonds instead of benchmark German bunds rose to a record 1,446
basis points, or 14.46 percentage points. Greece’s borrowing
costs rose as it sold 1.625 billion euros of 26-week bills,
mostly to domestic buyers. S&P downgraded the country’s rating
yesterday three levels to CCC, the world’s lowest credit rating,
saying nation is “increasingly likely” to face a debt
restructuring.  Spain ’s two-year note yield slipped two basis points to
3.41 percent. The nation sold 5.4 billion euros of 12- and 18-
month bills, compared with a maximum target of 5.5 billion euros
set by the Treasury. Its 12-month borrowing costs rose to 2.695
percent from 2.546 percent in May. Italy auctioned 3.5 billion
euros of five-year bonds at 3.9 percent, up from 3.77 percent
last month, while  Belgium  raised 3.39 billion euros from an
auction of bonds, the most in 11 months, as yields declined.  The cost of insuring European corporate bonds fell, after
surging to a three-month high. The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index
of credit-default swaps on 40 mostly junk-rated companies
dropped 10.4 basis points to 394, after climbing to the highest
since March 17 yesterday.  The Swiss franc weakened against all 16 major peers, losing
1 percent against the dollar and 1.2 percent versus the euro.
The Swiss government lowered its forecast for 2012 economic
growth and said a further appreciation of the franc poses risks
to the outlook.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  