-- 
Everbright Bank Seeks $6 Billion in Hong Kong Share Sale

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-06-14T04:44:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/everbright-bank-seeks-6-billion-in-h-k-ipo.html
China  Everbright Bank Co. is seeking
about $6 billion in what could become  Hong Kong ’s biggest share
sale this year, as it joins bigger rivals in raising money to
cope with stricter capital rules and expand lending.  Everbright Bank began today to gauge investor demand for
the offering of 10.5 billion shares, according to a term sheet
obtained by Bloomberg News. The Beijing-based bank plans to set
a final price on July 8 and start trading on July 15.  Chinese lenders in April were ordered to conduct stress
tests on real estate loans, demand faster repayment on some
borrowings and increase deposits set aside as reserves to the
highest level in at least two decades. Everbright Bank, listed
in Shanghai, is seeking funds as the benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI) 
in Hong Kong fell 4.8 percent this month.  “We have yet to see any particularly strong selling points
for Everbright Bank,” said Li Kwok-suen, a  fund manager  at
Phillip Capital Management (HK) Ltd. “Everbright Bank may have
to work hard to line up cornerstone investors and accept
relatively low valuation to make its stock attractive.”  Everbright Bank rose 1.2 percent to 3.47 yuan at 11:29 am
in Shanghai, giving the lender a market capitalization of 140
billion yuan ($22 billion). The price represents about 1.72
times book value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Twelve banks listed in Hong Kong currently trade at 1.64
times price to book value, on average. Based on Everbright
Bank’s  Shanghai  price, 10.5 billion shares are worth 36.4
billion yuan.  Hong Kong IPOs  IPOs in Hong Kong have raised $11 billion this year,
compared with $5.9 billion in the same period in 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. If successful, Everbright’s
offering would top Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Holding Co.’s share
sale last month, which raised $2.1 billion including the sale of
over-allotment shares.  The offering by Everbright, China’s ninth-largest bank by
market cap, may also be bigger than Prada SpA’s Hong Kong share
sale, which could raise as much as $2.6 billion later this week.  Everbright Bank said profit for the year ending Dec. 31
should be at least 16.9 billion yuan, an increase of 32 percent
from last year, according to a  pre-listing document  posted on
the Hong Kong exchange today.  Proceeds of the stock sale will be used to “increase
capital adequacy,” the terms show. The lender joins rivals
including  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. in raising
money to finance loan growth and cope with capital rules.  Pricing Range  For deals greater than $1 billion in size in Hong Kong this
year, the $1.5 billion IPO of MGM China Holdings Ltd. was the
only one priced at the top end of its expected range.  China International Capital Corp.,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
 BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, BOC International Holdings Ltd.,  China
Everbright Ltd. (165) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
 Shenyin Wanguo HK Ltd. (218)  and Daiwa Capital Markets HK Ltd. are
managing the sale, according to the term sheet.  Everbright Bank will become the 10th Chinese lender to list
in Hong Kong. The company in August raised $2.8 billion in an
initial public offering in Shanghai, after cutting the size of
the sale by 30 percent as the Shanghai Composite Index slumped.  A spokesman for Everbright Bank declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mohammed Hadi at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net  