-- 
Ex-Buckeye Quarterback Pryor Apologizes for Role in Ohio State Scandal

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-06-14T19:51:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/ex-buckeye-quarterback-pryor-apologizes-for-role-in-ohio-state-scandal.html
Former Ohio State University
quarterback Terrelle Pryor apologized to teammates, coaches and
fans for his role in the violations that led to the resignation
of coach Jim Tressel and an investigation into the school’s
football program.  “I say sorry to all of Buckeye nation and all the Buckeye
fans across the country,” Pryor said during a news conference
today with agent Drew Rosenhaus. “I never meant to hurt anybody
directly or indirectly with my conduct off the field, and I am
truly sorry.”  Pryor hired Rosenhaus yesterday and will pursue a National
Football League career. Pryor said last week he’d skip his
senior year at Ohio State and enter the NFL’s supplemental
draft.  Pryor was one of five Ohio State football players suspended
in December for five games next season for selling team
memorabilia to a Columbus, Ohio, tattoo parlor owner. The
 National Collegiate Athletic Association  and Ohio State also are
investigating whether Pryor received cars and other benefits in
violation of NCAA rules, the Columbus Dispatch reported May 29.  Tressel stepped down as Ohio State’s coach on May 30 after
an NCAA investigation found he failed to tell the school what he
knew about the players’ off-field violations. Tressel, who was
106-22 with a national championship in 11 years at the Columbus
school, was previously suspended for the first five games of the
2011 season and fined $250,000.  ‘Like a Father’  “I love you just like a father,” Pryor said of Tressel.
“You taught me a lot. I apologize for putting you in a
situation and taking you out of a job and place you love to be.
I regret the fact that you’re not here anymore and the fact that
I’m not here anymore.”  The supplemental draft, held for players who miss the
filing deadline for the  NFL Draft  in April or have complications
involving NCAA eligibility, will be held next month if there are
any applicants, ESPN reported on June 1, citing an unidentified
league official.  Pryor compiled a 31-4 record as a starter at Ohio State
while leading the Buckeyes to three Big Ten conference titles
and wins in the Sugar Bowl and  Rose Bowl .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  