-- 
Ex-Siemens Board Member Charged Over Argentina Bribery Payments

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-06-14T13:49:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/ex-siemens-board-member-charged-over-argentina-bribery-payments.html
A former  Siemens AG (SIE)  management board
member was charged by Munich prosecutors with three counts of
alleged breach of trust related to bribery payments by company
officials in  Argentina .  The executive was involved in the payment of bribes to
former Argentinean government officials with whom several
Siemens units had done a deal in the 1990s, Munich prosecutors
said in a  statement  on their website today. The alleged
violations took place while he was on the management board of
 Europe ’s largest engineering company from 2000 to 2007.  “This led to the payment of a total of $9.5 million in
2003 out of the slush fund to several phoney companies,” the
prosecutors said in the statement. A slush fund was then
replenished with about $6.2 million that was diverted until
March 2005 “through bogus contracts from Siemens AG’s
fortune.” The prosecutors said the accused had a Munich meeting
with a middle man from the Argentinean government in November
2003. This also resulted in payments of $4.7 million over bogus
contracts, according to the statement.  The Siemens corruption scandal that broke in 2006 triggered
investigations in at least a dozen countries. Siemens agreed to
pay $1.6 billion to settle probes in the U.S. and  Germany  in
2008. Probes against other managers, including former management
board members Uriel Sharef and Heinz-Joachim Neubuerger, are
continuing. Earlier this year, former Siemens management board
member Thomas Ganswindt was the first senior executive to go on
trial for failing to halt bribes paid in Nigeria and  Russia .  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  reported on June 11 that Sharef is the
subject of the allegations in today’s statement. A call and an
e-mail to Heiko Lesch, a lawyer for Sharef, weren’t immediately
returned.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  