-- 
Jon Huntsman Jr. to Seek Republican Presidential Nomination

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-06-14T18:10:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/ex-utah-governor-huntsman-said-to-seek-republican-presidental-nomination.html
Jon Huntsman Jr., a former Utah
governor who President  Barack Obama  appointed as his first U.S.
ambassador to China, said today that he is planning to formally
announce his Republican presidential bid next week.  Huntsman will make the announcement June 21 in New Jersey’s
 Liberty State Park , where  Ronald Reagan  gave a Labor Day  speech 
in 1980 with the Statue of Liberty as his background when he was
competing for the presidency, said a Huntsman aide who was not
authorized to discuss the schedule.  “I intend to announce that I will be a candidate for the
presidency a week from today,” Huntsman said at an event on
China relations in New York City sponsored by  Thomson Reuters 
that also featured former U.S. Secretary of State  Henry Kissinger .  Huntsman’s plans were previously reported by the Associated
Press.  Huntsman, 51, stepped down as ambassador at the end of
April. When he was sent to China in 2009, it was billed as an
example of Obama’s commitment to bipartisanship. It was also
viewed by some as a way to neutralize a Republican who might be
interested in running for president in 2012.  Obama hasn’t hesitated to remind audiences of Huntsman’s
link to his administration. He called him “my buddy” during an
April 30  speech  at the White House Correspondents Association
dinner in  Washington , an event both men attended. At a
Washington dinner in March, Obama said, “As his good friends in
 China  might say, he is truly the yin to my yang. And I’m going
to make sure that every primary voter knows it.”  McCain Co-Chairman  In 2008, Huntsman was co-chairman of Republican Senator
John McCain’s unsuccessful presidential campaign. He learned to
speak Mandarin Chinese during a Mormon mission in Taiwan during
his college years and previously was ambassador to  Singapore  for
former President George H.W. Bush, a Republican.  In recent weeks, Huntsman has been traveling to early
primary states such as  South Carolina  and  New Hampshire ,
measuring support for a potential run. He has said he doesn’t
plan to compete in Iowa, the state scheduled in February to hold
the first nomination balloting, citing his opposition to
subsidies for corn-based ethanol as too much of a political
hurdle in a state with a large agriculture base.  Huntsman is the eldest of nine children born to billionaire
businessman and philanthropist Jon Huntsman Sr., who helped
create the plastic egg carton and the clamshell container for
the Big Mac sandwich sold by  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)   Plastics and Chemicals  The family’s global plastics and chemical company, Salt
Lake City-based  Huntsman Corp. (HUN) , has about 12,000 employees
worldwide and had 2010 revenue of $9.25 billion, according to
the company’s  website .  Huntsman, who was starting his second term as governor when
he took the ambassador’s job, has said that he doesn’t intend to
use his family’s fortune to finance his campaign.  “Unless you can raise it legitimately, you don’t win,” he
told reporters May 6 after meeting with South Carolina Governor
Nikki Haley. “I learned that running for governor.”  On May 3, Huntsman created a federal political action
committee, an action that let him start raising money to hire
aides and travel the country to explore a potential bid.  Nationally, just 2 percent of Republicans and Republican-
leaning independents expressed a preference for him in a Gallup
 poll  released May 26 with a margin of error of plus or minus
four percentage points.  Civil Unions  After being elected governor in 2004, Huntsman was
criticized by some in his own party for supporting civil unions
for gay couples and for making Utah part of a regional alliance
aimed at developing goals to cut greenhouse-gas emissions.  He has a bachelor’s degree in international politics from
the  University of Pennsylvania  and served as a White House staff
assistant to Reagan. Huntsman is the father of seven, including
an adopted daughter from China and an adopted daughter from
 India .  His campaign will be based in Orlando, Florida. The state
is critical for the Republican primary and general elections,
and it will host the 2012 Republican National Convention.
Huntsman’s wife, Mary Kaye, grew up in the Orlando area and has
family living there.  The field of Republican candidates seeking to challenge
Obama is starting to take shape.  Besides Huntsman, former Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty,
former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, former Senator Rick Santorum
of  Pennsylvania , U.S. Representative Ron Paul of Texas, former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota are seeking the nomination. Herman Cain,
the former chief executive officer of Godfather’s Pizza Inc.,
and former New Mexico Governor Gary Johnson have formally joined
the Republican race.  Other potential candidates include Governor Rick Perry of
 Texas  and former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, the party’s 2008
vice presidential nominee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago, at   jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  