-- 
Ex-Villain Goldman Is Reborn as Today’s Victim: William D. Cohan

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-06-14T04:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/ex-villain-goldman-is-reborn-as-today-s-victim-william-d-cohan.html
You didn’t really think  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  would go down without a fight now did you?
Of course not. So it should come as little surprise that
recently Goldman has started to push back hard against its
nemesis, Senator  Carl Levin , Democrat of  Michigan , and his
narrative that the firm is the lead villain of the
financial crisis.  In its new mission, Goldman has been very careful not
to take on Levin directly -- after all he remains a very
powerful figure in Congress and incurring his further wrath
would be plain silly. Instead, the firm has taken its case
to the court of public opinion, through a series of
orchestrated presentations with members of the mainstream
business press and to at least one Wall Street research
analyst.  Aside from pointing out that Levin’s  Permanent
Subcommittee  on Investigations got a number of facts wrong
in its  650-page report  about the financial crisis -- a
legitimate point -- the gist of Goldman’s argument has been
that, unlike every other Wall Street firm, before, during
and after the financial meltdown, Goldman was nothing more
than a simple market-maker that happened to corral a few
extra bucks in 2007 by being a prudent manager of risks.  Remarkably, given how adversarial the news media have
been toward Goldman for the past two years -- ever since
the firm’s name appeared near the top of the  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  counterparty list (Goldman got $14
billion in taxpayer dollars in the AIG bailout) -- the bank
has been scoring some points lately. You could watch the
whole play develop.  On the Offense  On June 6, Liz Rappaport of the Wall Street Journal
 wrote  that Goldman was intent on taking on Levin, perhaps
by releasing exculpatory documents on its website. “Even if
the documents aren’t made public,” Rappaport wrote, “they
could be used by Goldman to defend itself in ongoing
investigations that appear to be linked to the Senate
subcommittee’s report.”  Goldman hasn’t made its internal analysis public, nor
does it intend to, but it has showed the documents around
town (including to me). For instance, in one document,
“reviewed by The Wall Street Journal,” Rappaport continued,
“the Senate subcommittee failed to count billions of
dollars of bullish positions in mortgage-backed bonds and
CDOs when it calculated the firm’s overall holdings for
Feb. 26, 2007. Those bullish bets were large enough to
offset all of the bearish positions criticized by the
subcommittee.”  A Witch Hunt  The next day, Journal columnist Holman Jenkins fully
exonerated Goldman and  Lloyd Blankfein , its chief executive
officer, and said Levin was conducting a “ political witch
hunt ,” which he concluded, “happily … already seems to be
dying a deserved death.”  Also on June 7, Andrew Ross Sorkin of the New York
Times  discussed  Goldman’s new defensive posture in his
weekly opinion column. One might have expected a tough
line, considering his April 18 article in which he
 challenged Goldman  to come clean about its large bets
against the mortgage market starting in December 2006. (He
quoted me wondering why Goldman wasn’t admitting what it
did.)  If so, one was in for a surprise.  “The vampire squid haters won’t like this column,” his
defense of the bank began, with a riff on the phrase made
famous by Rolling Stone’s Matt Taibbi. He noted that he had
been “talking with executives at Goldman, who pointed me to
other documents” and had “come to a different and perhaps
unsatisfying conclusion for those readers looking for a big
scalp.”  Not Cooking Anything  He then pointed out a few of the mistakes in Levin’s
report, and spoke at length to Robert Roach, the
congressional investigator who wrote the report for Levin.
Roach admitted mistakes had been made but insisted they
were innocent: “We weren’t trying to cook anything.”  Sorkin’s column concluded that the firm wasn’t
massively net short the mortgage market in 2007 -- as Levin
contends -- and that it was simply being prudent about its
exposure to mortgage risk. “This isn’t meant to say that
part of the firm didn’t go short -- it did and the firm has
repeatedly said so,” Sorkin wrote, paraphrasing Goldman’s
argument. “But the suggestion that the short was a huge
directional bet by the firm to profit off a real estate
collapse may not completely stand up.”  A Moral Cudgel  Not surprisingly, Taibbi didn’t much like Sorkin’s
defense of Goldman and  took up his cudgel . “I’ve been
trying not to say anything bad about  Andrew Ross Sorkin ,”
Taibbi wrote on his blog. “I even made a point of not
watching ‘Too Big to Fail’” -- the HBO movie made from
Sorkin’s book of the same name -- “so as not to get upset -
- and when I heard from friends that the film turned  Hank Paulson  into Joan of Arc, that decision seemed to have been
validated.”  He continued: “Now I’m bummed to see that Sorkin has
written an elaborate defense of Goldman in the New York
Times ‘Dealbook’ section, arguing among other things that
Lloyd Blankfein probably did not commit perjury and that
the bank did not have a huge directional bet against
mortgages in 2007.”  (Taibbi also pointed out that Goldman is a Dealbook
sponsor, though in fairness Goldman advertised on Dealbook
once in 2010 -- which hardly qualifies as a sponsor -- and
there is no evidence to suggest that Sorkin’s thinking has
been in any way swayed by the bank’s advertising dollars.
Indeed, Goldman has recently become a large advertiser in
many financial publications, as part of an effort to
burnish its image.)  Brief Mea Culpa  Goldman’s news media offensive reached an apotheosis
of sorts on June 8 when Dick Bove, the outspoken Wall
Street research analyst who had placed a sell rating on
Goldman’s stock after the Levin report came out, wrote a
brief mea culpa to investors -- after he, too, heard from
Goldman.  “It is becoming increasingly apparent that a terrible
wrong may have been done to Goldman Sachs,” Bove wrote.
“Evidence is now mounting that the company did not have a
net short position at a crucial time under study and that
the Senate Committee may have misread the numbers. It is
also becoming apparent that Mr. Blankfein did not
misrepresent to the Senate Committee because Goldman was
not net short at the time the firm was accused of
misrepresenting its position.”  Firm as Scapegoat  In an interview with me, Bove said he believed it was
important that “if you are wrong, to get out there quickly”
with a correction. He said he feels he owed an apology to
the bank. “Goldman Sachs is the scapegoat of our time,”
 Bove told  the Times. Wow.  What all this adds up to is a successful campaign of
obfuscation on Goldman’s part, something the firm has been
pretty darn good at through much of its 142-year history,
proving repeatedly that it can get out of the trouble it
gets into.  The fact remains that Goldman -- alone on Wall
Street -- was net short in the mortgage market for much of
2007 and one of its proprietary trading desks made about $4
billion as a result, helping the firm to book $17.2 billion
in pre-tax profits for the year, while the rest of Wall
Street was blowing up. Thanks to those enormous profits --
the second-best year in its history -- the top five
executives at Goldman split about $350 million in
compensation.  Another Big Short  Meanwhile, at the same time that it was undertaking
this “big short” -- as Goldman’s chief financial officer,
David Viniar, referred to it in an e-mail -- the firm
continued to package and sell mortgage-backed securities at
par to investors around the world. Is this illegal?
Probably not.  But it sure seems unethical to continue to make and
sell a product you believe will not perform as advertised,
and that is exactly what Goldman did until July 2007, when
the market for mortgage-backed securities collapsed after
the liquidation of the two Bear Stearns hedge funds that
had heavily invested in those securities.  Incredibly -- considering Viniar authorized the
decision to short the mortgage market in December 2006, in
his conference room -- Viniar also claimed, according to
CNBC, in written follow-up testimony to Levin’s committee
that he “was not personally involved in the transactions …
I also have no memory of any particular transactions or the
overall notional value of this position at any point in
time.” Please.  Placing the Squeeze  One other thing: At the same time that Goldman had in
place the “big short” against the mortgage market, it
marked down the value of the mortgage securities it had in
inventory -- taking its losses on them -- knowing full well
that it would more than compensate for those losses with
the gains it had on its large short positions. Goldman’s
low marks -- which were famously much lower than the rest
of Wall Street’s -- put a squeeze on other firms that
weren’t as clever as Goldman and didn’t have a net short
position on mortgages.  Not only did Goldman’s marks help drive down the value
of the securities in the market, exacerbating the collapse
of firms such as Bear Stearns, Merrill Lynch & Co. and AIG,
but also Goldman alone on Wall Street stood to benefit. Of
course, the firm informed nobody that it had the “big
short” going on while it was marking down its mortgage
portfolio.  Read the Report  Goldman effectively put a trade together that made the
firm billions of dollars of profit while at the same time
hastening the demise of its competitors. This is something
that neither Levin nor Goldman talk much about, although
the details can be found in the often-overlooked report of
the  Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission , on Page 237.  One day last year when I was in the middle of writing
my book about Goldman, I ran into Nassim Nicholas Taleb,
the author of the best-selling “The  Black Swan .” He took
out his pen and, on the spot, wrote me an aphorism, not
unlike those collected in his latest book, “The Bed of
Procrustes.”  “Goldman Sachs is an incredibly well-built machine to
capture that free option from society,” Taleb wrote. “They
have good lawyers and great penetration of the Gilded
Establishment. Unlike the Mafia.”  Something to think about.  (William D. Cohan is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 wdcohan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net  