-- 
Facebook Loses Bid to Immediately End Winklevoss Twins’ Lawsuit in Boston

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-06-14T07:33:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/facebook-loses-bid-to-immediately-end-winklevoss-twins-lawsuit-in-boston.html
A U.S. appeals court put on hold all
litigation between Facebook Inc. and twins Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, who claim  Mark Zuckerberg  stole their idea for the
social networking site.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in San Francisco yesterday agreed
to halt litigation related to the Winklevosses’ lawsuit until
they file a request with the U.S.  Supreme Court  seeking to
reverse the dismissal of their claims.  The Winklevoss twins, former Harvard University classmates
of Zuckerberg’s, want a 2008 settlement they reached with
Facebook to be voided because they claim it was procured through
fraud. They allege that Palo Alto, California-based Facebook
didn’t disclose an accurate valuation of its shares before they
agreed to the $65 million cash and stock settlement.  Facebook and the Winklevosses fought the dispute in federal
courts in San Francisco and  Boston . The court in  Massachusetts 
agreed to put its case on hold until the California court ruled
on it.  Facebook, in documents filed with the appeals court, said
the twins’ allegations before the Massachusetts court that the
company and Zuckerberg, its chief executive officer, failed to
produce legally required documents should be resolved because an
appeal to the Supreme Court has no merit.  The Supreme Court petition “should not stand in the way of
resolving the last meritless motion that will end this case once
and for all,” Facebook said in a filing.  The appeals court said in a decision in April that the
agreement between the Winklevosses and Facebook barred future
lawsuits and was “quite favorable” to the twins.  The case is The Facebook Inc. v. ConnectU Inc., 08-16745,
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  