-- 
Fairmont San Francisco Luxury Hotel to Be Put Up for Sale by Maritz Wolff

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-06-14T20:02:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/fairmont-san-francisco-luxury-hotel-to-be-put-up-for-sale-by-maritz-wolff.html
The Fairmont San Francisco hotel, a
591-room luxury property in the city’s Nob Hill neighborhood, is
being put up for sale, said Heather Turner, vice president of
acquisitions at  Maritz, Wolff & Co. , its co-owner.  The lodging investor today hired Hodges Ward Elliott Inc.,
an Atlanta-based brokerage, to market the property in the next
several months, Turner said. The listing won’t have an asking
price, she said. Maritz Wolff owns 50 percent of the hotel, with
Saudi billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal holding the rest.  The Los Angeles-based hotel company, founded in 1994 by Lew Wolff and Philip “Flip” Maritz, has been unable to get city
permission to convert a portion of the hotel into a residential
tower. Flip Maritz said in April that Maritz Wolff was
considering selling the property, in which the company acquired
its stake in 1998.  “Our desire to improve this Nob Hill property did not
materialize as we had hoped, and we are confident that perhaps a
different ownership will be able to implement the improvements
at the hotel, which we think will be beneficial to the city of
 San Francisco ,” Wolff, also co-owner of the Oakland Athletics
baseball team, said today in a telephone interview.  Maritz Wolff has cut its number of hotels to nine,
including the Carlyle in  Manhattan , from almost 50 a decade ago.
The closely held company said in April it’s seeking to return
$500 million to investors in the next four years.  The firm’s acquisition of the Fairmont San Francisco was
part of a purchase that included several other Fairmont hotels,
including properties in  Dallas  and  New Orleans , Wolff said.
Maritz Wolff sold the Dallas hotel in 2006 and the one in New
Orleans the following year,  according  to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  