-- 
U.S. Regulators Approve Rule Setting Capital Floor for Banks

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-06-14T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/fdic-votes-to-approve-final-rule-setting-capital-floor-for-biggest-banks.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
board approved a measure barring the largest U.S. lenders from
reducing capital levels below baselines set for smaller banks as
part of a joint rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act.  FDIC board members voted 5-0 today to enact the rule, which
will also hold large financial holding companies to the same
capital requirements as their deposit-taking subsidiaries. The
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the  Federal
Reserve  announced their approval in an interagency statement.  The measure, included in the regulatory overhaul at the
request of U.S. Senator Susan Collins of  Maine , prevents lenders
from lowering capital holdings using formulas in the Basel II
international banking accords. Without such a floor, banks and
their holding companies would have been allowed to reduce
capital levels over time.  “Today’s rule implements the Collins amendment, which in
my view is the single most important provision of the Dodd-Frank
Act for strengthening the capital of the U.S. banking system and
leveling the competitive playing field,” FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair  said in a statement.  The rule by itself won’t require lenders to hold additional
capital, since all U.S. banking companies are already computing
 capital requirements  using the rules that would serve as the
floor, Bair said. It does, however, ensure that “when the
crisis is forgotten and models again tell us that risks and
needed capital are minimal, that large banks will not be allowed
to operate with less capital than Main Street banks,” she said.  The rule will take effect 30 days after it is published in
the Federal Register.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  