-- 
Fed’s Fisher Reiterates Central Bank Has Done Enough to Help U.S. Economy

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-06-14T03:03:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/fed-s-fisher-reiterates-central-bank-has-done-enough-to-help-u-s-economy.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas 
President  Richard Fisher  reiterated his view that the central
bank has done enough to support the  U.S. economy  and indicated
he won’t support a third round of quantitative easing.  “The worst outcome of all would be for the Fed to continue
monetizing the debt,” Fisher, 62, said today during a speech in
Dallas. “We’ve been doing that since November.”  The regional bank chief represents a Fed district with an
economy that accelerated last month, in contrast to four of the
central bank’s 12 regions, according to the Fed’s  Beige Book 
survey released on June 8. Fisher has said this year that he’ll
be among the first Fed officials to push for a reversal of
record monetary stimulus as needed.  “We’ve done enough,” Fisher said in a speech to the
Chartered Financial Analysts Society of Dallas-Fort Worth. “I
will not support our doing more.”  Unexpectedly weak economic data, including news that
payrolls grew in May at the slowest pace in eight months, have
increased the odds the central bank will hold its main interest
rate near zero into 2012. The Fed hasn’t indicated what its next
policy step will be after completing a $600 billion bond-buying
program this month.  “The last batch of data is disappointing and it is causing
us to rethink our outlook for growth for the remainder of the
year,” Jeffrey Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Richmond, said to reporters after a speech today. “We could be
stuck below trend for some time,” he said.  Lacker, who votes on monetary policy next year, said he
plans to revise his forecast for 2011 growth to below the 3.5
percent to 4 percent he expected in January. He declined to give
a new forecast.  Sales Decline  Retail sales fell 0.5 percent in May in the first decline
in 11 months, according to the median forecast of 81 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s Commerce Department
report.  Record monetary stimulus is still needed to spur the U.S.
recovery, Bernanke said on June 7 in Atlanta. Fed officials are
scheduled to meet in  Washington  on June 21-22.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rebounded today from an
almost three-month low, climbing 0.1 percent to 1,271.83 in  New
York . Treasury two-year note yields were little changed at 0.40
percent today after dropping last week for a ninth straight
week.  Fisher said it’s “highly unlikely” that the yuan will
displace the dollar as the world’s main reserve currency in a
“reasonable time frame,” and that it will take a long time for
the U.S. housing market to work off its excess inventory.  Spur Growth  Fed policy makers have tried to spur growth by holding the
main interest rate near zero since December 2008 and expanding
the Fed’s balance sheet to $2.79 trillion. The economy grew at a
1.8 percent annual rate in the first quarter and is forecast to
expand 2.5 percent for the year, based on the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Employers added a less-than-projected 54,000 jobs last
month, and the U.S. jobless rate unexpectedly climbed to 9.1
percent from 9 percent in April, Labor Department figures showed
on June 3.  The economy expanded at a “steady pace” in most of the
U.S. last month while slowing in four of 12 regions as consumers
contended with higher food and fuel prices and shortages of
parts reduced auto production, according to the Beige Book. A
lack of clarity over future tax and regulatory policies is
inhibiting economic growth, Fisher said in response to an
audience question.  The Dallas Fed characterized its region as accelerating,
with improvements in accounting, legal and financial services.
In addition, more firms in the bank’s district expect to add to
payrolls within months, the survey said.  The Fed’s focus should be on  price stability  and headline
inflation, rather than core inflation, said Fisher, who also
added he supports the idea of an explicit inflation target.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  