-- 
Federal Reserve Will Not Implement a QE3 Program, Bloomberg Survey Shows

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-06-14T08:30:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/federal-reserve-will-not-implement-a-qe3-program-bloomberg-survey-shows.html
The  Federal Reserve  will refrain
from initiating a new round of stimulus upon the conclusion of
its $600 billion bond-buying program this month, according to a
survey of foreign-exchange professionals.  About 65 percent of the respondents at the Bloomberg FX
Summit in  London  last week predicted the Fed’s second round of
so-called quantitative easing will be its last, the survey
showed. Thirty-nine percent anticipate the end of QE2 will
affect inflation, with half expecting no effect, according to
the results.  Fed policy makers have tried to spur growth by holding the
main interest rate near zero since December 2008 and expanding
the Fed’s balance sheet to $2.79 trillion. Fed Bank of Dallas
President Richard Fisher yesterday repeated his view that the
central bank has done enough to support the  U.S. economy  and
indicated he won’t support a third round of quantitative easing.  “Most people thought there was traction in the economic
growth that we’re seeing and while that might slow temporarily,
we still have enough to continue to grow from where we are right
now,” Tod Van Name, Bloomberg’s global business manager for
foreign exchange and economics, said in an interview.  Employers added a less-than-projected 54,000 jobs last
month, and the U.S. jobless rate unexpectedly climbed to 9.1
percent from 9 percent in April, Labor Department figures showed
on June 3. The economy grew at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the
first quarter and is forecast to expand 2.5 percent for the
year, based on the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  ‘Reserve Currency’  More than two-thirds of FX Summit respondents predicted
 China ’s yuan will be a “reserve currency in the future,” with
32 percent saying it will happen in five to 10 years and 26
percent expecting it to require more than a decade, according to
the results.  “They’re slowly seeing that the acceptance of the markets
for trading renminbi offshore was quite strong and can be quite
orderly,” said Van Name. “Maybe five years or 10 years is not
so unrealistic.”  In a separate question, 46 percent of respondents said the
cost of increased foreign-exchange regulation would be greater
than the benefits provided, the survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 