-- 
Fees Sap Mutual Funds Seeking Hedge-Fund Returns in Commodities

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   S r e e   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-06-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/fees-slam-savers-seeking-hedge-fund-cachet-in-commodities-futures-funds.html
Altegris Managed Futures Strategy
Fund, a mutual fund that allows less affluent clients to invest
with some of the best-known hedge-fund commodities traders, has
attracted $707 million since its start less than a year ago.  Investors in the fund lost 6 percent this year, and
plummeting gold, silver and oil prices weren’t the only reason.
The losses also reflect fees of as much as 2 percent of assets
paid to the underlying traders in addition to the fund’s 2
percent management fee and 5.75 percent in upfront charges. If
the fund had made a profit, as much as 35 percent of that would
also have gone to the underlying managers.  Investors in U.S. mutual funds, by contrast, paid 0.8
percent in average fees last year, according to data from
Morningstar.  “The fees are far higher than for less specialized
strategies,” said Nadia Papagiannis, an analyst with Chicago-
based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  “They’re promising the performance of
hedge-fund managers, but what we’ve seen with funds of funds is
that the performance is mediocre.”  Altegris Managed Futures and three similar products, the
MutualHedge Frontier Legends Fund, Princeton Futures Strategy
Fund and Grant Park Managed Futures Strategy Fund, have
attracted $1.3 billion since the end of 2009, offering access to
as many as 20 prominent  hedge funds  that buy and sell everything
from grain to gold to dollars, for as little as $2,500 in
initial investment. They also bring another feature of hedge
funds: high fees.  Investor Headwinds  Managed futures funds for retail investors have been around
since the 1970s, using computer-driven trading models to buy
futures contracts. They can bet on the advance or decline in
securities including stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities.
Some also invest in securities linked to specific events like
changes in the weather or interest rates.  An investor in MutualHedge Legends fund, whose six
underlying managers charge average fees of 0.64 percent of
assets and 24.55 percent of any gain, would have to make 12
percent in the first year to break even given all the fees.  The fund, which also includes a 5.75 percent sales load and
a 2 percent management fee, is up 0.7 percent this year,
compared with 2 percent, including dividends, for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. Since its inception on Dec. 31, 2009, the
Denver-based fund has returned 6 percent, not including the
sales-load fee, while the  S&P 500  has jumped more than 17
percent.  The Princeton fund, which has lost 1.8 percent this year,
charges 2.2 percent in annual operating expenses and a 5.75
percent sales load. The Grant Park fund, which is down 1.2
percent since Jan. 1, charges 1.95 percent in annual maintenance
fees and a 5.75 percent sales charge. Neither fund discloses how
much it pays its underlying managers.  Quant Stars  “Judging the performance of any investment over a six
month period is arbitrary,” said Jon Sundt, president and chief
executive officer of  La Jolla , California-based Altegris
Investments Inc. “The real question is how will it perform over
time. And with managed futures, they have stood the test of
time.”  The S&P 500 rose 1 percent between July 2000 and March
2011, compared with an annual gain of 8.2 percent for managed
futures, Altegris said.  Two of the funds invest with David Harding, whose $20
billion Winton Capital Management LLC has returned an average 17
percent a year since 1997, according to an investor, who asked
not to be identified because the London-based firm’s returns
aren’t public.  Offshore Exemption  Three of the funds use Jaffray Woodriff’s $4.6 billion
Quantitative Investment Management LLC , based in
Charlottesville, Virginia. That fund has gained an average of
13.5 percent since it was founded, according to another investor
who also requested not to be identified.  Because the underlying traders bet on rising as well as
falling prices, their performance doesn’t tend to move in lock-
step with stock and bond markets, said Matthew Osborne, co-
portfolio manager of the Altegris fund.  In 2008, the worst year for stock performance in seven
decades, an Altegris-run futures index that tracks the
performance of 40 such managers rose 15.5 percent, Osborne said.  Still, investors may be surprised at how little is left for
them after each manager’s cut. The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission requires most mutual funds that invest in other
managers to disclose so-called acquired-fund fees and expenses
at the front of the offering document. The futures funds are
exempt because they invest through off-shore subsidiaries, which
don’t fall under the SEC’s purview, according to Morningstar’s
Papagiannis.  ‘Loosened Up’  The four funds note the additional fees under the “Risks”
section of their prospectus. In the case of Altegris Managed
Futures Strategy, that’s on page 16 of the mutual fund’s 32-page
 document .  Chicago-based Grant Park and Denver-based Mount Yale Asset
Management LLC, which runs the Princeton Futures fund, don’t
provide details on the size of the underlying fees.  Representatives of the Altegris, MutualHedge and Grant Park
funds said their hands were tied when it came to disclosing fees
since SEC policy at the time the funds were created prevented
them from listing additional charges in the disclosure tables. A
spokesman for the Princeton Futures fund referred questions to
JoAnne Strasser, an attorney who has worked for the firm.  Strasser, who specializes in mutual funds for Thompson Hine
LLP in Cincinnati, said the SEC has relaxed its policy in recent
months and funds are now allowed to list the extra expenses in
footnotes. “The SEC has recently loosened up so we may see more
disclosure as a result of that,” Strasser said in a telephone
interview.  Contradictory Rules  Kevin Callahan , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to
comment.  Morningstar lists 13 mutual funds in the managed futures
category, only four of which are subject to additional fees
because they invest in underlying managers. The others either
track indexes or employ in-house managers.  The  U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission  is weighing a
proposal to regulate funds that use swaps, derivatives and
futures to invest in commodity markets.  The rules proposed in January would require mutual-fund
operators to register as a commodity pool if they hold more than
5 percent of a portfolio in commodity futures, options or swaps,
or market such investments to the public. They would have to
clearly disclose all fees, as well as follow other rules that
now apply only to private funds.  Opposition From Funds  Swaps are financial instruments in which two parties
exchange the benefits of securities that they own. Futures are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date, and
often are bought as a bet on price fluctuations and sold before
the delivery date. Options give their buyers the right to buy or
sell a security at a set price, without the obligation to do so.  Mutual funds have protested, saying that the proposed
change will subject them to two sets of sometimes contradictory
rules.  Altegris’ Osborne said he’s in favor of more disclosure and
more regulation of managed-futures mutual funds.  “We are in 100 percent support as the SEC and the CFTC
seek to harmonize their rules,” Osborne said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  