-- 
Fiat Won’t Risk Credit Rating Cut to Buy Chrysler Stake, Marchionne Says

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-06-15T08:13:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/fiat-won-t-risk-credit-rating-cut-to-buy-chrysler-stake-marchionne-says.html
Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  said the Italian carmaker won’t risk a credit-
rating downgrade to gain full ownership of Chrysler Group LLC.  “We can’t jeopardize the rating of Fiat,” Marchionne told
reporters late yesterday in Gavi, Italy, at a presentation of
the Freemont sport-utility vehicle. “The easiest route” is an
initial public offering at Chrysler instead of an outright
purchase of the stake Fiat doesn’t currently own.  Fiat was placed under review for a possible downgrade by
Moody’s Investor Services and Fitch Ratings in April after the
carmaker announced plans to raise its Chrysler stake.
 Standard & Poor’s  lowered its long-term corporate  credit rating 
on the carmaker to BB in February and confirmed its “negative
outlook.” All Fiat’s ratings are below investment grade.  The automaker, based in Turin,  Italy , last month
consolidated Chrysler’s results, a sign of the rapid integration
of the two since the  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based manufacturer
exited bankruptcy in June 2009. S&P said in April its “negative
outlook” reflected the “very substantial” operating and
financial risks related to increased Chrysler exposure.  A share sale at Chrysler, as opposed to a purchase of the
remaining shares, would mean less direct risk exposure for Fiat.
Marchionne said yesterday he’s not in talks to acquire the
United Auto Workers retiree health-care trust fund’s stake in
the U.S. automaker. An IPO of Chrysler isn’t on tap for this
year, he added.  “The market is not there” for a share sale, he said in an
interview.  Shares Drop  Fiat fell as much as 5 cents, or 0.7 percent, to 7.28 euros
and was down 0.3 percent to 7.31 euros as of 10:11 a.m. in Milan
trading. The shares have gained 9.1 percent this year, valuing
the carmaker at 8.94 billion euros ($12.9 billion).  Fiat, which was initially granted a 20 percent stake in
Chrysler by the U.S. government, aims to hold 57 percent of the
third-biggest U.S. automaker by the end of 2011. The UAW trust
will have 41.5 percent of Chrysler at that time, Fiat said.  Fiat agreed June 3 to pay $500 million for the U.S.
government’s remaining 6 percent stake in Chrysler, boosting its
holding to 52 percent. The CEO expects to receive an additional
5 percent stake in the fourth quarter in return for developing a
fuel-efficient car for Chrysler.  UAW Stake  Fiat has also made an offer to buy Canada’s 1.5 percent
holding in Chrysler for $125 million and has acquired the U.S.
government’s rights to buy the shares held by the UAW’s retiree
trust, also known as VEBA.  “Marchionne may wait to see how Fiat and Chrysler cash
generation develops and then decide whether to buy the VEBA
stake or go for an IPO,” said Massimo Vecchio, a Mediobanca Spa
analyst in Milan who has an “outperform” rating on Fiat.
“Strong  cash flow  at Fiat and Chrysler are crucial to finance
the call options exercise and to enhance company value.”  Marchionne also said that a listing of Ferrari SpA, Fiat’s
most profitable unit, isn’t currently on the table, while it’s
“always a possibility.”  Fiat has enough liquidity and has “no urgency” to issue
new bonds, Marchionne said. The Italian carmaker this week
confirmed its financial targets for 2011, including net income
of about 300 million euros and its plan to sell 6 million cars
with Chrysler by 2014.  Chrysler Push  Marchionne is pushing Chrysler this year to raise its
global sales by 32 percent to 2 million vehicles and turn an
annual profit of $200 million to $500 million. Chrysler last
month posted a first-quarter net income of $116 million, its
first since emerging from bankruptcy in 2009. Global sales
during that period increased by 18 percent.  Marchionne said that Fiat isn’t interested in buying
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Adam Opel unit. German magazines  Der
Spiegel  and Auto Bild reported on June 9 that GM is prepared to
sell Opel as losses at the European division persist. Fiat was a
suitor for Opel when it was for sale in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt, in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  