-- 
First Quantum’s Kansanshi Mining May Spend $900 Million Raising Production

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-06-14T14:42:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/first-quantum-s-kansanshi-mining-may-spend-900-million-raising-production.html
First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) ’s
Kansanshi Mining Plc, which operates  Africa ’s largest copper
mine in Zambia, may spend about $900 million increasing
production over the next three-to-four years as prices climb.  The sum includes a $370 million expansion underway to boost
output to 400,000 metric tons by 2015 from an estimated 259,000
tons this year, Sean Whittome, Kansanshi’s general manager, said
today in an interview at the site near Solwezi in the country’s
northwest. A proposal to build a smelter at a cost of about $500
million may go before the company’s board in October, he said.  First Quantum plans to spend about $1 billion building a
mine at its Trident project at Kalumbila, west of Kansanshi on
the country’s so-called copperbelt, the richest source for the
metal in Zambia, which is Africa’s largest producer.  Rivals including  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) ’s Konkola Copper
Mines and Glencore International Plc’s Mopani mine are also
expanding output as prices for the metal, used in wiring and
pipes, gains.  Copper rose 36 percent in  London  in the past year as
 China , the biggest copper consumer, led increased demand from
Asian nations.  Zambia plans to more than double production to 2 million
tons of copper by 2015. Rising output in Zambia, as well as the
U.S., Chile and  Canada , will probably boost global output 8
percent through 2013, Patricia Mohr, a commodity market
specialist at Scotia Capital, said on June 8.  Paying for Processing  The proposed smelter may process about 1.2 million tons of
concentrate, yielding about 400,000 tons of copper, Whittome
said. Kasanshi currently pays rivals to process some of its
concentrate.  Kansanshi, bought by First Quantum from Phelps Dodge 10
years ago, is doing “aggressive” exploration that will likely
prove the mine can produce for more than 20 years, compared with
the current projection of 13 years, mine manager Meiring Burger
told reporters at the site today. The company is using 18 drill
rigs, he said.  “By the end of next year, there will probably be
significantly more that 20 years,” Burger told reporters.
 Zambia ’s state-owned ZCCM Investment Holdings owns 20 percent of
Kasanshi, which also produces gold, and First Quantum the rest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  