-- 
Florida Lawyer Admits to Role in $1.2 Billion Rothstein Investment Fraud

-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 
2011-06-14T19:11:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/florida-lawyer-admits-to-role-in-1-2-billion-rothstein-investment-fraud.html
A  Florida  attorney pleaded guilty in
federal court to aiding Scott Rothstein in a $1.2 billion
investment scheme involving fake court settlements.  Howard Kusnick, formerly of Rothstein’s  Fort Lauderdale  law
firm, pleaded guilty today before U.S. District Judge Kenneth Marra in  West Palm Beach , Florida, to a single count of
conspiracy to commit wire fraud. Kusnick, 59, had pleaded not
guilty earlier this month. Prosecutors today said they agreed to
recommend a prison sentence of 24 to 30 months.  Rothstein pleaded guilty in January 2010 to five counts of
racketeering,  money laundering  and wire fraud, admitting he sold
investors interests in bogus settlements in sexual-harassment
and whistleblower suits. He was sentenced to 50 years in prison.  Prosecutors said Kusnick wrote a letter claiming to have
settled a pending case in a client’s favor when the case had
never been filed and no settlement existed.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Kaplan had no comment after
the hearing. Kendall Coffey, a lawyer for Kusnick, also declined
to comment. Kusnick remains free on bond. His sentencing is set
for Sept. 2.  Plea Hearings  Curtis Renie and William Corte, information technology
employees of Rothstein’s firm; and Stephen Caputi, an associate
of Rothstein’s, are scheduled for change-of-plea hearings this
month, according to case dockets. They had previously pleaded
not guilty to conspiracy to commit  wire fraud .  Caputi attended meetings with potential investors in the
scheme, acting as a banker or as a plaintiff in fictitious
suits, prosecutors said. Renie and Corte created a Web page
designed to look like it belonged to a bank so investors would
think Rothstein’s law firm held as much as $1.1 billion in trust
accounts, prosecutors allege.  Each faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison.  The cases are U.S. v. Kusnick, 11-60125, U.S. v. Caputi,
11-60124, U.S. v. Renie, 11-60123, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in West Palm Beach, Florida, at   susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  