-- 
Forget About Hoover Dam and Other Job-Growth Lessons: Ron Klain

-- B y   R o n   K l a i n
-- 
2011-06-14T04:01:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/forget-about-hoover-dam-and-other-job-growth-lessons-ron-klain.html
When I worked in the Obama White
House, one of my most important assignments was to help oversee
implementation of the  American Recovery and Reinvestment Act ,
commonly known as the stimulus. The measure met its major
objectives, hitting spending targets on time, keeping down waste
and fraud, and surpassing the goal of saving or creating 3
million jobs. Yet it never won favor with the public.  In defending it, the most common question I heard from
friends and foes was something like: “Why didn’t you guys just
do what FDR did, and build another Hoover Dam?”  Even my administration colleagues sometimes expressed
Hoover Dam nostalgia as they grew disappointed that the act’s
signature initiatives such as solar and wind power, high-speed
rail, a smarter  power grid  and electric car battery plants
failed to rally the public. No one cares about the small
projects, I was often told. So why wasn’t the answer to start
another mega-project like the Hoover Dam? And why isn’t it the
right policy now, with the  unemployment rate  so stubbornly high?  First, it’s important to understand how small a role giant
construction projects played in ending the Great Depression.
Millions of Americans were employed by the Works Progress
Administration and the Civilian Conservation Corps on scores of
discrete projects, including reclaiming land, constructing
federal buildings, planting windbreak trees, erecting park
lodges and paving park roads. The spectacular mega-endeavors
that we now associate with the New Deal were actually a small
part of the overall program.  Granddaddy Project  The  Hoover Dam , the granddaddy of them all, provided jobs
for only 5,200 people at its peak employment level. The
 Tennessee Valley Authority ’s signature Wheeler and Norris dams
employed even fewer people, about 4,000 each.  That may sound like a lot, but given that the U.S. lost 1.5
million jobs in the two months before President  Barack Obama 
took office, any such project would barely have made a dent. To
employ just the people who lost jobs in those two months -- and
not the millions more who lost them before or after -- we would
have had to build 300 Hoover Dam-sized projects.  Which brings us to the next point:  Who wants that? Yes,
the U.S. has a dramatic need to update its infrastructure, with
s ome estimates  putting the cost at $2 trillion.  Existing Infrastructure  Yet the vast majority of these needs are repairs and
improvements to existing roads, bridges, dams and rails -- the
kind of projects that we did finance with Recovery Act funds --
each of which creates a relatively small number of jobs, and
none of which are head-turning landmark enterprises.  As for dams specifically, though some people may miss the
old days, there are many who believe that building more would be
harmful to the environment. Indeed, these days, there are
probably as many proposals to  tear down dams  as there are to
build new ones.  As a developed country with a mature infrastructure network
and a desire to preserve our remaining green space, there are
only so many major new dam, road and bridge projects (as opposed
to repairing existing ones) that we need. What’s more, major
infrastructure projects take years from conception to
construction, making them an ill-fitting short-term answer for
our employment woes.  There is another reason Hoover Dam nostalgia is misguided:
Improvements in technology, equipment and management mean that
projects we undertake today create far fewer jobs than projects
did in the New Deal era. Endeavors that took hundreds of people
in the 1930s are now completed by a few dozen workers using
state-of-the-art equipment and techniques.  Bypass Bridge  The most compelling comparison comes from the recently
completed  Hoover Dam Bypass  bridge. For decades, the top of the
Hoover Dam was a major roadway, but after the Sept. 11 attacks,
planners began an effort to close the dam to traffic, and build
a parallel bridge about 1,500 feet to the south.  The 2,000-foot bypass took 10 years and cost $250 million,
about half as much (in constant dollars) as the original dam.
But the new span employed no more than 1,000 workers at any
time, one-fifth the Hoover Dam’s peak level. Great earth-moving
machines, sophisticated cranes and precision construction
equipment allowed far fewer workers to do the same tasks that
were done by scores of laborers with picks and shovels in an
earlier era. Modern managers with computer-coordinated schedules
moved workers on and off the job on a just-in-time basis that
kept staffing levels tight.  Lower Cost  This was true of countless Recovery Act programs throughout
the country. Taxpayers should be pleased to know that the
stimulus program delivered more infrastructure projects, more
quickly, at a lower cost, than early projections suggested. But
this efficiency meant that these projects often created fewer
jobs than one might have imagined.  The very first Recovery Act undertaking was a bridge
spanning the Osage River in  Missouri , to replace a New Deal era
structure from 1933. Desperately needed, the project was a
success: finished under budget, ahead of schedule and meeting a
serious need. Laudable in every respect, it directly employed  18
workers  at its peak.  Our infrastructure needs are real, and improvements in this
area are critical to long-term economic growth: good airports,
roads, bridges and rails increase our national competitiveness,
lower costs of transporting goods and encourage investment.  Road-Building  Yes, infrastructure projects create jobs. But even by the
administration’s own estimate, the number of jobs created or
saved by $25 billion in Recovery Act spending on roads was a
mere 150,000 over a two-year period. That isn’t a trivial
number, but it’s hardly a game changer for an economy that needs
to create 5 million jobs each year just to keep the unemployment
rate constant.  In the short run, more jobs can be created with initiatives
like the  payroll tax  cut the administration is reportedly
considering. In January, the administration extended a 2
percentage-point reduction in worker contributions to the tax
during 2011. The new proposal would cut employers’
contributions, too, making it easier and cheaper for them to add
workers, with an incremental contribution from federal revenue
(as opposed to full federal funding for an infrastructure
project). In the long run, federal kick-start investments in
industries that need time to take off, such as clean cars, wind
and solar power, advanced manufacturing, and high speed rail,
are more likely to create permanent jobs.  The U.S. needs jobs, and better bridges, roads and dams.
But it’s time to let go of the idea that a handful of marquee
construction projects, even majestic and lasting ones, can solve
our employment problem. Such endeavors alone didn’t bring us out
of the Depression in the 1930s, and they won’t end our current
predicament.  ( Ron Klain  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Rklain@Bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  