-- 
Free Republicans From the Middle-Class Tax Trap: Ramesh Ponnuru

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-06-14T04:01:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/free-republicans-from-the-middle-class-tax-trap-ramesh-ponnuru.html
For more than 30 years Republicans
have won elections by promising to cut middle-class taxes, or at
least to stop middle-class tax increases. No domestic issue has
been as reliable a vote-winner. But now Republicans are in a
bind. The huge deficit makes tax-cut promises seem impractical.  They also worry that cutting middle-class taxes will leave
high earners paying an even larger share of income taxes than
they already do, and that increasing their burden will harm both
economic growth and the cause of limited government.  That seems to leave two options for Republicans. There’s
 the approach  favored by presidential candidate  Tim Pawlenty ,
which is to pretend that economic growth and unspecified
spending cuts will let us reduce taxes without making the
deficit worse. Then there’s the flat tax and the so-called fair
tax favored by other Republicans, which go the other route: Some
versions would actually increase middle-class taxes. Neither
type of proposal is at all likely to be enacted.  There’s a better alternative, one that might serve the
public interest in having a simpler, more efficient  tax code .
When Republicans began their tax-cutting streak in the 1980s,
middle-class voters were upset about high and rising income-tax
rates. Now, millions of them pay more in payroll taxes than in
income taxes. But Republicans have had little to say about those
taxes.  Unfair to Families  The  payroll tax , now set at 15.3 percent of wages for most
people, finances Social Security and Medicare. Although those
programs’ troubles have been in the news a lot, one problem with
them has received little attention: They’re unfair to families.
As  Robert Stein  explained in a  recent essay  for National
Affairs, parents contribute to the programs both by paying
payroll taxes and by making financial sacrifices to raise the
children who will pay tomorrow’s payroll taxes. But they only
get credit for the first set of contributions.  Stein’s solution is to offer parents tax relief, by
expanding the tax credit from $1,500 per child to something
closer to $5,000. A family with two kids would use the credit to
wipe out $10,000 of tax liability (assuming they owed more than
that in payroll and income taxes). It would be a huge  tax cut 
for millions of middle-class families.  Of course, cutting taxes in this way would mean a big
revenue hit for the federal government, especially if combined
with such pro-growth measures as cutting the corporate tax rate.
There are two ways to make up the revenue. The first is to scale
back tax breaks. The deduction for state and local tax payments,
which is a subsidy from people in low-tax states to people in
high-tax states, should go. Ideally, they would all go, except
for the ones for charitable donations and savings. (In practice,
the mortgage-interest deduction is probably unkillable. But its
value should be reduced.)  Top Tax Bracket  The second way to make up revenue is by lowering the floor
on the top tax bracket. The point of this wouldn’t be just to
get more people paying the top rate. It would also mean that
people who are already paying the top rate would pay it on more
of their income. Widen the bracket sufficiently, and eliminate
enough tax breaks, and there might even be enough money to bring
that top rate down a bit.  A  tax reform  that tries to raise as much revenue as the
current system, and without relying on assumptions that the
economy will take off, is by definition going to inflict some
pain. Stein’s plan would mean a larger tax bill for people who
are childless, affluent or live in high-tax states. In many
cases, though, it would be a temporary hit, because people often
move or become first-time parents.  Strong Incentives  The average tax rate would not have to rise. The top
marginal rate, which supply-siders regard as the most important
tax rate, wouldn’t rise either. The rich would pay more, in
other words, but their incentive to work, save and invest would
be as strong as ever.  Expanding the  child tax credit  would take a lot of people
off the tax rolls, and many Republicans have convinced
themselves that people who stop paying taxes start voting for
big government. But the child credit wouldn’t take people off
the tax rolls forever, just while they have minors in their
households. And if any group of voters is going to be mindful of
the future, it’s parents. So conservatives shouldn’t worry.  Democrats, too, should find something to like. They have
made two central objections to tax cuts over the last
generation: that they recklessly increase the deficit and that
they unfairly shower rewards on the rich. Neither objection
applies to this tax reform.  Scaling Back Tax Breaks  It could be implemented in a way that left revenue
unchanged. And it would have three progressive elements: scaling
back tax breaks that tend to get used more by the affluent,
expanding a credit that is more important to middle-income than
upper-income taxpayers, and increasing the amount of high
earners’ pay that is subject to the top tax rate. The effect
would be to redistribute the tax burden upward.  There would still be plenty to argue about. Liberals would
want to increase the tax rates to raise more money than the
current code, and conservatives would want to cut spending and
tax rates. Still, we would have a  tax code  that does more to
satisfy both liberals and conservatives than the one we have
now. And middle-class families would come out way ahead. Some
young people who have been waiting for the financial stability
to start a family, or expand one, might have the confidence to
go ahead.  So what’s not to like? If Republicans have tired of cutting
taxes for middle-class families, maybe Democrats should adopt
the idea.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 