-- 
Gasoline Rises to 2-Week High on Retail Sales Report, Outages

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l   a n d   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-06-14T20:16:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/gasoline-rises-as-chinese-inflation-accelerates-to-3-year-high.html
Gasoline jumped to a two-week high
as U.S. retail sales topped estimates, easing concern the
economic recovery has stalled, and on speculation unplanned
refinery outages will reduce supplies.  Futures rose the most in five weeks as sales at retailers
slipped 0.2 percent, less than the 0.5 percent drop in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. Gasoline also gained after
unit shutdowns at two Texas refineries and at a Canadian plant
that serves the  New York  Harbor market.  “You have a strong retail sales report and refinery
shutdowns are probably adding fuel to the fire,” said  Sander Cohan , an analyst with Energy Security Analysis Inc. in
Wakefield,  Massachusetts .  Gasoline for July delivery gained 6.78 cents, or 2.3
percent, to settle at $3.0646 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It was the highest settlement since May 31
and the largest increase since May 10.  The drop in U.S. retail sales followed a 0.3 percent
increase in April that was less than previously reported.
Excluding the biggest slide in auto sales in more than a year,
purchases in May climbed 0.3 percent.  Irving Oil Corp. suffered a  power failure  affecting several
units at its Saint John refinery in New Brunswick at about 11:30
a.m. local time, Jennifer Graham, a spokeswoman for the New
Brunswick Department of the Environment, said in an e-mail.  Valero, BP  Valero Energy Corp. has been running its 310,000-barrel-a-
day refinery in  Port Arthur  at reduced rates since a June 6
lightning strike.  BP’s 475,000-barrel-a-day Texas City refinery, which had
returned one catalytic cracker to normal operations on June 8,
today reported a second of the gasoline-making units had an
unplanned shutdown.  That report “is what got the market started,” said  Tom Knight , vice president of trading and supply at Truman Arnold
Cos. in Texarkana,  Texas . Additionally, “the dollar is a little
weaker, equities stronger.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped 1.3 percent after
the retail report and crude oil in New York rose the most in a
month.  The dollar weakened a second straight day against the euro,
raising the investment appeal of commodities. The U.S. currency
lost 0.4 percent versus the euro as of 3:21 p.m. in New York.  Regular gasoline at the pump fell 0.7 cent to $3.696
yesterday, according to AAA data on its website, the lowest
level since April 4.  Heating oil for July delivery gained 2 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $3.1258 on the Nymex.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  