-- 
Germany Looks at Sprout Seeds, Farm Workers for E. Coli Disease

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-06-14T14:18:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/germany-looks-at-sprout-seeds-farm-workers-for-e-coli-disease.html
German authorities are investigating
whether a month-old outbreak of E. coli stemmed from infected
seeds used at a sprout farm or whether a worker at the business
was infected and spread bacteria to the sprouts.  “The farm imported their seeds from different countries in
 Asia  and  Europe  and the first option we’re looking at is whether
the seeds were already contaminated,” Natascha Manski, a
spokeswoman for the German state of Lower Saxony, where the
sprout farm is located, said by phone today. “The second option
is that one of the employees took the bacteria into the farm.”  The world’s deadliest-ever outbreak of E. coli has killed
at least 36 people and infected 3,332, mainly in Germany, the
 European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control  said on its
website today. Germany lifted a warning against eating raw
tomatoes, cucumbers and lettuce on June 10 after concluding that
tainted vegetable sprouts caused the E. coli infection.  The city of Hamburg, branded by German officials as the
epicenter of the outbreak, is advising residents to avoid eating
all sprouts, including home-grown ones, because the seeds used
to produce the vegetables  may be the cause  of the outbreak.  So far, 1,053 people in Hamburg have been infected with
enterohemorrhagic E. coli bacteria, known as EHEC, while 181
have contracted its potentially fatal kidney complication, known
as hemolytic uremic syndrome, or HUS, the city-state said in a
statement today. The number of EHEC cases rose by 14 in the past
24 hours, with no new HUS patients, it said. The growth in new
cases continues to slow, officials said.  Possible Source  Lower Saxony has identified organic sprouts from the
Gaertnerhof Bienenbuettel farm near Uelzen, Germany, about 35
miles (56 kilometers) southeast of Hamburg, as a possible source
of the outbreak. Produce from the farm has been recalled and its
customers informed.  The neighboring state of North Rhine-Westphalia said on
June 10 that investigators of a local household’s outbreak made
the first link of the aggressive O104 E. coli bacteria strain to
sprouts produced at the  Lower Saxony  site.  Gaertnerhof  makes sprouts based on a variety of vegetables
and has about 18 employees, according to its website. Some of
the workers have fallen ill, officials have said.  “One of our topics is to focus on the products the
employees of the farm have eaten with a focus on different kinds
of sprouts, and also to conclude which employees got the disease
and the ones that didn’t,” Thomas Spieker, a spokesman for
Lower Saxony’s Health Ministry, said by phone from the state
capital, Hanover.  “While nobody knows how these sprouts were infected, it is
also a possibility that the seeds were contaminated,” Spieker
said. “The warning against eating all raw sprouts in  Germany  is
still valid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  