-- 
Glencore Agrees to Buy Peru Copper Project

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-06-14T06:07:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/glencore-agrees-to-buy-peru-copper-project.html
Glencore International Plc, the
world’s biggest publicly traded commodities trader, made an
initial agreement to buy  CST Mining Group Ltd. (985) ’s Peruvian copper
project for $475 million, according to CST.  Glencore, based in Baar,  Switzerland , will own 70 percent
of the Mina Justa copper project after the two companies signed
the accord on June 9, Hong Kong-based and Bermuda-incorporated
CST said today in a statement. A call to Glencore’s office in
Switzerland after normal business hours wasn’t answered.  The agreement would give Glencore control of deposits in
southern  Peru  with a resource base of 3 million metric tons of
contained copper, as a lack of discoveries prompts producers to
expand through acquisitions.  “It highlights that Glencore has a clear intent to use the
leverage it has been afforded by the new listing to acquire,”
James Bruce, who helps manage about $3.5 billion at Perpetual
Ltd., said by phone from Sydney. “That it is wasting no time is
testament to it backing itself to add value.”  CST rose 19 percent to 23.2  Hong Kong  cents at 1:42 p.m.
local time. Glencore climbed 2.3 percent to HK$66.50, taking its
gains to 2.5 percent since its initial public offering in Hong
Kong and  London  last month.  The deal may be completed on or before Oct. 15, subject to
Glencore conducting due diligence and shareholder approval, CST
said.  Glencore was studying a takeover of Eurasian Natural
Resources Corp., a producer of metals in  Kazakhstan , the Sunday
Times reported June 12.  Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg held talks
with shareholders controlling about 45 percent of Eurasian
Natural and may offer 12 billion pounds ($19.7 billion), the
Sunday Times said yesterday, citing a person it didn’t identify.
Glencore is a potential buyer of Kazakhmys’s stake in Eurasian
Natural, Liberum Capital Ltd. said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  