-- 
Glencore Profit Adds 47% as Global Demand Growth Fuels Raw-Material Prices

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-06-14T06:53:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/glencore-profit-adds-47-as-global-demand-growth-fuels-raw-material-prices.html
Glencore International Plc, the
world’s largest listed commodities trader, said first-quarter
profit rose 47 percent on higher prices for raw materials and
stronger global demand.  Net income adjusted for items increased to $1.3 billion,
from $886 million a year earlier, the Baar, Switzerland-based
company said today in a statement. Sales climbed 39 percent to
$44.2 billion, it said.  Glencore completed a $10 billion initial public offering
last month, selling stock in  London  and  Hong Kong  in the world’s
biggest IPO this year. Commodity trading conditions have been
“very favorable” this half and Glencore’s earnings potential
is “underappreciated” by the market, Deutsche Bank AG said in
a June 6 report in which the bank recommended buying the stock.  “Our first-quarter results show that Glencore continues to
deliver a strong return on equity, emphasizing the unique
benefits of having large-scale marketing and industrial asset
activities spread across a diversified commodity base,” Chief
Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said in the statement.  Glencore, which owns plants and mines as well as trading
operations, advanced 2.7 percent to 523.4 pence in London
yesterday, giving it a market value of 36.2 billion pounds ($59
billion). The stock has dropped 1.2 percent since debuting at
530 pence apiece on May 19.  IPO Ends Partnership  The company, which changed its name from Marc Rich & Co.
after management bought out former fugitive U.S. financier Marc Rich in 1994, has ended more than three decades of operating as
a closely held partnership.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
rose 15 percent in the first quarter and averaged 30 percent
higher than a year earlier. Glencore’s net income in the fourth
quarter was $1.26 billion, similar to the average quarterly
result posted in the record year of 2007, it said in March.  “Glencore remains well positioned for 2011,” the company
said in today’s statement. “Despite the recent commodity price
volatility, the directors believe that underlying fundamentals
across many of our key commodities are supportive and that
economic activity and demand for commodities remains healthy.”  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp., a producer of metals in
 Kazakhstan , advanced the most in seven months in London trading
yesterday after the Sunday Times said Glencore was studying a
takeover offer. Glasenberg said today that the company is “not
actively considering” a bid, speaking on a conference call.  Glencore said in April it planned to allocate about $5
billion from funds raised in the IPO to  capital spending  over
the next three years.  Glasenberg said today that Glencore had signed a memorandum
of understanding to acquire a Peruvian copper project belonging
to Hong Kong-based CST Mining Group Ltd. CST said earlier that
Glencore had signed an initial agreement for 70 percent
of the Mina Justa copper project for $475 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 