-- 
GM’s OnStar Asks FCC for More Testing of Falcone’s LightSquared

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-06-14T15:06:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/gm-s-onstar-asks-fcc-for-more-testing-of-falcone-s-lightsquared-network.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  asked U.S.
regulators for more testing of Philip Falcone’s LightSquared
Inc. wireless network after early trials interfered with vehicle
tracking through its OnStar system.  GM wants more testing of ways to mitigate LightSquared’s
interference of OnStar’s global-positioning system that can
track its 6 million subscribers’ vehicles in the event of
crashes and other emergencies, the Detroit-based automaker said
today in a letter to the Federal Communications Commission.  Makers and users of GPS devices from  Deere & Co. (DE)  to the
Defense Department have said Reston, Virginia-based LightSquared
may disrupt GPS signals used by mobile phones, aircraft and
military equipment. The service, which proposes serving 260
million wireless devices using airwaves once reserved primarily
for satellites, may disrupt marine navigation, and concerns have
been raised that it may affect air traffic control, the House
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee said  last week .  GM’s test data show that “harmful interference” of GPS
devices by LightSquared “is no longer speculative, but rather
is a serious issue that should be thoroughly investigated and
resolved,” Thomas Jeffers, OnStar vice president for public
policy, and Nikola Pudar, OnStar vice president for business
development, said in the letter to FCC Secretary Marlene Dortch.  LightSquared signals disrupted GM’s OnStar and GPS devices
used by the Defense Department in 46 tests, a Federal Aviation
Administration official told a government advisory board last
week. The tests of GPS receivers were conducted in laboratories
and outdoors, Deane Bunce told the National Executive Committee
for Space-Based Positioning, Navigation & Timing, known as PNT.  OnStar Tests  OnStar found evidence of LightSquared’s network disrupting
its GPS system in April during testing at Holloman Air Force
Base in  New Mexico , according to the letter.  “We’d love to be part of that testing and validation and
we believe there is potential mitigation solutions specifically
geared toward that bandwidth that’s being used out there,”
Vijay Iyer, an OnStar spokesman, said today in a telephone
interview.  GM’s OnStar, which provides subscribers with accident
alerts, directions and vehicle diagnostics, said solutions
include moving the LightSquared service to airwaves further from
those used by GPS. Bunce, who co-chairs an engineering forum
that advises PNT, said last week that it may take 7 to 15 years
and “considerable expense” to change GPS receivers to
accommodate LightSquared.  Falcone’s Backing  LightSquared, which is backed by Falcone’s Harbinger
Capital Partners hedge fund, received a waiver from the FCC on
Jan. 26 allowing the company to proceed while a working group
studies possible interference. That panel, which includes GPS
users, LightSquared executives and federal officials, is
scheduled to deliver a final report by tomorrow.  The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee
announced last week a June 23 joint hearing into LightSquared by
two subcommittees. The network will operate over a network of
40,000 terrestrial towers.  “We have to work with the GPS community to make sure that
we can live in an optimal way with other users of the
spectrum,” Sanjiv Ahuja, chief executive officer of
LightSquared, said in a “Bloomberg West” interview on June 10.
“GPS is a very critical part of our own network in designing
and building it. We’re absolutely confident we’ll build a
solution that works with them.”  The LightSquared network is to be ready for commercial
service by early 2012, and is to cover 100 million people by the
end of next year, Jeff Carlisle, executive vice president of
regulatory affairs for LightSquared, said in a June 1 conference
call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 Todd Shields  in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at   aholmes25@bloomberg.net  