-- 
BofA, Goffer, Janus, Barclays, Wal-Mart, EBay in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-06-14T10:21:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/goffer-janus-barclays-wal-mart-ebay-abbott-in-court-news.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest
U.S. lender, “significantly hindered” a federal review of its
foreclosures on loans insured by the Federal Housing
Administration, the U.S. said.  The bank was slow in providing data and offered incomplete
information, according to the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development inspector general’s office, which conducted
the review. The bank cooperated with the office,  Dan Frahm , a
company spokesman, said.  “Our review was significantly hindered by Bank of
America’s reluctance to allow us to interview employees or
provide data and information in a timely manner,” William
Nixon, an assistant regional inspector general for the agency,
said in a sworn declaration.  The declaration, dated June 1 and obtained yesterday by
Bloomberg News, was filed as an exhibit in a lawsuit by the
state of Arizona against the Charlotte, North Carolina-based
bank. Arizona, which is seeking to interview former Bank of
America employees, accuses the bank of misleading homeowners who
were seeking mortgage modifications.  Federal agencies and attorneys general from all 50 states
are investigating the way banks service mortgage loans and
conduct foreclosures. The group is in settlement talks with the
five largest mortgage servicers, including Bank of America,
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  New York  Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  is
investigating mortgage practices and the packaging and sale of
loans to investors, according to a person familiar with the
matter. Bank of America is included in that probe along with
other banks, bond insurers such as MBIA Inc. and trustees for
pools of mortgage loans that were securitized.  The HUD inspector general’s report on Bank of America,
which hasn’t been made public, was prepared “in light of
possible future litigation,” according to Nixon’s declaration.
Nixon, who works in Fort Worth, Texas, couldn’t be reached for
comment.  “Bank of America fully cooperated with the HUD Office of
the inspector general’s review of mortgage servicing practices
and any suggestion otherwise is both inaccurate and inconsistent
with how we work with all regulators,” Frahm said.  The case is Arizona v. Countrywide Financial Corp.,
CV2010-033580, Arizona Superior Court, Maricopa County.  For more, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Ex-Galleon Trader Zvi Goffer Convicted of Insider Trading  Former Galleon Group LLC hedge fund trader Zvi Goffer was
convicted on all counts by a federal jury in Manhattan in the
second trial to result from the U.S. government’s nationwide
crackdown on insider trading.  Goffer’s brother Emanuel and Michael Kimelman were also
found guilty of conspiracy and securities fraud yesterday by a
jury that began deliberations June 2. The verdict comes about a
month after Goffer’s boss, Galleon co-founder Raj Rajaratnam,
was found guilty in the same courthouse of directing the biggest
hedge fund insider trading scheme in history.  Rajaratnam and Zvi Goffer were key players in what
prosecutors said were three overlapping insider-trading
conspiracies that implicated banks, technology firms, hedge
funds and so-called expert networking firms.  Goffer, 34, his brother and Kimelman were charged with
using tips from two lawyers to profit on trades in 3Com Corp.,
Axcan Pharma Inc., Kronos Inc. and Hilton Hotels Corp. Jurors
heard recordings of wiretapped phone calls and testimony from
witnesses who pleaded guilty in the case and were cooperating
with the government.  Prosecutors said the three men, who co-founded Incremental
Capital LLC after Zvi Goffer was fired by New York-based Galleon
in 2008, used information that the lawyers, then working at the
Boston-based law firm Ropes & Gray LLP, learned about pending
acquisitions through their work there.  Zvi Goffer’s lawyers argued their client sometimes bluffed
about having inside information to impress other Wall Street
traders. Lawyers for Emanuel Goffer and Kimelman said that their
clients weren’t part of any alleged conspiracy with Zvi Goffer.  They face as long as 20 years in prison on the most serious
charges. Zvi Goffer’s sentencing is set for Sept. 21; the other
two defendants are scheduled to be sentenced Oct. 7. All
defendants remain free on bond pending sentencing.  “We’re disappointed in the verdict,” said William Barzee,
a lawyer for Zvi Goffer. “It was a difficult case.” He said
his client will appeal.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Mutual Fund Shareholder Suits Curbed by U.S.  Supreme Court   A divided U.S. Supreme Court threw out a suit against  Janus
Capital Group Inc. (JNS)  in a ruling that will limit the ability of
shareholders of mutual fund companies to press securities fraud
suits.  The court, voting 5-4 along ideological lines, yesterday
 said  shareholders can’t sue Janus and a subsidiary for helping
produce allegedly misleading prospectuses for Janus mutual
funds. The majority said that the funds are separate legal
entities and that neither the parent company nor the subsidiary
were responsible for the prospectuses.  “The mutual funds industry is breathing a big sigh of
relief today because the spillover consequences of a broad
definition of who makes a prospectus could have been huge,”
said Robert Skinner, a Ropes & Gray LLP attorney in Boston
specializing in investment management litigation.  The case was a follow-up to a 2008 Supreme Court decision
that curbed securities suits against a company’s banks and
business partners. In his opinion for the court yesterday,
Justice Clarence Thomas said the shareholders were seeking to
“create the broad liability that we rejected” in the 2008
case.  Justices Stephen Breyer, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Sonia
Sotomayor and Elena Kagan dissented.  “The relationship between Janus Management and the fund
could hardly have been closer,” Breyer wrote for the group.
“Janus Management’s involvement in preparing and writing the
relevant statements could hardly have been greater. And there is
a serious suggestion that the board itself knew little or
nothing about the falsity of what was said.”  “We are delighted that the Supreme Court has agreed with
our position that only the person ultimately responsible for a
statement can be sued for fraud in a private class action under
Rule 10b-5,” said Janus’s high court lawyer, Mark Perry of
Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP in Washington.  The case is Janus Capital Group v. First Derivative
Traders, 09-525, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Barclays Will Pay U.K. Customers’ Payment Insurance Claims [bn:WBTKR=BARC:LN]   Barclays Plc (BARC)  [] will reimburse the full payment-protection
insurance premiums plus 8 percent interest to customers whose
claims were put on hold during a court challenge.  The bank will compensate customers sold payment-protection
insurance without being told they could buy it from another
lender, Barclays said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The
 British Bankers’ Association , an industry group, lost a court
challenge in April to the Financial Services Authority’s PPI
guidelines.  Barclays,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  were given more time to handle the customer
complaints by the FSA yesterday after the court challenge
created a backlog. Barclays said in May it would set aside 1
billion pounds ($1.63 billion) to resolve the claims.  “Barclays made a commitment to process all on-hold PPI
complaints as soon as practicable,” the London-based bank said.
“We have said before that when we get things wrong, we
apologize, and work hard and work fast to put them right as
quickly as possible.”  The banks have as much as 16 weeks to respond to the
complaints, rather than eight weeks, the Financial Services
Authority said in a statement yesterday.  Edinburgh-based RBS said in May it would earmark 850
million pounds to deal with the claims, after already making a
previous provision of 100 million pounds. Lloyds, the biggest
provider of PPI, set aside 3.2 billion pounds for the
complaints. HSBC Holdings Plc said it estimated its liability at
$440 million.  For more, click here.  Wal-Mart Loses Appeal of $187 Million Verdict in Worker Suit  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, lost
its appeal of a $187.6 million verdict in a case accusing the
company of denying Pennsylvania workers rest and meal breaks.  A three-member appeals court panel ruled June 10 that there
was “sufficient evidence” in the record to conclude Wal-Mart
violated state wage laws for contractual rest breaks. The court
ruled that the trial court must recalculate more than $45
million in attorneys’ fees in the case.  “Wal-Mart’s own internal audits revealed violations of
company policies regarding missed breaks and work off-the-
clock,” the panel said in a 211-page opinion.  The verdict is the largest against Wal-Mart over missed
breaks, Michael Donovan, an attorney for the Pennsylvania
workers said. Wal-Mart agreed to pay as much as $640 million in
2008 to settle more than 60 federal and state lawsuits over
similar claims.  Former Wal-Mart employees Dolores Hummel and Michele Braun
sued the company in state court in Philadelphia over claims they
were pressured by store managers to skip breaks and cut meals
short. Lawyers for the women argued that the company made
workers skip more than 33 million rest breaks from 1998 to 2001
to boost productivity and cut labor costs.  Wal-Mart argued on appeal that the trial court erred in
certifying a class of about 187,000 current and former employees
and refusing to dismiss claims under the state wage laws.  Greg Rossiter, a spokesman for Bentonville, Arkansas-based
Wal-Mart, said yesterday that the retailer is committed to
paying employees for every hour they work and providing them
with meal and rest breaks.  “That’s our policy and we take it very seriously,”
Rossiter said in a phone interview. “In this case, we believe
the trial court’s decision was wrong in a number of respects and
we look forward to additional review in the courts.”  Donovan called the ruling a “well-reasoned decision in
support of workers’ rights.”  The Pennsylvania cases are Braun v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,
3373 EDA 2007, and Hummel v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 3376 EDA
2007, Superior Court of Pennsylvania.  EBay Settles Investor Suits Over GSI Commerce Purchase  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , owner of the largest e-commerce market, agreed
to pay about $24 million to resolve investor lawsuits over its
$2.4 billion acquisition of online marketing firm  GSI Commerce
Inc. (GSIC)   GSI shareholders will receive 33 cents a share in addition
to EBay’s $29.25-a-share offer under the settlement, the
companies said yesterday in a statement. Investors will get the
settlement money when the acquisition closes, which is expected
on June 17, the companies said.  EBay Chief Executive Officer John Donahoe, two years into a
three-year campaign to revive sales growth amid competition from
Amazon.com Inc., said GSI will help him better connect buyers
and sellers when he announced the transaction in March. GSI,
based in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, has long-term commerce-
services relationships with retailers and brands, EBay said.  GSI provides e-commerce and marketing services to over
2,000 brands such as Toys “R” Us, the National Football League
and Polo Ralph Lauren, according to court filings.  As part of the transaction, EBay will divest all of GSI’s
licensed sports-merchandise business, which provides e-commerce
operations for all the major U.S. sports including the NFL, and
70 percent of online-retail sites Rue La La and ShopRunner,
court papers show.  EBay officials said they were selling those assets to NRG
Commerce LLC, a company set up by GSI Chief Executive Officer
Michael Rubin, because they aren’t part of its core long-term
growth strategy.  Some GSI shareholders, including the Erie County Employees
Retirement system, a pension fund, and the Southeastern
Pennsylvania Transportation Authority, which operates trains and
buses in the Philadelphia area, filed suit in Delaware Chancery
Court earlier this year to challenge the buyout.  Disgruntled GSI investors contend the company’s board sold
the marketing firm too cheaply and loaded the deal with terms
that favored EBay’s bid.  The case is In RE GSI Commerce Inc. Shareholder Litigation,
CA 6346, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  EFG Ordered to Pay $2.3 Million Over Unauthorized Trades  EFG International AG (EFGN) , the Swiss bank controlled by Greek
billionaire Spiro Latsis and his family, was ordered by a
Singapore judge to pay $2.3 million to a client for making
unauthorized and high-risk trades in her account.  Ng Ton Yee, a former EFG employee, made 160 unauthorized
trades in Jiang Ou’s account with the bank in Singapore,
incurring a loss of $2.3 million, Judge Steven Chong wrote in a
high court  ruling  released yesterday.  The bank had argued that Jiang, a Chinese citizen who
opened a S$5 million ($4 million) account in 2008, was aware of
the trades as she had received the transaction statements. Jiang
said she didn’t get all the trading confirmation slips,
according to the judgment.  “It is plainly unreasonable that a bank should be able to
shift the risk of unauthorized transactions by a fraudulent
employee to an innocent customer,” Chong said.  Jiang was represented by Lawrence Quahe & Woo LLC and
Premier Law LLC acted for the bank.  The case is Jiang Ou v EFG Bank AG S1055/2009 in the
Singapore High Court.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Abbott Sued Over Claim Humira Caused Fungal Infection  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  was sued by a Tennessee advertising
executive who claimed its top-selling arthritis drug Humira
caused a life-threatening fungal infection.  Frederick Delano, 69, was diagnosed in February 2009 with
disseminated histoplasmosis, according to a complaint filed June
12 in federal court in Memphis, Tennessee. In a May 2010  warning
letter  to doctors, Abbott said some Humira patients are at risk
of developing the fungal infection.  “But in 2008, Fred and his physicians got no warning
whatsoever that the medication which he thought would help
could, in fact, kill him -- and nearly did,” Delano and his
wife, Frances, said in the complaint.  In September 2008, 26 days before Delano’s first dose of
Humira, according to his complaint, the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration ordered the Abbott Park, Illinois-based drugmaker
to warn patients and doctors of an increased risk of potentially
fatal Humira-induced histoplasmosis.  “Humira has more than 12 years of clinical and safety data
and best-in-class efficacy,” Adelle Infante, an Abbott
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail last month in response to a
lawsuit claiming Humira caused a New York woman’s optical nerve
damage. “The therapeutic risks associated with Humira,
including disorders of the nervous systems, are well known and
documented in the prescribing label.”  Infante didn’t immediately respond to a telephone call or
e-mail yesterday seeking comment on the new lawsuit.  The case is Delano v. Abbott Laboratories, 2:11-cv-2475,
U.S. District Court, Western District of Tennessee (Memphis).  For more, click here.  Columbia Sportswear Files Antitrust Complaint W.L. Gore  Columbia Sportswear Co. (COLM) , the U.S. maker of outdoor clothing
and footwear, said it filed a European Union complaint against
Gore-Tex maker W.L. Gore & Associates Inc. for allegedly abusing
its dominant market position.  W.L. Gore violates EU competition rules in its sale of
waterproof “breathable membranes” for footwear and gloves,
Columbia and its Italian subsidiary, OutDry Technologies, said
yesterday in a statement. The complaint was filed with the
Brussels-based European Commission, which regulates competition
in the 27-nation EU.  Columbia has “long been concerned that W. L. Gore &
Associates’ commercial practices systematically prevent
consumers, brand owners and manufacturers from gaining access to
competing product innovations,” the Portland, Oregon-based
company said in the statement.  The  U.S. Federal Trade Commission  in March subpoenaed W.L.
Gore seeking documents covering a 10-year period as part of an
investigation into whether the company used unfair contracts or
exclusionary practices. W.L. Gore in April filed a  request  to
quash the government request, saying it was “outrageously
overbroad and burdensome.”  A message left at W.L. Gore’s headquarters in Newark,
Delaware, wasn’t returned.  For the latest new suits news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Chiesi, ‘Virtual Servant’ to Kurland, Seeks a Lower Sentence  Danielle Chiesi, the former New Castle Funds LLC analyst
who pleaded guilty to insider trading, asked a judge to sentence
her to less time than her former boss,  Mark Kurland , claiming he
used their sexual relationship to turn her into a “virtual
servant” to feed him inside tips.  Chiesi asked U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell for less
prison time than the 27 months Kurland received last year after
pleading guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud. Prosecutors
yesterday argued that Chiesi should get between 37 and 46 months
in prison.  “Kurland engaged in a ‘vicious cycle of abuse’ and
‘psychological exploitation’ to turn Dani into his ‘virtual
servant,’” her lawyers argued in a sentencing memorandum
yesterday, quoting a letter to the judge from Chiesi’s
boyfriend, “Billy.” According to Billy, whose full name isn’t
disclosed in the public filing, Kurland relocated Chiesi to San
Francisco after his wife discovered their 20-year affair.  Chiesi and Kurland both pleaded guilty in connection with a
government investigation of hedge-fund insider trading centered
on Galleon Group LLC and its cofounder Raj Rajaratnam. Chiesi is
scheduled to be sentenced June 30 in Manhattan federal court.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-1184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Regions Investor Suit Over Bad Loans May Proceed, Judge Rules  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  investors may proceed with a
lawsuit filed in October accusing Alabama’s biggest bank of
deceiving them about mounting losses on bad loans, a federal
judge ruled.  Plaintiffs including the Employees’ Retirement System of
the Virgin Islands provided sufficient evidence to support
claims the firm misled them about potential losses, U.S.
District Judge Inge Johnson in Birmingham wrote. The judge cited
testimony from a former employee that Regions’ audit committee
hired lawyers to examine whether employees sought to avoid
recognizing failing loans during the subprime-mortgage crisis.  “These allegations clearly show that defendants had access
to and were aware of a financial situation that was not as
strong as they were suggesting to the public,” Johnson said in
a June 7 ruling. “Defendants had access to accounting systems
and internal reports that showed contrary information to what
was in their public statements and financials.”  The Birmingham-based lender, which holds $3.5 billion in
government bailout funds, said in November that it ousted three
executives overseeing risk and souring assets amid slow progress
in curbing credit losses. The firm’s board is still conducting
the internal review, the Wall Street Journal said, citing
unidentified people familiar with the matter.  The probe, which follows a Federal Reserve inquiry, looks
at when Regions’ employees labeled loans “non-accrual,” or
unlikely to pay off, the newspaper said.  Tim Deighton, a spokesman for Regions, and  Barbara
Hagenbaugh , a spokeswoman for the Federal Reserve Board in
Washington, declined to comment.  The case is Local 703, I.B. of T. Grocery and Food
Employees Welfare Fund v. Regions Financial Corp., 10-cv-02847,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Alabama, Southern
Division (Birmingham).  For copies of recent civil complaints, click here. For the
latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Analyst Tells Jury He Heard Jiau Phone in Confidential Data  A former analyst at hedge fund Barai Capital Management LP
testified that he listened in on phone calls while his boss at
the time got nonpublic information on companies from Winifred
Jiau, an ex-consultant at  Primary Global Research LLC  who is on
trial in New York.  The ex-analyst, Jason Pflaum, told a Manhattan federal jury
yesterday that he monitored and recorded the calls to aid Samir
Barai, who is hearing impaired. Pflaum said he also wrote
contemporaneous electronic instant messages to help his boss
keep up with the conversation with Jiau, 43.  Jiau, who is charged with passing illegal tips on  Nvidia
Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) , is the first of the so-
called expert-networking consultants to go on trial on insider
trading charges.  For a fee, Jiau shared “earnings information about Marvell
and Nvidia,” Pflaum said under questioning by Assistant U.S.
Attorney David Leibowitz. “Very specific revenue numbers, gross
margins -- in some cases operating margins -- earnings-per-share
information.”  The Jiau trial is part of a crackdown on employees and
consultants at  Primary Global Research , a Mountain View,
California-based company that links investors with industry
experts who work for public companies.  Pflaum, who worked for Barai from March 2008 through
January 2011, testified that he gave the U.S. information on
“more than 10” people he said he knew had committed insider
trading. Barai pleaded guilty May 27 to conspiracy, wire fraud
and obstruction.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Industrial Enterprises Ex-Chief Entered Secret Guilty Plea  John D. Mazzuto, the former chief executive officer of
 Industrial Enterprises of America Inc. (IEAM) , secretly pleaded guilty
to his role in a $60 million stock fraud at the seller of
automotive chemicals.  Mazzuto admitted in New York state court to committing two
counts of grand larceny, a scheme to defraud and a violation of
general business law, according to the Jan. 14 plea agreement
made public last week. He agreed to cooperate and is testifying
against James W. Margulies, an Ohio attorney who served as IEAM
counsel, chief financial officer and, briefly, CEO. Margulies is
now on trial.  Mazzuto, 62, a Yale University graduate and former managing
director at Chemical Bank, created IEAM by taking a private
company he controlled and merging it with a public company.
According to prosecutors, IEAM illegally issued millions of
shares of stock to friends, family, associates and Yale.  On the witness stand last week, Mazzuto said he, Margulies
and others engaged in fraudulent accounting and securities
practices, inflating the company’s stock value and deceiving
investors.  “Since I was the public face of the company, I got
investors to buy the stock,” Mazzuto testified. “Jim’s role
was to then create all the paperwork to make these transactions
look legitimate even though they weren’t.”  Margulies, 47, who also was indicted for grand larceny, a
scheme to defraud, conspiracy and other crimes, denies the
charges, his lawyer, Martin Adelman, said in a June 10 interview
after Mazzuto ended his testimony for the day.  “The company is fully cooperating with the prosecution,”
Tom Curran, an attorney for IEAM, said yesterday in a phone
interview. “The company is actively engaged in an effort to
gather all of its records to determine what action needs to be
taken to regain property that may have been transferred.”  The case is People v. Mazzuto, 2503-2010, New York state
Supreme Court (Manhattan). The class action is Mallozzi v.
Industrial Enterprises of America Inc., 07-CV-10321, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
bankruptcy is In re Industrial Enterprises of America Inc.,
09-11508, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware. The Baker
lawsuit is Industrial Enterprises of America Inc. v. Baker &
McKenzie LLP, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  