-- 
Gold May Advance on Inflation Concern, Sovereign-Debt Crisis in Europe

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 
2011-06-14T12:28:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/gold-snaps-two-day-drop-on-inflation-concern-greek-sovereign-debt-crisis.html
Gold may gain for the first time in
three days in New York as concern about rising inflation and
 Europe ’s debt crisis spur demand for the metal as a protection
of wealth.  China ordered lenders to set aside more cash as reserves
after inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in almost three
years, while consumer price increases in  India  quickened.
 Standard & Poor’s  yesterday branded  Greece  with the world’s
lowest credit rating, saying the nation is “increasingly
likely” to face a debt restructuring.  “The inflation story is still in the back of people’s
minds,” said Bernard Sin, the head of currency and metal
trading at MKS Finance SA, a bullion refiner in Geneva. “Europe
is definitely a problem, that’s why you’re seeing decent demand.
Physical traders might be happy to get in at these levels.”  Gold for August delivery rose $3.40, or 0.2 percent, to
$1,519 an ounce by 8 a.m. on the Comex in New York. Immediate-
delivery gold was 0.2 percent higher at $1,518.40 in  London .  Bullion fell to $1,519 an ounce in the morning “fixing”
in London, used by some mining companies to sell output, from
$1,526.25 at yesterday’s afternoon fixing.  Gold is up 6.9 percent in 2011 after climbing the past 10
years, the longest run of gains in at least nine decades in
London. Europe’s debt crisis helped bullion futures reach a
record $1,577.40 on May 2. European Union finance ministers
meeting today are trying to resolve the debt crisis in Greece.  China Rates  An agreement is critical to Greece’s solvency as the
 International Monetary Fund  can’t pay its share of a 12 billion-
euro ($17.3 billion) bailout in July unless a plan is in place
to plug the nation’s 2012 financing gap of about 30 billion
euros.  China  has boosted  interest rates  four times since September
and increased banks’ reserve requirements to a record to curb
higher consumer costs. Inflation has exceeded the government’s 4
percent target each month this year. Low-income nations from
India to Algeria are struggling with food prices that climbed to
a record in February, according to a United Nations gauge.  “Gold is the main beneficiary of rising inflation,” Park
Jong Beom, a Seoul-based senior trader with Tongyang Futures
Co., said before the Chinese data was released. “Still, the
metal’s upward momentum isn’t strong enough to push through the
$1,550 level again, which suggests gold may face another round
of correction.”  Silver for July delivery was little changed at $34.715 an
ounce in  New York . Palladium for September delivery declined 0.5
percent to $796.50 an ounce. Platinum for July delivery was down
0.4 percent at $1,798.90 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  