-- 
Goldman Sachs Says ‘Baseless’ Lehman Document Demand Designed to Harass

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-06-14T15:32:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/goldman-sachs-says-baseless-lehman-document-demand-designed-to-harass.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  accused
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  of harassment by making a
“baseless” demand for documents as part of an investigation
the failed investment bank is conducting.  Lehman’s effort to force Goldman Sachs to hand over
documents related to a probe of events leading up to its
collapse in September 2008 is improper, Goldman Sachs said in a
court filing yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  Lehman’s move to obtain a court order “is designed purely
to harass Goldman Sachs and should be denied as baseless,
unnecessary and unwarranted,” Goldman Sachs said.  Lehman has said it is investigating third parties that may
have taken actions before its bankruptcy that “interfered with
and damaged” its business, according to court papers. In a
request to Goldman Sachs, Lehman sought information related to
“alleged false rumors” and the short-selling of Lehman
securities, Goldman Sachs said in its filing.  Goldman Sachs is “deliberately moving at glacial pace” in
handing over information, Lehman said. Lehman wants U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge James Peck to order Goldman Sachs to produce
documents it seeks within two weeks of approving the request.  ‘Slightest Bit’  Goldman Sachs, based in  New York , has already provided
documents, previously given to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the U.S. Attorney’s Office, that don’t support
allegations that Goldman Sachs was spreading rumors about
Lehman, it said. Lehman also hasn’t provided “the slightest bit
of evidence” that Goldman Sachs was involved in any improper
activity affecting Lehman, Goldman Sachs said in its filing.  Goldman Sachs made “diligent progress” in preparing to
respond to Lehman’s request for additional documents, and the
timeline Lehman has proposed is burdensome, the company said. It
has proposed producing documents by July 22.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 