-- 
Goldman Cools on Economy Ignoring ‘China Years’: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-06-14T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/goldman-cools-on-economy-ignoring-china-years-william-pesek.html
Just when we thought we’d seen
everything from  Thaksin Shinawatra , the former Thai prime
minister has managed to clone himself.  The genetic copy in question is Thaksin’s younger sister,
Yingluck Shinawatra, who is running for his old job. If you
think this sounds like the political version of a cheesy horror
film, imagine how  Thailand ’s 68 million people feel. They’ve
seen this one before and it doesn’t end well.  Officially, Thaksin, 61, was ousted in a September 2006
coup amid corruption allegations and has been on the run since.
Unofficially, he is leader-in-exile, doing all he can to govern
by proxy from far-off places like Dubai and Montenegro. His
sister’s campaign is largely seen as a way for Thaksin to
reassert himself in Thai politics. Investors should be wary.  Thaksin has long been Thailand’s answer to  Silvio Berlusconi . Like the Italian prime minister, Thaksin was a media
tycoon who leveraged his business success to become the dominant
political leader. Thaksin, like Berlusconi, also was accused of
using public office to advance his private business interests.  A born salesman, Thaksin brilliantly convinced Thailand’s
rural poor that he championed their interests. His populist
economic policies had more in common with Tammany Hall patronage
than anything development economists would prescribe to raise
 living standards . All the while, Thaksin bowdlerized Thailand’s
democracy and neutered its institutions, leaving the nation
worse off.  Five Premiers Later  Since his removal, Thailand has had five prime ministers
and veered from one violent protest to another. At times,
central Bangkok has resembled a war zone and the airports have
closed. Foreign direct investment has suffered, as has gross
domestic product. Thailand’s economy is growing at a pace of
just 3 percent, less than half the rate of some of its regional
rivals.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , in office since December
2008, is spending so much time trying to keep his job that he’s
neglecting to do it. He needs to accelerate Thai growth and
spread the benefits so that they’re not concentrated among the
elite. That means attacking the rampant corruption that
contributes so much to the widening gap between urban rich and
rural poor.  But cleaning things up has proven to be beyond the
abilities of the Oxford-educated Abhisit. Thailand ranks 78th
out of 178 countries in Transparency International’s corruption
perceptions index, tied with  Greece , Colombia and  Lesotho .  Powerful Forces  So is Yingluck Shinawatra, 43, who has never run for office
or held a government post, really a step in the right direction?
Would she resist her brother’s influence and attack the powerful
forces of cronyism holding the nation back?  The odds don’t favor it. Thaksin is the de facto leader of
Yingluck’s Pheu Thai opposition party. A Yingluck victory next
month would put Thaksin back in the driver’s seat, albeit
indirectly. And that could mean a return to so-called
Thaksinomics.  Such a result would be a setback for central bank Governor
Prasarn Trairatvorakul, who is worried about the return of
populist policies that might fan inflation. Election pledges
include cutting value-added taxes, increasing minimum wages and
providing zero-interest loans. Thai inflation is already
accelerating because of rising food and oil prices.  Military Risks  No matter the electoral outcome, political tensions are
mounting and the potential for military conflict is real. A Pheu
Thai-run government might encounter resistance from the generals
who ousted Thaksin to begin with. Of course, an election loss on
July 3 for Thaksin’s surrogates might trigger mass protests by
the so-called red-shirt demonstrators loyal to the former
premier. Neither scenario would be positive for Thailand’s
economy in the weeks, and possibly months, ahead. On June 7,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. suggested investors cut Thai holdings
on concern that the election will fuel turmoil. Instability now
costs the country 1 to 2 percentage points of annual GDP growth,
according to Credit Suisse estimates.  The long-term outlook is troubling as well. We’re now
living in the age of what economist  Stephen Green  of Standard
Chartered Bank Plc calls “ China  years.” We’ve all heard of dog
years, or the theory that for every year a human ages, a dog
ages by seven.  China has accomplished in a few years what took decades in
other countries. Thailand demonstrates the perils of failing to
adapt to that pace of change. It’s falling further behind,
becoming less competitive and slipping deeper into political
dysfunction. It would be better to see Thailand moving in the
direction of  South Korea , with an economy that can hold its own
against China. That won’t happen if Thaksinomics is reinstated.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more Bloomberg View columns.  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  