-- 
Google Unveils ‘Instant Pages’ to Cut Seconds Off Internet-Search Times

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-06-14T20:22:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/google-unveils-instant-pages-to-cut-time-of-web-search-process.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  unveiled a new search
feature called Instant Pages that will give users quicker
connections to Web sites from links on Internet query results.  Instant Pages can cut 2 to 5 seconds from the search
process, and will be included in the newest test version of the
Chrome Web browser. The tool is based on technology that
anticipates which link a user will click -- and preloads that
page. The feature won’t work if a user chooses another link.  “Every time we shave even 15 milliseconds from the search
process, users search more and more,” said Amit Singhal, Google
fellow, who spoke at a press conference today in San Francisco.
“It’s great for the users and it’s great for Google.”  Google, which gets most of its revenue from search-based
advertising, is enhancing Internet features as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
Bing service gains users. Microsoft’s share of U.S. searches
rose to 14 percent in May from 12 percent at the end of 2010,
while Google’s share slipped to 66 percent from 67 percent,
according to  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)   The company’s announcement of Instant Pages follows the
introduction of  Google Instant  last year. That feature gives
users results to queries as they’re typed into the search box.  Mountain View , California-based Google also introduced
tools today that let users search for online information on a
desktop or laptop computer using voice commands, a feature
already available on mobile devices. A microphone icon on the
search box will soon appear, enabling users to speak simple
queries or even get translation.  The company also unveiled a new digital-image search
feature for PCs. The image-search tool will look for information
using an image dropped into a search box.  Google rose $3.64 to $508.37 at 4 p.m. New York time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have fallen 14 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  