-- 
Google Invests $280 Million in SolarCity Project Finance Fund

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-06-14T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/google-invests-280-million-in-solarcity-project-finance-fund.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  agreed to put $280
million in a new project financing fund for SolarCity Inc., a
financier, installer and owner of rooftop photovoltaic systems,
in the Internet search engine’s biggest clean-energy investment.  The deal with  San Mateo , California-based SolarCity is also
Google’s first investment related to distributed solar energy,
Rick Needham, the search engine’s director of green business
operations, said by telephone yesterday.  The investment is a “quadruple-win” because it will
enable more homeowners to lower their energy bills while also
shifting to renewable energy, allow SolarCity to expand its
business and facilitate wider deployment of solar, Needham said.
 Mountain View , California-based Google will also make a return
on capital upfront, he said, since its investment is supported
by the Treasury Department’s  cash grants program .  As an alternative to tax credits, the program reimburses
investors for 30 percent of project expenditures for solar. The
program was created after the 2008 financial crisis to revive
spending on clean energy. Projects must begin construction by
the end of 2011 to be eligible.  With the looming expiration of the grants program, other
corporations with large balance sheets need to “get into this
space or else we’ll see  project financing  struggle,” Lyndon Rive, SolarCity’s chief executive officer, said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  “Most solar financing has occurred with traditional
banks,” Rive said. Those investors though are “constrained
with the amount of capital that can be deployed for distributed
power. Google is setting an example other corporate companies
will follow,” he said.  ‘Transformative Business Model’  SolarCity will use the funds as the equity component in
project financing. The company finances solar-energy systems
through an arrangement known as a power-purchase agreement or
solar lease, in which it owns the solar panels. Customers pay
nothing upfront and buy the generated electricity at a fixed
monthly rate that’s lower than a typical utility bill.  “That’s an attractive and transformative business model
SolarCity has developed,” Needham said. By focusing on
distributed projects, the approach also avoids transmission
issues associated with larger developments in remote areas, he
said.  The new fund is SolarCity’s largest to date and brings the
company’s total project financing to more than $1.25 billion
through fifteen funds with seven different partners, it said
today in a statement. SolarCity offers its services in 10 U.S.
states and the  District of Columbia  and has completed or is
developing 15,000 projects, it said.  Google’s Other Deals  With the SolarCity deal, Google has invested more than $680
million in the clean-energy industry to date, Needham said.  Its first investment in utility-scale renewable energy was
in May 2010, with  $38.8 million  provided for two NextEra Energy
Resources LLC wind farms in  North Dakota .  In April this year, Google said it was investing $100
million in Caithness Energy LLC’s 845-megawatt Shepherds Flat
wind farm in eastern  Oregon . Last month, the company and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  each agreed to provide $55 million to  buy  and
lease back to Terra-Gen Power LLC the fourth 102-megawatt phase
of a wind farm in  Southern California  that will be 1,550
megawatts in capacity on completion.  Also in April, BrightSource Energy Inc. said the search
engine company joined  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  as an equity investor in
its Ivanpah solar-thermal plant in Southern California and
agreed to provide $168 million to fund construction.  Underwater Transmission Network  In October 2010, Google said it was investing in a $5
billion underwater transmission network for wind farms off the
Mid-Atlantic coast and would own a 37.5 percent equity interest.
Google also purchases wind power from NextEra wind farms in
Oklahoma and  Iowa .  Its philanthropic arm, Google.org, also has provided
venture backing for other clean-energy companies since 2006,
including Altarock Energy Inc., Potter Drilling, eSolar Inc.,
ActaCell, Aptera Motors, Makani Power and BrightSource,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  In February, Google Ventures led a financing round for
energy-efficient power module maker Transphorm Inc., and it has
also invested in Silver Spring Networks Inc. and
CoolPlanetBiofuels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 