-- 
Green Curtain Sales Surge as Tokyo Faces Power Cuts This Summer

-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 
2011-06-15T06:12:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/green-curtain-sales-surge-as-tokyo-residents-expect-steam-sauna-offices.html
“Green curtain” gardening kits
sales are surging, shoppers are buying clothes designed to
help them stay cool and a pizzeria owner is losing weight as
Tokyo residents brace for a summer with less air conditioning.  Sales of gear to grow goya vines that provide shade for
buildings have jumped ninefold this year at  Rakuten Inc. (4755) ,
Japan’s biggest online retailer.  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) , the country’s
second-biggest private employer, is draping factories with
the bitter gourd plants and handing out seeds to employees
for use at home, a step electronic components maker  Kyocera
Corp. (6971)  is also taking.  “Our office will be like a steam sauna this summer,”
said Yasuo Kawada, a 59-year-old employee at a Tokyo-based
office equipment maker. “We can’t open windows. Coping will
be tough.”  Fast Retailing Co.’s Uniqlo casual clothing sales are
surging after Tokyo’s power monopoly asked companies to set
thermostats to 28 degrees Celsius (82 degrees Fahrenheit) and
reduce power use 15 percent. The increase in purchases of
goods to stay cool comes as eastern Japan has been left short
of power capacity by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that
knocked out a nuclear plant.  Some investors may have underestimated the extent to
which Japanese consumers are willing to alter their
lifestyles, according to Graham Elliott, chief executive
officer of MF Global FXA Securities Ltd.  “The main impact will be with companies like Fast
Retailing, with positive impact on  convenience stores  and
some electrical sales,” he said.  Cool Clothes  Fast Retailing said the government’s “Super Cool Biz”
campaign to cut office air conditioning by easing dress codes
is already pushing up sales of clothes that wick away sweat.
 Toray Industries Inc. (3402)  helped develop the cooling fabrics.  “Wearing our clothes actually keeps you cooler than
when you’re naked,” Fast Retailing Chief Operating Officer
Naoki Otoma said. The company’s stock has lost 4.1 percent
since the earthquake, compared with an 11 percent slide for
the broader Topix index.  The clothing retailer,  Asia ’s biggest, expects sales of
chino pants to double and of polo shirts to jump 50 percent
this year, Otoma said. Fast Retailing said 97 percent of
employers in the Greater  Tokyo  area intend to conserve energy
this summer, based on its survey of 400 workers.  Power Shortage  Elliott attributes the change in purchasing habits
partly to “the way the nation responds almost unilaterally
in a crisis.” The relaxed office dress codes aimed at
cutting air-conditioning, begun in 2005 and accelerated this
year as “Super Cool Biz” helped “start the trend toward
more environmentally sensitive thinking,” he said.  The crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant northeast of Tokyo
and mandatory maintenance mean only 14 of the nation’s 54
nuclear reactors may be operating in August, according to
Bloomberg calculations. Temperatures may rise to as high as
40 degrees Celsius (104 Fahrenheit) that month.  The changes in habits are spreading beyond apparel
choices and gardening.  “I will lose weight to help stay cooler,” and cut back
on air-conditioning use, said Takehiro Katayose, 35, who runs
a Tokyo pizzeria and plans to cut his body fat to 15 percent
from about 17 percent. “I will also cut my hair shorter. I’m
doing what I can do, even though it may have little impact.”  Lace Curtains  Sales of home appliances in April rose 19.7 percent from
the previous year to 175.3 billion yen, led by a 79.6 percent
rise in sales of energy-saving air conditioners,  Japan’s
Electrical Manufacturer’s Association  said May 25. Sales of
fans rose 145 percent to 454,000 units, and refrigerators
rose 19 percent to 370,000 units.  Aeon Co., the country’s second-biggest retailer, aims to
raise sales of electric fans by 50 percent. It plans to
increase by 20 percent the sales of lace curtains that it
said block 80 percent of ultra-violet rays.  The operator of the Jusco supermarket chain will also
offer credit worth 200 yen to customers who bring in power
bills showing they’ve reduced use of electricity by at least
15 percent in July, Aeon said May 23.  Shiseido Co.,  Japan ’s biggest cosmetics maker, has
boosted shipments of the mint-scented Sea Breeze lotion by 30
percent from the end of February to mid May, spokeswoman
Megumi Kinukawa said.  ‘Little Efforts’  McDonald’s Holdings Co. (Japan) recommends its employees
go on leave from Aug. 1 to Aug. 5 to allow it to shut most of
its headquarters, spokesman Kazuyuki Hagiwara said.  Seven & I, Japan’s biggest retailer, plans to spend 10
billion yen on measures to cut electricity use by 25 percent
at its 6,000 7-Eleven convenience stores in Tokyo and
surrounding areas. The steps include installing light-
emitting diode lights at 5,000 stores and solar panels at
1,000 outlets.  “It’s hard to imagine we can resolve this power-supply
problem anytime soon,” said  Toshihiro Nagahama , chief
economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in Tokyo.
“Still, little efforts multiplied a millionfold can help
mitigate the impact.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  