-- 
Greek Rescue Package May Be Delayed by EU Disagreements on Investors’ Role

-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-06-15T07:11:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/greek-rescue-package-may-be-delayed-by-eu-disagreements-on-investors-role.html
Euro-area finance chiefs struggling
to break a deadlock on how to enroll investors in a second Greek
rescue without triggering a default said they may need more time
to reach a deal.  An emergency session of finance ministers in Brussels late
yesterday failed to reconcile a German-led push for bondholders
to shoulder part of the cost of a new Greek aid package with
 European Central Bank  warnings backed by France that the move
might constitute the euro area’s first sovereign default.  With consensus elusive before the target date of a leaders’
summit late next week, finance ministers agreed to convene again
on June 19, a day earlier than planned. Talks may drag on into
July, Luxembourg’s Finance Minister Luc Frieden said.  “There’s no plan B, we have to come up with a solution,”
said  Gilles Moec , co-chief European economist at Deutsche Bank
AG. “They’ll find a way to make it safe, which is what the ECB
and French want, and make it irrevocable and grant more time,
which is what Germany wants.”  The focus now shifts to German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to resolve their differences at
a June 17 meeting in Berlin. Pressure on euro-area governments
to craft a rescue plan intensified this week after  Standard &
Poor’s  slapped Greece with the world’s lowest credit rating.  “We have to proceed very cautiously,” Frieden told
reporters after yesterday’s emergency session, adding that
“very clearly we have to go in the direction” of a delay until
next month. “Several options -- from the IMF, as well as from
the European Central Bank and from the European Commission --
still have to be studied.”  Greek Yields Record  Yields on 10-year Greek bonds touched 17.46 percent
yesterday, a record in the 17-nation euro area’s history. The
slump pushed the extra yield that investors demand to hold Greek
10-year bonds instead of similar maturity German bunds to a
record.  The benchmark 10-year yield rose two basis points to 17.40
percent today at 7:40 a.m. in  London . The difference in yield
that investors demand to hold Greece’s 10-year bonds instead of
German bunds was at 1,438 basis points.  Thirteen months after Greece was granted a 110 billion-euro
($159 billion) bailout that failed to halt the spread of the
debt crisis to Ireland and Portugal, politicians are at odds
over fulfilling a pledge to make creditors pick up some of the
cost of a second rescue.  ‘All Options’  ECB policy makers have warned against German proposals that
maturities on Greek debt be extended for seven years, an outcome
rating companies have said would be considered a default. ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet , who attended yesterday’s meeting,
said on June 9 that governments were flirting with what could be
a “enormous mistake.”  Finance ministers including Elena Salgado of Spain and
Didier Reynders of Belgium stressed that any decision must
satisfy the ECB’s concerns. Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker ,
who leads the group of euro-area finance ministers, said before
the meeting that “all options” would be considered.  Germany  and France, Europe’s two biggest economies, are on
opposite sides of the dispute, with France indicating backing
for the ECB’s view. While French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  has ruled out any action that constitutes a “credit
event,” her German counterpart, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , said June 10 that Europe’s biggest economy “has to
insist on the participation of the private sector” in Greece.  `No Result'  Schaeuble said yesterday’s meeting produced “no result.”  Greece’s ports, banks, hospitals and state-run companies
will grind to a halt today as the two biggest labor unions call
the third general strike of the year to oppose Prime Minister
George Papandreou’s budget cuts and asset sales. About 1,000
protesters were demonstrating in front of the Parliament today.  Preliminary data released by the  Finance Ministry  in Athens
yesterday showed the central-government  budget deficit  widened
in the first five months of the year to 10.3 billion euros.  “The obvious implication is they will reach agreement as
the alternative is a disaster,” said David Mackie, London-based
chief European economist at JP Morgan Chase & Co. A compromise
will be made to “get us through a few weeks or months, but if
 Greece  keeps under-delivering then at some stage we’ll be back
in the same position.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alan Crawford  in Brussels via 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Brussels at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  