-- 
European Finance Chiefs Split on Bondholder Role in Second Greek Bailout

-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-06-14T17:45:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/greek-bailout-enters-homestretch-as-european-leaders-race-to-avert-default.html
European finance chiefs are divided
on how to involve private investors in a second bailout for
Greece and stave off the euro area’s first sovereign default
without running afoul of the  European Central Bank .  “You can’t leave the profits with the banks and make the
taxpayers shoulder the losses,” Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter told reporters in Brussels today before an emergency
meeting on Greece. “Ministers have different positions,” she
said. “We’ll put them on the table and look at where the
compromise lies.”  Pressure on the finance ministers to craft a rescue plan
intensified after  Standard & Poor’s  slapped Greece with the
world’s lowest credit rating. The euro group seeks to reach a
consensus for easing Europe’s biggest debt burden before a
summit of European Union leaders on June 23-24.  “The obvious implication is they will reach agreement as
the alternative is a disaster,” said David Mackie, London-based
chief European economist at JP Morgan Chase & Co. A compromise
will be made to “get us through a few weeks or months, but if
 Greece  keeps under-delivering then at some stage we’ll be back
in the same position.”  Chinese Reaction  Yields on 10-year Greek bonds touched 17.46 percent today,
a record in the 17-nation euro-area’s history. The slump pushed
the extra yield, or spread, that investors demand to hold the
country’s 10-year bonds instead of similar maturity German bunds
to a record. The euro rose 0.6 percent on the day.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis could worsen and spread,
posing a major risk to the global economic recovery if euro-area
countries don’t set up a reliable long-term crisis management
mechanism, the People’s Bank of China said in its annual
financial stability report posted on its website today.  ECB policy makers have warned against German proposals that
maturities on Greek debt be extended for seven years, an outcome
rating companies have said would be considered a default. ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  attended today’s meeting.  Mario Draghi , the incoming ECB president, signaled he may
favor a voluntary rollover of Greek debt by investors in the
style of the 2009 Vienna initiative.  ‘Voluntary’ Measures  “The Vienna initiative looks to me to be entirely
voluntary,” Draghi told lawmakers in Brussels today at his
confirmation hearing for the top ECB post. “The ECB is not in
favor of restructuring and haircuts” and it “excludes all
concepts that are not purely voluntary,” Draghi said.  Thirteen months after Greece was granted a 110 billion-euro
($159 billion) bailout that failed to halt the spread of the
debt crisis to Ireland and Portugal, politicians are at odds
over fulfilling a pledge to make creditors pick up some of the
cost of a second rescue. Trichet said June 9 that governments
were flirting with what could be a “enormous mistake.”  Germany and France,  Europe ’s two biggest economies, are on
opposite sides of the dispute, with France indicating backing
for the ECB’s view. While French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  has ruled out any action that constitutes a “ credit
event ,” her German counterpart, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , said June 10 that Europe’s biggest economy “has to
insist on the participation of the private sector” in Greece.  ‘Opening Gambit’  “It may be fair to assume that the maturity extension plan
will at least be the Germans’ opening gambit,”  Kornelius Purps ,
a fixed-income strategist at Unicredit SpA in Munich, said by
telephone. That “would never work with bondholders as a
voluntary move nor with the ECB.”  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said before the meeting that “all
options” will be considered regarding Greece.  Finance ministers including Elena Salgado of Spain and
 Didier Reynders  of Belgium stressed that any decision must
satisfy the ECB’s concerns.  “They’ll find a way to make it safe, which is what the ECB
and French want, and make it irrevocable and grant more time,
which is what  Germany  wants,” said  Gilles Moec , co-chief
European economist at Deutsche Bank AG. “There’s no plan B. We
have to come up with a solution.”  Private-sector investors should contribute at least 30
percent of possible additional refinancing aid for Greece, Dutch
Finance Minister Jan Kees  de Jager  said.  ‘Special Rights’  “There are ways to make it attractive for private parties
to participate voluntarily in extending debt,” De Jager said in
Brussels. “For instance new bonds, which replace old ones, can
be given new special rights the old bonds lack.”  S&P said yesterday that Greece is “increasingly likely”
to face a debt restructuring, reflecting political pressure on
investors not to dump Greek holdings. The cost to insure Greek
debt, the most expensive in the world, indicates a chance of
about three in four that Greece will default in the next five
years.  The Greek government sold 1.6 billion euros of 26-week
treasury bills today at a yield of 4.96 percent as preliminary
data from the  Finance Ministry  in  Athens  showed the central-
government budget deficit widened in the first five months of
the year to 10.3 billion euros.  It’s “100 percent certain” that Greece will default and
“the only question is what euphemism will be dreamt up to cloak
the fact,” said  Niall Ferguson , a history professor at  Harvard
University  and a Bloomberg Television contributing editor.  “The race is on to find a way of saying Greece hasn’t
really defaulted even though it’s not making good on its
interest payments,” he said on Bloomberg Television’s
“InsideTrack” today. “Good luck with that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Crawford in Brussels via 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  