-- 
Greek Unions Stage Strike Against Austerity

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 
2011-06-14T21:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/greek-unions-stage-24-hour-strike-to-oppose-papandreou-s-cuts-asset-sales.html
Greece ’s ports, banks, hospitals and
state-run companies grind to a halt today as the two biggest
labor unions strike to oppose Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s
additional budget cuts and asset sales.  ADEDY , the largest public-sector union, and the  General
Confederation of Labor , or GSEE, the biggest private-sector
union, called the third general strike of the year to protest
the government’s five-year fiscal plan and program of
state asset sales, according to e-mailed statements.  Papandreou aims to get the 78 billion-euro ($113 billion)
package passed in parliament by the end of the month. He faces
growing dissent within his Socialist Pasok party and among
Greeks. One Pasok lawmaker said yesterday he won’t vote for the
bill, the To Vima newspaper reported. Papandreou holds a
six-seat majority in the 300-member assembly.  “This government has the responsibility to save the
country from default,” spokesman  George Petalotis  told
reporters in Athens yesterday in response to questions on the
strikes.  A group called The People’s Assembly of Syntagma, a
reference to Athens’s main square, has called on people to
encircle parliament as lawmakers begin a debate on the bill,
submitted on June 9. Demonstrators have gathered in the square
in front of parliament for 21 days, setting up tents and calling
on others to join them. Police said the largest rally was on
June 5, when 50,000 people gathered in front of the chamber.  Budget Cuts  Papandreou’s budget measures, which include higher taxes
and lower public-sector wages, are aimed at getting more aid
after a 110 billion-euro European Union-led bailout agreed last
year failed to secure  market access  for Greek bonds in 2012.  Public-sector workers, hospital employees, bank workers,
police officers and journalists will participate in the 24-hour
strike. Ferry schedules will be disrupted and stoppages will
take place on the public-transport system during the day.  Unions are opposed to Pasok’s plans to sell stakes in
state-owned companies such as  Public Power Corp SA. (PPC)  The GENOP
union, which represents workers there, plans to hold 48-hour
rolling strikes from June 20 until the government backs down,
according to an e-mail.  “We demand withdrawal of the harsh and unjust measures
being imposed by the government as it has been commanded to do
by our lenders,” Athens-based GSEE said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in  Athens  at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  