-- 
Euro-Area Accord on New Greek Aid May Be Delayed to July

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 
2011-06-14T21:09:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/greek-aid-may-be-delayed-to-july-frieden.html
Talks on a second Greek bailout may
drag into July, casting doubt on a payment due early next month,
as euro-area finance chiefs struggle to break a deadlock over
how to enroll private investors in the rescue.  The finance ministers failed to reconcile a German-led push
for bondholders to shoulder part of the cost of a new Greek aid
package with  European Central Bank  warnings that such a move
might constitute a default. With consensus elusive before the
target date of a June 23-24 leaders’ summit, finance ministers
will convene again on June 19 in Luxembourg, a day earlier than
planned.  “We have to proceed very cautiously,” Luxembourg Finance
Minister Luc Frieden told reporters after an emergency meeting
in Brussels today, adding that “very clearly we have to go into
that direction” of a delay to next month on a new aid package
from the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund .
“Several options -- from the IMF, as well as from the European
Central Bank and from the European Commission -- still have to
be studied.”  Pressure on euro-area governments to craft a rescue plan
before their end-of-June goal intensified yesterday after
 Standard & Poor’s  slapped Greece with the world’s lowest credit
rating. The focus on averting the euro area’s first sovereign
default now shifts to German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French
President Nicolas Sarkozy to resolve their differences at a June
17 meeting in Berlin.  ‘No Plan B’  “They’ll find a way to make it safe, which is what the ECB
and French want, and make it irrevocable and grant more time,
which is what  Germany  wants,” said  Gilles Moec , co-chief
European economist at Deutsche Bank AG. “There’s no plan B. We
have to come up with a solution.”  Yields on 10-year Greek bonds touched 17.46 percent today,
a record in the 17-nation euro area’s history. The slump pushed
the extra yield that investors demand to hold the country’s 10-
year bonds instead of similar maturity German bunds to a record.  Thirteen months after Greece was granted a 110 billion-euro
($159 billion) bailout that failed to halt the spread of the
debt crisis to Ireland and  Portugal , politicians are at odds
over fulfilling a pledge to make creditors pick up some of the
cost of a second rescue.  Seven Years  ECB policy makers have warned against German proposals that
maturities on Greek debt be extended for seven years, an outcome
rating companies have said would be considered a default. ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet , who attended today’s meeting,
said on June 9 that governments were flirting with what could be
a “enormous mistake.”  Finance ministers including Elena Salgado of  Spain  and
Didier Reynders of  Belgium  stressed that any decision must
satisfy the ECB’s concerns. Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker,
who leads the group of euro-area finance ministers, said before
the meeting that “all options” will be considered regarding
 Greece .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Crawford in Brussels via 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  