-- 
Groupon’s Leonsis Seen by Governance Experts as Having Potential Conflict

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-06-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/groupon-s-leonsis-seen-by-governance-experts-as-having-potential-conflict.html
Groupon Inc.  Vice Chairman  Ted Leonsis ’ venture firm is an investor in rival LivingSocial and
has ties to its board, a relationship that could pose a
conflict, according to corporate-governance experts.  Leonsis has been a director at daily-deal site Groupon
since June 2009 and vice chairman since April 2011. He’s also a
partner at Revolution Growth,  Steve Case ’s investing fund, which
owns stock in LivingSocial. Leonsis has no personal financial
stake in that company, according to Revolution.  While venture firms often have competing startups in their
portfolios, Leonsis’ situation involves two dominant companies
in a market that may generate $3.9 billion in the U.S. alone by
2015. His relationships also will face more scrutiny now that
Groupon has filed to go public.  Corporate-governance  experts say
Groupon should have disclosed Leonsis’ ties to Revolution in its
IPO prospectus -- something it failed to do.  “It puts him in a cross-loyalty position,” said  Charles Elson , director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate
Governance at the University of  Delaware . “He has to be loyal
to his employer, and he has to be loyal to the board on which he
serves.”  Groupon, founded in 2008 by  Andrew Mason , announced plans
earlier this month to raise $750 million in an IPO. The Chicago-
based company pioneered the deal-of-the-day market, which offers
discounts of as much as 90 percent at restaurants, sporting
events and hotels. Groupon’s first-quarter revenue jumped more
than 14-fold to $644.7 million.  Overwhelming Share  U.S. daily-deal sales will grow more than fourfold by 2015,
up from $873 million in 2010, according to research firm
BIA/Kelsey in Chantilly, Virginia. LivingSocial Chief Executive
Officer Tim O’Shaughnessy said in December that Groupon and his
company control more than 90 percent of the market.  Julie Mossler, a Groupon spokeswoman, declined to comment,
as did Maire Griffin, a spokeswoman for  Washington , D.C.-based
LivingSocial. Leonsis also declined to comment, said Allyson
Burns, a spokeswoman for Revolution.  Leonsis has gained renown as an Internet entrepreneur,
sports-team owner and film producer. He runs  Monumental Sports &
Entertainment LLC , which owns the  National Basketball
Association ’s  Washington Wizards  and the  National Hockey
League ’s  Washington Capitals . He also produced the films
“Nanking,” “Kicking It” and “A Fighting Chance.”  ‘Great Antiseptic’  As a Groupon board member, Leonsis owns 924,385 Class A
shares, according to the IPO filing. He’s identified as chairman
and CEO of Monumental Sports, former vice chairman of America
Online, and director at  American Express Co. (AXP) , Rosetta Stone Ltd.
and Nutrisystem Inc. He’s also on the board of several closely
held Internet and technology companies, according to the filing.
Revolution isn’t mentioned.  “The key thing is revealing potential conflicts and then
people can wrestle with them and decide if they’re real,” said
Alfred Osborne, senior associate dean at the Anderson School of
Management at the University of  California ,  Los Angeles .
“Disclosure is the great antiseptic.”  Leonsis and Case were top executives at AOL during the
1990s. Case, 52, formed Washington-based Revolution LLC in 2005
to invest in fast-growing companies and dedicated $200 million
to a unit called Revolution Growth, where he’s made six
investments, including a 2008 bet on LivingSocial. Tige Savage,
a managing director at Revolution Ventures, which is also part
of Revolution LLC, is on LivingSocial’s board.  Investment History  Leonsis and Case made several investments together, before
Leonsis  joined  Revolution Growth in March of this year. The
LivingSocial investment happened before he arrived. Leonsis
doesn’t serve as an adviser to the company and has no financial
interest, Revolution’s Burns said.  “The Revolution Growth team is highly sensitive to the
competitive nature of both businesses and take great care to
ensure that confidential and competitive information is not
compromised,” Burns said in an e-mail.  Apple Inc. and Google Inc. coped with board conflicts in
2009, after the companies emerged as competitors in the
smartphone operating system market. Google’s chairman and former
CEO,  Eric Schmidt , resigned from Apple’s board in August of that
year. Genentech Inc. Chairman Art Levinson, who also was on both
boards, resigned from Google’s in October 2009.  Leonsis should be able to avoid that problem through proper
disclosure and ensuring that he and Case keep their respective
financial and strategic matters confidential, said Charley Moore, founder of  Rocket Lawyer Inc. , a San Francisco-based
startup that provides Web-based legal services.  Such conflicts are hard to avoid in technology, he said.  “If Groupon didn’t have the flexibility to have a board
member in a competitive position now or in the future, it would
restrict their ability to attract talent and expertise within
their market,” Moore said. “We’d have a very difficult time
populating boards with the smartest, most capable people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  