-- 
Tiger Woods’s U.S. Open Substitute Whitehead Delays Wedding Plans to Play

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-06-14T18:44:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/tiger-woods-s-u-s-open-substitute-whitehead-delays-wedding-plans-to-play.html
Michael Whitehead  didn’t wait long
to accept an invitation to fill in for Tiger Woods at this
week’s  U.S. Open .  “I probably said yes before she asked,” Whitehead said of
the phone call he received last week from Betsy Swain, a U.S.
Golf Association official.  Whitehead, a recent graduate of  Rice University , got the
call to fill in for Woods this week at Congressional Country
Club in Bethesda, Maryland, after the three-time U.S. Open
winner withdrew due to knee and ankle problems.  “Everybody keeps calling me Tiger’s replacement,”
Whitehead said in a press conference today at the course. “I’m
not Tiger’s replacement, I’m just the guy that got in when Tiger
withdrew.”  While the 23-year-old Texan, this year’s Conference USA
Player of the Year, said he grew up idolizing Woods and still
considers him his favorite golfer, he laughed at the comparison
between the two.  “Yeah, Woods and Whitehead in the same article,” he said,
drawing laughter. “I’m glad he listened to his doctor this
time.”  Whitehead was the tournament’s first alternate after losing
a three-man playoff to U.S. PGA Tour players Harrison Frazar and
Greg Chalmers on June 6. He will be making his first appearance
in the Open, the second of golf’s four annual major tournaments.
Woods will be absent for the first time since 1994.  The last time Woods needed a stand-in was at the 2009
Chevron World Challenge, which he skipped two months after a car
accident outside of his Florida home led to the unraveling of
his personal life and a fall from golf’s top spot. He is No. 15
in the  Official World Golf Ranking .  New Pro  After graduating with a sports management degree last
month, Whitehead turned professional in golf and plans to play
on the lower-tier  Hooters Tour  this summer.  In two days, Whitehead will hit his first ball as a pro on
the par-3 10th hole at Congressional, a 218-yard shot over
water.  “Hopefully, I just make solid contact,” he said.  The biggest event on Whitehead’s calendar after this week
will be his July 23 wedding to  Jordan Holloway , a former soccer
player at Rice.  Holloway stood in the back of the press room as Whitehead
spoke, smiling at the newfound attention her fiance was
receiving.  “If he had just qualified outright, nobody would probably
know his name,” Holloway said in an interview. “This just adds
something extra to the whole experience. He’s pumped.”  Holloway said she gladly put off her wedding planning for
the week to attend the tournament.  “It’s a good excuse,” she said before walking out of the
room holding hands with her husband-to-be.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Bethesda,  Maryland , at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  