-- 
High-Income Returns Reporting No Taxes Almost Doubled in 2008, IRS Says

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-06-15T14:54:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/high-income-no-tax-returns-almost-doubled-in-2008-irs-says.html
The number of people who reported
incomes of at least $200,000 and paid no U.S. income taxes
jumped 79.5 percent in 2008 from 2007, according to an Internal
Revenue Service study.  In all, 18,783 people filed U.S. tax returns with adjusted
gross incomes of at least $200,000 and used legal deductions,
exemptions and credits to avoid owing any U.S. income taxes.
That represents 0.43 percent of high-income taxpayers, the
biggest percentage of non-payers in an IRS study released
yesterday that includes data going back to 1977.  Even with the dollar threshold being held constant for
inflation, the 2008 totals and percentages were the highest on
record. The percentage of non-payers in 2008 almost doubled from
the 0.23 percent of filers who reported no income tax liability
in 2007, before a recession-fueled decline in  tax revenue .  “That is further evidence of how broken this system is,”
said Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat who has called for an
overhaul of the U.S. tax code. “What else can you say but
‘Congress, get going and fix this’?”  The data are estimates based on sampling conducted by the
IRS and are subject to sampling error. The numbers vary
depending on the measure of income and the measure of tax the
IRS uses.  No Tax Owed  Under an “expanded income” concept that adds items such
as tax-exempt municipal bond interest not included in adjusted
gross income, 27,399 people had annual incomes of $200,000 or
more in 2008 without paying any U.S. taxes.  U.S. citizens who earn income outside the country can
receive U.S. tax credits for foreign taxes paid, so they can
eliminate their U.S. tax liability and still pay significant
taxes elsewhere.  Others paid no income taxes anywhere in the world. Using
the AGI definition and an analysis that examines taxes paid
worldwide, 10,824 returns in the high-income group owed no tax
to any country. Both of those figures, on an absolute and a
percentage basis, hit records in the years covered by the study.  “It’s kind of a surprise to me. I don’t know what the
reason for that would be,” said Alan Viard, an economist at the
 American Enterprise Institute , a Washington policy research
group that supports low taxes and market-driven policies.  Losses and Deductions  The reasons why high earners can legally pay no taxes
include partnership losses and deductions for charitable
contributions, medical expenses, investment interest expenses
and casualty and theft losses, the report said. Typically,
people in this group avoid taxes because of a combination of
deductions and other provisions and income sources that differ
from those of the typical taxpayer.  “Nontaxable returns under the expanded income concept were
much more likely to have tax-exempt interest than were taxable
returns, and, when they did have it, the average amount was much
higher,” said the study by IRS economist Justin Bryan.
“Similarly, nontaxable returns were much less likely to have
any income from salaries and wages.”  These taxpayers are able to avoid paying the alternative
minimum tax, which was  created in 1969  following reports that
155 high-income taxpayers had paid no taxes. The AMT was
rewritten in 1986 and operates as a parallel tax system with a
structure that tends to affect people with high state and local
taxes or with large families. Many  tax deductions , including
those for charitable contributions, can be applied to the
regular income tax and to the AMT.  Almost half of U.S. households don’t pay any federal income
taxes. Most of the non-payers are at the lower end of the income
scale, where tax credits intended to encourage work and cover
the costs of raising children help to eliminate tax liability.  Adjusted Gross Income  About 3.1 percent of taxpayers reported adjusted gross
income of at least $200,000 in 2008. They reported earning 29.8
percent of the AGI of all taxpayers and paying 52 percent of all
federal individual income taxes, according to IRS figures.  Eric Toder , co-director of the Washington-based  Tax Policy
Center , a joint project of the  Urban Institute  and the  Brookings
Institution  that provides research and analysis on tax policies,
said the number of filers earning more than $200,000 dropped
from 2007, suggesting that there were dips in income even for
people who managed to exceed that income level. That trend and
the effect of the recession could have pushed people who would
otherwise have had some tax liabilities into the no-tax
category.  IRS figures show that the number of filers earning more
than $200,000 dipped from 4.53 million in 2007 to 4.37 million
in 2008.  “My guess is that the average income in that group went
down quite a bit,” Toder said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  