-- 
Indian Equities Offer ‘Value’ at Current Levels, Religare Says

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-06-14T04:55:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/indian-equities-offer-value-at-current-levels-religare-says.html
Manoj Singla, managing director and
co-head of research at Religare Capital Markets Ltd. in Mumbai,
comments on the outlook for Indian stocks.  The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange of
 India  Ltd. climbed 0.5 percent to 5,509.85 at 10:06 a.m. Mumbai
time. The gauge slid 3.3 percent in May, the most since January.  On equities outlook:  “We are bullish on Indian equities and see value in
investing at current levels with a nine to 12-month perspective.
We recommend investors buy shares of DLF Ltd. as we expect the
stock to rebound following its recent decline. We also have a
buy on Infosys Technologies Ltd. as valuations look attractive
from a medium-term perspective. We are also advising clients to
accumulate select mid-cap stocks.”  Stocks on the benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive
Index trade at an average 14.8 times estimated profit, compared
with 21.5 times last March, after this year’s 11 percent drop in
the measure.  On near-term challenges:  “ Interest rates  and inflation remain key challenges for
stocks. We expect markets to trade sideways in the short term.
If  oil prices  come off, then inflation will moderate.”  On interest-rate increases:  “We expect the  Reserve Bank  to increase rates by 75 basis
points by September, after which rates will start to drop.”  India’s central bank meets June 16 to set interest rates
after rising prices of food and fuel prompted it to increase
borrowing costs nine times since March 2010.  On the monsoon:  “A good monsoon is incrementally positive for stocks. It
will help bring down food inflation. Also high prices at which
government buys farm produce will boost rural consumption.”  Food inflation last week climbed to the highest level in
eight weeks, adding pressure on the central bank to increase
rates. Data for the week ended June 4 is due on June 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  