-- 
India Wholesale Prices Rise Faster-Than-Estimated 9.06% From Year Earlier

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-06-14T12:30:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/india-inflation-accelerates-to-9-06-.html
India’s inflation exceeded analysts
estimates, adding pressure on the central bank to extend the
fastest round of interest-rate increases among  Asia ’s major
economies. Bond yields and the rupee gained.  The wholesale-price index rose 9.06 percent from a year
earlier after an 8.66 percent jump in April, the commerce
ministry said in a statement in New Delhi today. The median
estimate of 22 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for an
8.74 percent increase.  The Indian economy may be “overheating” and further rate
rises are warranted,  Nouriel Roubini , co-founder and chairman of
Roubini Global Economics LLC said yesterday, as well as calling
for similar action in China. The  Reserve Bank  of India may boost
borrowing costs June 16 for the 10th time since mid-March 2010,
15 of 17 economists in a Bloomberg News survey said.  “Inflation is a big worry and policy makers’ objective
would be to fight the price gains rather than worry about
growth,” Samiran Chakraborty, Mumbai-based chief economist at
Standard Chartered Plc, said before the report. He expects
 India ’s central bank to boost its benchmark repurchase rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 7.5 percent.  Yields Gain  The yield on the 7.8 percent notes due April 2021 rose nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 8.33 percent as of
the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, and the rupee appreciated 0.3
percent to 44.745 per dollar, the biggest gain in two weeks. The
Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index advanced 0.2 percent.  Reserve Bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said last month he
was willing to risk a slowdown in growth to curb price
pressures, which undermine spending power in a nation where the
 World Bank  estimates three-quarters of the people live on less
than $2 a day.  India’s factory production growth eased in April, with
output rising 6.3 percent from a year earlier after an 8.8
percent gain in March, the statistics office said last week.  The government’s focus should be to bring down the
inflation rate to a range of 4 percent to 5 percent,
Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of the Prime Minister’s
Economic Advisory Council, said June 2 as he urged policy makers
to use all monetary and fiscal tools.  China Inflation  In China, the central bank today ordered lenders to set
aside more cash as reserves after inflation accelerated to 5.5
percent in May, the fastest pace in almost three years, and
industrial output grew more than economists forecast.  China has boosted  interest rates  four times since
September, increased banks’ reserve requirements to a record and
allowed the yuan to gain about 1.6 percent against the dollar
this year.  Roubini said yesterday in  Singapore  that China’s inflation
may remain elevated after excessive monetary growth and
advocated faster yuan gains as one remedy. He said the
“optimistic” view is that price gains will moderate on so-
called base effects and a moderation in commodity prices.  In India “growth has been robust and inflation has picked
up, and now policy rates are going to be negative in real
terms,” said Roubini, who was among analysts to predict the
global financial crisis of 2007-2009. “Further tightening is
reasonably warranted.”  Consumer Demand  India’s gross domestic product rose 7.8 percent in the
three months ended March 31 from a year earlier, the weakest
pace in five quarters, government data show. Still, the
expansion is the quickest after  China  among large economies,
bolstered by higher incomes in the nation of 1.2 billion people.  Salaries in India in 2011 will likely rise the most in the
Asia-Pacific region, a survey by Aon Hewitt LLC showed March 8.
 Government spending  under the National Rural Employment
Guarantee Act of 2005 has surged almost fourfold to 399 billion
rupees ($8.9 billion), propping up demand in the countryside.  Inflation may quicken as economists expect food costs to
rise after Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s coalition increased
the prices it pays farmers for food grains and oilseeds. The
federal government sets the crop prices to assure farmers’
incomes, while selling subsidized grains and cooking oils to the
poor.  Prices may also be under pressure as India plans to allow
state-run refiners such as Indian Oil Corp. to increase diesel
tariffs.  A panel of Indian ministers will meet “shortly” to
consider raising fuel costs, oil minister S. Jaipal Reddy said
yesterday. The state-run refiners had a revenue loss of 450
billion rupees in the first quarter from selling fuel below
cost, Reddy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  