-- 
Indian Rupee Gains on Optimism Yield Advantage Will Lure Funds

-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 
2011-06-14T11:53:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/indian-rupee-gains-on-optimism-yield-advantage-will-lure-funds.html
India ’s rupee gained the most in two
weeks on speculation the central bank will raise  interest rates 
this week for the fourth time this year, helping draw global
funds to local assets.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will increase its benchmark
repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 7.5
percent at a June 16 meeting to cool inflation, according to the
median estimate of 19 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Overseas
funds bought $197 million more rupee-denominated debt than they
sold this month, after boosting holdings by $603 million in May,
according to the Securities & Exchange Board of India.  “The rupee market is pricing in the probability that
further rate increases by the RBI will attract more capital
inflows,” said Sudarshan Bhatt, chief currency trader at
 Corporation Bank  in Mumbai.  India’s currency appreciated 0.3 percent to 44.745 per
dollar as of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That is the biggest advance since June 1
and trimmed this quarter’s loss to 0.3 percent, still the
second-worst performance among  Asia ’s 10 most-used currencies.
The rupee may trade between 44.50 and 45.20 in the coming month,
Bhatt predicted.  The South Asian nation’s 10-year government bonds yield
8.33 percent, the most among Asia’s investment-grade debt and
more than double the 3.01 percent on similar-dated U.S.
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate
has climbed 41 basis points, or 0.35 percentage point, this year.  Monetary Policy   The central bank needs to take further monetary measures to
curb inflation, Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of the Prime
Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said in  New Delhi  today.  The benchmark wholesale-price index rose 9.06 percent from
a year earlier after an 8.66 percent jump in April, the commerce
ministry said in a statement today. The median estimate of 22
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for an 8.74 percent
increase.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 45.38 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 45.51
yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anil Varma in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 