-- 
Ineos, Tata May Be ‘Uneconomical’ in U.K. on Carbon Tax

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-06-14T14:10:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/ineos-tata-may-be-uneconomical-in-u-k-on-co2-tax-cbi-says.html
U.K. units of Ineos Group Holdings
Plc and  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  may be “uneconomical” after the
government imposes a carbon tax in 2013, according to the
Confederation of British Industries.  “We’re already seeing warnings from Ineos that its
chlorine plant in Runcorn will be uneconomical under the sudden
introduction of the proposed carbon floor price,”  John Cridland , director general at the U.K. business lobby, said
today in an e-mailed  statement . Richard Longden, a U.K.-based
spokesman for Ineos, couldn’t immediately be reached by phone.  Britain should exempt the country’s biggest power users
from its plan to set a carbon tax at 4.94 pounds ($8.10) a
metric ton in 2013 to raise revenue and promote power from wind
farms, nuclear reactors and other low-carbon sources, the CBI
said. The tax, known as a carbon floor, is based on the price of
emission permits in the European Union’s trading system.  “Tata Steel is facing the same problem,” Cridland said.
“One major construction company is now finding it cheaper to
import its cement from  Spain  than to produce it at its U.K.
plant.”  European governments should create incentives to help the
 steel industry  reduce emissions instead of raising taxes, Tata
Steel said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Taxing energy-intensive industries on their emissions is
neither business-friendly nor an effective solution,” according
to the statement. “The steel industry in Europe is already
investing in the expensive and time-consuming process of
developing breakthrough technologies, without which the best
environmental performers here cannot significantly reduce their
emissions further.”  The carbon tax will raise costs for power producers, which
is likely to be passed on to consumers, the CBI said. It called
for exemptions for industries most at risk and proposed a rebate
based on  energy efficiency .  The CBI, Britain’s biggest business lobby, said policies to
reduce emissions may be “counter-productive” and hold back
investment and growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  