-- 
Infigen to Sell German Wind-Energy Assets, Scrap Dividends

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-06-14T06:45:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/infigen-energy-to-sell-wind-power-assets-in-germany-scraps-dividends.html
Infigen Energy (IFN) , an Australian
developer of renewable-energy projects, agreed to sell its
German wind-power assets for 154.6 million euros ($222 million)
to a European fund that it didn’t identify.  The wind-farm developer is awaiting German regulatory
approval that may take 30 days, Infigen said today in a
statement. The company said it plans to use the proceeds to cut
debt and will provide details on the sale of the assets, which
have a capacity of 128.7 megawatts, when the deal is completed.  Infigen scrapped a plan in April 2010 to sell the German
assets and later that month abandoned an effort to dispose of
its U.S. wind-energy business after failing to attract high
enough bids. The Sydney-based company, formerly known as Babcock
& Brown Wind Partners, is focusing on Australian wind-power
projects as the government moves toward a target of generating
20 percent of the nation’s power from renewable sources by 2020.  “This gives them some further cash buffer, so that’s a
positive,”  John Hirjee , a Melbourne-based analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG, said by telephone. “But the key question is what’s
happening with the U.S. strategy and whether they will revisit a
sale of that asset as well.”  Deutsche Bank previously estimated the German assets were
worth about A$160 million ($170 million), Hirjee said.  The renewable-energy developer, whose shares have dropped
almost 60 percent in Sydney in the past 12 months, won’t pay
dividends in the years ending in June 2012 and June 2013 to help
fund expansion in Australia, Infigen said in a separate
statement today. The company will give an update on future
distributions before the end of 2013, according to the statement.  Woodlawn Project  While the company would consider bidders for the U.S.
assets, there’s no “formal” effort to sell them, Richard
Farrell, the company’s investor relations manager, said by phone.  Infigen said today it still expects to complete the
Woodlawn wind farm by the end of this year. The energy generated
by the project could power 23,000 homes and help New South Wales
state meet rising electricity demand, according to the company.  Shares of Infigen rose 7.6 percent to 35.5 Australian cents
at the 4:10 p.m. close in Sydney, the most since April 21. That
compared with a 0.5 percent increase in the benchmark S&P/ASX
200 Index. Infigen closed at 86.5 cents on June 15 of last year.  The company is also competing for funding from  Australia ’s
A$1.5 billion solar power initiative. Infigen and Suntech Power
Holdings Co. of  China , which have jointly proposed a venture
using photovoltaic panels to turn sunlight into power, are among
companies picked to advance in the contest for funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 