-- 
Web IPO Boom Splits VC Haves From Have-Nots

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-06-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/linkedin-led-web-ipo-boom-separates-venture-capital-haves-from-have-nots.html
LinkedIn Corp. and Groupon Inc. are
leading a surge in Web-company initial share sales that
underscores a deepening chasm between the venture-capital
industry’s haves and have-nots.  Sequoia Capital ,  Greylock Partners ,  Accel Partners  and
Andreessen Horowitz are among the few firms that own stakes in
the most valuable startups, giving them access to promising
entrepreneurs and plenty of money for new funds. The majority of
the industry, meanwhile, is struggling to raise capital.  LinkedIn’s IPO has produced more than $2 billion in paper
profits for backers, including Sequoia and Greylock, while
Groupon’s two top outside investors,  New Enterprise Associates 
and Accel, may own a $5 billion stake when the daily-deal site
goes public. Funds not in those companies or their highly valued
peers are being shut out in the hunt for new Internet deals,
meaning fewer firms are poised to reap the expected returns.  “The rich are getting richer, and they’re finding the
better products and better companies at better valuations,”
said David Schwartz, co-chair of the emerging companies and
 venture-capital  practice at law firm  Michelman & Robinson LLP  in
New York. “It’s making it very complicated for second-tier
funds.”  Success in venture capital opens the door to better deals
because entrepreneurs seek out connections to a firm’s existing
portfolio companies, and view the partners as having a better
understanding of emerging trends.  Venture Capital Swings  The venture industry has been shrinking in the past decade.
The dot-com bust and global financial crisis put scores of
startups out of business, and made it harder for the survivors
to go public. Venture firms raised $12.5 billion for funds in
2010, down 52 percent from 2008 and the lowest in seven years,
according to the  National Venture Capital Association .  The drought in IPOs helped push the number of active
venture capital firms down by 47 percent in the first half of
2010, according to Ernst & Young LLP. In October, the accounting
firm said the number of U.S. venture firms making at least one
investment a quarter sank to 167 through June 2010, compared
with 313 for all of 2009. The decline created a class of
“walking dead” firms -- those that are only working with their
existing portfolio companies and don’t have cash to make new
investments, Ernst & Young said.  An IPO resurgence is bringing some money back. Fundraising
jumped 76 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier to
$7.1 billion, NVCA said. At least 294 companies have announced
plans for U.S. IPOs this year, more than in the same period for
any other year since 2000, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Venture capitalists make money when companies they invest in go
public or get acquired.  LinkedIn, Groupon, Pandora  LinkedIn became the first major U.S. social media company
to sell shares to the public. The professional-networking site,
which held its initial sale last month, is now valued at $7.2
billion. Pandora Media Inc. is expected to price its shares
later today and begin trading tomorrow. Groupon has also filed
for an initial sale this year, and online game developer Zynga
Inc. is expected to register for an IPO by the end of June.  Facebook Inc., the biggest social network, said it plans to
start reporting financial results by April 2012, and is valued
at $52.8 billion on secondary exchange  SharesPost Inc.  Twitter
Inc., which hasn’t announced plans to go public, is valued at
$6.6 billion on the exchange.  Biggest Winners  A handful of venture-capital firms are likely to be the
biggest winners in all of these deals.  Greylock was an early backer of LinkedIn, Facebook and
Pandora and a later investor in Groupon, whose IPO may value the
company at as much as $25 billion, people familiar with the
matter said in March. Accel has big stakes in Facebook and
Groupon, and Union Square Ventures in  New York  was among the
first investors in Twitter, Zynga and mobile-application
developer Foursquare Labs Inc.  Andreessen Horowitz, started by Internet pioneer  Marc Andreessen , owns shares in Facebook, Zynga, Groupon, Twitter and
Foursquare.  “We’ve been attractive to entrepreneurs, repeat and first-
time, because we’re a firm that’s made up of former
entrepreneurs and operating executives,” said Scott Weiss, who
joined Andreessen Horowitz as a general partner in March and
previously co-founded security company IronPort Systems Inc.
“We’re certainly seeing our fair share of great deals.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is an
investor in Andreessen Horowitz.  Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers was late to social media,
buying shares in Facebook, Groupon and Twitter in the past year
at multibillion-dollar valuations. The exception was the firm’s
2008 investment in Zynga.  Andreessen Horowitz  Menlo Park , California-based Andreessen Horowitz is the top
firm based on probability of success in the next decade,
according to Chris Farmer, a venture partner at General Catalyst
Partners in  Palo Alto ,  California . He has spent 15 years
researching venture capital.  The rest of the top five are Sequoia, Accel,  Benchmark
Capital  and Union Square, Farmer said, using a method he
developed called InvestorRank that predicts success based on
current investments and relationships.  Farmer estimates that two-thirds of the industry’s returns
over the next 10 years will come from 15 firms, down from 50
during and after the dot-com boom. He presented his analysis at
the TechCrunch Disrupt Conference in New York last month.  “The strong have, if anything, increased their franchises,
and a lot of the other ones have become pawns,” Farmer said in
an interview. “There are countless firms that have raised a
fraction of what they had a decade ago.”  Funds’ Size  Draper Fisher Jurvetson, Menlo Ventures and Highland
Capital Partners LLC have cut the size of their newest funds,
while Greylock, Accel, Sequoia and Bessemer Venture Partners
have reeled in at least $1 billion each for theirs.  “Very large funds are good for leading very large rounds
in late-stage companies that distanced themselves from
competitors and are well on their way to stardom,” said Shawn Carolan, a managing director at Menlo Ventures. “Having the
bandwidth to spend with great founders building great companies
is where we can best deliver value to the entrepreneurial
community and our investors. We’re very proud of our results.”  Peter Bell, a general partner at Highland Capital, said the
latest fund, at $400 million, met the firm’s goals.  “For what we’re doing in terms of venture, that feels like
a really good size,” he said. “Our returns continue to be very
strong.”  Marta Bulaich, a representative of Draper Fisher Jurvetson,
declined to comment.  Newcomers  Some of the money coming into venture capital is going to
funds that weren’t even around during the dot-com boom.
Andreessen Horowitz was founded in 2009, and Fred Wilson opened
Union Square in 2003. Twitter backer Mike Maples started his
firm, now called Floodgate Fund LP, in 2006, and  Foundry Group ,
the first venture investor in Zynga, opened in 2007.  These younger firms have stood out by catching trends in
social networking, online games and mobile apps and getting in
at the earliest stages, said Eric Ries, an entrepreneur and
author of  “The Lean Startup,”  being published this year.  “They have a new prominence, especially in Web circles,”
said Ries, who is based in  San Francisco . Still, for firms like
Sequoia and  Kleiner Perkins , “the brand is so strong that
entrepreneurs have faith that things will happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  