-- 
Intel, IBM May Benefit From Green-Card Bill for Skilled Workers

-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 
2011-06-14T21:21:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/intel-microsoft-may-benefit-from-bill-for-more-skilled-worker-green-cards.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  may
have help in their multiyear effort to bring more high-skill
workers from overseas into the U.S. under a bill Representative
Zoe Lofgren introduced today.  Lofgren, a Democrat from  California , introduced a bill that
would provide green cards, or permanent residence, to more
foreign students who earn at least a master’s degree in science
or engineering at U.S. universities. It also gives green cards
to foreign entrepreneurs who start companies employing five or
more U.S. citizens.  Technology companies, from Intel and Microsoft to
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , have backed efforts to
make it easier for scientists and engineers from abroad to come
to the U.S. Many scientists come to the U.S. for their post-
graduate education and leave when they can’t get a visa to stay,
said Peter  Cleveland , Intel’s vice president of global public
policy.  “We drop the ball when we let these individuals take this
education elsewhere,” he said in a phone interview. “We should
have them stay here and work for Apple, work for Facebook, work
for Intel.”  Graduates with master’s degrees and higher in science,
technology, engineering and math who get jobs related to their
degrees would qualify for green cards under Lofgren’s bill.
Entrepreneurs from abroad would get a temporary residence and
could petition to stay permanently after two years if their
businesses are still open and employing U.S. citizens.  Republican Co-Sponsor  Lofgren is looking for a Republican to co-sponsor the bill.  “I hope we will have Republican support,” she said in a
phone interview today.  The bill is broader than past efforts, said Ron Hira, an
associate professor of public policy at the Rochester Institute
of Technology, citing other bills that haven’t been passed. In
2009, Representative Jeff Flake, a Republican from  Arizona ,
introduced a bill that would have allowed in more foreign
graduates with doctorate degrees. It never left the House
Judiciary Committee.  “There’s a lot more master’s than Ph.Ds,” Hira said.  Current laws cap the number of employment-based green cards
at 140,000 per year. Under the bill, the green cards for
graduates and entrepreneurs wouldn’t count against the quotas.  The bill also would keep workers’ spouses and children from
counting against caps and reclassify some workers, such as
fashion models, to other visas.  Intel’s Support  The bill “would not only make it easier for U.S. companies
to hire the workforce they need but will address the concerns of
foreign-born workers who must deal with the challenges and
uncertainties of the immigration system,” Intel said in an e-
mailed statement. About 6 percent of Intel’s 45,000 domestic
employees are on visas, Cleveland said last month.  Companies would pay a fee of about $2,000 to get graduates
the green cards, which would fund the visa program, as well as
scholarships for U.S. students in science, technology,
engineering and math.  “We ought to keep the best and brightest and we ought to
educate the American students,” Lofgren said. “The two are not
in opposition to each other.”  Intel and other companies have lobbied for green cards for
foreign scientists and engineers.  “We’re highly dependent on very, very high-skilled
engineers,” said Brian Toohey, president of the  Semiconductor
Industry Association , which represents companies such as IBM and
Texas Instruments Inc. “We don’t have enough engineers at the
right skill level in this country.”  Temporary Visas  When graduates from abroad find jobs at U.S. companies,
they often first apply for temporary visas, such as H1-Bs. The
process of turning that into a green card can often take up to a
decade, during which employees can’t leave their jobs, Cleveland
said.  Some companies abuse the H-1B program by using it to import
cheap labor in place of local workers, Lofgren said at a
Congressional hearing in March. The bill gives the Department of
Labor more oversight to ensure companies pay the prevailing
wages, she said. It also keeps them from charging fees to
recruit workers.  “These individuals get frustrated,” Cleveland said.
“They think to themselves, ‘Why not go back to Chengdu or go
back to  New Delhi  and create the next big company there?’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Hoffmann in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 