-- 
Investors Hold Cash as Hedge Funds Cut Debt

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-06-14T13:19:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/investors-pile-into-cash-as-hedge-funds-cut-debt-merrill-says.html
Global investors increased their
cash holdings to the highest in a year this month as  hedge funds 
slashed the level of borrowed money invested in stocks, a BofA
Merrill Lynch Global Research survey showed.  A net 18 percent of 282 respondents, who together manage
$828 billion, were “overweight” cash, the highest since June
2010. That compares with 6 percent in May. Hedge funds cut their
so-called gearing levels to 1.27 times capital from 1.53 and an
index of risk appetite dropped to 38 from 43, falling below its
long-term average of 40 for the first time in nine months.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index has lost 4.4 percent in June as U.S.
jobs and manufacturing data trailed forecasts and speculation
grew that Greece may default on its debt. The gauge is still up
1.2 percent this year, buoyed by record-low borrowing costs and
government stimulus measures. The measure climbed 0.6 percent at
9:18 a.m. in  New York  today as  China ’s industrial output topped
economists’ estimates.  “Risk is clearly off this month,” Patrik Schowitz, a
European equity strategist at BofA Merrill Lynch, said at a
press conference in  London  today. “Our feeling is the worst is
actually behind us, unless we see another leg down in global
growth expectations.”  Equities, Commodities  Investors cut their holdings of equities and commodities
even as the outlook for global growth and corporate profits
stabilized following three months of declines, the survey
showed. Two-thirds of respondent said they don’t expect the
 Federal Reserve  to begin a third round of quantitative easing
stimulus measures, known as QE3.  A net 27 percent of money managers were “overweight”
equities in June, from 41 percent in May, while holdings in
commodities were trimmed to 6 percent overweight from 12
percent, the survey showed. Respondents reduced their
“underweight” in bonds to a net 35 percent, from 44 percent
last month.  “We have seen a deterioration of risk appetite but there
is no sense of investor panic,” said Schowtiz. “Where risk has
been taken off it’s been taken as more of a wait and see. An
awful lot of bad economic data is priced into the market.”  Developing countries remained the most favored market among
respondents, with a net 23 percent overweight the region, down
from 29 percent. U.S. equities came in second place, with 20
percent overweight.  Japan ,  Europe  and the U.K. remained out of
favor as investors further increased their underweight position
in all three regions.  This month’s survey was conducted from June 3 to June 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ; 