-- 
Messi’s Argentina Plays for Cut Price in India to Boost Growth

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-14T23:01:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/lionel-messi-s-argentina-plays-at-cut-price-to-boost-asian-soccer-fanbase.html
Lionel Messi ’s Argentina will play
two exhibition matches in India and Bangladesh at a discount
rate as his team tries to expand its fan base in one of the
world’s most populous regions.  Argentina, a two-time soccer  World Cup  winner, agreed to
play Venezuela in Kolkata, India, on Sept. 2 before moving to
Bangladesh capital Dhaka to meet Nigeria four days later.  World
Eleven SA , the company that owns the rights to Argentina’s
exhibition rights, said it promised to take the best national
roster and reduced its asking price.  “We have made a good price for them because we are
interested in opening up new markets,” World Eleven President
Guillermo Tofoni said in a telephone interview. “It’s
interesting because our idea is to play with our top players
including Messi because we see lots of opportunities in  India .”  Messi, a double  FIFA  World Player of the Year, is likely to
be joined by players including  Javier Mascherano , his club mate
at Barcelona, which won the European Cup and Spanish
championship last season. Manchester City striker  Carlos Tevez 
is also set to participate.  Tofoni and Dharamdutt Pandey, chief executive officer of
Kolkata-based Celebrity Management Group, which bought the game
rights, declined to say how much the deal is worth. In 2009,
Tofoni said World Eleven charged about $1 million for an
Argentina game. Pandey’s group arranged an Indian promotional
tour for Argentine soccer icon Diego Maradona in 2008.  India’s economic expansion is the second-fastest after
 China  among the world’s largest economies amid rising incomes in
a nation of 1.2 billion people.  Dominant Sport  The $1.3 trillion economy grew 7.8 percent last quarter
from a year earlier after having expanded 8.3 percent in the
previous three-month period, according to government figures.
 Bangladesh ’s population is about 150 million.  While cricket is both countries’ dominant sport, rivals
such as soccer and basketball are trying to get the attention of
its expanding middle class. Four-time European champion  Bayern
Munich  attracted 120,000 spectators when it played an exhibition
there in May 2008. The  National Basketball Association  last
month announced a partnership with India’s largest media
company, Times Group, and also sponsors a multicity league.  India and Bangladesh are ranked 145th and 163rd in world
ruling body FIFA’s rankings. That’s below the likes of the  Faroe
Islands , Turkmenistan and Gambia.  ‘War Footing’  “Having Messi playing in our country would be a dream come
true for the football lovers of our nation,” Pandey said.
“Cricket in India is very big, we are the world champions, but
India at the same time has football followers too.
Unfortunately, we do not get the best of football in our country
live.”  Many teams are put off going to India because of concerns
about its soccer infrastructure. Madan Mitra, sports minister of
the state of West Bengal, said the tour may be in jeopardy
because Kolkata’s  Salt Lake Stadium  was in “terrible
condition.”  “Unless we work on a war footing, the city will miss out
on seeing Messi in action,” he said. Pandey said the facility
only needed “some touch-ups.”  World Eleven officials and representatives from the
Argentine soccer federation plan to travel to India in the
coming weeks, Tofoni said.  Tickets for the games are likely to be priced between $20
and $100, Pandey said. The average Indian’s annual income grew
14.5 percent to 46,492 rupees ($1,039) in 2009-10, according to
government figures.  “It’s always a business for us,” Pandey said. “You
cannot run at a loss. Certainly we expect to break even at the
very least.”  World Eleven has renewed its contract with  Argentina  for 24
games through 2014. Tofoni said his company paid “a little bit
more” than the $18 million it paid in 2006 for its first 24-
game contract. Argentina is currently preparing to host the  Copa
America , the South American championship it last won in 1993.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  