-- 
Iraq Veteran West Won’t Flinch at Selling Medicare Cuts to Florida Seniors

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/iraq-veteran-west-won-t-flinch-at-selling-medicare-cuts-to-florida-seniors.html
If some U.S.  House Republicans  are
having qualms about the political fallout over their plan to
privatize Medicare, Allen West isn’t one of them.  Less than two weeks after voter opposition to the Medicare
proposal helped elect a Democrat to an open House seat in New
York, West offered constituents in his south  Florida  district an
unambiguous defense of the plan that Republicans say is needed
to save the federal insurance program for the elderly.  “We have got to do something about this program or else,”
he told voters of the 22nd Congressional District at a June 6
town-hall meeting at  Old Davie School Historical Museum , a 1918
national landmark that sits amid Florida’s commercial and
residential sprawl.  “The clock is ticking -- 2024 and it goes away,” he said,
referring to the first year when Medicare will be unable to pay
full benefits, according to its trustees. “It won’t even be
here for some of the seniors who are about to enter this
program.”  West, 50, is among 10 House Republicans  identified  by the
 National Republican Congressional Committee  as likely to be
targeted by Democrats next year because President  Barack Obama 
carried their districts in 2008. For many, the future of
Medicare looms as one of the largest issues.  Already, two Democrats have said they are running against
West, one of the Tea Party-backed candidates whose victories in
November’s midterm elections enabled Republicans to control the
 House of Representatives  this session. Lois Frankel, a former
mayor of  West Palm Beach , and businessman Patrick Murphy have
declared their candidacies, setting up a Democratic primary next
year. The nonpartisan Cook Political Report in Washington rates
West’s re-election chances as a  tossup .  ‘Swing District’  Mitch Ceasar, the Democratic Party chairman in Broward
County, which includes  Fort Lauderdale , calls the 22nd the
“definition of a swing district.”  It  stretches  from Fort Lauderdale north along Florida’s
southeast coast to Jupiter, with several inland enclaves in  Palm
Beach  County. Palm Beach,  Boca Raton  and Fort Lauderdale, home
to billionaire investor H. Wayne Huizenga, make the area the
richest of Florida’s 25 congressional districts, with a median
household income of $62,111, 2009 census data show.  According to the 2010 census, 20.4 percent of the
district’s 694,259 residents are 65 or older, meaning they are
among the nation’s 48 million Medicare recipients.  A Republican plan passed by the U.S. House in April would
offer vouchers for the purchase of private health insurance when
people become eligible for Medicare.  The plan has met with public resistance so far: A
Washington Post-ABC News  nationwide poll  of 1,002 adults
conducted June 2-5 found that 49 percent of voters oppose the
idea and 32 percent support it.  Ammunition for Democrats  While the plan stands little chance of becoming law,
Democrats are already using it as a campaign issue against
Republicans.  Democrat Kathy Hochul won the May 24 special election in a
reliably Republican House district in western  New York  after
criticizing her opponent for endorsing the Medicare plan
contained in the House-passed 2012 budget resolution.  Democrats contend that Ryan’s plan would shortchange future
beneficiaries because the premium subsidy wouldn’t keep pace
with rising insurance costs.  They cite an April 5  letter  to Ryan from the  Congressional
Budget Office  in which the CBO determined that by 2030 a typical
65-year-old under the Republican plan would pay 68 percent of
his or her health-care costs, compared with 25 percent to 30
percent under traditional Medicare.  At stake, Republicans say, is the future of the program,
which is among the main drivers of the  budget deficit  -- and the
party’s plan is intended to curb costs.  Constituents Get It  Another freshman Republican, Lou Barletta, represents the
11th Congressional District in northeastern  Pennsylvania , where
census data show that 16.4 percent of the 687,860 residents are
over 65. He said his constituents see the need for the plan.  “I’ve been encouraged by the conversations we’ve had with
seniors back home,” Barletta, whose re-election is also rated a
tossup by the Cook Political Report, said in an interview.  These voters “understand that nothing will happen to their
benefits, but they are concerned about their children and
grandchildren and whether Medicare will be there for them.”  Not all Republicans offer unwavering defenses of the
language drafted by Wisconsin Representative Paul Ryan, chairman
of the House Budget Committee.  Last month, Representative Dave Camp of  Michigan , the
chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, which has
primary jurisdiction over Medicare, said he has no plans to
draft legislation revamping the program.  Just Numbers  Ohio Republican Steve LaTourette said he tells voters that
the House budget resolution is just “a set of numbers.” Only
after two other committees draft legislation will they “be able
to sit down and talk about it,” he said.  “I’m not having any trouble,” LaTourette said in an
interview.  West, a blunt-spoken retired Army lieutenant colonel who is
one of only two black Republican House members, doesn’t shrink
from the issue of overhauling Medicare -- or from criticizing
members of his own party.  In April, he voted against the deal negotiated by House
Speaker  John Boehner  to reduce $38.5 billion in  government
spending , saying it would result in only $352 million in actual
cuts this year.  “I like people to be upfront with me,” he told reporters
at the time. “Surprises are for birthdays.”  Last month, West took issue with a bipartisan group of
lawmakers calling for faster troop withdrawals from  Afghanistan ,
telling reporters: “Just because you killed  Osama bin Laden 
does not mean the Taliban stop fighting.”  Obama’s Leadership  West, who retired from the military after being reprimanded
for firing a gun close to the head of a detainee while in  Iraq ,
added, “I would take these gentlemen over and let them be shot
at a few times. Maybe they’d have a different opinion.”  He is trying to focus the 2012 election campaign on Obama’s
leadership, telling his constituents that the president and his
fellow Democrats aren’t offering the right solutions for the
nation’s economic and fiscal ills.  “We can agree” that the 2008 financial crisis “was a bad
situation,” West said at the Davie town-hall meeting. “But the
thing is, leaders don’t take bad situations and make them worse.
Leaders take bad situations and come up with viable solutions.”  Then he was asked about Medicare.  ‘Destroying Medicare’  “What ideas do you have to reduce the cost of delivery of
Medicare for seniors versus just shifting the cost for Medicare
to the patient?” said a written question from “Elizabeth from
Fort Lauderdale.”  West said Congress must “introduce a defined-contribution
premium-support plan” because fee-for-service payments to
doctors and hospitals are “destroying Medicare.”  Another written query warned West: “Don’t cut Medicare.”
He took that as an opportunity to attack the health-care
overhaul the Democrats passed last year when they controlled
Congress.  “There is a group of individuals that voted last year to
cut Medicare,” he said. “They voted $500 billion out of
Medicare” to help finance the legislation.  The Republicans “are not leaving any American in the
lurch” because “if you are of a lower-income rate as a senior,
you will be taken care of,” West said. He told the audience of
more than 200 that only people younger than 55 would be affected
by the proposed changes because the new system would begin in
2022.  Significant Impact  Democrats say that impact would be significant. If Ryan’s
plan is enacted, 124,000 current residents of West’s district
who are between the ages of 44 and 54 would have to save from
$182,000 to $287,000 to pay for future health-care costs,
according to a  report  by the Democratic staff of the House
Energy and Commerce Committee.  Financial planner Joni Simon, 65, of Weston, said she was
reassured by West’s words that Republicans “would not just give
us a voucher and throw us to the wolves.”  Ed Brown, 65, a retired Social Security Administration
official, said he wasn’t convinced that the comprehensive change
Republicans are proposing is necessary.  He said Congress should first see “if you can save
Medicare by cutting some of the money that will be spent
frivolously” on other programs.  “I like Medicare the way it was,” Brown, a Republican,
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  