-- 
Third Avenue Likes Lennar, Weyerhaeuser Shares on Diversity of Businesses

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-14T17:35:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/third-avenue-likes-lennar-weyerhaeuser-shares-on-diversity-of-businesses.html
Lennar Corp. (LEN)  and  Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) 
are attractive real estate stocks because of their diverse
business lines, said Jason Wolf, a  fund manager  at Third Avenue
Management LLC.  Lennar’s Rialto Investments unit, which manages and trades
distressed property assets, acts as “a hedge” for the
homebuilder against the housing slump, Wolf, co-manager of the
Third Avenue Real Estate Value Fund, said today at a Bloomberg
Link Money Managers Conference in  Boston . Weyerhaeuser, the
country’s second-biggest timberland owner, has increased revenue
by expanding sales outside the U.S., he said.  Weyerhaeuser, based in Federal Way,  Washington , was the
fund’s 13th largest investment and Miami-based Lennar was the
16th biggest as of Jan. 31, according to Bloomberg data. The
fund, with assets of about $1.89 billion, has a year-to-date
return of 3.1 percent through yesterday, ranking it 23rd among
its peers.  Lennar shares have gained about 13 percent in the last 12
months, the second-best performance in the 12-member Standard &
Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index. Weyerhaeuser shares
increased about 25 percent in the same period.  Third Avenue is increasing its international holdings, such
as homebuilders in the U.K. and real estate investment trusts in
 Australia , Wolf said. Stocks and real estate are performing
better in those countries than in the U.S., he said. His fund is
avoiding U.S. REIT stocks, which he said have gained an average
of about 125 percent since March 2009, growth that can’t be
justified by fundamentals.  Third Avenue Management, a New York-based advisory firm for
private and institutional clients, had $14 billion under
management when Wolf was named as the real estate fund’s co-
manager in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net 
Kathleen M. Howley in New York at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 