-- 
Israel Electric’s Gas Talks Delay to Be Short, Analysts Say

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-15T14:36:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/israel-electric-s-delay-on-gas-talks-to-be-short-analysts-say.html
Israel  Electric Corp.’s suspension
of talks to buy natural gas from the nation’s first offshore
site may be only a temporary hurdle before it signs a contract
the field’s partners need to finance drilling, analysts said.  Israel Electric said yesterday it was halting talks to
examine a state regulator ruling that would prohibit it from
raising rates regardless of the price it agrees to pay for gas
from the Tamar field. The company is close to an agreement for
the gas, Israeli newspaper Globes reported yesterday, without
saying where it got the information.  Gas finds are important to Israel as gas flow from  Egypt 
has been disrupted twice this year. Egyptian gas, imported to
Israel by East Mediterranean Gas Go., has provided a substantial
portion of energy to Israel’s power stations. The new finds will
reduce Israel’s dependence on Egypt after  Hosni Mubarak  was
ousted as president and criticism over the gas deal with Israel
grows.  “The suspension of talks between Israel Electric and the
Tamar group will be short and the deal will be signed soon,”
Yaron Zer, a Tel Aviv-based analyst at Clal Finance Brokerage
Ltd., wrote in an e-mailed report. Both sides have an interest
in getting the contract finished, he said.  Gas Production  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL) , the Houston-based owner of 36 percent of
Tamar, estimates the field holds as much as 8.4 trillion cubic
feet of gas. It is expected to start producing gas by the end of
next year, according to Noble’s website. Israel Electric, based
in Haifa, generates and transmits almost all of the nation’s
power.  Noble is also a partner in the Leviathan gas discovery,
which together with Tamar may hold 25 trillion cubic feet of
gas, double the U.K.’s proven reserves in 2009, the U.S. company
has said.  Isramco Negev 2 LP, which owns 29 percent of Tamar, dropped
6.2 percent to 0.412 shekel at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv 
after rising 11 percent the previous two days. Other Israeli
partners in the field, Avner Oil Exploration-LP and Delek
Drilling-LP, also fell after gains.  Delek Drilling Chief Executive Officer Yossi Abu said
yesterday the group’s policy is to not discuss negotiations in
the press.  ‘Done Deal’  “Everyone knows that that Tamar is a done deal and that
Tamar will supply the gas for Israel Electric,” Guil Bashan, an
analyst at Tel Aviv-based IBI-Israel Brokerage & Investments,
said yesterday. It’s less urgent for Israel Electric to sign the
deal than for Tamar’s owners because the partners haven’t
finished financing the project and need the contract to show the
banks, he said.  Isramco, which analysts say has the most to benefit from
the success of Tamar field, has dropped 5.5 percent this year,
outperforming its Israeli partners in the project and the
benchmark TA-25 Index. Delek Drilling has declined 22 percent
this year and Avner has lost 21 percent.  While Delek and Avner have stakes in other major prospects,
 Petah Tikva , Israel-based Isramco’s value is in Tamar, Bashan
said.  Isramco said May 16 it signed loan agreements to receive a
total of $750 million to fund Tamar drilling. The company and
other partners in the Med Yavne gas site said today they were
asked by the Infrastructures Ministry, to develop the “Or”
field at the site.  Price Cuts  The Tamar partners already have agreed to drop the price to
the electric company in what “could be the largest gas-supply
contract in Israeli history, exceeding $20 billion,” Tel Aviv-
based Meitav Investment House Ltd. said in an e-mailed note
yesterday.  The group has been seeking to revise terms of an initial
understanding with Israel Electric after a government-appointed
committee recommended raising oil and gas taxes, the Calcalist
newspaper reported on Feb. 14. Another committee plans to change
regulations so natural-gas prices will be state monitored, the
paper reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Tel Aviv at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  