-- 
Israel’s Current-Account Surplus Narrows on Trade Deficit

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-06-14T12:15:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/israel-s-current-account-surplus-narrows-on-trade-deficit-1-.html
Israel ’s  current-account surplus 
narrowed in the first quarter as rising energy costs and a
strengthening shekel buoyed imports, triggering the first
quarterly trade deficit in two years.  The seasonally adjusted surplus was $371 million, down from
a revised $565 billion in the previous three months, the Central
 Bureau of Statistics  said in an e-mailed statement today. The
quarterly average last year was $1.6 billion, it said.  “In the first quarter, we had a trade deficit as imports
of raw materials and  consumer goods  increased faster than the
increase in the exports of goods,” Modi Shafrir, chief
economist at Tel Aviv-based I.L.S. Brokers Ltd., said by
telephone before the release. “Prices rose, but there was also
an increase in the amount of imports.”  Israel’s current-account surplus is expected to decline as
imports increase and terms of trade deteriorate, the  Bank of
Israel  said in a June 1  forecast . The surplus probably will
shrink to $2.6 billion in 2011, less than half the amount
recorded last year, and to $1.2 billion in 2012, it said.  The shekel has strengthened by about 12 percent against the
dollar during the past 12 months.  “The decline in the current account surplus in the coming
two years will diminish the forces which support the continued
appreciation of the shekel,” Shafrir said.  Israel posted a $540 million deficit in trade in goods and
services in the first quarter, compared with a surplus of a
similar amount in the previous quarter, the bureau said.  Investment in tradable securities by foreigners dropped to
$1.7 billion in the first quarter, compared with $4.3 billion in
the fourth quarter, when most of the investment was in short-
term Makam bills, the bureau said. Direct investment by non-
residents rose to $2.6 billion, from $2.4 billion in the
previous three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 