-- 
Israeli Consumer Prices Probably Rose 0.5% in May on Food, Fuel

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-06-14T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/israeli-consumer-prices-probably-rose-0-5-in-may-on-food-fuel.html
Israeli consumer prices probably
rose in May, as food and fuel costs climbed and the economy
expanded, a survey showed.  The  consumer-price index  advanced 0.5 percent from the
previous month, according to the median estimate of 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Annual inflation rose to 4.2
percent from 4 percent, according to the survey. The Jerusalem-
based  Central Bureau of Statistics  is scheduled to release the
data today at 6:30 p.m. local time.  Israeli consumer prices have surged as the economy recovers
from the global recession faster than most advanced countries.
Unemployment dropped to 6 percent in the first quarter, its
lowest since 2008. Inflation exceeded the government’s 1 percent
to 3 percent target for a fourth month in April.  “The underlying inflationary environment is moving up a
notch,” said  Rafael Gozlan , chief economist at Leader Capital
Markets Ltd. in  Tel Aviv . “This is supported by the nearing of
the economy to full employment.”  Bank of Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  raised the interest
rate for a fourth time this year at the end of May, bringing the
benchmark to 3.25 percent. He is unlikely to increase the rate
again at the end of June, according to 15 of 17 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg at the end of May. Two predicted Fischer
would raise the rate by a quarter percentage point.  Growth is expected to accelerate to 5.2 percent this year,
from 4.7 percent last year, the Bank of Israel said in a June 1
forecast. The economy expanded by 4.7 percent in the first
quarter, led by fixed investment and exports.  The price of milk, eggs and butter is likely to have
contributed to the increase in the consumer price index in May,
Bank Hapoalim Ltd. economists said in a report. Seasonal price
increases in fruit and vegetables and clothing and shoes also
contributed to the rise, Hapoalim said.  Gasoline prices increased by 3.1 percent in May, in part
due to the increase in global energy prices, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 