-- 
Livestock Eat More Wheat as Cheapest Corn Alternative Since 1996

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-06-14T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/livestock-eat-more-wheat-as-cheapest-corn-alternative-since-1996.html
Livestock producers in the U.S. are
feeding more wheat to cattle, hogs and poultry after the grain
became the cheapest relative to corn in 15 years.  Effingham Equity, a feed and farm-supply company based in
Effingham,  Illinois , will add wheat in its hog-feed rations for
only the second time in at least 26 years, said Mark Tarter, the
grains-department manager. The company also used wheat in 2008,
the last time corn reached a record, he said.  “We work really closely with producers to help them
control their costs,” Tarter said. “Right now, with the
inverse between corn and wheat, wheat works pretty good. You
can’t substitute one for one, but it can go into a diet pretty
easily.”  Corn futures for July delivery reached a record $7.9975 a
bushel last week on the Chicago Board of Trade, and closed at a
40.5-cent premium to July wheat on June 9, the most expensive
for the month since 1996. Corn as much as doubled in the past
year after wet weather delayed U.S. planting and demand
increased for ethanol and livestock feed. Wheat prices, up 70
percent in the past year, have pared gains as outlook for U.S.
supplies improved.  Wheat is usually more expensive than corn, the primary
source of  animal feed . Before 1996, July wheat futures last
traded at a discount to corn in 1984, exchange data show.  The corn rally means livestock operations face losses
because feed prices make up their biggest cost, said Chris Hurt,
an agricultural economist at  Purdue University . Midwest farmers
started harvesting wheat this month, adding to supply. The  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  estimates corn stockpiles will be the
tightest since 1996 before the September harvest.  More Wheat Feeding  “We’re not going to be short on wheat this next year, and
we’re really short on corn,” Hurt said by telephone from  West
Lafayette ,  Indiana . “It’s certainly more than likely that we’ll
see a considerable amount of wheat feeding.”  Effingham may replace about 20 percent of the corn used in
hog feed rations with wheat, Tarter said. Normally, corn makes
up about 50 to 65 percent of hog feed, with soybean meal and
other grains supplying the rest.  Springdale, Arkansas-based Tyson Foods Inc., the largest
U.S. meat producer, is using “limited amounts” of wheat in
some poultry operations, spokesman Gary Mickelson said in an e-
mail. At a conference on May 17, before corn prices overtook
wheat, Tyson Chief Executive Officer Donnie Smith said the
company was unlikely to use wheat, even as “we’re always
looking at alternative ingredients.”  Sanderson Farms Inc., the fourth-largest U.S. chicken
processor, does not plan to begin feeding wheat at this time,
spokesman Mike Cockrell said in an e-mail to Bloomberg News. The
company has signed contracts for much of its corn and soybean
needs through July, Chief Executive Officer Joe F. Sanderson Jr.
said May 24 on a conference call with analysts.  Record Corn  On June 10, corn futures for July delivery touched $7.9975,
the highest ever for the contract. Yesterday, the price settled
at $7.825, while wheat futures for July delivery closed at $7.76
a bushel.  Corn still will be the primary feed ingredient in the next
year, USDA data show. The agency estimates the feed and residual
use of corn will drop 2.9 percent in the year beginning Sept. 1
to 5 billion bushels. Wheat-feed usage may surge 29 percent from
a year earlier to 220 million bushels, the second-highest amount
since 2000, the USDA said.  “Most farmers are used to feeding and processing corn,”
 Ken Goldman , an analyst for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York ,
said in an e-mail. “Converting is easier said than done.”  Hog farmers may have record production costs in the third
quarter as corn and fuel prices climb, Purdue’s Hurt said.
Producers who feed only corn and soybean meal may lose money
until the first quarter of next year, while losses may become
smaller if more wheat is used, he said.  Wheat Prices  Increasing use by livestock producers may help support
wheat prices until September, when demand may shift back as the
corn harvest begins, Hurt said.  “This is one of those unique three-month periods where
we’ll be feeding a bunch of that wheat,” he said. “You’ll
probably see July wheat bid up relative to corn.”  Corn stockpiles before the start of the 2011 harvest may
drop to 730 million bushels, the lowest level since 1996, and
inventories will decline further the following year, the USDA
estimated on June 9. The agency raised its estimate for domestic
winter-wheat production to 1.45 billion bushels, 1.8 percent
more than projected in May.  Lower-Grade Wheat  Most wheat fed to livestock would likely be the soft, red
winter variety grown in the eastern Midwest, because it’s lower
in quality and located closer to many eastern U.S. hog and
poultry farms than prime corn-growing regions like  Iowa , Hurt
said. Production of the variety may surge to 434 million
bushels, up 82 percent from last year, USDA data show.  “You can pull a lot of wheat into the feed channels, and a
lot of soft red wheat is going to be coming out in the eastern
Midwest,” said Louise Gartner, the owner of brokerage Spectrum
Commodities in Beavercreek,  Ohio . “It’s a pretty easy fix for
very high corn prices, while it is discounted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  