-- 
J.C. Penney Names Apple’s Ron Johnson as Chief Executive; Shares Advance

-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-06-14T20:20:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/j-c-penney-names-apple-s-retail-head-johnson-as-new-ceo-replacing-ullman.html
     June 14 (Bloomberg) -- J.C. Penney Co. rose the most since
2000 after saying  Ron Johnson , who spearheaded the creation of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s retail empire, will take over as chief executive
officer this year at the department store chain.  Johnson, 52, will replace Myron Ullman Nov. 1, the Plano,
Texas-based company said in a statement today. He had spent more
than a decade at Apple, working with co-founder and CEO  Steve Jobs  to build the stores where customers now line up overnight
for products such as the iPhone and the iPad.  Johnson will oversee a company that is looking to lower
expenses to make up for increasing costs for materials, like
cotton. The retailer, which operates more than 1,100 stores,
this year closed its catalog business and shuttered some
locations, following talks with shareholder  William Ackman  on
how to improve results.  “It’s a credit to the company that they were able to
recruit an executive of Ron’s capabilities,” Ackman, the
retailer’s largest shareholder, said in a telephone interview.
His Pershing Square Capital Management LP disclosed a 16.5
percent stake last year in J.C. Penney, making him the largest
investor.  J.C. Penney rose $5.26, or 17 percent, to $35.37 at 4 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
percentage gain since Oct. 13, 2000. Apple climbed $5.84 to
$332.44 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  ‘Greatest Company’  Johnson, a former  Target Corp. (TGT)  executive, was hired by Jobs
to help build the company’s retail operation in 2000. From the
first stores opened in 2001 in California and  Virginia , Johnson
expanded the business to more than 300 locations, generating
revenue of $3.19 billion in the quarter ended in March, up about
90 percent from a year earlier.  “While it’s very difficult to leave Apple, perhaps the
greatest company in the world, I just wanted a chance to lead a
company in an industry that’s kind of tied to my roots in
retailing,” Johnson said today in an interview.  Johnson will receive a base salary of $1.5 million and get
an annual target bonus equal to 125 percent of his pay,
according to a regulatory filing today. He will receive a grant
of 1.66 million restricted shares valued at $50 million based on
J.C. Penney’s closing stock price on June 13. The restricted
stock is intended to compensate him for equity awards from Apple
that were going to vest on March 24.  In addition, Johnson purchased warrants to buy 7.3 million
shares valued at $50 million with an exercise price of $29.92 a
share.  Boosted Sales  “We’ve got a great retail team in place and are actively
recruiting for his replacement,” said Amy Bessette, a
spokeswoman for Apple. Johnson is the second senior executive to
leave Cupertino, California-based Apple in the past few months.
In March, Bertrand Serlet, the senior vice president for Mac
software, left the company to focus on scientific research.  J.C. Penney has sales per square foot of $153 last year,
while Apple generated $4,355, according to  Toni Sacconaghi , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  Ullman, 64, will become executive chairman of the
department-store chain, the third-biggest in the U.S. He joined
the company in 2004 after executive positions at companies
including Macy’s Inc.’s predecessor.  Ullman boosted sales at J.C. Penney 1.2 percent to $17.76
billion in 2010, reversing three straight years of declines.
Brands by Liz Claiborne, Aldo and Mango helped lift sales at
stores open at least a year by 3.8 percent last quarter. Net
income in the period ended April 30 increased 6.7 percent to $64
million.  Surging Costs  J.C. Penney and other retailers have been hurt by surging
costs for cotton, oil and labor in  Asia , with several passing
costs on to consumers. Johnson also will have to appeal to
shoppers as they scrimp on trips to stores because they can’t
keep up with the price of fuel.  “They are very lucky -- it’s a big win for them,”  Brian Marshall , an analyst with Gleacher & Co. in  San Francisco , said
of Johnson’s move. “He wanted another challenge to fix
something and he saw it at J.C. Penney.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  