-- 
Japan’s Richest Man Takes on Atomic Future With Solar Plans

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-06-15T03:25:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/japan-s-richest-man-challenges-nuclear-future-with-nationwide-solar-plans.html
Billionaire Masayoshi Son has a
track record in taking on monopolies after building a business
that opened up the nation’s telecommunications industry. Now he
aims to shake up Japan’s power utilities after the worst nuclear
crisis in 25 years.  Son, the 53-year-old chief executive officer of  Softbank
Corp. (9984) , plans to build solar farms to generate electricity with
support from at least 33 of Japan’s 47 prefectures. In return,
he’s asking for access to transmission networks owned by the 10
regional utilities and an agreement they buy his electricity.  Radiation has spread across at least 600 square kilometers
(230 square miles) in northeastern Japan after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami caused reactor meltdowns at the Fukushima
nuclear plant. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said in May he will
rethink a plan to increase atomic power to 50 percent of the
nation’s total from 30 percent. Renewable energy accounts for 10
percent, according to Japan’s Agency for Natural Resources and
Energy, and Son wants that ratio to be tripled by 2020.  “The question is how this nation is going to survive after
cutting nuclear power,” Son said at a government panel meeting
June 12. “A framework should be designed in a way to make the
power business open for anyone who has the will to start it.”  Moving In  Son, who was born in Japan to Korean parents, became an
advocate of renewable energy after the disaster forced the
evacuation of more than 50,000 households and contaminated
drinking water and food. Tokyo Electric Power Co., the nation’s
largest power company, is still struggling to gain control of
the stricken reactors at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant more than
three months after the earthquake.  Son is trying to get access to the power transmission
network of Japan, said Amir Anvarzadeh, senior salesman of BGC
Partners Inc.’s Asian equity sales team in  Singapore .  “This is a very high cash-flow business, very similar to
the telecom business 10 years ago, which is why he’s moving in,
he can sense deregulation is coming.”  After meeting with Kan and attending government
discussions, Son announced the plan on May 25. He asked for land
regulations to be modified to make 540,000 hectares of unused
farmland available for solar power stations.  He declined to comment on details of the solar project June
10, saying it’s at an early stage.  The Entrepreneur  Son’s entrepreneurial streak emerged at the  University of
California , Berkeley, where he invented a voice-operated
multilingual translator that he sold to Sharp Corp. for 100
million yen in 1979, about $456,000 at the average  exchange rate 
that year, or $1.2 million today. He also capitalized on a
burgeoning appetite for video games, importing bestselling Space
Invaders machines from Japan and leasing them to cafeterias.  In the late 1980s, he offered a system enabling fixed-line
phone users to choose operators with the cheapest rates,
threatening the dominance of  Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. (9432) ,
which was privatized in 1985. When Son introduced Softbank’s
broadband Internet service in 2001, he grabbed customers from
NTT with free modems and prices that undercut NTT’s by as much
as half.  By 2006, Son had transformed his Internet venture capital
company into a full-fledged phone service firm similar to NTT
via 2 trillion yen acquisitions of Japan Telecom Co. and the
Japanese unit of  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   “Son broke through the telecom industry and has the
financial power and connections to make things happen,” said
Satoshi Nagata, a former president of  Mitsui High-Tec Inc. (6966)  who
now runs VPEC Inc., a power solutions venture.  Raising Capital  Tokyo-based Softbank plans to set up an affiliate that will
use some of the company’s 3 trillion yen annual revenue to build
solar power stations, Son said at a May 26 conference.  One option would be to raise funds to invest about 80
billion yen into building 10 solar farms, each with about 20
megawatts of capacity, said Softbank spokeswoman Makiko Ariyama.  The combined 200 megawatts of power capacity will provide
more than 10 times the 19 megawatts in total produced at eight
photovoltaic power stations run in  Japan  by the regional
utilities as of June 9. Japan produced 988 terawatt hours of
electricity in the year ended March 31.  Prime Minister Kan pledged to generate 20 percent of the
nation’s electricity through renewable sources by the 2020s as
the nation rewrites its  energy policy .  Kan Speech  “We will do everything we can to make renewable energy our
base form of power, overcoming hurdles of technology and cost,”
Kan said in a speech in Paris before the Group of Eight summit
last month. Japan aims to cut the cost of solar power generation
to one-third current levels by 2020 and one-sixth in 2030 and
will install roof-top solar panels at 10 million homes, Kan
said.  A revision of the energy plan means Japan will probably
step up a campaign to encourage the use of solar cells at the
expense of atomic power, Takashi Watanabe, a Tokyo-based analyst
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in an report in April.  “I have a very high expectations, especially for our thin-
film solar cells which had been limited to overseas sales,”
said Mikio Katayama, president of Sharp, Japan’s biggest maker
of solar cells. “Mega-solar plants have been nonexistent here
and it could expand business opportunities.”  Sunny Farms  Solar plants using 20 percent of unused agricultural land
in Japan can have the generation capacity of about 50 gigawatts,
almost matching that of  Tokyo Electric , Son said.  “We can probably invite more companies to invest in our
solar projects once a business model is set up,” said Yukiko Kada, governor of Shiga prefecture, who is one of Son’s
partners.  The Japanese government may break up utilities’ regional
monopolies and separate their power-generation businesses from
distribution operations,  Kyodo News  reported May 31, without
saying where it obtained the information. A panel will begin
discussing the issue from June as the government seeks to reform
the power industry by 2020, Kyodo said.          Any move to separate power distribution from utilities
“should have a national discussion after careful analysis on
the merits and demerits as well as the impact on the stability
of power supply and electricity fees,”  Hiromasa Yonekura ,
chairman of Keidanren, Japan’s biggest business lobby, said on
June 6.  “It’s an extremely important issue that can impact the
international competitiveness of Japanese industries,” he said.  Salary Pledge  The 10 regional utilities handle generation, transmission
and retail of electricity, maintaining virtual monopoly over the
nation’s power market.  The power business was partially liberalized in the late
1990s but few new companies entered the market partly because of
difficulties in competing against the utilities, VPEC’s Nagata
said.  In April, Son pledged to donate 10 billion yen and his
salary until retirement to help support disaster victims. Son
earned 108 million yen and 1.3 billion yen in dividends in the
fiscal year ended March 2010, Softbank said in June.  His 21 percent stake in the company is valued at more than
740 billion yen, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Forbes
magazine ranks him as Japan’s richest man.  “Mr. Son has made quite a stir,” Shiga Governor Kada
said. “We expect the government to make a change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  