-- 
Japan’s Manufacturers Were Pessimistic in Aftermath of Quake

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-06-14T02:57:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/japan-s-manufacturers-were-pessimistic-in-aftermath-of-quake-2-.html
Japan ’s largest manufacturers were
pessimistic about business prospects for a third consecutive
quarter after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that caused
power shortages and disrupted supply chains.  Sentiment among manufacturers with more than 1 billion yen
($12 million) in capital was minus 23.3 points this quarter
compared with minus 3.2 three months ago, a government report
showed in Tokyo today. A negative number means pessimists
outnumber optimists.  Today’s report adds to evidence that the world’s third-
largest economy may contract this quarter before returning to
growth later this year. Toyota Motor Corp. said last week
profits will fall almost a third this year after the nation’s
record earthquake.  “While it can’t be helped that the current state of
business conditions is bad because of the disaster, the outlook
figures showed a recovery in corporate confidence,” said Seiji Adachi, a senior economist at Deutsche Securities Inc. in Tokyo.
Also, “ capital spending  is looking firm,” he said.  Large manufacturers expect the sentiment index to rise to
5.6 points in the July-September period, today’s survey showed.
Companies said they plan to increase spending on plant and
equipment by 4.9 percent this fiscal year, compared to the 0.5
percent drop projected three months ago, according to the data.  Stronger Yen  Machinery orders fell 3.3 percent in April, the first
decline in four months, a sign companies are reluctant to spend
after the March disaster. Exports had their biggest drop since
October 2009, the  unemployment rate  climbed and households cut
spending, evidence that the economy will contract for a third
consecutive quarter. Exporters’ woes have also been compounded
by the stronger yen, which has gained 4 percent against the
dollar in the past six months.  Toyota Motor, Japan’s largest carmaker, last week forecast
a 31 percent drop in profit for the year ending March 31. The
automaker expects domestic production will recover to 90 percent
of normal levels this month, with global production to normalize
by December.  Japan’s economy may shrink at a 2.97 percent annual pace in
the second quarter before returning to growth in the second half
of the year, according to the average forecast of 43 economists
in a survey by the government-affiliated Economic Planning
Association released last week. Gross domestic product shrank at
an annualized 3.5 percent rate in the first quarter.  BOJ Policy  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his policy
board are expected to keep the bank’s 10 trillion yen asset-
buying fund unchanged at a policy meeting today, according to 12
of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Two said the bank
may expand the fund, which has been its main policy tool since
cutting rates near zero in October.  Shirakawa in the past month has said that facilities
damaged by the quake are being restored faster than expected.
Industrial production rose in April, rebounding from a record
plunge in March, and companies said they plan to boost output in
May and June.  Nissan Motor Co.’s Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn 
said last month that the automaker plans to invest 3 billion yen
to reinforce the foundation of its most heavily damaged domestic
factory after the March quake disrupted output.  Today’s report offers a hint of the outcome likely in the
central bank’s Tankan survey, the nation’s most closely watched
gauge of corporate confidence, due July 1. The Tankan measures
the overall level of confidence while today’s report, conducted
jointly by the Cabinet Office and Ministry of Finance, examines
the degree of change in business conditions from the previous
quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  