-- 
Japanese Stocks Gain Most This Month on Government Plan for Tepco Backstop

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-06-14T07:14:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/japanese-stocks-advance-as-utilities-climb-trading-houses-drop-on-oil.html
Japanese stocks rose, sending the
 Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average to its biggest gain this month, after
the government approved a bill to help  Tokyo Electric  Power Co.
compensate victims of the Fukushima nuclear accident and  China ’s
factory output increased more than expected.  Tokyo Electric, owner of the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant, led gains on the Nikkei, surging 25 percent.
Chubu Electric Power Co. rose 13 percent after a report the
utility and Marubeni Corp. may win an order for a gas-fired
power plant in Oman.  Fanuc Corp. (6954) , an industrial robot maker that
gets about 50 percent of its sales in  Asia , rose 1.7 percent.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.1 percent to 9,547.79
at the 3 p.m. close of trading in  Tokyo , extending gains after
Financial Services Minister Shozaburo Jimi said the government
will provide loan guarantees to ensure Tokyo Electric is able
pay reparations following the worst nuclear accident in 25 years.  “The government is making some progress on a plan for
dealing with Tokyo Electric,” said Yoshihiro Ito, chief
strategist at Okasan Online Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Until now
there’s been no positive news on the utility.”  The broader Topix advanced 1.3 percent to 822.86 after
economic reports in China showed demand in  Japan ’s biggest
export market is still driving up prices amid measures to
restrain inflation. China’s consumer prices rose at the fastest
pace in almost three years in May and industrial production
increased 13.3 percent, exceeding a median 13.1 percent forecast.
Investment in fixed assets also quickened, according to
statistics bureau data released in Beijing today.  Fanuc, Komatsu  Fanuc rose 1.7 percent to 12,350.  Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  a maker of
construction equipment that gets about a quarter of its sales in
China, advanced 1.3 percent to 2,319 yen.  Stocks also gained after the  Bank of Japan  unveiled a 500
billion yen ($6.2 billion) loan program to help the country’s
earthquake-hit economy recover. The move is the central bank’s
latest effort to protect the world’s third-largest economy
following the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that damaged Tokyo
Electric’s nuclear plant, disrupted supply chains and left
almost 24,000 people dead or injured.  Central bank governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his policy
board today also kept the benchmark overnight rate unchanged in
a range of between zero percent and 0.1 percent and left
unchanged its 30 trillion yen lending program and 10 trillion
yen asset-buying program.  Recovery Budget  Separately, Japan’s Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said
today the prime minister asked him to compile a new stimulus
budget next month to help prop up the economy. The spending plan
will include payments to local authorities and assistance for
disaster victims with loans, Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  told
lawmakers.  The Topix has fallen 12 percent since March 10, the day
before the earthquake disaster. The slump has driven down the
price of stocks on the gauge to 1.2 times book value, compared
with 2.14 on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks and
1.56 on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
　　　“Some investors are thinking that, at this level, it might
be the right time to buy,” said Hisakazu Amano, who helps
oversee the equivalent of $29 billion at Tokyo-based T&D Asset
Management Co.  Utilities led gains among Japanese stocks. Tokyo Electric,
which has lost about 90 percent of its market value since the
March disaster, gained the most since at least 1974. The utility
climbed by its daily limit of 50 yen, or 25 percent, to 249 yen
after the government said Japan will guarantee loans by banks to
a third-party organization established to ensure the utility can
compensate victims of the nuclear accident.  Tepco, as the utility is known, also got a boost after the
Tokyo Stock Exchange today raised the collateral requirement for
short sales of the shares to 50 percent from 30 percent. The
move discouraged speculators by making the trade more expensive.  Chubu Electric, Japan’s No. 3 utility by revenue, soared 13
percent to 1,307 yen after the Nikkei newspaper reported that
the utility and trading company Marubeni are close to winning an
order to build and operate a power plant in  Oman . The total cost
of the project is $1.5 billion, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 