-- 
JDS Uniphase Snaps 14 Losing Years With Products Ranging From 3-D to Solar

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-06-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/jds-uniphase-rebounds-from-14-years-of-losses-with-new-products.html
JDS Uniphase Corp. (JDSU)  Chief Executive
Officer Thomas Waechter is poised to close the books on the
company’s first annual profit since 1996, the fruit of moves
into products as varied as 3-D glasses and currency pigments.  The last time JDS Uniphase was in the black for a full
year,  Bill Clinton  was finishing up his first term as president,
and Google Inc.’s  Larry Page  and  Sergey Brin  were Stanford
graduate students  working  on a search engine called “BackRub.”
Since then, the company has lost more than $68 billion.  JDS Uniphase, the biggest maker of fiber-optic testing
equipment, has clawed its way back to profitability after
digesting acquisitions and investing in new products. When
Waechter became CEO in 2009, he stepped up research spending,
even though the economy was mired in recession. Innovations
developed during the slump now account for about two-thirds of
revenue in the company’s optical-components business and 45
percent of its communications-test businesses, he said.  “We made some pretty large bets, and that’s paying off for
us now,” Waechter said in an interview.  Now he aims to parlay its broader focus -- and improving
bottom line -- into greater recognition. The company has
expanded beyond its roots in optical components, which are used
to build communications networks. To reflect that, the Milpitas,
California-based company adopted a new slogan last July: “You
know us because you depend on our technology every day.”  Currency Pigments  Its technology is used in the pigments on U.S. dollars,
holograms on debit cards, optical coatings on 3-D movie glasses,
cells in solar panels, and the lasers in motion-sensing video-
game consoles. It also helps ensure the quality of video
delivered over the Internet.  The expansion has helped fuel profit and sales. JDS
Uniphase, better known as JDSU, posted net income of $62.3
million for the nine-month period ended April 2, compared with a
loss of $63.3 million a year earlier. Analysts project profit of
more than $50 million for the fiscal fourth quarter, which ends
July 2.  “They’ve done an excellent job turning the ship,” said
Nathan Johnsen, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in
 Portland ,  Oregon . “Over the last few years, they’ve made a
concerted effort to exit out of the businesses that are lower
margin and less interesting.”  Dot-Com Days  JDSU’s run of losses stemmed in part from its merger of JDS
Fitel Inc. and Uniphase Corp. in 1999, which created the biggest
maker of fiber-optic components. At the time, a flood of
Internet startups was increasing the volume of data traffic.
Companies such as Lucent Technologies Inc. also were buying
parts from JDSU to boost network capacity. The stock peaked on
March 6, 2000, closing at a record $1,172.25.  By the following July, the bubble had burst, and the
company wrote down the value of the acquisition. On July 26,
2001, JDSU reported a full-year loss of $50.6 billion, then the
largest in U.S. history.  To get back on track, the company cut thousands of jobs,
while making more acquisitions in an attempt to boost sales and
profit. By fiscal 2008, the company narrowed its loss to $21.7
million, the smallest amount since the merger. Then the deepest
recession since the Great Depression pushed the loss up to
$909.5 million the following year.  Waechter, who took over in January 2009, has continued to
trim expenses while increasing spending on research and
development. The company boosted R&D 4.7 percent to $174.9
million in 2010, after a decline of almost 10 percent the
previous year.  Share Gains  The improving growth prospects sent the stock up 126
percent in 2009, 76 percent in 2010, and 15 percent so far this
year. Of the analysts who follow JDSU, nine recommend buying the
stock, while five others have a hold rating, according to
Bloomberg data. There are no sell recommendations.  One trend benefiting the company: Wireless carriers are
spending billions to create fourth-generation networks with a
standard called long-term evolution, or LTE. JDSU sells
equipment, software and services used by wireless service
providers to test their LTE systems before they come online, and
after to see if they’re working properly.  For Waechter, the company’s most exciting business is its
smallest:  advanced optical technologies . That division makes
film coatings, authentication products and gesture-recognition
technology. The products go into cars, pharmaceuticals, video-
game consoles, movie theaters, sportswear and currency.  ‘Black Diamond’  General Motors Co.’s Cadillac announced in February it
would a release a “black diamond” version of its CTS-V line,
working with JDSU on the paint to give the vehicles a chrome
effect. The  National Football League ’s Jacksonville Jaguars
collaborated with the company to create new  helmets  with a
glitter and mirror-like look, introduced in 2009.  The U.S. Treasury Department also uses JDSU’s pigments on
the new $100 bill, one of more than 125 currencies worldwide to
do so. Drug and luxury-goods makers, as well as banks, use the
company’s holograms as an anti-counterfeit measure.  Dolby
Laboratories Inc. (DLB)  relied on JDSU optical coatings in 3-D glasses
for the release of “Avatar.”  Even so, the division’s growth has been slow. Waechter said
during a May 4 earnings call that the company is looking for
ways to accelerate the unit’s 5 percent to 6 percent annual
growth rate, both by internal developments and acquisitions.  A failure to boost the expansion could be a concern over
the long term, said Joel Achramowicz, an analyst at Blaylock
Robert Van LLC in Oakland,  California .  “It’s a very high-margin business,” said Achramowicz, who
has a neutral rating on the shares. “The problem is it hasn’t
been growing.”  Still, JDSU’s more diverse product lines have helped even
out its results, Achramowicz said.  “It helps to basically reassure investors will get a
little more consistency,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  