-- 
JPMorgan Ousts Mortgage Chief Lowman

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-06-14T16:36:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/jpmorgan-ousts-mortgage-chief-david-lowman-after-lapses-over-foreclosures.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-
largest  U.S. bank , ousted mortgage chief David Lowman after it
overcharged active-duty military personnel on loans and
improperly foreclosed on other borrowers.  “Dave Lowman and I have decided he will leave the firm,”
Frank Bisignano, the head of home-lending, said today in an
internal employee memo obtained by Bloomberg News.  JPMorgan has been taking steps this year to repair its
mortgage unit, which posted at least $3.3 billion in losses
during the first quarter. Lowman, 54, who ran home-lending since
leaving  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in 2006, was directed in February to
start reporting to Chief Administrative Officer Bisignano, 51.
The New York-based bank then hired Cindy Armine, Citigroup’s
chief compliance officer, last month to increase oversight as
chief control officer of home-lending.  “We thank Dave for his five years of service to our
firm,” Bisignano said in the memo. “He worked here during
extraordinary times and has said he will take some much needed
time off.”  A message left at Lowman’s office wasn’t
immediately returned.  U.S. banks are dealing with the backlash from a bust in
housing as mortgage losses and related litigation suppress
earnings.  Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities fell 5.1 percent in the
first quarter, the largest decline since the first quarter of
2009, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index.  High Losses  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 55, said JPMorgan’s
record $5.6 billion in profit during the first quarter was
tempered by “extraordinarily high losses we still are bearing
on mortgage-related issues.”  “Unfortunately, these losses will continue for a while,”
Dimon said in a statement on April 13 when the bank reported
results. JPMorgan’s performance has been hampered by poor
performing mortgage portfolios acquired when it bought
Washington Mutual Inc. and Bear Stearns Cos. in 2008.  In April, JPMorgan agreed to pay $56 million and to reduce
 mortgage rates  for all deployed soldiers to settle claims that
it overcharged military personnel on their mortgages and seized
homes of 27 active-duty military personnel who were protected by
the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act.  Dimon said the military foreclosures were the worst mistake
the bank has ever made.  “We deeply apologize to the military, the veterans, anyone
who’s ever served this country and we’re trying to go way
beyond” what is needed to correct the errors, he said at the
company’s May 17 annual shareholder meeting. “We’re sorry.”  Hiring Veterans  The bank also has committed to hiring 100,000 veterans
during the next 10 years, reduced the interest rate for active-
duty soldiers to 4 percent from 6 percent for one year, agreed
to forgive loan balances for anyone wrongfully foreclosed on and
created a special loan-modification program for veterans.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest U.S. lender, and Morgan
Stanley’s Saxon Mortgage Services Inc. unit also paid millions
of dollars to settle similar lawsuits with military personnel.
Bank of America agreed last month to pay $20 million to settle a
lawsuit alleging improper foreclosure on about 160 members of
the military between January 2006 and May 2009, the U.S.  Justice
Department  said in a May 26 statement. New York-based Morgan
Stanley also agreed to pay $2.35 million to resolve a lawsuit
alleging it improperly foreclosed on 17 service members between
January 2006 to June 2009.  ‘Not Well-Liked’  “Bankers are not well-liked. It’s the negative headlines,
banks foreclosing on the military while they’re fighting a
battle overseas,” said  Paul Miller , a former examiner with the
 Federal Reserve  Bank of Philadelphia and analyst with FBR
Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia. “It’s killing them.”  JPMorgan is among the five largest U.S. mortgage servicers
in negotiations with the Justice Department and state attorneys
general to end regulators’ probes into the use of faulty
documents in foreclosure proceedings.  Armine was hired, in part, to oversee a separate consent
agreement that JPMorgan and 13 other banks reached with the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal
Reserve in April over foreclosure practices.  The Justice Department is suing Deutsche Bank AG for more
than $1 billion, and has said it may go after other lenders for
filing false claims for federal  mortgage insurance  on faulty
loans.  The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development is
also weighing a similar lawsuit against Bank of America after a
federal investigator said the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
lender “significantly hindered” the government’s own probe
into the bank’s claims on $5.7 billion in loans insured by the
 Federal Housing Administration , according to a court filing
dated June 1.  HUD Reviewing Claims  HUD is examining 40,219 FHA claims, about $5 billion of
which came from the bank’s 2008 acquisition of Countrywide
Financial Corp., submitted by Bank of America in fiscal years
2009 and 2010, which ended Sept. 30.  Bank of America fully cooperated with the HUD inspector
general’s review and “any suggestion otherwise is both
inaccurate and inconsistent with how we work with all
regulators,” the company’s spokesman,  Dan Frahm , said
yesterday.  JPMorgan rose 22 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $41.89 at 11:36
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange Composite trading. Bank of
America fell 5 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $10.92.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  