-- 
JPMorgan Splits Its Retail Unit Duties Among Executives as Scharf Moves On

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-06-15T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/jpmorgan-chase-reassigns-retail-banking-chief-scharf-s-duties.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  split retail
banking head Charles Scharf’s duties among three executives and
ousted its mortgage chief in a management shuffle at the second-
largest  U.S. bank .  The unit, which has more than tripled to 5,300 branches in
nine years under Scharf, is grappling with soured mortgages in
the wake of the U.S. housing slump. It generated a $208 million
loss in the first quarter on revenue of $6.3 billion. Scharf,
46, will become a partner at JPMorgan’s private-equity arm, the
bank said yesterday.  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 55, said the changes
were part of a “normal maturation” of management at the New
York-based bank. “You can’t have a company with an operating
committee of 15 people and think it’s not going to be changed,”
he said in an interview.  Scharf lost his position on the operating committee. His
duties were divvied up among commercial banking head Todd Maclin, who will oversee the bank’s branch network, small
business lending and marketing; card services CEO  Gordon Smith ,
who will run student and auto lending; and Chief Operating
Officer Frank Bisignano, who remains in charge of home lending,
a role he took in February, JPMorgan said in a statement.  “I’ve had a bunch of big operating jobs in my career. I’ve
been CFO of big divisions of companies and a public company.
I’ve run 120,000 people,” Scharf, said in an interview
yesterday. “I’ve never done something like this.” He will
report to Dick Cashin, who heads JPMorgan’s private-equity arm,
One Equity Partners.  Scharf is a “friend and trusted adviser,” Dimon said.
“That will be true until the day I die.”  Branch Network  Maclin, 55, said he plans to build on Scharf’s work in
expanding JPMorgan’s branch network by 350 to 400 new locations
a year with emphasis on California and  Florida .  “There isn’t a place where we lack the scale to complete
our growth organically,” he said yesterday in an interview.  Maclin “is well-liked by the investment community and his
commercial bank’s results have outperformed peers during the
downturn,”  Jason Goldberg , a senior analyst at  Barclays
Capital , said in a research note to clients last night.  The bank officially announced Heidi Miller’s departure in
2012 after working with Dimon for nearly two decades. Miller,
58, who most recently headed international operations, said she
plans to take some time off before planning her next move.  “I’ve worked for 35 years and have really never taken time
to step back and want to give myself that privilege,” she said
yesterday in an interview. “I’m not retiring. There will be a
next stage, I just don’t know what.”  International Finance  Investment bank CEO Jes Staley, 54, will take on Miller’s
international duties.  “Given his background in international finance, given the
size of the business he runs globally today, he’s the right
person to orchestrate that across the lines of business,”
Miller said.  The company announced in a separate e-mail to employees
yesterday that it ousted mortgage chief David Lowman after the
bank overcharged active-duty military personnel on loans and
improperly foreclosed on other borrowers.  “Dave Lowman and I have decided he will leave the firm,”
Bisignano, 51, said in the memo.  JPMorgan has been taking steps this year to repair its
mortgage unit, which posted at least $3.3 billion in losses
during the first quarter. Lowman, 54, who ran home lending since
leaving Citigroup Inc. in 2006, was directed in February to
start reporting to Chief Administrative Officer Bisignano. It
hired Cindy Armine, Citigroup’s chief compliance officer, last
month as chief control officer of home lending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 