-- 
JPMorgan Multiplies as Bank of America Shrinks in Deposit Grab

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-06-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/jpmorgan-branches-multiply-as-bank-of-america-shrinks-in-grab-for-deposits.html
Charlsey Smedley, a retired
schoolteacher in Orlando, Florida, started moving her checking
account last month to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  from Bank America
Corp., where she has been a customer for more than 35 years.  Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan’s chief executive officer, had people
like Smedley in mind when he announced plans in February to open
as many as 2,000 branches, more than half of them in Florida and
California, expanding the New York-based bank’s network by
almost 40 percent. He’s targeting states dominated by Bank of
America, the biggest U.S. bank by deposits, and  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) , which has the largest branch network.  The strategy runs counter to Bank of America’s plan to
close 10 percent of its offices as analysts question whether the
industry needs a bank on every corner. Doubts about the expense
of branches have arisen as customers cut back on borrowing and
mobile and online banking take hold.  “Two thousand is a mind-bending number, even for a bank
the size of JPMorgan Chase,” said Bob Meara, a senior analyst
with Boston-based consulting firm Celent. “Branch building on a
large scale seems tough to justify.”  Dimon, 55, is hoping to lure more customers like Smedley,
who said she was fed up with extra costs, as local and national
competitors retreat.  ‘More Fees’  “The service at Bank of America was okay, but they just
kept adding more and more fees,” Smedley, 74, said in an
interview outside the sleek, gray JPMorgan branch that opened
last July on Town Center Boulevard.  It’s one of 18 JPMorgan outlets in  Orlando  and a five-
minute walk from where Smedley used to bank. The $150 JPMorgan
offered to put in her account helped seal the deal, she said.  Dimon’s plan is based on the theory that having more
branches enables the bank to attract deposits, which provide a
cheap source of funding in a post-crisis era, as well as to sell
investment products to customers and offer banking services to
businesses, analysts said. The strategy could add $2 billion a
year in profit, according to company calculations.  It also allows JPMorgan to expand its brand in markets such
as Florida and California where it gained a foothold by buying
Washington Mutual Inc., said Ryan McInerney, CEO of the firm’s
consumer bank and a member of its executive committee.  “We don’t have nearly the density or branch presence we
think we need to serve our current customers or acquire new
customers in those markets,” McInerney said in an interview.
“We view it as a very big opportunity.”  California , Florida  Analysts said the opportunity may be overstated. Banks with
large branch networks like JPMorgan may gain little benefit from
deposits since they have few options for the funds amid a
decline in borrowing and historically low yields on fixed-income
securities, they said.  “I would love to know what advantage they see in their
retail-banking model,” said Nancy Bush, a contributing editor
at  SNL Financial , a bank-research firm in Charlottesville,
 Virginia . “It’s good, but is it wildly superior?”  With consumers trying to pay off debt and avoid new loans,
“the macro trend would be for the entire financial sector to
contract, and that means fewer branches, not more,” Bush said.  JPMorgan’s five-year strategy calls for 525 to 700 new
outlets in California, 375 to 500 in  Florida , and an additional
800 elsewhere, according to an investor presentation. California
and Florida are among the top five U.S. states by deposits.  The bank had 5,268 retail branches at the end of 2010,
making it the third-largest network in the U.S. behind San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo with 6,314 and Bank of America with
5,856, according to year-end filings.  BofA Closings  Bank of America is closing unprofitable branches, Joseph Price, head of the lender’s consumer and card-banking business,
said at a conference for investors in March. The Charlotte,
North Carolina-based company shut 200 branches in the last five
quarters through March, CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  said in April.  Wells Fargo, still digesting its 2008 purchase of Wachovia
Corp., has chosen to add resources rather than hundreds of new
outlets. The bank, which opened 47 branches last year, placed
about 5,000 more bankers into former Wachovia offices, CEO  John Stumpf  said June 3. Forty-six percent of U.S. households are
within two miles of a Wells Fargo branch or automated-teller
machine, according to  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for the bank.  “We continuously adjust our store network, and as a result
we add stores in some markets and reduce them in others to make
sure we have the right number to help us serve our customers,”
Eshet said.  Dimon Turnaround  Bank of America already has a fully developed branch
network in Florida and California, said Walter Elcock, the
executive responsible for branches. The bank has plans to add
bankers to about 1,500 branches to sell more investment,
mortgage and small-business products, he said.  “Our strategy is much more focused on strengthening
relationships with existing customers,” Elcock said. “It’s not
about customer acquisition.”  Dimon may have the advantage and experience to make his
plan work, said  Jason Goldberg , senior analyst at Barclays
Capital Inc. in  New York .  From 2000 to 2004, Dimon was CEO of Bank One Corp., where
he staged a turnaround that included opening more branches and
overhauling compensation. He required branches to stay open
longer after realizing competitors were closing an average of
two hours later, according to “Last Man Standing: The Ascent of
 Jamie Dimon  and JPMorgan Chase,” by Duff McDonald. Results at
the Chicago-based lender swung from a $511 million loss in 2000
to a $3.5 billion profit by 2003.  WaMu Branches  When JPMorgan merged with Bank One in 2004 and Dimon was
named president and chief operating officer, he shuttered
lagging businesses and started monthly management reviews in
local branches. The bank, now the largest in the U.S. by market
valuation, was one of the few to navigate the credit crisis
without a quarterly loss.  That period included the September 2008 purchase of
Seattle-based Washington Mutual, the largest bank to fail in
U.S. history. JPMorgan bought the thrift for $1.9 billion,
acquiring 2,200 branches in 12 states. Three hundred were closed
in the first six months and another 100 by the end of the first
year in markets where the two banks overlapped, according to a
person familiar with the consolidation.  Dimon estimated at an investor conference June 2 that on
average each branch makes about $1 million a year in profit,
meaning that the new outlets may contribute $2 billion to annual
profit once they’ve been open for several years.  Absence of Profit  Over the last nine years, JPMorgan has opened 1,000
branches and expects them to contribute $1 billion by 2018,
according to a February presentation from Charles Scharf, head
of the retail business.  In the early years, opening and operating expenses outrun
costs, with the 117 branches that opened in 2009 reducing 2010
pretax earnings by an average of $600,000 an outlet, or $70
million, Scharf said.  It cost between $2 billion and $3 billion to build the
1,000 branches, Deutsche Bank AG’s Matt O’Connor estimated in a
May 19 report, and JPMorgan added 6,200 salespeople between 2006
and 2010, according to Scharf’s presentation.  The new branches “aren’t going to contribute a lot to
profit over the next several years,” Scharf said in February.  Last year, JPMorgan’s retail division reported $31.8
billion in revenue, 30 percent of the bank’s total, and $2.53
billion in profit, or 15 percent of the total, according to the
year-end filing. That compares with revenue of $14.8 billion and
net income of $3.43 billion in 2005, or 27 percent and 40
percent, respectively.  Strip Malls  Branches typically need about $40 million of deposits to be
profitable,  Paul Miller , an analyst with FBR Capital Markets in
Arlington, Virginia, said in an interview. About 15 percent of
bank branches in the U.S. hold less than $15 million in
deposits, said Brian Foran, an analyst with Nomura Securities
International Inc. in New York.  Nationwide, JPMorgan ranks second in deposits with $996
billion, behind Bank of America’s $1.02 trillion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. JPMorgan ranks fourth in California,
with $61 billion in deposits, and sixth in Florida, with $10.5
billion. It lags behind Bank of America, which has $222 billion
in California and $74.8 billion in Florida, and Wells Fargo,
which has $162.1 billion in California and $66.6 billion in
Florida. JPMorgan holds the top spot in New York and  Texas .  JPMorgan’s new branches may bring an added $90 billion in
deposits, Miller wrote in a Feb. 16 report. To do so, they’ll
have to draw customers from competitors with well-placed
branches, attractive promotions and good customer service,
analysts said. New outlets must be located in high-traffic
areas, not hidden in strip malls, as many of WaMu’s branches
were, Miller said in a phone interview.  Soaking Up Deposits  Dimon’s wager is that JPMorgan can soak up deposits from
shuttered community banks or beat-up regional lenders forced to
trim their footprint, Nomura’s Foran said.  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  and  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , the third-
and fourth-biggest banks by deposits in Florida, are pulling
back, and Bank of America may close branches in the state, he
said. On top of that, 34 banks failed in Florida since the end
of 2009, and 15 have been shut by regulators in California as of
May 6, leaving a void for JPMorgan to fill.  “They see blood in the water,” Foran said.  The largest banks aren’t the only ones targeting those
states. Competitors include BankUnited Inc., the Miami Lakes,
Florida-based lender brought back from collapse in 2009 by John Kanas, and OneWest Bank, the successor to IndyMac Bancorp after
the California-based lender failed in 2008.  Michael McCoy, a spokesman for Atlanta-based SunTrust, said
his bank has 500 branches in Florida and is “very committed”
to the market. Tim Deighton, a spokesman for Birmingham,
Alabama-based Regions, which has about 400 branches in Florida,
said the state “remains a core market for us.”  Online and Mobile  Some customers are shunning branches. A 2010 survey by the
Washington-based American Bankers Association found that 36
percent of respondents preferred banking online compared with 25
percent who said they would rather bank in person. Even so, a
March 2011 research paper by Elif Nilay Yilmaz, a doctoral
candidate at Boston University, used  Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.  data to show that a 1 percent increase in the number of
branches raised a bank’s market share by 0.72 percent.  “The banks have figured out they need to be able to
deliver their products through multiple channels, and branches
are one of those that will be here to stay,” said  Gerard Cassidy , a banking analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in  Portland ,
Maine. “Banking has yet to find the killer app to make
branching obsolete.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 