-- 
Kan Says He Plans to Resign After Passage of Japan’s Quake, Energy Bills

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-06-14T10:07:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/kan-says-he-plans-to-resign-after-passage-of-japan-s-quake-energy-bills.html
Japan ’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ,
who is under pressure to specify when he’ll fulfill a promise to
resign, said he wants to stay until winning passage of a
renewable energy bill and a second disaster spending plan.  “I will fulfill my responsibility for the urgently needed
second supplementary budget, the bill on renewable energy and
other bills now before parliament,” Kan said at the upper house
of parliament today. “Then I will pass my responsibility onto
the next generation.”  Kan sparked a leadership vacuum in his  Democratic Party  of
Japan earlier this month when he promised to leave office in
order to win support to defeat a no-confidence vote against him.
Since then he hasn’t given a target date for resigning and his
predecessor  Yukio Hatoyama  accused him of going back on an
agreement to step down by June.  Japan’s second spending plan will include items such as
payments to local authorities and assistance for disaster
victims with loans, Kan told lawmakers today.  “We will include urgent measures in the next supplementary
budget to be compiled in July if possible,” Kan said. “I’ve
won approval from Cabinet ministers on this direction.”  Kan’s Cabinet today also approved a bill to set up a public
entity to aid Tokyo Electric Power Co. as it compensates victims
of the disaster at the Dai-Ichi nuclear plant in Fukushima. The
plan, which must be approved by parliament, is partially
intended to keep  Tokyo Electric  from passing on costs to
consumers, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said.  Shares Climb  Tokyo Electric surged as much as 25 percent to 249 yen
after the Cabinet approval and news that the Tokyo stock
exchange clamped down on short-selling of the shares. The
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.1 percent today to
close at 9547.79.  Kan said on June 2 his responsibility was to stay until a
cold shutdown at the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant, which Tokyo Electric Power Co. said it hopes to achieve
by January. On June 9, Kan told lawmakers he must stay until
progress is made on temporary housing and removing debris, which
the government hopes to achieve by the end of August.  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said today the
nation’s next extra budget probably won’t require bond sales.
Noda told reporters Kan asked him to compile the budget in July.  Support Falls  Kan’s public support fell to 22 percent in an Asahi
newspaper survey published today, down from 28 percent earlier
this month. The survey of 1,980 people taken June 11-12 didn’t
provide a margin of error.  DPJ Secretary-General Katsuya Okada is a potential
successor to Kan, as are Edano and former foreign minister  Seiji Maehara . All were among a group voters cited as preferable
candidates in a Nikkei newspaper survey published May 30.  Before Japan’s largest recorded earthquake on March 11, Kan
had failed to win support for higher taxes needed to reduce the
country’s deficit. His leadership during the crisis at the Dai-
Ichi nuclear plant has been widely criticized, with 63 percent
of participants in the Asahi poll saying they disapproved of his
handling of the disaster.  More than three months after the earthquake and tsunami
disabled power generators at Dai-Ichi, workers are struggling to
contain what has become the world’s worst nuclear disaster since
1986.  Tokyo Electric plans to start decontaminating millions of
liters of water poured over melted reactors and by the end of
the year it expects to have separated 2,000 cubic meters of
highly radioactive sludge, Teruaki Kobayashi, a nuclear facility
manager at Tepco said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  