-- 
Kasich Makes Mavericks ‘Honorary Ohioans’ After Defeating LeBron in Finals

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-06-14T15:38:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/kasich-makes-mavericks-honorary-ohioans-after-beating-lebron.html
The  Dallas  Mavericks are Ohioans
today, courtesy of Governor  John Kasich  and  LeBron James .  Kasich issued a  resolution  making the Mavericks’
organization, friends, family and fans honorary Ohioans after
Dallas defeated James and the  Miami Heat  for the National
Basketball Association championship on June 12.  The resolution, embossed with a gold seal and laden with
schadenfreude, promised the Texas team “all privileges and
honors” of Ohio citizenship. It made no mention of James, the
Heat star who failed to deliver a championship. The Akron native
and former  Cleveland  Cavalier infuriated fans last year when he
announced on a live television special that would “take my
talents to South Beach” and join the Heat.  “Whereas, the Dallas Mavericks displayed the loyalty,
integrity and teamwork essential to victory before the entire
country, affirming that these admirable traits are as crucial as
talent and athleticism,” Kasich said in his resolution
yesterday. “The proud city of Cleveland and the entire state of
Ohio share in the excitement of  Dallas Mavericks  fans
everywhere.”  Kasich also praised  Dirk Nowitzki , the Mavericks’ All-Star
who chose to remain with the team and kept “his talents in
Dallas, thus remaining loyal to the team, city and fans for whom
he played his entire career.”  James took his own shot at those who cheered for his
failure, saying at a post-game press conference that “at the
end of the day, they have to wake up tomorrow and have the same
life that they had before they woke up today. They have the same
personal problems they had today. I’m going to continue to live
the way I want to live.”  Some Ohio fans have adopted his nemeses. GVArt + Design, a
Cleveland-area company, is selling “Mavaliers” T-shirts, co-
owner George Vlosich said in a telephone interview.  The shirts bear a take-off on the Cavaliers’ motto of “All
for one, one for all.”  “All for one, won for all,” they say.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  