-- 
KDB Financial Bid for Korea’s Woori Stake Ruled Out by Banking Regulator

-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-06-14T05:47:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/kdb-financial-bid-for-korea-s-woori-stake-ruled-out-by-banking-regulator.html
South Korea ’s financial regulator
won’t consider any bid by state-run KDB Financial Group Inc. for
a stake in Woori Finance Holdings Co., the country’s biggest
financial company by assets.  The Financial Services Commission cited a lack of public
support for KDB bidding on the government’s 57 percent Woori
Finance stake, the watchdog said in a report to parliament today.
KDB Financial Chairman Kang Man Soo said he will comply with the
government position.  “We’ve come to a decision that it isn’t desirable for KDB
Financial to participate in the bidding,” FSC Chairman Kim Seok Dong said at a National Assembly session in  Seoul , where Kang
was also attending. “We still believe getting  Woori Finance 
privatized is a very important task that would help the
financial industry leap forward.”  The government last month revived the stake sale after
suspending an attempt to privatize the company in December amid
a lack of buyer interest. Final bids will now be considered in
September as part of President  Lee Myung Bak ’s push to ease
control over financial companies and sell assets to help boost
global competitiveness.  Woori Finance shares rose 1.1 percent to 13,300 won as of
2:03 p.m. in Seoul trading, valuing the government stake at
about 6.2 trillion won ($5.7 billion). The benchmark Kospi index
gained 1.6 percent.  Revised Sale Attempt  Under the revised Woori plan, announced on May 17, the
government plans to accept letters of intent by June 29 for a
minimum 30 percent stake in Woori Finance. The government is
also trying to privatize Seoul-based KDB Financial and aims to
sell an unspecified number of shares by May 2014.  Woori Finance was created in 2001 as a holding company for
banks that the government rescued following the Asian financial
crisis in 1997 and 1998. The government spent 12.8 trillion won
to aid Woori Finance and has recouped 5.3 trillion won so far
through block sales of shares.  South Korea will “guarantee equal opportunities for all
investors at home and abroad” in bidding for Woori Finance, Kim
said today. The government holds the Woori stake through the
state-run Korea Deposit Insurance Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  