-- 
Kellogg Gets Second FDA Warning on Listeria in 2 Years

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-06-14T20:29:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/kellogg-gets-second-fda-warning-on-listeria-in-2-years-1-.html
A  Kellogg Co. (K)  cookie plant in
Augusta,  Georgia , was found to have a “persistent strain” of
listeria during a February inspection, including on food-contact
surfaces, according to a warning letter from U.S. regulators.  The Food and Drug Administration  letter , dated June 7, was
sent less than two years after a Kellogg Eggo waffle plant in
the same state was shut for similar reasons.  The inspection found flies and pools of water, the FDA
said. The letter from District Director John Gridley didn’t say
that any products were tainted with listeria, yet said they were
“adulterated” and “may have become contaminated with filth.”
The Augusta plant makes Keebler and Famous Amos cookies, and is
one of five cookie bakeries Kellogg operates in  North America .  “While the FDA did not identify specific concerns with the
food, we take this situation very seriously,” Kris Charles, a
spokeswoman for  Battle Creek , Michigan-based Kellogg, said in an
e-mail. “We have undertaken a number of aggressive actions to
address their concerns including comprehensive cleaning and
extensive testing.”  Kellogg’s response didn’t include dates for taking action
at the plant, the FDA said. The regulator gave Kellogg 15 days
to outline specific remedies to avoid injunction or product
seizure.  Eggo Production  Kellogg’s cookies are baked at a temperature high enough to
kill any listeria present, according to Robert Gravani, a food
science professor at  Cornell University  in Ithaca, New York. The
lack of an FDA product recall suggests that listeria was not
found in the cookies, he said. FDA spokeswoman Tamara Ward
declined to comment on a potential recall.  Listeria is a bacterium found in prepared foods and soil
that can cause a serious infection in humans called listeriosis.
It is particularly harmful to pregnant women, the young, the
elderly, and people with weak immune systems, according to the
FDA’s  website .  Kellogg, the largest U.S. maker of  breakfast cereals , fell
45 cents to $54.96 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares have gained 7.6 percent this year.  The FDA in January 2010 ordered Kellogg to improve
sanitation controls at the different Georgia plant after Eggo
buttermilk waffles were found contaminated with listeria
bacteria. That, along with flooding and equipment changes at
another waffle factory in 2009, slowed production for months and
caused Eggo’s market share to drop.  Kellogg in June 2010 voluntarily recalled about 28 million
boxes of cereal including Froot Loops and Honey Smacks, citing
unusual taste and odor coming from the liner of packages. The
recalled boxes were made at an Omaha, Nebraska, facility. North
American cereal sales dropped 5 percent in 2010, partly because
of the recall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in  New York  at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Walsh at 
 swalsh@bloomberg.net  