-- 
Kenya May Require Extra Rate Meeting, Standard Bank Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-06-14T10:02:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/kenya-may-require-extra-rate-meeting-standard-bank-says-1-.html
Kenya  may need to call an
extraordinary monetary policy committee meeting to raise
 interest rates  and halt a decline in the currency, the shilling,
 Standard Bank Plc  said.  “Given that the next MPC meeting does not take place until
July, we anticipate there may be a need to call an extraordinary
meeting to curb the runaway currency,” Matthew Pearson, the
London-based head of African equity products, wrote in a note to
clients e-mailed today. “If the Central Bank of Kenya fails to
implement a significant hike in rates, we do not foresee the
current rally abating.”  The shilling has weakened 9.8 percent against the dollar
this year, making it the fourth-worst performer worldwide after
Suriname’s dollar, Maldives’ rufiyaa and the Iranian rial,
according to Bloomberg data. The shilling strengthened 0.5
percent to 89.47 per dollar by 12:27 p.m. in Nairobi after
reaching the weakest level in 17 years against the U.S. currency
yesterday.  Kenyan Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  projected last week
that economic growth will ease to 5.3 percent this year, from
5.6 percent in 2010, as higher oil and gas prices damp  consumer
spending  in East Africa’s richest economy.  The  International Monetary Fund  and  World Bank  have reduced
their forecasts for Kenyan growth this year to between 5 percent
and 5.4 percent, and 4.8 percent, respectively.  IMF, World Bank  The revisions came after the Central Bank of Kenya switched
its priority to cooling inflation, from spurring economic
growth. The bank’s monetary policy committee, chaired by
Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, has increased the benchmark interest
rate by a total of half a percentage point to 6.25 percent, over
its last two meetings in March and May.  The committee unexpectedly cut the rate in January, its
eighth reduction since December 2008, to a record low of 5.75
percent, even as the inflation rate surpassed the government’s 5
percent target the same month. Inflation has accelerated for
seven consecutive months, climbing to 13 percent in May.  The  central bank’s  MPC normally meets every two months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Ana Monteiro at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 