-- 
Kenya May Raise Interest Rate to Steady Shilling, Renaissance Capital Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-06-14T14:31:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/kenya-may-raise-interest-rate-to-steady-shilling-renaissance-capital-says.html
Kenya’s central bank may raise its
benchmark rate as much as 1.25 percentage points by the end of
the year to curb inflation and support the shilling, which hit
the weakest in 17 years yesterday,  Renaissance Capital  said.  An increase to the key lending rate by as much as half a
percentage point is “looming,” Yvonne Mhango, a Johannesburg-
based economist with Renaissance, wrote in an e-mailed note to
clients today. The  central bank  typically meets every two months
to review monetary policy. Its next meeting is scheduled for
July.  “The rhetoric of the Central Bank of Kenya has become more
aggressive in the face of accelerating inflation and a weakening
shilling,” Mhango said. “This follows the reluctant tightening
of monetary policy in the first half of 2011.”  Kenya’s central bank has raised the key lending rate at its
last two meetings in March and May, each time by a quarter of a
percentage point, to 6.25 percent to cool inflation. It also
increased the  cash reserve ratio  by the same margin to 4.75
percent to curb currency supply in the economy.  That followed an unexpected reduction to a record low of
5.75 percent in January, which is the same month that inflation
rate surpassed the government’s 5 percent target. Price growth
has  accelerated  for the past seven months to a 25-month high in
May of 13 percent, as food and fuel prices surged.  Currency Performance  Kenya’s shilling reached 90 per dollar yesterday, its
weakest level since March 1994, and will average 87 per dollar
this year as rising yields attract foreign investors, softening
the currency’s depreciation, Mhango said.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy has plunged
9.7 percent this year, the fourth-worst performer after
Suriname’s dollar, Maldives’ rufiyaa and the Iranian rial.  “Underperforming rains in  Kenya  imply that this net food
importer will have to import an even larger share of the food
that is domestically consumed in 2011,” Mhango wrote. “This
will place added pressure on the large current-account
deficit,” and force the shilling to weaken over the next 18
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  