-- 
Kuwaiti Lawmakers Submit Motion Against Prime Minister

-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f   a n d   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-06-14T16:24:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/kuwaiti-lawmakers-submit-motion-against-prime-minister-2-.html
Kuwaiti lawmakers submitted a motion
of non-cooperation against Prime Minister Sheikh Nasser Al- Mohammed Al-Sabah, a move that could lead to his ouster.  Parliament Speaker Jassim Al-Kharafi said legislators will
vote on the proposal on June 23. The motion needs 25 supporters
among the 49 elected members of parliament to pass. If approved,
Emir Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah must either remove
Sheikh Nasser, his nephew, from office or dissolve parliament
and call fresh elections, according to  Kuwait ’s constitution.  The premier was questioned today in a closed session over
the nation’s thawing of diplomatic relations with Iran, which
lawmakers allege risks undermining ties with other Gulf states.  Waleed al-Tabtabaei, Mohammed al-Mutairi and Mubarak al-
Waalan, lawmakers from Kuwait’s Sunni Muslim majority, asked to
quiz the premier, saying the government is “harming Kuwait’s
national security and ties with GCC states through its biased
foreign affairs with the Iranian regime,” according to the
request. The Gulf Cooperation Council comprises Kuwait,  Saudi
Arabia , the  United Arab Emirates , Oman, Qatar and Bahrain.  Tensions between the GCC and Shiite Muslim-led Iran have
escalated since mainly Shiite protests started in Bahrain in
February.  Bahrain ’s Sunni-led monarch has accused some Shiite
activists of having links with Iran.  Alleged Network  Iranian Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  visited Kuwait
last month, announcing that the two countries would exchange
ambassadors again after a dispute over an alleged spy network
operating in Kuwait led to both sides expelling each other’s
diplomats. The lawmakers say the visit angered the Kuwaiti
nation and “was arranged despite the exceptional and bad
conditions” of the GCC states’ relations with Iran.  Shiite-Sunni tensions have flared in Kuwait in recent
months, partly due to the sectarian unrest in Bahrain. Kuwaiti
Shiites rallied against sending ground troops to the other Gulf
Arab state, while Sunnis have demonstrated in favor of a
deployment. Kuwait later sent a naval force to Bahrain.  Adding to tensions, a Kuwaiti court in March sentenced to
death two Iranians and one Kuwaiti for spying for  Iran . Iran has
denied any link to the alleged spy network.  The request for today’s questioning of the prime minister
was the second since May 10. Kuwait’s parliament on May 17 voted
in favor of a government decision to postpone the questioning by
legislators over issues including the government’s alleged
failure to implement a 30.8 billion-dinar ($112 billion)
development plan.  Non-Cooperation Votes  Sheikh Nasser has survived two non-cooperation votes in
parliament since his appointment five years ago by the emir. The
premier’s seventh Cabinet since 2006 was announced on May 8. Two
days later, lawmakers filed their request to question Sheikh
Nasser, only minutes after he had called for more cooperation
between the executive and legislative branches.  Their disputes have led to repeated government resignations
and stalled investment plans. The 50-seat elected National
Assembly has been dissolved five times since the country
introduced parliamentary democracy in 1962, most recently in
March 2009.  The former government resigned on March 31 following
requests by legislators to question three ministers from the
ruling family over several alleged violations.  Kuwait is the fifth-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries and pumped 2.425 million barrels
of oil a day in May, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net ;
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net  