-- 
N.Z. Retail Sales Rise For First Time in 3 Quarters, Matching Expectations

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-06-15T00:12:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/n-z-retail-sales-rise-for-first-time-in-3-quarters-matching-expectations.html
New Zealand  retail sales increased
for the first time in three quarters, adding to signs the
economy is recovering from the deadliest earthquake in 80 years.  Sales, adjusted for inflation, rose 0.9 percent in the
first quarter compared with the three months ended Dec. 31 when
they fell 0.4 percent,  Statistics New Zealand  said in Wellington
today. The increase matched the median estimate of 12 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Rising  consumer spending  and employment add to evidence the
nation’s economy grew modestly in the first quarter, buoyed by
record-low interest rates and a surge in commodity prices.
Continued growth in domestic demand this year may prompt central
bank Governor Alan Bollard to raise  interest rates  as early as
the fourth quarter, according to eight of 16 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  “Consumer spending made a welcome return after going
missing in action late last year,” said  Mark Smith , an
economist at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “Recent
indicators suggest that the labor market recovery is continuing
to pick up steam and this will boost household incomes. Buoyant
primary sector incomes are another pillar of support.”  New Zealand’s dollar was little changed after the report.
It bought 81.84 U.S. cents as of 11:45 a.m. in Wellington from
81.88 cents immediately before the data.  Today’s report showed sales rose at eight of 15 store
categories surveyed in the first quarter. Core sales, which
exclude vehicle dealers and fuel outlets, gained 0.7 percent.  Vehicles, Furniture  First-quarter sales were led higher by a 6.3 percent rise
in vehicle and parts sales, today’s report showed.  Fuel sales fell 3.9 percent while supermarket and grocery
store purchases declined 0.4 percent.  Sales before adjustment for price movements rose 2 percent,
the biggest gain in four years, the statistics agency said. Core
sales before adjustment for price changes rose 0.9 percent.  Christchurch, New Zealand’s second-biggest city, was hit by
a magnitude 6.3 earthquake in February that killed more than 180
people, the most since a temblor in Napier in 1931. Roads and
homes were wrecked, and the central business district closed to
allow demolition of more than 400 buildings.  Two more quakes struck the city on June 13, stopping
recovery and damaging more buildings. The temblors also meant
the statistics agency was unable to provide a full commentary on
today’s report, it said.  Christchurch Retailers  Response rates and other information from Christchurch
retailers confirm that the series remains “robust” after the
February earthquake, the agency said.  Sales before price adjustments fell 2.2 percent in
Christchurch and surrounding districts, led by accommodation and
food and beverage services, the agency said. Liquor and hardware
sales in the region were higher.  Warehouse Group Ltd. (WHS) , the nation’s biggest discount
retailer, said on May 13 that sales rose 1.4 percent in the
three months ended May 1 from a year ago. Increased demand for
household consumables, home appliances, bedding, storage and
other essentials was evident at its Christchurch stores, the
Auckland-based retailer said.  New Zealand’s employers added 30,000 workers in the first
quarter, the biggest increase since the second quarter of 2008,
according to a government report on May 5. Prices of New Zealand
exports rose 6.3 percent in the three months through March, led
by demand for milk and lumber, buoying farm incomes.  Bollard kept the official cash rate unchanged at a record-
low 2.5 percent on June 9. The central bank estimated gross
domestic product grew 0.3 percent in the first quarter after 0.2
percent growth in the final three months of 2010. First-quarter
construction slumped 6.3 percent and export volumes fell 0.3
percent, according to government figures released in the past
two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  