-- 
NEAS to Close European Power Fund as Investors Prefer Accounts

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-06-14T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/neas-to-close-european-power-fund-as-investors-prefer-accounts.html
NEAS Energy Funds Plc will close the
21-month old NEAS Power Fund on June 17 as investors preferred
managed accounts and after it lost 7 percent this year.  “The rationale for this decision stems from the fact that
the advisers believe that many institutional investors now
prefer to invest in this asset class via managed accounts rather
than fund structures,” the board of directors for NEAS Energy
Funds including Chairman Niels Jensen said in a letter to
investors dated yesterday and obtained by Bloomberg News.  The NEAS Power Fund, which buys and sells power, carbon,
oil, natural gas and coal, opened in October 2009 and advanced 9
percent last year. Assets in the fund remained little changed at
about $12 million since the start as investors instead chose
managed accounts, Nick Rees, a partner at Absolute Return
Partners LLP, which markets the fund, said yesterday by phone
from  London . Assets in the fund and accounts operated by its
adviser NE Capital Management totaled $50 million as of this
month, he said.  The 2011 loss “was a factor, but not the main factor,”
for the closure, Rees said. The NEAS Power Fund rose 1.2 percent
in April and 2.3 percent in May, recovering from a first-quarter
decline of 10 percent.  “Profits were made from the favorable movements in the
German power market, in the volatile crude oil market and by
taking a long position in  carbon emissions ,” according to the
fund’s May letter to investors obtained by Bloomberg News.  German power for next year, a European benchmark, traded at
its highest level in two years on May 31, climbing to 60.90
euros ($88.18) a megawatt-hour after  Europe ’s biggest economy
hastened its exit from nuclear energy.  Germany  is the largest
nation to abandon atomic power after the March disaster at
 Japan ’s Fukushima plant stoked concerns about nuclear safety.  Hedge funds  are largely unregulated investment vehicles
whose managers can trade any asset, aim to make money regardless
of whether markets rise or fall and participate substantially in
profit from money invested.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  