-- 
New York Boosts Sale 14%, Cuts Yield as Investors Seek Safety: Muni Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-07-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/new-york-sells-409-million-as-s-p-cites-fiscal-strengthening-muni-credit.html
New York  increased the size of a
personal income tax-backed offer to $866 million, the largest
and highest credit quality offer this week, and lowered yields
as investors sought safety from a deteriorating federal outlook
and instability in Europe.  “This is just a market that is very credit-quality
conscious,” said John Hallacy, the head of municipal research
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “They’re willing to accept a
somewhat lower yield if they know they’re not going to have to
lose sleep over what their holdings are.”  New York’s securities are benefiting from a flight to top-
rated municipals, which tend to be less volatile in reacting to
U.S. and international events, Hallacy said. Investors are
avoiding bonds that may be affected by federal budget cuts or
turmoil in  Europe , where three European Union nations are now
rated below investment grade.  The borrowing for the state university system was boosted
14 percent and yields cut by as much as 10 basis points from the
initial placements with individuals for debt maturing in 2026
and 2031, the New York State Dormitory Authority said. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  “We had solid demand on the loan throughout the curve from
a wide range of investors,” Dormitory Authority President Paul T. Williams said in an e-mail. “We saw very good interest from
retail which helped to set the stage for a very successful
institutional pricing.”  Bonds Rally  Top-rated tax-exempt bonds have rallied along with
Treasuries in the past week, with yields on general obligations
falling about 11 basis points since July 5, according to a
Bloomberg Valuation index. Ten-year treasuries have fallen 24
basis points in the same period.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress
yesterday the central bank was prepared to take additional
action, including buying more  government bonds , if the economy
appears to be in danger of stalling. Moody’s Investors Service
subsequently put the U.S. under review for a credit rating
downgrade as talks to raise the government’s $14.3 trillion debt
limit reached an impasse.  Ten-year municipal debt yields are at their highest
relative to Treasuries since mid April, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  New York Favored  Investors are favoring New York debt as the state corrals
its spending and its economy improves -- personal income grew
4.1 percent last year, the second-best rate among U.S. states,
according to a May 31 report by  Fitch Ratings .  “New York’s program specifically is strong,” said Alan Schankel, director of fixed-income research at the financial
services firm Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia,
referring to the tax-backed bonds. “You get a first slice at
income taxes, and I think it’s a very strong program and very
strong coverage.”  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and the Legislature approved an on-
time budget for the fiscal year beginning April 1 that reduced
total spending 2.6 percent, the first drop since at least 1995.
The budget cut school aid by $1.3 billion, and capped Medicaid,
the federal-state health-insurance program for the poor, at
$15.3 billion.  The premium investors demand to hold an AAA rated personal
income-tax bond issued in 2010 and due February 2020 over an
index of top-rated general-obligation bonds of the same maturity
has narrowed by 15 basis points since March 10, before Cuomo
signed the budget, according to Bloomberg data. The bonds
yielded 2.8 percent on July 11, the most recent trade.  New York’s bonds look secure because investors understand
that people will pay their taxes, Hallacy said.  PIT Fatigue  “Last year there was some fatigue among muni buyers
because there were so many PIT issues,” Matt Fabian, a managing
director at Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market
Advisors, said in a telephone interview.  “This year, where there’s a lot less supply, the dynamic
has reversed so the issuer is in a better position.”  Following is a description of a pending sale of U.S.
municipal debt:  WASHINGTON STATE, the eleventh-largest issuer of municipal
bonds last year, will offer a series of $742 million in tax-
exempt and taxable debt beginning as soon as tomorrow for
capital projects including university and transportation
renovation. The bonds carry the second-highest investment grade
from the three major credit rating firms. A portion of the deal
will price competitively while JPMorgan Chase & Co. will
underwrite the remaining bonds. (Added July 14)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  