-- 
NFL’s Labor Talks Progress Puts Deal in Reach to Avoid Game Cancellations

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-06-14T19:28:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/nfl-negotiations-progress-yield-hope-of-avoiding-delay-in-regular-season.html
Meetings between the  National
Football League  and its players have renewed optimism that the
sides can end a three-month-old shutdown of the U.S.’s most-
popular sport in time to avoid missing part of the season.  Owners of the league’s 32 teams are scheduled to meet in
 Chicago  on June 21, with clubs being told to prepare to stay
late or overnight, according to NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello . That
comes after three weeks of labor talks have produced progress
that may prevent a delay of the regular season, according to two
people with knowledge of the situation who asked not to be
identified because of the sensitivity of negotiations and a
media blackout imposed by a U.S. judge.  The approach of the season -- training camps typically
start in late July -- probably is speeding efforts to reach a
deal on how to divide about $9 billion in revenue, said Bob
Bruno, who teaches labor and employment relations at the
 University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign .  “They’re getting there,” Bruno said in a telephone
interview. “I wouldn’t put a time frame on it but I would
expect that there’s going to be football and going to be
training camp and going to be something positive for both sides
to talk about.”  Aiello declined to comment on the progress of talks. George
Atallah, spokesman for the  NFL Players Association , said on the
social networking site Twitter that “We’re focusing all our
efforts on a long-term settlement, agreement and resolution.”  The NFL in March locked out players, who sued the league
for antitrust violations and wage-fixing in federal court, led
by Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and
 Drew Brees .  Framework for Owners  Andrew Brandt, who negotiated player contracts for the
 Green Bay Packers  between 1999 and 2008, said the meetings of
the past few weeks “will hopefully give the owners a
framework” to discuss at the meeting in Chicago.  “It adds hope,” Brandt, who teaches at the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s  Wharton School  and edits
 nationalfootballpost.com , said in an e-mail. “They are no
longer discussing motions, stays, injunctions, etc. -- although
those are still in play -- but the topics that need to be
hammered out to achieve labor peace.”  In addition to the owner-player meetings, NFL Commissioner
Roger Goodell and players association Executive Director
 DeMaurice Smith  held a  two-hour dinner meeting  in New York on
June 9, the New York Post said, citing an unidentified witness.  Money Deal  LaDainian Tomlinson, a running back for the  New York Jets ,
said he’s optimistic that the season will take place on
schedule.  “Money runs the world and there is no way they will lose
out on $9 billion,” he said in an interview. “They’ll find a
way to get a deal done and we’re going to play football this
year.”  Paul Haagen, who teaches contracts and sports law at  Duke
University , said the sides’ attempts to get leverage in court
are unlikely to provide either with a decisive advantage before
the season’s Sept. 8 start date.  “The only thing that holds me back a bit is there were
some of those noises early on,” he said in a telephone
interview. “Whether this is going anywhere, I don’t know.”  Bruno said he expects players and owners to agree to set
aside for investment less than the $1 billion from player pay
initially proposed by management, with guarantees that players
will share in the returns. He also said he thinks a deal may
include expanding the regular season by two games, reducing the
number of preseason games, increasing roster sizes and improving
health care and safety.  “There’s negotiating room there,” he said. “If the two
sides are talking and not lobbing hand grenades at each other,
it seems to me that there’s room to get a deal done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 