-- 
Nokia Wins Apple Patent-License Deal Cash, Settles Lawsuits

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-06-14T15:55:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/nokia-apple-payments-to-nokia-settle-all-litigation.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  won an almost two-year
patent dispute with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , in a settlement that awards a
one-time payment and royalties to the Finnish handset maker.  Nokia rose as much as 4.1 percent in Helsinki trading. The
agreement will bolster the Devices & Services unit’s second-
quarter profitability, Espoo, Finland-based Nokia said in a
statement today. The details of the contract, under which Apple
will pay an undisclosed sum and royalties for the term of the
agreement, are confidential, Nokia said.  The two mobile-phone makers have been in litigation since
October 2009, when Nokia filed a lawsuit accusing Cupertino,
California-based Apple of infringing patents. Nokia also
demanded royalties on the millions of Apple iPhones sold since
the device’s introduction in 2007. Nokia said in March it has 46
patents asserted against Apple in civil lawsuits and complaints
lodged with the U.S. International Trade Commission.  “Nokia emerges as a clear winner from the fight,” Sami Sarkamies, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Helsinki, said in a
note to clients today. The initial payment will likely be in the
range of hundreds of millions of euros related to about 200
million Apple devices delivered to date, Sarkamies said.  Nokia climbed as much as 17.6 cents to 4.47 euros and
traded 2.1 percent higher at 4.39 euros as of 1:14 p.m. in
Helsinki. The stock has lost more than three quarters of its
value since Apple introduced the iPhone in June 2007.  Cross License  The agreement doesn’t provide Nokia with a full agreement
to cross-license patents with Apple. In court filings, Apple had
claimed that Nokia filed the suits to strong-arm it into
granting Nokia access to patented technology for features that
differentiate the iPhone from other smartphones.  Apple said in a statement today that Nokia will have a
license to some technology, “but not the majority of the
innovations that make the iPhone unique.” Apple gets a license
to some of Nokia’s patents, including ones that were deemed
essential to industry standards on mobile phones.  The settlement ends litigation that was pending before the
ITC, which has the power to block imports of products that
infringe U.S. patents, and in federal courts in Delaware and
 Wisconsin . It also resolves suits in  Germany , the U.K. and the
Netherlands.  Freed Resources  “This frees up resources for both Apple and Nokia,” said
Florian Mueller, a Munich-based consultant and intellectual
property activist. “Other companies whom Nokia will ask to pay
royalties will have to think very hard whether to pay or pick a
fight.”  Nokia Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop is readying a
line of phones based on Microsoft Corp.’s Windows Phone 7
operating system to replace the Symbian line, which is losing
market share to the iPhone and handsets based on Google Inc.’s
Android system.  “We’re glad to put this behind us and get back to focusing
on our respective businesses,” said Steve Dowling, an Apple
spokesman.  Nokia wouldn’t disclose the amount of the payments. Royalty
agreements are generally secret, saidMartin Nilsson, a
Stockholm-based analyst with Handelsbanken.  Smartphone Growth  “Everybody pays license fees, that’s how this industry has
worked for 25 years, and now the setup with Apple isn’t any
different to what they have with the others,” Nilsson said.
“It’s in line with expectations that they resolved it and that
Nokia became a net recipient.”  Nokia’s first claims covered technology for wireless data,
speech coding, security and encryption. Subsequent claims
asserted rights to wiping gestures on a touchscreen and on-
device application stores, both of which Nokia said it filed to
patent more than 10 years before the iPhone launch.  The global market for smartphones is expected to grow 50
percent to $138 billion this year, Stuart Jeffrey and other
Nomura analysts said in a report yesterday.  Mobile-phone makers generally cross-license patent
portfolios with extra payments covering the differences in
value. Apple countersued and both companies pursued parallel
claims with the ITC.  “We’ve been talking to them since 2007, discussions have
continued throughout the litigation and our goal has always been
to stop Apple using our patents without paying for them,” Nokia
spokesman Mark Durrant said by phone.  Nokia Licensees  Nokia has about 40 licensees for the standard-essential
patent portfolio, including Apple, Durrant said. All actions
between the two companies including Apple’s suits against Nokia
and conflicts at the ITC have been dropped, he said.  “Our understanding is that the dispute was never really
about Nokia’s essential patents,” such as those relating to GSM
and 3G wireless technologies, Sarkamies said. “Rather they were
used to arm-wrestle a solution on non-essential patents such as
touchscreen user interface innovations.”  Apple has patent fights with smartphone companies,
primarily handset makers that make phones running Google’s
Android system, including Samsung Electronics Co., Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. and HTC Corp.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net . 