-- 
Noyer Says Any Greek Default Would Mean Financing Whole Economy

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-06-14T10:46:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/noyer-says-any-greek-default-would-mean-financing-whole-economy.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member  Christian Noyer  said any attempt by euro-area
governments to adjust Greek debt that resulted in a default
would mean financing the nation’s entire economy.  “Our position is extremely simple: if there is a solution
that avoids a risk of default, it seems suitable,” Noyer told
journalists in Paris today. “If you can’t find it, it’s better
to avoid touching the debt. If despite everything you try to
reduce the debt and you provoke a risk of default, you’ll have
to finance the entire Greek economy.”  The comments are the latest outlining the ECB’s opposition
to any effort to restructure Greek debt or extend the maturities
of its bonds that isn’t entirely voluntary. ECB President Jean- Claude Trichet said yesterday that governments should “avoid
whatever would trigger a  credit event .”  Germany ,  Europe ’s
largest economy, has said creditors should pay some of the cost
of supporting  Greece .  European finance chiefs gather later today in Brussels to
hammer out a Greek rescue to prevent the euro area’s first
sovereign default after the country was slapped with the world’s
lowest credit rating by  Standard & Poor’s .  Yields on 10-year Greek bonds climbed to a euro-era record
of 17.12 percent today. Finance ministers are seeking to narrow
differences on how investors share the cost of easing Greece’s
debt burden and to wrap up a new financing plan at a leaders’
summit on June 23-24, a year after Greece received a first
bailout.  Collateral  Noyer today repeated Trichet’s threat that the ECB would
stop accepting Greek  government bonds  as collateral in its
refinancing operations to banks if the country defaults.  “We’ve gone as far as possible in our interpretation of
the quality of debt,” he said. “If we have debt in default, it
will be impossible to consider that we have quality debt.
Therefore it will become impossible to accept this debt as
collateral.”  To believe that restructuring or rescheduling can lead to a
relaxation of budget plans is a “dangerous illusion,” he said.
“Such operations do not in themselves provide any new
financing. They always lead, at least initially, to a further
drop in confidence and lower capital inflows, which increases
the adjustment effort needed.”  Noyer also rejected suggestions that the ECB’s stance was
related to concerns about the ability of European banks to
absorb losses on Greek debt, or even about the ECB taking losses
on its own Greek holdings.  The position “has nothing to do with the situation of
French or German or European banks, and nothing to do with the
fact that the euro system holds Greek debt,” he said. “That’s
rubbish. Our one and only concern is the financing of the  Greek
economy .”  “We must absolutely avoid anything that could result in a
default,” Noyer said. “It would be an extraordinarily serious
risk for the financing of the Greek economy and would be one for
a certain number of euro-zone regions after that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  