-- 
House Republicans Attack NRC Chief Jaczko for Closing Yucca Site

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-06-14T20:59:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/nrc-chief-jaczko-illegally-stopped-yucca-plans-barton-says-1-.html
U.S.  House Republicans  criticized
Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman  Gregory Jaczko ’s decision
to stop work on a nuclear waste site in  Nevada  last year, with
one lawmaker saying the regulator acted illegally.  “He violated the law” by failing to inform the commission
of his plan,  Joe Barton , a Texas Republican, said today at a
hearing in Washington, contradicting testimony by the agency’s
inspector general, Hubert T. Bell. “That is clear, layman
common sense,” Barton said.  Bell reported last week that Jaczko “was not forthcoming”
with colleagues about his intent to wind down the Yucca Mountain
project in Nevada, about 100 miles (161 kilometers) northwest of
 Las Vegas . Bell said today that Jaczko didn’t break the law on
the waste-site decision.  Jaczko’s leadership has come under increased criticism from
lawmakers and regulators since the Japan nuclear crisis, an
accident that has underscored the vulnerability of storing waste
near reactors.  President  Barack Obama  in 2009 decided to cancel plans to
build a repository at Yucca Mountain after opposition, led by
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada, blocked the
project. The administration was thwarted in a 2010 bid to
withdraw the license application when a NRC licensing board
rejected the plan. The commission hasn’t issued a final
decision.  Republicans have said the administration’s decision to end
the Yucca project wasn’t based on a scientific evaluation.  “Chairman Jaczko has let politics trump science here,”
Representative Joseph Pitts, a Pennsylvania Republican, said at
today’s hearing.  ‘Political From Beginning’  Selecting Yucca Mountain to store radioactive waste was
“political from the very beginning” because lawmakers didn’t
want nuclear waste in their states, said Representative  Edward
Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat. Scientific studies have found
a risk that nuclear waste at the Yucca Mountain site will
contaminate groundwater, he said.  The U.S. spent $14.5 billion, including $9.5 billion from
industry fees, on a permanent waste repository that hasn’t been
built.  Bell said Jaczko, a former science adviser to Reid,
controls information given to commissioners, which led some of
them to be “uncertain” about whether they had been adequately
informed on policy issues. He gave “varying amounts of
information” about his plans to commissioners, and failed to
give any information to a colleague, Bell said in his report.  “Its certainly -- is not -- is not an upfront way to do
business,” Bell said today, responding to questions about
misleading the commissioners from Representative Gene Greene, a
Texas Democrat.  Credibility At Stake  The inspector general found that Jaczko used a 2011 budget
memorandum to begin the close-out of the agency’s Yucca Mountain
license review. It didn’t say Jaczko broke the law.  “This impacts the credibility of the NRC on many issues,”
said Representative Tim Murphy, a Pennsylvania Republican.  In addition to weighing safety upgrades for U.S. reactors
after the  Japan  accident in March, the NRC is poised to issue
the first construction licenses for new U.S. reactors in more
than 30 years.  Japan’s nuclear disaster after a March 11 earthquake and
tsunami revived debate about Obama’s decision on Yucca Mountain,
and added urgency to the mission of the 15-member commission
Obama directed to evaluate options for 65,000 metric tons of
radioactive fuel rods being held at 76 locations in 35 states. A
draft report from the waste commission is due July 29.  House Republicans have proposed allocating $35 million in
the 2012 budget to revive the Yucca Mountain project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  