-- 
Obama Hydrogen Fuel Failure Conceded by Chu Paring Budget: Cars

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-06-14T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/obama-hydrogen-fuel-failure-conceded-by-chu-paring-budget-cars.html
Energy Secretary Steven Chu, whose
mandate includes getting more fuel-efficient cars on U.S. roads,
is disregarding advisers in his own department and seeking to
cut almost half the federal funding for hydrogen-powered autos.  A  Nobel Prize-winning physicist  who also researched
advanced biofuels, Chu says hydrogen fuel-cell technology
developed by carmakers such as  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Daimler AG (DAI) 
and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  isn’t yet practical. Auto companies and
members of a government panel say he’s wrong and that they will
be ready to market such cars by 2015.  “Secretary Chu has firmly set his mind against hydrogen as
a passenger-car fuel,”  Mary Nichols , chairwoman of California’s
Air Resources Board, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Government. Her agency’s regulations affect more drivers than
any other state’s. “Frankly, his explanations don’t make sense
to me. They are not based on the facts as we know them.”  The Obama administration’s fading support for hydrogen is a
challenge for carmakers who say advanced gasoline engines,
batteries, biofuels and fuel cells are all needed to curb U.S.
oil consumption and carbon emissions. Chu’s proposed budget,
which cuts funds for hydrogen stations, creates roadblocks for
retail sales of fuel-cell cars, the companies say.  Chu is “hostile to hydrogen,”  Robert Walker , a former
member of the Energy Department’s Hydrogen and Fuel Cell
Technical Advisory Committee, said in an interview. Walker,
executive chairman of Wexler & Walker Public Policy Associates,
a Washington lobbying firm, and a former Republican House member
from Pennsylvania, resigned from the panel in April over the
budget proposal.  ‘More Likely’ Options  Chu, 63, has advocated battery cars and biofuels as options
more likely to meet U.S. energy and environmental goals in the
near term. Discounting hydrogen means the U.S. risks falling
behind Japan,  Germany  and  South Korea  in the technology because
those nations are moving ahead with plans for extensive fuel-
station networks to serve buyers of the cars.  “The secretary believes that we should fund fuel-cell
research and development as part of a diverse energy portfolio,
including both stationary and mobile applications -- and we
are,” said  Stephanie Mueller , an Energy Department spokeswoman.  Chu, who said in 2009 that the Obama administration was
“going to be moving away from hydrogen-fuel cells for
vehicles,” declined a request for an interview.  $4 a Gallon  Consumer interest in alternative-fuel vehicles has grown
this year as gasoline neared $4 a gallon. U.S. drivers bought
about 275,000 gasoline-electric hybrids last year, led by
Toyota’s Prius, and GM and Nissan Motor Co. are boosting sales
of rechargeable Volt and Leaf vehicles.  “Fuel-cell technology is viable and ready for the mass
market,” Chris Hostetter, Toyota’s U.S. group vice president
for advanced planning, said in a May 10 interview at the opening
of a hydrogen filling station in Torrance,  California .
“Building an extensive hydrogen refueling infrastructure is the
critical next step in bringing these products to market.”  Automotive fuel cells are layers of platinum-coated plastic
film sandwiched between metal plates that create electricity
from the chemical reaction of hydrogen and oxygen. Vehicles use
the same type of electric motors and controls as battery-only
models, and neither emits tailpipe pollutants.  $10 Billion Bet  Toyota plans to sell a fuel-cell car in the U.S. and other
markets by 2015 or sooner, Hostetter said. Japan’s largest
automaker has said the model may sell for about $50,000, without
elaborating.  Honda Motor Co. and Daimler offer a limited number of fuel-
cell vehicles for lease in the U.S. Honda reported 17 leases
last year, none yet this year. Daimler reports four leases
through May this year. Automakers estimated the cost of fuel-
cell vehicles was about $1 million each as recently as five
years ago.  Globally, automakers have poured an estimated $10 billion
into fuel-cell vehicle research, saying hydrogen provides range
and rapid fueling that is comparable to gasoline and superior to
plug-in electrics.  The Energy Department cut hydrogen funding to make way for
biofuels, battery vehicles and increased fuel-efficiency
standards, Steven Chalk, deputy assistant secretary for
renewable energy, said in an interview.  ‘Folks Are Frustrated’  “If folks are frustrated with that position, I understand
that,” Chalk said. In a time of budget constraints, “we’re
trying to focus on the things that are going to make the impact
in the time frame that matters, which is in the next five
years.”  The $100 million the department is requesting for hydrogen,
down from $177 million provided in the 2010 fiscal year, “is
still quite an investment, and we think we can be competitive,”
he said.  President  George W. Bush  announced a $720 million research
and development effort for hydrogen-powered cars in his 2003
State of the Union address. Congress in 2005 created the
advisory committee that Walker ran, which tracks progress by
fuel-cell manufacturers, automakers and energy companies pushing
to commercialize hydrogen technology.  During his two years on the job, Chu hasn’t met with the
committee, according to Walker and Chalk.  Chu told the Senate Appropriations energy and water
development subcommittee on May 18 that hydrogen tanks for fuel-
cell vehicles are inadequate and that the technology contributes
to carbon emissions, linked to  climate change , because natural
gas is the main source of industrial hydrogen.  Carbon Emissions  Toyota, Honda, GM, Daimler and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  all say
the hydrogen tanks on fuel-cell vehicles they’re testing in
California and elsewhere provide the same range of 250 miles
(402 kilometers) to 400 miles as gasoline autos.  Vehicles powered by hydrogen made from natural gas produce
at least 50 percent fewer carbon emissions than the cleanest
gasoline autos, according to Energy Department estimates.  Natural gas “will have to be significantly more abundant
and less costly,” to make hydrogen affordable, Chu said at the
Senate hearing.  Natural  gas prices  have fallen 66 percent since July 3,
2008, when it reached $13.577 per million British thermal units.
The price for July delivery declined to $4.646 per million BTUs
yesterday on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  “Why is it that the secretary can’t look at the data, look
at the facts, and arrive at the same conclusion that his own
advisory committee has reached?” Robert Shaw, who is chairman
of the 18-member advisory panel, said in an interview. Shaw is
president of Arete Corp., a venture capital-fund manager based
in Center Harbor,  New Hampshire .  Taxpayer Funds  “It’s just not a good use of taxpayer funds,” Joseph Romm, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, said
in an interview. Romm’s duties as an Energy Department official
during the Clinton administration included supervising the
hydrogen program.  Without an adequate refueling infrastructure, few consumers
are going to buy hydrogen vehicles, he said. Without knowing
whether the autos will be a success, there’s little incentive to
build stations.  The U.S. has  58 hydrogen fueling  stations, according to the
Energy Department.  Germany,  Japan   In 2009, Germany announced plans for 1,000 hydrogen
stations. In January, Japan said it will have 100 hydrogen
stations in place by 2015, and South Korea may have 50 by the
end of next year and more than 100 by the end of the decade.  Electric vehicles  can plug directly into wall outlets. They
have the highest “bang for the buck,” Romm said.  Making hydrogen from natural gas costs $3 to $4 per
kilogram, or the equivalent of a gallon of gasoline, Shaw said
in a March letter to Chu, and fuel-cell vehicles are twice as
efficient as gasoline autos.  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD) , the second-biggest U.S.
industrial-gas producer, estimates it can sell hydrogen from
natural gas for about $5 per kilogram, Ed Kiczek, the company’s
senior business development manager, said in an interview.  The company, based in Allentown,  Pennsylvania , plans to
install hydrogen fuel pumps at 10 or more Southern California
gasoline stations in the next two years, he said.  California expects automakers to sell at least 53,000
hydrogen vehicles in the state to comply with emissions rules in
2015 through 2017, Nichols, head of the state air board, said,
citing her agency’s surveys of automakers. Those saying hydrogen
vehicles won’t be ready haven’t been keeping pace with advances
made by automakers, she said.  “The conventional view is always a few years out of date,
unfortunately,” Nichols said. “There’s also just a wrong
premise that these different fuels have to compete with other,
and one has to be a winner. We need all of them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  