-- 
Obama Wants Puerto Rico to Decide Statehood or Independence

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-06-14T16:31:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/obama-wants-puerto-rico-to-decide-statehood-or-independence-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said he wants
to let Puerto Ricans make their own decision on whether to stay
a commonwealth, seek statehood or become independent.  Fulfilling a 2008 campaign promise to return to the island
as president, Obama flew today to  San Juan  and pledged to
“include Puerto Rico, not just on my itinerary, but also in my
vision of where our country needs to go.”  Obama’s trip, the first official visit by a U.S. president
in almost 50 years, is focusing on economic development and the
island’s political status, spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters
on Air Force One.  The president has previously said Puerto Ricans should
decide whether they want independence, statehood or to remain a
U.S. commonwealth.  “I am firmly committed to the principle that the question
of political status is a matter of self-determination for the
people of  Puerto Rico ,” Obama wrote in March in a statement
about a White House task force report on relations between the
federal government and the island.  In remarks from an airport hangar, the president said the
report provided a “meaningful way forward” on how to let
residents determine their political future. He said investments
in education, broadband access, boosting tourism, clean energy
and health care that apply to the U.S. mainland also apply to
the territory.  Economic Future  “We’re giving Puerto Ricans the tools they need to build
their own economic future, and this is how it should be,” Obama
said.  The task force proposed a two-stage referendum in which
Puerto Ricans would first vote on whether to remain part of the
U.S. or become independent. Depending on the outcome, a second
vote would be held on whether to stay a commonwealth, seek
statehood, or decide on a form on independent status.  The  task force  recommended that the president, Congress and
the governor of Puerto Rico decide the issue “by the end of
2012 or soon thereafter.”  Obama planned a visit with Republican Governor Luis Fortuño
and a campaign fundraiser in Puerto Rico before returning to
Washington tonight.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  