-- 
Obama Courts Hispanic Voters With First Visit to Puerto Rico Since Kennedy

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-06-14T17:53:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/obama-courts-hispanic-voters-in-swing-states-with-puerto-rico-visit.html
President  Barack Obama  made the
first official presidential stop in Puerto Rico in a half-
century today with a message aimed more at an audience on the
U.S. mainland.  “When I came here to campaign, I promised that I would
return as president of the  United States ,” Obama said at an
airport ceremony in San Juan. “I promised to include Puerto
Rico not just on my itinerary, but also in my vision of where
our country needs to go. And I am proud to say that we’ve kept
that promise, too.”  Obama’s one-day visit comes as he is gearing up for a 2012
re-election campaign in which Hispanic turnout may help decide
who carries potential swing states such as Florida,
 Pennsylvania ,  Virginia ,  North Carolina ,  Nevada ,  New Mexico  and
 Colorado , all of which he won in 2008.  “It’s almost a coming-out party on the growing importance
of Puerto Ricans and the Puerto Rican population in the United
States,” said Dario Moreno, professor of political science at
Florida International University in Miami. “I think the visit
will certainly help Obama in Florida.”  The last official visit to Puerto Rico by a sitting
president was in December 1961 by then-President John F. Kennedy
against the backdrop of the  Cold War  and the rise of  Fidel Castro  in Cuba.  Economic Stewardship  With the U.S. recovery still unsteady and a jobless rate
forecast by the administration to be an average of 8.6 percent
in 2012, the Republican candidates vying for their party’s
nomination are making Obama’s stewardship of the economy a main
theme of their campaigns. Obama is girding for a close election
contest, and Hispanic voters may provide crucial support in
winning the electoral votes of states that are narrowly divided.  Obama arrived in  Puerto Rico  from Florida, where he was the
featured speaker at three Democratic fundraisers last night in
Miami. Obama won Florida in 2008 by a margin of three percentage
points. For 2012, the state’s growing population will make it an
even bigger prize; it now has 29 of the 270 Electoral College
votes needed to claim the White House, up from 27 in 2008.  Hispanic Backing  Hispanic voters nationally favored Obama over Republican
 John McCain , 67 percent to 31 percent, in 2008, according to an
analysis of exit polls by the  Pew Hispanic Center  in Washington.
In Florida, where Hispanic voters backed incumbent Republican
President  George W. Bush  in 2004, Obama won 57 percent of the
vote.  Puerto Ricans comprise about 5 percent of  Florida  voters
and one-third of Hispanic voters there, the second-largest group
of Hispanic voters in the state behind Cuban-Americans,
according to Moreno.  Obama campaigned in Puerto Rico during the Democratic
nominating contest in 2008 and promised that he would come back
as president. The island’s 3.7 million residents are U.S.
citizens who can serve in the military and vote in party
presidential primaries. While Puerto Ricans who reside on the
island can’t vote in the general election, those of Puerto Rican
descent living in the 50 states or the  District of Columbia  are
eligible to cast ballots for president.  Highlighting Challenges  Puerto Rico’s governor, Republican Luis Fortuno, said in a
telephone interview yesterday that Obama’s visit is a chance to
remind Americans that Puerto Rico has been a territory since
1898 and to focus Obama’s attention on some of its biggest
challenges.  Puerto Rico’s unemployment rate in April was 16.4 percent,
higher than any state. In addition, Fortuno said increased U.S.-
Mexico border enforcement has shifted drug traffickers toward
Puerto Rico.  Also on the agenda is Puerto Rico’s status. An Obama task
force has recommended that Puerto Ricans vote by the end of next
year on whether to remain a U.S. territory or become
independent, and whether to pursue statehood or another option.  Obama said today that “when the people of Puerto Rico make
a clear decision, my administration will stand by you.”
On economic issues, the president told Puerto Ricans that
“we’ve been trying to make sure that every family on the island
can find work and make a living and provide for their
children.”  Fortuno said he recognizes that Florida politics also are
in play; more than 800,000 Puerto Ricans are living in the state
and are concentrated in central Florida, an area he described as
“up for grabs.”  “That area determines who carries Florida,” he said.  Both Parties  Fortuno said he expects Obama’s Republican challengers to
court Puerto Ricans as well.  “It’s the kind of move I would presume Democrats and
Republicans will continue to make,” he said. “The Hispanic
community is larger every day and plays a larger role in
determining the final outcome in presidential elections.  “We are 50 million strong in the nation,” Fortuno said.
“Showing up is half of the game in politics.”  Immigration activists, including Democratic Representative
Luis Gutierrez of  Illinois , are using Obama’s visit to renew
calls for expanded immigration rights for undocumented people,
including foreign-born residents living in Puerto Rico.
Gutierrez said in a statement yesterday that Obama “obviously
sees his visit to Puerto Rico as part of a larger Latino voter
outreach strategy for 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  