-- 
Oi to Complete Stock Plan Within a Year, Funcef Says

-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 
2011-06-14T20:29:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/oi-to-complete-stock-plan-within-a-year-funcef-says-1-.html
Telemar Participacoes SA, the
holding company of  Brazil ’s biggest fixed-line telephone
operator, will probably complete a plan to simplify its share
structure within a year, said  Funcef , one of its controllers.  “Minority shareholders will approve the plan as it’s the
right move” to boost trading of the company’s stock, Carlos Alberto Caser, president of the pension fund, said in an
interview in Brasilia yesterday.  Telemar said May 24 it wants to reduce the number of its
listed companies to one from three and cut the number of types
of traded shares to two from seven. Oi SA will be the group’s
only traded company after Telemar delists  Tele Norte Leste
Participacoes SA (TNLP3) ,  Telemar Norte Leste SA (TMAR5)  and  Brasil Telecom SA. (BRTO4) 
The shareholders are likely to vote on the proposal about 6
months after the plan was announced.  Funcef, the Brasilia-based fund for employees of federally
controlled lender Caixa Economica Federal, holds a 7.25 percent
stake in Telemar Participacoes, Caser said. Brazil’s third-
biggest pension fund had 43.8 billion reais ($27.6 billion) in
assets at the end of 2010, including a controlling stake in
iron-ore miner  Vale SA (VALE5) , local Brazilian government bonds and
property, according to a Funcef statement.  Tele Norte fell 1 percent to 25.49 reais in Sao Paulo
trading at the market close. Telemar climbed 0.5 percent to
53.09 reais and the Bovespa index added 0.3 percent.  When the plan was announced, Tele Norte Leste rose 13
percent and Telemar Norte Leste gained 10 percent. That compared
with a 1.6 percent advance for Brazil’s benchmark index on the
same day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Brasilia at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  