-- 
Oil Trades Near Three-Day High on U.S. Retail Sales; Stockpiles Decline

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-06-15T01:24:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/oil-trades-near-three-day-high-on-u-s-retail-sales-stockpiles-decline.html
Oil traded near a three-day high in
 New York  after reports showed U.S. retail sales fell less than
expected and crude supplies slipped a second week, stoking
speculation fuel demand in the world’s biggest crude consumer
will increase.  Futures were little changed after climbing the most in
almost four weeks yesterday. Sales by U.S. retailers dropped 0.2
percent in May, less than the median forecast for a 0.5 percent
decline in a Bloomberg News survey, Commerce Department figures
showed. The industry-funded American Petroleum Institute said
crude stockpiles fell 3.01 million barrels last week.  “There’s a recovery going on. It’s hit a bit of a short-
term patch of weakness but we still see the second half of the
year as being pretty strong,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and
energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne,
who predicted crude will average $113 a barrel in the third
quarter. “Higher oil prices might be having a marginal impact
on growth in the advanced economies but overall there’s nothing
that would suggest a double-dip recession.”  Crude for July delivery was at $99.29 a barrel, down 8
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 11:22 a.m. Sydney time. The contract yesterday gained $2.07,
or 2.1 percent, to $99.37 in the biggest percentage increase
since May 18. Prices are 29 percent higher the past year.  Retail Sales  Brent oil for July delivery climbed 74 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $120.90 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. The more actively traded August contract fell
21 cents to $119.14.  U.S. retail sales fell last month for the first time since
June 2010. Excluding the biggest slide in auto sales in more
than a year, purchases climbed 0.3 percent, according to the
Commerce Department figures.  U.S. crude stockpiles dropped to 363 million barrels, the
lowest in seven weeks, according to the  American Petroleum
Institute  report. Gasoline stockpiles climbed 1.13 million
barrels to 213.5 million barrels, the API said. Oil-supply
totals from the API and the Energy Department have moved in the
same direction 72 percent of the time over the past year.  The institute collects stockpile information on a voluntary
basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  Brent Premium  The Energy Department report today may say crude
inventories slid 1.8 million barrels from 368.9 million,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of 13 analysts. Gasoline
supplies probably rose 1.05 million barrels, the survey shows.  Brent, the European benchmark contract traded at a premium
of $21.60 a barrel to U.S. futures today. The difference between
front-month contracts in  London  and New York reached a record
close of $21.80 on June 13.  The gap is widening because of flows of light, sweet crude
to Europe and  Asia  instead of the U.S. Gulf Coast, Goldman Sachs
said in a note yesterday. The premium is “primarily driven by
the weakening of U.S. Gulf Coast light-sweet crude oil prices
relative to  Brent crude , not a Cushing bottleneck,” Goldman
analysts including New York-based  David Greely  said.  Whereas in the past the gap was determined by excessive
stockpiles at the U.S. storage hub in Cushing, Oklahoma, the
latest divergence is more linked to shortages of blends similar
to Brent crude, BNP Paribas SA said yesterday in a separate
report.  Supplies at Cushing slipped 1.02 million barrels to 38.9
million in the week ended June 3, the Energy Department said in
a report last week.  Oil prices  are “hurting” the global economy and may stall
its recovery,  Fatih Birol , chief economist at the  International
Energy Agency , said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  