-- 
Honda Forecasts Profit to Drop 63% After Earthquake Disrupts Production

-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-06-14T10:14:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/honda-forecasts-full-year-net-income-to-fall.html
Honda Motor Co.,  Japan ’s third-
largest carmaker, forecast a bigger-than-estimated 63 percent
decline in full-year profit, citing production disruptions on
parts shortages and the strong yen.  Net income may fall to 195 billion yen ($2.4 billion) in
the 12 months ending March 31 from 534.1 billion yen a year
earlier, the Tokyo-based company said in a  statement  today. That
compares with the 375 billion yen average of 10 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg in the past 28 days.  Honda predicted a larger decline in profit than Toyota
Motor Corp., as both companies work to restore full operations
after the temblor and tsunami on March 11 damaged parts
factories and caused power shortages. Honda’s global vehicle
sales may decline 6 percent this year to 3.3 million, while
Japan’s strengthened currency will also erode profit, the
company said today.  “The outlook is worse than I expected,” said  Koji Endo ,
an analyst at Advanced Research Japan in Tokyo. “It seems as
though Honda won’t be able to recover in the second half, even
though Toyota and Nissan may be able to.”  Full-year profit at Toyota, Japan’s biggest carmaker, may
decline 31 percent to 280 billion yen in the year started April
1 as global vehicle sales decrease 0.9 percent to 7.24 million,
the company said June 10. Nissan Motor Co., the nation’s second-
largest automaker, has yet to announce its full-year forecast.  Operating Profit  Honda’s full-year revenue may drop to 8.3 trillion yen from
8.94 trillion yen last fiscal year, the company said in today’s
statement. Operating profit may decline to 200 billion yen from
569.8 billion yen, it said.  Output of the Civic model should normalize by November and
global production recover to regular levels by the end of the
year as the critical shortage of parts eases, Fumihiko Ike,
senior managing officer and director, said at a briefing in
 Tokyo .  “It will take us until the end of the year to be able to
produce all models at normal levels,” he said. “We’re offering
incentives to potential buyers of the new Civic in the  United
States .”  The carmaker’s output in Japan should normalize by the end
of June, Honda said today in its statement.  Honda has “no way” to prevent its U.S. market share from
shrinking due to limited supply, Ike said May 17. The company’s
full-year vehicle sales in  North America  may drop 11 percent to
1.3 million, it said today.  Civic, Accord  The maker of Civic compact cars and Accord sedans sold 23
percent fewer vehicles in the U.S. last month compared with a
year earlier, while industrywide deliveries in the world’s
second-largest auto market declined 3.7 percent. Honda’s sales
in  China , the world’s largest vehicle market, dropped 32 percent
the same month.  “It may be difficult for Honda to fully recover and catch
up during this fiscal year,” said Issei Takahashi, an analyst
in Tokyo at Credit Suisse Group AG. “For its first-quarter
earnings, it’s very likely for the numbers to be worse than the
post-Lehman bankruptcy period.”  The strengthened yen, which reduces the repatriated value
of Honda’s overseas earnings, may cut operating profit by 91
billion yen, Honda said. Gains in the Japanese currency reduce
the repatriated value of the company’s overseas earnings.  The Japanese currency advanced 15 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  last year and reached a postwar record of 76.25 on March
17. Honda is basing this year’s profit forecast on an exchange
rate of 80 yen to the dollar. Each 1 yen gain against the dollar
reduces profit by 15 billion yen, Ike said.  The automaker expects 40 billion yen in quake-related costs
and 80 billion yen for raw materials this year, Ike said. An
increase in research and development spending for new models and
technology will also erode profit, Honda said in today’s
statement.  Honda rose 0.7 percent to 2,931 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
Tokyo trading, before the forecast was announced. The stock has
declined 14 percent since March 10, the day before the
earthquake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
萩原ゆき in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  