-- 
Honeywell’s Kramvis Says Materials Unit to ‘Run Like a Hare’ to 18% Margin

-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 
2011-06-14T21:28:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/honeywell-s-kramvis-sees-unit-run-like-a-hare-to-18-margin.html
Honeywell International Inc. (HON) ’s
specialty materials division will increase yearly margins to as
much as 18 percent as demand increases for environmentally
friendly air-conditioning coolants and a chemical used to make
clothing, the unit’s chief executive officer said.  Profit margins at the division, which helped the parent
company beat earnings estimates last quarter, have improved more
than fivefold from 2.9 percent in 2002, the company said. The
unit expects margins of at least 16.5 percent this year and as
much as 18 percent in 2014, a number that CEO Andreas Kramvis
called “extremely solid” in an interview today at Bloomberg
headquarters in New York.  Some of the gains are attributable to government
regulations, such as a mandate to reduce so-called  greenhouse
gases  from refrigerants, and to global trends such as rapid
 population growth , he said.  “The world population is going up every day,” said
Kramvis, whose unit makes products including caprolactam, an
ingredient used in nylon resins and fibers. “It needs to be
clothed.”  Kramvis, 59, took over specialty materials in March 2008.
The division posted $4.7 billion in revenue last year and
represents about 14 percent of the  Morris Township , New Jersey-
based parent company’s total sales, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The specialty materials and aerospace units are leading the
company in profit margins. Aerospace’s first-quarter margin was
17.3 percent.  From 2002, when CEO  David Cote  took over Honeywell, to
Kramvis’s arrival, the division refined its portfolio by
divesting businesses such as industrial wax and polyester fiber.  “Performance improved, but it didn’t kind of run like a
hare, which is what’s happened recently,” Kramvis said.  Honeywell rose $1.48, or 2.7 percent, to $57.19 at
4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have climbed 7.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  