-- 
Wisconsin High Court Ruling Reinstates Law Curbing Public Union Bargaining

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 
2011-06-15T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/top-wisconsin-court-invalidates-ruling-striking-down-union-bargaining-law.html
Wisconsin’s Supreme Court rejected a
county judge’s ruling invalidating a measure backed by Governor
 Scott Walker  that curbed public employees’ collective-bargaining
rights.  Dane County Circuit Court Judge Maryann Sumi exceeded her
authority when she issued a May 26 order invalidating the
legislation, the high court ruled yesterday. The judge had ruled
the measure was created in apparent violation of the state’s
open meetings law.  The Supreme Court’s justices invoked “original
jurisdiction” over the dispute because “one of the courts that
we are charged with supervising has usurped the legislative
power.”  A first-term Republican, Walker signed the legislation on
March 11. It requires annual recertification votes for public
employees’ union representation and makes their payment of
membership dues voluntary. Firefighters and police officers are
exempt.  Under the new law, state workers would contribute 5.8
percent of their salaries toward pensions and pay 12.6 percent
of their health-insurance costs.  Democrats and organized labor opposed the legislation as an
attack on worker rights. Opponents protested inside and outside
the state capitol for almost four weeks.  ‘Move Forward’  “The  Supreme Court ’s ruling provides our state the
opportunity to move forward together and focus on getting
Wisconsin working again,” Walker said in a statement.  The challenge to the law’s legitimacy was filed in March by
Dane County District Attorney Ismael Ozanne. The state capital,
Madison, is also the Dane County seat.  He claimed the bill had been drafted by a conference
committee of six legislators who gave less than two hours’
public notice of the hearing rather than the required 24.  Four of those legislators were Republicans, including state
Senate Majority Leader Scott Fitzgerald and his brother,
Assemblyman Jeff Fitzgerald. Only one of the two Democratic
legislators, Assembly Minority Leader Peter Barca, participated
in the March 9 meeting, and he did so under protest.  Temporary Order  Wisconsin  Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen asked the top
court to take over the case and dismiss it on April 7 after Sumi
issued a temporary order blocking its implementation.  The high court yesterday said the legislature hadn’t
violated the state’s constitution in drafting the measure or in
voting to enact it.  Its ruling included a nine-page order, backed by the
concurring opinion of Justice David Prosser who, last month, was
declared the winner of a disputed April 5 election.  Chief Justice Shirley S. Abrahamson dissented in part,
joined by justices Ann Walsh Bradley and N. Patrick Crooks.  The four-judge majority, Prosser said, agreed that Sumi
exceeded her authority when she prohibited publication of the
act, the last step required to give it force and effect.  “This is not a close question,” he said.  Prosser also said there had been no constitutional
violation.  Abrahamson, while agreeing with Prosser the importance of
the issue before the court, disagreed with the majority’s method
and conclusions.  ‘Must Abide’  “Each person must abide by the law. Each branch of
government must abide by the law,” she said. “This court must
ensure that the law governing judicial rulemaking is followed.”  Kevin St. John, an assistant attorney general, had told the
court on June 6 that Sumi breached the constitutional separation
of powers between the legislative and judicial branches of
government.  “This court should act now to restore the balance of
power,” St. John said. “The legislature has the exclusive
right to determine its process.”  Ozanne that day told the court it should reject the
attorney general’s request that it take control of the matter.  “The clear violation from my standpoint is that they did
not give 24 hours’ notice,” the prosecutor said. “I don’t
think that is in dispute.”  While legislators can give just two hours’ notice if there
is good cause, the defendants here didn’t give that minimum
notice either, he said.  Ozanne, a Democrat, didn’t immediately reply to an e-mailed
request for comment. Phone calls to his office went unanswered.  ‘Shocked’  Barca, in an e-mailed statement, said he was “shocked” by
the ruling.  “I had hoped the Supreme Court would recognize the
importance of our open government tradition and the necessity of
public participation in a democracy,” he said.  The cases are State, ex-rel Ozanne v. Fitzgerald,
2011AP613; and State v. Circuit Court for  Dane County ,
2011AP765, Wisconsin Supreme Court (Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde in Milwaukee at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 