-- 
Optimism Among U.S. Chief Executives Fell in Second Quarter

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-06-14T14:12:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/optimism-among-u-s-chief-executives-declined-in-second-quarter.html
Optimism among U.S. chief executive
officers fell in the second quarter from a record high as fewer
business leaders projected sales will climb, a survey showed.  The  Business Roundtable ’s economic outlook index decreased
to 109.9 for the April through June period from a 113 reading in
the previous three months that was the highest in data going
back to 2002, the Washington-based group said today. Figures
greater than 50 coincide with an economic expansion.  Eighty-seven percent of the 135 CEOs surveyed said they
expected a gain in sales in the next six months, down from 92
percent in the first quarter, a sign that hiring and business
investment may be slow to accelerate. A dip in  capital spending 
will slow manufacturing, the industry that’s propelled the
economic expansion.  “Oil and gas prices are still high,”  Ivan G. Seidenberg ,
chairman of the Business Roundtable and chief executive officer
of New York-based Verizon Communications Inc., said today on a
conference call with reporters. “If they keep coming down I
think that will be helpful.”  Elevated confidence among executives contrasts with
pessimism among American consumers, whose spending makes up 70
percent of the world’s largest economy. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index dipped to a nine-month low in May as gasoline
prices climbed.  The average price of regular gasoline at the pump reached
$3.99 a gallon on May 4, the highest since July 2008, according
to AAA, the nation’s biggest auto group. The price dropped to
$3.70 as of June 12, helping household confidence stabilize.  Roundtable’s Membership  The Business Roundtable’s survey was taken from May 16 to
June 3. The group is an association of CEOs of corporations
representing a combined workforce of more than 13 million
employees and almost $6 trillion in annual revenue. Members
include Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) , Atlanta-based  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) 
and Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   Fifty-one percent of CEOs said they will add to payrolls,
down from 52 percent in the first quarter. Some 61 percent said
they plan to spend more on equipment, down from 62 percent.  The business leaders’ forecast is in line with the May
employment data. Companies in the U.S. added 83,000 workers last
month, the smallest gain since June 2010, according to Labor
Department figures. Payrolls climbed by 251,000 workers in
April.  The chief executives in the Business Roundtable survey
forecast U.S. economic growth of 2.8 percent this year compared
with the 2.9 percent projection in the previous survey. The 2011
projection is higher than the 2.5 percent median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News from June 1 to June 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  