-- 
Osborne to Back Vickers Plan for U.K. Retail-Bank Firebreaks

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-06-15T10:05:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/osborne-to-back-vickers-plan-for-u-k-retail-bank-firebreaks.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will back proposals to erect firebreaks around the
consumer-banking units of British banks as he seeks to protect
taxpayers and depositors during future financial crises.  Osborne will express his support for recommendations drawn
up by the  Independent Commission on Banking  in April for the
first time in public during his annual Mansion House speech to
bankers in  London  this evening, according to a Treasury official
who declined to be named in line with government practice.  The head of the panel, John Vickers, a former  Bank of
England  chief economist, was asked by the government last year
to recommend ways to boost stability and competition in the
British banking industry. The Treasury spent 65.8 billion pounds
($108 billion) rescuing  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  during the financial crisis.  While endorsing the principles of the proposals by
Vickers’s panel, Osborne won’t give details of how much extra
protection he will require for retail banks, the official said.
Instead, the chancellor will wait for Vickers’s final
recommendations on Sept. 12 before deciding how much extra
capital the retail operations of banks should hold above the 7
percent recommended by international regulators.  British bank stocks dropped, with  Barclays Plc (BARC)  falling 1.8
percent at 259.9 pence as of 10:50 a.m. in London trading and
Royal Bank of Scotland slipping 1.3 percent to 41.01 pence.  Vickers Recommendations  Vickers recommended in April that banks put their consumer
operations into separately capitalized subsidiaries within
holding companies to protect depositors and enhance stability.  Such a structure would be less costly for banks than full
separation, Vickers said. In the event of a bank collapse, the
consumer-banking operations could be kept running while
investment-banking activities are able to fail safely, he said.
He held back from an enforced separation of investment-banking
units.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said last year
that all banks had to maintain a reserve of at least 7 percent
core Tier 1 capital, a key measure of financial stability. Banks
that are considered too big to fail may be required to maintain
10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  