-- 
Moso Sugar of Burundi Seeks Private Investors to Help Fund Its Expansion

-- B y   D e s i r e   N i m u b o n a
-- 
2011-06-14T13:53:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/moso-sugar-of-burundi-seeks-private-investors-to-help-fund-its-expansion.html
Moso Sugar Co., Burundi’s only
producer of the sweetener, will seek private investors to help
fund a 44 million-euro ($63.6 million) expansion in return for a
share of the company, Managing Director Audace Bukuru said.  The company, controlled by the government, plans to boost
sugar-cane cultivation by funding irrigation and drainage
programs in sugar-growing areas, Bukuru said in a phone
interview yesterday from Bujumbura, the capital. The  World Bank 
is financing a study to evaluate Moso Sugar’s assets and
determine how many shares should be given to investors in return
for the investment, though the state plans to retain control of
the company, Bukuru said.  “We will open our doors to other investors who are willing
to work with the government,” he said. The World Bank-financed
study is expected to be completed by the end of this year,
Bukuru said.  Moso Sugar, known as Sosumo, currently has ​​3,000 hectares
(7,413 acres) under cane. The expansion program is expected to
enable the company to double plantings to 6,000 hectares and
output to 40,000 tons. Burundi’s government owns 99% of Sosumo,
while  Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI) ’s Burundian unit and  Brarudi
SA , a Burundian brewer, each own 0.5 percent, according to
Bukuru.  Sosumo’s current annual production of about 20,000 metric
tons a year is less than the amount consumed by Burundians. In
2008, traders imported at least 8,000 tons of sugar to meet
domestic demand, Bukuru said. The company will face competition
next year when a second producer starts operating, he said,
without providing further details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Desire Nimubona in Bujumbura via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 