-- 
House Panel Trims $9 Billion From Obama’s FY2012 Defense Budget

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-06-14T16:10:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/house-trims-9b-from-obama-s-defense-budget.html
The House Appropriations Committee
passed today a $649 billion defense spending bill that trims $9
billion from President Barack Obama’s budget while boosting
ground combat vehicles and special operations programs.  The panel increased funding for the  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) 
M1A2 tank upgrade by $272 million and for commando radios and
electronics by $239 million over the Pentagon’s request. The
bill also funds the Pentagon’s request for 32  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  F-35 fighters, while cutting $75 million from research.  The committee strongly endorsed the new Army Ground Combat
Vehicle and buying more  Textron Inc (TXT) .- Boeing Co. (BA)  V-22 Osprey
aircraft. Representative Norm Dicks, a Washington Democrat, said
an Osprey was used to ferry the body of  Osama bin Laden  to a
Navy ship after he was killed in a U.S. raid in  Pakistan  on May
2.  The full committee endorsed reducing the $530 billion base
defense budget by no more than $9 billion -- less than half the
$20.4 billion reduction made in the current year’s defense
budget, which ended up at $513 billion.  Still, House defense appropriation chairman C.W. Bill
Young, a Republican from  Florida , said it was “a difficult
task” for the panel to find cuts. They were needed because “in
this time of financial crisis, no one should be exempt from
tightening their fiscal belts.”  The House bill includes a $119 billion for the wars in
Afghanistan and  Iraq , the lowest figure since $102.6 billion
approved in fiscal 2005, a reflection of decreased troop levels
in Iraq.  Senate Cuts Pending  The defense committee’s Senate counterpart has not yet
scheduled action on its version of the defense bill. Its
chairman, Democrat Senator Daniel Inouye of  Hawaii , has not yet
disclosed how much he intends to cut, said spokesman John Bray.  Inouye’s panel is traditionally the last of the four
defense-related panels in Congress to approve its bill. Inouye
may preview his views June 15 when the panel hears testimony
from outgoing defense Secretary  Robert Gates .  The House committee, in the report accompanying its bill,
said it doubted Gates’s plan to squeeze $100 billion of savings
from efficiency initiatives through fiscal 2016. His plan is
based on broad “better business practices” and reorganizations
that “often times never materialize,” the panel said.  Included are $884 million in “unrealistic efficiencies”
booked as part of $10.7 billion in proposed fiscal 2012 savings,
according to the report. The panel said it was “dismayed to
discover instances where no action is necessary” to achieve
savings, for example.  Gates Cuts Questioned  It’s the most critical congressional commentary to date of
Gates’ proposed savings. If the savings were realized, the
services would retain the savings to keep above inflation
spending on personnel, weapons and research while the overall
budget remains flat.  The fiscal 2012 budget assumes $250 million in savings “by
eliminating 400 internally generated reports,” the report says.
The committee “has repeatedly requested a list of these
reports” and how the savings estimate was derived. The Pentagon
has yet to supply the answers, it said.  Among the biggest cuts, the bill proposes a $435 million
reduction of a $498 million request for  Raytheon Co. (RTN) ’s advanced
medium-range air-to-air missile, because of production delays.
It’s as much as six months behind schedule delivering the
missile to the Air Force and Navy, according to service data.  Raytheon’s Tucson, Arizona-based Missile Systems unit, as
of May 31, was 136 missiles behind schedule, delivering 225 of
361 due by that date, according to data provided by Air Force
spokeswoman Jennifer Cassidy. The backlog has grown from 87 in
December, increasing each month to 129 in April to 136,
according to service figures.  GE Engine  The panel also proposes a cut of $524 million from the
Army’s Enhanced Medium Altitude Reconnaissance and Surveillance
System.  The spending bill does not include any money for the  F-35
Joint Strike Fighter  alternative engine, built by  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc. (RR/)  The Pentagon canceled
that program in April. GE and Rolls-Royce said they would self-
fund the development of a second engine for the rest of this
year and for next year.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt &
Whitney unit provides the primary engine.  The House Armed Services Committee endorsed the self-
funding approach.  Tanks, Vehicles  The House panel also added $272 million for General
Dynamics Corp.’s M1A2 Abrams tank, overriding an Army plan to
suspend the program. The Army had requested $181.3 million.  General Dynamics, based in  Falls Church ,  Virginia , and at
least 200 of its suppliers have been lobbying Congress to add
almost $1.4 billion over the next four years.  The Army’s 2012 budget proposed to suspend the ongoing
upgrade of older tanks to the enhanced M1A2 model while the Army
assesses plans for next-generation armor. The Abrams was
designed in the 1970s.  The Army proposes to shut down work at the Lima, Ohio-based
tank plant between 2013 and 2015.  The committee also said it strongly supported continuation
of the Army’s new class of ground-combat vehicles, valued as
much as $1.35 billion for the prototype phase.  Still, it cut $116 million from the $884 million Army
request, citing an eight-month program delay.  Three winners will be picked for the development phase in
the third quarter of 2011, and one will then be selected for a
production contract seven years later.  The Army plans to buy as many as 1,874 of the vehicles to
replace the fleet of Bradley infantry fighting vehicle. The
ground-combat vehicle is a successor to the manned- vehicle
portion of the $159 billion Future Combat Systems program Gates
canceled in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  