-- 
Pandora Seeks $176.2 Million in IPO After 10 Years of Losses

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-06-14T13:11:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/pandora-seeks-176-2-million-in-expanded-share-sale-after-10-year-loss.html
Pandora Media Inc., the Internet-
radio company, is seeking a $1.8 billion valuation in its
initial public offering today as it bets a 33-fold jump in sales
since 2007 will compel investors to overlook a decade of losses.  The Oakland, California-based company aims to raise as much
as $176.2 million, offering 14.7 million shares for $10 to $12
each, according to a regulatory filing. At the midpoint, Pandora
would be valued at about 13 times last year’s sales, compared
with a multiple of 2.8 for  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI) , the
subscription-based satellite-radio service.  Pandora boosted the size of its offering 43 percent last
week, adding 1 million shares and raising the price from a range
of $7 to $9. While the company will compete with peers such as
Sirius, it may face a bigger risk staying ahead of established
technology companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  that are investing in their own online music
offerings. Pandora shares will trade on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol P.  “They’ve taken an industry that a lot of people wondered
how it could be monetized and have been very creative about
it,” said Anupam Palit, an analyst at New York-based GreenCrest
Capital, which researches private companies. “This has been a
very widely anticipated IPO.”  Pandora, which has lost $92 million since 2000, joins a
spate of recent Internet IPOs, including a planned $750 million
offering from Groupon Inc. and an expanded sale last month from
LinkedIn Corp.  Ad Sales  Founded in 2000 by Tim Westergren under the name Savage
Beast, Pandora makes 87 percent of its sales from advertisements
that target users based on age, gender, home postal code and
musical taste. Ads support the  free radio service , though the
company also sells subscriptions to users who prefer to listen
without advertising.  Sales from ads surged over the past two years as Pandora’s
music application became one of the most popular on Apple’s
iPhone and Google’s Android devices. Now Pandora is facing
increased competition from Apple itself.  The Cupertino, California-based company has reached
agreements with several major record labels to let users of a
new music service store their content on its servers. By moving
the files into the so-called cloud, songs will be available
without users having to synchronize gadgets. Instead, tracks can
be streamed anywhere with a Web connection.  ‘Tremendous’ Risk  Amazon.com, based in  Seattle , unveiled in March its Cloud
Drive service, which allows users to store their digital music
collections remotely and stream them to mobile devices or
computers connected to the Internet. Google, based in  Mountain
View ,  California , announced last month its Music Beta service,
which also allows cloud-based music storage and streaming.  “When you don’t know how aggressive competition is going
to be, but there are a lot of very well-financed players
attacking the space, the risk is tremendous,” said  Richard Greenfield , an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York.  Greenfield estimates Pandora’s per-share revenue at $1.36
in the 12 months through Jan. 31 of next year. The stock would
be “far more compelling” priced at $4 to $5, or about 3.7
times sales, he said.  Startups such as San Diego-based Slacker Inc. and San
Francisco-based  Rdio Inc. , as well as CBS Corp.’s Last.fm, are
also providing competition by offering music through the
Internet.  Seeking Profitability  Spotify Ltd., the London-based online-music provider that’s
currently  available  in seven European countries, has reached
agreements with three major record labels and is close to a deal
with a fourth to begin a U.S. service, which could start as soon
as next month, people with knowledge of the matter said
yesterday.  Pandora is selling 6 million of the shares in the IPO,
while existing shareholders are offering 8.7 million. The
company’s proceeds will be about $58 million after underwriter
fees, filings show, which it will use to pay more than $30
million of accrued dividends and for general corporate purposes.  The company will need to spend money to increase returns
from advertisements that are served to its non-paying users,
GreenCrest’s Palit said. Pandora’s business costs increase as
its sales and listeners grow because it has to pay royalty fees
each time a song is played.  Annual Loss  The annual loss shrank to $1.8 million last year from $16.8
million a year earlier as registered users topped 90 million.
Royalty costs increased 21-fold since 2007 to $69.4 million last
year, while revenue jumped to $137.8 million in the same period.  “They do need to get to profitability relatively soon in
order to justify this multiple,” said Espen Robak, president of
New York-based Pluris Valuation Advisors, whose firm helps
private companies value their stock and other securities. “They
have significant content acquisition costs” that need to shrink
as a percentage of costs, he said.  Hearst Corp., the New York-based publisher, plans to sell
4.4 million shares in the offering to pare its stake to 2.7
percent from 5.7 percent, according to the filing. The largest
shareholders, Crosslink Capital, Walden Venture Capital and
 Greylock Partners , aren’t selling in the IPO.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are
leading the offering.  Bankrate IPO  Elsewhere in IPOs, Bankrate Inc., the online provider of
interest-rate information, plans to raise as much as $320
million this week as it returns to the market after a 2009
private equity takeover.  The company is offering 20 million shares for $14 to $16
each, according to a regulatory filing. The  North Palm Beach ,
Florida-based company is selling 12.5 million shares, while
existing stockholders are selling 7.5 million shares.  The $15 midpoint of the IPO range is about double the
average per-share price of $7.51 that existing investors paid
for their stakes in the company, the prospectus shows. At the
midpoint, Bankrate will have a market capitalization of about
$1.5 billion after the offering.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America Corp. are
managing Bankrate’s offering. The shares will trade on the NYSE
under the symbol RATE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 