-- 
Pandora Rises in Biggest Internet IPO Boom Year Since 2000

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-06-15T20:49:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/pandora-media-raises-234-9-million-in-ipo-after-pricing-stock-above-range.html
Pandora Media Inc., the online-radio
company, gained on its first day of trading as investors raced
to benefit from the biggest surge in Internet share sales since
the dot-com boom a decade ago.  The Oakland, California-based company rose 8.9 percent in
its debut on the  New York  Stock Exchange, under the symbol P. It
sold 14.7 million shares yesterday at $16 apiece, raising $234.9
million in its initial public offering. That was above the top
of the range of $10 to $12.  Investors are flocking to technology IPOs after
professional-networking website LinkedIn Corp. and Yandex NV,
operator of  Russia ’s biggest search engine, provided first-day
gains of at least 55 percent last month. Pandora was especially
alluring after it sold only about 9.2 percent of its shares
outstanding, compared with an average float of 24 percent for
U.S. technology IPOs in the past year.  “It’s a small offering in a hot industry,” said Josef Schuster, founder of Chicago-based IPOX Schuster LLC, which
oversees about $2.5 billion and bought Pandora shares. “That
makes it very easy to place a stock.”  Pandora climbed $1.42 to close at $17.42 on its first
trading day. It is among a dozen Internet companies to go public
this year, the most in any year since 2000, at the height of the
first wave of Web IPOs.  At the closing price, the company had a market value of
about $2.8 billion, or about 20 times last year’s sales,
compared with about 2.7 times for  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI) , the
subscription-based satellite-radio service. Sirius XM had a
market value of about $7.7 billion as of yesterday’s close.  ‘Pent-Up Demand’  “There’s pent-up demand for high-growth, exciting business
models,” said Scott Billeadeau, who helps oversee $18 billion
at Fifth Third Asset Management in  Minneapolis . “There’s demand
and there just aren’t many ways to get access to it,” he said.
“After LinkedIn, there’s definitely some chasing going on.”  LinkedIn, like Pandora, made less than 10 percent of the
company available in its IPO. Surging demand for new Internet
companies, combined with a dearth of available shares, may give
the businesses higher valuations than they deserve, said  Francis Gaskins , president of industry tracker IPODesktop.com. That’s
creating the perception of frothiness in the IPO market, even
for growing companies with established revenue, he said.  “The size of the offering reflects the capital that the
company wanted to raise and the reality that our largest
shareholders aren’t interested in selling,” Pandora Chief
Executive Officer  Joseph Kennedy  said in an interview today.
“They are long-term believers and want to hold the stock, and
that’s really what shaped the size of the offering.”  Apple, Amazon, Google  While Pandora will compete with peers such as Sirius, it
may face a bigger risk staying ahead of established technology
companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
which are investing in their own online music offerings.  Startups such as San Diego-based Slacker Inc. and San
Francisco-based Rdio Inc., as well as CBS Corp.’s Last.fm, also
provide competition by offering music through the Internet.  Spotify Ltd., the London-based online-music provider that’s
available in seven European countries, has reached agreements
with three major record labels and is close to a deal with a
fourth to begin a U.S. service, which could start as soon as
next month, people with knowledge of the matter said June 13.  Founded in 2000 by Tim Westergren under the name Savage
Beast, Pandora makes 87 percent of its sales from advertisements
that target users based on age, gender, home postal code and
musical taste. Ads support the  free radio service , though the
company also sells subscriptions to users who prefer to listen
without advertising.  LinkedIn, Yandex  Amid scarce supply, LinkedIn’s shares more than doubled in
their first day of trading, giving the company a valuation of
$8.91 billion. Yandex jumped 55 percent in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading after raising $1.3 billion in an initial public offering
that sold above the proposed price range.  Pandora, which has lost $92 million since 2000, planned to
sell 6 million shares in the IPO, while existing shareholders
planned to offer 8.7 million, according to the filing.  The annual loss shrank to $1.8 million last year from $16.8
million a year earlier as registered users topped 90 million.
Royalty costs increased 21-fold since 2007 to $69.4 million last
year, while revenue jumped to $137.8 million in the same period.  Hearst Corp., the New York-based publisher, planned to sell
4.4 million shares to pare its stake to 2.7 percent from 5.7
percent, the prospectus showed. The largest shareholders,
Crosslink Capital, Walden Venture Capital and Greylock Partners,
didn’t plan to sell shares in the IPO.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  led
the offering. William Blair & Co.,  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF)  and
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  also helped manage the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net .
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  