-- 
Parking-Technology Startup Streetline Backed by Bill Ford’s Firm

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-06-14T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/parking-technology-startup-streetline-backed-by-bill-ford-s-firm.html
Streetline Inc. , the maker of
technology that helps reduce traffic congestion, attracted $15
million in funding from an investor group that includes a firm
co-founded by  Ford Motor Co. (F)  Chairman Bill Ford.  Ford’s Fontinalis Partners LLC led the investment, along
with  RockPort Capital Partners , San Francisco-based Streetline
said today in a statement. Existing investor  Sutter Hill
Ventures  also contributed to the funding round.  Streetline uses sensors on the ground to send information
to cities, parking garages and airports about how many vehicles
are circling the area. Officials can then raise parking rates in
congested places, helping prices match demand. Drivers also can
use Streetline’s smartphone application to find empty parking
spots nearby or lower rates.  “Parking is a $25 billion industry in the United States
alone and its current transition from coin operated meters to
digital display meters is the first significant change in
technology the industry has experienced,” Victor Westerlind, a
general partner at RockPort, said in the statement. “Streetline
brings parking all the way into the information age by providing
the complete information on which to base decisions.”  The company plans to use the capital to build more products
and expand to more cities, including some overseas. Its
technology is used in neighborhoods in California, Maryland, New
York, Texas, Utah and Washington, D.C.  Fontinalis, which isn’t affiliated with  Ford Motor , seeks
investments that apply technology to the transportation
industry.  Bill Ford , the great-grandson of automobile pioneer
 Henry Ford ,  helped start  the Detroit-based investment firm in
January 2010. He was CEO at Ford Motor until 2006, when Boeing
Co. executive Alan Mulally took the reins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  