-- 
Perkins Wins Approval of $16 Million Bankruptcy Financing

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-06-14T17:02:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/perkins-restaurant-chain-wins-approval-of-16-million-bankruptcy-financing.html
Perkins & Marie Callender’s Inc.,
the owner or franchiser of about 600 restaurants, won court
approval of $16 million in interim financing to help fund
operations while in bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross approved the loan at a
hearing today in Wilmington,  Delaware , saying “there was an
effort to find better terms, and these are the best.”  The company, based in Memphis,  Tennessee , will seek final
approval of an additional $5 million from Wells Fargo Capital
Finance LLC, the agent for the lenders, for total $21 million
facility, at a hearing scheduled for July 11.  The financing is “absolutely essential to kick-start” the
company, Mitchel H. Perkiel, a lawyer for the company, told
Gross at the hearing. The loan is “adequate and sufficient for
the company to operate effectively” and to complete the
restructuring in a timely manner.  The company listed assets of $290 million and debt of
$441 million in yesterday’s Chapter 11 filing.  “The languishing economy, including declines in  consumer
confidence  and sluggish  consumer spending  and increased
commodity costs” hurt its Perkins Restaurant and Marie
Callender’s chains, Jay Trungale, Perkins’s chief executive
officer said in November.  Restructuring Proposal  The company negotiated a restructuring proposal with
noteholders before seeking  bankruptcy protection , according to a
statement yesterday. All of the holders of 14 percent senior
secured notes agreed to support the proposal as well as more
than 80 percent of the holders of the 10 percent unsecured
senior notes.  Under the proposal, which must be filed by July 14,
Minnesota-based private equity firm Wayzata Investment Partners
LLC, the holder of all of the $132 million in 14 percent senior
secured notes, agreed to extend the maturity of the notes by two
years and certain other amendments, according to the statement.  Unsecured creditors, including the 10 percent senior
noteholders which are owed about $190 million, will receive all
of the new equity in the reorganized company. Wayzata owns in
excess of 80 percent of the senior unsecured notes, and will
become the majority owner after the restructuring. The court
must approve the plan by Oct. 21, according to a restructuring
support agreement with the noteholders.  Bond Prices  The senior unsecured notes traded at 15 cents on the dollar
on June 7, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Founded in 1958 as a pancake house in  Ohio , Perkins has
12,350 full- and part-time employees at restaurants in the U.S.
Midwest,  Florida ,  Pennsylvania  and  Canada . Buyout firm Castle
Harlan Inc. acquired the company in 2005 for $245 million in
cash.  In addition to its restaurants, the company sells pies,
muffins, batters and other bakery products to customers
including supermarkets, court filings show.  The case is In re Perkins & Marie Callender’s Inc., 11-
11795,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 