-- 
Philippine South China Sea Oil Contracts ‘Within’ Territory

-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-06-15T07:30:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/philippine-oil-contracts-in-south-china-sea-within-territory.html
The Philippines says oil blocks it
plans to offer to international exploration companies later this
month in the  South China Sea  are “well within” its territory,
after tensions escalated over drilling rights in the area.  Two of the  15 blocks  the nation plans to offer lie within
areas also claimed by China, according to a  map  it presented to
the  United Nations  in 2009. China has repeatedly said it will
oppose any attempt to drill for oil in waters where it claims
jurisdiction. The Philippines and  Vietnam  have both protested
Chinese harassment of oil survey vessels in the past two months.  Disputes over the South China Sea have drawn in the U.S.,
which has a defense treaty with the Philippines and says that
keeping the world’s busiest shipping lane open is of national
strategic importance. Recent signs that  China ’s Southeast Asian
neighbors are pushing ahead with attempts to unlock oil and gas
reserves beneath the ocean floor have raised the risk of
military standoffs in the region.  “The stakes are slowly rising,” Carlyle A. Thayer, a
professor of politics at the Australian Defense Force Academy in
Canberra, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “What
is China going to do by way of response? That’s what’s
worrying.”  The Philippines plans to offer the contracts by the end of
the month, Energy Undersecretary Jose Layug told reporters
yesterday.  ‘Legitimate Rights’  “All areas we’re offering are definitely undisputed and
within Philippine territory,” he said by phone yesterday in
Manila.  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said yesterday
that the government hoped “relevant parties will make more
contributions to peace and stability in the region.”  Hong was responding to a question about a resolution
submitted June 13 by Virginia Senator  Jim Webb  condemning the
use of force by China in the South China Sea and calling for
multilateral negotiations to resolve maritime disputes. Webb is
a Democrat who served as President  Ronald Reagan ’s secretary of
the Navy.  “China is trying to safeguard its own legitimate rights
and interests instead of infringing on other country’s rights,”
Hong said.  In  Washington , State Department spokesman Mark Toner said
the U.S. wants to see a solution “without coercion.”  “We’re obviously concerned in recent days of these events
that have raised tensions in the region,” Toner said at a State
Department briefing. “We share a number of interests with the
international community in the South China Sea. We’re looking
for a peaceful, collaborative and diplomatic process to resolve
this.”  Two Blocks  Two of the blocks set to be offered are in waters close to
where Chinese vessels in March harassed a survey vessel from
 Forum Energy Plc (FEP) , which held a contract from the Philippines to
explore the area.  State-owned PetroVietnam’s Canadian partner, Calgary-based
 Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) , said on its website it aims to begin
drilling next year in a separate block that China awarded to a
U.S. rival and has protected with gunboats. Irving, Texas-based
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  plans an exploratory well off Vietnam this
year, Mark W. Albers, a senior vice president, said in a March 9
meeting with analysts.  Vietnam said June 9 that a Chinese vessel harassed a survey
ship operated by Vietnam Oil & Gas Group in the area Talisman
plans to develop. China disputed that version of events, pitting
Vietnamese vessels as the aggressors.  Joint Naval Drills  The U.S. will hold joint naval drills with former foe
Vietnam next month, the  South China Morning Post  reported,
citing a naval spokesman. Vietnam held a live-fire naval drill
off its coast on June 13.  The Philippines and the U.S. are “strategic treaty
allies,” U.S. Ambassador Harry Thomas said in a speech in
 Manila  yesterday. “We will continue to consult and work with
each other on all issues, including the South China Sea.”  The Philippines is seeking a “peaceful resolution” of the
territorial dispute and is in “constant dialogue” with the
Chinese Embassy on the issue, President  Benigno Aquino ’s
spokesman Edwin Lacierda said June 13 in Manila.  According to the Philippine energy department’s website,
the government will offer 15 blocks with a total area of more
than 10 million hectares in northwest and east Palawan and the
Sulu Sea basins. It held a roadshow in  Singapore  early this
month and will hold more in Houston and  London  before the June
30 launch of the Philippine Energy Contracting Round.  Vietnam’s domestic gas demand is set to triple by 2025,
according to World Bank estimates, increasing the need to drill.
The  Philippines  will boost hydrocarbon reserves by 40 percent in
the next 20 years to reduce its reliance on imports, according
to an energy department plan. China’s oil reserves have shrunk
almost 40 percent since 2001 as the economy grew 10.5 percent a
year on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  