-- 
Philippines May Increase Interest Rate as Inflation Spurs Asian Tightening

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 
2011-06-15T09:42:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/philippines-may-increase-interest-rate-as-inflation-spurs-asian-tightening.html
The Philippine central bank may
tighten monetary policy after inflation accelerated to a 13-
month high, as Asian nations from  China  to India fight price
gains even while growth slows.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas  will increase the rate it pays
lenders for overnight deposits by a quarter of a percentage
point to 4.75 percent, according to 10 of 16 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News ahead of a decision tomorrow. The rest expect
policy makers to keep the benchmark unchanged at 4.5 percent.  Rising food and oil costs have prompted  Asia ’s policy
makers to raise rates, order banks to set aside more money and
allow further currency appreciation to contain price pressures.
Governor Amando Tetangco said the central bank will consider all
its tools this month, including the policy rate and reserve
requirement, to combat inflation threats.  “Inflation expectations are still heightened and there is
a need for monetary tightening -- if not the policy rate then
the reserve requirement,” said Arthur Michael de Castro, an
analyst at Bank of the Philippine Islands in Manila.  The nation’s debt rating was raised to the highest level
since the start of 2005 by Moody’s Investors Service today,
after the government took steps to reduce its  budget deficit . It
was boosted to Ba2 from Ba3, two steps below investment grade.  Stocks Rise  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index gained the most in more
than two months today as the upgrade buoyed sentiment, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The peso is up more than 6.5
percent against the dollar in the past 12 months. Benchmark
three-year bond yields rose to the highest level in more than a
week.  In China, the central bank ordered lenders to set aside
more cash as reserves yesterday after price gains accelerated to
the fastest pace in almost three years in May.  India’s wholesale-price inflation quickened to 9.06 percent
last month, a report showed yesterday, adding pressure on the
central bank to extend the fastest round of interest-rate
increases among Asia’s major economies.  Thailand  and  South Korea  also increased borrowing costs
earlier this month.  Indonesia  kept rates unchanged for a fourth
month last week after gains in the rupiah helped contain
inflation. Most Asian currencies have climbed in 2011, partly
because of foreign capital inflows seeking higher yields.  Bangko Sentral is watching capital flows that may increase
liquidity in the financial markets and boost inflation, Deputy
Governor  Diwa Guinigundo  said today.  ‘All Tools’  “We have to make sure both the liquidity side and the
state of  interest rates  in the market is consistent with our
inflation and output goals,” Guinigundo said in an interview,
citing the surge in inflows and about 1.6 trillion pesos ($37
billion) of cash in the central bank’s special deposit accounts.
“We really need to consider all the tools” as the inflation
forecast for this year “remains elevated,” he said.  Consumer prices in the  Philippines  climbed 4.5 percent last
month from a year earlier, the biggest increase since April 2010.  “We have a number of instruments in our policy toolkit --
policy rate, reserve requirement, macro-prudential measures --
and we will consider all these” at this week’s meeting,
Tetangco said on June 12. Philippine banks are required to set
aside 19 percent of their deposits as reserves, a ratio the
central bank reduced from 21 percent in November 2008.  Inflation Expectation  “Inflation expectations are yet to be anchored, given
commodity prices remain volatile,” said Vincent Tsui, a Hong
Kong-based economist at Standard Chartered Plc. “We maintain
our call for Bangko Sentral to hike by 25 basis points as a pre-
emptive measure to stay ahead of the curve in managing inflation
expectations.”  The Philippines’ $161 billion economy expanded 4.9 percent
last quarter, the smallest gain since 2009. President  Benigno Aquino , who completes his first year in office this month, is
aiming for growth of as much as 8 percent annually from 2011 to
cut poverty. Growth in Asian nations including Malaysia,  India 
and  Vietnam  also slowed in the first quarter.  Manila Electric Co., the Philippines’ biggest power
retailer, said it will charge customers higher prices this month
after power generation costs increased. Jollibee Foods Corp.,
the nation’s largest restaurant operator, said in April profit
growth in the first half of 2011 may be restrained by higher
raw-material prices and operating costs.  Crude  oil prices  have surged about 28 percent in the past
12 months after unrest in the  Middle East  and North Africa
threatened supplies. World food prices climbed to a record
earlier this year, according to the United Nations Food and
Agriculture Organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  