-- 
Philippine Bonds Drop for Second Day on Rate Outlook, Inflation

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-06-14T09:01:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/philippine-bonds-drop-for-third-day-on-rate-outlook-inflation.html
Philippine seven-year bonds fell for
a second day on speculation the central bank will raise
borrowing costs this week to help tame inflation.  Ten of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict the
overnight benchmark rate will be increased 0.25 percentage point
to 4.75 percent on June 16, while the rest forecast no change.
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas has a “number of instruments” to
deal with inflation, Governor Amando Tetangco said on June 12.
 China ’s inflation accelerated to 5.5 percent in May, the fastest
pace in almost three years, the government reported today.  “Everyone’s watching out for the rate decision on Thursday
and what’s clear at this point is that the central bank is still
in a tightening mode,” said Lito Mercado, head of trading at
Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. in Manila. “An inflation spike
in the region could also translate to higher local prices.”  The yield on the 5.875 percent bond due January 2018 rose
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to a one-week high of
5.875 percent as of 4:45 p.m. in Manila, according to Tradition
Financial Services. The peso fell 0.1 percent to 43.368 per
dollar, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  “We have a number of instruments in our policy toolkit --
policy rate, reserve requirement, macro-prudential measures --
and we will consider all these” Tetangco said on June 12.  Philippine consumer prices rose 4.5 percent in May from a
year earlier, the fastest pace in 13 months, official data
showed on June 7. Inflation pressures still exist and the
central bank will assess the impact of the two interest-rate
increases, Tetangco said on June 10.  Bangko Sentral raised its benchmark rate by a quarter of a
percentage point at meetings in March and May, taking it to 4.5
percent.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  