-- 
Piano Whitney Clunker; Snohetta San Francisco Behemoth: Review

-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 
2011-06-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/piano-whitney-clunker-snohetta-san-francisco-behemoth-review.html
The latest design for the $210
million Whitney Museum of American Art looks like a top-heavy
container ship run aground in  Manhattan ’s Chelsea district.  The metal-paneled building by busy architect  Renzo Piano 
makes nothing of a richly textured neighborhood. Did he never
take in the golden light reflected from the  Hudson River ?  In  San Francisco , the news isn’t much better. Norwegian
architect Snohetta has stuffed a bulky $200 million addition
behind the 16-year-old building of the San Francisco Museum of
 Modern Art . Though it strives not to overwhelm, it doesn’t yet
succeed.  Unique conditions allowed transformative growth at both
institutions, but the designs submerge a distinctive artistic
voice. They defer to an aesthetically puritanical time that
condemns expressiveness as a decadent remnant of an era of
excess.  To celebrate the groundbreaking of its new building May 24,
the Whitney has put its final design on view at its current home
on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.  For three decades, well-heeled neighbors thwarted the
Whitney’s attempts to grow beyond its stern, granite-clad 1966
building by Marcel Breuer. An unsuccessful attempt by Piano to
add a mini tower in rumpled metal to the Breuer building was
preceded by a craggy overhanging addition by the Dutch architect
Rem Koolhaas and a lugubrious columned palace by Michael Graves.  Having obtained a downtown site in a neighborhood where
sleek galleries have displaced blood-spattered butchers, the
museum will quadruple its total space to 200,000 square feet.
(The  Metropolitan Museum  of Art has agreed to take over the
Breuer.)  What Happened?  Piano has muddied his 2008 preliminary design. He had
sculpted a towering silhouette in sloping, stone-faced prismatic
facets. That surface would have coaxed the river’s sparkling
light inland. It would have stood in primordial contrast to the
surrounding melange of sooty brick warehouses and tenements.  The Whitney asked Piano to straighten the angled galleries
and sloping walls. He squished the building’s bulk into a clumsy
sandwich of vertical and horizontal boxes. How could this
evocative collision of city and river have defeated him? Perhaps
he is too busy. He also afflicted us New Yorkers with the
awkward expansion of the  Morgan Library & Museum .  The new Whitney sits next to one end of the wildly popular
High Line, a park built atop an abandoned railroad viaduct.
Piano enriched the setting by locating sculpture terraces so
that visitors could gaze on people strolling in the park, and
park visitors could return the favor.  In the current design a block-long 18,000-square-foot
temporary exhibition hall shoves its bulk obtrusively into the
High Line view. This cavernous, column-free hangar is supposed
to be the new museum’s centerpiece, large enough to display the
monumental scale of today’s art stars.  Many Millions  Much better are the three exhibition levels that surmount
the hall because they open onto the sculpture terraces. From
them, art can engage the splendid urban cacophony of the
surroundings.  The Whitney has raised 70 percent of its $720 million goal,
but only one third of this amount goes to the building, an
unusually small percentage of a capital campaign.  In San Francisco, Snohetta curved and creased a massive box
to slither into a tight mid-block site.  The museum will double its size (to 400,000 square feet) to
display the collection of Doris and Donald Fisher, founders of
the  Gap Inc. (GPS)  clothing chain.  No Engagement  From the back of the 1995 building, the addition extends
sideways to Howard Street, forming an L. The architect squeezed
the bulk to leave a gap between adjacent buildings that
accommodates a narrow outdoor passage. It runs from Howard past
a picture-window gallery to a garden and a second entrance. The
new design keeps the existing building’s showpiece atrium lobby
striped in marble by the Italian-Swiss architect Mario Botta.  The $480 million fundraising campaign will add $100 million
to the endowment.  Viewed from the adjacent Yerba Buena Gardens, the
addition’s pinched-in top, with a bit of droop in its
silhouette, softens its presence behind Botta’s natty pin-
striped palazzo. The warped surfaces appear to crack open,
making room for a couple of terraces that will offer expansive
views.  Still, this preliminary design doesn’t distinctively
engage its setting nor yet speak to the art-viewing experience.  In Piano’s hands, architectural deference plays out as
convictionless. SFMoMA feels a bit squishy for such a big
building that will have to gracefully handle a lot of people. It
may yet find the sweet spot between gravitas and welcome.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. Island Press has just
published his book, “The Agile City.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 