-- 
Pisco Sour Inspires Sweet-Talking Promoters for Peruvian Spirit

-- B y   P a u l   G o g u e n
-- 
2011-06-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/pisco-sour-inspires-sweet-talking-promoters-for-peruvian-spirit.html
I learned a few things when I was
hiking the Inca trail to the ruins of the Machu Picchu citadel
in  Peru .  For instance, an altitude-sickness headache at 14,000 feet
makes your head feel like it’s going to explode. The Incas were
mighty handy with stonework. And the national cocktail of Peru,
the pisco sour, is delicious.  I drank a lot of these frothy concoctions, without thinking
much about what went into them. Then I studied up.  Pisco, the main ingredient, is a clear spirit distilled
from grapes and named after the Peruvian port city from which it
was first shipped to other markets. It also means “little
bird” in the language of Peru’s Quechua Indians.  Peruvian law dictates that only certain types of grapes can
be used in pisco’s production, and there’s an organization that
verifies the authenticity of any beverage seeking to be
designated as Peruvian pisco.  Master distiller Johnny Schuler spent about 20 years
working with the Peruvian government and the private sector in
regulating the pisco industry. Last year, he stepped down from
his watchdog post to launch his own brand,  Pisco Porton .  We met at The Trilby bar at the Cooper Square Hotel in
 Manhattan , where he told me that folks have been drinking this
stuff for centuries.  “The history begins when the Spaniards arrive in  South
America  in the mid-1500s,” Schuler said. “They were followed by
a bunch of priests and monks. Everyone discovered to their
dismay that no grapes grew in America. No grapes meant no wine.
No wine meant no Mass on Sundays.  “So this made these guys go back to  Spain , bring back seeds
and plant. When production became abundant, they found it was
easier to transport if it was distilled.”  ‘An Old Product’  Schuler, who was raised in Peru by an American father and a
Bolivian mother of Swiss descent, says the market is growing for
the two countries that produce the spirit, Peru and  Chile .  “It is an old product that today is a new product,” Schuler
said by way of explanation. “Between Chile and Peru, we are
exporting 20,000 cases a year.”  Peruvian law limits distillers to eight grape varieties. As
Schuler and I sipped expertly prepared sours, he explained the
three basic types of pisco that come from that fruit:  “One comprises all the piscos that are single malt called
puro. The second is called acholado, which is a blend of any of
the eight. And the third category is mosto verde, which is the
elite of the piscos because it is distilled before all of the
fermentation has turned into alcohol. For that you need 30
percent more grapes, so it is more expensive and more difficult
to make. It’s liquid velvet.”  ‘Boring Cousin’  Feeling that even more research could do no harm, I met
Lizzie da Trindade-Asher, president of  Macchu Pisco LLC , at the
Latin American restaurant Yerba Buena Perry in the  West Village .
As I endured the sampling of more pisco sours, she offered her
undiluted view of the spirit world.  “Vodka is the boring cousin from  Idaho . Gin is the
overbearing cousin from  Texas ,” da Trindade-Asher said. “Pisco
is the perfect balance between the two, grabbing the attention
of the imbiber without becoming boring after a few sips.”  The Macchu Pisco brand has teamed up with the Peruvian
government in a contest to find the “Centennial Macchu Pisco
Sour” to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the rediscovery
of Machu Picchu. Peruvian consulates in the U.S. are inviting
top mixologists to the “Centennial Macchu Pisco Sour
Invitationals” in  New York ,  Boston ,  Los Angeles ,  San Francisco 
and  Las Vegas . Regional winners get a trip to  Lima  for the
finals.  A Recipe  To keep you happy until then, here is a recipe for a pisco
sour:  In an ice-filled cocktail shaker combine:  -- 1 1/2 ounces pisco  -- 1/2 ounce fresh lime juice  -- 1/2 ounce simple syrup  -- 1/2 ounce egg white  -- a few drops Angostura bitters  Shake for about 15 seconds and strain into a glass with
ice.  To contact the writer of this story:
Paul Goguen in New York at 
 pgoguen1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 