-- 
Planning a Smarter U.S. Defense Against Cyber-Villains: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-14T04:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/planning-a-smarter-u-s-defense-against-cyber-villains-view.html
The threats from cyberspace grow
more powerful and pernicious. Companies from Sony Corp. to
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  to Lockheed Martin Corp. have admitted startling
security lapses. The  International Monetary Fund  last month
suffered a “very major” breach leading to the loss of sensitive
data. Congress and executive branch agencies faced almost 2
billion cyber-attacks a month last year.  Who or what is behind these attacks -- belligerent nation
states, criminal gangs, alienated teenagers -- is rarely clear,
but the message of their mayhem is: Our vast digital
infrastructure, which grows more critical to our civilization
each passing day, is much less safe than we thought.  In a discussion yesterday with Bloomberg View’s editorial
board, Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, noted gravely that cybersecurity is one of two
existential threats facing the U.S. (along with nuclear
weapons). “Because it can get at the structures, the financial
institutions, the transportation systems, the infrastructure
that we have in the country,” he said. “And it needs to be front
and center, in military parlance, in all of our ‘war-fighting
thinking.’”  He’s right, and the Obama administration, to its credit,
has been sounding the alarm on these threats. Last month it
released a legislative proposal urging a number of steps to
protect utilities, financial networks and other infrastructure
that, if compromised, could cause unacceptable public harm. The
proposal isn’t perfect. But it does convey a commendable
seriousness and urgency.  Urgency shouldn’t mean panic. As cyber-attacks grow more
frequent and severe, and they surely will, the Obama
administration needs to resist the inevitable bureaucratic
temptation to overreact. Even as the military strives to reach
President Barack Obama’s goal of saving $400 billion over 10
years, cybersecurity is one area where spending is likely to
increase. This is smart: We have as much to fear from
cybervillains in the near future as we do from enemy air forces
or navies. But we should be wary of defense contractors who see
“cyber” as the next pile of blank government checks.  This argues for devising a cybersecurity strategy with as
much input from the private sector as possible within security
constraints. One tack would be to foster competition and
innovation among civilian software firms, which might develop
cheaper and better tools than existing defense contractors.  The Pentagon will release its first formal cyberstrategy in
coming weeks. We hope it shows a level of resolve and creativity
appropriate to the threat -- but also that rarest of government
qualities: restraint.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 