-- 
Polish Inflation Bets at Six-Month Low on Rate Increases Before Bond Sale

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-06-15T08:20:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/polish-inflation-bets-at-six-month-low-on-rate-increases-before-bond-sale.html
Bond investors are boosting bets
that  Poland ’s central bank will succeed in taming inflation
after policy makers raised borrowing costs at the fastest pace
in almost seven years.  The rally in fixed-rate debt has pushed the yield on
inflation-linked bonds due in 2023 to 287 basis points, or 2.87
percentage points, below similar-maturity standard notes last
week, the smallest gap since December, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The so-called breakeven rate, which reflects
investor expectations for inflation over the life of the bonds,
has narrowed from 340 basis points on March 11. The government
plans to sell as much as 2.5 billion zloty ($921 million) of
inflation-linked and floating-rate notes today.  Poland has raised its benchmark rate to 4.5 percent from
3.5 percent at the start of the year, the most since a 1.25
percentage-point increase from June to August in 2004. The
central bank will “pause” its monetary-tightening policy to
gauge whether this year’s four interest-rate increases will be
enough to slow inflation, Governor Marek Belka said on June 8.  “People thought at the beginning of the year that the
central bank was behind the curve but with the last three rate
hikes in a row they managed to calm the market,” said Dmitri Barinov, who helps manage 12 billion euros ($17.4 billion) in
fixed-income assets at Union Investment Privatfonds in
 Frankfurt . “It had a positive impact on the curve because
people now think they control inflation having delivered hikes
to normalize rates. This is of course positive for the longer
end bonds.”  Inflation Pickup  The government raised a total of 1.03 billion zloty at the
last sale of inflation-linked bonds and floating-rate notes due
in January 2021 on March 16.  Inflation-linked debt pays interest on a principal amount
indexed to the consumer-price index. When inflation speeds up,
the securities pay more interest. They return more than fixed-
interest bonds when the average inflation rate is higher than
the breakeven rate.  Poland in December resumed sales of inflation-linked bonds
for the first time in more than two years as investors sought
protection against rising consumer prices.  The annual inflation rate climbed to 4.5 percent in April
from 3.1 percent in December. A report today will probably show
it quickened to 4.6 percent last month, exceeding the central
bank’s 2.5 percent target for an eight month, according to a
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 28 economists. The
statistics office is schedule to report the data at 2 p.m. in
Warsaw.  Tightening Cycle  The central bank is “still in the tightening cycle,”
Belka said last week after lifting the main rate a quarter
percentage point. Policy makers said they didn’t rule out
further increases if prospects for consumer prices worsen,
according to a central bank statement that day. Inflation will
probably slow within months, Andrzej Slawinski, head of research
at the central bank, said on Radio Tok FM on June 10.  Investors in interest-rate derivatives are betting on one
more increase in borrowing costs by the end of the year. Six-
month forward contracts are trading 33 basis points above three-
month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate.  “I wouldn’t be surprised to see two more rate hikes this
year,” Union Investment’s Barinov said. “Inflation is still a
concern. I can understand why the central bank turned out to be
more aggressive.  Union Investment is ‘‘pretty heavily’’ invested in two-year
notes, he said. Ten-year bonds and debt maturing in September
2022 are also ‘‘attractive’’ as the extra yield they offer over
German equivalent debt is still higher than before the 2008
financial crisis, Barinov said.  Investors demand an extra yield of 287 basis points to hold
Polish 10-year bonds in zloty rather than their euro-denominated
German equivalents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with 193 basis points on Sept. 1, 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  