-- 
Polish Inflation Probably Peaked as Interest Rate Increases Bite

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-06-14T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/polish-inflation-probably-peaked-as-interest-rate-increases-bite.html
Polish inflation probably peaked in
May and will slow in the coming months as the effects of three
interest rate increases by the central bank curb price growth.  Consumer prices rose 4.6 percent from May 2010, compared
with 4.5 percent in April, according to the median estimate of
28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The Warsaw-based  Central
Statistical Office  will release inflation data at 2 p.m. today.
Prices advanced 0.4 percent on the month, the survey showed.  The  Narodowy Bank Polski  raised its benchmark seven-day
rate by a quarter-point to 4.5 percent on June 8, the fourth
increase this year and the third in three months, to curb
inflation, which hovered in April above the central bank’s 2.5
percent target for a seventh consecutive month. Policy makers
are concerned that Poles will demand higher wages in the face of
strong price growth.  “The June rate hike was in reaction to price growth as
this peak was anticipated by the Monetary Policy Council,” said
Tomasz Regulski, an economist at Raiffeisen Bank Polska in
Warsaw, which forecasts a rate of 4.8 percent. “We may see one
more rate increase in September if prices grow more than
expected.”  Policy makers around the world are battling to contain
inflation spurred by rising food, commodity and energy costs.
Central banks in Norway, Russia and  Denmark , along with the
 European Central Bank , have increased borrowing costs in the
past two months in response to price pressures.  Poland ’s central bank will wait to see if the three last
interest raise increases, which brought the main  base rate  up
three-quarters of a percentage point to 4.5 percent, will be
sufficient to slow inflation to its medium-term target, Governor
 Marek Belka  said last week.  “This statement could be interpreted as an informal switch
to a neutral bias in monetary policy, which supports our
scenario of leaving  interest rates  unchanged to the end of this
year,” said Katarzyna Hyz, an economist at PKO Bank Polski in
Warsaw.  Inflation expectations in May were lower than the inflation
rate for the first time in almost a year. Polish companies and
households expected annual price growth at 4.3 percent within
the next 12 months and only a fifth of those surveyed by the
central bank expected inflation to accelerate, down from 31
percent in April.  Falling oil prices are also helping damp inflation
expectations. Crude for July delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  slid 2.6 percent to $99.29 a barrel on June 10, the
biggest drop since May 11, as  Saudi Arabia  last week signaled it
will boost supplies.  “Inflation is driven by factors that are beyond the impact
of domestic monetary policy and demand pressure is still
relatively low, so central bankers may easily pause the
tightening for some time,” said  Grzegorz Maliszewski , chief
economist at Bank Millennium in Warsaw.  Not everyone is convinced that rates won’t rise further,
with investors on the derivative market expecting two more
increases this year. Six-month forward rate agreements are
trading 50 basis points above the three-month Warsaw interbank
offered rate, down from 80 before the June increase, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Inflation will slow but it won’t be as significant a
slowdown as expected, which leaves the door for further rate
hikes open,” said Piotr Bielski, an economist at Bank Zachodni
WBK in Warsaw.  Elzbieta Chojna-Duch, a Council member, said on May 24 she
expects annual inflation rate to drop to 3 percent at the end of
this year and meet the target by 2012. Bielski estimates the
index will be still above 4 percent in December.  Core inflation rate, a measure of local demand pressures,
probably rose to 2.2 percent in May from 2.1 percent in the
previous month, according to median estimate of 18 economists
polled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  