-- 
Polyester Shirts to $3 Shoes Face Highest U.S. Tariffs

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-06-14T19:34:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/polyester-shirts-to-3-shoes-face-top-u-s-duties-study-finds.html
Low-cost imports of items such as $3
sneakers, polyester shirts and drinking glasses face the
steepest U.S. tariffs, punishing poor consumers without
benefiting American manufacturers, according to a study.  “We need to bring pro-shopper populism into trade
debates,” Edward Gresser, director of the ProgressiveEconomy
project in  Washington  and a former Clinton administration trade
official, said today at an event in Washington to release his
study. “This is easily the most regressive of taxes.”  Many of the goods are no longer made in the U.S. so the
protection isn’t saving jobs, he said. Most of the sneakers come
from  China . Overall employment in the four highest-protected
industries -- clothes, footwear, luggage and linens -- fell to
240,000 last year from 1.8 million in 1970, the study said.  Gresser combed through the U.S. tariff schedule to find the
products with the highest import duties. Home goods face tariffs
20 times the average U.S. duty, raising $14 billion a year in
revenue for the  U.S. Treasury . That accounts for two-thirds of
all the tariff revenue, he said.  The findings were released at an event where Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat and chairman of the Senate Finance
Committee’s subcommittee on trade, said they show the need to
rework the tariff code. Two bills in Congress would lift some
tariffs for goods not made in the U.S., one for footwear and the
other for hiking shoes and other outdoor wear.  “It’s inefficient and wrong that so many goods are saddled
with high tariffs,” Wyden said. “We need to get the interests
of consumers and taxpayers taken care of.”  High Rates ‘Concealed’  Overall, U.S. tariffs average 1.7 percent if various free-
trade agreements and preference programs are exempted.  “The low average conceals some very high rates on
particular products, preserved intact throughout nine postwar
trade agreements,” Gresser wrote. Most of those high tariffs
cover home goods such as towels, luggage, cheap shoes, linens
and clothes, he said.  In all, the U.S. raises $9.5 billion on $65 billion a year
on clothing imports, and $2 billion on $20 billion in footwear
imports, according to U.S. International Trade Commission data
analyzed by Gresser.  Goods such as cashmere sweaters, snakeskin purses and silk
shirts face low or no  import duties .  “In practice, the tariff system is not only a way to tax
home goods but to focus that tax on the goods shoppers buy at
Main Street retailers, Wal-Marts and Payless shoe stores,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  