-- 
Premier Oil, Huntington Partners May Lend $40 Million to Sevan

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   W i l l   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-06-14T16:10:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/premier-oil-huntington-partners-may-lend-40-million-to-sevan.html
Premier Oil Plc (PMO)  said that partners
in the U.K. Huntington oil field may have to lend $40 million to
 Sevan Marine ASA (SEVAN)  to allow deployment of a production vessel.  The partners including  Norwegian Energy Co. ASA  and EON AG
have a lease agreement with Sevan Marine for its floating
production, storage and offloading vessel, Sevan Voyageur. Sevan
Marine has insufficient funds to cover cost overruns on the
project, which was due to pump first oil by April 2012.  “We are working with them to see if we can stay on track,
but it’s not easy,” Simon Lockett, the chief executive officer
at Premier, said today in an interview in  London . We have some
rights that “allow us to protect the schedule, to put up the
money and make sure the project works.”  Sevan Marine, the Norwegian owner of oil production
vessels, today reported a first-quarter loss and said the
outcome of a proposed debt restructuring is “still uncertain.”
In May, Noreco said the Huntington partners have “the right to
buy the unit under certain conditions.”  The partners may put up the money in return for a lower
day-rate for the vessel, Lockett said. “But we are not in that
position yet” and “within the next six weeks we will have much
greater clarity on the situation.”  The Huntington field is located in license P1114 in the
U.K. part of the central  North Sea . EON owns 25 percent of the
license, while Noreco holds 20 percent, Premier owns 40 percent
and  Carrizo Oil & Gas Inc. (CRZO)  15 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy in London at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  