-- 
Puerto Rico, Island and State of Ambiguity: Esmeralda Santiago

-- B y   E s m e r a l d a   S a n t i a g o
-- 
2011-06-14T04:01:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/puerto-rico-island-and-state-of-ambiguity-esmeralda-santiago.html
President Obama will visit Puerto
Rico today for a series of meetings to discuss the island’s
status. He has vowed to work with Congress and with Puerto
Ricans living on and off the island to settle  this issue  once
and for  all . It is arguably the single most contentious subject
among Puerto Ricans.  Friends and family members are split on their positions:
for statehood, for independence or for a continuation of the
status quo, in which the  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico  remains an
unincorporated territory of the U.S. Arguments are often heated,
as befits a discussion that has lasted more than 100 years.  It is impossible to be Puerto Rican without someone asking
your opinion about the status question. It is in our marrow, our
ambivalence about the quasi-citizenship that makes it impossible
to be 100 percent Puerto Rican (because we’re American citizens)
or 100 percent American (because we’re Puerto Rican), even as we
insist that we are one or the other.  In the U.S., we are viewed as second-class citizens. We are
often regarded by even the most educated people as immigrants,
burdened with the associated negative stereotypes yet rarely
credited with having overcome the challenges of immigration.  Our struggle for self-determination touches Puerto Ricans
daily, though its history is largely unknown in the U.S. Puerto
Rican nationalists attempted to assassinate President Harry S. Truman and shot up Congress in the 1950s. Over the years, there
have been rebellions, political prisoners, the killing or
attempted killing of nationalist leaders, bank robberies and
bombings by the radical movement Los Macheteros, the machete
wielders.  A Presidential Pledge  And now the president pledges to help resolve the matter.
Before his visit, Obama will have been briefed on  Puerto Rico .
The island has been a colony for over five centuries, beginning
with a series of invasions by the Spaniards in the fifteenth
century. In 1898, the U.S. Navy invaded Puerto Rico during the
Spanish-American War.  Puerto Ricans have been U.S. citizens since 1917. We can
vote in the presidential primaries that are held on the island
but not for president in the general elections -- unless we live
in the U.S. In short, we are quasi-American citizens on the
island and can only discharge our civic duties fully on the
continent.  There are 3.8 million  Puerto Ricans  on the island and 4.2
million more  in the U.S.  Both Spanish and English are official
languages in Puerto Rico. The current pro-statehood governor,
Luis Fortuno,  has made much of our bilingualism , but a short
drive beyond  San Juan  proves that this is more a goal than a
reality. We’re holding fast to what’s left of our Spanish
heritage, primarily the language.  English Is Everywhere  Still, the ubiquitous signs in English and the impressive
presence of American businesses like Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and
Walgreen Co. demonstrate that Puerto Ricans have accepted
American culture and customs with alacrity.  On his visit, Obama might sense the anguish of Puerto
Ricans over the island’s unemployment rate. It was  16.4 percent 
in April, compared with 9 percent in the U.S. Another cause for
despair is the alarming incidence of murder. Obama might be
skeptical, as we are, when the local police blame drug conflicts
for the crime, as if that makes it less frightening or more
acceptable. Obama might not be aware of violence against women
and gay people, and the reports of suicides that have become
more common since the economic downturn.  Worries About Pipeline  Very likely, no one will speak to Obama about the
corruption at high levels of government and law enforcement. He
might not be told about popular opposition to Fortuno’s current
pet project -- a  gas pipeline  that would cut across some of the
island’s fragile ecosystems and possibly expose adjacent
communities to explosions.  But the president might hear that the population is aging.
Although Puerto Ricans living in the U.S. often return to the
island as retirees, the young frequently leave for opportunities
unavailable at home. Between 2005 and 2009, Puerto Rico lost
300,000 people and gained 160,000, for a net loss of 140,000,
about 4 percent of its population. Those departing had a higher
education level than those returning, producing a loss of
potential leaders for the island.  During Obama’s brief visit, he may get a glimpse of anti-
American protests. He has written that he is “firmly committed
to the principle” that Puerto Rico’s status is “a matter of
 self-determination .” His President’s  Task Force  on Puerto Rico’s
Status recommends two plebiscites, the first to determine
whether Puerto Ricans prefer to be independent or in a legal
relationship with the U.S. If they choose the latter, the task
force proposes a second vote that presents three options:
statehood, free association or some form of commonwealth.  Still Second-Class  The first plebiscite would be the most painful. We would
have to choose whether we are American or Puerto Rican. As a
Puerto Rican living in the U.S., I would not get a vote, but I
would watch it closely. If Puerto Ricans choose against
independence and, later, against statehood, the ambiguities we
have lived with for more than a century in association with the
U.S. and for 400 years before that under Spanish rule will
continue. Nothing will change. We will remain second-class
citizens in our own land and in the world.  (Esmeralda Santiago is the author of three memoirs and the
upcoming novel “Conquistadora,” which will be available in July.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this op-ed:
 messagetoesmeralda@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this op-ed:
Lisa Beyer at   lbeyer3@bloomberg.net  