-- 
Oil Giants Coddled Qaddafi, Lobbied On His Behalf

-- B y   J u d y   P a s t e r n a k ,   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-06-14T04:01:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/qaddafi-coddled-by-u-s-oil-companies-whose-hearts-are-where-the-money-is.html
The week after U.S. oil executives
in Libya received tongue-lashings from  Muammar Qaddafi  and one
of his lieutenants in February 2008,  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) 
hired an additional lobbyist.  Hogan & Hartson, one of  Washington ’s oldest law firms, had
one mission, according to documents filed by Occidental: To get
Libya exempted from a law signed the previous month by President
 George W. Bush  letting American terrorism victims seize assets
of countries found liable.  The dictatorship was an explicit target of the legislation.
Qaddafi had taken responsibility for the 1988 crash of a Pan Am
flight in Lockerbie, Scotland, that killed 270 people, including
189 Americans. Courts in France, Germany and the U.S. also had
linked his regime to a 1989 blast that downed a Paris-bound
flight in the Sahara, killing 171, and a 1986 attack at a Berlin
disco that killed two American soldiers and a Turkish woman.  U.S. oil producers nonetheless rallied on behalf of
Qaddafi, according to formerly secret State Department cables
published this year by WikiLeaks and lobbying records. The six
U.S. oil companies, including Occidental, and two U.S. units of
foreign companies doing business in  Libya , boosted lobbying
expenditures 63 percent to $75.8 million in 2008, when they were
pursuing the waiver for Libya, filings show.  Congress voted in July 2008 to spare Libya from the
terrorism measure in exchange for its promise to create a fund
for victims. The companies’ wooing of U.S. lawmakers and
officials seemed to have paid off.  February Uprising  Then came the uprising in February that triggered the civil
war now ravaging Libya. The U.S. oil companies have largely
abandoned production and pulled their employees out of the
country, underscoring the futility of their actions to help
Qaddafi and, in the view of critics, their dubious propriety.  “I don’t understand where the corporate citizenship comes
in,” said Senator  Frank Lautenberg , the New Jersey Democrat who
sponsored the amendment that incurred Qaddafi’s wrath. “In many
cases, their hearts are where the money is,” he said in an
interview.  Lautenberg, who had singled out Qaddafi in introducing his
amendment, ultimately co-sponsored the waiver for Libya because
of the victims’ compensation fund.  The oil companies’ efforts for Qaddafi and their own
profits enriched a repressive regime, said Arvind Ganesan,
business and human rights director in the Washington office of
 Human Rights Watch .  Welcome Relief  “Instead of pushing for short-term stability in business,
these people should have been pushing for more accountability”
by the Libyan government, said Ganesan, who has studied and
written about Africa’s oil industry. The current upheaval shows
“what happens when you don’t,” he said in an interview.  For the companies operating in Libya at the time --
Occidental, ConocoPhillips,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Marathon Oil
Corp. (MRO) ,  Hess Corp. (HES) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and the U.S. subsidiaries of BP
Plc and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  -- the exemption was a relief.  It meant a continuing opportunity to tap Libya’s coveted
light, easily refined crude and to solidify ties with a country
that has the largest proven reserves in Africa. In 2008, U.S.
companies were accounting for 30 percent of the 1.7 million
barrels of oil Libya produced daily, a cable from the U.S.
embassy in Libya said on Aug. 29 of that year. Marathon in 2008
generated 22 percent of its net worldwide production in Libya,
according to Sam Hanna, an analyst for Englewood, Colorado-based
 IHS Inc. (IHS)   Lobbying Success  The companies’ waiver quest gained urgency after Qaddafi’s
demand that they get Libya off the hook or else, according to
interviews and State Department cables examined by Bloomberg
that were posted by WikiLeaks on its website. Qaddafi chose
executives of two companies with successful lobbying track
records in Washington to convey his message.  On or about Feb. 24, 2008, the dictator summoned
ConocoPhillips Chairman and Chief Executive Officer James J. Mulva to Sirte, Qaddafi’s hometown in northern Libya. Mulva
endured “a half-hour ‘browbeating,’” according to a March 12,
2008,  cable  written by Chris Stevens, U.S. charge d’affaires for
Libya.  Qaddafi “threatened to dramatically reduce Libya’s oil
production and/or expel” U.S. oil companies, and told Mulva to
“engage members of the U.S. Congress and The Administration”
on the issue, Stevens wrote.  On Feb. 25, Shokri Ghanem, chairman of Libya’s state-owned
oil company, “chastised” Phil Goss, Exxon Mobil’s country
manager, for almost an hour, Stevens wrote. U.S. companies had
to “‘tell Washington’” that “Libya was serious,” about
slashing production in retaliation, according to the Stevens
cable, which is among thousands of State Department documents
published since January by WikiLeaks.  Court Ruling  John Roper, a spokesman for Houston-based  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,
declined to comment on the reported meeting. Patrick McGinn, a
spokesman for Irving, Texas-based Exxon Mobil, said in an e-
mail, “We do not comment on media reports, speculation or
classified documents.” Stevens declined to comment in an e-mail
from Benghazi, Libya, where he is now a special envoy to the
Libyan opposition.  A U.S. District Court ruling two weeks before Bush signed
the bill with the Lautenberg measure illustrated its threat to
oil companies. The court ordered Libya and government officials
to pay $6 billion to the families or estates of six American
victims of France’s UTA Flight 772 that crashed in 1989. More
than two dozen other suits had been filed by the injured and
families of those killed in attacks linked to Libya.  Risks to Contracts  The companies were worried that their Libyan holdings were
at risk, with their contracts threatened if payments to
Qaddafi’s government were channeled to terrorism victims by
courts or potentially worthless if Qaddafi ordered them out of
the country.  “We felt that using our assets as collateral in finding a
solution to the Lockerbie funding was extremely unfair,” Don
Duncan, who was ConocoPhillips’ top lobbyist at the time of the
Qaddafi meetings, said in an interview.  Oil companies in Libya had to perform a balancing act after
the Lautenberg amendment, said Duncan, who retired in April
2008, before the Libya exemption was granted: Fight against
legislation they felt to be unjust without being seen as arguing
against the interests of terrorism victims.  “It’s not something you develop white papers on,” Duncan
said.  Within days of Qaddafi’s scolding of ConocoPhillips’ Mulva,
the U.S.-Libya Business Association, formed in Washington by
U.S. oil companies operating in Libya, wrote to Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice urging her to pursue a waiver from the
law. It “unjustly puts the entire burden of terrorism claims
reparations on a few U.S. companies that have made substantial
investments” in Libya, according to the letter.  Sanctions Lifted  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of
Manufacturers and the National Foreign Trade Council joined the
Libya group in signing the letter.  David Goldwyn, a Washington consultant who previously was
an Energy Department assistant secretary for international
affairs, had the U.S.-Libya Business Association as a client at
the time and served as its executive director. The association
paid Goldwyn’s firm $203,500 in the fiscal year ended June 30,
2008, according to filings with the Internal Revenue Service.  The group was created after a 2003 rapprochement with
Libya, in which Qaddafi’s government renounced terrorism and
weapons of mass destruction.  The U.S. responded to Qaddafi’s gesture by lifting 19-year-
old sanctions on Libya. American oil companies moved into the
country to make up for time lost to European competitors such as
Rome-based  Eni SpA (ENI)  and Paris-based Total SA, according to cables
spanning 2004 through 2009 published by WikiLeaks.  ‘Fierce Competition’  There was “fierce competition” to enter the Libyan
market, a Nov. 21, 2007, cable from the embassy in Tripoli said.
More than 40 companies were already operating there, and the
latest bidding for exploration and production rights had drawn
offers from 60 oil producers, according to the cable.  Libya was “an exceptionally difficult place in which to
operate,” the  cable  said. The state-owned National Oil Corp.
was seeking a bigger share of the oil the companies produced
than called for in negotiated agreements, raising “serious
questions about NOC adherence to the sanctity of existing
contracts,” according to a cable from a U.S. embassy official
on Oct. 26, 2007.  Visa Struggles  The Americans also struggled to get employee visas, which
were usually contingent on hiring Libyans, the November cable
said. Qaddafi’s government “regularly assigns both qualified
and unqualified Libyan workers to foreign energy companies,”
which often reacted by “paying these individuals without
expecting them to work,” according to a State Department
investment-climate statement last March. The rule of thumb was
one job to a Libyan for each U.S. employee’s initial visa and
another Libyan job for every year the U.S. worker stayed.  The U.S. companies pushed on. In November 2007, Exxon
Mobil, the world’s largest publicly traded oil producer, added
more than 2.5 million offshore acres in the Mediterranean Sea to
its Libyan block. This was a 50 percent increase and “another
step for Exxon Mobil towards regaining a major share of the
Libyan market,” a cable said that month.  With the country planning to increase production to 3
million barrels daily by 2013, Libya promised to be lucrative
for oil companies set up there.  ‘Very Attractive’  “Libya is a very attractive place,” Occidental Chairman
and CEO Ray R. Irani told analysts on an October 2007 earnings
call.  The Lautenberg amendment threatened to undo everything.  “We talked to both the State department and the Libyan
government about the compensation issue,” Goldwyn said in an
interview, speaking of the U.S.-Libya Business Association. “We
provided the State Department our insights, we told them the
message we were delivering to the Libyan government and helped
them brainstorm.”  Companies acted on their own as well. Among them was Los
Angeles-based Occidental, which had extended more than a dozen
Libya contracts for 25 years, agreeing to spend more than $13
billion in the country, according to Stevens’ cables, one of
which said Occidental was spending 70 percent of its global
exploration budget in Libya.  With the hiring of Hogan & Hartson in March 2008,
Occidental obtained the services of former House Republican
leader Robert Michel and former Representative John Edward
Porter, who both worked for the firm. Occidental paid $190,000
to Hogan & Hartson, as well as $100,000 to O’Melveny & Myers, a
Los Angeles law firm whose Washington office already had been
hired to focus on the Libya exemption.  U.S. Chamber  Richard S. Kline, a spokesman for Occidental, declined to
comment. Robert Kyle of  Hogan Lovells , the successor to Hogan &
Hartson, led the firm’s lobbying effort and didn’t respond to
messages seeking comment.  The U.S. companies all used their in-house lobbyists to
make the case as well, their lobbying reports show.  “We lobby ethically, constructively and in a bipartisan
manner,” Chevron spokesman Lloyd Avram said in an e-mail. Hess
spokesman Jon Pepper didn’t respond to an e-mail and phone
calls. Lee Warren, a Marathon spokesman, declined to comment.  The oil companies also sought help from the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, the biggest business lobbying group. R. Bruce Josten,
the Chamber’s executive vice president for government relations,
said in an interview he attended meetings about the waiver issue
with oil company representatives, Goldwyn of the U.S.-Libya
Business Association and lawmakers from oil-producing states
including Democratic Senator Mary Landrieu of Louisiana and
Republican Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska.  Libya’s Income  For Libya, the concern was that oil taxes, rents and
production money from U.S. companies would be diverted to pay
victims. Oil and gas proceeds accounted for more than 90 percent
of Libyan government revenue, according to a report last October
by the  International Monetary Fund .  The Libyans wanted to protect that income, which their
government estimated at $1 billion a month and a ConocoPhillips
executive put at $500 million to $750 million a month, according
to a Stevens cable. Libya demanded that U.S. companies begin
paying in euros to avoid the U.S. financial system, Stevens
wrote. The companies complied, he said in a cable.  On March 12, Libya signed a $2.4 million contract with its
own lobbyist, the Livingston Group, according to reports filed
with the  Justice Department . The firm was co-founded by Bob Livingston, a former Republican representative from Louisiana.  ‘Ongoing Contact’  Throughout the week of March 24, the Livingston Group had
“ongoing contact” about Libya by phone with Goldwyn, a Hogan &
Hartson lawyer retained by Occidental, the U.S.-Libya Business
Association and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, according to the
filings. The Livingston Group also escorted Libya’s ambassador
to meetings with 64 members of Congress between April and July
of 2008, the firm reported to the Justice Department.  Livingston himself met twice with oil company
representatives about a Libya waiver, he said in an interview.
“They were very anxious to do business over there,” he said.
The Livingston Group dropped Libya as a client in 2009.  The message was getting through. On March 18, four members
of Bush’s Cabinet -- Secretary of State Rice, Defense Secretary
Robert Gates, Energy Secretary Samuel W. Bodman and Commerce
Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez -- had written to House Speaker
Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid proposing
legislation that would let Bush exempt Libya from the Lautenberg
amendment.  ‘Chilling Effect’  Applying it to countries no longer designated a state
sponsor of terrorism would “hamper severely” U.S. efforts to
get those countries “to stand with us against the threats of
global terrorism,” according to the letter.  Allowing assets to be attached also would have “a chilling
effect on potentially billions of dollars in investments by U.S.
companies in Libya’s oil sector, investments affecting U.S.
energy security,” the Cabinet secretaries wrote.  Lobbying for the waiver continued through April 2008.
Marathon, which had formed a joint venture with Hess and
ConocoPhillips that spent $1.8 billion to return to Libya after
the sanctions were lifted in 2004, hired Amos Hochstein, a
former senior policy adviser to the House International
Relations committee, to work solely on the Libya issue,
according to disclosure forms.  Hochstein, who declined to comment, had just finished a
stint as deputy campaign manager for Senator Christopher Dodd’s
unsuccessful bid for the Democratic nomination for president.
Previously, he’d been employed by lobbying company Cassidy &
Associates, where he now serves as executive vice president for
international operations.  Rice Visits Qaddafi  On July 31, 2008, the Libyan Claims Resolution Act passed
by unanimous consent in Congress. Signed into law by Bush on
Aug. 4, the legislation gave Libya immunity from lawsuits tied
to past terrorism. The following month, Secretary of State Rice
made the highest-level visit to Libya by a U.S. official in more
than 50 years, welcoming Qaddafi as an ally in the war against
terrorism and symbolically sealing ties between the two nations.  On Feb. 10, 2009, according to a cable written two days
later, Ghanem, Libya’s oil chief, met with  Gene Cretz , the new
U.S. ambassador, “saying he was pleased that normal relations
had been restored.”  The meeting also made it clear that Qaddafi’s demands
hadn’t ended. The state-owned oil company had “lent” $700
million to the $1.5 billion compensation fund and needed
reimbursement, Ghanem told the ambassador, according to the
cable. Prime Minister Baghdadi Mahmudi had assembled
international oil companies for a meeting earlier in the month
“and pressed them” to contribute, Ghanem said. Their failure
to do so “had led the leadership to conclude that the companies
were merely exploiting Libya’s resources,” the cable
paraphrased Ghanem as saying.  Pulled Out  Cretz responded that putting pressure on U.S. companies to
finance the fund “crossed a red line” and contradicted the
understanding between Libya and the U.S. There is no indication
in the cables that any U.S. company donated.  Almost two years later to the day from that meeting,
protesters following the lead of pro-democracy demonstrators in
Egypt and Bahrain rallied in Benghazi, demanding Qaddafi’s
ouster and set off a civil war that continues today.  Conoco, Marathon, Occidental and Hess all have quit
production in Libya and pulled expatriate employees out of the
country, according to spokesmen for the companies.  Exxon Mobil wasn’t producing oil in Libya at the time of
the uprising and hadn’t yet begun planned exploratory drilling,
said Margaret Ross, a spokeswoman. Chevron already had pulled
out in 2009, after an exploratory well came up dry.  The companies say they don’t know what’s happening to their
assets in Libya. “We have no visibility on that,” David
Roberts, a Marathon executive vice president, told analysts and
investors on a May 3 earnings call.  “Libya and the whole thing was not exactly a financial
success” for the oil companies, Fadel Gheit, an analyst for
Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York , said in an e-mail, “although it
was a bonanza for the madman Qaddafi.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Judy Pasternak in Washington at 
 jpasternak1@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  