-- 
Argentina Airports Shut, Qantas Cuts Flights on Volcano Ash

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-06-14T21:16:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/qantas-jetstar-flights-disrupted-for-a-third-day-on-volcanic-ash-cloud.html
A cloud of volcanic ash disrupted
flights across the Southern Hemisphere and threatened to
postpone the start of the Copa America soccer tournament next
month as teams face delays in arriving to  Argentina .  Flights in and out of Buenos Aires’s Ezeiza and Aeroparque
international airports were canceled after authorities reversed
plans to reopen them yesterday, affecting travel to cities
including Paris, Houston,  Sao Paulo , Atlanta and Miami.  Qantas
Airways Ltd. (QAN)  said it will pare Australia flights for a fourth
day as the volcanic ash cloud spreads away from Chile.  “Conditions aren’t yet improving,” said Melina Calvo, an
Aeropuertos Argentina 2000 SA spokeswoman. “It seems that the
problem could expand to other neighboring countries.”  Air traffic in Argentina may take a week to return to
normal, Calvo said, as carriers including  Lan Airlines SA (LAN)  and
 AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines ground planes because of concerns
that volcanic ash may clog jet engines. Services were disrupted
following a June 4 eruption at the Puyehue-Cordon Caulle
volcanic complex in southern  Chile .  Peru President-elect Ollanta Humala, on a regional tour
following his June 5 victory, took a boat from Uruguay to Buenos
Aires last night ahead of a meeting today with President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner . At Uruguay’s  main airport  in
Montevideo, more than 400 flights have been delayed since the
ash cloud arrived last week, affecting 15,000 passengers,
newspaper El Pais said.  Scrapped Flights  Qantas scrapped all flights to  New Zealand  and the
Australian island of Tasmania tomorrow morning, extending a
shutdown. Chile, whose airports are operating normally, has
cancelled 30 flights to and from Argentina, Australia and
Uruguay, the country’s aeronautical authority said in an e-
mailed statement.  Julio Grondona, head of Argentina’s Soccer Association,
said that disruptions may postpone the July 1 start of the Copa
America competition.  “We are aware of everything and there’s no way all the
countries are ready to arrive to  Buenos Aires ,” Grondona said
in an interview today with Radio Diez.  Chile’s government is maintaining a state of alert in four
communities near the volcanic complex in the country’s south,
the state emergency service, known as Onemi, said in a  statement 
on its website last night. Tremors at the Cordon Caulle volcanic
complex have declined since yesterday, Chile’s geological and
mining authority, Sernageomin, said in
a statement on its website.  Cloud Dispersal  The length of the ash cloud has diminished, extending about
300 kilometers (186 miles) east before dispersing 1,000
kilometers east-northeast, Onemi said, citing satellite images
from the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration.  Qantas’s approach contrasted with Virgin Australia and  Air
New Zealand Ltd. (AIR) , which both operated full services today. Air
N.Z. operated flights at lower altitudes to avoid the ash cloud,
boosting fuel usage by about 10 percent, according to a
 statement  on its website.  Virgin Australia, a unit of  Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd. (VBA) , is
adjusting flight times and paths based on data from Australia’s
 Bureau of Meteorology  and the Volcanic Ash Advisory Centre.  “This means we are flying under or around and we are
certainly not flying through ash,” Colin Lippiatt, a Virgin
Australia spokesman, said by telephone today.  Tiger Airways Holding Ltd. expects to operate all
Australian flights tomorrow apart from one round-trip service to
Tasmania, it said in a  statement  on its website.  Qantas will halt all New Zealand flights through 2 p.m.
local time tomorrow and Tasmania services until 11 a.m., it
said.  Airlines are able to decide for themselves whether to
operate flights, provided they avoid the ash clouds,  Australia ’s
Civil Aviation Safety Authority said in a  statement  on its
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  