-- 
Quebec Backs Maple Group’s Bid for TMX Group Instead of LSE, Charest Says

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-06-14T19:02:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/quebec-backs-maple-group-s-bid-for-tmx-group-instead-of-lse-charest-says.html
Quebec  supports the bid for  TMX
Group Inc. (X)  from Canada’s Maple Group Acquisition Corp. over the
takeover by  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  because the local
offer gives more guarantees on preserving jobs in  Montreal ,
Premier Jean Charest said.  “We would much prefer to see ownership in the hands of the
Maple Group, if only because we would much rather see Canadian
ownership of our stock exchange,” Charest said today in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “What we are
first of all interested in is making sure that Montreal is able
to preserve that niche or expertise.”  Charest’s view is important because regulators in Quebec
and Ontario must approve the sale of the Toronto Stock Exchange
owner. The Maple bid has the backing of Quebec-based financial
groups including  National Bank of Canada (NA)  and the Caisse de Depot
et Placement du Quebec, the country’s biggest pension fund.  Ontario Finance Minister Dwight Duncan also criticized
LSE’s C$3.42 billion ($3.53 billion) bid for TMX, saying he
prefers to keep the exchange in Canadian hands. Both provincial
governments can provide input on their concerns during
regulatory hearings scheduled next month in Quebec and Ontario.  TMX, owner of the Toronto Stock Exchange and Montreal’s
derivatives market, backs LSE’s all-stock takeover worth about
C$46.05 a share. The company has rejected a C$3.58 billion cash-
and-stock bid from Maple Group, whose 13 backers include
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.  TMX fell 67 cents, or 1.5 percent, to C$43.52 at 2:55 p.m.
trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange  ‘Net Benefit’  Maple Group approached TMX on May 13 with a plan to buy the
Canadian bourse. TMX rejected the offer May 20, saying it wasn’t
better than its agreement with LSE, prompting Maple Group to
take its offer directly to TMX investors.  The LSE-TMX bid needs approval from Industry Minister
Christian Paradis, who is reviewing the transaction to determine
if the deal provides a “net benefit” to the country under the
Investment  Canada  Act.  TMX, formerly known as TSX Group Inc., agreed to give
Quebec’s financial markets regulator, Autorité des Marchés
Financiers, veto power over any sale when it bought Montreal
Exchange Inc. in 2008.  Charest said today he met with LSE Chief Executive Officer
 Xavier Rolet  after the London-based company announced its
proposed deal with TMX. He said while he felt at the time LSE
was sincere about maintaining jobs in Montreal, he is concerned
that the company will change plans.  Job Concerns  “They’ve been fairly positive, as firm as they could be in
regards to the derivatives operations in Montreal,” Charest
said. “We didn’t sense that there was a hesitation about it.
But things change.”  Canadian ownership of TMX would also likely safeguard jobs
for lawyers and accountants in Montreal and Toronto, he said.  “It has a lot of repercussions in regards to the economy
in Canada in terms of everything that’s around the stock
exchange,” he said. “It’s a pretty key component of our
economy.”  Rolet and TMX CEO Thomas Kloet are scheduled to speak to
the Board of Trade of Metropolitan Montreal tomorrow in an
attempt to win support from Quebec business people. Former
Montreal Exchange CEO Luc Bertrand, who has been acting as the
main spokesman for the Maple bid, is slated to speak to the same
audience June 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  New York  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  