-- 
Rand Gains Most This Month as China Industrial Output Buoys Stocks, Metals

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-06-14T15:41:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/rand-gains-most-this-month-as-china-growth-buoys-stocks-commodity-prices.html
The rand appreciated the most
against the dollar in a week as commodity prices and stocks
rallied after data showed  China’s economy  is still growing.  The rand strengthened as much as 1 percent to 6.722 per
dollar, the largest intraday gain since June 3, and traded 0.7
percent stronger at 6.7572 by 5:23 p.m. in Johannesburg. The
currency of Africa’s biggest economy slipped 0.2 percent to
9.7862 per euro.  South Africa ’s FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share index
gained for a second day, rising 0.2 percent, led by mining
companies including BHP Billiton Ltd. and  Anglo American Plc. (AGL)   The MSCI Emerging Markets Index snapped a four-day losing
streak and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials
rose for the first day in three after China’s industrial
production rose more than expected.  China  is the biggest buyer
of South African commodities, including coal and iron ore.  “Markets have been buoyed this morning by better-than-
expected industrial production data out of China, which has also
revived commodity prices,”  Michael Keenan , a Johannesburg-based
analyst at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in a research note.
“The rand could continue to ride the wave of positive global
sentiment,” he wrote, without providing an estimate.  The rand kept its gains after Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus said the central bank will continue to accumulate
foreign-currency reserves even after it posted a loss for the
second consecutive year. The central bank doesn’t target a
specific level for the rand, she told reporters in  Pretoria .  ‘Challenge’  Government bonds  declined for a fifth day, driving yields
to their highest level in almost three weeks, on concern rising
commodity prices will fuel inflation. Risks to South Africa’s
inflation rate are “on the upside”, Marcus said.  “Global commodity price increases have begun to pose risks
to the domestic inflation outlook,” Marcus said. “This is
expected to create a challenge for monetary policy going
forward.”  The 10.5 percent notes due 2026 fell 63 cents to 116.36
rand, driving the yield up seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 8.57 percent, the highest since May 18,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 6.25 percent
securities due 2036 slipped 54 cents to 74.55 rand, boosting the
yield seven basis points to 8.79 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  