-- 
Transatlantic Shareholder Davis May Oppose Allied Merger, Seek Alternative

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-06-14T20:54:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/transatlantic-shareholder-davis-may-oppose-allied-merger-seek-alternative.html
Transatlantic Holdings Inc. (TRH)  investor
Davis Selected Advisers LP said it may oppose the reinsurer’s
planned $3.2 billion merger with Allied World Assurance Company
Holdings AG and approach other companies about alternatives.  Davis, which holds the largest stake in Transatlantic,
“has serious concerns about the proposed transaction,”
according to a filing with regulators today. Davis “may oppose
the proposed transaction.” Tucson, Arizona-based Davis didn’t
specify its reservations.  The stock deal values New York-based Transatlantic at 79
percent of book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities,
said  Jay Gelb , a Barclays Plc analyst, in a note to clients
yesterday. The price may draw bids from other insurers and
reinsurers, he said. The deal requires approval from both
companies’ investors.  Davis may encourage the reinsurer’s management “to explore
other strategic options to maximize  shareholder value ,”
according to the filing. The investment group said it may have
conversations with New York-based Transatlantic and third
parties to maximize the company’s value.  Davis has a 24 percent stake. Its voting authority is
limited through an agreement with New York insurance regulators.
For stock beyond a 9.9 percent stake, Davis must vote
proportionate to other shareholders, according to the filing.  The merger is expected to be completed in the fourth
quarter, the companies have said. Jo Anne Barrameda, outside
spokeswoman for Transatlantic, had no immediate comment. Faye Cook of Allied didn’t immediately respond to a message.  Shares Gain  The deal values Transatlantic at $51.10 a share based on
Allied’s June 10 closing price. That’s 16 percent more than
Transatlantic’s close that day. Transatlantic rose $1.32, or 2.7
percent, to $49.51 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. Allied advanced 58 cents, or 1.1 percent, to
$56.02.  “Anybody else that would try to come in and break up this
transaction, whether it would be going after us or going after
Allied World, is probably going to have to deal with significant
overlap,” said Thomas Cholnoky, senior vice president of
 investor relations  with Transatlantic, in an interview
yesterday. “Overlap always leads to a lot of business erosion
as well as people erosion.”  Medical Malpractice  Transatlantic provides medical-malpractice protection and
guards corporate officers against lawsuits through so-called
directors-and-officers coverage. Zug, Switzerland-based Allied
offers professional-liability insurance. The combined company,
to be named TransAllied Group Holdings AG, may expand accident-
and-health coverage,  Standard & Poor’s  said yesterday.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Moelis & Co. were financial
advisers to Transatlantic, and Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP and
Lenz & Staehelin acted as U.S. and Swiss legal counsel.  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  acted as financial adviser to Allied, and Willkie Farr &
Gallagher LLP and  Baker & McKenzie  provided U.S. and Swiss legal
counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  