-- 
Treasuries Tumble on Retail Report; 10-Year Note Yield Increases to 3.10%

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-06-14T21:18:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/treasuries-hold-yesterday-s-fall-on-speculation-10-year-yields-are-too-low.html
Treasuries fell, pushing up 10-year
note yields to 3.10 percent for the first time this month, as
retail sales dropped in May less than analysts forecast and
producer prices rose more than projected.  The benchmark security tumbled the most since January on
eased concern the economy is slowing as well as speculation this
quarter’s rally in bonds may be hard to sustain. Bonds remained
lower after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
 U.S. debt  ceiling shouldn’t be used as a bargaining chip to
force budget cuts. Global stocks gained.  “Prices today have changed more than the facts,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It’s less clear it’s a domestic data
story than it is a technical test of the Treasury market and a
rebound or a bit of a bounce in the equity market.”  Yields on 10-year notes climbed 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 3.10 percent at 5:14 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data prices. The 3.125 percent
securities due in May 2021 slid 31/32, or $9.69 per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 7/32.  Using the debt limit deadline to force some “necessary and
difficult fiscal-policy adjustments” is “the wrong tool for
that important job,” Bernanke said in  Washington . “We should
avoid unnecessary actions or threats that risk shaking the
confidence of investors in the ability and willingness of the
U.S. government to pay its bills.”  Engineering a default as part of a negotiating strategy
“is a risk that doesn’t seem worth taking,” said Larry Dyer, a
U.S. interest-rate strategist in New York at HSBC Holdings Plc,
one of the 20 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  Highest Since January  The 10-year note yields increased as much as 12 basis
points, the most on an intraday basis since Jan. 20. Yields fell
last week to 2.92 percent, this year’s low. Two-year yields
climbed five basis points to 0.44 percent today. A drop of more
than a point in the 30-year bond pushed the yield to 4.30
percent.  A break in the 10-year note yield above the 3.01 percent
bull trend line signals a trend reversal,  William O’Donnell ,
head U.S. government bond strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in
Stamford, said in a research note to clients before the
government’s economic reports.  “The breakout is likely to be to higher rates,” O’Donnell
wrote. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc unit is a primary dealer.  Retail Sales  Government debt fell today after the Commerce Department
reported that retail sales dropped 0.2 percent in May after a
0.3 percent increase in the previous month. The median forecast
of 81 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.5
percent decrease.  Wholesale prices in the U.S. rose last month more than
forecast, led by higher costs for fuel and the fastest rise in
30 years for apparel and textiles.  The 0.2 percent increase in the producer-price index
reported by the Labor Department compares with the 0.1 percent
median forecast of economists. The so-called core measure, which
excludes volatile food and energy costs, increased 0.2 percent,
matching projections.  “It’s relatively bearish economic data for Treasuries
across the board,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S.
government trading in  New York  at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a
brokerage for institutional investors. “We sold off pretty
nicely.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.3 percent. The
MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 1 percent, and the Stoxx  Europe  600
Index advanced 0.8 percent.  Delay on  Greece   Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said an agreement
on a second bailout package for Greece may be delayed until
July. European leaders had planned to reach a consensus for
easing Europe’s biggest debt burden before a summit June 23-24.  U.S. debt slid earlier as China’s statistics bureau
reported that industrial production grew 13.3 percent last
month, compared with the 13.1 percent median forecast of
economists. Inflation accelerated to 5.5 percent, the fastest
pace in almost three years.  China  raised banks’ reserve
requirement ratio by 50 basis points, effective June 20.  Treasuries have rallied this quarter as weak U.S. economic
reports encouraged speculation that the central bank will keep
borrowing costs low to support the recovery.  Futures show the likelihood that policy makers will
increase the target rate for overnight lending between banks by
March 2012 has dropped to 24 percent, from 35 percent odds a
month ago. The central bank has held its benchmark in a range
from zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  The Fed purchased $3.2 billion of debt due from December
2012 to October 2013 today under the $600 billion second round
of quantitative easing expiring this month.  Commenting that “we’ve done enough” to support the  U.S.
economy , Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said yesterday he
won’t support a third round of quantitative easing and said the
central bank should focus on  price stability .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  