-- 
Record Corn Crop in India May Help Increase Exports, Limiting Global Costs

-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 
2011-06-14T06:43:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/record-corn-crop-in-india-may-help-increase-exports-capping-global-costs.html
Corn production in India,  Asia ’s
biggest grower after  China , may surge to a record for a second
year as high prices and adequate rains spur farmers to increase
planting, potentially boosting exports.  Output from the monsoon-sown crop may climb by as much as 7
percent from the all-time high of 15.9 million metric tons in
the year ending June, Gagan Gulati, head of the grains business
at  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) ’s Indian unit, said. A bigger harvest
may raise exports from about 2.4 million tons this season,  Atul Chaturvedi , chief executive officer at Adani Wilmar Ltd., the
nation’s biggest farm-goods trader, said without elaborating.  Increased Indian supplies may help cool a rally in corn,
which has gained 86 percent in the past year on signs world
inventories will drop, and cap global food costs that reached a
record in February. Supplies before the 2012 harvest from the
U.S., the largest producer, were estimated by the government at
the lowest since 1996, boosting expenses for meat producers such
as Tyson Foods Inc. and ethanol-makers including Poet LLC.  “Higher supplies from India will definitely cap global
prices,” Vijay Iyengar, managing director of Agrocorp
International, a Singapore-based commodity trading company, said
by phone. “There is a lot of demand for Indian corn in some
Asian countries.”  Livestock feed-makers in Malaysia, Thailand and  Indonesia 
are among the buyers of Indian corn as they seek substitutes to
supplies from the U.S. and  Latin America . Stockpiles around the
world will be 117.44 million tons before this year’s Northern
Hemisphere harvests, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said
last week. Those inventories will drop next year to 111.89
million tons, according to the U.S. agency.  Goldman’s Forecasts  That’s made Goldman Sachs Group Inc. see “upside risks”
to its corn-price forecasts, the bank said on June 9. Goldman
has a three-month forecast of $8 a bushel and a 12-month target
of $7. Futures may drop to $6.80 on the Chicago Board of Trade
in two to three months as a rebound in  Russia ’s wheat output
increases supplies of grains, Ravi Chandra, vice president of
research at TransGraph Consulting Pvt, said on June 9.  Corn for December delivery dropped as much as 1.1 percent
to $6.9675 a bushel in  Chicago  at 11:38 a.m. in New Delhi. The
commodity is used in cattle feed and industrial starch.  Food-price inflation and high unemployment helped spur
unrest in northern  Africa  and the  Middle East  this year. Energy
costs have surged amid fighting in  Libya , a member of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Staple foods
including corn will more than double in two decades unless
action is taken, according to Oxfam International.  Alleviate Tightness  “Any confirmation that any part of the world has
exportable surplus of feed grain, whether that be feed-wheat or
feed-corn, is certainly going to help alleviate the current
supply tightness,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at
Commonwealth Bank of  Australia , said on June 9.  India ’s monsoon-sown corn crop, which makes up more than 75
percent of the nation’s total output, is harvested in October.
The area sown with the crop this season will be more than the
7.6 million hectares (18.7 million acres) planted in 2010-2011,
Agriculture Secretary P.K. Basu said in an interview yesterday.  Total corn output may rise to 20.23 million tons in the
year to June 30, the farm ministry said April 6. The nation’s
agricultural year runs from July to June.  ‘Better Prospects’  India raised the minimum purchase price of corn to 980
rupees per 100 kilograms (220 pounds), up from 880 rupees a year
earlier, the government said this month. Corn-feed for immediate
delivery has climbed 25 percent in the past year on the National
Commodity & Derivatives Exchange in Mumbai, lagging behind the
86 percent surge in Chicago futures.  “Looking at the current international scenario, with the
U.S. now looking at a lower acreage under corn, the Indian corn
should be competitive in the international market,” Adani’s
Chaturvedi said. “Prospects for exports are much better.”  Warmer, drier weather in most of the U.S. last week allowed
farmers to complete about 99 percent of corn  planting  by June 12,
matching the average pace in the past five years, the USDA said
yesterday. About 69 percent of the corn was in good or excellent
condition, compared with an estimated 77 percent a year earlier.  India may not restrict corn exports as it is not a staple,
mainly used in making poultry feed and starch, he said. The
nation banned shipments for about three months in 2008 after
prices surged and inflation reached a 13-year high.  The government banned shipments of most grades of rice in
April 2008 and wheat in early 2007 to bolster domestic supplies.  Poultry feed-makers use about 10 million tons, while
starch-makers use as much as 2.5 million tons a year, Sain Dass,
president of Indian Maize Development Association, said on June
9. About 4 million tons is used as food in the country, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  