-- 
Republicans Hammer Obama on Economy, Jostle for Edge at Candidate Debate

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-06-14T17:05:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/republicans-seek-early-2012-edge-in-debate.html
Seven Republican presidential
candidates bashed President  Barack Obama ’s economic record at
the campaign season’s first major debate yesterday, spotlighting
the issue likely to define the 2012 race while dueling to
distinguish themselves in the party’s crowded field.  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney stressed his
opposition to the federal health-care law even as he defended a
similar state measure he helped to enact. Former  Minnesota 
Governor Tim Pawlenty defended his economic plan, which presumes
a high U.S. economic growth rate. U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota, who at the debate’s start was the only
participant yet to announce a presidential bid, used the
occasion to say that she would run.  There was little talk during the session in New Hampshire
of an issue that is gripping Washington: a forthcoming vote on
boosting the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling, a move that Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  says will be needed by Aug. 2 to
avoid an unprecedented default. Romney said the limit won’t be
raised unless Obama lays out a plan to balance the budget.
Bachmann noted that she has already voted once not to raise the
debt ceiling, during a mostly symbolic House vote May 31, “and
unless there are serious cuts, I can’t” support upping the cap.  Jobless Rate  As they came together in the state that typically hosts the
nation’s first presidential campaign primary, the Republicans
focused nearly all their fire on Obama, rather than on each
other. They blamed the president for a U.S. jobless rate that
was 9.1 percent last month, panned the health-care measure he
pushed through Congress as a burdensome mess, and criticized his
administration for imposing regulations that they said are
killing jobs.  “This president has failed, and he’s failed at a time when
the American people counted on him to create jobs and get the
economy growing,” said Romney, the front-runner among
Republican-leaning voters in several national polls. He came
into the debate expecting to be targeted by his rivals, but for
the most part they passed on opportunities to do so.  Pawlenty branded Obama “a declinist” in his economic
policies.  Bachmann said Republicans can tell a “great story” about
turning the economy around, while Obama’s “report card right
now has a big failing grade on it.”  ‘Defeatist Attitude’  Pawlenty, asked to defend a plan he released last week that
includes a goal of a 5 percent annual economic growth rate, said
“it’s a defeatist attitude” to say the nation can’t achieve
the figure -- one that has rarely been reached in the post-World
War II era.  “I don’t accept this notion that we’re going to be average
or anemic,” he said.  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia , seeking to
rebound from a mass resignation of top campaign staff members
last week, said the nation needs “a new president to end the
Obama depression.”  The debate, sponsored by the CNN cable network, local
television station WMUR and the New Hampshire Union Leader,
occurred as economic data suggest that the nation’s recovery
from the worst recession since the 1930s is faltering amid
continued unemployment -- giving Republicans a cudgel to wield
against Obama.  Payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight months in May,
according to Labor Department figures released June 3, while
other data show that manufacturing has slowed.  Pawlenty Demurs  Pawlenty declined during the debate to repeat a criticism
of Romney he debuted over the weekend, when he jabbed the former
 Massachusetts  governor on parallels between the state health-
care law he helped to enact and the similar national measure
Obama pushed through Congress last year, which Republicans
routinely deride as “Obamacare.” The president patterned his
plan “after Romneycare and basically made it Obamneycare,”
Pawlenty said June 12 on “Fox News Sunday.”  Still, Pawlenty contrasted his approach with Romney’s last
night, suggesting that his record positioned him better to
challenge Obama on health care.  “In order to prosecute the case against President Obama,
you have to be able to show you have a better plan and different
plan,” he said.  ‘Can’t Wait’  Romney said he would repeal the national measure if elected
president, adding, “I can’t wait to debate” Obama on the issue
in the general election.  Gingrich, who drew fire from other Republicans last month
for publicly criticizing the budget plan by Representative Paul Ryan of  Wisconsin  that would privatize Medicare, toiled to
explain his comment. He said that while he supports the Ryan
proposal -- which he had called “radical change” and “social
engineering” during a May appearance on NBC’s “Meet the
Press” -- he was saying that congressional Republicans
shouldn’t push it through, because it’s unpopular with voters.  “If you can’t convince the American people it’s a good
idea, maybe it’s not a good idea,” Gingrich said.  Pawlenty and three others on last night’s stage -- U.S.
Representative Ron Paul of  Texas , former Senator Rick Santorum
of  Pennsylvania , and Herman Cain, a former talk radio host and
onetime chief executive officer of Godfather’s Pizza -- had
previously squared off in a May 5 debate in  South Carolina .  Bachmann Announcement  Bachmann, who for months has been laying the groundwork for
a presidential run, announced her intent to follow through as
last night’s debate started. “I filed my paperwork to seek the
office of the presidency today,” she said. Her filing with the
 Federal Election Commission  allows Bachmann to begin fundraising
and other organizational efforts for a presidential bid. She
said she would “very soon” formally announce her candidacy.  Bachmann’s debate performance won praise from House Speaker
 John Boehner , an Ohio Republican. “I think she did a really good
job last night,” Boehner told reporters in  Washington  today. “I
think she’s a bright member of our caucus.”  In a nod to Paul, as well, Boehner said, “I think my
colleagues in the House that are in this race, I think they’ve
got as good a shot as anybody else.”  Defense policy was one of the few areas that exposed rifts
among the candidates.  Following the death of Osama bin Laden in a U.S. commando
raid in  Pakistan  last month, Romney said of  Afghanistan , “It’s
time for us to bring our troops home as soon as we possibly can,
consistent with the word that comes from our generals.”  Paul said U.S. troops should withdraw from that conflict
and all the others, regardless of military recommendations.  ‘Bring Them Home’  “I wouldn’t wait for my generals. I’m the commander in
chief. I make the decisions. I tell the generals what to do. And
I’d bring them home as quickly as possible,” Paul said, adding
that doing so “could save hundreds of billions of dollars.”  Invoking the Sept. 11 attacks, Pawlenty said he would
authorize bombing Yemen if doing so were necessary to guard
against terrorist assaults on the U.S.  “If there are individuals I have intelligence on or groups
in Yemen that present a threat to our security interests in that
region or to the United States of America, you can bet they’ll
hear from me, and we’ll continue those bombings,” he said.  The debate underscored the degree to which the grass-roots
anti-government refrain popular with Tea Party activists has had
an impact on the  Republican Party , long a traditional ally of
business.  “We need to get the government out of crony capitalism. We
have this alliance between big government, big unions and
certain big bailout businesses,” Pawlenty said. “We had
politicians in Congress trying to micromanage the housing
market, and they created a bubble and they created a mess.”  Blame the Fed  Paul, who has made his drive to abolish the  Federal Reserve 
his signature issue, said the central bank was directly
responsible for the nation’s economic woes. “We got in the
trouble because we had a financial bubble, and it’s caused by
the Federal Reserve,” he said.  Bachmann, casting herself as a candidate willing to take on
other Republicans when necessary, said the Tea Party movement
had been “wrongly and grossly portrayed” and was more diverse
than it has been depicted by the media.  “The Tea Party is really made up of disaffected Democrats,
independents, people who’ve never been political a day in their
life. People who are libertarians, Republicans,” she said.
“It’s a wide swath of America coming together.”  Social Issues  Differences were slight among the candidates on social
issues, with all opposing abortion rights and same-sex marriage.
Romney, who previously supported abortion rights, was asked to
defend his record on the issue.  In his failed 1994 bid to unseat Democratic Senator Edward M. Kennedy in Massachusetts, Romney declared that abortion
should be “safe and legal.” He has since said that he has a
different view.  “I believe people understand that I’m firmly pro-life,”
said Romney. The other candidates declined to attack his record
on that issue, declaring it “case closed.”  Notable by her absence from the stage was Sarah Palin, the
former Alaska governor and 2008 Republican vice presidential
nominee, who late last month conducted an attention-grabbing
family sightseeing bus tour of East Coast while insisting that
she hadn’t decided whether to run.  Also offstage yet inching closer to a presidential bid is
Jon Huntsman Jr., a former Utah governor who recently stepped
down as Obama’s ambassador to  China . In a weekend interview on
Bloomberg Television, he said he is “moving in that direction”
and has “got about all the boxes checked” toward officially
entering the race. Today, a Huntsman aide said the candidacy
announcement would occur June 21 in a state park in  New Jersey 
with the Statute of Liberty in the backgropund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Manchester,  New Hampshire , at
  or
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  