-- 
Republican Candidates Debate Who Dislikes Obama the Most: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-14T15:54:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/republican-presidential-hopefuls-debate-who-dislikes-obama-the-most-view.html
To the great disappointment of
journalists, there was no blood in the water after last night’s
first  New Hampshire  debate among the candidates for the
Republican presidential nomination. The candidates directed
almost all their fire at President  Barack Obama  and in
particular his health-care reform, invariably referred to as
“Obamacare.” Former  Minnesota  Governor  Tim Pawlenty  had
previously called it Obamneycare, in reference to a similar plan
enacted in  Massachusetts  under then Governor  Mitt Romney . But
Pawlenty turned down several increasingly explicit invitations
to repeat the jibe.  Not that the candidates didn’t compete or disagree on the
important issues facing our nation. They competed, for example,
on who had the most children. Former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum started the bidding with seven. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota countered with five -- and 23 foster kids.
Romney tried to pull a fast one by including daughters-in-law:
He’s got five, plus five sons and 16 grandchildren.
Representative Ron Paul of  Texas  topped them all by noting that,
as a doctor, he had delivered 4,000 children.  The candidates also competed on who would repeal Obama’s
health-care plan faster or more thoroughly. Bachmann, with
characteristic melodrama, declared, “I will not rest until I
repeal Obamacare. It’s a promise. Take it to the bank.” Romney,
eliding the similarities to the health-care plan he passed in
Massachusetts, said he would repeal Obamacare “just as Michele
indicated.” But he wouldn’t wait for repeal: On his first day in
office, he would grant waivers to all 50 states, he said.
Apparently it doesn’t matter how Congress would vote on the
matter.  Republican Backbone  They competed on their devotion to the Tea Party. A self-
identified mainstream Republican questioner, who asked if his
party would still have room for him, got nothing. Santorum said
the Tea Party is the “backbone to the  Republican party ,”
protecting it against deviationism. By contrast, Bachmann
offered the unreassuring reassurance that the Tea Party is just
“a wide swath of America coming together… who simply want to
take the country back.” (Back where? From whom?) The moderate
Republican seeking comfort that his party still loved him
wouldn’t have found it in this debate.  What was painfully on display last night was how far the
Republican Party has wandered from its internationalist
traditions into protectionism, isolationism and economic
chauvinism. Santorum talked about tax subsidies to save
manufacturing in the Rust Belt. Pawlenty said trade must be fair
as well as free -- classic code words for protectionism.  States’ Decision  Only Herman Cain, this year’s wild-card candidate and the former
chief executive officer of Godfather’s Pizza Inc., was willing
to say point-blank that a 5-year-old who shows up in an
emergency room should get treatment regardless of citizenship
status. But even Cain went on to say that the problem should be
turned over to the states. This is the Republican solution for
almost everything -- it’s Romney’s new position on health care,
for example. Surely, though, if anything is a national question,
it is the question of who gets to be a U.S. citizen.  Not one of the seven candidates on stage would defend the
war in  Afghanistan , started by Obama’s Republican predecessor,
George W. Bush, yet they also found it hard to articulate their
objections.  Ron Paul  tied up Afghanistan and immigration with a
great big bow: “We should think about protecting our borders,
rather than the borders between Iraq and Afghanistan. That
doesn’t make any sense to me.” Romney, perplexingly, said he
would “bring our troops home as soon as we possibly can,”
provided that he has assurance from the generals that the
Afghans are “able to defend themselves from the Taliban.”  Afghanistan Withdrawal  As with health care, it’s not terribly clear how Romneywar
is different from Obamawar. It appears, however, that all the
Republican candidates now oppose anything like “nation-building”
(that is, trying to leave behind something more than dead
bodies, broken equipment and simmering resentments when we
invade a country and then leave it).  George W. Bush  lambasted
the idea of nation-building when running against  Al Gore  in
2000. Then he adopted it with a vengeance in Iraq and
Afghanistan while in office. But nation-building appears to be
out of style again in the GOP.  Pawlenty was the candidate most in the spotlight; he seems
to be the media favorite and this was his first big opportunity
to introduce himself to a wider audience. His entry means that
Romney is no longer the only Republican candidate with the looks
and demeanor of a president. But Pawlenty is either deeply
conservative or pandering to the Tea Party element in his
positions on specific issues. If he is pandering, he is much
better at it than Romney, who always leaves the suspicion that
he is only acting the extremist and actually has reasonable,
mainstream views on most topics.  Nevertheless, Romney comes out of the first debate the
clear front-runner for the nomination. The Republican hunger for
a winner was vividly on display last night.  Unless one or more
of the other candidates takes him on, Romney will be hard to
stop.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 