-- 
Research Funding Grows Scarcer for Early-Stage Biotech Companies

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-06-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/research-funding-grows-scarcer-for-early-stage-biotech-companies.html
Scarce funding for early-stage
biotechnology companies that have yet to bring products to
market is straining research budgets, even as overall capital
raised by the industry increased, according to a report.  The top 20 percent of U.S. biotechnology companies raising
money garnered 82.6 percent of funding in 2010, while the bottom
20 percent drew 0.4 percent, according to a report released
today by London-based consulting firm Ernst & Young. Of the more
than 270 publicly traded biotechs in the U.S., only about 40 --
such as  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , Gilead Sciences Inc. and  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  --
are profitable, Bloomberg data show.  Biotechs in the U.S., Europe and  Canada  raised $25 billion
last year compared with $23.2 billion in 2009. Much of the
funding came as mature companies such as  Thousand Oaks ,
California-based Amgen, took on debt to pay for stock buybacks
or dividends, said Glen Giovannetti, of Ernst & Young’s global
biotech unit. Younger, unprofitable companies in the U.S. that
depend on funding from venture capital firms, stock sales and
partnerships saw available capital decline 21 percent in 2010.  “We’re calling that ‘innovation capital,’” Giovannetti
said in a telephone interview, referring to total capital raised
by the industry, excluding debt financing. “That’s the bread
and butter for pre-commercial companies. We’re still in a
restrictive environment.”  Biotechnology companies in the U.S.,  Europe , Canada and
 Australia  boosted profit 30 percent to $4.7 billion last year,
and large companies were able to increase research spending,
Giovannetti said. Companies without products on the market
didn’t fare as well, decreasing research spending about 1
percent, he said.  Milestone Payments  The capital squeeze for smaller biotechs is compounded by a
trend in payments from investors that are tied to meeting drug
development goals, the researchers said. Venture capital firms
have begun to use this approach to limit risk and maximize their
return on investment, which starts tracking when money is paid
out, Giovannetti said.  The use by venture capital firms of so-called contingency
payments mirrors an established system in biotech partnerships
and acquisitions. Sanofi,  France ’s largest drugmaker, used a
contingent value right, or CVR, in its purchase of  Genzyme Corp. (GENZ) 
earlier this year, giving shareholders of the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based biotech the possibility of receiving an
extra $14 a share if certain milestones were met.  “The industry even has a term for it: biobucks,”
Giovannetti and Gautam Jaggi, the report’s managing editor,
wrote. That refers to the up-front payment and the total
potential funding a company can receive upon reaching
milestones.  Up-Front Fees  “The total potential value stayed pretty steady” in 2010
partnerships, Giovannetti said, at more than $40 billion. “The
up-fronts, which is the real cash changing hands day one, have
decreased pretty significantly.”  In the last five years, the average up-front payment
received by a biotech company from a drug development partner
declined 55 percent. In 2010, up-front payments dropped 37
percent to $3.1 billion.  While payments geared to milestones create an incentive for
biotechnology companies to maintain focus on specific goals, the
“drip feeding” of funds can lead smaller firms to cut corners
in research and bear more risk in partnerships, Giovannetti
said.  Funding pressure, compounded by increased regulatory
scrutiny of new medicines, is forcing biotechnology companies to
increase efficiency and prove their products provide unique
benefit, Giovannetti said.  ‘Market Awareness’ Required  “This environment is going to require some new competence
in these companies,” he said. While the driver of success used
to be mainly scientific, it’s now more important to have
“market awareness of how a product fits into the competitive
landscape, what payers are doing, and how the product might fit
into the portfolio of a potential partner.”  Biotechnology companies may seek partnerships or mergers to
reduce overhead costs and share intellectual property, according
to the report. Still, the number of mergers and acquisitions
involving European or U.S. biotechs fell to 45 deals in 2010
from 58 in 2009, the report showed.  “Investors are requiring more proof before parting with
their money,” Giovannetti and Jaggi wrote. “While there is
little that companies can do up-front to demonstrate the
efficacy of their drug candidates, demonstrating that they
understand the market realities for their product and have
thought about the pharmacoeconomic issues will help increase the
comfort level of investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 