-- 
U.S. Economy: Retail Sales Fell Less Than Forecast in May

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-06-14T20:38:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/retail-sales-in-u-s-fell-in-may-as-demand-for-autos-slumped.html
Sales at U.S. retailers fell less
than projected in May, showing consumers were weathering
elevated gasoline costs.  The 0.2 percent decrease reported by the Commerce
Department in  Washington  today compared with the median forecast
for a 0.5 percent drop in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
Excluding the biggest slide in auto sales in more than a year,
purchases climbed 0.3 percent. Another report showed wholesale
costs rose last month.  Stocks rallied on bets household demand, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the  U.S. economy , will improve as energy
prices recede and the  auto industry  rebounds from the disaster
in  Japan . Chains including Limited Brands Inc. missed analysts’
estimates for May as fuel costs climbed to the highest level in
almost three years and unemployment topped 9 percent.  “We are seeing sustained economic growth at a moderate
pace,”  John Silvia , chief economist at  Wells Fargo Securities
LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , said in a television interview
on Bloomberg’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “What we see is
a consumer that continues to spend but is trying to economize.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.3 percent to
1,287.87 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York , boosted in part by a
report that industrial production in  China  rose more than
estimated in May.  Treasury securities  fell, pushing the yield on
the benchmark 10-year note up to 3.10 percent from 2.99 percent
late yesterday.  Wholesale Prices  The increase in wholesale costs last month was led by
higher prices for fuel and plastic products, according to the
Labor Department. The 0.2 percent increase in the producer-price
index followed a 0.8 percent advance in April.  Higher input prices mean companies like Under Armour Inc.
are passing on increased costs to consumers. At the same time,
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has reiterated that he
expects commodity costs to ease in coming months.  Economists’ estimates for retail sales in May ranged from
little change to a decline of 1.4 percent. Retail sales in April
rose 0.3 percent, less than the 0.5 percent gain previously
reported.  Six of 13 major categories showed declines last month, led
by a 2.9 percent drop at auto dealers and parts suppliers, the
biggest decrease since February 2010.  Auto Sales  That is consistent with industry data. Cars and light
trucks sold at an 11.8 million annual rate in May, the slowest
in eight months and down from a 13.1 million pace for April,
according to researcher Autodata Corp.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  reported a decline in U.S. deliveries from the
same month last year.  Some of the drop in demand last month reflected a shortage
of Japanese-made vehicles after the earthquake and tsunami
disrupted supplies. With inventories running low, companies
offered smaller discounts, which also deterred buyers.  “Our biggest concern of course is that the economy has
slowed a little bit from where we thought it would be,” Ford
Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally said in a June 7 Bloomberg
Television interview. “Having said that, most of the economists
believe that it’s going to start picking up in the second half
with everything that’s been put in place, both monetarily and
fiscally.”  Excluding autos, gasoline and building materials, which are
the figures used to calculate gross domestic product, sales
climbed 0.2 percent, the smallest gain this year, after a 0.3
percent increase the prior month. Filling station sales climbed
0.3 percent.  Best Buy  Best Buy Co., the world’s largest consumer electronics
retailer, today reported first-quarter profit that exceeded
analysts’ forecasts, helped by rising demand for smartphones.  The retail sales figures, which aren’t adjusted for
inflation, got a boost from receipts at service stations that
reflected higher gasoline costs. Regular fuel averaged $3.90 a
gallon in May, up 10 cents from April. The price reached $3.99
on May 4, the highest since July 2008, according to AAA, the
nation’s biggest auto group. The cost was down to $3.70 as of
yesterday.  Another report today showed that business inventories rose
in April as sales cooled. The 0.8 percent advance in stockpiles
followed a 1.3 percent increase in the prior month and compared
with a 0.9 percent rise that was the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, Commerce Department
figures showed today in Washington.  Hiring Slowdown  A slowdown in hiring was probably among the reasons at
least 15 retailers fell short of estimates for sales at stores
open at least a year.  Payrolls grew by 54,000 in May, the smallest gain in eight
months, and the jobless rate climbed to 9.1 percent, Labor
Department figures showed on June 3. Employment at retailers
fell for the second time in three months.  Limited, the Columbus, Ohio-based operator of Victoria’s
Secret, reported a 6 percent gain in May same-store sales from
the same month in 2010, missing the 7.4 percent average of
analysts’ projections compiled by Retail Metrics.  Consumer spending  will grow an average 2.95 percent annual
rate in the second half of 2011 after rising 2.1 percent this
quarter, according to the median forecast of economists polled
by Bloomberg News from June 1 to June 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  