-- 
Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Fell in May

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-06-14T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-dropped-as-auto-demand-slumped.html
Sales at U.S. retailers probably
fell in May as car purchases slumped and elevated gasoline costs
held back spending on other goods, economists said before a
report today.  The 0.5 percent drop in purchases, the first decline in 11
months, would follow a 0.5 percent gain in April, according to
the median forecast of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
A separate report may show inflation at the wholesale level
eased last month.  Limited Brands Inc. is among chains that missed analysts’
estimates for May as fuel prices climbed to the highest level in
almost three years and unemployment topped 9 percent. Ebbing
energy costs and a rebound in autos following the disaster in
Japan mean household purchases, which account for about 70
percent of the economy, may improve in the next six months.  “The story of May retail sales is the decline in auto
sales more than anything else,” said  Millan Mulraine , senior
U.S. strategist at TD Securities in  New York . “This soft patch
is likely to be transitory as the impact of high gasoline prices
and retrenchment in auto supplies fades.”  The Commerce Department’s sales figures are due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from a decline
of 1.4 percent to little change.  Also at 8:30 a.m., Labor Department figures may show the
 producer price index  rose 0.1 percent in May after a 0.8 percent
gain in April, according to the Bloomberg survey median. Core
prices, which exclude volatile food and fuel, may have climbed
0.2 percent following a 0.3 percent advance.  Auto Slump  Cars and light trucks sold at an 11.8 million annual rate
in May, the slowest in eight months and down from a 13.1 million
pace for April, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  reported a decline in U.S.
deliveries from the same month last year.  Some of the drop in demand last month reflected a shortage
of Japanese-made vehicles after the earthquake and tsunami
disrupted supplies. With inventories running low, companies
offered smaller discounts, which also deterred buyers.  “Our biggest concern of course is that the economy has
slowed a little bit from where we thought it would be,” Ford
Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally said in a June 7 Bloomberg
Television interview. “Having said that, most of the economists
believe that it’s going to start picking up in the second half
with everything that’s been put in place, both monetarily and
fiscally.”  The retail report may also show sales excluding automobiles
climbed 0.2 percent last month after rising 0.6 percent in
April, according to the survey median.  Retailer Shares  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index has
fallen 8.1 percent since the end of April, exceeding the 6.7
percent decrease in the broader  S&P 500 .  The retail sales figures, which aren’t adjusted for
inflation, probably reflected higher service-station receipts.
Regular fuel averaged $3.90 a gallon in May, up 10 cents from
April. The price reached $3.99 on May 4, the highest since July
2008, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest auto group. The
cost was down to $3.70 as of June 12.  Payrolls grew by 54,000 in May, the smallest gain in eight
months, and the jobless rate climbed to 9.1 percent, Labor
Department figures showed on June 3. Employment at retailers
fell for the second time in three months.  Less hiring was probably among the reasons at least 15
retailers fell short of estimates for sales at stores open a
year or more. Limited, the Columbus, Ohio-based operator of
Victoria’s Secret, reported a 6 percent gain in May same-store
sales from the same month in 2010, missing the 7.4 percent
average of analysts’ projections compiled by Retail Metrics.  Consumer spending  will grow at an average 2.95 percent
annual rate in the second half of 2011 after rising 2.1 percent
this quarter, according to the median forecast of economists
polled by Bloomberg News from June 1 to June 8.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  