-- 
Rio Approves $676 Million Spending to Speed Ore Expansion

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-06-15T01:49:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/rio-tinto-accelerates-pilbara-expansion-with-676-mln-investment.html
Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s second-
biggest mining company, approved the spending of $676 million to
speed the expansion of its iron ore operations in  Australia  by
six months to benefit from strong global demand.  The funds will be used to bring forward port and rail
engineering work, without increasing the overall cost of the
expansion program, London-based Rio said today in a statement.
The company’s share of the cost will be $350 million.  Rio, which has estimated the total development cost at
$14.8 billion, joins  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , Australia’s
third-largest iron ore exporter, in bringing forward expansions.
Steel demand in  China , the world’s biggest user, may rise by as
much as a quarter by 2015, a producer group said last month.  “It’s a strong endorsement to the state of the global
economy and particularly with the iron ore market at the
moment,” Cameron Peacock, a market analyst at IG Markets, said
by telephone from Melbourne today. “Some of these guys like Rio
and Fortescue are thinking, well, if prices are likely to stay
buoyant for a while longer then let’s try and bring our
expansion plan forward and they can capitalize on that.”  Rio’s shares were little changed at A$80.26 at 11:32 a.m.
Sydney time on the Australian stock exchange.  “The demand outlook continues to be strong with supply
lagging elsewhere in the industry,”  Sam Walsh , chief executive
officer of Rio Tinto’s iron ore unit, said in the statement.
“We are seeing new supplies proving slower to materialize than
predicted.”  The accelerated expansion will increase Rio’s annual output
capacity to 333 million metric tons in the first half of 2015,
the company said. The plan is part of the company’s five-year
expansion program that started in 2010. The annual production
capacity of the Pilbara operations is 225 million tons as of the
end of the first quarter, Rio said.  The cost estimate could rise to $17.5 billion, or $155 a
ton, because of gains in the Australian dollar, Citigroup Inc.
said yesterday in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in  Melbourne  at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  