-- 
Romney and Bachmann Debate Hits, Pawlenty ‘Whiff’ Shape Republican Race

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-06-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/romney-and-bachmann-gains-pawlenty-whiff-in-debate-shape-race.html
U.S. Representative Michele Bachmann’s scene-stealing debut and former  Massachusetts 
Governor Mitt Romney’s gaffe-free debate performance boosted
their candidacies for the Republican presidential nomination in
ways that could reshuffle the race, party strategists and
activists said yesterday.  Romney, who came to the June 13 debate in Manchester, New
Hampshire, as the front-runner in several public opinion polls,
did nothing to undermine his position and benefited from a
reluctance among the six other participants to attack him.
Bachmann, who made news at the start of the event by making her
candidacy official, proceeded to set herself apart as a
contender on Romney’s right flank, willing to take on
establishment Republicans as well as President  Barack Obama .  Her emergence could spell trouble for former Minnesota
Governor  Tim Pawlenty , who is trying to style himself as the
conservative alternative to Romney. He came out of the two-hour
debate with poor grades from analysts, in part because he
repeatedly declined to reprise a derogatory term he coined over
the weekend to criticize Romney’s record on health care.  “Bachmann and Romney helped themselves the most last
night,” Fergus Cullen, a consultant and former chairman of the
New Hampshire  Republican Party , said yesterday. Others merely
“treaded water,” while Pawlenty may have harmed himself with
what Cullen called “the whiff.”  Ignoring ‘Obamneycare’  In a June 12 interview on “Fox News Sunday,” Pawlenty
coined the word “Obamneycare” as a way to tie the
Massachusetts health-care measure Romney helped to enact in 2006
with the federal law Obama pushed through Congress last year.
During the debate, even when invited several times to directly
criticize Romney on the issue, he steered clear of the term,
asserting that the comment was merely meant to note that Obama
has said he looked to the Massachusetts statute as a model.  “It was not the ‘I’m paying for this microphone,’ take-
charge sort of moment that suggests strength, so that was
surprising. It was a missed opportunity,” Cullen said,
referring to a galvanizing moment in the 1980  New Hampshire 
Republican primary campaign when  Ronald Reagan  sparred with a
debate moderator.  Pawlenty now must compete in a “very risky” contest with
Bachmann, Cullen said, in a sort of “primary within a primary”
to emerge as Romney’s principal challenger. That dynamic is
likely to shape an August straw poll of  Republicans in Iowa  that
Romney has said he plans to skip.  Abortion Issue  Romney, casting himself as a national candidate during his
second presidential run, also escaped the debate without direct
criticism on an issue that had plagued him in his 2008 campaign
-- his changed position on abortion rights.  He supported abortion rights during his failed 1994 bid to
unseat Democratic Senator Edward M. Kennedy in Massachusetts,
and has since said that he has a different view.  “I believe people understand that I’m firmly pro-life,”
Romney said during the debate. The other candidates took him at
his word, declaring the “case closed” on the issue.  Romney has “been consistently the front-runner in our
polling, and nobody laid a glove on him -- nobody even went
after him,” said University of New Hampshire political
scientist  Andrew Smith . Pawlenty, he added, raised questions
about his readiness for the presidency in seeming to back away
from his “Obamneycare” critique.  ‘Looking Weak’  “If you’re going to go after one of your fellow candidates
publicly like he did with that comment, you have to be able to
stand behind it,” Smith said. “Otherwise you look weak, and he
came out looking weak.”  Pawlenty made the rounds of television news shows yesterday
to defend his performance, denying that he had missed a chance
to draw a contrast with Romney.  “The bottom line is, when you are running against the
president of the  United States , you’re going to have to
distinguish yourself, your plans and your ideas. I’m going to be
able to do that because I took a different direction in
 Minnesota ,” Pawlenty said on the Fox News Channel. “But there
wasn’t a difference between what I said on Sunday and what I
said last night.”  Romney, campaigning in Derry, New Hampshire, where he
pressed his economic argument against Obama, said all the
Republicans did well at the forum, appropriately pulling their
punches toward each other to focus on the current White House
occupant.  Everyone Was ‘Lifted’  “We were respectful of one another and we aimed our
rhetoric at the president, where it was deserved,” he told
reporters outside a feed and supply shop. “I thought everybody
was actually lifted a bit by the experience.”  Asked specifically about Bachmann, Romney said, “I thought
she did a very nice job.”  At a lunch gathering among Republicans yesterday in
Manchester, the talk was mostly about the Minnesota
congresswoman, who cut a distinct figure on stage, said Jeffrey
Frost, the city’s party chairman.  “Just about everybody thought that  Michele Bachmann  got
the most mileage out of it,” he said. “She handled herself
well; she announced on the stage, which was pretty dramatic; she
came across to a lot of people as ‘this is somebody who has
ability to do well.’”  Romney “didn’t hurt himself,” said Frost, adding that
while Pawlenty could have dealt with the “Obamneycare”
question better, overall “he handled himself well.”  Most voters have yet to focus on the candidates, and the
televised debate wasn’t likely to change that.  First Impressions  “The voters aren’t paying much attention yet. They’re not
likely to really focus on who they’re actually going to support
for another five or six months,” Smith said. Yet the debate was
“important in that it introduced the candidates to people
around the country who are starting to form impressions, and
those first impressions can be important in shaping the race,”
he said.  Some candidates notable for their absence from the debate
could change those contours in the days to come. Just hours
after the gathering ended, Jon Huntsman Jr., the former Utah
governor and Obama administration envoy to  China , said he would
announce his presidential bid June 21.  Other potential late entrants to the field include Governor
 Rick Perry  of  Texas  and former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, the
party’s 2008 vice presidential nominee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  