-- 
Rosneft Fails to End Yukos’s U.K. Case Seeking $160 Million

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-14T15:52:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/rosneft-loses-bid-to-end-u-k-yukos-case-seeking-160-million.html
The Dutch remnant of Yukos Oil Co.
won court permission to question the independence of Russia’s
judicial system in a U.K. case against  OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  over $160
million in interest on arbitration awards.  Britain’s Act of State, which blocks English judges from
questioning the legitimacy of domestic actions by “friendly”
governments, doesn’t apply to the case, in which Yukos Capital
relies on findings that a Russian court unfairly favored Rosneft
in a dispute over $425 million in loans, Justice Nicholas Hamblen ruled today at the  High Court  in London.  “There is no rule against passing judgment on the
judiciary of a foreign country,” Hamblen said in ruling.
“Allegations of systemic partiality or corruption are not
subject to the Act of State.”  Yukos Capital sued government-controlled Rosneft in the
U.K. over claims a Russian tribunal annulled $425 million in
arbitration awards in 2006 due to political interference.
Moscow-based Rosneft paid the award in August, after asset
freezing orders were issued against it in Britain, the
Netherlands, New York, Ireland and the British dependency of
 Jersey . Yukos is now seeking interest on the sum.  Rosneft’s lawyer, Anthony Trace, today said that Hamblen
had erred in his ruling and asked for permission to appeal.  Most of Yukos’s assets were sold to Rosneft after the
company was bankrupted in 2004 and liquidated by then-President
 Vladimir Putin ’s government to recover some of the more than $30
billion in taxes Yukos Oil was said to owe. Amsterdam-based
Yukos Capital claims Russia coordinated with the courts to
illegally nationalize Yukos.  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , the former chief executive officer of
Yukos Oil and once Russia’s richest man, was jailed in 2003
while challenging Putin politically. Last year, he was sentenced
to a further six years in prison after a Moscow court found him
guilty of  money laundering  and embezzlement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story. 