-- 
Russian Ministry Proposes Doubling Gas Tax for Gazprom Next Year

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-06-14T15:46:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/russian-ministry-proposes-gas-tax-rates-for-gazprom-ifx-says.html
Russia’s  Finance Ministry  proposed
doubling the mineral extraction tax next year for OAO Gazprom,
the gas export and pipeline monopoly, with further increases to
follow as the government seeks to boost budget revenue.  Gazprom may pay 480 rubles ($17.20) per 1,000 cubic meters
of gas next year, Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Shatalov said
in Moscow today, in comments confirmed by the ministry’s press
service. That compares with a 61 percent increase to 237 rubles
this year, the first jump in the  tax rate  in five years.  State-controlled Gazprom may face a tax burden of as much
as 505 billion rubles in the next three years, Finance Minister
Alexei Kudrin said on June 1. The ministry had proposed raising
the tax for the gas company to as much as 536 rubles per 1,000
cubic meters next year.  Russia  relies on oil and gas for most of
its budget revenue.  The Moscow-based gas producer has said 2012 and 2013 may be
two of the most capital intensive years as it develops remote
fields in harsh climatic and geological conditions to compensate
for declines at western Siberian fields. Investments this year
may reach 1.18 trillion rubles, higher than initially planned,
and remain at that level for the next two years, Gazprom Deputy
Chief Executive Officer Alexander Ananenkov said on June 1.  ‘Legal Challenges’  The mineral extraction rate for Gazprom may rise to 600
rubles per 1,000 cubic meters of gas extracted in 2013 and to
635 rubles in 2014, Shatalov said. The figures announced by
Shatalov today are preliminary, the Finance Ministry’s press
service said. A final decision may come in 10 days, Interfax
reported earlier, citing Shatalov.  “We regard Shatalov’s comments as yet another iteration in
the government’s decision-making process, but by no means the
final outcome,”  Luis Saenz , the London-based director of
international sales at Otkritie Securities Ltd., said in an e-
mailed note today. “Notwithstanding the legal challenges
involved in differentiating tax between Gazprom and non-Gazprom
producing subsidiaries, we continue to expect the government
will make a balanced decision on 2012 gas tariffs and taxes.”  The Finance Ministry doesn’t plan to raise next year’s
rates for independent gas producers, such as OAO Novatek, Kudrin
said on June 1. Producers other than Gazprom will pay the
previously approved rates, increased by about 6 percent, Saenz
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  