-- 
Saatchi Still Seeking Taker for Gallery, Year After U.K. Offer

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-06-14T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/saatchi-seeks-takers-for-gallery-41-million-art-year-after-u-k-offer.html
Charles Saatchi , the British
collector who last July offered to donate his  London gallery  and
more than 25 million pounds ($41 million) worth of art to the
nation, has yet to reach agreement on who they will go to.  Talks with  Arts Council  England -- the organization that
funds cultural bodies on the government’s behalf -- ended last
year after Saatchi’s representatives decided not to work with
the Arts Council. The Saatchi Gallery said it has since held
discussions with other unspecified organizations.  “We are still talking to many potential recipients for the
gift, but nothing is confirmed as yet,” Saatchi Gallery
Associate Director Rebecca Wilson said in an e-mailed response
to questions. She would not elaborate. Saatchi wasn’t available
for comment, Wilson said yesterday.  Saatchi, 68, co-founder of the Saatchi & Saatchi
advertising agency, is an active art buyer and seller who backed
the “Young British Artists” group that included  Damien Hirst 
and Tracey Emin. On July 1, 2010, he said he was giving away
works including Emin’s signature “My Bed” (1998) and Jake &
Dinos Chapman’s “Tragic Anatomies” (1996).  The works would be government-owned, he said, and available
to the public at no cost to the taxpayer. A foundation would be
set up to run the gallery and would have the right to buy and
sell art. Running costs would be met through sponsorship,
catering, retailing and hall hire, he said.  When the announcement was made, Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  immediately thanked Saatchi for “an incredible act of
generosity.”  Yet in the last 11 months, no government department or
institution has received the works.  Talks Offer  “Ministers expressed their gratitude when Mr. Saatchi made
his very generous offer,” Simon Oliver, a spokesman for Hunt’s
Department for Culture, Media and Sport, said in a June 13
telephone interview. “We understand that Mr. Saatchi is now
considering how he wants to move forward, and we are very happy
to facilitate any discussions.”  Saatchi’s talks with  Arts Council England  ended in late
July 2010 because “we decided that we weren’t comfortable with
the idea of working with them,” Saatchi’s adviser Wilson said
in September 2010.  Last week, Arts Council Chief Executive Alan Davey
indicated that he was open to further dialogue.  “We had conversations, and we said that we’d be happy to
restart those conversations in the future, depending on the
donor’s wishes,” Davey said in an interview.  “One of the key elements of the discussion was about the
saleable part of the collection,” Davey said. “That would
require a lot more thrashing through.”  Right to Sell  The Arts Council manages the largest national loan
collection of modern British and contemporary art, with more
than 7,500 works. Those works -- which are given by artists or
bought at a reduced price -- cannot be sold. One of the
conditions of Saatchi’s offer is his right to sell the works.  Saatchi’s 70,000-square-feet (6,503-square-meter) building
in  London ’s affluent Chelsea district is rented. Its owner is
the Cadogan Estate, which, together with Saatchi himself, spent
more than 20 million pounds redeveloping it.  In a separate development, the Saatchi Gallery has lost the
sponsor of its free-admission policy: Auction house  Phillips de
Pury & Co. , which had supported the gallery from its October
2008 opening, pulled out in April this year, saying in an e-
mailed news release that it wished to focus on its own spaces in
London and  New York .  The gallery now has the support of  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , as well as the patronage of
Chanel SA, Wilson said.  “This, along with the support of our other sponsors, means
that the Saatchi Gallery will continue to be free for all our
exhibitions,” Wilson said.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 