-- 
Salesman in Gryphon ‘Boiler Room’ Scheme Pleads Guilty After Trial Begins

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-06-14T18:01:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/salesman-in-gryphon-boiler-room-scheme-pleads-guilty-after-trial-begins.html
A  New York  man pleaded guilty to his
role in the Gryphon Holdings Inc. “boiler room” scheme, the
last of 18 defendants to do so, the day after his trial began.  Baldwin Anderson, 57, a former salesman for Gryphon,
pleaded guilty today before U.S. District Judge Jack Weinstein
in Brooklyn, New York, and was taken into custody. Anderson and
Gryphon misled investors into paying for phony stock tips and
investment advice, defrauding them of $20 million, prosecutors
charged.  “From April 2007 until April 2010 I participated in the
scheme to defraud Gryphon clients,” Anderson told the judge.  Kenneth Marsh, 44, who ran Gryphon, was the last defendant
before Anderson to plead guilty, on April 14. He’s scheduled to
be sentenced July 12. Gryphon told victims its office was on
 Wall Street  or even in the New York Stock Exchange when it was
in a strip mall in the New York borough of  Staten Island ,
according to Anderson’s indictment. Anderson told Weinstein he
was paid $1.1 million while working at Gryphon.  “He took a long, hard look at the situation and decided
this was the right thing to do,” Michael Padden, Anderson’s
lawyer, said after the hearing.  Anderson, a Jamaican citizen who lived on Staten Island,
pleaded guilty to one count of  wire fraud  and securities fraud
conspiracy. Federal guidelines call for a prison sentence of up
to 21 years and 10 months, Assistant U.S. Attorney Roger
Burlingame said at the hearing.  Sentencing Next Month  Weinstein set sentencing for July 29.  Anderson was also charged with one count of  securities
fraud  and 27 counts of wire fraud.  “The defendant worked in what is known as a boiler room,”
Burlingame told jurors in his opening statement yesterday. “The
evidence is going to show that the defendant lied about what
Gryphon was and who worked there.”  Gryphon charged clients as little as $99 and as much as
$250,000 for access to its investment recommendations, according
a related lawsuit by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The company falsely claimed to have a trading desk,
a $1.4 billion hedge fund and an endorsement from  George Soros ,
the billionaire hedge-fund manager, the government said.  Before joining Gryphon, Anderson sold beds made by
Craftmatic Industries Inc., he told Weinstein today.  “You gotta do those trades, that’s how you’re gonna pay
your balance and put money in your pocket,” Anderson said in
pitching a $25,000 Gryphon advisory plan to a client who already
owed Gryphon for previous services, according to the SEC
complaint.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Marsh, 10-cr-00480, and the
SEC case is SEC v. Gryphon Holdings Inc., 10-cv-01742, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York,
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  