-- 
Samsung, Novartis, Apple, Microsoft: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-06-14T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/samsung-novartis-apple-liberty-media-intellectual-property.html
A Samsung Electronics Co. affiliate
filed a patent-infringement lawsuit in  South Korea  against
 Siemens AG (SIE) ’s Osram unit over light-emitting diode technology.  Osram Korea Co. and two Korean sales agents of the German
lighting maker were sued, Samsung LED Co. said in a statement on
its website yesterday. The eight patents related to the suit
include LED and packaging technology used in lighting such as
headlights, Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung LED said.  The lawsuits, filed with the Seoul Central District Court
on June 10, were in response to Osram’s patent infringement
complaints in the U.S. and  Germany  against Samsung related to
LED technology, the Samsung unit said. The Korean company said
June 8 it never infringed Osram’s LED lighting patents. Osram
also filed complaints against  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  over the LED
technology used in televisions and lighting products.  “Osram is well prepared regarding possible steps by
Samsung and is therefore relaxed about the move by the counter
claimant,” the Siemens unit said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “Osram regards Samsung’s move as a typical
counterattack of a defendant.”  Samsung LED is seeking a halt to the unauthorized use of
its  intellectual property  and monetary damages, it said in
yesterday’s statement, without specifying an amount. The Korean
company said it plans to file more lawsuits against Osram in the
U.S. and other overseas markets as “soon as possible.”  Samsung LED has about 700 U.S. patents and patent
applications and about 2,000 Korean patents and applications,
according to the statement.  Novartis’s Alcon Sues Watson to Block Copy of Pink Eye Treatment  Novartis AG (NVS) ’s Alcon unit sued  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) 
to prevent U.S. sales of a generic version of the drug Pataday
until 2024.  Pataday is used to treat the eye infection conjunctivitis,
also known as “pink eye.”  Watson is seeking Food and Drug Administration approval to
sell a copy of Pataday, an antihistamine known as olopatadine
hydrochloride, according to a June 9 complaint filed by Alcon in
federal court in Indianapolis. Alcon contends the copy would
infringe three patents that expire in 2015, 2022 and 2024.  In dispute are patents 5,641,805, 6,995,186 B2 and
7,401,609 B2.  Novartis, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , said in April that
sales of Pataday and a related drug, Patanol, contributed to a
31 percent increase in sales of allergy products in the first
quarter. In May Alcon won a court ruling that upheld the 2015
patent in a case against Toronto-based Apotex Inc. over Patanol.  In the lawsuit against Corona, California-based Watson,
Alcon and Tokyo-based partner Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co. are seeking
a court order that would prevent the FDA from approving Watson’s
application until all three patents expire. Such lawsuits are
common to clarify  patent rights  before the generic drug enters
the market.  The case is Alcon Research Ltd. v. Watson Laboratories
Inc., 11cv786, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
 Indiana  (Indianapolis).  Microsoft Objects to Nortel’s Proposed Patent Sale to Google  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  objected to  Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ) ’s
proposed bankruptcy sale of more than 6,000 patents, telling a
judge the deal could give the proposed buyer,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  an
unfair competitive advantage.  Microsoft joined computer maker  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,
smartphone maker  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , and other technology companies in
filing objections to the proposed auction of the patent
portfolio, in which Google is the lead bidder.  Microsoft and HP said the terms of the proposed sale should
be modified to protect the rights of license holders and
standard-setting bodies.  Without changes, the proposed sale “would result in
considerable disruption in the development and enhancement of
various existing technologies and give the prospective purchaser
an unfair competitive advantage,” Microsoft said yesterday in
court papers filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,
 Delaware .  Nortel, a Canadian phone-equipment maker that filed for
bankruptcy in January 2009, agreed to sell the patents to Google
for $900 million unless a competitor bids more at the auction,
scheduled for later this month. Yesterday was the deadline for
bids to be submitted.  The portfolio will give the winning bidder rights to
control and license wireless-video technologies and others that
may be valuable for future generations of smartphones such as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and RIM’s BlackBerry.  Whoever wins the auction must sign a purchase contract that
clarifies the rights to use the patents Nortel made with
companies before it went bankrupt, Microsoft, HP and Nokia said
in court papers they filed separately.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Helmer Sued Over Its Trademark, Trade Dress Infringement Claims  Helmer Inc., a maker of temperature-control products used
for the health-care industry, was sued by a competitor over
trademarks and trade dress for blood plasma thawers.  Boekel Industries Inc. of Feasterville, Pennsylvania, which
does business as  Boekel Scientific , asked a federal court in
Philadelphia to declare it doesn’t infringe Helmer’s trademark
and related rights.  Attached to the June 10 complaint is a letter sent June 1
by counsel for Helmer, alleging Boeckel’s Scientific Plasma
Thawer 301000 is a “slavish copy” of a product made by
Noblesville, Indiana-based Helmer.  The letter, signed by Dwight D. Lueck of Indianapolis-based
Barnes & Thornburg LLP, also complains that the Boeckel’s
product is promoted “using a number of the same trademarked
phrases as Helmer.”  Boekel argued in the complaint that the design of the
Helmer product is generic and functional, lacking “any legally
enforceable trade dress rights.”  The  Pennsylvania  company said that the so-called
“trademarked phrases” it uses are “commonly used in the
industry and are generic to laboratory equipment.” Their use by
Boekel “will not cause confusion,” the company said in its
pleadings.  Boekel asked the court to declare that Helmer has neither
trade dress rights in its blood plasma thawer nor legally
enforceable trademark rights in the phrases “rapid thaw times
baskets,” “quick connect drain systems” and “optimal heat
transfer with rapid, safe thawing.”  Additionally, the company seeks a declaration it isn’t
infringing, and an order for the cancellation of Helmer’s
application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to
register “quickthaw” as a trademark. Boekel also asked for
awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  Boekel is represented by Robert R. Baron J. and Marc S.
Segal of Philadelphia’s Ballard Spahr LLP.  The case is Boekel Industries Inc. v. Halmer Inc., 2:11-cv-
03774-GP, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  Apple Sued for Infringement by Arizona Company Over iCLoud Mark  Apple Inc. was sued for trademark infringement by  ICloud
Communications LLC  three days after the Cupertino, California-
based company introduced its iCloud service.  In the complaint filed June 9 in federal court in Phoenix,
ICloud said it has used the name since 2005 and has spent “in
excess of several hundreds of thousands of dollars” advertising
its name. It promotes its cloud-computing services through its
website, www.geticloud.com.  ICloud, based in Phoenix, objects to Apple’s use of the
name for its new platform, and for several applications the
company filed to register iCloud as a trademark with the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office. The goods and services for which
Apple has said it intends to use the iCLoud mark “are identical
to or closely related to the goods and services that have been
offered by ICloud Communications under the iCloud marks since
its formation in 2005, the company said in its complaint.  The Arizona company noted that Apple has in the past been
sued “for its use of various marks employing the ‘I’ prefix in
connection with various wireless technology goods and
services.” The complaint mentioned a 2007 trademark case in
which Cisco Systems Inc. sued Apple over its use of “iPhone.”
That dispute was settled in February 2007 in an agreement in
which each company could use the name.  ICloud said it fears that the large amount of advertising
and publicity related to Apple’s iCloud service will mean that
the term will no longer be associated with the Arizona company
in the mind of the public.  It asked the court to bar Apple’s use of iCloud, and seeks
an order for the destruction of all Apple promotional materials
using the mark. Additionally, it asked for awards of money
damages, including profits derived from the alleged
infringement, attorney fees, and litigation costs. It also asked
to be transferred Apple’s iCloud.com domain name.  Apple didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment.  The Arizona company is represented by  Robert J. Itri  and
 Charles E. Runyan  of  Gallagher & Kennedy PA  of Phoenix.  The case is ICloud Communications LLC v. Apple In, 2:11-cv-
01158-DCG, U.S. District Court, District of Arizona.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Liberty Media Sues Virginia Members of Two Bit-Torrent Swarms  Liberty Media Holdings LLC, a provider of adult-themed
videos, filed two new copyright infringement cases in federal
court in Richmond, Virginia.  The suits relate to unauthorized downloading of Liberty’s
Corbin Fisher unit’s “Down on the Farm” film. The defendants
in the case are Virginia residents who are members of a so-
called “swarm” that use the Bit Torrent protocol to download
and share the film. Liberty specifically identified them by a
file-identifier number known as a hash.  The particular swarm is associated with a specific 37-
character number, according to court papers. Each of the two
complaints named a swarm identified by a different hash.  Liberty said in its court papers that it believes it will
be able to identify each defendant by proper name during the
legal process. In one complaint, Liberty also lists two
defendants identified only by their numeric Internet Protocol
addresses, while in the second, Liberty lists 22 unnamed
defendants, also identified by Internet Protocol addresses.  Liberty began suing defendants associated with a specific
hash number in March.  The company accused the defendants of conspiracy in
addition to copyright infringement. It asked the court to order
them to stop their infringement and to destroy any unauthorized
copies they possess of Liberty’s content.  Additionally, Liberty seeks damages of as much as $150,000
per defendant, and awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  The company is represented by  Kurt D. Brickman  of  Blackburn
Conte Schilling & Click PC  of Richmond.  One case is Liberty Media Holdings LLC v. Virginia Members
of Swarm Sharing Hash File AE340D0560129AFEE8D78CE07F2394CB5BC9,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).
The other case is Liberty Media Holdings LLC v. Virginia Members
of Swarm Sharing Hash File A3E6F65F2E3D672400A590864ED5566A088,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Nixon Peabody Expands IP Practice with Hire from Mintz Levin  Nixon Peabody LLP hired Carol H. Peters for its IP
practice, the Rochester, New York-based firm said in a
 statement .  Peters, a trademark and patent specialist, joins from
 Boston ’s Mintz Levin Cohn Ferris Glovsky & Popeo PC.  She has done trademark acquisition work, and trademark, and
patent portfolio management and enforcement. She has appeared
before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office’s Trademark Trial
and Appeal Board.  Peters has an undergraduate degree in biology from the
University of  Massachusetts  and a law degree from Suffolk
University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 