-- 
Sara Lee Aims to Surpass Kraft in Coffee Sales, Bennink Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-06-14T20:28:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/sara-lee-aims-to-overtake-kraft-in-coffee-sales-bennink-says.html
Sara Lee Corp. (SLE)  Executive Chairman
Jan Bennink says the maker of Senseo and Douwe Egberts coffee
aims to become the world’s second-biggest seller of the
beverage, leapfrogging rival  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)   The company may seek to expand through acquisitions,
Bennink, 55, said in an interview. He became chairman in January
after  Downers Grove , Illinois-based Sara Lee disclosed plans to
split the meat business from coffee.  “Can we be the biggest? No. Number two? Yes,” Bennink
said, declining to give a time frame for that goal. “We need
the right investments and the right vision.”  To do that, Sara Lee will have to more than double its
share of the global coffee market, according to data tracker
Euromonitor International.  Nestle SA (NESN)  is the largest coffee
seller in the world. Bennink, a Dutchman who ran Royal Numico NV
before selling the baby-food maker to  Danone (BN)  SA in 2007, plans
to focus on Sara Lee’s Senseo single-cup coffee machine, which
debuted a decade ago.  The foodmaker decided to split itself up after rebuffing
advances from suitors including Apollo Global Management LP,  JBS
SA (JBSS3)  and KKR & Co. Bennink told investors today that Sara Lee will
spin off the coffee business, reversing an earlier plan to do so
with the meat operations. Bennink said that business may not
retain the Sara Lee name after the split, contrary to its
previous statements on Jan. 28, the day of the announcement.  Logical Targets  There are “logical” purchases for Sara Lee’s coffee
operations, Bennink said in the June 9 interview, without
mentioning specific targets. Sara Lee had $2.13 billion in cash
and cash equivalents as of April 2. Possible targets include
Cafe Bom Dia Ltda of  Brazil  and Swiss-based Ethical Coffee Co.,
both closely held, said John Baumgartner, an analyst at Telsey
Advisory Group in New York. Mike Cummins, a spokesman for Sara
Lee, declined to comment on possible targets.  Bennink also has formed a team of Senseo managers dedicated
to pushing out new flavors and models. Last year, the company
debuted a lower-priced version of the Senseo machine, made by
Hamilton Beach Brands Inc., a unit of NACCO Industries Inc. The
first Senseo is made by a unit of Royal Philips Electronics N.V.  “Jan is the first person who has actually talked about
shaking up Senseo -- that was a pleasant surprise for me,” said
Baumgartner. “If he’s going to pound the table to get people
fired up for new innovations, that’s a good thing.”  Switzerland ’s Nestle leads in fresh and instant coffee
sales with 22 percent of the global market, according to
Euromonitor. The company sells Nescafe instant coffee, as well
as single-serve Nespresso espresso capsules, Nestle’s fastest-
growing business.  Coffee Prices  Coffee makers such as Sara Lee, Kraft and  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) 
have all raised prices this year to cope with soaring costs for
coffee beans, which have doubled over the past twelve months due
to poor growing weather in countries like  Colombia .  Northfield, Illinois-based Kraft has 13 percent of the
market and Sara Lee has 5.5 percent. Kraft’s coffee brands
include Jacobs, Carte Noire, and the Tassimo beverage machine.  Coffee is a “core category” for Kraft, which generates
about $5 billion in global coffee sales, said spokesman Mike Mitchell. The company will keep competing “aggressively,” he
said.  “To gain that market share, Sara Lee has to take it from
Nestle or from Kraft, and I don’t think they will take it from
Nestle,” Baumgartner said. “It’s possible, but it will be a
Herculean task.”  Stock Performance  Sara Lee rose 43 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $19.12 at 4:15
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Kraft
advanced 14 cents to $34.26.  Tim Ramey , an analyst at D.A. Davidson & Co., said Sara Lee
will likely debut new versions of both the Senseo machine and
the coffee containers, which are called “pods.” The  Lake
Oswego , Oregon-based analyst rates the shares “neutral.”  Ramey said Bennink is “angling” for the CEO role at the
coffee and tea business after the split. Current CEO  Marcel
Smits , who took the top job in January after filling in on an
interim basis for seven months, would be the other potential
leader, Ramey said.  Bennink said he would “likely not” run the beverage
business as CEO but would be involved in some way, perhaps as a
director. He said he wouldn’t seek a CEO job at another company
after the split.  “I am glad I did this, but I would not do it again,” said
Bennink, who began his career at  Procter & Gamble Co ., where he
worked under former CEO A.G. Lafley and alongside current chief
Robert McDonald. “If someone calls me I can say no, however big
it is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  