-- 
Sasol CFO Says Company Profitability ‘Improved Further’ in Third Quarter

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-14T10:32:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/sasol-cfo-says-company-profitability-improved-further-in-third-quarter.html
Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the largest producer of
motor fuels from coal, increased profitability last quarter on
higher commodity prices, curbs on costs and increased output,
while the company expects “solid” full-year results.  “Sasol’s profitability has improved further in the third
quarter,” Chief Financial Officer Christine Ramon said today in
a statement. “Robust global commodity prices have countered the
impact of the strong rand, supporting healthy margins.”  The company, the largest by sales and market value in  South
Africa , will invest 23 billion rand ($3.4 billion) this year and
31 billion rand in 2012 on current projects and acquisitions of
assets to benefit from surging fuel prices. Crude  oil prices 
have increased 32 percent in the past year.  “Sasol is well positioned to deliver solid financial and
operational results for the full financial year,” Ramon said.  The producer rose 1.2 percent to 350.30 rand by 12:16 p.m.
in Johannesburg, bringing gains in the past year to 28 percent.  Sasol produced 1.9 million metric tons of synthetic fuel
last quarter, bringing the total for the first nine months of
its fiscal year to 5.3 million tons. The company expects output
to reach 7.1 million tons in the full year, just short of a
previous 7.2 million ton target. A maintenance outage at its
South African coal-to-fuels plant curbed first-half output.  Feasibility Study  Sasol, together with  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd and
Uzbekistan’s Uzbekneftegaz, are studying the feasibility of
building a 38,000-barrel-a-day gas-to-fuels plant in Uzbekistan.
Petronas, which has a one-third stake in the project, intends to
reduce its share to 11 percent, Ramon said.  “We expect to make a decision on the next phase of the
project in the second half of the 2011 calendar year,” she
said. “Securing project finance and currency convertibility
will be key criteria.” Sasol and  Tata Group  are also deciding
whether to build a 90,000-barrel-a-day plant that will produce
motor fuel from coal in  India ’s eastern state of Orissa.  Margins on chemical products increased “significantly” in
the third quarter, with international polymer and solvent prices
up 15 percent in dollar terms from the first half, Ramon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  