-- 
Scene Last Night: David O. Russell, Blake Lively, Melissa Leo

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-06-14T16:17:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/scene-last-night-david-o-russell-blake-lively-melissa-leo.html
David O. Russell, director of “The
Fighter,” organized some other shout-outs while he was being
honored at the Ghetto Film School’s Seventh Annual Spring
Benefit.  Russell, a board member and guest lecturer at the school,
which trains young people in narrative filmmaking, accepted the
GFS Champion Award while standing under the trees in the
Standard Hotel’s Biergarten last night.  Then he asked Blake Lively and Melissa Leo to read aloud
the names of more than 50 others associated with the school.  Lively, in a short Marchesa skirt, began with board
chairman Greg D’Alba, CNN executive vice president and chief
operating officer for advertising sales. Leo noted  Mark Wahlberg , her co-star in “The Fighter,” which earned her an
Oscar for best supporting actress. Lively ended with Andres
Santiago, program coordinator for the Cinema School, the public
high school the Ghetto Film School opened two years ago.  “Now we’re going to read the names of every student who
ever went to a Ghetto Film School program,” Russell joked, as
waiters in plaid vests quietly served steak and branzino paired
with Andre Balazs Sunset Beach Reserve Rose.  Several students had already come up to the lectern to
accept scholarships from celebrities including Marisa Tomei,
Luis Guzman and Sanaa Lathan. The school seeks to increase the
representation of blacks and Latinos in the film and advertising
industries. Two alumni were recently hired by the advertising
firm  Wieden+Kennedy .  “We learn from them,” said the managing director of
Wieden+Kennedy’s New York office, Neal Arthur.  The school runs a 15-month program that culminates with a
filmmaking trip abroad; this year the students are going to
 Shanghai . At the Cinema School, students take all the regular
high-school subjects as well as a film class.  Awaiting Next ‘Transformers’  The gala’s guests had plenty of time to do what so many
Biergarten customers do on a typical night: hang out and talk
about movies. Russell said he’s looking forward to the next
“Transformers” as well as “Bad Teacher” with  Cameron Diaz 
and  Justin Timberlake . He also had some viewing suggestions for
Ghetto Film School students including “Heaven Can Wait” and
“French Connection.”  As for his contributions to the school, “Here’s what I
do,” Russell explained. “I say to people, ‘Bring it! Tell me
your movie.’ I tell the whole class, let’s do it right now, and
let’s not be precious about it.  “I call it ‘spitball without shame.’ We get the ideas on
the table and then I tell them what I think. It’s about
storytelling and craft, that’s where the rubber meets the
road.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 