-- 
Senate Rejects Coburn Bid to Eliminate Ethanol Tax Break, Tariff

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 
2011-06-16T01:38:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/senate-rejects-bid-to-kill-ethanol-tax-break.html
The  U.S. Senate  will vote tomorrow
on another bid to end a tax break that supports ethanol
production.  The vote will come two days after the Senate voted 59-40
against advancing a similar proposal. The Senate will also
decide at 2 p.m. in Washington on a proposal from SenatorJohn McCain, an Arizona Republican, that would prevent federal
spending on certain ethanol-related pumps and storage facilities.  The opponents of ethanol benefits, led by Republican
Senator Tom Coburn of  Oklahoma  and Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein of  California , have been rallying a coalition that
includes chicken breeders, environmental groups and anti-
spending advocates. Their setback yesterday came after
Democratic Senate leaders urged their members to vote against
the proposal as a means of asserting their control of the
chamber’s proceedings, in protest of the way Coburn forced that
vote.  “It became clear that today’s vote was so wrapped up in
process that the outcome would not reflect the high level of
support for the amendment’s substance,” Feinstein said in a
statement after yesterday’s vote.  Feinstein also said that Majority Leader Harry Reid of
 Nevada  has said that the Senate will vote on a farm-state
alternative from Democrat Amy Klobuchar of  Minnesota  and
Republican John Thune of  South Dakota .  ‘Transition Period’  The  Klobuchar-Thune proposal  would end the current credit
on July 1 and in its place create a “safeguard” that would
exist if the price of oil drops below $90 a barrel. It would
also extend tax breaks for fuel stations, small ethanol
producers and cellulosic biofuels.  “We’re in a transition period” on biofuels policy, said
former Representative Larry Combest, a Texas Republican and
founder of Combest, Sell and Associates, a Washington lobbying
firm that represents agricultural interests. “Some groups that
have been traditional supporters of renewable fuels are looking
for other ways the money can be expended. Even people who are
strong supporters are asking: Where can we go from here?”  Coburn’s proposal for an immediate end to the ethanol tax
credit and tariff was offered as an amendment to an economic
development bill, which isn’t likely to become law. Members on
both sides of the vote viewed it as a test that would shape the
ethanol industry’s future and gauge Senate Republicans’
willingness to eliminate targeted tax breaks.  Republican Division  The ethanol vote is highlighting a schism within the
Republican Party between Coburn and tax-cut advocates such as
 Grover Norquist , president of Americans for Tax Reform, a
 Washington  group that has persuaded 40 of 47 Republican senators
to sign its no-tax-increase pledge. The group said a vote for
Coburn’s proposal would represent a pledge violation if
lawmakers didn’t also support a tax-cut amendment, such as the
estate tax repeal proposed by Republican Senator Jim DeMint of
 South Carolina .  Coburn painted the ethanol vote as a test of the pledge,
which labels the elimination of a tax break as a tax increase.  “It’s not a good position to put yourself in when you say
here’s a tax expenditure that nobody needs and yet we have to
give somebody else a tax cut to take away this because this is
tax spending, it’s not a  tax cut ,” he said.  Coburn and 33 other Republicans were joined by six members
of the Democratic caucus in voting to advance his measure
yesterday. Republican senators who have signed the tax reform
group’s pledge and voted with Coburn included Lamar Alexander of
 Tennessee , Mike Crapo of Idaho, Jeff Sessions of  Alabama  and
 Rand Paul  of  Kentucky .  Unique Situation  It’s unclear how many of those senators view ethanol as a
unique situation or whether some would join Coburn in his
support for curtailing dozens of similar spending programs
embedded in the  tax code  as part of a budget agreement that also
reduces spending.  “You can call that program an expenditure, but I reject in
general the idea that a tax deduction is an expenditure,”
Sessions said. “I don’t believe in that.”  Coburn faced objections from Norquist supporters as well as
from Democratic leaders irritated at the parliamentary maneuver
Coburn employed to force a vote. The Obama administration also
opposes repealing the tax credit, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said yesterday.  The coalition opposing the ethanol aid included the animal
agriculture industry that relies on corn for food,
environmentalists who question the benefits of corn-based
ethanol, and anti-spending advocates who view the program as
wasteful.  ‘Triple Crown’  “No other product I know of has the triple crown of
government support that corn ethanol has in this country,”
Feinstein said, referring to the tax credit, the tariff and a
mandate on ethanol use.  The blocking of Coburn’s amendment doesn’t necessarily mean
that the 45-cent-a-gallon ethanol tax credit will be extended
beyond its scheduled expiration at the end of the year.  Asked at a press conference yesterday whether he supported
the Coburn language and would consider bringing it up in the
House, Speaker  John Boehner  didn’t rule out the idea.  “Clearly there’s a big debate here on  Capitol Hill  about
what to do with ethanol, and I think that the ethanol credit is
due to expire at the end of the year,” Boehner, an Ohio
Republican, told reporters. “Some members will want to take
action earlier. We’re going to consider the views of all of our
members. But clearly, I think changes are on the way.”  The bill to which Coburn proposed attaching his amendment
is S. 782.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  