-- 
U.S. Senators Urge OCC Coordination on Mortgage-Servicer Plans

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-06-14T21:48:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/senators-press-occ-to-work-with-states-on-mortgage-servicing-deficiencies.html
Twelve U.S. senators urged the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency to work with state
attorneys general and other federal agencies as it considers
banks’ plans for addressing mortgage-servicing deficiencies.  The Senate Democrats, including Banking Committee Chairman
Tim Johnson and Patrick Leahy, head of the Judiciary Committee,
made the request after the OCC granted banks a 30-day extension
to meet terms of  consent orders  issued on April 13. Regulators
seek “action plans” from eight loan servicers including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   “As the OCC assesses these action plans to determine
whether they are acceptable, we urge you to work with the State
Attorneys General, the Department of Justice, the Department of
Housing and Urban Development, and the other authorities who are
involved,” the lawmakers wrote in a letter to  John Walsh , the
acting comptroller of the currency.  State and federal investigators are looking into servicers’
lapses in foreclosure procedures after firms were accused of
improperly seizing homes and relying on inexperienced workers
who failed to track paperwork or improperly signed documents.
Allegations of so-called robo-signing of legal documents led
several lenders to temporarily suspend foreclosures last year.  The OCC granted the extension yesterday at the request of
the Department of Justice to permit coordination by federal and
state agencies in response to the servicers’ proposals.  ‘Effective Framework’  “Our enforcement actions were intended to ensure that
national bank servicers fix the parts of the process that were
broken and provide effective remediation for borrowers,” Robert Garsson, the OCC’s spokesman, said in a statement. “Those
orders can also provide an effective framework for any remedial
steps that state officials believe are necessary, and we were
happy to accommodate the  Justice Department ’s request.”  The 10 other senators who signed the letter included the
second- and third-ranked Democrats in the Senate -- Richard Durbin of  Illinois  and  Charles Schumer  of  New York  -- as well as
Senators Jack Reed and Sheldon Whitehouse of  Rhode Island ,
 Richard Blumenthal  of  Connecticut , Robert Menendez of  New
Jersey , Daniel Akaka of  Hawaii , Sherrod Brown of  Ohio ,  Jeff Merkley  of  Oregon  andAl Franken of  Minnesota .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  