-- 
Serbia Won’t Sell Any More Euro-Indexed Debt, Deputy Finance Minister Says

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-06-14T15:50:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/serbia-won-t-sell-any-more-euro-indexed-debt-deputy-finance-minister-says.html
Serbia ’s government will no longer
link its dinar-denominated debt to the euro and will concentrate
on trying to help the central bank boost efficiency of monetary
policy, Deputy Finance Minister Vuk Djokovic said.  “There will be no more indexation to the euro,” Djokovic
told Bloomberg News in a phone interview today. “It will be
either dinars or euros. We do not like instruments which stand
in the way of the monetary policy of the National Bank of
Serbia.”  The country’s Debt Management Agency issued its July
borrowing calendar yesterday, offering no rollover for 21
billion dinars ($302.88 million) worth of six-month Treasury
bills it indexed to the euro and sold on Dec. 29. The Serbian
dinar has weakened since yesterday as investors anticipate the
debt’s maturity on July 1.  Serbia’s new debt sale plan includes a single 150 million-
euro offering in 18-month euro-denominated debt, which the
government aims to sell on July 4, offering “some refinancing
possibility” and “good relations with investors,” Djokovic
said.  The Dec. 29 auction, which was sold in dinars with a 5.25
percent yield, marked a shift in investor sentiment, attracting
bond buyers and triggering the firming of the dinar, turning the
currency this year into the world’s second best performer among
178 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Fighting Inflation  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije is fighting double-
digit inflation with a double-digit benchmark interest rate. It
lowered its two-week repurchase rate by half a percentage point
to 12 percent on June 9 amid signs inflation peaked in April and
began slowing in May. The central bank is trying to increase the
volume of dinar transactions in the economy where close to 70
percent of all banking transactions are conducted in euros.  “We feel the dinar is approaching value and we will
monitor the price action in euro-dinar closely,” said  Benoit Anne , head of global emerging-markets strategy at Societe
Generale SA,  France ’s second-largest bank, in a note to clients
today. The French bank in May took profits on its short euro-
dinar position and said it would be looking for new levels to
“go long dinar again.”  Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  said today he isn’t
concerned about the moves in the dinar and said the best
exchange rate is one “set by the market.” Speaking to
reporters after meeting Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ,
Cvetkovic declined to comment on the maturing euro-indexed debt
issue.  Monitoring Market  After its initial statement that it was monitoring the
market, the central bank said later in the day it sold “10
million euros today to prevent excessive daily fluctuations in
the dinar.” The official  exchange rate  set today is 100.66
dinars to the euro, down from 99.91 to the euro yesterday, it
said.  The NBS first said it would “take part in the foreign
exchange market” to ensure its smooth functioning, while seeing
no reason for its role in the market as trading volumes stood at
180 million euros yesterday - - the highest daily volume this
year so far, according to its own data.  Serbia’s 18-month Treasury bill issue of 10 billion dinars
was undersold today, with investors offering to buy 7.56 billion
dinars and the government accepting to sell 6.48 billion dinars.
The average yield dropped to 12.69 percent from 12.91 percent on
May 24.  Serbia’s public debt rose to 43.5 percent of GDP at the end
of the first quarter, expanding by 1.3 percentage points of GDP
since December, the central bank said on its website today. The
debt has grown as the government stepped up domestic borrowing.
The government has a self-imposed cap on debt levels at 45
percent of GDP and if the limit is breached, the government has
to present debt servicing plan to parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  