-- 
Serena Williams Defeats Pironkova in Comeback Match at Wimbledon Warmup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-14T14:46:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/serena-williams-beats-pironkova-in-comeback-match-at-eastbourne-tennis.html
Defending Wimbledon champion  Serena Williams  overcame  Tsvetana Pironkova  in her comeback match after
almost a year away from professional tennis.  Williams beat the Bulgarian, 1-6, 6-3, 6-4 on a packed
center court at the Aegon International grass-court tournament
in Eastbourne,  England .  Wimbledon , the year’s third Grand Slam
event, starts June 20.  “I am a little rusty, but really enjoy playing here,”
Williams, 29, said in a court-side interview. “It’s great to be
back.”  The American is making her comeback to the women’s tour at
the Wimbledon warm-up event on the south coast of England after
being sidelined by two foot operations last year and treatment
for blood clots in her lung in February. Today was her first
match since she collected her 13th Grand Slam singles title at
Wimbledon in July.  Watched by her sister and five-time Wimbledon champion
Venus and their father Richard, Williams started off nervously,
producing a double fault in her first service game. After
dropping serve for the second time in the match for 4-0 down,
she cracked her racket on the grass. The 34th-ranked Pironkova,
who reached the Wimbledon semifinals last year, took the first
set 6-1 as Williams struggled with her ground strokes and
movement.  The momentum shifted in the second set, as Williams held
serve after saving a break point and then broke the Bulgarian to
take a 2-0 lead. Williams took the second set 6-3 with a
forehand volley. Serving for the match at 5-3 in the final set,
Williams produced her seventh ace and moved to the next round
with a deep backhand.  Formerly ranked No. 1 and now 26th on the WTA tour,
Williams will either play British wildcard Heather Watson or
 Vera Zvonareva  in the next round. The Russian, the top seed in
Eastbourne, lost to Williams in last year’s Wimbledon final.  Williams told a news conference yesterday the blood clots
she sustained in February could have been “life-threatening”
and “career-ending.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  