-- 
Singapore Proposes Corporate Governance Changes to Shield its Image

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-06-14T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/singapore-proposes-corporate-governance-changes-to-shield-its-image.html
Singapore proposed changes to its
corporate governance rules such as ensuring the independence of
directors and board oversight of a company’s internal controls
as the city seeks to protect its reputation as a financial hub.  “Good corporate governance plays an important role in
ensuring the effective functioning of Singapore’s capital
markets,” Alan Chan, chairman of the Corporate Governance
Council, told reporters today. Chan is also the chief executive
officer of  Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. (SPH) , the city’s biggest
publisher.  Regulators around the world have stepped up oversight of
their capital markets after coming under scrutiny during the
global financial crisis in 2008. The Monetary Authority of
Singapore set up the 13-member council last year with a goal to
 boost corporate governance standards  and investor confidence.  The council proposed 15 changes to the code, which was last
reviewed in 2005. The public can comment on the proposals by
July 31.  The proposals include ensuring independent directors make
up at least half of the board, including when the chairman and
CEO is the same person or immediate family members; that a
director can’t be considered independent after serving on a
board for more than nine years; and that the board must be
responsible for risk management and internal controls.  They also include the introduction of guidelines on
shareholder rights.  “This is music to my ears,” said David Gerald, president
of the Securities Investors Association  Singapore  and one of the
council members.  Critical Effort  A former independent director at Airocean Group Ltd. was
sentenced in March to four months jail for his part in making a
misleading statement to the  Singapore Exchange . The central bank
won its first civil lawsuits for stock rigging and  insider
trading  last year while the Attorney General’s office has set up
a unit to prosecute complex financial crimes.  “This effort is critical to maintaining investor
confidence and to enhance Singapore’s reputation as a leading
and trusted international financial center,” the council said
in a statement.  Investors and the Securities Investors Association
Singapore have also called for tighter rules governing foreign
companies listed on the nation’s bourse.  Several Chinese companies listed in Singapore, including
 China Milk Products Group Ltd. (CMILK)  and Sino Environment Technology
Group Ltd., have reported irregularities in their accounts,
leading to their shares being suspended.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  