-- 
Sino-Forest Says Fraud Investigation Will Slow Pace of Tree Acquisitions

-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-06-14T21:02:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/sino-forest-posts-first-quarter-profit-of-13-cents-before-accounting-costs.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the Chinese
timber grower that short seller Carson Block said overstated its
production, fell after saying an investigation won’t be finished
for two to three months, slowing the pace of tree acquisitions.  The shares dropped 33 percent to a five-year low in Toronto
after posting first-quarter earnings today that missed analyst’s
estimates. It also said on a conference call it won’t be able to
buy back shares until after the probe.  Sino-Forest, whose biggest shareholder is Paulson & Co.,
has tumbled 81 percent since Muddy Waters LLC, founded by Block,
said in a  report  published June 2 that the timber producer is a
“fraud” and overstated concessions in China. Sino-Forest
established an independent committee to investigate the
allegations and appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to assist.
Sino-Forest today reiterated its response that  Muddy Waters ’
report is “inaccurate, spurious and defamatory.”  “I just don’t think they are able now to address all the
questions that are out there,” Brian Topp, a Toronto-based
analyst at Maison Placements Canada Inc. who has a “hold”
rating on Sino-Forest, said in a telephone interview. “The
market is taking it negatively because they essentially aren’t
providing enough detail because they can’t.”  Sino-Forest dropped C$1.62 to C$3.36 as of 4:49 p.m. on the
Toronto Stock Exchange, their lowest price since Nov. 4, 2005.
Shares of the Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based company
have declined 86 percent this year, the worst performance on the
S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange Composite Index.  ‘Aggressive’ Timeline  Investors and regulators have increased their scrutiny of
Chinese companies trading in  North America . The U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission began a probe in 2010 into the use of
reverse takeovers, in which a closely held firm becomes public
by purchasing a shell company that already trades. The Bloomberg
Chinese Reverse Mergers Index of U.S.-listed stocks has fallen
45 percent this year.  “This investigation is going to take a tremendous amount
of time,” Chief Financial Officer David Horsley said on the
conference call. “That’s going to impact in the short term our
ability to continue the acquisition pace we were on for the
year.”  The timeline for the investigation is “aggressive,” Muddy
Waters said in a  statement  that it posted on its website
following the conference call.  Conference Call  “Senior management came out swinging in the conference
call,” Richard Kelertas, an analyst at Dundee Securities in
 Montreal  who has his rating on the shares under review, said in
a report. Dundee was among investors that helped Sino-Forest
sell shares in December 2009 and also in May 2009.  The call’s question-and-answer session “was a bit short
and it is our opinion that some questions were likely not
answered to the satisfaction of equity analysts and investors,”
he said. “The company could have been more forceful and clear
in some of their responses but it could be that they are working
under certain limitations placed on them by the independent
committee.”  Sino-Forest had a first-quarter loss of $20.7 million, or 8
cents a share, compared with net income of $15.9 million, or 7
cents, a year earlier. Excluding a charge of about 22 cents
related to conversion to International Financial Reporting
Standards, profit was 13 cents a share. That missed the 21-cent
average of six analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Sales gained 35 percent to $338.9 million from $251 million
a year earlier, the company said. The plantation area under
management in  China  at the end of the quarter was 866,600
hectares (2.14 million acres), up 9.9 percent from the end of
the preceding quarter.  Short Seller  Block, 35, who stands to make money from declines in Sino-
Forest’s stock, said in a June 6 Bloomberg Television interview
he will keep betting against the company until its shares reach
“zero.”  Short selling, the sale of borrowed shares with the hope of
profiting when they fall, more than doubled to a record 35
percent of Sino-Forest’s outstanding stock as of June 2 from 17
percent on May 2, according to  Data Explorers , a New York-based
research firm. While bearish bets against the stock have
retreated to 28 percent as of June 10, Sino-Forest remains the
most-shorted stock in the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index.  The Muddy Waters report said the amount of land Sino-Forest
said it bought from Lincang City in China’s Yunnan province
doesn’t match city records.  Regulatory Probe  Sino-Forest said on June 8 it asked the Toronto Stock
Exchange and the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of
 Canada  to probe trading in its stock. The Ontario Securities
Commission said the same day it was studying “matters related”
to the company. Moody’s Investors Service put Sino-Forest’s Ba2
corporate family and senior-unsecured ratings on review June 7.  Sino-Forest has “adequate liquidity” based on an analysis
of its audited financial statements, Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services said June 9. S&P rated Sino-Forest’s long-term debt BB,
two levels below investment grade.  The company was advised against buying back its stock until
the investigation is complete, William Ardell, a director, said
on the call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  