-- 
Sino-Forest Says Top Shareholder Paulson Offers Advice After Stock Plunges

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-06-15T20:42:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/sino-forest-says-top-shareholder-paulson-supportive-after-stock-s-plunge.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the Chinese tree-
plantation owner that’s plunged 82 percent since being targeted
by short-seller Carson Block, said its largest holder Paulson &
Co. has advised it on how to deal with Block’s allegations.  “I’ve spoken to them and they are very supportive, giving
us suggestions and issues that we need to address,” Chief
Financial Officer David Horsley said yesterday in an interview.  Horsley, Chief Executive Officer Allen Chan, and director
William Ardell held a 68-minute conference call with investors
and analysts yesterday to refute assertions from Block’s Muddy
Waters LLC that Sino-Forest overstated its timber holdings.
Sino-Forest slumped 33 percent yesterday after the company’s
earnings missed analysts’ estimates.  Paulson may have lost about C$520.4 million ($531.7
million) since June 1, the day before the Muddy Waters  report  on
Sino-Forest was released. The decline comes amid increased
scrutiny of Chinese companies trading in  North America . The U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission began a probe in 2010 into
the use of reverse takeovers, in which a closely held firm goes
public by purchasing a shell company that already trades.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson in New York, declined
to comment in a telephone interview. Paulson owned 34.7 million
Sino-Forest shares, or about 14 percent of the stock, as of
April 29, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sino-Forest dropped 14 cents, or 4.2 percent, to C$3.22 as
of 4:28 p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading.  Conference Call  Sino-Forest was advised against buying back its stock until
an investigation by the company into Muddy Water’s allegations
is complete, Ardell said on the conference call.  Sino-Forest “could have been more forceful and clear in
some of their responses” on the call “but it could be that
they are working under certain limitations placed on them by the
independent committee” appointed to examine Block’s assertions,
Richard Kelertas, an analyst at Dundee Securities Ltd. in
 Montreal  who has his rating on the shares under review, said in
a note to clients.  The question-and-answer session “was a bit short and it is
our opinion that some questions were likely not answered to the
satisfaction of equity analysts and investors,” Kelertas said.
Dundee was among investors that helped Sino-Forest sell shares
in December 2009 and also in May 2009.  Sooner Than Later  “Investors would prefer to have more of the answers
they’re looking for sooner rather than later,” said Kevin Pollack, a  fund manager  at New York-based Paragon Capital LP who
invests in U.S.-listed Chinese stocks. Pollack has never been
long or short Sino-Forest, he said.  Horsley said top company executives haven’t had face-to-
face meetings with investors since the week the  Muddy Waters 
report was released.  “I haven’t been down to the U.S,” said Horsley, who was
interviewed along with Chan by telephone from  Hong Kong . “We
were meeting with investors that week, but since then we’ve just
been dealing with the situation.”  Sino-Forest, based in Hong Kong and Mississauga, Ontario,
wasn’t contacted by Muddy Waters before the research firm’s
report was made public, Chan said in the interview. Muddy Waters
said the amount of land Sino-Forest said it bought from Lincang
City in China’s Yunnan province doesn’t match city records.
Sino-Forest says the report in inaccurate.  ‘Total Surprise’  “Because Muddy Waters never approached the company before
it issued the report, it came as a total surprise to us,” Chan
said. “Had Muddy Waters approached us before the release of the
report, definitely we would have had lots of opportunity to
explain to them, to show them all the errors that they have made
in the report.”  The company has established an independent committee to
investigate Muddy Waters’ allegations and appointed
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to assist. The probe won’t be
finished for two to three months, slowing the pace of timberland
acquisitions, Sino-Forest said yesterday in its earnings
statement.  “This investigation is going to take a tremendous amount
of time,” Horsley said on the conference call. “That’s going
to impact in the short term our ability to continue the
acquisition pace we were on for the year.”  The timeline for the investigation is “aggressive,” Muddy
Waters said in a  statement  that it posted on its website
following the call.  Management’s Comments  Sino-Forest reported a first-quarter loss of $20.7 million,
or 8 cents a share, compared with net income of $15.9 million,
or 7 cents, a year earlier. Excluding a charge of about 22 cents
related to conversion to International Financial Reporting
Standards, profit was 13 cents a share. That trailed the 21-cent
average of six analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales gained 35 percent to $338.9 million from $251 million
a year earlier. The plantation area under management in  China  at
the end of the quarter was 866,600 hectares (2.14 million
acres), up 9.9 percent from the end of the preceding quarter.  Sino-Forest said on June 8 it asked the Toronto Stock
Exchange and the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of
 Canada  to probe trading in its stock. The Ontario Securities
Commission said the same day it was studying “matters related”
to the company.  Block, 35, who stands to make money from declines in Sino-
Forest’s stock, said in a June 6 Bloomberg Television interview
he will keep betting against the company until its shares reach
“zero.”  Short selling, the sale of borrowed shares with the hope of
profiting when they fall, more than doubled to a record 35
percent of Sino-Forest’s outstanding stock as of June 2 from 17
percent on May 2, according to  Data Explorers , a New York-based
research firm. While bearish bets against the stock have
retreated to 28 percent as of June 10, Sino-Forest remains the
most-shorted stock in the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 