-- 
SK C&C USA, InComm Will Let Merchants Offer Mobile Payments

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-06-14T17:44:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/sk-telecom-incomm-let-merchants-compete-with-google-mobile-pay.html
SK C&C USA, a unit of  South Korea ’s
SK C&C, will work with  InComm  to introduce a technology that
helps shoppers get coupons and pay for items on their phones, a
bid to take on  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in the mobile-pay market.  The partnership joins Alpharetta, Georgia-based SK C&C USA
with InComm, an Atlanta-based distributor and processor of
prepaid cards, said Keith Smith, president of CorFire, the
mobile-commerce business of  SK C&C USA . InComm has operations in
225,000 stores, including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and Best Buy Co.  The partners’ technology will let merchants issue mobile
wallet applications, containing prepaid, gift and bank cards and
coupons, under the retailers’ own brands. Customers will
download the apps from the Web or from Internet app stores to
their smartphones, and use them to pay at cash registers.  The merchants’ mobile-payment and coupon services will
compete with similar products from Google and  ISIS , a joint
venture between  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon Wireless  and  T-Mobile USA .
Google’s and ISIS’s mobile wallets will contain loyalty cards
from merchants that feature the ventures’ brands -- rather than
the retailers’ -- and control how and when customers receive
merchant offers.  “If merchants don’t develop their own wallet, they’ll
always be beholden to Google to reach their customers,” Richard Crone, who heads Crone Consulting LLC, said in an interview.
While small retailers may go with Google or another third-party
provider, large merchants will issue their own wallets as well,
he said.  Forgotten Merchant  “We’ve come forward and said, ‘Someone’s forgotten about
the merchant,’” Smith, CorFire’s president, said in a telephone
interview. SK C&C USA’s technology is already used in the Google
wallet and to provide mobile-payment services to about 25
million mobile subscribers in  Korea .  Merchants who issue their own mobile-payment products will
also be competing with wallet apps provided by banks, credit
card companies and even carriers. A typical consumer’s phone is
likely to carry multiple mobile wallets. Wallet issuers will
compete for their app to be the most used.  “Clearly, these wallets are encroaching on each other’s
territory,”  Nick Holland , a senior analyst with consulting firm
 Yankee Group  in Boston, said in an interview. “Whoever
telegraphs to consumers that they have the most robust
experience wins.”  SK C&C USA and InComm have added features to their wallet
to make it more appealing, said Dustin Young, vice president of
product strategy for InComm. Merchants will be able to tailor a
coupon or an offer to individual consumers.  Custom Products  Each merchant will also be able to customize the wallet to
emphasize loyalty or gift cards, or daily deals. A merchant can
also choose to let a consumer pay and redeem coupons by scanning
bar codes or by tapping their phones on cash registers enabled
for a technology called  near field communication . Those
registers can accept payment from NFC-enabled phones like the
Google Nexus S.  “We believe that consumers will gravitate toward
merchants’ wallets because they will offer value above and
beyond what others offer,” Young said in an interview.  Adoption by large nationwide merchants will be key to the
partners’ success. The first merchant wallets based on their
technology should be announced in the fourth quarter, Young
said.  “We are in conversations with several major retailers in
the country,” Smith said.  ISIS plans to launch its wallet in two cities in early
2012, according to a statement. Google’s wallet will become
available in  San Francisco  and  New York  this summer.  While the partners didn’t disclose what fees they will
charge the merchants for their technology, it will be “more
cost effective” than what merchants use today, Young said.  “We are not looking to add cost to the system,” Young
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland , Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 