-- 
Small-Business Index in U.S. Fell in May to Eight-Month Low

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-06-14T11:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/small-business-index-in-u-s-fell-in-may-to-eight-month-low.html
Confidence among small U.S.
businesses fell to an eight-month low in May, damped by a
deteriorating outlook for sales and hiring, a private survey
showed.  The  National Federation of Independent Business ’s optimism
index decreased to 90.9, the lowest since September, from 91.2
the prior month, the Washington-based group said today in a
statement. Six of the measure’s 10 components dropped.  Twenty-five percent of small-business owners cited weak
sales as their top problem, one reason why they are reluctant to
hire and invest. A measure of net price increases posted a
fourth consecutive gain as business owners passed along raw-
material costs to customers.  “The most apparent reason for the weak optimism is the
weak recovery,”  William Dunkelberg , the group’s chief
economist, said in a statement. “The key is the consumer,” he
said. “When sales pick up, owners will have a reason to hire
more workers to take care of customers and to produce more
output.”  A gauge of whether business owners expected higher sales
fell 2 points to 3 percent, the lowest level since October. A
measure of whether small firms plan to create new jobs fell 3
points to a net minus 1 percent last month, while a gauge of
hard-to-fill openings dropped 2 points to a net 12 percent.  At the same time, more small-business owners said that
expect business conditions will improve six months from now.  How Measured  The NFIB survey’s net figures are calculated by subtracting
the percent of company leaders giving a negative answer from
those with a positive response and adjusting the results for
seasonal variations.  A measure of whether small firms think this is a good time
to expand rose 1 point to a net 5 percent, while a gauge of
capital outlays fell 1 point to 20 percent. A gauge of companies
planning to increase inventories fell 2 points to a net minus 3
percent.  An index of earnings trends increased by 2 points to a net
minus 24 percent.  “Large firms may be posting great profits, but the trend
on Main Street is still not supportive of solid hiring and
 capital spending ,” said Dunkelberg.  A net 15 percent of small businesses reported raising
average selling prices in May. It was the fourth consecutive
positive monthly reading after 25 months of decreases. Plans to
increase prices fell one point to 23 percent, the second only to
April as the highest reading in 31 months.  The NFIB report was based on 733 small-business owners
surveyed through May 30. Small businesses represent more than 99
percent of all employers and have created 65 percent of new jobs
in the past 17 years, according to the U.S. Small Business
Administration. A small business is defined as an independent
enterprise employing up to 500 people.  To contact the report on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  