-- 
SOL’s Solar Lighting Moves from Remote Spots to City Parking Lots

-- B y   K a r e n   E .   K l e i n
-- 
2011-06-14T22:57:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/sol-s-solar-lighting-moves-from-remote-spots-to-city-parking-lots.html
When it became commercially available two
decades ago, outdoor solar lighting was prohibitively expensive,
used mainly for locations far from existing electrical grids. In
the past, deep-pocketed buyers typically had very specific
needs, such as illuminating ammunition depots at which
electrical sparks could cause explosions or lighting remote
military bases.  Recently, solar lighting material costs have decreased and
efficiency has increased. Michael Sonnenfeldt, 55, president and
CEO of  SOL , a Palm City, Fla., manufacturer that specializes in
building systems for such commercial applications as parking
lots and pathways, says the 45-employee company is well-
positioned to benefit. Lighting and consumer products behemoth
 Philips (PHG)  estimates the global market for solar lighting at
$1 billion within a decade.  Sonnenfeldt, who founded peer-to-peer investment group Tiger 21,
invested $5 million in SOL since its 1990 inception. He took
over daily operations four years ago and used the $20 million
company’s profits to install systems in disaster zones.
Sonnenfeldt spoke recently with Bloomberg.com contributor Karen E.
Klein for this as-told-to Entrepreneur’s Journal:  For the first time ever, solar outdoor lighting has achieved
grid parity and we can compete with the best lighting products
in the world. Because of this, we expect our business to grow a
hundredfold over the next 10 years. We have 50,000 systems in 60
countries around the world and we recently opened an office in
Geneva.  Right now, we capture about 35 percent of the market share in
 North America , where about one half of 1 percent of outdoor
lighting is solar lighting. It’s been estimated that within the
next decade, 20 percent to 30 percent of outdoor lighting will
be solar-powered.  I got involved in SOL about six months after it was founded in
1990. The founder, Alan Hurst, now heads our international sales.
He needed an investor to provide some capital, so I put up
$50,000 and bought 5 percent of the company. I was fascinated by
the magic of digging a hole in the ground, sticking a pole in
the hole, and watching the light go on.  The technology then was in its infancy, but only by comparison
to where it is today. Over the past 20 years, we’ve become the
largest supplier of solar-powered outdoor lighting to the U.S.
military. We have always been a high-quality manufacturer but
along the way we’ve found ways to improve.  When we started the company, the light source was generally a
fluorescent light like a neon tube. The best lights you could
get then would produce 20-to-30 lumens per watt, which is the
general measure of light output. Back then, solar panels cost $5
per watt. Today, solar panels run $1.50 per watt.  Over the last four years, we’ve converted to digital LED lights.
Those are so efficient that today, state-of-the-art LEDs produce
100-to-120 lumens per watt. So unlike other forms of energy,
which keep getting more expensive, we can produce three-to-four
times more light now at 30 percent of the cost.  Our new family of lights are the most sophisticated parking-lot
lights in the world. And they are so inexpensive that when
you’re building a new parking lot anywhere in the U.S. --
whether it’s for a local deli, or a bank, or an office building
where the average light is 25 feet high or less -- it’s the same
cost or cheaper to put in solar. What you save in not trenching
(putting in underground cables and installing wiring) is more
than the extra cost of the solar. And of course, the energy is
free.  Why does somebody spend 20 years supporting a company? Over the
years, I have underwritten losses, provided capital for growth,
and invested in R&D at SOL. I did it because of a fundamental
belief that the day would come where the cost of electricity and
the environmental issues would make solar more and more
applicable. I couldn’t have predicted 20 years ago that we’d sit
here today, worried about global warming and terrorism.  In 1980, I converted an old, industrial warehouse directly
across the  Hudson River  from  Wall Street  into the Harborside
Financial Center in  Jersey City , N.J. It was the largest
commercial renovation in the country. The building was owned by
my wife’s family and it had been the northeast distribution
center of the Pennsylvania Railroad. In 1929, it was the largest
building in the  United States .  I was lucky enough to find a partner and buy it. I had the
vision to convert it into a back office and computer center for
Wall Street. I sold it in 1987 for $123 million to the U.S. West
pension fund.  At that time I was 31. I had done my undergraduate and graduate
work at MIT. I went to the Sloan Business School and afterward
took a job for a year at Goldman Sachs, in the mergers-and-real-
estate department. I left when this project came along.  After I sold Harborside, I created a foundation called
Foundation Emmes to do peacekeeping work in places like
 Cambodia ,  Syria , Cypress, and Eritrea. Emmes is a Hebrew word
that means “truth.” [The foundation is active today as the
 Humpty Dumpty Institute .] I had been on the board of Business
Executives for National Security. In the 1990s, I led 10
inspection teams to 28 war zones around the world, negotiating
ends to conflicts and inspecting the mechanisms of international
peacekeeping forces.  In 1991, at the nadir of the savings and loan crisis, I began
Emmes & Company to buy distressed real estate around the
country. We were buying packages of 100 buildings at a time. By
the time I sold that business to my partners in 1998, it had
about $1 billion in real estate holdings. We owned 200
commercial buildings -- apartments, industrial buildings, and
retail -- in six or seven states.  About four years ago, I was building a private-equity business
and my partner and I had a shop filled with young associates.
One of them was handling SOL and spending time on it. My partner
said to me: It’s time to fix it, kill it, or sell it. I had not
been involved personally with the company because I was growing
other businesses and involved in nonprofit organizations. I was
a serial entrepreneur but I had never used any of my personal
skills in trying to build SOL. I was supporting what I used to
call my fifth child.  At that time, I realized in my heart and gut that what I really
wanted to do was fix it. I was diagnosed with cancer around that
time and while I was undergoing treatment, I thought about what
was important in the world. I’d been doing philanthropic stuff
with my resources, but my business was never connected to my
philanthropy.  I decided that SOL was an opportunity to do both: to have a
driven workforce, but take some or all of our profits and make
lights available where they could save lives. Since that time we
have sent solar lights into disaster areas --  Hurricane Katrina ,
the earthquake in  Peru , and we did a massive job in  Haiti .  We’ve donated $300,000 to $400,000 worth of equipment, plus our
time, to these causes. Our whole company has mobilized around
them. As we speak, our lights are being installed in  Japan .
We’ve given light to medical clinics in Central America and
orphanages in  Rwanda . Where we can find a really great use for
our lights, we do that as a core part of our ethics.  Over the past four years, we have brought in substantial new
management, new heads of marketing and engineering, and an
entire new sales team that is deployed across America. We have a
new  customer service  and inside sales department, and we created
a marketing department where we didn’t have one before. Our
problem is no longer technology; it’s getting people to learn
about this amazing technology.  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen E. Klein at
 karen@kareneklein.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  