-- 
Somali Prime Minister Rejects Deal Calling for Resignation

-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 
2011-06-14T14:03:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/somalia-s-prime-minister-mohamed-rejects-deal-calling-for-his-resignation.html
Somali Prime Minister Mohamed
Abdullahi Mohamed rejected an agreement between the country’s
president and speaker of parliament that calls for him to step
down and said he would seek a vote of confidence from lawmakers.  “I would resign only after the Somali parliament and Somali
people decide to take my post,” Mohamed told reporters today in
Mogadishu, the capital. “I will ask the parliament for a
confidence vote.”  On June 9, Somali President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed and
Speaker Sharif Hassan Sheikh Adan deferred elections in the war-
torn country for 12 months to allow more time for a political
transition. The accord called for the appointment of a new prime
minister within 30 days. The deal followed months of disputes
between Somalia’s executive and legislative branches over when
their terms should end and the date for elections.  The  United Nations Security Council  threatened cuts in
donor aid unless the squabbling stopped. Somalia has been mired
in a civil war for two decades and hasn’t had a functioning
central government since the 1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre. Most of the southern and central parts of the Horn
of African nation have been seized by the Islamic insurgency
movement, al-Shabaab.  The government, backed by African Union troops, has claimed
recent victories against the rebels in Mogadishu, the capital,
and along the border with  Kenya .  Supporters of Mohamed have protested in the streets of
Mogadishu since the agreement was announced, leading to arrests
by the country’s security forces of civilians and journalists,
Abwan Osman Guure, director of  Kulmiye Radio , a broadcaster
based in the city, said in an interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 