-- 
Soros Says China Missed Window to Stem Inflation, Now Risks ‘Hard Landing’

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-06-14T15:20:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/soros-says-china-missed-window-to-stem-inflation-now-risks-hard-landing-.html
China  has missed its opportunity to
stem inflation and may now risk a hard landing, billionaire
investor  George Soros  said.  The world’s second-largest economy is in a “bit of a
bubble,” Soros, 80, said today at a conference in Oslo. There
are some signs that China is “losing control,” he said.  China today ordered lenders to set aside more cash as
reserves after inflation last month accelerated at the fastest
pace in almost three years. Consumer prices rose an annual 5.5
percent in May, even after the central bank raised  interest
rates  four times since September. Inflation has exceeded the
government’s 4 percent target every month this year.  China’s formula for steering its economy is “running out
of steam,” Soros said, adding the country is seeing the
beginnings of wage-price inflation.  At the same time, efforts to restore growth in the U.S. and
 Europe  have failed to address underlying imbalances and the
global economy is not “out of the woods at all,” Soros said.  Banks have “not been properly recapitalized” and
“underlying imbalances have not been corrected,” he said.  Recovery prospects are being hampered by the fact that the
“authorities are not providing a solution,” he said.  Europe has yet to persuade investors its single currency is
a functioning system and the euro continues to have “inherent
problems,” Soros said. The region is displaying a “two-speed”
recovery, led by  Germany , while the region’s bailout recipients
Greece, Ireland and Portugal struggle to stay afloat.  Turning to  Africa   In the U.S., policy makers are trying to balance the target
of  job creation  against the need to reduce debt levels. The
 World Bank  last week cut its estimate for global growth this
year to 3.2 percent from a January estimate for 3.3 percent
expansion.  Soros said economic turmoil in the developed world is
prompting him to turn to Africa, a region he called a “very
attractive area to invest in,” adding he is “very much
engaged” there.  Soros is chairman of Soros Fund Management LLC, which has
about $28 billion in assets. He is best known for reportedly
making $1 billion in 1992 on a successful bet that the U.K.
would fail to keep the pound in a European exchange-rate system
that pre-dated the euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  