-- 
South Africa Hires More State Workers to Reduce Unemployment, Zuma Says

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-14T13:50:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/south-africa-hires-more-state-workers-to-reduce-unemployment-zuma-says.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
said his administration has hired more workers and granted tax
breaks to companies to encourage investment as it implements a
plan to reduce unemployment.  South African companies fired more than 1 million workers
after the global financial crisis hit, lifting the jobless rate
to a peak of 25.3 percent in the third quarter of last year. The
rate stood at 25 percent in the first quarter of 2011.  “In the year to March 2011, net formal employment grew by
42,000,” Zuma told lawmakers in Cape Town today. “The
government sector created 133,000 new jobs. This compensated for
the still-weak performance of the private sector.”  In his state-of-the-nation address on Feb. 10, Zuma
announced plans to introduce tax breaks for manufacturers worth
20 billion rand ($3 billion) and establish a 9 billion rand job-
creation fund to promote hiring.  Three projects worth a total of 4.1 billion rand have
already qualified for tax concessions worth 1.3 billion rand,
and they have created 364 jobs, Zuma said today. The jobs fund
became operational last week and will aim to disburse at least 2
billion rand in the current fiscal year, he said.  “We recognize that unemployment in  South Africa  remains
very high by international standards,” Zuma said. “While
inviting foreign direct investments, we will also do all we can
to protect local jobs and industries. We believe it is possible
to do both.”  Unequal Society  South Africa remains one of the world’s most unequal
societies 17 years after the end of all-white rule. The
government’s efforts at bringing more of the black majority into
the mainstream economy by forcing companies to sell stakes to
black investors have been criticized by labor unions who say
they have created a black elite.  The trade ministry is reviewing the country’s black
empowerment policies and will present proposed changes to the
Cabinet soon, Zuma said.  “We need black economic empowerment to address the
monopoly domination of our economy,” he said. The government
wants to shift the focus “away from equity investment and
ownership towards productive activities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  