-- 
South Africa’s Nationalization Push May Continue as Malema Set to Win Vote

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-06-15T08:03:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/south-africa-s-nationalization-push-may-continue-as-malema-set-to-win-vote.html
Julius Malema , the firebrand youth
leader of South  Africa ’s  African National Congress , is likely to
win re-election this week, keeping pressure on the ruling party
to boost state control of the country’s mines.  All nine provincial sections named Malema, 30, as their
candidate for president of the  ANC Youth League , to be decided
at the congress that runs from tomorrow to June 19. The former
student leader has polarized the ruling party, lambasting
opponents and making comments that many regarded as racist.  “This establishes him as a big shot,” Prince Mashele,
executive director for the Johannesburg-based Centre for
Politics and Research, said in an interview yesterday. The ANC
leadership “will be having huge headaches now. They don’t know
how to handle him. He has proven to be uncontrollable.”  Under Malema, the Youth League has campaigned for the
nationalization of mines, banks and land, the last of which
without compensation, threatening to deter investment in
Africa’s biggest economy.  South Africa ’s mines, which include
the world’s richest veins of platinum, chrome and manganese, are
its biggest export earners.  While Malema’s aren’t part of the ANC’s mainstream views,
his lobbying “is of great concern to investors,”  John Meyer ,
the head of natural resources at London-based brokerage Fairfax
I.S. Plc, said in an interview. “It would be fatal for the
 mining industry .”  Malema’s election may also worry South African President
 Jacob Zuma , who ousted former-President  Thabo Mbeki  as ANC
leader with the help of the Youth League in 2007.  Mining Companies  Upset by a public reprimand from the president last year
and little public support for his positions, Malema may not
support Zuma for a second term, said Aubrey Matshiqi, a research
fellow at the Johannesburg-based Helen Suzman Foundation.  South African mines are still largely owned by whites and
foreigners and are failing to benefit the poor, the Youth League
says.  The idea that the economy “can be transformed to address
the massive unemployment, poverty and inequality crisis without
the transfer of wealth from those who currently own it to the
people as a whole is illusionary,” it said in a document due to
be discussed at the conference.  When Malema visited neighboring  Zimbabwe  last year, he
commended it for giving white-owned commercial farms to black
subsistence farmers, a process that cost hundreds of thousands of 
jobs, slashed agricultural output and sent the economy into a 
decade of recession.  `Road to Ruin'  Anglo American Plc (AGL) ’s Chief Executive Officer  Cynthia Carroll  said on Feb. 8 that giving private mines to the state in
South Africa would be “the road to ruin” because international
investors would pull funding from the country.  While the government has repeatedly said nationalization
isn’t official policy, it has been unable to sideline Malema’s
demands.  An ongoing ANC investigation into whether nationalization
would work “was set up simply to kill off the debate on the
left about mine nationalization,” Peter Attard Montalto, a
London-based economist at Nomura Plc, wrote in an e-mailed note
yesterday. Yet, the review may recommend increased mining taxes,
greater black ownership of mines and “a more rapid expansion of
the state-owned mining company,” he said.  Malema, who declined an interview request, was raised by
his domestic-worker mother in Seshego, a township near
Polokwane, the capital of the northern Limpopo province. He took
seven years to get through high school, after repeating a year
twice. Now, he is driven around in a white Range Rover, sporting
colorful broad-collared shirts and wearing a Breitling watch.  ‘Madam’  He has repeatedly called for whites to be stripped of their
historical privileges to help poor blacks. ANC Secretary-General
Gwede Mantashe said Malema cost the party votes from minorities,
which make up a fifth of the population, in May 18 local
elections, because of comments he made that were perceived by
some as racist.  Before the polls, Malema labeled  Helen Zille , the leader of
the opposition  Democratic Alliance , a “madam” and called party
spokesman Lindiwe Mazibuko her “tea girl,” terms which
referred to a master-servant relationship typical of white-
minority rule. The DA’s share of the vote rose to 23.9 percent
from 16.6 percent in 2009.  Still, Malema has escaped stronger rebuke from President
Zuma and the ANC. “We won’t disown him” because of the
comments, Mantashe said.  “If you cross swords with him you run the risk of a major
battle with the Youth League,” said Mashele at the Centre for
Politics and Research. “They have to tread gingerly. They are
wary, because they know he wields a lot of influence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 