-- 
South Africa’s ANC to Reject Call on Mines Nationalization, Nomura Says

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-06-14T10:36:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/south-africa-s-anc-to-reject-call-on-mines-nationalization-nomura-says.html
South Africa ’s African National
Congress will probably reject a proposal by its youth wing to
nationalize the country’s mines after the ruling party concludes
a study next quarter, said Peter Attard Montalto, an economist
at Nomura Plc.  The ANC may call instead for “greater distribution of
mining wealth and of ownership, together with a more rapid
expansion of the state-owned mining company,” Montalto wrote in
an e-mailed note today.  ANC Youth League leader  Julius Malema  has lobbied the
ruling party to impose rules to ensure that the state owns at
least 60 percent of all the country’s mining assets. The ANC
agreed in September to investigate ways of increasing state
control in mining, including reviewing the Youth League’s
proposal. That study will be debated at the ANC’s policy
conference in 2012.  South  Africa  is the world’s biggest producer of platinum,
chrome, manganese and vanadium, Africa’s largest producer of
gold and the biggest source of coal for European  power plants .  “The review was set up simply to kill off the debate on
the left about mine nationalization and there has already been a
full commitment that nationalization isn’t government policy,”
Montalto said.  Political and policy risks are rising in South Africa as
the government moves to wider budget deficits, Montalto said.  South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said in his
budget speech in February that the government will trim the
fiscal deficit at a slower pace than previously forecast. The
shortfall is expected to reach 5.3 percent of gross domestic
product in the year through March, compared with the 4.6 percent
predicted in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 