-- 
South African Central Bank Posts Loss for Second Year in Bid to Curb Rand

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-06-14T14:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/south-african-central-bank-posts-loss-for-2nd-year-on-reserves.html
South Africa ’s central bank posted a
loss for a second consecutive year as the cost of building
foreign currency reserves to curb a stronger rand soared.  The loss widened to 1.17 billion rand ($172.9 million) in
the financial year through March from 1.05 billion rand in the
previous 12 months, the central bank said in its annual report,
released in the capital, Pretoria, today.  The bank bought $10.3 billion of foreign currency in the
year as near-zero  interest rates  in the U.S.,  Japan  and the euro
region fuelled demand for emerging-market assets, such as South
Africa, where the benchmark interest rate is 5.5 percent. Even
with those purchases the rand gained 14 percent against the
dollar and Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  and Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  described the rand as overvalued.  “The bank, with the assistance of the National Treasury,
has been able to continue with its policy of foreign-exchange
reserve accumulation,” Marcus said in the report.  The central bank issues domestic bonds to mop up excess
liquidity resulting from selling rand for dollars in a process
it refers to as “sterilization.”  The bonds have a higher
yield than the central bank receives on its investments in
foreign reserves, creating a loss.  “The need to sterilize the impact of these purchases of
foreign exchange on domestic liquidity resulted in the bank
reporting an after-tax loss for the second consecutive financial
year,” the bank said.  The  National Treasury  increased its foreign currency
deposits with the central bank by $5.3 billion last year to help
the bank build reserves, the report shows. The  Reserve Bank  also
bought $4 billion worth of foreign currency through longer-dated
dollar swaps transactions.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 