-- 
South Africa’s Wal-Mart Action ‘Aggressive,’ Pattison Says

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-06-14T06:46:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/south-africa-s-wal-mart-action-aggressive-massmart-ceo-pattison-says.html
South Africa ’s  Economic Development 
Ministry made an “aggressive intervention” in Wal-Mart Stores 
Inc.’s bid to buy a stake in  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , taking the
South African retailer by surprise, Chief Executive Officer Grant Pattison said.  “It was not handled as well as it could have been,”
Pattison said, according to a transcript of an interview
published in Johannesburg’s Business Report newspaper today.  South Africa’s Trade, Economic Development and Agriculture
Ministries made a joint bid to the Competition Tribunal to force
the world’s largest retailer to restrict imports if it buys a
controlling stake in Johannesburg-based Massmart, concerned
about job losses.  That action failed, with the competition authority on June
1 allowing Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart to proceed with
its 16.5 billion rand ($2.4 billion) purchase on condition no
jobs are cut for two years.  President  Jacob Zuma ’s ruling  African National Congress 
holds a political alliance with the Congress of South African
Trade Unions, the country’s biggest labor federation with about
2 million members.  Zuma appointed  Ebrahim Patel , who was head of the country’s
main clothing and textile union, as economic development
Minister in 2009. Patel wrote South Africa’s economic plan,
adopted by the government last year, that pledges to create 5
million jobs by 2020.  Cabinet ministers in South Africa are driven by varying
political ideologies, making them act independently, Pattison
said  “We are in the politics of appeasement,” Pattison said.
“We have the alliance and the complexities of how it remains
together and this dominates our political landscape. As far as I
can tell we have ministers of such varying political views that
they tend to act completely independently. The minister in
charge of a particular department is really acting according to
his own ideology.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  