-- 
Sudan Resumes Air Strikes in Southern Kordofan, UN Says

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-06-14T18:16:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/sudan-resumes-air-strikes-in-southern-kordofan-state-united-nations-says.html
Sudanese fighter jets dropped 11
bombs on the northern oil-producing state of Southern Kordofan
as government forces attacked units of Southern Sudan’s army,
drawing condemnation from the  United States .  The bombings occurred at about 10:30 a.m. local time, UN
spokesman Kouider Zerrouk said today by phone from Khartoum, the
capital. The bombings were in the mountains surrounding Kadugli,
the state capital, and they appeared to target an airfield in
the town of Kauda, Zerrouk said.  Clashes along the border have raised concern about a
resumption of the two-decade civil war in sub-Saharan Africa’s
third-biggest oil producer that ended with a 2005  peace
agreement  between the north and the south. The violence has
displaced more than 53,000 people, according to the UN.  The Sudanese government will continue to bomb areas in the
state where a rebellion is under way by members of Southern
 Sudan ’s armed forces, army spokesman Al-Sawarmi Khaled said
today by phone from Khartoum.  “The army is taking military actions to try to quell the
recent rebellion,” Khaled said. “These military operations
will continue until we completely end this rebellion.”  ‘Normalization’ Threatened  The U.S. “deplores” the violence and will take diplomatic
action if it doesn’t stop, said U.S. State Department spokesman
Mark Toner in a briefing today. “If Sudan doesn’t stand down,
the U.S. will not move further on the road map to
normalization,” Toner said in  Washington .  The U.S. is “willing to work with the Sudanese government,
reopen their case as a state sponsor of terror and other
measures that we believe would end Sudan’s isolation,” Toner
said. “But it’s incumbent on the government of Sudan to end
these types of escalations.”  Southern Kordofan borders the oil-rich states of Unity and
Upper Nile in  Southern Sudan , which will assume control of about
75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels of
oil when it becomes independent next month. The crude is pumped
mainly by China National Petroleum Corp., Malaysia’s Petroliam
Nasional Bhd and India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  Oil Production  The state accounts for about 115,000 barrels per day,
according to Sudan’s minister of state for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  Both forces in the state should “immediately allow access
to the humanitarian agencies, stop indiscriminate military
attacks against civilians, and respect and protect them in
accordance with international law,” Zerrouk said.  The bombings resumed a day after President Umar al-Bashir
returned from talks on the disputed border region of  Abyei  in
 Addis Ababa ,  Ethiopia , where he met with his southern
counterpart,  Salva Kiir , and officials from the  African Union .
The Sudanese army occupied Abyei on May 21 after the government
said it was attacked by Southern Sudan’s forces.  Sudanese state TV station today contradicted statements
yesterday by an African Union spokesman that al-Bashir had
agreed in principle to withdraw his army’s troops from Abyei
before Southern Sudan’s independence on July 9. The two sides
also agreed to allow Ethiopian peacekeepers to deploy in the
region, according to the African Union spokesman, Barney Afako.  Withdrawal Is ‘Critical’  “Their immediate withdrawal is critical if there is to be
any chance for a sustainable solution in the troubled territory
itself, but also to prevent  Africa ’s largest country from
plunging back into war and spoiling South Sudan’s long awaited
independence -- now just one month away,” the Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group  said yesterday in a statement.  The clashes in Southern Kordofan, which began on June 5,
may have broken out when northern forces tried to disarm members
of the Nuba ethnic group who fought on the side of Southern
Sudan in the civil war, according to the south’s army spokesman,
Philip Aguer. The fighting doesn’t involve the Southern Sudanese
army based in the regional capital, Juba, he said on June 5.  New York-based  Human Rights Watch  has accused Sudanese
government forces of “widespread abuses” in Southern Kordofan,
saying in a  July 10 statement  that witnesses reported house-to-
house searches and executions.  The forces were targeting civilians suspected of being
members of Southern Sudan’s ruling party, the Sudan People’s
Liberation Movement, the rights group said.  The Sudanese army today rejected the accusations.  “We don’t chase civilians,” Khaled said. “We are only
fighting the rebels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 