-- 
Sugar Rising on Worst Thai Port Congestion: Freight Markets

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-06-14T06:38:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/sugar-rising-as-thailand-port-congestion-worst-in-memory-freight-markets.html
Thailand , the world’s second-biggest
sugar exporter, is driving up global prices as the worst port
congestion in memory restricts shipments.  Vessels are waiting to load as much as 7 percent of this
year’s supply, said Piromsak Sasunee, chief executive officer of
Thai Sugar Trading Corp., the largest shipper. A shortage of
barges, a sunken ship blocking the biggest river and a lack of
labor combined to delay exports, he said. Prices climbed 19
percent to 24.38 cents a pound since May 6 and may go as high as
30 cents over the remainder of the year, said Alan Winney,
chairman of Queensland Sugar Ltd.,  Australia ’s biggest supplier.  “I’ve never seen so many ships waiting to load sugar,”
said Prasong Serisathien, 62, general manager of Siam Sugar
Export Co., Thailand’s second-biggest exporter. “Problems have
intensified because every step in the export chain from the
warehouse to the vessel is congested.”  Even after the rebound, sugar is still this year’s worst-
performer in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities.
Prices slumped as a supply glut emerged after two years of
shortages, potentially helping  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest
food company, trim the $1.7 billion it spends annually on the
sweetener. Supplies are needed now because of fewer cargoes from
 Brazil , the world’s largest exporter, Piromsak said.  Bulk and Bags  Thailand exports sugar in bulk and bags through ports at
Bangkok, and at Laem Chabang and Koh Si Chang in the Gulf of
Thailand. While the ports can handle about 1 million metric tons
of cargo a month, exporters are competing with suppliers of
steel and wood-chips. They are also contending with congested
roads and waterways. A sunken barge blocked the Chao Phraya
River for almost two weeks before being salvaged on June 12.  Exports may jump 52 percent to 7 million tons this year,
according to the country’s Office of the Cane & Sugar Board. It
will have little impact on the freight market because global
seaborne sugar shipments account for 1.5 percent of the bulk
commodities trade, according to data from Clarkson Research
Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest shipbroker.  About 90 percent of global trade moves by sea, the Round
Table of International Shipping Associations estimates.  Sugar is usually loaded on supramaxes, which carry about
52,000 tons, or handysizes, with a capacity of 28,000 tons.
Returns for owners of supramaxes fell 44 percent in the past 12
months to $14,005 a day, according to the London-based Baltic
Exchange, which publishes daily rates for more than 50 maritime
routes. Returns on handysizes fell 42 percent to $11,073.  Freight Rates  The plunge in freight rates reflects a glut of capacity
rather than a weakening world economy. The fleet of 2,613
handysizes expanded 6.5 percent in the past 12 months and new
vessels on order at shipyards are equal to 31 percent of
existing capacity, according to Redhill, England-based IHS
Fairplay, which compiles data on ships and ports.  While Clarkson is forecasting global trade in dry bulk
commodities to expand 4.1 percent this year, rates aren’t
expected to rebound anytime soon. Forward freight agreements,
traded by brokers and used to bet on future transport costs,
anticipate handysize returns of $10,169 next year and supramax
rates of $12,292, Baltic Exchange data show.  That contrasts with the sugar market, where buyers are
paying a premium to secure Thai supplies. The sweetener costs
2.5 cents a pound more than prices on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York , a global benchmark, and the premium will likely climb to 3
cents by the end of the year, Piromsak said.  Securing Supply  “The current line-up of vessels and the continued strength
in regional demand are expected to support Thai premiums,”
Peter de Klerk, an analyst at C. Czarnikow Sugar Futures Ltd.,
said in an e-mail. Czarnikow Group, based in  London , handles
about 10 percent of the global sugar trade.  Futures markets are reflecting concern about securing
supply in the next several months. The October contract on ICE
Futures U.S. closed at 24.38 cents on June 13. Sugar for
delivery a year later was at 23.24 cents. That also indicates
the surge in prices is not expected to last.  Should Brazilian cargoes accelerate and Thailand’s
congestion ease, prices may resume their drop to reflect the
return to a supply surplus. Harvests may outpace demand for a
second year in the next season, with the glut increasing to 6.5
million tons, from 1.6 million tons, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture estimates.  Smarties and Aero  Futures may go no higher than 26 cents in the remainder of
the year before declining to 20 cents, the median in a Bloomberg
survey of 17 analysts and traders shows. While prices may climb
as high as 30 cents on disruptions caused by poor weather or
shipping delays, they may bottom at 20 cents as global
production increases, said Queensland Sugar’s Winney.  Lower prices may help Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle,
which said on June 8 its raw-materials bill may rise by as much
as 3 billion Swiss francs ($3.6 billion) this year, the biggest
gain ever. The company, whose candy brands include Smarties and
Aero, spends about 1.5 billion Swiss francs a year on sugar.  For now, futures markets are trading in backwardation, when
near-term supplies are costlier than longer-dated contracts.  “If Thai exporters want to benefit from the inverted
market by shipping as much as they can in the next two to three
months,” transport capacity could be strained, said Pierre-
Henri Dietz, a Paris-based analyst at Sucden, the trading arm of
Sucres et Denrees SA.  Chinese Buying  Purchases by  China , the world’s second-biggest consumer
after  India , are surging. The country bought 157,508 tons in
April, compared with 16,736 tons a year earlier, according to
customs data compiled by Bloomberg. Imports in the marketing
year that ends in September will climb 19 percent to 1.82
million tons, the USDA estimates.  Demand for Thai sugar has strengthened because of problems
in Brazilian output, which normally represents about a quarter
of the global total. While production in Brazil’s main producing
region, the Center South, increased 6.8 percent in the second
half of May from a year earlier, output was down 47 percent from
mid-March to May 16, according to Unica, an industry group. The
area will harvest less than expected on lower yields, according
to Raizen, a sugar-cane venture between Cosan SA Industria &
Comercio and Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  “The market has bottomed out or is near to bottoming
out,” said  Abah Ofon , a Singapore-based analyst at Standard
Chartered Plc. “Anything that will add to supply concerns in
the short term is going to be seen as bullish.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  