-- 
Sunscreen Makers Face New Test for Cancer-Protection Claims

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-06-14T16:39:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/sunscreen-makers-need-fda-approval-for-cancer-protection-claims.html
Sunscreens made by Merck & Co.,
 Energizer Holdings Inc. (ENR)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  will have to pass
a test from U.S. regulators before they can be labeled as
protection from skin cancer under a new rule.  Starting next year, only sunscreens shown to protect
against both ultraviolet A and B rays with SPF values of 15 or
higher may be marketed as reducing the risk of cancer and early
skin aging, the  Food and Drug Administration   said  today. The
agency proposed banning SPF values higher than 50 because of
insufficient data that they provide greater protection.  More than 2 million people were treated for skin cancer in
2006, according to the  American Cancer Society . Lawmakers have
urged the FDA for more than a decade to revise sunscreen labels
to address cancer-causing UVA rays that penetrate deeper into
skin cells and aren’t blocked by window glass.  “Twenty percent of Americans will develop skin cancer in
their lifetime,” said Ronald L. Moy, president of the  American
Academy of Dermatology , in a press conference today at FDA
headquarters in  Silver Spring ,  Maryland . “Ultraviolet exposure
is the most preventable risk factor for skin cancer.”  SPF , or sun protection factor, refers to a product’s
ability to deflect UVB rays that cause sunburn. The rating
reflects the amount of time it will take skin to turn red;
sunscreen rated SPF 15 will provide 150 minutes of protection
for someone who normally burns in 10 minutes.  Testing Required  Companies will be able to use simple lab tests to
demonstrate that their UVA and UVB protection is proportional,
the FDA said. Some existing products probably meet the standard
already, according to  Janet Woodcock , director of the agency’s
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research.  Sunscreens that fail the test for UVA and UVB rays or have
an SPF value of less than 15 must carry a new warning that they
haven’t been shown to prevent skin cancer or early skin aging.  Companies will be prohibited from using the phrases
“waterproof” or “sweat proof;” claims of “water resistant”
will be allowed based on test results. The phrase “sun block”
will also be banned because it implies the sunscreens work
better than has been proven, Woodcock said.  The FDA has considered changes to sunscreen labeling  since 
1978. The agency  proposed  in 2007 to rank UVA protection with an
illustration of one to four stars. Many of the almost 3,000
people who submitted feedback to the plan said it was too
confusing, according to Woodcock.  ‘Right Direction’  “While my preference for the labeling rule would have been
a clear graphic indicating whether a product offers UVA
protection, this is clearly a step in the right direction,”
said Representative Nita Lowey, a New York Democrat, in an e-
mailed statement today.  The FDA will accept comments for 90 days on the  proposal  to
ban SPF values higher than 50. Several products on the market
now claim to protect to SPF 100 or higher.  Higher demand for Coppertone sun-care products helped
 Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck generate $1.3 billion
in sales of consumer products last year, according to the
company’s annual report. Merck acquired Coppertone in its $49
billion acquisition of Schering-Plough in November 2009.  Energizer Holdings’ Banana Boat and Hawaiian Tropic brands
together hold a leading market share in the U.S., according to
the company’s annual report for the fiscal year ended Sept. 30.  Annual sales increased 10 percent and have climbed for the
past five years because of increased consumer awareness of skin
damage from the sun, an aging population and more convenient
sprays, the St. Louis-based company said in November.  J&J’s skin care business had $3.45 billion in sales last
year, or 5.6 percent of revenue. The  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based company sells Neutrogena and Aveeno sunscreens.  E-mail and voice-mail messages seeking comment from Merck,
Energizer Holdings and J&J weren’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 