-- 
Swiss Franc Record May Force SNB to Keep Rates on Hold For Another Quarter

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-06-15T07:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/swiss-franc-record-may-force-snb-to-keep-rates-on-hold-for-another-quarter.html
The Swiss franc’s surge to a record
may force central bank President Philipp Hildebrand to keep
borrowing costs near zero for another quarter.  The currency has gained 3.5 percent in the past month,
prompting economists at Bank of America Merrill Lynch,  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  to push back their forecast for a
rate increase to the September meeting. The  Swiss National Bank 
will keep the benchmark interest rate at 0.25 percent tomorrow,
according to all 26 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  SNB policy makers have been weighing the threat of the
currency’s ascent hurting exporters such as watchmaker  Swatch
Group AG (UHR)  against the risks of near-zero rates fueling price
pressures. While central banks from  Frankfurt  to  Stockholm  have
started tightening monetary reins, Hildebrand has called the
franc a “burden” and forecast economic growth to weaken.  “The recent franc gains must have come as a shock to the
SNB,” said Alessandro Bee, an economist at Bank Sarasin who had
previously projected the SNB to raise the benchmark at
tomorrow’s meeting. “It won’t risk raising rates now.”  The SNB, whose attempts to weaken the franc in the 15
months through June 2010 contributed to a $21 billion loss last
year, will announce its decision at 9:30 a.m. in Bern, followed
by a briefing 30 minutes later. It will also publish its latest
inflation forecasts for this year and next.  Franc ‘Burden’  Increasing investor concern that  Greece  may be forced to
restructure its debt pushed the franc to a record 1.2004 versus
the euro on June 13.  Standard & Poor’s  on that day lowered its
Greek rating and said there’s a “significantly higher
likelihood of one or more defaults” in the euro region.  The Swiss currency, perceived as a haven during times of
turmoil, reached an all-time high of 83.27 centimes against the
dollar on June 7. It traded at 84.81 centimes versus the dollar
at 8:51 a.m. in Zurich and was at 1.2189 against the euro.  The  Swiss government  on June 14 lowered its 2012 growth
forecast, saying that any further franc gains would threaten
economic expansion “to a serious degree.”  “The currency appreciation, which already represented a
burden on Swiss exports during the last few months,” has
worsened over the past weeks, the government in Bern said that
day. “A significant downward correction of the franc is not
expected in the short run.”  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the Swiss maker of Baume &
Mercier watches, on May 19 missed full-year profit estimates
partly because of the franc. Swatch Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek has called the currency’s ascent “catastrophic.”  ‘Verbal Intervention’  While the SNB last year abandoned attempts to weaken the
franc by purchasing foreign currencies,  Alan McQuaid , chief
economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin, said there’s a
possibility of “verbal intervention” if the franc breaches
1.20 versus the euro.  “An excessively strong franc has prevented the SNB from
raising  interest rates  and threatens to hammer exports,” he
said. “But refraining from making a comment may in fact be the
most effective way for the SNB to stem franc gains. The central
bank may be best served by keeping markets guessing on whether
it will actually enter the market.”  The franc’s ascent has helped shield the economy from
imported price pressures. Swiss consumer prices rose 0.3 percent
in May from a year ago, calculated using a harmonized European
Union method. In the euro region, inflation was at 2.7 percent,
breaching the  European Central Bank ’s 2 percent limit for a
sixth month.  Global Tightening  Surging commodity costs have prompted central banks from
Sweden to Hungary,  China  and  India  to tighten their monetary
policy to fight price risks. The ECB on June 9 signaled it’s
ready to raise its benchmark interest rate further next month.  “Due to past form, the SNB is widely seen following the
ECB,” Ankita Dudani, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  London , said in an e-mailed note. “The
same is not true now as the franc strength on safe-haven flows
is keeping inflation very low. So even those who believe in
follow thy neighbor are unlikely to look for higher Swiss
rates.”  Interest-rate futures show that markets have postponed
expectations for the first increase from December to March 2012.
Swiss borrowing costs are the lowest among major global
economies after the U.S. and  Japan .  So far, the Swiss economy is showing few signs of slowdown.
Manufacturing growth accelerated in May, leading economic
indicators held at the highest in almost five years and
unemployment dropped to 3 percent, when adjusted for seasonal
swings. That’s the lowest in more than two years.  Dirk Schumacher , an economist at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
in Frankfurt, still expects SNB policy makers to raise borrowing
costs at their September meeting, saying the current rate level
is “too low for the Swiss economy.”  “Given the economy’s resilience, there are lots of reasons
for the SNB to raise rates,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist
at UniCredit Group in Munich. “But given the strong franc and
the low inflation, there are even more reasons not to do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  