-- 
Switzerland Lowers 2012 Growth Forecast, Calling Franc Threat to Outlook

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-06-14T06:46:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/switzerland-lowers-2012-growth-forecast-calling-franc-threat-to-outlook.html
The Swiss government lowered its
forecast for 2012 economic growth and said a further
appreciation of the franc poses risks to the outlook.  Swiss gross domestic product will rise 1.5 percent next
year instead of the 1.9 percent projected in March, the  State
Secretariat for Economic Affairs  in Bern said in a faxed
 statement  today. For 2011, the government left its growth
projection unchanged at 2.1 percent.  “Economic growth in Switzerland has been solid so far,”
the state secretariat  said . “However, the currency
appreciation, which already represented a burden on Swiss
exports the last few months, has jumped even higher over the
last few weeks. With the recent added strength to the franc, new
risks have emerged.”  The franc weakened against the euro after the release and
traded at 1.2083 at 8:39 a.m. in Zurich after reaching a record
1.2004 yesterday. It was at 83.74 centimes versus the dollar.  The Swiss currency has appreciated 15 percent against the
euro over the past year, as investors sought a haven from the
region’s fiscal crisis.  Standard & Poor’s  said yesterday that
 Greece  is “increasingly likely” to face a debt restructuring
and the first sovereign default in the euro area’s history.  ‘Strong Appreciation’  With exports accounting for about half of GDP, the Swiss
economy has been vulnerable to currency swings. Cie. Financiere
Richemont AG, the Geneva-based maker of Jaeger-LeCoultre
watches, on May 19 reported full-year profit that missed analyst
estimates partly because of a stronger franc.  “It’s difficult to assess how long this phase of strong
appreciation will continue,” the state secretariat said. “When
firms are forced to reduce their margin, it may be assumed that
such a process cannot go on for long without repercussions, in
the medium term on investments, wages and employment. Should the
upward pressure on the franc persist, significant negative
effects on export volumes” can be expected.  Exports may rise 4.6 percent in 2011 and 3 percent in 2012,
the state secretariat said. It had previously forecast exports
to increase 4.1 percent and 4.7 percent this year and next,
respectively. Investment in equipment and software may rise 3
percent in 2012 instead of 3.5 percent, it said.  Switzerland ’s economy has performed well this year “due to
the strong support of domestic demand,” the state secretariat
said. Household spending may rise 1.3 percent in 2011 and 1.7
percent in 2012, it forecast.  While the franc’s appreciation is clouding export
prospects, it’s also shielding the country from price pressures
by making imports cheaper. Inflation will probably remain
“significantly” below 1 percent this year and next, according
to the state secretariat.  The Swiss central bank, led by Philipp Hildebrand, may keep
its benchmark interest rate at 0.25 percent when policy makers
meet on June 16, according to a Bloomberg News survey. The
Zurich-based  Swiss National Bank  will also publish its latest
economic forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  