-- 
Syrian Refugee Flow to Turkey Accelerates as 8,500 Are Housed Near Border

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-06-14T16:09:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/syrian-refugee-flow-to-turkey-accelerates-as-8-500-are-housed-near-border.html
The flow of Syrian refugees to
 Turkey  accelerated, stretching the country’s capacity to
accommodate them, after President Bashar al-Assad’s forces
attacked the northwestern town of Jisr al-Shughour.  There are now 8,538 refugees in tent cities in the border
province of Hatay, up from 6,817 yesterday, the state-run
Anatolia news service reported, citing the government agency for
disaster management. Turkey’s Red Crescent, which had facilities
to shelter 8,000 people as of June 11, today set up a fifth camp
ground that can accommodate an additional 785 people.  Syrian refugees in Turkey more than doubled in the past
three days as Assad’s army took full control over Jisr al-
Shughour in an operation described by the government as
targeting armed rebels responsible for the death of 120 security
personnel last week. Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s
stance toward Syria hardened with the approach of the June 12
elections in Turkey, with the premier saying that he will speak
with Assad in “very different way.”  “From Turkey’s point of view, a deterioration of relations
with Syria, which would mean its influence in the Arab world
would affected, would be very extremely troubling,” said James Ker-Lindsay, a fellow at the  London School  of Economics who
focuses on security, peace and conflict. “The idea of Turkey
becoming a major international power has relied on the fact that
it has been working to strengthen its ties.”  Leaders Speak  Assad called Turkey’s prime minister to congratulate him on
winning a third term in office, Anatolia said. The countries
came to the brink of war in 1998 and the leaders have improved
relations since Assad became president in 2000.  Erdogan told Assad that he must avoid violence, halt the
unrest and enact reforms, according to Anatolia. Turkey, which
has promised to keep the borders open, also expressed its
apprehension about the flood of refugees, it said.  “We are currently meeting the needs of Syrians coming to
Turkey,” Deputy Prime Minister Cemil Cicek said today in a
televised news conference. “Our hope is that the situation in
 Syria  will be resolved as soon as possible, restoring peace,
calm and stability.”  A total of 1,297 civilians and 340 members of the army and
security forces have been killed since the protests started in
mid-March, the Syrian Observatory said today in its website.
Most of the inhabitants of Jisr al-Shughour have fled, according
to the the human rights group.  Opposition supporters and local residents have said the
security forces were executed in the northwestern town after
refusing to fire on pro-democracy protesters, and described
random shootings and the torching of fields by government
troops.  Ankara Meeting  Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu will host a meeting of
Turkish ambassadors in Ankara tomorrow to discuss developments
in Syria and other Arab countries, according to Anatolia.  France , which together with the U.K. proposed a motion in
the United Security Council on June 8 condemning Assad’s
crackdown, is seeking to increase cooperation with Turkey over
Syria, President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said in a June 13 letter to
Erdogan that was released today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 