-- 
U.A.E. Shares Rise on Optimism Markets May Secure MSCI Upgrade

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-06-14T11:59:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/u-a-e-shares-rise-on-optimism-markets-may-secure-msci-upgrade.html
United Arab Emirates shares gained,
with Dubai’s measure rising to the highest in almost two weeks,
on optimism the nation will be upgraded by index provider  MSCI
Inc. (MSCI)  to emerging-market status next week.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, increased 0.7 percent.  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the
U.A.E.’s biggest bank by assets, surged to the highest since
2009. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  climbed 0.7 percent to 1,567.91,
the highest since June 1, at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. The Abu
Dhabi  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  increased 0.1 percent and the  Bloomberg
GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  rose 0.1 percent at 2:57 p.m. in  Riyadh .  “It appears that there is some optimism that the U.A.E.
will be promoted at MSCI,” said Waleed Al Khateeb, senior
finance manager at Dubai-based Daman Securities LLC. “Volumes
are low as investors wait for the announcement.”  MSCI, which classifies six of the seven Gulf markets as
frontier, will announce its decision on whether to raise the
U.A.E. to emerging-market status on June 21 after examining,
among other measures, economic development, trading volumes and
market accessibility. The country’s exchanges may attract $1.5
billion if the nation secures the upgrade, Sebastien Henin, who
helps oversee $110 million at The National Investor in  Abu
Dhabi , said in April. Qatar is also under review for a possible
reclassification.  Trading Volumes  Stock exchanges in the U.A.E. said May 29 that market
participants are ready to use an upgraded trading system, the
so-called delivery-versus-payment. DvP is one of the criteria
for an upgrade at MSCI. Frontier markets is a designation that
typically applies to economies and financial markets that are
less developed.  Saudi Arabia ’s market isn’t classified at MSCI.
Qatar’s benchmark index gained 0.3 percent.  About 94 million shares were traded in Dubai today,
compared with a 12-month daily average of 123 million shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emaar rose to 3.12 dirhams, the highest since June 9.
Emirates NBD increased 3.3 percent to 4.39 dirhams.  Drake &
Scull International (DSI)  PJSC advanced 0.6 percent to 99.9 fils after
the U.A.E. construction company said it won contracts valued at
155 million dirhams ($42 million) in  Kuwait .  Bahrain’s BB All Share Index gained 0.4 percent. Oman’s
benchmark stock index advanced 0.1 percent and Kuwait’s gauge
climbed 0.2 percent. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  lost
0.2 percent.  DvP is a securities industry procedure in which payment for
a security must be made when the security is delivered. Usually,
the payment is made to a bank, which in turn pays for the
security.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  