-- 
U.K. Consumer Confidence Climbs the Most in 5 1/2 Years in May

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-14T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/u-k-consumer-confidence-surges-as-royal-wedding-creates-feel-good-factor.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  jumped the
most in 5 1/2 years in May as Britons became less pessimistic
about spending and the extra public holiday for the royal
wedding led to a “feel-good factor,”  Nationwide Building
Society  said.  An index of sentiment gained 11 points from April to 55,
the highest in five months, the customer-owned lender said in an
e-mailed report today. That’s the biggest monthly increase since
November 2005 and lifts the gauge from a level equal to that
seen in the depths of the recession in March 2009.  “It is too early to say whether consumer confidence is in
a sustained recovery,” said  Robert Gardner , chief economist at
Swindon, England-based Nationwide. “There are still strong
downward pressures, not least higher-than-hoped for inflation
and continued concern around employment, whilst recent
announcements of large domestic energy price hikes are likely to
dampen consumer mood.”  U.K. inflation is outpacing wage growth, squeezing
consumers whose confidence is being undermined by concerns about
the government’s budget cuts. Annual price growth held at 4.5
percent in May, while a report today may show that wage growth
averaged 2.1 percent in the three months through April.  A gauge of whether Britons’ think now is a good time to buy
household goods or major purchases such as a car or a home rose
16 points to 79 in May. An index of expectations for the economy
in six months’ time advanced 17 points to 76. Both measures were
at their highest level since December.  Economic Outlook  The percentage of the 1,000 people questioned who said they
expect the economy will be worse in six months’ time decreased
13 percentage points to 26 percent last month. The proportion
who said this is a good time to make a major purchase rose to 27
percent from 20 percent in April.  Still, Nationwide said “underlying” sentiment remains
“cautious,” pointing to the index measuring consumers’ view of
the current situation. It rose 3 points to 23, the same level as
in May 2010. Iberdrola SA’s Scottish Power unit has said it will
raise gas and electricity prices from August.  The  Bank of England  held its key interest rate at a record
low last week. In May, the majority of the bank’s policy makers
said a rate increase now could undermine consumer confidence.  “We would need to see consumer confidence continue to rise
over the coming months for us to be able to say that the
economic recovery is truly being felt by the British public,”
Gardner said.  Nationwide’s survey also showed that Britons became less
pessimistic about the housing market last month. They expect the
value of their home to fall by 0.2 percent over the next six
months, compared with a prediction of 1.1 percent in April.  In a separate report, the Building Societies Association in
 London  said the share of Britons who think now is not a good
time to buy a home fell in June to 21 percent from 29 percent in
March. The share who said it is a good time to buy was unchanged
at 41 percent, the association said, citing a poll by YouGov
Plc, which questioned 2,023 adults between June 3 and June 6.  The Nationwide survey was carried out between April 25 and
May 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  