-- 
U.S. Wholesale Prices Rise 0.2% on Plastics, Fuel, Textiles

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-06-14T13:12:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/u-s-wholesale-prices-rise-0-2-on-plastics-fuel-textiles-2-.html
Wholesale costs in the U.S. rose
more than forecast in May, led by higher prices for fuel,
plastics and the fastest rise in 30 years for apparel and
textile costs.  The 0.2 percent increase in the producer-price index
compares with the 0.1 percent median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, Labor Department figures showed
today in Washington. The so-called core measure, which excludes
volatile food and energy costs, increased 0.2 percent, matching
projections.  The costs of apparel and other fabricated textile products
rose 1.0 percent in May, the fastest since 1.3 percent in April
1981. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  has reiterated that
he expects commodity costs to ease in coming months.  “Consumers don’t have the income to sustain the higher
food and energy prices, so they’re going to cut back on spending
elsewhere,” said economist Neil Dutta at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in  New York  after the report. “When you have five
people competing for every job, wages are going to remain very
weak, and that’s what ultimately drives inflation.”  Sales at retailers fell 0.2 percent, less than forecast, in
May as slumping demand for autos and electronics overshadowed
gains among Internet merchants and restaurants, the Commerce
Department said in a separate report.  Markets, Estimates  Stock-index futures added to earlier gains after the
reports. The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
maturing in September rose 1.1 percent to 1,279.5 at 8:45 a.m.
in New York.  Treasury securities  fell, pushing the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note up to 3.05 percent from 2.99 percent late
yesterday.  Estimates for producer prices were based on forecasts from
74 economists. Projections ranged from a decline of 0.4 percent
to an increase of 0.6 percent, after a 0.8 percent advance in
April.  Wholesale prices excluding volatile food and energy costs
were projected to rise 0.2 percent from the prior month, the
Bloomberg survey showed. The so-called core index rose 0.3
percent in April. A 1.2 percent increase in plastics prices that
was the largest since July 2008 led the May advance in the core,
the Labor Department said.  Compared with a year earlier, companies paid 7.3 percent
more for goods last month, the fastest rise since September
2008.  Fuel Costs  Fuel costs rose 1.5 percent as gasoline prices increased
2.7 percent, today’s report showed. The cost of food decreased
1.4 percent in May.  Core wholesale prices climbed 2.1 percent in the 12 months
ended in May.  The 2011 results of Under Amour Inc., which makes sporting
apparel, shoes and gear, are being “adversely impacted” by raw
material inflation, high exposure to Chinese wage inflation and
exposure to oil-based materials, according to Brad Dickerson,
chief financial officer of the Baltimore-based company.  “We are taking a much broader view at retail price
increases to help combat accelerating costing pressures,”
Dickerson said during a June 9 conference call with investors.
“We are optimistic that some of the apparel cost pressures will
begin to abate” in the second half of 2012.  Producer prices are calculated based on costs on the
Tuesday of the week containing the 13th of the month, which may
influence month-to-month changes.  Prices for producers “continued to increase in most
regions,” said the Fed’s  Beige Book , based on information
collected from the central bank’s districts on or before May 27.
Prices for consumers “increased only modestly, except for food
and energy prices, which continued to escalate,” the June 8
report said.  Inflation  The central bank’s preferred price gauge, which excludes
food and fuel, rose 1 percent in April from a year earlier. Fed
policy makers aim for long-run overall inflation of 1.7 percent
to 2 percent, according to their April forecast.  Fed Chairman Bernanke said the day before the Beige Book
was released that he doesn’t see “much evidence that inflation
is becoming broad-based or ingrained.” The chairman said the
economy will likely pick up as fuel costs moderate and parts
supply disruptions ease as factories in  Japan  recover from the
Asian nation’s March natural disasters.  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department. Prices of goods imported into
the U.S. climbed 0.2 percent in May from the prior month, data
showed last week. Costs advanced 12.5 percent from May 2010, the
biggest 12-month increase since September 2008.  Consumer prices, the broadest of the three measures,
probably rose 0.1 percent in May and the core index probably had
a 0.2 percent gain, according to the median forecasts of 78
economists who responded to a Bloomberg survey as of 5 p.m.
yesterday. The Labor Department releases the consumer price
index report tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  