-- 
U.S. Bill Would Raise Shareholder Limit for Closely-Held Facebook, Twitter

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-06-14T20:49:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/u-s-bill-would-raise-shareholder-limit-for-closely-held-facebook-twitter.html
Eight U.S. lawmakers backed a bill
that would allow closely held firms including Facebook Inc. and
Twitter Inc. to have as many as 1,000 shareholders before being
required to file public financial statements.  The legislation, introduced today by Representative David Schweikert of  Arizona , would also exclude employees and
accredited investors from the rules, which currently set the
ceiling at 500 investors.  “The underlying premise is that there is lots of capital
sitting on the sidelines and for some reason it’s not flowing
into the market,” Schweikert, a Republican on the Financial
Services Committee, said in a telephone interview. “The current
rules just seem to be out of date.”  The legislation is the latest attempt by lawmakers to
revise the regulations that governed closely held firms since
1964. Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican and
chairman of the  Oversight and Government Reform Committee , has
called on Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  to loosen the rules.  Closely held companies with fewer than 500 shareholders
aren’t required to disclose financial data, so investors often
don’t know key figures such as revenue, profit,  cash flow  and
debt obligations.  Schapiro, in responses to Issa in a letter and in
testimony, said the SEC is in the midst of studying whether the
growth of closely held companies is being hindered by limits on
the numbers of shareholders they can have.  Goldman Plan  Regulators focused on markets for trading private shares
after  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  planned and then dropped a plan
to offer as much as $1.5 billion in Facebook shares to U.S.
investors.  Schweikert, whose seven co-sponsors include Representative
Jim Himes, a Democrat also on the  Financial Services Committee ,
said he would like to have a hearing on the issue this summer,
with the possibility of attaching the bill to a package of
measures moving through the panel.  “At worst, we telegraph to the regulators that there’s a
congressional will to move in this direction,” Schweikert said.  Secondary markets have grown increasingly popular as
funding sources, in part because requirements imposed by the
2002  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  and last year’s Dodd-Frank Act have made
accessing public markets more expensive. The trend has spawned
new exchanges for unregistered shares, including New York-based
SecondMarket Inc., San Bruno, California-based SharesPost Inc.,
 San Mateo , California-based Xpert Financial Inc. and New York-
based Gate Technologies LLC.  Trading on those exchanges is reserved for so-called
accredited investors -- people with at least $1 million in
assets or $200,000 in annual income -- and a basic premise of
securities laws is that they are sophisticated enough to fend
for themselves without regulators’ protection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  