-- 
U.S. May Producer Price Index Report (Text)

-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-06-14T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/u-s-may-producer-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
U.S. producer price report for May released by the Labor
Department.  The Producer Price Index for finished goods rose 0.2 percent
in May, seasonally adjusted, the  U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics  reported today. This advance followed increases of
0.8 percent in April and 0.7 percent in March. At the earlier
stages of processing, prices received by manufacturers of
intermediate goods climbed 0.9 percent in May, and the crude
goods index declined 4.1 percent. On an unadjusted basis,
prices for finished goods moved up 7.3 percent for the 12
months ended May 2011, the largest year -over-year gain since
an 8.8-percent advance in September 2008.  Stage of Processing Analysis  Finished goods  The May advance in the finished goods index can be traced
primarily to prices for finished energy goods, which rose 1.5
percent. The index for finished goods less foods and energy
moved up 0.2 percent. By contrast, prices for finished
consumer foods fell 1.4 percent in May.  Finished energy:  The index for finished energy goods
increased 1.5 percent in May, the eighth straight monthly
advance. Prices for gasoline moved up 2.7 percent and
accounted for about three-quarters of the May rise. Increases
in the indexes for residential electric power and finished
lubricants also were major factors in the advance in finished
energy goods prices.  Finished core:  The index for finished goods less foods and
energy moved up 0.2 percent in May, the sixth consecutive
rise. A 1.2-percent increase in prices for plastic products
led the May advance. Higher prices for converted paper and
paperboard products also contributed to the rise in the
finished core index.  Finished foods:  The index for finished consumer foods fell
1.4 percent in May, the largest decrease since a 2.4-percent
drop in June 2010. Almost forty percent of the May decline can
be attributed to prices for fresh and dry vegetables, which
moved down 12.2 percent.  Intermediate goods  The Producer Price Index for intermediate materials, supplies,
and components moved up 0.9 percent in May, the tenth
consecutive monthly increase. About two-thirds of the May rise
can be traced to a 0.9-percent advance in prices for
intermediate goods other than foods and energy. A 1.4-percent
jump in the index for intermediate energy goods also
contributed to the increase in intermediate goods prices. By
contrast, the index for intermediate foods and feeds moved
down 0.4 percent in May. For the 12 months ended May 2011,
intermediate goods prices rose 10.3 percent, the largest gain
since a 15.3-percent jump for the 12 months ended September
2008.  Intermediate core:  Prices for intermediate goods other than
foods and energy moved up 0.9 percent in May, the tenth
straight monthly rise. Over half of the May increase can be
attributed to the index for industrial chemicals, which
climbed 4.1 percent. Higher prices for plastic products and
for processed yarns and threads also were factors in the
advance in the intermediate core index.  Intermediate energy:  The index for intermediate energy goods
advanced 1.4 percent in May, the smallest rise since a 0.4-
percent increase in September 2010. Jet fuel prices, which
climbed 3.6 percent, were a major contributor to the May
advance. Higher prices for gasoline and asphalt also were
significant factors in the increase in the intermediate energy
goods index.  Intermediate foods:  The index for intermediate foods and
feeds fell 0.4 percent in May, the first decline since July
2010. Leading the May decrease, meat prices dropped 3.2
percent.  Crude goods  The Producer Price Index for crude materials for further
processing decreased 4.1 percent in May. For the 3-month
period ending in May, crude materials prices moved down 0.8
percent following a 13.6-percent increase from November to
February. In May, about half of the broad-based monthly
decline can be attributed to a 5.2-percent drop in the index
for crude energy materials. Also contributing to the May
decrease, prices for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs fell 4.4
percent and the index for crude nonfood materials less energy
moved down 0.9 percent.  Crude energy:  The index for crude energy materials declined
5.2 percent in May. From February to May, prices for crude
energy materials fell 1.2 percent subsequent to a 17.0-percent
increase for the 3 months ending in February. The monthly
decrease was the result of a 10.9-percent drop in crude
petroleum prices.  Crude foods:  The index for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs
decreased 4.4 percent in May. From February to May, prices for
crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs edged down 0.3 percent
following a 12.2-percent rise in the previous 3-month period.
Over thirty percent of the monthly decline in prices for crude
foodstuffs and feedstuffs can be traced to a 5.8-percent
decrease in the index for slaughter steers and heifers. Lower
prices for slaughter hogs also contributed to the fall in the
crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs index.  Crude core:  The index for crude nonfood materials less energy
moved down 0.9 percent in May. For the 3-month period ending
in May, crude core prices decreased 0.7 percent after
advancing 10.0 percent from November to February. A major
contributor to the monthly decline was the index for copper
base scrap, which fell 4.7 percent. A decrease in the index
for corn also was a significant factor in the crude core
decline.  Services Analysis  Trade industries:  The Producer Price Index for the net output
of total trade industries moved up 1.6 percent in May, the
largest increase since a 2.2-percent rise in January 2007.
(Trade indexes measure changes in margins received by
wholesalers and retailers.) Over sixty percent of the May
advance can be traced to a 2.4-percent rise in margins
received by wholesale trade industries. Higher margins
received by gasoline stations and non-discount department
stores also contributed to the increase in the total trade
industries index.  Transportation and warehousing industries:  The Producer Price
Index for the net output of transportation and warehousing
industries moved up 0.4 percent in May, the eighth straight
advance. Leading the May increase was a 2.4-percent rise in
prices received by line-haul railroads. Advances in the
indexes for the U.S. Postal Service and for couriers also were
factors in the May rise in the transportation and warehousing
industries index.  Traditional  service industries :  The Producer Price Index for
the net output of total traditional service industries
declined 0.2 percent in May following a 0.7-percent increase
in April. Leading this decrease, prices received by the
depository credit intermediation industry group fell 4.5
percent. Declines in the indexes for automotive equipment
rental and leasing and for direct life insurance carriers also
contributed to the drop in the total traditional service
industries index.  The Producer Price Index for June 2011 is scheduled to be
released on Thursday, July 14, 2011 at 8:30 a.m. (EDT).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Tanzi in Washington 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  