-- 
U.S. Wholesale Prices Rose 0.2% in May

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-06-14T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/u-s-wholesale-prices-rose-0-2-in-may.html
Wholesale costs in the U.S. rose
more than forecast in May, led by higher prices for fuel
and the fastest rise in 30 years for apparel and textiles.  The 0.2 percent increase in the producer-price index
compares with the 0.1 percent median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, Labor Department figures showed
today in  Washington . The so-called core measure, which excludes
volatile food and energy costs, increased 0.2 percent, matching
projections.  The costs of apparel and other fabricated textile products
rose 1.0 percent in May, the fastest since 1.3 percent in April
1981.  Higher input prices mean companies like Under Armour Inc.
are passing on increased costs to consumers, whose incomes may
be strained by unemployment above 9 percent. At the same time,
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  has reiterated that he
expects commodity costs to ease in coming months.  “There is a bit more of an inflationary impulse in the
system than most people appreciate, though it is a modest
impulse,”  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist at RBC Capital
Markets Corp. in  New York , said before the report. “Companies’
margins are being hurt so they’re going to be looking to pass on
a lot of these costs.”  Commodity prices have retreated since the end of April on
concern rising  interest rates  in countries from  China  to  India 
will slow the global economy.  Oil prices  that rose amid Middle
Eastern unrest and helped lift the index in April have since
moderated.  Crude oil  futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange
reached $113.93 a barrel on April 29, the highest level since
September 2008, before closing at $102.7 a barrel on May 31.  Crude Oil  Crude for July delivery  was at $97.41 a barrel, up 18
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 6:17 a.m. New York. The contract yesterday declined
$1.99, or 2 percent, to $97.30, the lowest settlement since May
17. Futures have gained 30 percent in the past year.  Estimates for producer prices were based on forecasts from
74 economists. Projections ranged from a decline of 0.4 percent
to an increase of 0.6 percent, after a 0.8 percent advance in
April.  Wholesale prices excluding volatile food and energy costs
were projected to rise 0.2 percent from the prior month, the
Bloomberg survey showed. The so-called core index rose 0.3
percent in April.  Compared with a year earlier, companies paid 7.3 percent
more for goods last month after a 6.8 percent rise in April.  Core wholesale prices climbed 2.1 percent in the 12 months
ended in May.  The 2011 results of Under Amour, which makes sporting
apparel, shoes and gear, are being “adversely impacted” by raw
material inflation, high exposure to Chinese wage inflation and
exposure to oil-based materials, according to Brad Dickerson,
chief financial officer of the Baltimore-based company.  “We are taking a much broader view at retail price
increases to help combat accelerating costing pressures,”
Dickerson said during a June 9 conference call with investors.
“We are optimistic that some of the apparel cost pressures will
begin to abate” in the second half of 2012.  Under Armour  “We haven’t met any reluctance from the consumers when we
push price,” Under Armour Chief Executive Officer Kevin Plank
said during the meeting. “With the growing expenses that we’re
all feeling for the manufacturing basis, I think that we have
room for that consumer and we haven’t tried to push that yet.”  Fuel costs rose 1.5 percent as gasoline prices increased
2.7 percent, today’s report showed. The cost of food decreased
1.4 percent in May.  Producer prices are calculated based on costs on the
Tuesday of the week containing the 13th of the month, which may
influence month-to-month changes.  Prices for producers “continued to increase in most
regions,” said the Fed’s  Beige Book , based on information
collected from the central bank’s districts on or before May 27.
Prices for consumers “increased only modestly, except for food
and energy prices, which continued to escalate,” the June 8
report said.  The central bank’s preferred price gauge, which excludes
food and fuel, rose 1 percent in April from a year earlier. Fed
policy makers aim for long-run overall inflation of 1.7 percent
to 2 percent, according to their April forecast.  Bernanke Inflation  Fed Chairman Bernanke said the day before the Beige Book
was released that he doesn’t see “much evidence that inflation
is becoming broad-based or ingrained.” The chairman said the
economy will likely pick up as fuel costs moderate and parts
supply disruptions ease as factories in  Japan  recover from the
Asian nation’s March natural disasters.  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department. Prices of goods imported into
the U.S. climbed 0.2 percent in May from the prior month, data
showed last week. Costs advanced 12.5 percent from May 2010, the
biggest 12-month increase since September 2008.  Consumer prices, the broadest of the three measures,
probably rose 0.1 percent in May and the core index probably had
a 0.2 percent gain, according to the median forecasts of 78
economists who responded to a Bloomberg survey as of 5 p.m.
yesterday. The Labor Department releases the consumer price
index report tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  