-- 
Agencies Join to Target Counterfeit Military Parts

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s ,   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-06-15T13:03:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/u-s-agencies-band-together-to-target-counterfeit-military-parts.html
(Corrects 14th paragraph to show 200, not 2,000 cases)  U.S.  law enforcement  and defense
officials are banding together to intercept counterfeit military
parts sold to the government, according to a federal immigration
agency.  The effort, called Operation Chain Reaction, involves
 Immigration and Customs Enforcement,   Customs and Border
Protection , the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , the Defense
Criminal Investigative Service and Air Force, Navy and Army
investigative units.  The agencies will rely on the National Intellectual
Property Rights Coordination Center, a government task force
focused on intellectual property theft, ICE said.  “Counterfeiting has evolved to such a great extent that
intellectual-property thieves will sell just about anything that
will make them a buck, with no regard for the integrity of the
federal supply chain or the safety of our war fighters,” ICE
Director  John Morton  said in a statement.  Immigration and customs investigators made 19,959 seizures
of suspected counterfeit materials valued at $1.4 billion in
fiscal 2010, a 34 percent increase from 2009, according to ICE.  Senate Armed Services Committee  Chairman Carl Levin told
reporters at a press conference that  China  has refused to issue
visas to panel investigators looking for the source of
counterfeit electronics being supplied to U.S. weapons systems.  Committee Probe  The committee in March began a probe into counterfeit
parts, including microprocessors that were purchased by the Air
Force for the flight control computers in  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s F-15
fighter jets and microcircuits for the U.S. Missile Defense
Agency.  Chinese officials “cannot help themselves by denying
access to their country for people on an official Senate
mission,” said Levin, a Michigan Democrat. “That will hurt
them.”  Levin and Arizona Senator  John McCain , the panel’s top
Republican, sent letters to the Chinese consulate in Washington
to request the visas. The lawmakers said at the press conference
that the Chinese officials had asked them to postpone the
investigators’ trip.  The investigators have received reports that counterfeit
electronic parts originated from Shenzhen, in  Guangdong
province , Levin said.  The Senate’s investigation involves “law enforcement and
China’s judicial sovereignty, which should be respected,”  Wang Baodong , the spokesman of the Chinese embassy in the U.S., said
in an e-mailed statement. “We’ve been telling the congressmen’s
offices that such issues are supposed to be raised through the
normal channel of China-U.S. law enforcement cooperation, and
we’re ready to stay in touch with the U.S. side.”  45 Active Investigations  The Defense Criminal Investigative Service, which is part
of the Defense Department Inspector General’s office, has 45
active probes of  counterfeit goods , according to James Ives, who
is in charge of investigative operations.  The  Government Accountability Office , Congress’s
investigative arm, found last March that suppliers who knowingly
misrepresent the identity or pedigree of parts have the
potential to “seriously disrupt the Department of Defense
supply chain, delay missions and affect the integrity of weapon
systems.”  ICE investigated about 2,000 intellectual-property cases in
fiscal year 2010, resulting in 365 arrests, 216 indictments and
170 convictions, according to the agency.  Ives said the DCIS also is investigating over 200
allegations of substandard or non-conforming parts that do not
meet military specifications. The cases may involve counterfeits
or improperly made parts, he said.  Lynn Warning  Deputy Defense Secretary Bill Lynn, in an article in
Foreign Affairs last year on the Pentagon’s strategy to counter
cyber intrusions, said that “already, counterfeit hardware has
been detected in systems that the DOD has procured.”  Pentagon spokesman Colonel  David Lapan  said on Tuesday that
Defense Department personnel have participated in the Senate
Armed Services Committee’s investigation. Personnel from the
Defense Logistics Agency, the U.S.  Air Force  and Navy were among
those who took part, Lapan said in an e-mailed statement.  The GAO report disclosed the Army took delivery of
counterfeit seatbelt clasps, the Navy computer routers and the
Air Force microprocessors.  Ives pointed to the case of a Saudi national living in
 Texas  who was  found guilty  in January 2010 of trafficking in
counterfeit  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  “Gigabit Interface Converters”
for a Marine Corps contract in  Iraq .  The man bought 200 converters online from a Hong Kong-based
Chinese vendor for $25 each. He billed the Marines $595 apiece
before he was caught.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  