-- 
UniCredit May Need to Raise $8.7 Billion for Capital Rules, Survey Finds

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-06-15T15:13:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/unicredit-may-need-to-raise-8-7-billion-for-capital-rules-survey-finds.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) , the only Italian bank
facing stress tests that hasn’t announced plans to sell new
shares, will need to raise 6 billion euros ($8.7 billion) to
meet regulators’ stricter capital requirements, analysts said.  The Milan-based lender, the country’s biggest, will
probably approve a capital increase for that amount this year,
according to the median estimate of 20 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The estimates ranged from 3.9 billion euros to 8
billion euros.  While the “considerable capital generation is encouraging,
concerns about a possible capital increase are unlikely to
subside in the near term,” Andrea Vercellone, a London-based
analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, wrote in a May 16 report. The
brokerage firm estimates a capital shortfall of 7 billion euros.  Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni , who will present
a new business plan by the end of the year, has repeatedly said
that the bank has adequate capital to comply with the Basel III
rules announced so far. UniCredit is reviewing its strategy to
increase profitability after last year’s management shakeup led
Ghizzoni to replace Alessandro Profumo at the top job.  “Basel III may create huge problems,” Ghizzoni said at a
June 9 conference. “I agree with stricter rules, but the
problem is that investors expect banks to have today the ratios
required by regulators in 2019.” A UniCredit spokesman said the
company has no new comment to make on the topic.  Stress Tests  UniCredit is among 90 European banks under review in a
second round of stress tests. The lender is expected to maintain
a core Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 5 percent under the
stress-test scenarios, according to the EBA, which is carrying
them out. This year’s examinations will include a review of how
lenders would handle a 0.5 percent economic contraction in the
euro area in 2011 as well as a 15 percent drop in European
equity markets.  “Even if UniCredit is able to pass the test, the market is
expecting a capital increase,” said  Alessandro Frigerio , a  fund
manager  at RMJ Sgr in Milan who doesn’t hold UniCredit shares.
“Tests and capital expectations are not linked. Investors
expect from the biggest banks more than regulators require.”  UniCredit dropped as much as 3.3 percent in Milan trading
today and was down 2.9 percent at 1.47 euros at 4:30 p.m. The
shares have declined 5 percent this year, while the 48-member
Bloomberg Banks and Financial Services Index has fallen 6
percent in the period.  SIFIs  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  last year
approved preliminary stricter rules for banks, which need to
hold core capital equivalent to 7 percent of their assets by the
end of 2018. The committee is also discussing forcing so-called
global systemically important financial institutions, or SIFIs,
to hold additional capital buffers equivalent to as much as 3
percent of risk-weighted assets, people familiar with the
negotiations said in March.  “UniCredit could be considered as a SIFI and asked to keep
the same level as Intesa’s common equity Tier 1 ratio,” Paola Sabbione, an analyst at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , wrote in a May 5
report. “This means that a capital increase between 6 billion
euros and 7 billion euros might be needed.”  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) 
is  Italy ’s second-biggest bank.  CEO Ghizzoni said on May 13 the company is still waiting to
see if it’s considered as a SIFI by regulators and what the
requirements are for such banks.  Investors Waver  UniCredit, whose first-quarter profit rose 56 percent to
810 million euros, said its core Tier 1 ratio, a key measure of
financial health, rose to 9.06 percent as of March 31 from 8.58
percent at the end of December. Intesa forecasts a ratio of 10
percent by 2011 following a planned 5 billion-euro share sale.  Bank of Italy  Governor  Mario Draghi  in February urged the
country’s banks to raise money ahead of this year’s stress test,
which should be completed in July. Intesa, Monte dei Paschi di
Siena SpA,  Unione di Banche Italiane ScpA (UBI)  and  Banco Popolare SC (BP) 
have asked investors for a total of 10.5 billion euros this year
to strengthen finances in response to the Bank of Italy’s call.  UniCredit already has raised 7 billion euros in the last
three years through two capital increases, including a rights
offer and a convertible-bond sale.  “It could be a problem for UniCredit to ask for money from
investors for the third time in few years,” said Wolfram Mrowetz, chairman of Alisei SIM in Milan, which oversees 200
million euros and doesn’t own shares of the bank. “Investors
may consider this possibility only if UniCredit presents
compelling reasons.”  ‘Make Do’  Banking foundations, non-profit entities which hold more
than 11 percent of UniCredit, bought new shares and bonds to
finance the lender after credit markets froze following the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, while
renouncing the right to dividends.  “If the banks need capital, they’ll have to make do,”
Dino De Poli, chairman of Fondazione Cassamarca, which owns 0.8
percent of UniCredit, said in March.  UniCredit is renegotiating 3 billion euros of convertible
bonds known as CASHES so they can continue to be considered as
core capital under the new Basel III rules. The company also
plans to see how it can get the most value from assets including
its Pioneer Global Asset Management unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  