-- 
Turkey Needs More Steps to Cool Banks’ Lending Boom, HSBC Says

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-06-14T07:29:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/turkey-needs-more-steps-to-cool-banks-lending-boom-hsbc-says.html
Turkish banking regulators are
likely to take additional steps to slow a retail lending boom
that is driving the current-account deficit to record levels,
HSBC Holdings Plc said.  Year-to-date total loan growth reached 13.9 percent as of
June 3, implying a 33 percent growth rate for the year, the bank
said in a research note today, citing figures released by the
banking regulator yesterday. Retail loan growth, excluding
credit cards, was 17.3 percent year to date, implying “eye-
catching” 41 percent growth for the year, it said.  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci has raised  reserve
requirements  by 10 percentage points since December to help
limit lending. The central bank’s inflation forecast for 2011 of
6.9 percent is based on loan growth of 20 to 25 percent, Basci
said.  Increasing reserve requirements limits the amount of money
a bank has available to lend and has hurt profits at Turkish
lenders including Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS, whose shares have
dropped 17 percent since the beginning of the year, and  Akbank
TAS (AKBNK) , which has fallen 12 percent.  “It is highly likely that the regulators will take
additional steps to slow down especially the retail loan
growth” as “there is no sign of a slowdown” even after the
bank’s intervention, HSBC said.  The deficit widened to $7.7 billion in April, the second-
biggest monthly gap since records began in 1984, the state
statistics institute in Ankara said yesterday.  Turkey ’s credit rating may come under pressure if the
government has difficulty financing the current-account gap,
Moody’s Investors Service said on June 6. Moody’s ranks Turkey
at Ba2, two levels below investment grade, with a positive
outlook.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the country an equivalent BB,
also with a positive outlook, and  Fitch Ratings  has a BB+
ranking, one step below investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  