-- 
Indonesia Sees Tussle Over Financial Regulator as Corruption Legacy Weighs

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m ,   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 
2011-06-15T07:27:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/tussle-over-indonesian-agency-raises-risks-for-bank-supervision.html
A tussle between lawmakers and the
government over  Indonesia ’s planned financial regulator has
raised the risk of political interference in bank supervision,
highlighting the nation’s struggle to eliminate corruption.  The Financial Services Authority parliamentary working
committee, which is holding meetings this month to debate
whether lawmakers can appoint two members to the nine-person
board of commissioners for the agency, hadn’t reached a
“compromise” as of yesterday, said Andi Rachmat, deputy
chairman of the working group. The government’s proposal for the
board would exclude members of parliament.  The outcome may influence the effectiveness and
independence of an authority set to take over regulation of
capital markets, insurers, pension funds and banks from the
finance ministry and central bank. Indonesia spent 450 trillion
rupiah ($53 billion) to rescue lenders during the Asian
financial crisis, when anger over corruption during Suharto’s
regime helped topple the dictator in 1998.  “With politicians on the board, it could make the
supervision less effective,” said Iwan Wisaksana, an analyst in
Jakarta at  Fitch Ratings . “Bank Indonesia is concerned with
this new authority because it could hamper their ability to
supervise the banks and make speedier decisions.”  Call From Moody’s  The World Bank and Moody’s Investors Service are among
those calling for financial regulators to be non-politicized in
a nation that has for years attempted to rein in corruption.
President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  began his second term in
October 2009 vowing to target the bribery and extortion that
deter foreign investment.  The financial industry is dominated by banks that are
products of a restructuring in the aftermath of the 1997-98
Asian crisis.  PT Bank Mandiri, Indonesia’s largest bank by assets, was
formed from four state-owned lenders. In 2000, its president
director Robby Djohan was removed months after the Indonesian
Observer reported he refused to name the bank’s bad debtors,
citing Djohan. Five years later, a successor was replaced and
later put on trial for corruption charges, winning an acquittal
in 2006. A director for compliance was removed in 2005 after a
government probe into loans extended by the bank.  “Some government and non-government agencies are still
beholden to powerful interest groups,” the Washington-based
 World Bank  said in a 2008 report.  Suharto Clan  Former President Suharto, who ruled for more than three
decades and whose family and friends had interests in businesses
from trading cloves to transporting petrochemicals, was alleged
to have stolen as much as $35 billion from the country, the
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime report said in 2007.  While Indonesia’s  rank  in Transparency International’s
corruption perception index rose to 110 in 2010 from 126 in 2008,
it is still in the category of countries perceived as corrupt.  In May 2010, Yudhoyono lost Finance Minister  Sri Mulyani Indrawati , viewed as the public face of the drive to improve
governance. She resigned to join the World Bank after she and
Vice President Boediono became the subjects of an opposition
campaign accusing them of abuse of authority during the 6.7
trillion-rupiah bailout of PT Bank Century in 2008.  “It is imperative that the Financial Services Authority is
able to do its job properly according to its legal mandates,
free from political intervention,” the World Bank’s Indonesia
country office said in an e-mailed reply to Bloomberg News.  2013 Start  Parliament plans to approve the draft law for the regulator,
known in the Indonesian language as Otoritas Jasa Keuangan, or
OJK, “soon,” Achsanul Qosasih, vice chairman of the working
committee, said last week. The agency is due to start operating
in January 2013, he said.  “We need to find a way to have an oversight over the
institution,” said Rachmat, a member of the Prosperous Justice
Party. “We are creating an independent body but the process to
recruit the members of the commission must express the balance
of power between the executive body and the legislative body.”  Indonesia’s parliament wants two of its members on the
financial supervisory authority’s board, alongside five
government nominees proposed by the president and two former
officials from the  finance ministry  and the central bank, said
Rachmat. The government’s proposal is two former finance
ministry and central bank members and seven presidential picks
vetted by parliament, he said.  Deadlock Threat  The government may be worried there will be political
interference, Rachmat said. Still, the law will limit the
relationship between parliament and the board members, he said.
A decision needs to be made before July and “if the government
doesn’t accept our view, there will be a deadlock,” he said.  “Everyone is scrambling for power at the OJK:
parliamentary members, the government, and naturally Bank
Indonesia, as it wants first-hand information because otherwise
it will be difficult to design monetary policy,” said Adrianus Mooy,  Bank Indonesia  chief from 1988 to 1993. “When everyone
has different interests, that’s when you get into trouble.”  Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution didn’t respond when
asked by Bloomberg News at parliament on June 13 about the new
authority. Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  also didn’t answer
questions posed by Bloomberg at parliament the same day.  Don’t ‘Intervene’  “It would be better if parliament doesn’t intervene in the
OJK so that it can work more professionally,” said  Anton Gunawan , chief economist at PT Bank Danamon Indonesia in Jakarta.  Moody’s said in January Indonesia’s financial supervisory
framework is one of the main issues it’s studying as it
determines the next move on the nation’s credit rating, which
has climbed to one level below investment grade as the country
rebounded from the Asian and global crises in the past decade.  “We are looking for some guidance whether or not financial
regulation will be politicized,” something that may be affected
by the addition of parliamentary representatives, Christian de Guzman, a Singapore-based assistant vice president at Moody’s,
said in a telephone interview this week.  Bank Indonesia currently oversees 121 foreign and local
commercial banks in the country, with total assets of 3,065.8
trillion rupiah.  The  International Monetary Fund  said in September the
central bank should retain “significant access to information
and to some extent a role in all supervisory issues” as the
country reforms its financial regulatory framework.  Indonesia’s government in 2008 enacted regulations allowing
the central bank to bail out lenders in need of liquidity. The
country spent about 450 trillion rupiah, mainly in the form of
 government bonds , bailing out lenders to prevent them from
collapsing when the rupiah lost three-quarters of its value
during the Asian financial crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  