-- 
Utility Mergers to Continue as Costs Rise, Dominion Says

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-06-15T01:44:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/utility-mergers-to-continue-in-bid-to-share-costs-dominion-says.html
U.S. utility mergers will continue
as electricity companies seek to share costs of building new
plants, Dominion Resources Inc. Chief Executive Officer Thomas Farrell said.  The fragmented industry would benefit from mergers that
would lead to fewer and larger companies that can take on big
spending projects, Farrell said in an interview today at an
Edison Electric Institute meeting in  Colorado Springs ,  Colorado .
Farrell declined to comment on merger-and-acquisition
opportunities for Dominion.  Two U.S. utility acquisitions rank among the top 10
transactions this year by total announced value, according to
Bloomberg data. Duke Energy Corp. said on Jan. 10 it would buy
Progress Energy Inc. for $13.7 billion, forming the largest U.S.
utility. Exelon Corp. agreed to buy Constellation Energy Group
Inc. for about $7.9 billion in April.  “They are difficult to make work, but I think an economist
would tell you that they would make sense,” Farrell said,
referring to takeovers.  Regulators have become more amendable to mergers and
acquisitions as they have come to recognize utilities need to
make large capital investments, he said. Additionally, some
states have grown more receptive to allowing companies to raise
rates to pay for  power plants  while they are being built,
according to Farrell.  “It’s just better for everybody” to share the costs of
large construction projects, he said. “It keeps the debt costs
down and ultimately that is of a large benefit to the
customers.”  Dominion is focusing its four-year growth plan “almost
entirely” on its regulated power and natural-gas businesses,
Farrell said. The company, based in Richmond,  Virginia , serves
energy customers in 15 states.  The shares fell 0.3 percent to $47.69 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in Colorado Springs at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 