-- 
TV Couch Potatoes May Be Heading for Early Deaths, Report Says

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-06-14T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/tv-couch-potatoes-may-be-heading-for-early-deaths-report-says.html
Watching television, America’s most-
popular daily activity after sleeping and working, can raise the
risk of diabetes, heart disease and premature death when people
do it for too long, according to an analysis of eight studies.  For every two hours of  TV viewing , the risk of type 2
diabetes increased 20 percent, the risk of cardiovascular
disease rose 15 percent and the risk of early death rose 13
percent, according to the research published today in the
 Journal of the American Medical Association .  In the U.S., people watch an average of five hours of
television a day, the report found. The findings suggest people
reduce their TV viewing in exchange for activities that require
more physical exertion to help combat an unhealthy, sedentary
lifestyle, researchers said.  “Spending too much time watching TV is bad for health,”
said  Frank Hu , an author of the report and professor of
nutrition and epidemiology at Harvard School of  Public Health  in
 Boston , in a June 12 e-mail. “Couch potatoes should be aware of
the health hazards of prolonged TV watching habits. Perhaps TV
programs or manufacturers should carry a warning label about the
health hazards.”  Hu, along with co-author Andres Grontved, a visiting
researcher in the  Harvard School of Public Health ’s Department
of Nutrition, analyzed studies from the U.S.,  Europe  and
 Australia  that linked television viewing with an increased risk
of type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease and premature death.  104 Deaths  They found that among a group of 100,000 people, each two-
hour increase in television watching per day was associated with
176 new cases of type 2 diabetes, 38 new cases of fatal  heart
disease  and 104 deaths a year. Europeans and Australians spent
an average three to four hours watching TV each day, less than
Americans.  Lack of exercise, an unhealthy diet and obesity can explain
the higher risk of diabetes, cardiovascular disease and death in
those who watch television, Hu said.  “Sedentary lifestyle, especially prolonged TV watching, is
clearly an important and modifiable risk factor for type 2
diabetes and cardiovascular disease,” Grontved said in a
statement. “Future research should also look into the effects
of extensive use of new media devices on energy balance and
chronic disease risk.”  More than  220 million  people worldwide have diabetes and
about 90 percent of them have type 2, where the body doesn’t use
insulin effectively, according to the  World Health Organization .
Cardiovascular disease is the  No. 1  cause of death worldwide,
killing more than 17 million people each year, according to WHO.
By 2030, more than 23 million people will die from
cardiovascular diseases, mainly from heart disease and stroke,
according to the organization.  Life Balance  Jen Brennan, clinical nutrition manager at Lenox Hill
Hospital in New York, said in a June 10 telephone interview that
people need to balance their TV viewing with good diet and
exercise.  “I do believe it comes down to choices people are making
in their lives,” said Brennan, who wasn’t an author of today’s
report. “People need to learn to make healthy lifestyle
choices. If they’re choosing to incorporate television into
their life, they need to be mindful of the way they’re eating
and their other activity throughout the day so they maintain
balance in their lives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  