-- 
VF Smarter Than Buffett as Shares Surge on Timberland: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-06-14T02:12:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/vf-seen-smarter-than-buffett-as-shares-surge-on-timberland-deal-real-m-a.html
The most expensive acquisition for a
U.S. footwear company since 2004 is also proving to be one of
the smartest deals in America this year.  VF Corp. (VFC) , the world’s largest apparel maker, surged 10
percent after agreeing to buy  Timberland Co. (TBL)  for 12.3 times
earnings. While the valuation for the $1.97 billion offer is 18
percent higher than the median U.S. footwear deal, VF’s jump
yesterday was the biggest by any U.S. acquirer following an all-
cash takeover for a publicly traded target in 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The largest cash offer,  Warren Buffett ’s $9 billion purchase of Lubrizol Corp., caused
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. to fall 1.3 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Eric Wiseman, who has returned more
than twice as much to VF investors than his biggest rivals since
becoming CEO in 2008, is now attempting the company’s largest
acquisition. While Timberland fell by the most since 1987 last
month after earnings slumped, investors are betting VF can boost
margins that are half the industry average and profit from sales
that may climb to a record this year. The deal has already
rewarded owners of Greensboro, North Carolina-based VF with a $1
billion gain, about half the value of the takeover itself.  “It’s hard not to like this deal,” said  Brian Sozzi , a
retail analyst at Wall Street Strategies in  New York . “They got
Timberland at a really good price because they bought it on that
horrible earnings report. They’re getting a company that’s cut
expenses dramatically over the past two years, and has real
growth drivers within the brand portfolio, so sign me up.”  Acquisition Detail  “It makes compelling strategic sense and compelling
economic sense,” Wiseman said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “The investment community has high confidence that
we can do what we say we’re going to do.”  Timberland CEO Jeffrey Swartz said he was “proud of the
result” for his own shareholders, who recouped their losses
since the company’s last earnings announcement.  “Our board was very rigorous and sought real counsel and
wisdom and insight in understanding whether the offer was fair
and reasonable from a shareholder view,” he said.  VF, which makes North Face jackets, Vans sneakers and
Wrangler jeans, will pay shareholders of Stratham, New
Hampshire-based Timberland $43 a share, the companies said in a
statement yesterday. Including net cash, the $1.97 billion deal
is valued at 12.3 times earnings of $160 million before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization in the past 12 months, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Relative Value  That would be the most expensive U.S. footwear deal since
VF bought Vans Inc. for 72 times, the data show. The median
industry acquisition was struck at 10.4 times.  VF rose 10 percent to $101.01 yesterday. The average first-
day gain for U.S. acquirers after announcing cash takeovers over
$1 billion this year had been 0.4 percent, the data show. After
Buffett announced his purchase of Wickliffe, Ohio-based Lubrizol
on March 14, Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire Hathaway declined
1.3 percent. That cost Berkshire owners about $2.65 billion.  The Timberland deal is already starting to pay for itself.
The announcement added $1 billion to VF’s equity value, lowering
the cost of the takeover for shareholders by about half. That’s
the highest proportion of any comparable deal after the first
day, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “If you can provide a clear value, there is pricing power
to be had, and there is value to be found, and so you can pay up
a little bit for that,” said  Malcolm Polley , who oversees $1
billion as chief investment officer at Stewart Capital in
 Indiana ,  Pennsylvania . “You can make a good argument that it’s
potentially worth the premium multiple.”  Comparative Returns  Before yesterday’s agreement, Wiseman returned 50 percent
to VF shareholders, versus an average 22 percent for consumer
discretionary stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Wiseman announced VF’s biggest takeover in its 112-year
history after its cash balance climbed to a record $792 million
last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “VF’s shareholders are better off owning the brand than
owning cash,” Polley said. “Timberland should arguably be one
of the strongest brands in that space.”  VF plans to use $500 million of that money for the purchase
and borrow $700 million in short-term commercial paper, which it
expects to pay off by year-end, Wiseman said. The company will
also take out $800 million in longer-term debt, he said. VF
generated $649.1 million in free  cash flow  in the last 12 months,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Capital Structure  “They’re going to pay off a chunk of that debt pretty
quickly,” said Christopher Svezia, an analyst at Susquehanna
International Group LLP in New York.  By acquiring hiking-boot maker Timberland, VF will increase
sales at its outdoor and sports gear unit to more than half of
the company’s total revenue, which was $7.7 billion last year.  Wiseman said the division is already the “biggest, fastest
growing and most profitable” part of VF and earned about 20
cents before interest and taxes for each dollar of sales last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company aims to boost Timberland’s operating margin to
15 percent in the five years, Wiseman said. Its 9.3 percent
margin was lowest among U.S. footwear companies over $1 billion,
the data show. VF had an overall margin of 13.6 percent.  VF is also buying a company that is projected to have
record sales this year and next, according to analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Timberland, which tumbled 26
percent on May 5 after missing analysts’ earnings estimates, is
among the cheapest relative to revenue.  “People are looking for deals that make logical sense. In
some cases they don’t have a problem for a premium paid for that
if it makes logical sense,” said  Matt McCormick , a  money
manager  at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which oversees
$3.6 billion. “The market likes it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 