-- 
Visconti’s Neglected ‘Senso’ Snubbed Brando, Lost Bergman: DVD

-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 
2011-06-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/visconti-s-neglected-senso-snubbed-brando-missed-bergman-peter-rainer.html
Luchino Visconti was a rare
combination, a great filmmaker who was also a great opera
director. It’s regrettable that he never directed an opera for
the movies, though many of his films are operatically scaled,
with sequences that play like arias.  His masterpiece, “ The Leopard ” (1963), starring Burt Lancaster as a Sicilian aristocrat during Italy’s unification in
1860, most resembles an opera in terms of its passion and brio.  Less well known but almost as brilliant is “ Senso ”
(1954), now out on DVD in a beautiful Criterion restoration. Set
in the same era as “The Leopard,” it stars Alida Valli as a
married Italian countess who falls desperately in love with a
brash, two-timing Austrian lieutenant, played by Farley Granger.  One reason for the film’s neglect is that, except for a few
showings in 1954, it wasn’t released in the U.S. until 1968, and
then only in a limited run.  If Visconti had secured the actors he originally wanted --
Ingrid Bergman and  Marlon Brando  -- “Senso” would have had a
much higher profile. But Bergman at the time was married to
Roberto Rossellini, a rival of Visconti’s who wouldn’t allow his
wife to take the job. Brando, who hadn’t yet made “On the
Waterfront,” screen-tested for “Senso” in  Rome  but was turned
down by the producers.  Bergman, Brando  Valli was well-known to American audiences, having appeared
in “The Third Man” (1949). Her imperious sensuality is
perfectly suited to the role of the countess, whose hauteur
eventually morphs into madness.  Granger, who had appeared in  Alfred Hitchcock ’s “Rope”
(1948) and Nicholas Ray’s “They Live by Night” (1949), was a
more problematic choice. But his callowness as an actor works to
his advantage here, since the lieutenant himself is callow.
Still, it’s tempting to imagine what this film might have been
like if Bergman and Brando were its stars.  Valli’s scenes with Granger were performed in English and
later dubbed into Italian. A drastically re-edited English-
language version, called “The Wanton Countess” and included in
the Criterion two-disc package, was shown only in the U.K.  As with Visconti’s original, it boasts an oddball
“dialogue collaboration” credit for Paul Bowles and Tennessee
Williams. (Visconti had already directed an acclaimed stage
production of “A Streetcar Named Desire.”)  Callas’s Svengali  Prior to “Senso,” Visconti was known primarily for
“Ossessione” (1943), an adaptation of James M. Cain’s “The
Postman Always Rings Twice” that is generally regarded as the
first Italian neo-realist movie, and “La Terra Trema” (1948),
his epic about Sicilian fishermen.  It might seem like a big leap to go from those films,
packed with proletarian power, to the heavily costumed, upper-
crust artifice of “Senso.” Yet Visconti always maintains an
absolute commitment to truthful storytelling.  Visconti was well-regarded as a stage director prior to
“Senso” but had yet to direct any opera. “Senso” opens with
a production of “Il trovatore” staged in  Venice ’s hallowed
Teatro La Fenice opera house. (We hear the aria “Di quella
pira,” which ends with a call to arms.)  Soon after finishing the film he directed his first opera,
at La Scala, with the young  Maria Callas . He would forever be
identified as her Svengali. (The Criterion extras include a TV
documentary featuring a brief interview with the maestro and the
diva -- a mini-opera all by itself).  Visconti was a great contradiction. An aristocrat whose
lineage went back to Charlemagne, he was also a vocal member of
the Communist Party.  He saw the world in operatic terms. Before dinner each
night, his father would take out his watch and bellow, “The
curtain for La Scala is now rising.” Opera, for Visconti, was
the art where all of life is expressed.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  