-- 
Who Fought in the Korean War? Don’t Ask High School Seniors

-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 
2011-06-14T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/who-fought-in-the-korean-war-don-t-ask-high-school-seniors.html
U.S. students may know more about
Lady Gaga than  Abraham Lincoln .  Just 12 percent of 12th graders demonstrated proficiency in
American history on a federal test, known as the “Nation’s
Report Card,” according to data released today by the Education
Department. Only one in five could name  China  as a combatant in
the  Korean War . Overall, seniors showed no improvement in their
scores since 2006, the last time the test was given.  The results of the National Assessment of Educational
Progress follow a call last week by Education Secretary Arne Duncan for more flexibility in carrying out the country’s
education-testing law, which he says focuses on math and reading
at the expense of other subjects.  “We as a nation must pay more attention to the teaching of
U.S. history,” Diane Ravitch, a former assistant U.S. Education
Secretary under  George H.W. Bush , said in a statement released
by the board overseeing the history test. “We should make sure
that there is time for it in the school day.”  In a nationally representative sample of public and private
schools, 7,000 fourth-graders, 11,800 eighth graders and 12,400
12th graders participated in the most recent test, which was
administered last year.  Only 20 percent of fourth graders achieved scores that were
considered proficient or better in history. Seventeen percent of
eighth graders scored proficient or better.  David Driscoll, chair of the board that administers the
test, noted some bright spots. Though only eighth graders
improved scores in a statistically significant way since 2006,
overall results increased since 1994. In fourth grade,
historically lower-performing groups, including black and
Hispanic students, made larger-than-average gains since 1994.  Achievement Gap  Closing this “achievement gap” has been a major focus of
U.S. education policy, especially the  No Child Left Behind  Law,
enacted by President  George W. Bush  in 2002.  “We are encouraged by the progress of our fourth and
eighth graders, particularly by the gains being made by students
who traditionally have been among the lowest performers,”
Driscoll, former Massachusetts Commissioner of Education, said
in a statement.  The rising results for fourth graders may have more to do
with their improved reading skills than their history knowledge,
said Ravitch, a research professor of education at  New York
University . Fewer than half of students at that grade level have
had more than two hours a week devoted to social studies, which
may or may not mean history, she said.  When fourth graders could recognize Abraham Lincoln’s
picture, only 9 percent could give two reasons why he was
important, according to Ravitch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in  Boston  at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 