-- 
TMX Shareholders Say Rival Suitors Need to Sweeten Bids

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-06-14T20:41:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/tmx-group-shareholders-say-rival-suitors-need-to-sweeten-bids.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  and
the Canadian banks and pension funds battling for control of  TMX
Group Inc. (X)  need to sweeten their bids because the competing cash
and stock offers are too similar, investors said.  “Right now, the issue is one of price,” Richard Fogler,
who helps manage C$1.25 billion ($1.29 billion) at King West
Financial in Toronto, including TMX shares, said yesterday in an
interview. “Let one of them speak with their checkbook.”  TMX Group, owner of the Toronto Stock Exchange, backs an
all-stock takeover by LSE worth C$46.03 a share. The Toronto-
based firm rejected a cash-and-stock bid from Maple Group
Acquisition Corp., whose 13 members include  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD)  and  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  Maple Group offered C$48 a
share in cash and stock in its C$3.58 billion bid.  TMX fell 1.2 percent to C$43.64 at 4 p.m. on the Toronto
Stock Exchange, below the offer price of both proposals,
indicating traders are concerned the bids face opposition from
investors and regulators.  Shareholders of TMX and LSE vote on the friendly deal on
June 30, with two-thirds of TMX votes cast needed to proceed.
Maple Group’s bid is contingent on TMX shareholders voting
against the TMX offer, worth about C$3.42 billion.  “There are two competing bids on the table; they both have
a whole bunch of uncertainties,” said Fogler, who hasn’t
decided how he will vote. “In the LSE bid, the uncertainties
are regulatory, and in the Maple bid, the uncertainties are
regulatory as well.”  Even Odds  The odds of Maple Group and London Stock Exchange winning
over TMX shareholders are about even, underscoring the need for
TMX and LSE to step it up with better marketing or a sweetened
bid, said  Thomas Caldwell , who invests in bourse stocks.  “It’s an even money bet at this stage of the game,”
Caldwell, chief executive officer of Toronto-based Caldwell
Securities Ltd., said in a telephone interview from Paris. “I
think London-TMX could make a lot stronger case than they seem
to have made to date.”  Maple Group first approached TMX on May 13 with a plan to
buy the Canadian exchange owner. TMX rejected the offer on May
20, saying it wasn’t superior to its Feb. 9 agreement with LSE,
prompting Maple Group to take its offer directly to TMX
investors.  “The biggest pushback TMX-LSE is going to get is over the
value gap,” Edward Ditmire, an analyst with Macquarie Group
Ltd. in  New York , said in an interview. “Ultimately they need
to get out their financial cap and find ways to get their offer
price higher.”  ‘Smokescreen’  LSE CEO Xavier Rolet said Maple’s claim of a higher bid is
a “smokescreen” because the equity portion of the offer is
backed by Maple stock that can’t be valued.  When asked about the possibility of a higher bid, LSE
executive  David Lester  said in a June 9 interview: “We’re
selling the bid that we’ve got.”  Maple Group spokesman Peter Block said its bid is already
superior to LSE’s offer and it isn’t “going to comment on
hypotheticals” about raising its offer.  TMX and LSE could maximize their chances of winning over
investors by finding cost savings, or using debt to award a
special dividend to shareholders, Ditmire said.  “By borrowing to pay out a one-time cash dividend to both
TMX and LSE shareholders, they could create a bid that’s more
financially attractive,” Ditmire said.  40 Percent Stake  Maple Group’s plan would give shareholders 40 percent of
the company, while the pension funds would own about 31 percent
and bank-owned investment dealers would own about 22 percent.
The four investors announced June 12 -- Desjardins Financial
Group, Manulife, Dundee Capital Markets and  GMP Capital Inc. (GMP)  --
would own a combined 7 percent.  Maple Group investors also include  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ,
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,  National Bank of Canada (NA) ,
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board,  Ontario Teachers’ Pension
Plan , Alberta Investment Management Corp. and Fonds de
Solidarite FTQ.  Maple Group also said it aims to acquire Alpha Group, a
bank-owned operator of an alternative trading system that
competes with the Toronto exchange, and Canadian securities
clearing house CDS Inc. to integrate into TMX after completing
the takeover. Maple Group CEO Luc Bertrand gave CDS a value of
about C$170 million, and Alpha a value of C$140 million to C$170
million during yesterday’s investor call.  Caldwell wouldn’t say which bid he’s supporting.  “Our corporate style has typically been to support
management,” Caldwell said. “My sense is that will continue to
be our style, because we are looking at capital markets in a
broader long-term context.”  ‘Net Benefit’  Both bids require regulatory approvals to succeed. The LSE-
TMX bid needs approval from Industry Minister Christian Paradis,
whose reviewing the transaction to determine if the deal is a
“net benefit” to the country under the Investment  Canada  Act,
and approvals from provincial regulators including those in
Ontario and  Quebec .  The Maple bid wouldn’t require Industry Canada approval
because it’s not a foreign transaction, though it will face
reviews by regulators and Canada’s competition bureau, the group
said in a June 13 presentation.  “Each of the two bids has a big regulatory hurdle that has
to cross,” Macquarie’s Ditmire said “For shareholders, the
frustrating thing is that they’re probably not sure if they have
one, two or zero viable offers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Sean Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  