-- 
Yankees’ Derek Jeter Is Placed on Disabled List While Six Hits from 3,000

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-06-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/yankees-derek-jeter-placed-on-disabled-list-while-six-hits-from-3-000.html
Derek Jeter  of the  New York Yankees 
went on the disabled list with a strained right calf,
temporarily halting his pursuit of the 3,000-hit milestone.  Jeter was injured two days ago in a 1-0 loss to the
Cleveland Indians, when he collected his 2,994th career hit.
He’s aiming to become the 28th player in Major League Baseball
history and first Yankee with 3,000 hits.  Jeter, the Yankees’ captain, isn’t eligible to return
before June 29 after being placed on the 15-day disabled list.
It’s his first stint on the disabled list since 2003, when he
dislocated his left shoulder in an opening day collision with
Toronto catcher Ken Huckaby.  “Whether it’s going for 3,000 hits or 100 hits, I’d rather
be out there playing,” Jeter told reporters before the team
announced he had been placed on the disabled list. “It’s a
little bit frustrating. But even if I wasn’t at this point, I’d
still be frustrated.”  The Yankees open a three-game home series against the
 Milwaukee Brewers  on June 28 and then start a six-game road trip
on July 1 with three games against the  New York Mets .  Jeter, 36, appeared to injure himself as he ran out of the
batter’s box, Yankees manager Joe Girardi said.  The Yankees have 10 other players on the disabled list,
including pitchers Joba Chamberlain, Bartolo Colon, Phil Hughes,
Rafael Soriano and Pedro Feliciano. Catcher Russell Martin has
missed five of the past six games with a back injury.  Eduardo Nunez replaced Jeter, going 2-for-4 with a run
batted in, as the Yankees defeated Texas 12-4 last night.  After their current three-game home series against the
Rangers, the Yankees have a six-game road trip to Chicago and
Cincinnati, and then return to  New York  for three games against
the  Colorado Rockies  and the three-game series with Milwaukee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  