-- 
Yen May Climb to 75 Per Dollar on U.S. Credit-Rating Risk, Sakakibara Says

-- B y   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 
2011-06-15T05:51:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/yen-may-climb-to-75-per-dollar-on-u-s-credit-rating-risk-sakakibara-says.html
The yen may strengthen to 75 versus
the dollar as the U.S. faces the risk of a credit rating
downgrade amid an economic slowdown, said  Eisuke Sakakibara ,
formerly Japan’s top currency official.  “The  U.S. economy  is in a worse-than-expected state,”
Sakakibara said in an interview in  Tokyo  yesterday. “The yen
may trade in a range of 75 to 80 against the dollar in the not
so distant future.”  The U.S. currency’s declining trend will continue as
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signals his intention
to maintain record monetary stimulus, Sakakibara said. The
dollar-weakening pressure will outweigh the risk of Japan
slipping into an “unprecedented recession” in the wake of a
record earthquake and tsunami on March 11, he said.  The yen traded at 80.51 to the dollar as of 2:36 p.m. in
Tokyo. Against nine counterparts in Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes, the yen is down 4.9 percent this
year, the second-biggest decline after the greenback’s 5.6
percent slide.  Sakakibara, 70, said  Japan  is unlikely to intervene in the
currency market to stop the yen’s climb because it may not be
able to gain international cooperation again. The Group of Seven
countries jointly intervened to stem the yen’s gains in March
after the currency soared to a postwar record of 76.25 against
the greenback, hurting the overseas competitiveness of Japanese
companies.  Ratings Warnings  Moody’s Investors Service said on June 2 it expects to
place the U.S. government’s Aaa rating under review for possible
downgrade if there’s no progress on increasing the debt limit by
mid-July.  Standard & Poor’s  put the U.S. on notice on April 18
it risks losing its AAA rating unless policy makers agree on a
plan by 2013 to cut deficits and the debt.  The U.S. would not likely see a big cut in its credit
ratings as negotiations between Republican and Democrat
lawmakers over raising the debt ceiling will likely be resolved
by the August 2 deadline, Sakakibara said. That would prevent an
exodus from Treasuries and keep intact the dollar’s status as
the world’s primary reserve currency, he said.  Yen Advantage  The impact of the yen’s gain on Japan’s economy will likely
be limited, said Sakakibara, who is now a professor at  Aoyama
Gakuin University  in Tokyo. The currency’s climb has more
advantages than disadvantages for Japan, as it will help the
nation cope with rising commodity prices, he said.  After weakening to 85.83 per dollar on April 6, the
Japanese currency rose to 79.70 on June 8, the highest since May
5.  Sakakibara said in February that the yen may rise beyond
its previous of 79.75 versus the dollar, which had stood since
1995, and stay stronger than 80 this year because of structural
weakness of the U.S. economy. In April, he said the yen may
weaken beyond 90 per dollar in coming months amid a nuclear
crisis in northern Japan following the March temblor.  The yen will trade at 86 per dollar by year-end and 88 by
March 2013, according to median forecasts of economists and
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Sakakibara became known as “Mr. Yen” during his 1997-1999
tenure at the Ministry of Finance for his efforts to influence
the yen rate through verbal and actual intervention in the
 currency markets .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  