-- 
Hynix, Micron Lose Decision on Rambus Document-Shredding

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-06-14T22:21:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/hynix-micron-document-destruction-claims-limited-in-rambus-antitrust-case.html
Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  and  Micron
Technology Inc. (MU)  lost a bid to have the judge in an antitrust
lawsuit by memory-chip designer Rambus Inc. tell jurors that
Rambus shredded documents in anticipation of litigation.  Superior Court Judge James McBride in  San Francisco  today
rejected a request by the chip manufacturers for jurors to be
instructed that Rambus’s document destruction is proven. The
companies based their request on a federal appeals court ruling
last month that Rambus destroyed documents relevant to patent-
infringement claims it planned to pursue against the chipmakers.  McBride said the subject of Rambus’s document destruction
is “not dead” in the trial “but is not enshrined,” and that
to raise it the defendants will have to pass “a test of
evidence.”  Rambus, based in Sunnyvale,  California , is seeking as much
as $4.3 billion from Hynix and Micron over claims they drove
Rambus-designed dynamic random access memory, or RDRAM, chips
out of the computer memory market. The damages would be
automatically tripled to $12.9 billion under California law if
Rambus wins the case, the company’s General Counsel Thomas Lavelle said this month in an interview.  ‘Engaged in Spoliation’  “We believe the fact that Rambus has been found to have
wrongfully destroyed documents and engaged in spoliation by a
federal appeals court demonstrate Rambus’s bad faith and lack of
fair dealing,” Rod Lewis, Micron’s general counsel, said in an
e-mailed statement.  “We look forward to presenting these facts to the jury at
trial and proving our case in court,” Lewis said. “RDRAM
failed because of inherent deficiencies in its technology, which
was less efficient, more costly to produce and more difficult to
implement than competing technologies.”  Patrick Shields, a lawyer representing Boise, Idaho-based
Micron, told the judge the chip manufacturers sought an order
instructing jurors that Rambus’s document destruction is proven;
that it engaged in the destruction starting no later than 1998
and did so in anticipation of litigation; that it had a duty to
preserve documents that Micron and Hynix, based in Ichon,  South
Korea , need to defend themselves, and that Rambus violated that
duty.  Sean Eskovitz, a lawyer representing Rambus, said he was
experiencing “déjà-vu” because the document destruction issue
is a “sideshow” that was previously argued and decided by
Judge Richard Kramer, who has issued many pretrial rulings in
the case since it was filed in 2004.  The federal appeals court decision the chip manufacturers
rely on, upholding portions of a ruling from federal court in
 Delaware , “is not on point with any of the issues here, because
that’s a patent suit,” Eskovitz told Judge McBride. “There’s
no basis for revisiting what Judge Kramer has done,” he said.  Rambus spokeswoman Linda Ashmore declined to comment.  The case is  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  v. Micron Technology Inc., 04-
431105, California Superior Court (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 