-- 
Youngman May Not Be Lifeline For Saab, Analysts Say

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-15T12:52:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/youngman-china-deal-may-not-be-lifeline-for-saab-on-approval-analysts-say.html
(Corrects ninth paragraph of story published June 14 to
show Youngman uses engineering from Lotus.)  Saab Automobile owner  Spyker Cars
NV (SPYKR) ’s agreement to sell a 29.9 percent stake in the struggling
Swedish company to Zhejiang Youngman Lotus Automobile Co. may
not help the carmaker turn itself around, analysts say.  Youngman may be too small a carmaker on the Chinese
mainland to obtain government approvals to manufacture cars in
the world’s largest auto market, analysts from IHS Automotive,
Synovate Motoresearch and Autoforesight Shanghai Co. said. There
is also a high likelihood China’s focus on automotive industry
consolidation may scuttle the deal, they said.  Spyker, based in Zeewolde,  Netherlands , is trying to secure
long-term financing for Saab after a payment dispute with
components suppliers caused the company to halt output for seven
weeks in April and May. Spyker said yesterday it will sell the
stake in the Swedish carmaker to Jinhua, eastern China-based
Youngman for 136 million euros ($197 million). Pangda Automobile
Trade Co., which agreed to invest in Saab in May, will also pay
109 million euros for a 24 percent stake.  “I have the impression that Saab is scrambling for any
partner in  China  now,” said Lin Huai Bin, a Shanghai-based
analyst at IHS Automotive, in a telephone interview. “If Saab
wants to succeed in China, they need to find a sizable company
with good profit and good government connections,.”  Government Approval  Youngman may find it difficult to convince the Chinese
government to give approval for a manufacturing venture, given
the company’s size and China’s wariness to allow further
capacity expansion in the  auto industry , Lin said.  China has been trying since 2009 to reduce its auto
industry to 10 companies holding 90 percent of the market from
about 100 manufacturers currently. The China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers sales data doesn’t rank Youngman among
the nation’s top 10 carmakers.  The deals with  Youngman  and Pangda need approval from
Chinese authorities, the  European Investment Bank , Sweden’s
government and national debt office, and from  General Motors
Co. (GM) , which sold Saab to Spyker for $74 million in cash and $326
million in preferred shares in February 2010.  The Chinese investment “significantly strengthens Saab’s
financial position,” Victor Muller, chief executive officer of
Spyker and Saab, said yesterday.  Youngman, whose parent company makes buses with  Germany ’s
MAN SE, uses engineering from U.K. carmaker Lotus Cars. Five
phone calls made to the company’s office weren’t answered.  Chinese Tastes  “We feel that Saab as a premium European brand appeals
strongly to the taste and preferences of the Chinese customer,”
Pang Qingnian, chief executive officer at Youngman, said in a
statement yesterday.  The accord comes a month after a carmaking agreement with
Beijing-based Hawtai Motor Group Co. collapsed. Spyker blamed
the breakdown on Hawtai being unable to obtain the necessary
approvals, while Hawtai cited “commercial and economic
realities.”  “There is still a lot of doubt if the government would
approve this deal, following Spyker’s Hawtai experience and the
government’s efforts to consolidate the industry” said Klaus Paur, managing director for Greater China at Synovate
Motoresearch in  Shanghai . “There are more similarities than
differences between Youngman and Hawtai.”  Saab’s sales have plummeted in recent years and the
carmaker was on the brink of collapse during the financial
crisis before Spyker bought it.  Controlling Inflation  China’s focus on controlling inflation and tightening
lending may also limit the tie-up’s success, said Robert Theleen, chairman and co-founder of investment capital firm
ChinaVest Ltd.  “The auto industry is low priority for the government at
the moment,” said Theleen, who provides cross-border merger and
acquisition advisory services for multinationals in China.
“They’d also prefer to see how the Geely-Volvo deal pans out.”  Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. threw luxury marquee Volvo
a lifeline in 2010, the biggest overseas acquisition by a
Chinese carmaker.  Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175) , its listed
unit, boosted car sales 27 percent and net income 16 percent to
1.37 billion yuan ($211 million) last year.  Saab’s branding as a niche and luxury product may work
against the bid, said Yale Zhang, managing director at
Autoforesight in Shanghai. This brand positioning would restrict
production at the Youngman-Saab joint venture to fewer than
100,000 units a year, less than the minimum number needed to
convince the authorities to approve the tie-up, Zhang said.  Youngman and Saab will each own 45 percent of the proposed
new manufacturing venture, while Pangda will hold the remaining
10 percent stake, according to the statement yesterday.  Saab last year sold 31,696 cars and has said it will be
unable to meet a target of 80,000 this year due to the
production problems. It aims to sell 120,000 autos and to be
profitable next year.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net 
undefinedundefined 