-- 
ZTE Plans to Win Smartphone Share in Europe, U.S. on Android

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-06-14T09:49:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/zte-plans-to-win-smartphone-share-in-europe-u-s-on-google-android-phones.html
ZTE Corp. (000063) ,  China ’s second-biggest
maker of mobile-phone equipment, aims to outpace smartphone
rivals in Europe and the U.S. helped by a growing device range
and the popularity of  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android platform.  The company’s combined market share in the two regions may
increase to 10 percent in the next 12 to 18 months from about 5
percent at the end of 2010, ZTE’s  Thomas Granstrom  said in an
interview in Dusseldorf, Germany. Granstrom is the general
manager for Shenzhen-based ZTE in the Nordic region and is
authorized to speak for markets in Europe and the U.S.  ZTE, which aims to win market share from leading mobile-
phone makers such  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Samsung Electronics Co.
and LG Electronics Inc., sold a total of 90 million handsets
worldwide last year, an increase of 50 percent. The Chinese
company is betting on demand for Android handsets, software
application suites and cloud services to fuel revenue growth in
coming years.  “For certain segments we’re having strong opportunities,
but for the overall market of smartphones, we don’t have the
broad portfolio yet to cover more ground,” Granstrom said.  ZTE is trying to extend relationships with operators such
as  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and Royal KPN NV’s German E-Plus division
to include a range of products from wireless  radio stations  to
mobile phones and software, according to the executive. The
company is presenting products including high-speed household
routers and instant-message and call software suites to
potential customers in  Europe .  ZTE, whose products include the Blade phone and Vodafone’s
553 device, predicts 2011 sales of its handset business in
Europe will increase by a similar rate to last year’s 150
percent, Granstrom said.  Branding Efforts  The company, which increasingly offers devices under its
own brand to get in direct touch with consumers, was also one of
the first competitors for Apple in the tablet computer market.  It will start selling the Base Tab, a co-branded version of
its ZTE Light device, through E-Plus in coming months, Granstrom
said. ZTE plans to introduce a version of the tablet with
fourth-generation transmission capabilities in the fourth
quarter, he said.  ZTE is also competing with Ericsson AB, Alcatel-Lucent SA,
Nokia Siemens Networks and fellow Chinese company Huawei
Technologies Co. to build next-generation wireless network
infrastructures capable of handling a data transfer speed of as
much as 100 megabits per second. It is currently testing
transmission devices capable of handling so-called long-term
evolution, or LTE, technology with E-Plus in  Germany , Granstrom
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  