-- 
Scathing ‘Book of Mormon,’ Endearing ‘War Horse’ Take Top Tonys

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-06-13T04:19:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/-book-of-mormon-wins-five-early-tony-awards-including-direction-score.html
“The Book of Mormon,” a raucous
musical comedy that has been the runaway hit of the Broadway
season, picked up nine Tony Awards on Sunday night, including
best musical.  The show marked the first Broadway outing for  Trey Parker
and Matt Stone, the creators of TV’s “ South Park .” Their
collaborator, “Avenue Q” composer Robert Lopez, was also part of
the winning team.  “War Horse” was named best play, “The Normal Heart” best
play revival and “Anything Goes” best revival of a musical.  “Mormon” won awards for its score, direction and featured
actress, among others, at the ceremony that was telecast  
live by CBS from the Beacon Theater on New York’s Upper West 
Side.  The show follows two young, optimistic missionaries sent to
 Uganda  to spread Mormonism in a community beset by deprivation,
AIDS and violence.  “You did it Joseph, you got the Tony!” Parker said in one
of his acceptance speeches, giving a shout-out to Joseph Smith,
the founder of Mormonism.  Frances McDormand, whose outfit included a denim jacket,
won for best actress in a play, David Lindsay-Abaire’s “Good
People,” and spoke passionately about the importance of
theater. Actor  Mark Rylance  won his second Tony, for the lead in
“ Jerusalem ,” and recited a bizarre essay about walking through
walls, never mentioning his show.  Second for Foster  “Anything Goes” star Sutton Foster cried as she thanked her
longtime dresser. It was her second Tony, as it was for Norbert
Leo Butz, best actor for the musical “Catch Me if You Can.” He
took home that show’s lone Tony.  “War Horse,”  by Nick Stafford, is the story of a boy and
his horse set against the backdrop of World War I and featuring
life-size equine puppets. The play won five Tonys plus a special
award to the  Handspring Puppet Co . of  South Africa , which
created the horses.  “The Normal Heart,” Larry Kramer’s intense play about the
early days of the AIDS crisis in New York, won three awards,
including featured actress Ellen Barkin and featured actor John
Benjamin Hickey. Hickey plays the AIDS-stricken lover of a
character based on playwright Larry Kramer.  Miranda Rap  The show was hosted by Neil Patrick Harris for the second
time. He opened with an amusing, original song, “Broadway’s Not
Just For Gays Anymore,” and rapped at the end, summarizing the
proceedings and rhyming to boot, in a remarkable précis of the
evening written by Lin-Manuel Miranda.  A target of Harris’s levity was “Spider-Man: Turn off The
Dark,” which was to open this past season and is to open on
Tuesday. (“The only show in which actors in the cast are
actually in casts”).  The broadcast was heavy on celebrities, even those who were
passed over by the two dozen nominators in May.  Daniel Radcliffe 
performed a number from the revival of “How to Succeed in
Business Without Really Trying.” His cast mate John Larroquette
won for the featured actor in a musical.  “I just had to stop Daniel Radcliffe from poking out the
war horse’s eyes,” Harris joked. “War Horse” also won for
sound design and direction, by Marianne Elliott and Tom Morris.  A pair of “Mormon” regular orchestra seats are not to be
had from its official online ticket seller, Telecharge.com,
until Nov. 29, even though at $165.25 each they’re the most
expensive on Broadway. Some “premium” tickets are available
for as much as $400 for some performances. Advertisements during
the broadcast told viewers to be patient and to buy the album on
Amazon.com for $1.99.  Heavy Favorite  Chris Rock , who presented the best musical award, noted
that “Mormon” was the heavy favorite before announcing it.  “This is such a waste of time!” he joked, underscoring the
fact that there was little doubt about the outcome as he tore
the envelope open.  Rock stars in “The Mother** With the Hat,” which didn’t
win any Tonys. Other shows that left the Beacon empty handed
were revivals of “Arcadia” and “Merchant of  Venice ” with  Al Pacino , and the new musicals “Sister Act” and “The Scottsboro
Boys.”  Barkin, who plays an AIDS researcher, thanked the
playwright of “Normal Heart,” Kramer, as did Hickey.  The evening, like the $1.1 billion Broadway season that
preceded it, was generally a prosperous one for nonprofit
companies.  The  Roundabout Theatre Co . produced “Anything Goes,”
along with the hit revival of “The Importance of Being
Earnest.”  Lincoln Center Theater  presented the National Theatre
production of “War Horse.” And  Manhattan Theatre Club  put on
“Good People.”  The Tonys are presented by the Broadway League -- a trade
association of theater owners and producers -- and the  American
Theatre Wing , a service organization. There are 824 Tony voters,
including actors, directors, producers and theater owners.  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 