-- 
Abbott Sued Over Claim Humira Caused Fungal Infection

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-06-13T19:26:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/abbott-labs-sued-over-claims-humira-caused-fungal-infection.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  was sued by a
 Tennessee  advertising executive who claimed its top-selling
arthritis drug Humira caused a life-threatening fungal
infection.  Frederick Delano, 69, was diagnosed in February 2009 with
disseminated histoplasmosis, according to a complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Memphis, Tennessee. In a May 2010
 warning letter  to doctors, Abbott said some Humira patients are
at risk of developing the fungal infection.  “In 2008, Fred and his physicians got no warning
whatsoever that the medication which he thought would help
could, in fact, kill him -- and nearly did,” Delano and his
wife, Frances, said in the complaint.  In September 2008, 26 days before Delano’s first dose of
Humira, according to his complaint, the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  ordered the  Abbott Park , Illinois-based drugmaker
to warn patients and doctors of an increased risk of potentially
fatal Humira-induced histoplasmosis.  The risk was highest for patients who lived in the
Mississippi and Ohio River valleys and also took methotrexate,
an immune-suppressant drug prescribed to Delano and thousands of
other arthritis sufferers, the FDA said.  “Abbott stalled for more than a year and a half” before
mailing warning letters to doctors, Delano said in his
complaint, which seeks millions of dollars in actual and
punitive damages. “Abbott opted for sales and chose not to”
immediately issue the safety warning, he claimed.  ‘Therapeutic Risks’  “Humira has more than 12 years of clinical and safety data
and best-in-class efficacy,” Adelle Infante, an Abbott
spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview today. “The
therapeutic risks associated with Humira are well-known and
documented in the prescribing label.”  “Abbott’s risk evaluation and mitigation strategy plan was
submitted to the FDA in December 2008 and approved in April
2010,’’ Infante said regarding Delano’s claim that Abbott
intentionally delayed warnings about the risk of fungal
infections. “Abbott contacted health-care providers well within
the timeframe required by the FDA,’’ she said.  Delano was diagnosed with histoplasmosis by a specialist at
 Memphis ’s St. Francis Hospital after doctors at the local
Veterans Administration hospital failed to pinpoint the cause of
a “raging” infection he had had for a month, according to the
complaint. VA doctors treated Delano’s psoriatic arthritis with
numerous Humira injections during a 2 1/2-month period beginning
in October 2008, he said.  Sales Leader  Humira, with 2010 sales of $6.55 billion, is expected to
become the world’s most lucrative drug by 2016, according to a
forecast by research company EvaluatePharma. The FDA approved
Humira in 2003 to treat rheumatoid arthritis and has since
approved the drug to treat five other auto-immune illnesses,
including Crohn’s disease.  Delano’s lawyer, Andy Vickery of Perdue, Kidd & Vickery in
Houston, has already sued Abbott claiming Humira caused cancer
or peripheral nerve damage in patients from Texas, Massachusetts
and  Montana . He also represents a New York patient who claims
the drug damaged her vision.  The case is Delano v. Abbott Laboratories, 2:11-cv-2475,
U.S. District Court, Western District of Tennessee (Memphis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  