-- 
Lacker Says U.S. Recovery May Be Slow

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-06-13T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/lacker-says-u-s-recovery-may-be-slow-for-sustained-period-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President Jeffrey Lacker said the two-year-old U.S. recovery may
be unusually slow as employers concerned about tax and
regulatory policy minimize payrolls.  “This recovery may turn out to be qualitatively different
from other recoveries,” Lacker said in remarks prepared for
delivery today in Roanoke,  Virginia . “One striking observation
that may be relevant to the possibility that growth
underperforms for a sustained period is the apparent reluctance
of many employers to add workers in the face of rising demand.”  A string of weaker-than-expected reports on the  U.S.
economy , including a rise in the  unemployment rate  to 9.1
percent in May, has increased the odds the Fed will keep its
benchmark interest rate near zero into next year. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week that “accommodative monetary
policies are still needed” to boost a “frustratingly slow”
recovery.  Fed officials are discussing how quickly to begin
tightening after completing the purchase of $600 billion in U.S.
Treasuries this month. The  Federal Open Market Committee  next
meets June 21-22 in Washington and Bernanke will hold his second
press conference following the FOMC’s statement on June 22.  “As we talk with manufacturers across the Richmond Fed’s
District, we are hearing again and again that manufacturers are
determined to keep their head count down as much as possible,
whether through increasing productivity or extending hours or
just working harder,” Lacker said at a conference on
manufacturing in the Southeast U.S. hosted by Virginia Governor
Bob McDonnell.  After a Crisis  History shows that recoveries take longer when they follow
financial crises, according to the 2009 book “This Time Is
Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly,” by economists
 Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff . The authors traced
similarities among crises in 66 countries dating back to
medieval times, including government defaults, banking panics
and inflationary surges.  “The recovery that began in the second half of 2009 has
been patchy and has yet to produce a sustained period of above-
trend growth,” Lacker said. “While 2010 ended with renewed
strength in household spending, that strength abated early this
year.  “Although the factors affecting the first quarter slowdown
─- including high energy prices, bad weather and natural
disasters around the globe -─ may prove temporary, the inability
so far of the expansion to gain more traction has been
frustrating,” he said.  Lacker primarily focused in his speech on strategies to
improve economic development and manufacturing, which has been a
“bright spot” in the recovery. Investments in education and
training can pay off in higher-skilled jobs, he said.  Lacker, 55, didn’t discuss the outlook for inflation or
monetary policy in his prepared remarks. He dissented four times
in 2006 in favor of higher  interest rates . The Richmond Fed
district includes Virginia, Maryland, the Carolinas, the
 District of Columbia  and most of West Virginia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews at   smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  