-- 
Lacker May Reduce U.S. Growth Forecast After ‘Disappointing’ Economic Data

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-06-13T16:17:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/lacker-says-economic-data-prompted-him-to-consider-paring-growth-outlook.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President Jeffrey Lacker said recent U.S. economic data have
prompted him to consider lowering his forecast for growth.  “The last batch of data is disappointing and it is causing
us to rethink our outlook for growth for the remainder of the
year,” Lacker said to reporters after a speech today in
Roanoke,  Virginia . “We could be stuck below trend for some
time,” he said.  Weaker-than-expected reports on the  U.S. economy , including
an increase in the  unemployment rate  to 9.1 percent in May, have
increased the odds the Fed will keep its benchmark interest rate
near zero into next year. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last
week that “accommodative monetary policies are still needed”
to boost a “frustratingly slow” recovery.  Fed officials are discussing how quickly to begin
tightening after completing the purchase of $600 billion in U.S.
Treasuries this month. The  Federal Open Market Committee  next
meets June 21-22 in  Washington , and Bernanke will hold his
second press conference following the FOMC’s statement on June
22.  Lacker, who votes on monetary policy next year, said he
plans to revise his forecast for 2011 growth to below the 3.5
percent to 4 percent he expected in January. He declined to give
a new forecast.  “I still think growth will pick up later in the year,”
Lacker said. “The longer growth goes on at this disappointing
pace, the more seriously you have to take the notion we are in
for a period of growth at trend rate rather than above trend.”  A third round of asset purchases, or so-called quantitative
easing, wouldn’t address the reason for the sluggishness, Lacker
said.  ‘Clear Diagnosis’  “Without a clear diagnosis for the reason for how
disappointing growth has been, we ought to be very wary of
thinking monetary policy is the right response,” Lacker said.  Asked about the likelihood of a removal of monetary
stimulus this year, Lacker said a policy tightening is “within
the realm of possibility. We are going to make policy based on
how the data comes in.”  A recent drop in energy prices has helped ease inflationary
pressures, the Richmond Fed president said, adding that he
remains concerned that prices other than energy and food might
rise.  “That is something we need to watch very carefully,” he
said. “I don’t think disappointing growth means we can let our
guard down on inflation.”  Formal Target  Setting a formal inflation target would be appropriate to
address concern over rising prices, Lacker said. While he has
advocated an inflation target of 1.5 percent, he said he would
back a Fed consensus that set the goal at 2 percent.  “I think now -- this point in the business cycle -- would
be a relative good time” and “relatively useful to clarify
what we mean by  price stability ,” Lacker said at a conference
on manufacturing in the Southeast U.S. hosted by Virginia
Governor Bob McDonnell.  Lacker told reporters after his speech he “takes
seriously” the 2009 book “This Time Is Different: Eight
Centuries of Financial Folly,” by economists  Carmen Reinhart 
and  Kenneth Rogoff , which shows recoveries take longer when they
follow financial crises. The authors traced similarities among
crises in 66 countries dating back to medieval times, including
government defaults, banking panics and inflationary surges.  “The recovery that began in the second half of 2009 has
been patchy and has yet to produce a sustained period of above-
trend growth,” Lacker said in his speech. “While 2010 ended
with renewed strength in household spending, that strength
abated early this year.  First-Quarter Slowdown  “Although the factors affecting the first quarter slowdown
-- including high energy prices, bad weather and natural
disasters around the globe -- may prove temporary, the inability
so far of the expansion to gain more traction has been
frustrating,” he said.  Lacker, 55, dissented four times in 2006 in favor of higher
 interest rates . The Richmond Fed district includes Virginia,
 Maryland , the Carolinas, the  District of Columbia  and most of
 West Virginia .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  