-- 
Madagascar’s Rajoelina Rejects SADC Plan to Let Rival Ravalomanana Return

-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h
-- 
2011-06-13T10:23:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/madagascar-s-rajoelina-rejects-sadc-plan-to-let-rival-ravalomanana-return.html
Madagascar’s government, led by
 Andry Rajoelina , will reject a South African Development
Community resolution that it should allow former president  Marc Ravalomanana  to return from exile.  “We will not sign an amended roadmap,” Harry Rahajason,
minister of communications, said by phone from Antananarivo, the
capital. “We’ve already got our constitution. We agreed to take
part in SADC talks in this spirit.”  The Indian Ocean island nation’s transitional government
will keep to a previous SADC-proposed agreement that left
Rajoelina as head of a transitional government and called for
Ravalomanana to remain in South Africa until after elections, he
said.  A SADC heads-of-state summit in Johannesburg yesterday
endorsed the roadmap with some changes, including that
Ravalomanana be allowed to return to Madagascar. Rajoelina
ousted Ravalomanana as president with the help of the military
in 2009, leading to the country’s suspension from SADC and the
 African Union , and resulting in donors stopping aid that made up
two-thirds of state revenue. SADC consists of 15 southern
African states, including  South Africa .  The refusal to agree to the latest plan after two years of
SADC mediation may extend the political crisis and discredit
elections expected to take place within a year. Madagascar, with
a $9 billion economy, is the world’s largest vanilla grower,
while oil, nickel and titanium products have also attracted
investor interest.  EU Sanctions  Madagascar’s three main opposition political groups, led by
former presidents  Didier Ratsiraka ,  Albert Zafy  and
Ravalomanana, didn’t agree to the previous roadmap.  “Last night the SADC unilaterally amended their own
roadmap,” Rahajason said. “The regional mediators have nothing
to impose on Madagascar,” he said.  The decision to change an agreement that was signed by
eight of 11 political parties may lead to those parties pulling
out of SADC mediation, Rahajason said.  Rajoelina has reneged on various power-sharing agreements
over the past two years, and his government isn’t recognized by
the  United Nations Security Council , European Union parliament
said.  The EU and UNSC should “impose and extend sanctions on the
regime until the political crisis is resolved,” the EU
parliament said in a  statement  on its website.  Madagascar’s ariary has weakened 3.4 percent to 1,935.50
against the dollar since the start of 2009, according to
Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah McNeish in Johannesburg at 
 hmcneish@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  