-- 
AEP May Sell Kentucky Power Unit Facing Environmental Costs

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-06-13T22:17:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/aep-may-sell-kentucky-power-unit-facing-environmental-costs-2-.html
American Electric Power Co. may sell
its  Kentucky  Power utility if state regulators don’t approve a
customer rate increase to help pay for added environmental
costs.  It may make more sense to sell the utility if regulators
balk at allowing American Electric to recover costs of upgrading
or replacing a coal-fired power plant, President Nicholas Akins
said in an interview today at an Edison Electric Institute
meeting in  Colorado Springs ,  Colorado .  It would cost $470 million to build a natural-gas fired
plant to replace Kentucky Power’s 1,078 megawatt Big Sandy coal
facility, scheduled to be retired by 2015, said Pat Hemlepp, a
spokesman for the Columbus, Ohio-based company. The utility said
last week it plans to shutter the plant in order to comply with
a series of clean-air regulations proposed by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.  Kentucky Power “is a small company and it’s a sizable
investment,” said Akins, who became president last year and is
expected to take over as chief executive officer when  Michael Morris  retires in November. “When you make those kinds of
investments, you want to make sure you can recover it and get an
attractive return on equity.”  Other states may face similar pressure from generation
companies seeking to recoup their compliance costs if proposed
federal rules are passed to curb carbon and other emissions from
coal-fired power plants, said  Hugh Wynne , utilities analyst for
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York  who has a neutral rating
on the shares and doesn’t own any.  Raising Rates  “It’s a question that a lot of regulators are going to
face,” Wynne said. “Are they willing to raise electricity
rates to pay for the upgrades to the fleet required by the new
environmental regulations? Or do they say, ‘It’s not worth it.
Shut these plants and go buy power from somebody else.’”  American Electric has yet to ask Kentucky regulators for a
rate increase because the federal environmental rules have not
yet been completed, Hemlepp said. The state may be hesitant to
grant a large rate increase because Kentucky Power’s customers
have been hit hard by the recession, Akins said.  “We are going to work with the regulatory agencies
there,” Akins said. “That doesn’t stop us from thinking that
this is one we should consider for a possible divestiture.”  American Electric’s Kentucky Power unit reported net income
of $16.9 million for the first three months of this year, up 78
percent from $9.49 million a year earlier. The unit had revenue
of $196.1 million, according to a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Likely Buyers  Kentucky Power delivers electricity to 176,000 homes and
businesses, Hemlepp said. It had total assets worth $1.57
billion as of March 31, according to the filing.  Wynne, who rated shares of American Electric “market
perform,” said the likeliest buyers for Kentucky Power would be
PPL Corp., and Duke Energy Corp., which own power companies in
Kentucky.  “If AEP’s right, and there is no way to recover this
cost, there may be no buyers,” Wynne added.  PPL  executives aren’t pursuing additional deals after
acquiring Kentucky-based Louisville Gas and Electric Company and
Central Networks, the second-largest electricity distribution
company in the  United Kingdom , said George Lewis, spokesman for
the Allentown, Pennsylvania-based utility.  “Our executives
made it very clear that our focus is going to shift to operating
the Kentucky and U.K. acquisitions.”  A spokesman for Duke Energy, based in  Charlotte , N.C.,
declined comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 