-- 
Agriculture Output Must Grow 70% to Meet World Demand, UN Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-06-13T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/agriculture-output-must-grow-70-to-meet-world-demand-un-says.html
Global agriculture production needs
to increase 70 percent to meet food demand by the middle of the
century as more people move to cities, the  United Nations  said.  Growers will have to increase yields on existing farms as
the amount of land available for agriculture is shrinking, the
UN’s  Food and Agriculture Organization  said in a book on
farming, “Save and Farm.” About 70 percent of people will live
in urban areas by 2050, up from 50 percent today, the FAO said.  “We have no option but to further intensify crop
production,” the FAO said.  Demand for food such as wheat and rice will rise along with
the global population, which is expected to jump 33 percent to
9.2 billion by 2050, according to the FAO. Between 2015 and
2030, “an estimated 80 percent of the required food production
increases will have to come from intensification in the form of
yield increases and higher cropping intensities.”  Environmentally Friendly  “More environmentally friendly agriculture will ‘‘help to
reduce crops’ water needs by 30 percent and the energy costs of
production by up to 60 percent,’’ according to the FAO.  Little spare land is available in  South Asia  and the Near
East and north  Africa  and about 70 percent of the area that is
available, mostly in sub-Saharan Africa and  Latin America ,
suffers from soil and terrain constraints, according to the FAO.  The use of agricultural commodities in the production of
biofuels including ethanol and biodiesel will grow, the UN said.
Food costs rose to a record in February this year, UN data show.
Corn has more than doubled in the past year, wheat is up 75
percent and rice has gained 37 percent.  ‘‘Changes in demand will drive the need for significant
increases in production of all major food and feed crops,’’
according to the book. ‘‘The food price spike of 2008 and the
surge in food prices to record levels early in 2011 portend
rising and more frequent threats to world food security.’’  -- Editor: Sharon Lindores  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  