-- 
AMD Says New Llano Chip Will Beat Intel in Laptop Battery Life

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-06-13T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/amd-says-new-llano-chip-will-beat-intel-in-laptop-battery-life.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  said its
new Llano chip will help it steal orders from  Intel Corp. (INTC)  in
 laptop computers  by delivering longer battery life than its
rival’s products for the first time.  Computers built on the new chip -- a combination of a
graphics chip and microprocessor -- will be available this
month, the Sunnyvale, California-based company said today. In
addition to touting the chip’s battery performance, AMD is
trying to convince consumers they need the graphics capabilities
Llano offers.  While sales of laptop computers are growing faster than
those in the overall personal-computer business, AMD’s market
share in  notebook computers  is smaller than its slice of the
desktop PC market. The company is aiming to catch up by
emphasizing Llano’s improved battery life, a feature that has
hobbled its past attempts to challenge Intel.  “We expect that we will lead Intel in battery life in
every notebook form factor,” AMD marketing executive  John
Taylor  said in an interview. A computer using AMD’s new chip is
capable of playing two full movies using the highest-quality DVD
video on one battery charge, the company said.  The graphics power of the new chip is better than some
dedicated graphics cards sold into desktop PCs today, Taylor
said. The company purchased ATI Technologies Inc. in 2006 to
gain access to a graphics-chip maker.  AMD says Llano’s ability to let users watch and edit high-
quality video, play computer games and use multiple programs at
the same time is more important than running office software
quickly -- where Intel’s chips shine.  AMD fell 5 cents to $7.54 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have dropped 7.8 percent
this year.  The company held 13.4 percent of the market for laptop
processors at the end of the first quarter, compared with 19
percent of the total PC-chip market, according to researcher
International Data Corp. Intel controls more than 86 percent of
the laptop market and 81 percent in overall PCs, IDC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  