-- 
Ex-Barai Analyst Admits Destroying Data After Rajaratnam Arrest

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-15T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/analyst-tells-jury-he-heard-jiau-phone-in-confidential-data-1-.html
Jason Pflaum, a former Barai Capital
Management LP analyst, told jurors he destroyed data his firm
got from so-called expert networkers after Galleon Group LLC co-
founder Raj Rajaratnam was arrested on  insider trading  charges.  Pflaum testified yesterday in federal court in  Manhattan 
during the trial of Winifred Jiau, 43, the former  Primary Global
Research LLC  consultant charged with illegally passing tips
about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to hedge
fund managers, including Pflaum’s former boss, Samir Barai.  Under questioning by Jiau’s lawyer, Joanna Hendon, Pflaum,
38, said at least eight people provided Barai with nonpublic
information about technology companies, including Mark Anthony Longoria, a former employee of  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) 
Pflaum said he destroyed the files related to those tippers
without deleting files related to Jiau.  “What caused you to delete the files?” Hendon asked.  “The context was the Galleon case,” Pflaum said. “There
was some discussion internally post-Galleon. There was more
sensitivity to over-the-line business. More of a concern
internally of who we could be talking to that was over the
line.”  Barai’s Plea  Hendon asked Pflaum if Barai was concerned that the U.S.
was investigating his firm. Barai pleaded guilty on May 28 to
conspiracy to commit securities and  wire fraud , as well as to
charges of wire fraud and obstruction. Longoria, who has been
charged by the U.S., is in plea talks, his lawyer, Jonathan
Marks, has said.  Pflaum said his boss wasn’t worried after Rajaratnam and
five others were arrested in October 2009.  “The gist of the conversation was ‘let’s clean up some of
our contacts that are questionable,’” Pflaum said. “I don’t
think there was any major concern. They just wanted to make sure
I got rid of them.”  Pflaum testified he decided to secretly cooperate with the
U.S. after  Federal Bureau of Investigation  agents approached him
in October 2010. He continued to work for Barai until he pleaded
guilty in January and testified he wore a wire during this
period.  “That was a betrayal of Mr. Barai?” Hendon asked.  “You could say that,” he said.  “What would you say, Mr. Pflaum?”  “In my view, it was starting to tell the truth, being
helpful and doing the right thing,” Pflaum said.  Pflaum didn’t record his conversations with Barai, he said.  Possible Sentence  Jiau is the first of the expert networkers, who provide
industry information to financial company clients, to go to
trial on federal charges of  securities fraud  and conspiracy. She
faces as long as 25 years if convicted.  During his plea, Barai admitted instructing analysts to
destroy evidence after he saw a November news article describing
a federal grand jury investigation of hedge fund managers who
used expert networking consultants to get inside information.  Pflaum, who worked for Barai from March 2008 to January
2011, has testified that he gave the U.S. information on “more
than 10” people who he said committed insider trading.  Assistant U.S. Attorney David Leibowitz placed a stack of
e-mails of one alleged tipper, who fund managers nicknamed “10-
K” because his information was complicated like a company’s 10-
K filing. He asked Pflaum to rate the quality of inside
information which 10-K provided compared with Jiau’s.  “Generally speaking, there is no comparison,” Pflaum
said. “The information was spot on.”  “Whose information?” U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff
asked.  ‘Incredibly Specific’  “The information from Winnie,” Pflaum said. “It was
incredibly specific, while 10-K’s never touched it. She had
operating margins, earnings per share, metrics that were never
found in 10-K’s data.”  Leibowitz asked Pflaum to rank for the jury the level of
providers of inside information, including Jiau, who gave data
about companies to Barai Capital.  “On a relative basis, Winnie was at the top,” Pflaum
said. The other eight people he mentioned, including Longoria
ranked below her in accuracy and detail.  Hendon, in her opening statement to the jury, said the
nonpublic information that Jiau passed to Barai wasn’t
“material,” meaning it wasn’t something a reasonable investor
would consider important in trading and wouldn’t have a bearing
on the stock price.  Position Built  Leibowitz yesterday asked Pflaum whether he knew Barai
Capital executed trades in Marvell after Jiau passed tips about
the company during a May 2008 telephone conversation.  “I do,” Pflaum said. “The trader sat very close to me.
There’s no doubt a position was built,” he said. “I know for a
fact that it took place.”  Pflaum said he didn’t know how many trades the fund
executed in Marvell or the amount of money that it invested in
the company’s stock.  Hendon asked Pflaum whether Broadband Research LLC founder
John Kinnucan provided inside information to Barai.  “I don’t recall specifically,” Pflaum said. “We reviewed
his model. He was really trying to get us as a client. I don’t
recall him giving us any great information per se.”  Broadband Research provides research on technology
companies to hedge funds.  Nathaniel Burney, Kinnucan’s lawyer, said yesterday in a
phone interview that his client “never provided any inside
information at all.”  Prosecutors said in an April 6 letter that Kinnucan, who
hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing, was subpoenaed by the
government.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  