-- 
Maple Urges TMX Investors to Reject LSE as It Revises Bid

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-13T20:19:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/maple-would-propose-seven-directors-for-tmx-board-following-successful-bid.html
Maple Group Acquisition Corp. said
 TMX Group Inc. (X)  shareholders must vote against a takeover bid
from  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  on June 30 for Maple
Group’s rival takeover plan to proceed.  Maple Group, which includes 13 Canadian financial-services
companies and pension funds, sent documents to TMX shareholders
today supporting its unsolicited cash-and-stock takeover bid
that it values at C$3.7 billion ($3.8 billion).  Maple Group  will pay C$48 a share for 70 percent of TMX in
its revised proposal, and will offer Maple Group shares to
acquire the rest of the exchange owner in a two-step process,
Maple said today in a statement. TMX shareholders will have a 40
percent stake in the combined company. The offer expires Aug. 8.  Maple Group’s bid rivals the C$3.37 billion friendly
takeover offer for TMX by the LSE as the group of financial
firms tries to keep the bourse in Canadian hands. LSE’s all-
stock transaction is valued at C$45.46 a share, and gives TMX
shareholders a 45 percent stake in the combined company.  “We provide a significant premium and 70 percent cash
consideration, whereas the LSE provides neither a meaningful
premium nor cash,” Maple Group Chief Executive Officer Luc Bertrand said today in an investors call. “The LSE takeover
makes promises, but provides no clear growth strategy.”  TMX rose 39 cents to C$44.19 at 4 p.m. trading on the
Toronto Stock Exchange. LSE rose 5.5 pence to 949 pence in
 London .  Maple Members  Maple’s 13 members own about 4.38 million shares. Including
500,000 shares held by Bertrand, the group owns about 6.6
percent of TMX.  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , Desjardins Financial
Group, Dundee Capital Markets Inc. and  GMP Capital Inc. (GMP)  joined
Maple Group yesterday.  “The more Canadian investors they get, the more they can
sway public opinion and government officials that this is going
to be a Canadian institution,”  Ian Nakamoto , director of
research at MacDougall MacDougall & MacTier Inc. in Toronto,
which manages about C$4 billion, including shares of Canadian
banks and insurers, said in a telephone interview.  Maple Group approached TMX on May 13 with a plan to buy the
Canadian exchange owner for C$48 a share in cash and stock,
initially valuing the company at C$3.58 billion. TMX rejected
the offer on May 20, saying it wasn’t superior to its Feb. 9
agreement with LSE, prompting Maple Group to take its offer
directly to TMX investors.  Adds to Earnings  Maple Group is offering up to C$2.5 billion in cash for 70
percent of TMX, followed by a share exchange to give TMX
investors a 40 percent stake, according to today’s filing. The
previous May 13 offer provided C$48 a share in cash for 60
percent of the company. Maple Group expects its offer to add 61
cents a share to TMX earnings in 2012.  “Nothing has changed, the C$48 is a smokescreen, the only
guarantee is $33 cash per share,” LSE CEO Xavier Rolet said
today in an e-mail statement. “If they manage to execute their
new complicated structure, shareholders will be diluted down
from C$48 to $33 cash. The rest will be made up of a highly
leveraged stump, to which Maple is unable to ascribe a value.”  TMX has backed the purchase by LSE, and shareholders of both
companies vote on that deal on June 30. LSE’s agreement would
give TMX shareholders 2.9963 shares for each one they own, in a
transaction valued at C$3.34 billion. LSE investors would own 55
percent of the company, while TMX shareholders would hold the
rest.  Takeover Offers  The bids are part of more than $30 billion in takeover
offers for exchanges within six months, as bourses try to cut
costs and generate more revenue from trading in stocks, options
and futures.  TMX said in a statement today its board will review Maple
Group’s offer and provide a response in a directors’ circular on
a “timely basis.”  Maple Group also said it aims to acquire Alpha Group, a
bank-owned operator of an alternative trading system that
competes with the Toronto exchange, and Canadian securities
clearing house CDS Inc. to integrate into TMX after completing
the takeover. Bertrand gave CDS a value of about C$170 million,
and Alpha a value of C$140 million to C$170 million during
today’s investor call.  Maple Group investors also include  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,
National Bank of Canada, Caisse de Depot et Placement du  Quebec ,
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board,  Ontario Teachers’ Pension
Plan , Alberta Investment Management Corp., and Fonds de
Solidarite FTQ.  Original Four Banks  The original four banks in the Maple Group would own 22
percent of TMX -- down from 25 percent from the original
proposal -- if the bid were to succeed, while the five pension
funds would own 31 percent, down from 35 percent. No individual
Maple shareholder would own more than 10 percent of the company.
The group has committed to buy C$1.62 billion of Maple Group
shares under the proposal.  Pension funds Caisse de Depot, AIMCo,  Canada  Pension and
Ontario Teachers’ each committed C$192.2 million of equity for
the deal, the most among the group, according to the filing. The
investment banking units of CIBC, Toronto-Dominion, National
Bank, Scotiabank each committed C$149.1 million. Manulife,
Desjardins and Fonds de Solidarite FTQ committed C$75 million
apiece, and GMP and Dundee each committed C$15 million.  ‘Excellent Investment’  Manulife, based in Toronto, is Canada’s largest insurer and
Levis, Quebec-based Desjardins is the country’s biggest credit
union group. Toronto-based GMP ranks second in size among non-
bank brokerages in Canada. Dundee Capital Markets is a Toronto-
based brokerage.  “This is an excellent investment for Manulife that makes
sense for our shareholders and our business,” Manulife Chief
Executive Officer Donald Guloien said yesterday in a statement.  “Canada’s small- and mid-cap companies and markets will do
better with Maple than they will with the LSE,” Ned Goodman,
chairman of Dundee Capital said yesterday in a statement. “We
believe it is especially important to keep Toronto as the mining
capital of the world.”  The Maple Group bid wouldn’t require federal government
approval through  Industry Canada  because it’s not a foreign
transaction, though it will face reviews by provincial
regulators and Canada’s competition bureau, the group said in a
May 16 presentation.  ‘Thundering Stampede’  “The thundering stampede to join Maple and save the TSX is
drowning out the needed policy debate on what core beliefs
should shape Canada’s financial architecture,” said Eric Bushell, chief investment officer at CI Investments Inc.’s
Signature Global Advisors unit, a money management firm. “Who
stands up to defend competition? Incumbents, not likely.”  Maple Group said it has more than C$1 trillion in assets
under management and represents about half of trading on the
Toronto Stock Exchange.  Proposed board members by Maple Group include  National Bank
of Canada (NA)  Vice Chairman Luc Bertrand and former Canadian
politicians-turned-bank executives Jim Prentice of CIBC and
Frank McKenna of Toronto-Dominion, Maple Group said. Maple has
also slated Caisse de depot et placement du Quebec Executive
Vice President Marie Giguere; AltaCorp President and Chief
Executive Officer George Gosbee; Bill Royan of the Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan and GMP Capital Deputy Chairman  Kevin Sullivan .  Maple Group also said there would be “representation”
from the current TMX Group board.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
   dalexander3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 