-- 
Maple Group Adds Manulife, Desjardins, for Its TMX Takeover Bid

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k ,   M a t t   W a l c o f f   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-13T04:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/maple-group-adds-manulife-desjardins-for-tmx-3-65-billion-takeover-bid.html
Maple Group Acquisition Corp. said
 Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  and three other Canadian firms joined
its C$3.58 billion ($3.65 billion) unsolicited takeover bid for
 TMX Group Inc. (X) , owner of the Toronto Stock Exchange.  The four additional investors, which also include
Desjardins Financial Group, Dundee Capital Markets Inc. and  GMP
Capital Inc. (GMP) , would own about 7 percent of TMX if the bid
succeeds, Maple Group said yesterday in a statement.  Maple Group ’s offer rivals a friendly takeover of TMX by
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , as the financial firms try to
keep the bourse in Canadian hands. The group, which includes
four Canadian banks and five pension funds, said it has more
than C$1 trillion in assets under management and represents
about half of trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  “The more Canadian investors they get, the more they can
sway public opinion and government officials that this is going
to be a Canadian institution,” said  Ian Nakamoto , director of
research at MacDougall MacDougall & MacTier Inc. in Toronto,
which manages about C$4 billion, including shares of Canadian
banks and insurers.  Maple approached TMX on May 13 with a plan to buy the
Canadian exchange owner for C$48 a share in cash and stock. TMX
rejected the offer on May 20, saying it wasn’t superior to its
Feb. 9 agreement with LSE, prompting Maple to take its offer
directly to TMX investors.  LSE Agreement  TMX has backed the C$44.95-a-share all-stock purchase by LSE,
and shareholders of both companies vote on that deal on June 30.
LSE’s agreement would give TMX shareholders 2.9963 shares for
each they own, in a transaction valued at C$3.34 billion. LSE
investors would own 55 percent of the company, while TMX
shareholders would hold the rest.  Carolyn Quick, a spokeswoman for TMX, and LSE spokeswoman
Victoria Brough declined to comment.  Under the Maple plan, TMX shareholders would get C$33.52 in
cash plus 0.3016 of a Maple share for each TMX share, the
company said. The group, which was created for this bid, would
pay as much as C$2.5 billion in cash under the proposal.  Manulife, based in Toronto, is Canada’s largest insurer and
Quebec-based Desjardins is the country’s biggest credit union
group. Toronto-based GMP ranks second in size among non-bank
brokerages in Canada. Dundee Capital Markets is a Toronto-based
brokerage.  Investors  “This is an excellent investment for Manulife that makes
sense for our shareholders and our business,” Manulife Chief
Executive Officer Donald Guloien said yesterday in a statement.  Maple Group investors also include  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,
 National Bank of Canada (NA) , Caisse de Depot et Placement du  Quebec ,
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board,  Ontario Teachers’ Pension
Plan , Alberta Investment Management Corp., and Fonds de
Solidarite FTQ.  The original four banks in the group would own 22 percent
of TMX -- down from 25 percent from the original proposal -- if
the bid were to succeed, while the five pension funds would own
31 percent, down from 35 percent. No individual Maple
shareholder would own more than 10 percent of the company.  Proportionally Decrease  Current TMX shareholders would own 40 percent of the
company under the Maple Group proposal.  “ Canada ’s small- and mid-cap companies and markets will do
better with Maple than they will with the LSE,” said Ned Goodman, chairman of Dundee Capital. “We believe it is
especially important to keep Toronto as the mining capital of
the world.”  Maple also said it aims to acquire Alpha Group, a bank-
owned operator of an alternative trading system that competes
with the Toronto exchange, and Canadian securities clearing
house CDS Inc. to integrate into TMX after completing the
takeover.  The bids are part of more than $30 billion in takeover
offers for exchanges within six months, as bourses try to cut
costs and generate more revenue from trading in stocks, options
and futures.  The Maple bid wouldn’t require federal government approval
through  Industry Canada  because it’s not a foreign transaction,
though it will face reviews by provincial regulators and
Canada’s competition bureau, the group said in a May 16
presentation.  “The thundering stampede to join Maple and save the TSX is
drowning out the needed policy debate on what core beliefs
should shape Canada’s financial architecture,” said Eric Bushell, chief investment officer at CI Investments Inc.’s
Signature Global Advisors unit, a money management firm. “Who
stands up to defend competition? Incumbents, not likely.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 Mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 