-- 
Apple, Sanofi, Nordstrom, SinoHub: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-06-13T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/apple-sanofi-teva-nordstrom-sinohub-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said it will defend seven
iPhone application developers that were accused of patent
infringement by  Lodsys LLC .  The lawsuit and “threats to other Apple developers
adversely affect the value of Apple’s license and its business
with the developers,” the company said in a June 9 filing to a
federal court in Marshall,  Texas . Apple asked the court for
permission to intervene, saying the developers may not be able
to “effectively represent Apple’s interests in this case.”  Closely held Lodsys on May 31 accused the developers of
infringing two patents for ways to interact with customers
through the apps. Apple said it has a licensing agreement with
the Texas company that also covers the app makers. Apple, based
in Cupertino,  California , said it wants the chance to argue that
Lodsys had already been paid once for the technology and wasn’t
entitled to a second payment for the same use of the inventions.  The infringement claims “are based substantially or
entirely on the developers’ use of products and services that
Apple is authorized to provide under the license and which
Lodsys claims embody the patents in suit,” Apple said.  Apple said it needs to be able to protect agreements it has
covering more than 425,000 apps.  “This litigation has fundamentally disrupted Apple’s
relationships with the developers and with other developers, and
places in jeopardy the revenue that Apple derives from those
relationships,” the company said.  Lodsys, which had sent letters to the developers last month
demanding licensing fees, said in a posting on its website that
it sued faster than it planned after Apple General Counsel Bruce
Sewell demanded Lodsys stop sending such letters.  “Apple appeared to give the developer community what they
wanted,” Lodsys said on its website. “Unfortunately for
developers, Apple’s claim of infallibility has no discernible
basis in law or fact.”  The companies targeted in the complaint are Combay Inc.,
maker of Mega Poker Online Texas Holdem; Iconfactory Inc., maker
of Twitterrific for the iPhone, iPad and Mac; Shovelmate,
developer of 69 Positions; Quickoffice Inc., maker of
Quickoffice Connect; Richard Shinderman, who made Hearts and
Daggers; Wulven Game Studios, maker of Shadow Era; and Illusion
Labs.  The case is Lodsys LLC v. Combay Inc., 11cv272, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Marshall).  Sanofi’s Viehbacher Says  Canada ’s Patent System Behind U.S.  Sanofi Chief Executive Christopher A. Viehbacher said
Canada’s patent system is inadequate for pharmaceutical
companies, the Montreal Gazette  reported .  Viehbacher, interviewed at the International Economic Forum
of the Americas conference in Montreal, told the Gazette that
Canada’s patent system “isn’t anywhere near being equivalent to
Europe or the U.S.”  He said, and the Gazette reported, that what he perceives
as the inadequacies of the Canadian patent system sends the
world a signal about whether Canada “is really a country that’s
dedicated to research or not?”  Sanofi-Aventis lost Canadian patent protection for Altace,
a cardiac drug, in 2006, causing a decline in revenue, the
Gazette reported.  AstraZeneca Loses Ruling Over Nexium-Related European Patent  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and 12 other generic-
drug makers won a challenge at the  European Patent Office  to
invalidate one of the patents on  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s ulcer
treatment Nexium.  The European patent agency’s opposition division overturned
the patent June 9 after a three-day hearing due to a “lack of
inventiveness,” Danielle Wagner, a spokeswoman for the Munich,
Germany-based EPO said in an interview.  The setback for AstraZeneca comes as it defends some of its
European patents for Nexium at a U.K. trial against Ranbaxy
Laboratories Ltd. and two years after it settled related
litigation in the U.S. Generics makers are vying for a share of
Nexium’s $4.97 billion in annual sales, which made it
AstraZeneca’s second-best selling drug last year.  AstraZeneca will decide about its next steps once it has
reviewed the decision, said Isabelle Jouin, a spokeswoman for
the London-based company. She declined to comment on how the
decision affects Nexium’s protection against generics.  The EPO will publish its written decision within the next
two months. AstraZeneca then has the right to appeal.  Other opponents of the patent, which was granted in 2009,
include Novartis AG’s Hexal and Sanofi’s Zentiva.  In dispute is European patent  EP1020461 .  Hewlett-Packard Wins ITC Ruling in Microjet Patent Dispute  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  won a U.S. trade ruling in its efforts
to prevent Microjet Technology Co. from importing ink cartridges
into the U.S.  Robert Rogers, a judge with the U.S. International Trade
Commission, found June 10 that Hsin Chu, Taiwan-based Microjet
violated HP’s patent rights, according to a notice posted on the
agency’s website. The judge’s findings are subject to review by
the six-member commission, which has the power to block imports.  HP has a patent-infringement case against Microjet pending
in federal court in  San Jose , California. In that case, Microjet
is accused of infringing the  Palo Alto , California-based
company’s patent 6,234,598, which relates to inkjet printheads.  That case is Hewlett-Packard Co., v. Microjet Technology
Co., 5:10-cv-02175-JF, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Nordstrom, Dillard’s Sued Over Magnetic Snap Trademark  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  of Seattle, Dillard’s Inc. of Little Rock,
Arkansas, and three other retail chains were sued for trademark
infringement by a maker of snap fasteners.  Romag Fasteners Inc.  of Milford,  Connecticut , said the
retailers are selling handbags with magnetic snap fasteners that
are falsely labeled Romag products. According to the complaint
filed June 9 in federal court in  New Haven , Connecticut, among
the products that infringe are handbags made by  Fossil Inc. (FOSL)   Romag sued Richardson, Texas-based Fossil in the same court
last November, claiming their products infringed the Romag
trademarks and also patent 5,722,126, which covers the magnetic
snap fasteners.  U.S. District Judge Christopher F. Droney issued an order
Nov. 20 in that case, temporarily barring Fossil from selling
any bags with the counterfeit Romag snaps. That case is set for
trial some time after April 30, 2012, according to Bloomberg
data.  That case is Romag Fasteners Inc., v. Fossik Inc., 3:10-cv-
01827-CFD, U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut (New
Haven).  In the case against the retailers, Romag asked the court
for an order barring the sale of infringing items, and for their
destruction. Additionally, the company seeks money damages,
including extra damages to punish them for their actions, and
awards of attorney fees and litigation costs. Romag doesn’t
allege they infringed the patent in dispute in the other case.  Romag is represented by  David R. Schaefer  and  Sean M.
Fisher  of  Brenner, Saltzman & Wallman LLP  of New Haven, and
 Norman H. Zivin  of  New York ’s  Cooper & Dunham LLP .  The case is Romag Fasteners Inc., v.  Dillard’s Inc (DDS) , 3:11-
cv-00929, U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut (New
Haven).  SinoHub Applies to Register ‘Topolo’ as Chinese Mark for Phones  SinoHub Inc., a Shenzhen, China-based developer of
software, said in a statement that its application to register
“Topolo” as a trademark was accepted by government
authorities.  The company plans to use the mark as a brand for mobile
phones to be sold in  China , the company said.  Under Chinese IP rules, SinoHub can use “Topolo” as an
unregistered mark for one year, after which it will be eligible
for final approval as a protected registered trademark.  In the same statement, SinoHub said it’s submitted an
application to China’s Ministry of Industry and Information
Technology to sell phones under that brand. Government approval
for the sale license may take as long as two months, according
to the statement.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Apple EULA Gets Dramatic Reading by Actor Richard Dreyfuss  Apple Inc., maker of the iPad and iPhone, received a
tweaking on the CNET.com website for its software licensing.  CNET asked actor  Richard Dreyfuss  to do  a dramatic reading
of Apple’s end-user license agreement .  Four different sound files are posted on the website,
including one about the duration of the license that is done in
a Dr. Strangelove-like German accent.  In his own voice, Dreyfuss reads the section of the license
warning against the use of the software “in the operation of
nuclear facilities, aircraft navigation or communication
systems, or air traffic control systems, or life support
machines or other equipment in which the failure of the Apple
software could lead to death, personal injury or severe physical
or environmental damage.”  CNET said that with Dreyfuss’ blessing it’s releasing the
recordings under the  Creative Commons Attribution License  so
that users can remix them if desired.  Google, WIPO Team up for Web-Based Rights-Management System  Google Inc. (GOOG) , creator of the most used Internet search
engine, is partnering with the World Intellectual Property
Organization to set up a music-registration program for 11 West
African countries.  WIPO, a United Nations agency, said in a  statement  that a
new Web-based system for the collective management of copyright
and related rights would be developed and expanded. The system
would help rights societies in the relevant countries identify
works and interested parties, to make cross-border licensing
easier.  The countries involved in the project are Benin, Burkina
Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Mali, Niger,
Nigeria, Senegal and Togo.  WIPO Director Francis Gurry said in the statement that the
new system will enable a rights holder to register a work one
time and have that information stored across all the member
countries.  Diabe Siby, who heads Senegal’s copyright office, said the
project “has the potential to enable developing countries to
participate more fully and effectively in the benefits of the
global music industry.”  Participation in the system is voluntary, according to the
WIPO statement. Google is the technology partner in the Web-
based system.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Foley Adds Former USPTO Official to Its IP Practice Group  Foley & Lardner LLP hired Tony Y. Hickey for its IP
practice, the Milwaukee-based firm said in a  statement .  Hickey  joins from the U.S. patent and Trademark Office
where she was deputy chief of staff. There she was a senior
adviser on executive policy, legislative and USPTO operational
issues.  She has also served as an intellectual property attache
for the USPTO in  Mexico  City where she advises embassy officials
and U.S. companies doing business in Mexico on IP protection.  During her time at the USPTO, Hickey also worked as a
trademark examining attorney, and argued before the Trademark
Trial and Appeal Board.  She has an undergraduate degree from the University of
 Colorado  and a law degree from Southern Methodist University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 