-- 
Asian Currencies Fall, Led by Ringgit, as Growth Concern Curbs Risk Taking

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-06-13T08:24:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/asian-currencies-fall-led-by-ringgit-as-growth-concern-curbs-risk-taking.html
Asian currencies fell, led by
Malaysia’s ringgit, as signs the global economic recovery is
losing momentum curbed demand for emerging-market assets.  Seven of the 10 most-traded regional currencies excluding
the yen dropped last week as overseas investors pulled $1.6
billion from equities in Taiwan,  Thailand  and South Korea,
according to exchange data. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of
shares fell for a fourth day before a report tomorrow that
economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict will show U.S. retail
sales dropped in May for the first time since June 2010.  The ringgit slumped 0.7 percent to 3.0411 per dollar as of
4:16 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  Singapore  dollar dropped 0.4 percent to S$1.2371
and South Korea’s won slid 0.3 percent to 1,085.85.  India ’s
rupee weakened 0.3 percent to 44.85 and the Thai baht declined
0.2 percent to 30.47.  “Stocks are weak globally and investors are becoming risk
averse in general,” said Shigehisa Shiroki, chief trader on the
Asian and emerging-markets team at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
 Tokyo . “With deterioration in the U.S. economic data, we may
see some more downward pressure.”  The ringgit retreated on speculation  Europe ’s debt crisis
will reduce risk appetite. A government report on June 9 showed
Malaysian industrial production decreased in April for the first
time since November 2009, falling 2.2 percent from a year
earlier.  European Debt Crisis  “Manufacturing data are indicating the slowdown and the
Europe situation will likely take months to resolve,” said
Calbert Loh, head of treasury at Bangkok Bank Bhd. in Kuala
Lumpur. “These could bring back double-dip concerns and limit
the ringgit appreciation trend.”  The won fell to a two-week low ahead of Chinese data
tomorrow that economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect will show
industrial output in  South Korea ’s biggest export market cooled
in May. A “perfect storm” of fiscal woe in the U.S., a
slowdown in  China , European debt restructuring and stagnation in
 Japan  may damage the global economy, Nouriel Roubini, the New
York University professor who predicted the global financial
crisis, said in a June 11 interview in Singapore.  Greece is seeking its second bailout in as many years and
Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker, who leads the group of euro-
area finance ministers, said June 11 any additional financial
aid must include “voluntary” investor participation and meet
the approval of central bankers.  Thai Elections  “Economic indicators from China due tomorrow will provide
a clearer picture of where the global economic recovery is
headed,” said Byeon Ji Young, a currency analyst at Woori
Futures Co. in Seoul.  The baht fell to its weakest level in three months after
overseas investors cut holdings of the nation’s equities on
concern the election on July 3 will lead to political violence
and instability. Global funds sold $672 million more local
shares than they bought this month through June 10, according to
exchange data.  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah weakened 0.2 percent to 8,540
per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Taiwan ’s
dollar dropped 0.2 percent to NT$28.892, the Philippine peso
declined 0.1 percent to 43.335 and China’s yuan slipped 0.07
percent to 6.4845.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  