-- 
ATP Tennis Chief Adam Helfant Says He’ll Leave Men’s Tour at End of Year

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-13T17:06:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/atp-tennis-chief-helfant-to-leave-tour-at-year-end-after-boosting-revenue.html
Adam Helfant will quit as executive
chairman of the  ATP World Tour  at the end of the year after
increasing the revenue and reserves of men’s tennis during his
three-year stay.  The 46-year-old said he’s leaving for “professional
reasons” without giving details. The tour’s commercial revenue
will have risen by around 65 percent during Helfant’s time, the
ATP said today in a statement. Its reserves are forecast to have
increased by more than 1,100 percent in the period.  “We’re in the midst of a golden age now in terms of the
action on court,” Helfant said in a phone interview from
Riverside,  Connecticut . “We plan on trying to take advantage of
that from a business perspective. With a little luck, we’ll have
an announcement or two by the end of the year.”  Harvard-educated Helfant, a former  Nike Inc. (NKE)  vice
president, joined the ATP at the start of 2009. He succeeded
Etienne de Villiers, a former Walt Disney Co. executive who had
joined the ATP in June 2005.  The appointment of Helfant came as tennis and other sports
including  Major League Baseball , Formula One, soccer and golf
struggled to keep sponsors and find new ones during the economic
crisis. Helfant joined the organization, which has 63
tournaments in 32 countries, a month after a 12-year contract
with its main title sponsor, Mercedes-Benz, had expired.  The ATP in 2010 signed Grupo Modelo SAB’s Corona Extra beer
brand as a global sponsor through 2015, extended its deal with
Japanese office equipment maker Ricoh Co. and added a three-year
worldwide deal with FedEx Corp., operator of the world’s biggest
cargo airline.  Shortened Season  Helfant also shortened the men’s tennis season, which had
been a key focus of his leadership. From the end of 2012, the
offseason will be extended to seven weeks from five weeks to
give players more time to rest and recuperate. Top-ranked  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  was critical of the duration of the campaign,
which runs from January until the end of November and is one of
the longest in professional sports.  Roger Federer , president of the ATP Player Council and a
16-time Grand Slam champion, thanked Helfant “for his excellent
leadership and contributions during his time at the ATP.”  “We achieved a lot together and will be sorry to see him
go at the end of the year,” the Swiss player said in an e-
mailed ATP statement. “The sport is in great shape and we look
forward to helping to identify a new leader for this important
position.”  Reports on Salary  Recent reports by publications including Sports Business
Journal and World Tennis Magazine, suggesting that he might
leave because the board would not meet his financial demands,
were “wrong,” Helfant said. The ATP confirmed in an e-mailed
statement Helfant had not asked for any pay increase.  “I was made an offer, and never countered, never made any
demands, never threatened to resign, and never specified terms
that are required to stay longer-term,” Helfant said. “The
board asked me to stay, and made me an offer. I considered it,
thanked them for it, and declined it.”  Gavin Forbes, an ATP board member, said in the statement
that Helfant had done a “terrific job” and that the board is
“disappointed he will not be returning next year, but we
respect his decision and wish him all the best. The Tour is in a
fantastic position and well-placed to continue on the same
exciting path.”  Helfant, who is flying to  London  today for meetings of the
ATP board at the end of the week, said he’s unsure what he’ll do
next.  “I don’t know,” he said. “And I’m not in any rush to
figure it out. I’m looking forward to considering other
opportunities, and I’m excited about that, but I really do not
know what will be next for me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  