-- 
Mauritius Expected to Raise Its Benchmark Interest Rate to Curb Inflation

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-06-13T08:35:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/mauritius-expected-to-raise-its-benchmark-interest-rate-to-curb-inflation.html
Mauritius’s central bank will
probably increase its benchmark interest rate to curb price
increases with inflation near the highest level in more than two
years.  “It’s highly probable that the rate will rise by 0.25
percent to 5.5 percent,” Eric Ng, director of PluriConseil
Ltd., an economic advisory company, said on June 9 by phone from
Port Louis, the capital. “The central bank will want to
minimize all inflation expectations”.  Seventeen of 30 analysts surveyed by PluriConseil expect
the benchmark rate to rise, Ng said.  Inflation accelerated to 7.2 percent in March, the fastest
pace since November 2008, before slipping back to 7.1 percent in
May, the  Central Statistics Office  said on June 7. Central bank
Governor Rundheersing Bheenick said in an interview on April 30
that the bank will “continue the process” of normalizing
rates. The bank raised the rate by half a percentage point at
its meeting on March 28.  Higher global food and fuel prices have added to inflation,
even though a stronger rupee helped ease the pace of increases
in import prices. Mauritius’s currency has strengthened about 10
percent versus the dollar in 2011, according to Bloomberg data.  The rupee weakened by 1.2 percent to 27.95 rupees today,
the biggest intraday decline since May 31.  Analysts including Renganaden Padayachy, an economist at
the Ebene-based Mauritius Chamber of Commerce & Industry, said a
rate increase may stifle economic growth, which the nation’s
statistics office said on March 31 will probably reach 4.5
percent this year compared with 4.2 percent in 2010.  “It should remain unchanged,” Padayachy said by phone on
June 10. “Any increase will only slow down growth, not
inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port Louis  at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  