-- 
Mauritius Central Bank Raises Interest Rate to 5.5% to Counter Inflation

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-06-13T15:17:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/mauritius-central-bank-raises-interest-rate-to-5-5-to-counter-inflation.html
Mauritius’s central bank raised its
benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to
rein in inflation that is near its highest level in more than
two years.  The repo rate was increased to 5.5 percent, the Port Louis-
based Bank of Mauritius said in a statement on its website
today, following a quarterly Monetary Policy Committee meeting.
It’s the second consecutive increase.  “MPC members felt that, with the output gap nearing zero
and underlying inflationary pressure not showing signs of
abating, the process of normalizing the key repo rate should be
continued,” it said. “The MPC considered it important to
prevent the high consumer price inflation from generating
second-round effects.”  Inflation in the Indian Ocean nation, a net importer of
food and fuels, accelerated for six consecutive months to 7.2
percent in March from 2.5 percent in September as imports bills
soared, driven by global price increases. It stood at 7.1
percent in May, the  Central Statistics Office  said on June 7.  “The central bank wants to preserve the purchasing power
of the citizens,” Imrith Ramtohul, a chartered financial
analyst at Port Louis-based Mauritius Union Group, said by phone
before the rate decision. “The committee wants to encourage
savings with positive real interest rates.”  Europe Trade  The central bank kept its forecast for economic growth this
year at 4.6 percent, even though there are “uncertainties
clouding the economic prospects of some of the country’s trading
partner,” the Bank of Mauritius said.  Europe is the country’s main market, buying 65 percent of
Mauritian exports for the quarter through March, the data agency
said on May 31. Mauritius earns most of its foreign currency
from tourism, and exports of sugar, clothing and textiles. About
two thirds of tourists to the island are from  Europe , the
statistics office said on May 19. It imports all its fuel
requirements.  Mauritius’s rupee weakened 1.1 percent to 28.58 against the
dollar by 6:40 p.m. in  Port Louis , paring gains this year to 8
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  