-- 
Maybank Plans to Make RHB Takeover Proposal by End of June

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 
2011-06-13T08:16:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/maybank-plans-to-make-rhb-takeover-proposal-by-end-of-june.html
Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) , Malaysia’s
biggest lender, will present a proposal to acquire rival RHB
Capital Bhd. by the end of the month, its chairman said.  “An acquisition would give us scale,” Malayan Banking
Chairman Megat Zaharuddin Megat Mohd Nor told reporters in Kuala
Lumpur today. “You need scale to compete. Not only the
incumbent Southeast Asian players are trying to grow their
business here, we have global players from other parts of the
world that are focusing in this part of the world.”  Malayan Banking, or Maybank, and its biggest local rival
 CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  last month won approval from the
country’s central bank to begin competing merger talks with  RHB
Capital Bhd. (RHBC)  to potentially create  Southeast Asia ’s biggest
lender by market value. The combined capitalization of Maybank
and RHB would be $28.6 billion, based on today’s share prices at
the 12:30 p.m. trading break, exceeding Singapore’s  DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. (DBS)   Kuala Lumpur-based Maybank will only proceed with the
acquisition if it adds to earnings, Megat Zaharuddin said. It
would be “disciplined” not to overpay, Chief Executive Officer
Abdul Wahid Omar said.  Malaysia’s two biggest banks are seeking the acquisition to
expand amid rising competition as the central bank grants more
licenses to international players including Bank of China Ltd.
 Hong Leong Bank Bhd. (HLBK)  last month bought EON Capital Bhd., while
ECM Libra Financial Group Bhd. is said to have appointed an
adviser to find a buyer.  RHB was last month overtaken as  Malaysia ’s fourth-biggest
lender by assets following Hong Leong’s purchase of EON. RHB has
financial service operations including a branch network,
treasury,  investment banking  and Islamic finance.  Maybank fell 0.7 percent to 8.72 ringgit as at 3:58 p.m. in
Kuala Lumpur trading, tracking a 0.6 percent drop in the
benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index. RHB Capital was 0.6
percent lower at 9.84 ringgit, while CIMB was unchanged.  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB) , which owns 25 percent stake
of RHB’s shares, yesterday announced it won Malaysian central
bank approval to begin talks to sell its interest to Abu Dhabi
government-owned Aabar Investments PJSC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  