-- 
Baghdad Co. Wins Contract for 500-Megawatt Gas-Fired Power Plant

-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-06-13T13:22:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/baghdad-co-wins-contract-for-500-megawatt-gas-fired-power-plant.html
Baghdad Co. won a $130 million
contract to build a 500-megawatt power station in central Iraq,
said Masaab Serri, an Electricity Ministry spokesman.  The  company  is scheduled to build the natural-gas fired
power plant within 18 months in Haidariya in the Najaf region,
he said today in a telephone interview.  The other five bidders for the project were South Korea’s
Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co.,  Metka SA (METTK)  of  Greece ,
Turkey’s Enka Insaat & Sanayi AS,  Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI)  of  India 
and one unidentified Jordanian company.  Iraq faces electricity shortages eight years after the
U.S.-led invasion that ousted President  Saddam Hussein  and its
generation and distribution network have suffered from decades
of conflict, sanctions and sabotage. The country sought bids
this year to build more than 60 power plants to add more than
14,000 megawatts to the grid.  Iraq produces 7,000 megawatts and imports 1,000 megawatts
while domestic demand totals about 14,000 megawatts, Iraqi
Electricity Minister Raad Shallal said in April.  The Iraqi government energy committee decided to cancel
tenders announced in December for the construction of four power
plants to boost power-generation capacity by 2,750 megawatts.
The bids were for a 1,250-megawatt plant near Basra, and three
500-megawatt plants in the cities of Samawa, Diwaniya and
Amarah.  “These proved to be non-profitable for the Electricity
Ministry, as the tenders were for building and operating the
stations,” Serri said. “We are studying the possibility of
issuing new tenders just for their construction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  