-- 
Baltics Must Control Wages to Qualify for Euro

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-06-13T11:37:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/baltics-must-control-wages-to-qualify-for-euro-world-bank-says.html
Latvia  and  Lithuania  must stick to
wage cuts implemented during the economic crisis to tame
inflation and qualify for euro adoption, said Thomas Laursen,
the  World Bank ’s manager for the Baltic states.  The euro remains “an excellent anchor” for both
countries, Laursen said in a June 10 interview in Warsaw.  Lithuania, which in 2006 became the only nation rejected
for euro adoption, and neighboring Latvia both risk missing
their goal of joining the euro region in 2014 as rising
commodity prices fuel inflation. Consumer-price growth
accelerated to 5 percent in both countries last month, the
highest in two years.  “It should be possible for both Lithuania and Latvia to
join the  euro zone  over the next couple of years,” Laursen
said. “They do have a problem with inflation, so they need to
be very careful. They need to go very carefully with wages. It’s
extremely important they don’t unwind the process they
started.”  Latvia implemented austerity measures equal to 16 percent
of gross domestic product and Lithuania’s efforts totaled 12
percent of GDP as their economies went through the world’s worst
recessions during the credit crunch. Latvia reduced state wages
by 14 percent and Lithuania by 9 percent during the crisis.  To qualify for euro membership, inflation must be within
1.5 percentage points of the average in the three European Union
countries with the lowest rates, making the current limit 3.1
percent.  Estonia, another Baltic country, in January became the
first former Soviet state to adopt the single currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net 
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  