-- 
Barclays Agrees to Pay U.K. Customers’ Payment Protection Insurance Claims

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-06-13T15:36:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/barclays-lloyds-rbs-get-extension-on-ppi-complaints-by-fsa.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  will reimburse the full
payment-protection insurance premiums plus 8 percent interest to
customers whose claims were put on hold during a court
challenge.  The bank will compensate customers sold payment-protection
insurance without being told they could buy it from another
lender, Barclays said in an e-mailed statement today. The
 British Bankers’ Association , an industry group, lost a court
challenge in April to the Financial Services Authority’s PPI
guidelines.  Barclays,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  were given more time to handle the customer
complaints by the FSA today after the court challenge created a
backlog. Barclays said in May it would set aside 1 billion
pounds ($1.63 billion) to resolve the claims.  “Barclays made a commitment to process all on-hold PPI
complaints as soon as practicable,” the London-based bank said.
“We have said before that when we get things wrong, we
apologize, and work hard and work fast to put them right as
quickly as possible.”  The banks have as much as 16 weeks to respond to the
complaints, rather than eight weeks, the Financial Services
Authority said in a statement today.  “Some firms are facing a huge backlog and now a surge of
new complaints, which has created a bottleneck,” said  Margaret Cole , the FSA’s interim director for business conduct. “It is
not in the interests of consumers to receive further poor
handling of their complaints as a result.”  PPI Revenue  PPI generates as much as 5.5 billion pounds in annual
revenue for U.K. banks, with about 6.5 million policies sold in
2006, the FSA has estimated. The insurance covers payments on
credit cards and mortgages in case of illness or unemployment.  Customers who bought PPI rarely compared prices and terms
or switched providers, and usually weren’t aware they could buy
it from a firm other than their lender, the U.K.’s Competition
Commission has said. The FSA introduced rules in August after it
found financial firms reject more than half of PPI complaints
they received, and some rejected “almost all of them.”  Edinburgh-based RBS said in May it would earmark 850
million pounds to deal with the claims, after already making a
previous provision of 100 million pounds. Lloyds, the biggest
provider of PPI, set aside 3.2 billion pounds for the
complaints. HSBC Holdings Plc said it estimated its liability at
$440 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  