-- 
Belarus Must Accept Structural Change for New Aid, IMF Says

-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-06-13T14:47:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/belarus-must-agree-to-structural-changes-before-winning-new-aid-imf-says.html
Belarus  must agree to structural
changes in its economy before receiving additional aid from
international lenders as the nation struggles to meet its
financing needs, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Belarus should let the exchange rate float and boost
 interest rates  to slow the expansion of credit, said  Chris Jarvis , head of the IMF mission in Belarus. Any new program
would be for at least three years, compared with the 15-month,
$3.5 billion loan Belarus received in 2009, he said, adding that
there have been no “substantive discussions” on the amount.  “The Belarusian economic crisis is serious, but there is a
way out,” Jarvis told reporters in Minsk, the capital. “The
main thing that is necessary is agreement on a strong program
that is sufficient to fix the problems Belarus faces. We would
also have to be sure that all actors -- the president,
government and national bank -- are committed to that program.”  Belarus said June 4 it was seeking a new bailout from the
IMF to help cover a current-account deficit that reached 16
percent of gross domestic product last year. The government
devalued its currency by 36 percent against the dollar on May 23
after the world’s highest benchmark interest rate failed to stem
the ruble’s plunge. The central bank raised the benchmark rate
by 2 percentage points to 16 percent on May 30.  The government believes that it is entitled to additional
aid from the Washington-based IMF, Prime Minister Mikhail Myasnikovich said in a statement after the news conference.  ‘Right’ to Aid  “We, as legal IMF members, have the right for the specific
support in difficult times,” Myasnikovich told Jarvis, according
to the statement posted on the government’s website.  Belarus’s appeal for financial assistance may be
complicated by Belarusian Alexander Lukashenko’s clampdown on
the opposition and his reluctance to transform the state-managed
economy to a market-driven one.  Lukashenko, dubbed  Europe ’s last dictator by the
administration of former U.S. President  George W. Bush ,
imprisoned opposition presidential candidates after last year’s
election, prompting sanctions from the U.S. and European Union.
The government last week fined five demonstrators after a
protest against high fuel prices.  Moody’s Investors Service rates the country’s sovereign
debt B2, five steps below investment grade and on par with
Honduras and  Venezuela . Belarus’s sovereign bond due 2015 rose
to 92.533 as of 4:49 p.m. in Minsk, pushing the yield down 20
basis points to 11.04 percent.  Inflation Concern  Belarus should hold government salaries flat this year
because higher wages will spur inflation and drive the ruble
lower, Jarvis said. Allowing the markets to set the  exchange
rate  will also result in lower real wages, he said.  “But people are already experiencing lower wages and
uncertainty,” he said. “The foreign exchange market is not
working. Very few people are willing to sell foreign exchange,
and many more who want to buy it have to pay much more.”  The primary goal of the current IMF mission is to assess
the government’s economic policies, Jarvis said.  While Belarus has done a “good job” in controlling the
 budget deficit  and limiting credit, the government and central
bank “could do more,” he said.  “I think that Belarus does have capacity to pay its
debts,” Jarvis said. “The government and national bank assured
us they can do so, and there are good objective reasons to
believe they will do so.”  Russia-Led Funding  Russia and Belarus’s other former Soviet partners in the
 Eurasian Economic Community  agreed June 4 to provide the nation
with a $3 billion “anti-crisis” loan for 10 years. Belarus’s
government said June 9 it got an additional $1 billion bailout
from an unidentified donor, which will arrive “shortly.”  Belarus expects to receive the first $800 million of funds
from its former Soviet partners in the middle of this month, the
 Finance Ministry  said June 9. A second tranche of $440 million
may be distributed by the end of the year, Russian Finance
Minister Alexei Kudrin said June 4.  The loan came with conditions. Belarus agreed to sell $7.5
billion of state assets to help boost capital inflows, a move
formerly criticized by Lukashenko.  The Russian-led  Eurasian Economic Community ’s other members
are Belarus,  Kazakhstan , Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net . 