-- 
Berkowitz Leads Top Stock Pickers Hitting Bottom as Growth Slows

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-06-13T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/berkowitz-leads-top-stock-pickers-hitting-bottom-as-growth-slows.html
Bruce Berkowitz , Kenneth Heebner and
 Bill Miller , three of the best-known U.S. stock pickers, are
competing for last place this year after their bets on an
economic expansion backfired.  Funds run by Berkowitz of Fairholme Capital Management LLC,
Heebner of Capital Growth Management LP and Miller of  Legg Mason
Inc. (LM)  are the three worst performers among large diversified U.S.
mutual funds in 2011, according to data from Chicago-based
 Morningstar Inc.  The funds lost 11 percent to 12 percent through
June 9, compared with a gain of 3.4 percent for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  “People assume because certain managers have had good
streaks that they are always going to be a step ahead of the
market,” Russel Kinnel, director of mutual fund research at
Morningstar, said in a telephone interview. “It never works out
that way.”  The three managers are known for concentrating money in a
small number of industries, said Kinnel, a strategy that can
produce market-beating gains when the investments work out and
large losses when they fail. Berkowitz, Morningstar’s fund
manager of the decade, and Miller, known for beating the  S&P 500 
for 15 straight years through 2005, are wagering on a rebound in
financial stocks. Heebner, manager of the best-performing
diversified U.S. stock fund over a 10-year period until this
year, was betting on automakers.  The two industries are the worst performers this year in
the S&P 500 out of 24 groups. Bank stocks, as measured by the
 KBW Bank Index (BKX) , fell 10 percent on concerns that the housing
slump, litigation over mortgage bonds and foreclosures and new
fee-crimping rules will depress bank earnings.  Betting on Banks  Berkowitz’s $14.8 billion Fairholme Fund had 74 percent of
its equity holdings in financial stocks as of Feb 28,
Morningstar data show. The fund fell 12 percent through June 9,
ranking it last among 870 diversified U.S. stock funds with at
least $500 million in assets.  Berkowitz didn’t respond to a request for comment. In a
June 9 interview, Berkowitz said he was “more certain” than
ever that his investments in financials made sense.  “The trends are getting better,” he said in the interview
with Bloomberg Television’s Erik Schatzker. “The balance sheets
are getting better and the  cash flow  is there to take care of
the problems.”  Berkowitz said Brian Moynihan, chief executive officer of
Bank of America, was doing “a good job” and that the bank
“was making all the right moves.” Bank of America, based in
Charlotte, North Carolina, fell 19 percent this year, including
dividends.  Shifting Gears  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the New York-based
insurer that’s Berkowitz’s largest holding, lost 40 percent this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  fell 19 percent.  Heebner, manager of the $2.5 billion  CGM Focus Fund (CGMFX) , didn’t
fare better, losing 12 percent through June 9, second-worst
among large funds, according to Morningstar. His fund had 36
percent in auto stocks at the end of 2010, according to a
regulatory filing.  Heebner, 70, is known for making concentrated bets in
industries from homebuilding to commodities and for his
willingness to shift gears quickly. CGM Focus Fund, which gained
80 percent in 2007, returned 12 percent a year for the past 10
years, better than 99 percent of rivals.  “We anticipate a better domestic economic environment in
the year ahead,” Heebner wrote in a Jan. 3 letter in the fund’s
 annual report .  Signs of Slowdown  Those expectations were damped when the  U.S. economy  slowed
to a 1.8 percent annual rate of growth in the first quarter,
from 3.1 percent gain in the final three months of 2010.  More recent reports suggests the world’s largest economy is
slowing further. Manufacturing grew at its slowest pace in more
than a year in May, consumer spending rose less than forecast in
April, and the unemployment rate unexpectedly climbed to 9.1
percent in May.  Heebner declined to comment, Martha Maguire, a spokeswoman,
wrote in an e-mail.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , based in Dearborn, Michigan, and Heebner’s
largest holding at yearend, fell 11 percent in the first
quarter. His third-largest position,  Freeport-McMoRan Copper &
Gold Inc. (FCX) , fell 7.1 percent. Freeport, the world’s largest
publicly traded copper producer, is based in Phoenix.  Selling Ford  Heebner sold all his shares in both companies in the first
quarter, according to a regulatory filing. He dumped other
automotive stocks including Aurora, Ontario-based  Magna
International Inc. (MG)  and  BorgWarner Inc. (BWA) , which is based in Auburn
Hills, Michigan.  Heebner ran the best-performing diversified U.S. stock fund
over a 10-year period for 11 straight quarters before he was
unseated in the first quarter of 2011 by Thomas Soviero, manager
of the $4.2 billion  Fidelity Advisor Leveraged Company Stock
Fund. (FLSAX)   Investors make a mistake when they judge stock pickers only
on short-term performance, said Kinnel.  “Managers don’t go from geniuses to idiots overnight,” he
said. “Some of the investments they have made may well pay
off.”  ‘Short-Term Adversity’  Berkowitz, 53, was named Morningstar’s domestic stock
manager of the decade in January 2010. His fund, which opened in
December 1999, has beaten the S&P 500 Index every year but one,
2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Berkowitz hasn’t had a bad period of investment returns
since the beginning,” Steven Roge, a portfolio manager with
Bohemia, New York-based R.W. Roge & Co., said in a telephone
interview. “It will be interesting to see how he overcomes this
short-term adversity.”  Roge’s firm, which manages $225 million, holds shares in
Berkowitz’s fund.  Ronald Sugameli, manager of the $126 million  New Century
Alternative Strategies Portfolio (NCHPX) , a mutual fund that invests in
other mutual funds, cut his stake in Berkowitz’s fund over the
past few months.  Pulling Money  “Berkowitz may be right, but I thought it was prudent to
reduce our concentration in the distressed financial sector,”
Sugameli said in a telephone interview from Wellesley,
Massachusetts.  Investors pulled $2.3 billion from  Fairholme Fund (FAIRX)  in April
and May, according to Denver-based Lipper. The fund attracted
deposits of $11 billion in the four years ended Dec. 31.  Miller’s $1.5 billion Legg Mason Capital Management
Opportunity Fund lost 11 percent through June 9, third-worst
among large funds, Morningstar data show. The fund had 36
percent in financial shares at March 31.  In an  April letter  to shareholders, Miller wrote that the
first quarter was a good one, “for almost everyone except us.”
He said technology, health care and financial stocks were
attractive. Miller, 61, declined to comment for this story,
Maria Rosati, a spokeswoman for Legg Mason, wrote in an e-mail.  The fund’s largest holding as of March 31, Bermuda-based
insurer  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) , lost 19 percent this year. Other
financials in the portfolio that have suffered include Richmond,
Virginia-based  Genworth Financial Inc (GNW) , down 23 percent, and New
York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , down 20 percent.  Miller is best known for beating the S&P 500 for a record
15 straight years through 2005 with his larger Legg Mason
Capital Management Value Trust. The fund trailed the U.S.
benchmark for the next three years as Miller underestimated the
severity of the financial crisis and his bets on banks and real-
estate companies backfired.  The $3.6 billion Value Trust fell 0.5 percent through June
9, trailing 94 percent of rivals, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  