-- 
BHP Australia Coal Miners Strike for First Time in Decade

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-06-14T05:49:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/bhp-coal-miners-in-australia-striking-for-first-time-in-decade.html
More than 400 workers at  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  coking coal mines in Australia began strikes today
for the first time in a decade, disrupting production from the
world’s largest exporter of the steelmaking commodity.  About 3,500 workers in total will participate in the
rolling six-hour stoppages today, tomorrow and on June 18 at
different sites owned by  BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance  in
Queensland’s Bowen Basin, Stephen Smyth, president of the
 Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union ’s mining and
energy division in Queensland, said by telephone today.  The strikes may further boost coal prices already driven
higher by supply shortages following floods in the state. Unions
in Australia are stepping up demands for  job security  and wage
increases after rising commodity prices swelled profits at
mining companies including Melbourne-based BHP.  “The potential for disruptions could keep coking coal
prices well supported,” Natalie Robertson, resources analyst at
 Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said by phone. “The
market is already pretty tight anyway from the recent floods.”  BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, was little changed
at A$43.12 as of 2:47 p.m. in Sydney trading.  Coal Prices  Steelmaking coal prices rose 47 percent to a record $330 a
metric ton for three-month contracts starting April 1. Rio Tinto
Group, Xstrata Plc and BHP were among companies to notify
customers they would miss deliveries after the floods. Cash
prices traded at $303.33 on June 9, according to ANZ’s
Robertson.  The union rejected an offer by the BMA venture to hold paid
meetings on June 10 during working hours, BHP said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement.  “BMA is strongly of the view that taking industrial action
is premature given discussions are still progressing,” BHP
spokeswoman Kelly Quirke reiterated today, adding that any
disruption to output will be reflected in the company’s next
production report next month.  More talks with BMA are scheduled for June 20 and 21, he
said. The workers may extend work stoppages if no progress is
made during the meetings, he added.  “What they offered isn’t enough, it’s really just a lip
service to save some face,” Smyth said by phone today.  China ’s imports of coking coal are forecast to gain at an
average rate of 9 percent a year to reach 73 million metric tons
in 2016, according to Australian government forecasts.  India  may
triple coking coal imports within five years to meet surging
demand from steelmakers, ANZ said last month.  ‘Supply Pressure’  “There’s significant supply pressures that are going to be
exacerbated by the strikes,”  Gavin Wendt , a senior resource
analyst at Mine Life Ltd., said from Sydney. “It comes at a
crucial time because demand is still very robust. There’s strong
demand out of China, there’s strong demand from India.”  A strike may further cut output at BHP, which reported a 14
percent decline in production last quarter after torrential
rains from November to January inundated mines in Queensland,
Australia’s biggest exporter of the commodity. The nation’s
coking-coal exports plunged to 7.9 million metric tons in
February, the lowest monthly volume in two years.  Stoppages were held today at BMA’s Saraji and Norwich Park
mines. They will move to the Gregory, Crinum and Blackwater
mines on June 15 and at its Goonyella Riverside and Peak Downs
mines on June 18, Smyth said. Workers at the Broadmeadow mine
reached an agreement with BMA on May 17 so they won’t
participate in the industrial action, the union has said.  Price Gains  Almost all the coal mined at the BMA mines, with annual
capacity of 58 million tons, is shipped overseas for steel
production, BMA said on its website. BMA is equally owned by BHP
and Mitsubishi Development Pty. It directly employs more than
4,800 people, the website shows.  Workers also want a say in a planned roster system, Steve
Pierce, a vice president at the union’s mining and energy
division, said June 2. The existing workplace agreement expires
Aug. 26, BHP said last week. BMA has offered a 5 percent annual
pay rise in addition to a A$5,000 ($5,282) bonus to accelerate
negotiations, BHP has said. Workers may risk the bonus by
stopping work, Fiona Martin, a spokeswoman for BHP, said in a
separate e-mailed statement.  Exports of coking coal from Australia are forecast to rise
3 percent this year even after the floods, according to
government forecasts. They may total 163 million metric tons
this year compared with 159 million tons last year, the
Australian Bureau of Agricultural & Resource Economics and
Sciences said in a March report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  