-- 
Bloomberg Link to Convene Leading Money Managers in Boston

-- B y  
-- 
2011-06-13T12:22:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/bloomberg-link-to-convene-leading-money-managers-in-boston.html

Press Release  Features Top Investors, Including Keith Hartstein, CEO, John
Hancock Funds; Dan J. Rice III, Managing Director, BlackRock;
and A. Gary Shilling, President, A. Gary Shilling & Co., Inc.  NEW YORK -- In the wake of 2011’s market-shifting events such as
turbulence in the  Middle East  and the earthquake and tsunami in
 Japan , Bloomberg LINK will convene leading investors from mutual
funds,  hedge funds  and private equity at the Bloomberg Money
Managers Conference to discuss how to manage investments in an
unpredictable global economy.  The Conference, to be held on Tuesday, June 14th at the State
Room in  Boston , MA, will look at how investors can prepare for
unexpected events that impact markets, as well as at exit
strategies for navigating the unthinkable. Among other topics,
speakers will debate the equities market and whether the crash
of 2008 could repeat itself, contingency plans should  China ’s
rising economy fail, and investment strategies for energy and
infrastructure.  “Financial markets were significantly impacted by some of this
year’s ‘Black Swan’ events,” said Robert Bierman, head of
Bloomberg LINK. “Participants at this conference will discuss
the current events that affect their investments and learn
strategies for managing assets in the face of a volatile
economy.”  Key speakers include:  -Peter Andersen, Chief Investment Officer, Congress  Wealth
Management   -Dean Curnutt, Founder, CEO and President, Macro Risk Advisors  -Christopher J. Goolgasian, Senior Portfolio Manager, State
Street Global Advisors Multi Asset Class Solutions (MACS)  -John T. Hailer, President and CEO, U.S. & Asia, Natixis Global
Asset Management  -Keith F. Hartstein, President and CEO, John Hancock Funds, LLC  -Dean M. Maki, Managing Director and Chief U.S. Economist,
 Barclays Capital   -Dan J. Rice III, Managing Director, BlackRock  -A. Gary Shilling, President, A. Gary Shilling & Co., Inc.  -Jason Toussaint, Managing Director, U.S. and Investment, World
Gold Council  -Daniel P. Wiener, Chairman and CEO, Adviser Investments  The conference is being sponsored by Natixis Global Asset
Management and World Gold Council.  For more information on the program and speakers, please visit:
 http://www.bloomberglink.com/money .  Follow us on  Facebook ,  LinkedIn  and Twitter ( @BBGLINK ). The
hashtag for this event is #BBMoney.  For more information on Bloomberg, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/about .  About Bloomberg LINK
Bringing the power of Bloomberg to the executive conference
business, Bloomberg LINK produces invitation-only, in-person
gatherings that combine world-class editorial programming with
peer-to-peer networking amongst the who’s who in influential
communities. In this environment, participants engage in open
discussions that lead to learning from each other’s expertise
and experience. For more information, please visit
www.bloomberglink.com.  About Bloomberg
Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Jessica Turtletaub, +1 212-617-8476,  jturtletaub@bloomberg.net 
