-- 
BOE’s Weale Says Softer Data Don’t Alter View on Higher Rates

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-13T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/boe-s-weale-says-softer-data-don-t-alter-view-on-higher-rates.html
Bank of England policy maker  Martin Weale  said an interest-rate increase won’t significantly hamper
the recovery and recent “softer” data haven’t changed his view
that higher borrowing costs are needed to tame inflation.  “Although the data which have appeared over the last month
or so point to a softer outlook for economic growth and probably
a slightly more favorable prospect for inflation in the medium
term, they do not change my overall conclusion,” Weale said in
prepared remarks for a speech in  London  today. “The case for an
immediate quarter-point increase, and the extra flexibility that
it gives, remains.”  U.K. inflation probably stayed at 4.5 percent in May, the
fastest pace since 2008, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. While the central bank forecasts price gains may
accelerate to 5 percent in the coming months, policy makers held
their benchmark interest rate at a record low last week as they
prioritized aiding the economic recovery.  “If inflationary pressures subsequently prove more severe
than the” bank’s central forecast suggests, “then it will be a
help to have started to raise interest rates earlier,” Weale
said. “But if they prove less strong, then subsequent increases
can be slower than would otherwise be the case. If the economy
is extremely weak, interest rates can be reduced again.”  His comments come after the  Bank of England  said today that
while Britons’ outlook for inflation is “reasonably well-
anchored,” its failure to control price growth has undermined
consumers’ faith in policy makers. Weale said beginning rate
increases now “will make it much easier for the bank to
preserve its credibility.”  Inflation Mandate  The  Office for National Statistics  in London will publish
the consumer-price data for May at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow. Forecasts
among 30 economists in the Bloomberg survey range from 4.3
percent to 4.8 percent.  The Bank of England aims to keep inflation at 2 percent.
Governor  Mervyn King  has argued that the surge in price growth
is temporary and largely due to commodity-price increases and a
higher  sales tax .  An early interest rate rise will “reduce the speculation
that the bank has departed from its inflation mandate,” Weale
said. It may also “mean that, averaged over the next three
years, monetary policy does not need to be as tight as the
current yield curve suggests.”  Weale said there are “substantial cost pressures” in the
economy and a “substantial risk” that inflation will
accelerate to faster than 5 percent later this year. He also
noted that the impact of the pound’s decline “may not have
worked its way fully through the system.”  Investors have pushed back bets on a quarter-point rate
increase to May next year after factory and services growth
slowed last month and data showed  consumer spending  plunged in
the first quarter. A month ago, they were betting on November
2011, according to forward contracts on the sterling overnight
interbank average, or Sonia, compiled by Tullett Prebon Plc.  “While there is as yet no substantial evidence that
expectations of above-target inflation are being built in to
people’s behavior, there is a strong case for the Monetary
Policy Committee to pre-empt this risk rather than wait for it
to materialize,” Weale said. There are “significant risks” to
delaying a rate increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  