-- 
BofA ‘Significantly Hindered’ Foreclosure Review, U.S. Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-06-14T13:19:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/bofa-significantly-hindered-foreclosure-review-of-its-loans-u-s-says.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest
U.S. lender, “significantly hindered” a federal review of its
foreclosures on loans insured by the  Federal Housing
Administration , the U.S. said.  The bank was slow in providing data and offered incomplete
information, according to the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development inspector general’s office, which conducted
the review.  “Our review was significantly hindered by Bank of
America’s reluctance to allow us to interview employees or
provide data and information in a timely manner,” William
Nixon, an assistant regional inspector general for the agency,
said in a sworn declaration.  The filing, dated June 1 and obtained yesterday by
Bloomberg News, was submitted as an exhibit in a lawsuit by the
state of Arizona against the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
bank. Arizona, which is seeking to interview former Bank of
America employees, accused the bank of misleading homeowners who
were seeking mortgage modifications.  Federal agencies and attorneys general from all 50 states
are investigating the way banks service mortgage loans and
conduct foreclosures. The group is in settlement talks with the
five largest mortgage servicers, including Bank of America,
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  New York Probe  Bank of America cooperated with the U.S. inquiry, said  Dan Frahm , a company spokesman, adding “any suggestion otherwise is
both inaccurate and inconsistent with how we work with all
regulators.”  In addition to the 50-state probe, New York Attorney
General  Eric Schneiderman  has opened a new inquiry tied to the
packaging and sale of loans to investors, according to a person
familiar with the matter. Bank of America is included in that
probe along with other banks and bond insurers such as MBIA Inc.  Schneiderman’s office has sought information from
additional financial institutions, two people familiar with the
matter said. He requested documents from  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  and
Bank of New York Mellon Corp., which act as trustees for
mortgage-bond trusts, said one of the people.  Between five and 10 trustees are being asked to provide
information, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the matter isn’t public.  Two States  New York and  Delaware  agreed to share information gathered
from the trustees, said the person. The two states are
interested in probing the way mortgages were pooled and
securitized and have focused on the trustee banks because of
their role in the process, said a second person, who also
declined to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  One issue is whether loan documents were properly
transferred to the trusts, the person said. The trusts issued
securities to investors backed by the pools of  mortgage loans . A
second issue is the due diligence performed on the quality of
the loans going into the trusts and the representations made to
investors, the person said.  James Freedland, a spokesman for Schneiderman, declined to
comment regarding the bank trustees.  John Gallagher , a spokesman
for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, and Kevin Heine, a spokesman
for Bank of New York, declined to comment.  The HUD inspector general’s office conducted reviews of the
five largest mortgage servicers “as they relate to FHA loans
that have been foreclosed upon” and for which the servicers
claimed insurance benefits, according to Nixon’s declaration.
The office sought to determine whether Bank of America complied
with applicable procedures when conducting foreclosures on FHA-
insured loans.  Justice Department   The U.S. Justice Department is suing Deutsche Bank,
claiming it lied while arranging FHA insurance on mortgage loans
and profited from the sale of the insured government mortgages.
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan  said in May it wouldn’t
be a “fantastical stretch” for prosecutors to scrutinize other
lenders as well.  Deutsche Bank has called the claims in the lawsuit
“unreasonable and unfair.”  The HUD inspector general’s report on Bank of America,
which hasn’t been made public, was prepared “in light of
possible future litigation,” according to Nixon’s declaration.
Nixon, who works in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , couldn’t be reached for
comment.  FHA Claims  Bank of America submitted 40,219 FHA claims totaling $5.7
billion from Oct. 1, 2008, through Sept. 30, 2010, according to
the declaration. About 86 percent of its claims were for loans
previously serviced by Countrywide Financial Corp., which Bank
of America acquired in 2008.  Bank of America may face a further $27 billion of housing-
related losses between now and 2013 amid increasing regulation
as the economic recovery slows, analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein
said in a note yesterday. The losses would be in addition to the
$46 billion the lender has booked so far, analysts led by John E. McDonald wrote.  As long as Bank of America’s housing-related losses don’t
exceed $55 billion, twice Bernstein’s estimate, it should manage
to boost  Tier 1 capital  to 8.5 percent by 2013 and avoid raising
more, the analysts said. About 44 percent of Bank of America’s
total lending is linked to housing, compared with 34 percent at
its competitors, Bernstein’s McDonald said.  Private Investors  The company will probably settle demands from private
investors that it repurchase soured mortgages by paying about $7
billion this year, Mike Mayo, an analyst at Credit Agricole
Securities USA in  New York , wrote yesterday in a research note.  As part of the HUD inspector general’s review, Bank of
America provided access to more than 55,000 pages of material
and voluntarily coordinated interviews and assisted with
arranging depositions with two dozen employees, Frahm, the bank
spokesman, said in an e-mail yesterday.  According to Nixon’s declaration, when interviews with Bank
of America employees were permitted, the presence or involvement
of the bank’s attorneys “limited the effectiveness” of the
interviews. Attorneys also refused to allow employees to answer
questions “on a number of occasions.”  The bank’s delay in providing “readily available
information” also hurt the review of the bank’s processes and
controls, Nixon said. The information provided in response to
two subpoenas wasn’t complete, he said.  “These omissions impaired our review because they
prevented us from measuring the impact of Bank of America’s
foreclosure practices,” Nixon said.  Bank of America rose 17 cents to $10.97 yesterday in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The case is  Arizona  v. Countrywide Financial Corp., CV2010-
033580, Arizona Superior Court, Maricopa County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 