-- 
BofA May Post Added $27 Billion in Housing Losses, Sanford Bernstein Says

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-06-13T20:31:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/bofa-may-post-27-billion-more-housing-losses-bernstein-says.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest
U.S. lender, may face a further $27 billion of housing-related
losses between now and 2013 amid increasing regulation as the
economic recovery slows, analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein said.  The losses would be in addition to the $46 billion the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender has booked so far,
analysts led by John E. McDonald wrote in a note today.  “The process of addressing legacy mortgage issues will be
long and arduous,” the analysts said. “Recent declines in  home
prices  and an uptick in employment trends create an upward bias
to our loss estimates” for the lender. Bernstein has an
“outperform” recommendation on the stock.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
51, said on June 1 he expects future U.S. home-price declines
will be “incremental,” a day after reports of the biggest
quarterly drop in values in two years. Home prices in 20 U.S.
cities fell 5.1 percent in the first quarter, the largest
decline since the first quarter of 2009, according to the
S&P/Case-Shiller index.  The lender rose 17 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $10.97 at 4:15
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Bank of
America shares have declined 30 percent in the past year, the
worst performance in the 24-company KBW Bank Index.  As long as Bank of America’s housing related losses don’t
exceed $55 billion, twice Bernstein’s estimate, it should manage
to boost  Tier 1 capital  to 8.5 percent by 2013 and avoid raising
more, the analysts said. About 44 percent of Bank of America’s
total lending is linked to housing, compared with 34 percent at
its competitors, Bernstein’s McDonald said.  Soured Mortgages  The company will probably settle demands from private
investors that it repurchase soured mortgages by paying about $7
billion this year, Mike Mayo, an analyst at Credit Agricole
Securities USA in New York, wrote today in a research note.  The bank may need to raise capital in a share sale if
housing losses wipe out earnings,  Paul Miller , a bank analyst at
FBR Capital Markets, said today in an Bloomberg Television
interview with Betty Liu on “In the Loop.” Ultimately, the
company cobbled together by Moynihan’s predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis , may be dismantled, Miller said.  “Bank of America is too big to manage at this point,”
Miller said. “It’s not going to happen tomorrow, it’s not going
to happen next year, but at some point down the road I think
Bank of America will be broken up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net 
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  