-- 
Buckeyes Interim Coach Fickell Focuses on Future After Tressel, Pryor Exit

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/buckeyes-interim-coach-fickell-focuses-on-future-after-tressel-pryor-exit.html
Ohio State University ’s football
program will recover from the six-month-old memorabilia scandal
that cost the Buckeyes their head coach and star quarterback,
interim coach Luke Fickell said.  “We still have all the faith and confidence in our
coaching staff, our players,” Fickell said yesterday in his
first public comments since his promotion. “We’ve got a plan
for the future and that’s what we’ve tried to express to them,
to know that it’s about something that’s so much greater than
one situation, one player or one coach.”  Fickell was promoted May 30 when Jim Tressel resigned after
failing to tell officials what he knew about players selling
merchandise to a tattoo parlor owner in violation of National
Collegiate Athletic Association rules. A week later, starting
quarterback Terrelle Pryor, one of the players tied to that and
other alleged infractions, decided to skip his senior season.  Fickell will keep his position through the 2011-12 season
before the school begins a search for a full-time successor to
Tressel. Fickell will make $775,000 plus possible bonuses,  Ohio 
State Athletic Director Gene Smith said at yesterday’s televised
news conference.  The 37-year-old Fickell is Ohio State’s 23rd head football
coach and fourth with an undergraduate degree from the school in
Columbus, Ohio.  A Columbus native, he was a nose guard for the Buckeyes
from 1993-96, playing a school-record 50 straight games, and an
Ohio State assistant for the past decade.  ‘I Thank Him’  Fickell said he spoke with Tressel the night of the
coaching change and received Tressel’s support.  “For the opportunities he’s given me, for the friendship
and for making me a better coach, husband and father, I thank
him,” Fickell said.  Tressel previously had been fined $250,000 and suspended
for the first five games of the 2011 season before agreeing to
resign.  One of the players who also received a five-game ban was
Pryor, who on June 8 said he would leave the school. Pryor
yesterday signed with agent Drew Rosenhaus, officially ending
his collegiate career.  The NCAA and Ohio State are investigating whether Pryor
received cars and other benefits that violated rules, according
to the Columbus Dispatch.  Fickell said he didn’t have any knowledge about the
infractions or allegations prior to their public disclosure.  “I was not informed of any information until it became
public knowledge,” he said.  Bowl Wins  Pryor went 31-4 as a starter, leading Ohio State to three
Big Ten conference titles and wins in the Sugar Bowl and  Rose
Bowl .  Odds on the Buckeyes winning the national championship next
season are 50-1 after opening at 18-1 shortly after last season,
according to Las Vegas Sports Consultants, which advises Nevada
sports books on gambling lines.  “We didn’t move it so much after Tressel left, knowing the
majority of their team was still intact,” Andrew Patterson, an
oddsmaker for Las Vegas Sports Consultants, said in a telephone
interview. “I know they have talent behind Pryor, but it’s not
senior leadership that they’re getting and I wonder how it’s
going to affect the team dynamic.”  Those passers include senior Joe Bauserman, sophomore Ken
Guiton and freshmen Taylor Graham and Braxton Miller.  “We’ve got four great guys who are going to be competitive,
to put them out there to give them their opportunities for the
reasons for which they came to Ohio State,” Fickell said.  Tressel won a national championship during the 2002 season
on his way to a 106-22 record in 11 years at Ohio State.  “The 2011 Buckeyes will not be about comparing and
contrasting what we’ve done before, but what we believe we will
need to do to move forward,” Fickell said. “It will be about
respect, toughness and being men of action. Those will be our
focuses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 