-- 
Cable Operators Chip at Corporate Market as Video Growth Slows

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/cable-operators-chip-at-20-billion-business-market-as-video-growth-slows.html
U.S. cable companies in search of
growth are having more luck at the office than at home.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , Cox Communications
Inc., Charter Communications and  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  --the
five largest U.S. operators -- are struggling to draw new cable
television customers. While cable-TV still accounts for most of
the industry’s sales, Comcast and Time Warner Cable’s video
revenue grew less than 2.2 percent last year as competition
increased and demand waned.  To kickstart growth, cable companies are going corporate.
They’re offering businesses fast and secure Internet service,
wireless connections in offices and cheaper phone plans. Comcast
and Time Warner Cable, the country’s two largest cable operators,
each estimate the potential revenue from small- and medium-sized
businesses in their respective markets is more than $20 billion.  “Providing bundled voice and data services for businesses
is a tremendous growth opportunity,” said Joe Varello,
Cablevision’s vice president of  product management  for voice and
small business products, said in an interview.  Cable operators will be touting the growth potential at the
 National Cable & Telecommunications Association ’s annual three-
day show that begins tomorrow in  Chicago .  Comcast, Cox and others will demonstrate products to help
businesses take advantage of so-called cloud computing, allowing
customers to store data and programs on offsite computers and
access them over the Internet. Comcast’s metro Ethernet service
provides high-speed data connections over fiber-optic lines to
let businesses use cloud technology more easily.  Cheaper Internet Service  Comcast is offering metro Ethernet across 20 national
markets. The result, said Bill Stemper, Comcast’s president of
business services, is faster and cheaper Internet service than
the traditional digital subscriber lines and T1 lines that
businesses now buy, typically from telecommunications companies.  Small and mid-sized businesses represent $22 billion to $27
billion in possible revenue for the company, he said. Sales at
Comcast’s business services unit jumped 50 percent in the first
quarter to $394 million, largely driven by charging companies
for high-speed data.  Time Warner Cable, based in  New York , said first-quarter
business-to-business revenue rose 23 percent to $313 million.
This quarter, the cable operator will gain revenue from NaviSite
Inc., which specializes in cloud-computing, after completing its
acquisition of the Web hosting company in April.  NaviSite will allow Time Warner Cable to offer cloud and
managed services that support e-mail, data security and storage
capability to clients when it installs broadband. Those services
will be available to small and medium sized businesses by the
first quarter of 2012, said Craig Collins, Time Warner Cable’s
senior vice president of sales and marketing.  Costly, Cumbersome  “We want enterprise customers to hand over a host of
services to us,” Collins said in an interview. “Right now,
we’re very strong at setting up businesses with connectivity,
but where we’re headed is into managed services and the hosting
market.”  Cable operators have to battle with telecommunications
companies for the business.  AT&T Inc. (T) , Verizon Communications
Inc. and other players often already have relationships with
corporations to provide them with Internet connections,
including through DSL and T1 lines. The process of getting
commercial customers to replace such services with cable can be
costly and cumbersome, said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  “Progress in capitalizing on small and medium-sized
businesses has at times seemed painfully slow,” Moffett said.  Challenge of Scale  AT&T and Verizon also have an advantage because of the size
of their networks, allowing them to serve national businesses,
while many cable operators are largely regional. This makes it
difficult for cable companies to compete for “big bucks”
contracts with the largest companies, said Moffett.  Closely held Cox was the first major cable company to enter
the business market more than a decade ago. The Atlanta-based
company topped $1 billion in commercial services revenue in 2010,
representing about 11 percent of total sales, said Phil Meeks,
vice president of Cox Business.  Cox, the third largest U.S. cable company, generated about
$120 million in sales last year from selling network services to
telecommunications companies, Meeks said. As mobile phone usage
increases, wireless providers are challenged with strained
coverage and capacity. Cox and other companies have begun
selling fiber pipes between wireless towers that allow data and
calls to rapidly connect to a terrestrial network, known as
backhaul. Cox collects revenue from “all the major wireless
providers,” said Todd Smith, a spokesman.  Health-Care Service  Cox also plans to offer health-care services centering on
newly digitized medical records, Meeks said. It will internally
develop technology and may acquire companies to help build
applications on a secured network where doctors, clinics and
hospitals can share documents.  Cable companies can utilize their networks to offer faster
Internet and lower costs, especially as local carriers shy away
from servicing small businesses due to margin pressures, said
 Brian Washburn , an analyst at Current Analysis in Sterling,
Virginia. Some firms have stopped adopting cable because of
reliability issues with the way networks are built, said
Washburn, particularly in industries that can’t afford a
breakdown in service.  ‘Quick Fix’  “You compare the T1 against these broadband services, and
the T1 will charge you hundreds more a month, but they’ll say
it’ll be up 99 percent of the time, and if there is a problem,
they’ll expedite a quick fix,” said Washburn. “Cable isn’t
really there yet with a lot of that stuff.”  Time Warner Cable Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt, who
will be appearing at the NCTA’s show, has expressed concerns
about losing potential customers to technology and
telecommunications companies.  “In a way I’m happy, but I wonder if we couldn’t even do
more,” Britt said about his business services operation at a
conference earlier this month. “I try to say to my guys, ‘Can’t
you grow even faster?’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  