-- 
California’s Republicans Extend Talks With Brown on Taxes as Budget Looms

-- B y   E d i t o r :   S t a c i e   S e r v e t a h
-- 
2011-06-13T13:22:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/california-s-budget-talks-continue-as-impasse-nears-deadline.html
California  Republican lawmakers
negotiated through the weekend with Governor  Jerry Brown  and
Democrats over whether to extend more than $9 billion of
expiring tax increases as a deadline to pass a budget looms.  The talks followed the June 10 defeat in the Senate of a
proposal by Democrats to push the expiration date back a year.
The bridge financing is needed, Brown has said, to preserve
revenue pending the outcome of a yet-to-be-determined statewide
referendum on whether to keep the taxes for five years.
Republicans say the extensions would harm California’s economy.  Brown, 73, took office in January with a pledge to fix the
fiscal malfunctions that left California with an A-  credit
rating  from  Standard & Poor’s , its lowest for any state. He
began the year facing a $26 billion deficit through June 2012.
Spending cuts passed in March and higher-than-projected revenue
have narrowed the gap to $10 billion. Still, the state faces a
cash shortage next month if a workable budget isn’t passed by
the July 1 start of fiscal 2012.  “We have a plan and it’s a very good plan, it will put
California’s finances on a firm footing for many, many years to
come,” Brown said in a  video  posted last night on YouTube.
“But what we don’t have are the four Republican votes necessary
to put it to the vote of the people of California.”  Jockey  Brown said the budget will be considered by lawmakers on
June 15 “one way or another.” He scheduled a 10 a.m. press
conference for today.  The key to getting a spending plan through the Legislature,
where Democrats lack the two-thirds majority needed to raise
taxes, may hinge on finding an agreement that enough Republicans
will support. Republicans have been using their position to
jockey for concessions on spending levels, cuts to government
pensions and business and environmental regulations.  The governor’s plan relies on retaining a 1 percentage-
point boost in the retail-sales levy, to 8.25 percent, and a 0.5
percentage-point increase in vehicle-registration fees to 1.15
percent of value. Brown also seeks to extend a reduction of the
annual  child tax credit  to $99 from $309. All were put in place
in 2009 and are set to expire by July 1.  June Ballot  Brown originally wanted a vote this month, which would have
negated the need for the bridge financing. Negotiations with
Republicans over a June ballot faltered in March. Democrats said
they would be willing to compromise on the length of bridge
financing.  “If you want to look at it as the glass half full, we have
completed 90 percent of the budget work over here in the
Senate,” said Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, a
Sacramento Democrat. “But it’s the remaining 10 percent that is
the biggest issue. It’s the revenue piece.”  “Discussions are continuing,” Steinberg said.  Republicans, looking at public polls showing that voters
would reject the extensions, want lawmakers to pass a balanced
budget without prolonging the revenue measures and let voters
decide later whether to reinstate the tax increases.  Local Taxes  In response to the June 10 defeat, Senate Democrats passed
a bill that would let local governments ask voters to increase
taxes on goods and services that currently are taxed only by the
state. Those items include income, retail sales, vehicle
registrations, cigarettes and alcohol.  California Controller John Chiang, a Democrat, has warned
Brown and lawmakers that California may run out of money if
there’s no  budget  in place by July 1, forcing the state to issue
IOUs, as it did in 2009. That’s because the state likely won’t
be able to go to  Wall Street  for short-term borrowing until it
has a plan that accounts for how the money will be repaid.  In November, voters narrowed the legislative margin needed
to pass a budget to a simple majority from two-thirds. The same
measure also strips the lawmakers of salary and per-diem pay
starting June 16 for every day they’re late with the spending
plan.  Weighing on negotiations is a U.S. Supreme Court ruling
last month requiring the state to ease prison overcrowding.
Brown says his plan is the best way to avoid putting thousands
of inmates on the street. 