-- 
Cameron Said to Tell Lawmakers Bank Lending Can’t Be Forced

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-06-14T20:35:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/cameron-says-banks-can-t-be-forced-to-lend.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
there’s a limit to what the government can do to force British
banks to lend more to business, two of his lawmakers said,
casting doubt on threats to raise tax or limit bonuses.  Lenders can’t be subjected to excessive pressures in a
market economy, Cameron told a meeting of his Conservative
Party’s members of Parliament in London yesterday, according to
the lawmakers who were in the meeting. They declined to be
identified because the discussions were private.  The premier’s comments undermine threats by Business
Secretary  Vince Cable , a member of Cameron’s Liberal Democrat
coalition partners, to apply a “more forceful”  tax policy 
against banks if they fail to meet targets for loans to small
businesses.  In evidence to a parliamentary panel in  London  last week,
Cable said small and medium-sized enterprises were being
discouraged from asking for money. He said he’d written to bank
chairmen demanding they set out how their bonus policies
encouraged lending to such businesses and held out the threat of
new taxes or even restructuring if institutions didn’t deliver.  Cable said that if the banks don’t meet their targets under
a February agreement, known as Project Merlin, “we’re absolved
from any commitment on our part in terms of restraint on
taxation.”  Asked today about Cameron’s reported comments, Cable said,
“I’m not sure he would have said that.”  Expected to Observe  “We expect the banks to observe an agreement they’ve
entered into with us for lending to small-scale business,”
Cable said in an interview with Bloomberg News in Ottawa. “All
three of us have said that if the banks don’t honor that
agreement, we will use reserve powers, including taxation, and
that remains the position,” he said, referring to himself,
Cameron, and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne .  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and Santander U.K. Plc missed
their first set of quarterly lending targets by about 12 percent
last month. They agreed in February to make available 76 billion
pounds ($124 billion) this year and to “foster more demand”
for loans to aid economic recovery.  Cameron said on May 23 he was confident the banks would
meet their annual Project Merlin lending targets. “It seems the
banks want to make a success of this,” he said. “I’m sure they
will do more and do better to get money out of the banks to get
our economy growing.”  ‘Off the Hook’  “The signs are that the Project Merlin plan is not
working,”  Ed Balls , the opposition Labour Party’s Treasury
spokesman, said the same day. “While the banks are
understandably blaming this year’s economic slowdown for a lack
of demand for new lending, businesses I talk to are fearful that
the Tory-led government is letting the banks off the hook.”  Cable said the government remains resolved to enforce the
Merlin Plan. “We reached an agreement with them on certain
volumes that they were going to try to meet,” he said. “Some
of the banks are doing it, some of them are less successful. We
will monitor that agreement carefully, and insist that it is
applied.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 