-- 
Cameron Tries to Win Back U.K. Voters on NHS

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-06-13T23:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/cameron-tries-to-win-back-u-k-voters.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  will
today announce changes to his government’s plans to overhaul the
state-funded U.K. National Health Service in an attempt to win
back hostile voters.  The premier said in April he was going to “pause” the
plans, which would have given family doctors more power over how
money is spent in the NHS, because they had run into trouble
with doctors’ and nurses’ groups.  Cameron has made winning voters’ trust on the  NHS , which
provides free health care to all U.K. residents, one of his top
priorities. A ComRes Ltd. poll for ITV News last night showed
that the revamp was damaging that endeavor, with 56 percent of
respondents saying they didn’t trust the prime minister to keep
promises he’s made over the service and 49 percent saying he
should scrap the plans.  “The NHS is like a religion in this country,” Steve
Field, a doctor who has just completed a review of the plans for
Cameron, told Sky News television yesterday. “A lot of people
have told us in this listening episode of eight weeks that they
don’t understand why the NHS has to change. There is a lesson
for the government about getting the message across that the
health service can’t stand still.”  Field’s report recommended revising plans for the way an
NHS watchdog should work, changing it from an “economic
regulator,” like those that monitor  utility companies , and
pushing for cooperation between arms of the NHS as well as
competition between providers, which Cameron’s  Conservatives  see
as vital to delivering better care for less money.  Cameron’s Son  When he became leader of the  Conservative Party  in 2005,
Cameron identified the NHS as an area where voters distrusted
the Tories. He responded by pointing out how much he personally
relied on the service to treat his severely ill son, Ivan, and
by guaranteeing its funding would increase, a pledge he has
stuck to even as most of the rest of government has seen its
budget cut. He also pledged there would be no more “top-down”
reorganizations of the service.  After the Conservatives won power last year, Health
Secretary Andrew Lansley announced the Health and Social Care
Bill. This proposal, which applies only to  England , allows for
the transfer of about 60 percent of the NHS budget from local
boards to groups run by community doctors and for the extension
of a competitive market in health-care provision.  ComRes interviewed 2,005 adults online between June 10 and
12 for the ITV News poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 