-- 
Cannibals, Snakes Hunt Doctor After Super Drug in Patchett Tale

-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 
2011-06-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/cannibals-snakes-hunt-doctor-after-super-drug-in-patchett-tale.html
In “ State of Wonder ,”  Ann Patchett 
returns to the tropical setting of her best-known novel, “Bel
Canto,” and delivers another entrancing, ambitious tale.  The book opens in the most prosaic of locations: the
headquarters of the Vogel pharmaceutical company in snow-covered
 Minnesota . Marina Singh, an obstetrician turned drug researcher,
is sitting in her lab when a tissue-thin blue Aerogram -- “Who
even knew they still made such things?” -- brings terrible
news:  Marina’s lab mate, Anders Eckman, is dead, buried two weeks
ago in the Amazon jungle.  The Aerogram is delivered by Jim Fox, Vogel’s Chief
Executive, whom Marina thinks of as Mr. Fox despite the fact
that she’s secretly sleeping with him. It was Mr. Fox who sent
Anders to Brazil, on a quest for information about an important
research project that seems to be going off the rails.  Imagine an Amazonian tribe whose women keep bearing
children into their 70s, never hitting menopause. Vogel will
earn billions if the company can figure out how these women have
extended their fertility and produce a drug to help women around
the world do the same.  Mr. Fox wants to learn what happened to Anders, but he also
(and especially) wants to know what’s going on with the project.
He sends an uneasy Marina to find answers.  Descent Into Hell  Patchett’s lush prose is perfectly suited to describing
Marina’s descent into this hot, sticky hell:  “Every insect in the Amazon lifted its head from the leaf
it was masticating and turned a slender antenna in her
direction. She was a snack plate, a buffet line, a woman dressed
for springtime in the North.”  If this is starting to sound familiar, perhaps you’ve read
Joseph Conrad’s “ Heart of Darkness .” But in Patchett’s fresh
version, it’s a woman penetrating the unknown, and it’s a woman
she’s seeking. The research is being led by Dr. Annick Swenson,
a pivotal figure from Marina’s past: She was the medical-school
professor who intimidated Marina into making a career-changing
mistake.  One of the wonderful things about Patchett’s novels is that
she finds the absolute individuality -- and humanity -- in all
her characters. She doesn’t seem to know how to create a
villain, though the imperious Dr. Swenson keeps threatening to
become one. (She makes Marina feel “like  Oliver Twist  holding
up his empty bowl.”)  Screaming Nightmares  This keeps Patchett’s books from turning into thrillers no
matter how much high-stakes plot she packs into them. Bugs bite,
luggage is lost and Marina has screaming nightmares. Once she
arrives at Dr. Swenson’s mysterious jungle outpost, there are
15-foot snakes, poison arrows and cannibals to avoid.  Through it all you read on, fearing that something terrible
will happen but trusting that Patchett’s deep intelligence and
generous nature will give it all meaning in the end.  There are some striking images here. When Marina reads that
Aerogram, “there was inside of her a very modest physical
collapse, not a faint but a sort of folding, as if she were an
extension ruler and her ankles and knees and hips were all being
brought together at closer angles.” When she arrives at the
airport in  Brazil , she sees “enormous suitcases piled on top of
one another like sandbags ready to stem a rising tide.”  But unlike many writers, Patchett doesn’t call attention to
herself with her fluid prose. Her books are a rare combination
of literary and popular, full of subtle investigations of big
ideas yet smoothly written and packed with intrigue and
suspense. This is the book I’ll be recommending to all my
friends this summer.  “State of Wonder” is published by Harper in the U.S. and
Bloomsbury in the U.K. (353 pages, $26.99, 12.99 pounds). To buy
this book in  North America , click  here .  (Laurie Muchnick writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Laurie Muchnick in  New York  at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 