-- 
Mexico’s Carstens Sees Rival Lagarde of France Winning IMF Job

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-06-13T23:02:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/carstens-sees-lagarde-winning-imf-job.html
Mexican central bank chief Agustin Carstens said chances are “quite high” that French Finance
Minister  Christine Lagarde  will win the International Monetary
Fund’s top job, saying he put his name forward in an effort to
help emerging markets obtain the post in the future.  “I’m not fooling myself,” Carstens told reporters today
in  Washington  after meeting with U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner. “It’s like starting a soccer game with a 5-0
score,” given Lagarde’s early front-runner status.  The IMF’s board was scheduled to meet today to consider the
candidacies, which also include a last-minute bid by Bank of
Israel Governor Stanley Fischer. The IMF is aiming to pick a new
managing director by June 30 to succeed  Dominique Strauss-Kahn ,
who resigned last month after being charged in  New York  with
attempted rape. Strauss-Kahn has pleaded not guilty.  Carstens said he entered the competition to be coherent
with developing economies’ claim that the selection of the IMF
head should be open and based on merit. The job has
traditionally gone to a European as part of an agreement in
place for the last 65 years that also has the U.S. pick the head
of the World Bank.  “We emerging markets might take more than one round to get
to the final position, but if we don’t start at some point, we
will never get there,” he said. “Our intention is to raise the
bar, also to invite emerging markets to be better coordinated in
this process.’  Support for Carstens  Carstens says he is backed by 12 Latin American nations,
while he hasn’t won an endorsement from the region’s biggest
economy --  Brazil .  Geithner is ‘‘pleased that there is such a strong field of
candidates” vying for the top job of the IMF, the Treasury
Department said in an e-mailed statement today. Geithner
described Carstens as an “exceptionally capable candidate”
after the two men talked, according to the Treasury Department,
calling their meeting a “good discussion.”  The U.S., the IMF’s single biggest shareholder with almost
17 percent of the votes, hasn’t announced support for a
candidate.  Fischer, 67, is betting that his experience will prompt IMF
members to waive an age requirement that would exclude him from
the managing director position, a person familiar with the
situation said.  Fischer, who holds U.S. and Israeli citizenship, is getting
a late start in a race that has seen Lagarde solidly backed by
the European Union. Last week she got an endorsement from
 Morocco , and the French news agency  Agence France-Presse  said
Indonesian Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  also added his
support.  ‘Wild Card’  Fischer’s entry “is a wild card; could change
everything,”  Simon Johnson , a former chief economist at the
IMF, said in an e-mail. “He must have some big backers to throw
his hat into the ring at this stage.”  One backer is Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of
 Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., which runs the world’s largest bond fund.  “Based on professional qualifications and cultural fit,
Stanley Fischer is the perfect candidate for managing director
of the IMF,” El-Erian wrote in  an editorial  posted on the
Financial Times’ website.  Israel ’s central bank said in a statement that the IMF will
have to decide whether to amend its bylaws, which stipulate that
its managing director be less than 65 years at the time of
selection, or reject his candidacy. Age is not a barrier for
Carstens, 53, or Lagarde, 55.  Mexico ,  Russia   Fischer helped the IMF end crises in Mexico, Russia and
 Southeast Asia .  The Washington-based  Center for Global Development , an aid
research group, said yesterday that it has been running a  survey 
about potential IMF candidates. As of June 9, about 800
respondents to the survey rated Fischer as the best candidate in
five out of six categories measuring how effective someone would
be at running the IMF.  “Our respondents are a very-well-informed group of people,
said Nancy Birdsall, president of the center, ‘‘so it implicitly
indicates an interest in candidates other than Lagarde and
Carstens.’’  Fischer was born in an area of northern Rhodesia that is
now part of Zambia, He holds a doctorate in economics from the
 Massachusetts  Institute of Technology in Cambridge,
Massachusetts.  Carstens spent most of his early career at Banco de Mexico
before becoming a deputy managing director of the IMF and then
his country’s finance minister.  For the U.S., favoring a non-European could mean
relinquishing control of the  World Bank  -- an outcome that
members of Congress who decide on funding for development banks
have said they oppose.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Paris at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  