-- 
Cheap Coats, Blockaded Harbors and the Value of Free Trade: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/cheap-coats-blockaded-harbors-and-value-of-free-trade-view.html
It’s a bad moment for free trade.
Republicans in the Senate are blocking three free-trade treaties
-- with  Colombia ,  South Korea  and  Panama  -- until they are
stripped of extra assistance (such as retraining) for workers
whose jobs are shipped abroad. The Obama administration isn’t
all that excited about these treaties or free trade in general,
anyway.  The AFL-CIO is even less enthusiastic and is threatening to
punish pro-free-trade politicians in the next election cycle.
But a bad moment for free trade is a good moment, once again, to
make the case.  Free-trade zealots, a group to which we belong, can seem
more like a religious cult than mere adherents of an economic
theory. But this is misleading. It is the scientifically
provable correctness of free-trade theory, combined with the
frustrating difficulty of making people believe it, that drives
true believers to despair. It may be the most scientific axiom
in all of social science: Societies prosper when they allow
citizens the freedom to buy from foreigners on the same terms as
they trade among themselves. The few exceptions to this rule are
misused by free-trade opponents more often than they are invoked
correctly.  Furthermore, the benefits of free trade do not require
reciprocity. Avoiding tariffs and quotas is good for us whether
 China ,  Japan  or  Europe  follow suit. Protectionism can do great
harm to your trading partners, if that’s your goal, but it
cannot do any good for you.  Blockading Your Harbor  The famous citation on all this is from the 19th century
American self-trained economist  Henry George , who noted that
blockading another nation’s harbor is considered an act of war,
and protectionism is like blocking your own harbor. “What
protection teaches us is to do to ourselves in time of peace
what enemies seek to do to us in time of war,” he said.  All this is Economics 101. Politics is another story. Free
trade creates tumult (“creative destruction,” as economist
 Joseph Schumpeter  famously put it). Like its opposite,
protectionism, free trade generates winners and losers. Two
perennial problems make the free-trade gospel a hard sell.  First, free trade requires explanation. It’s complicated.
When plants are closing and people are losing not just jobs but
also entire careers, it’s not intuitively obvious why keeping
foreign competition out of our markets is such a bad idea,
although it is. Second, the costs of free trade are visible and
concentrated, while its benefits are diffuse and hard to
identify. When a company moves production overseas, the
Americans who lose their jobs as a result are aware of it, and
aware of the cause. The beneficiaries, by contrast, probably
don’t even realize that the coat they bought today at Wal-Mart
is a couple bucks cheaper thanks to the move.  Trade Beneficiaries  The salespeople who find work because retailers’ bargains
draw more customers, the extra people who are employed because
coat buyers have more money to spend, and so on, are all
beneficiaries of free trade -- but don’t know it. What they can
know is that it is mathematically certain that for the nation as
a whole, these small and wide-ranging benefits outweigh the
large and obvious loss. They can look at societies such as
 Singapore , which have prospered mightily in part because of
radical free-trade policies.  Of course that is little comfort to the person who lost the
job and career. The multiple answer for that is a vigorous
economy that will generate new opportunities faster than the old
ones disappear, an education system that prepares Americans to
take advantage of these opportunities and a generous social
welfare safety net for those who can’t. To deny ourselves the
benefits of free trade because of a cost we could easily pay out
of those benefits would be penny-wise and pound-foolish.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 