-- 
Chef Liebrandt Tastes Redemption; Spielberg’s Ugly Monsters: TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-06-13T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/chef-liebrandt-tastes-redemption-spielberg-s-ugly-monsters-television.html
The  HBO  documentary “ A Matter of
Taste: Serving Up Paul Liebrandt ” isn’t coy about presenting the
chef as a sauce-drizzling  Jackson Pollock  of haute cuisine.
Reticence, after all, doesn’t suit a man who makes a meal of eel
and violets.  In 2000, while running the kitchen at New York’s Atlas
restaurant, the floppy haired, 24-year-old became a foodie rock
star, the youngest chef ever to receive a three-star rating from
the New York Times.  Filmmaker Sally Rowe had the good sense -- or better fortune
-- to begin her eight-year filming of Liebrandt in December
2001, as youthful arrogance collided with history.  In the months after 9/11, the film suggests, restaurant
owners became convinced that New Yorkers wanted comfort food,
not edible art. Liebrandt found himself serving up burgers and
fries -- albeit gorgeous ones -- at a modest bistro.  He didn’t last long there, eventually landing at  Manhattan ’s
Gilt restaurant. But history, of a sort, shifted again: William
Grimes, the Times critic and Liebrandt champion, was succeeded
by Frank Bruni, who gave Liebrandt only two stars for his work
at Gilt. The chef was fired two months later.  The second half of the film is a redemption tale, as
Liebrandt, along with restaurateur Drew Nieporent, open Corton
in Tribeca. Rowe lets the tension simmer as chef and staff await
the unannounced visits of old nemesis Bruni.  The documentary has fun with the espionage between
restaurateurs and critics, and does not skimp on the food-porn
dishes and kitchen drama.  But the real draw here is Liebrandt himself -- driven yet
fully part of the aimlessness of  New York  after 9/11. The film
ends abruptly and is vague about the chef’s early days in London
and Paris. But as a portrait of talent struggling through uneasy
times, “Taste” is just right.  “A Matter of Taste: Serving Up Paul Liebrandt” airs tonight
on HBO at 9 p.m. New York time. Rating: ***1/2  ‘Falling Skies’  No national landmarks were injured in the making of TNT’s
new, very serious alien invasion series “ Falling Skies .” By the
time we join the apocalypse, the creatures have pretty much
cooked civilization and are coming for our kids.  Steven Spielberg , the executive producer of this gradually
engrossing drama, has turned his back on cuddly E.T. types. The
otherworldlies of “Skies,” called skitters, resemble hideous
crawfish with spider legs, assisted by giant walking, shooting
robots.  Kidnapped Kids  They’ve wiped out most of the world’s adults by Episode One,
abducting human children -- young adolescents, specifically --
for slave labor and fitting them with “harnesses,” grotesque
lobster-looking devices grafted along their spines.  Noah Wyle (“ER”) stars as Tom Mason, a history professor now
part of a 300-strong regiment of survivors and resistance
fighters battling the skitters while trying to rescue the
children.  The series isn’t particularly innovative -- you’ll think
“District 9” and “War of the Worlds,” for starters -- but earns
points for introducing alien villainy well suited for the Amber
Alert era.  “Falling Skies” premieres June 19 on TNT at 9 p.m. New York
time. It will start at 10 p.m. in subsequent weeks.) Rating:
**1/2.  ‘Hercule Poirot’  Two great men of mystery -- Hercule Poirot and his
definitive portrayer David Suchet -- are back in three new PBS
installments of the “Masterpiece Mystery!” series.  “Three Act Tragedy,” which airs Sunday, finds the Belgian
sleuth investigating a string of cocktail-party deaths, each
get-together attended by the same gaggle of guests.  It plods a bit, and the hoary solution shows the 1934 tale’s
age, but the lush settings, fine roundup of suspects (especially
Martin Shaw as a hammy actor) and Suchet himself make this a
solid entry in the “Poirot” cannon.  Next up: The cleverer “The Clocks” (June 26) and quirkier
“Hallowe’een Party” (July 3). Several “Miss Marple” episodes
follow in July.  “Hercule Poirot: Series XI” airs Sundays on PBS at 9 p.m.
New York time. Rating: ***  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 