-- 
Danielle Chiesi Gets 2 1/2-Year Prison Sentence in Galleon Insider Case

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-07-21T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/chiesi-should-serve-almost-4-years-in-prison-u-s-says-in-insider-case.html
Danielle Chiesi, the former New
Castle Funds LLC analyst who pleaded guilty to passing secret
tips to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, was
sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison.  U.S. District Court Judge Richard Holwell in  Manhattan 
yesterday called her crimes “deplorable” as he imposed the
sentence, plus two years of supervised release, on the 45-year-
old former beauty queen. “This was not an isolated
transgression,” he said.  “The message to  Wall Street  needs to be loud and clear. If
you trade on inside information, you will be caught,” Holwell
said. “And if convicted, you will be sentenced to a substantial
term in prison.”  Chiesi, who wore a light pink sleeveless sheath dress and
pearl necklace, must report Sept. 20 to  Federal Prison Camp
Alderson  in  West Virginia , a minimum-security facility in the
foothills of the Allegheny Mountains where  Martha Stewart  served
a five-month term after being convicted of lying to federal
authorities about her sale of stocks.  ‘Won’t Happen Again’  “I know that there’s a punishment for people who do
wrong,” Chiesi told the judge, dropping her head and her voice
choking with emotion. “But it won’t happen again.”  Holwell yesterday also imposed a $25,000 fine and ordered
her to do 250 hours of community service. He directed that she
undergo substance-abuse treatment and therapy “to allow her to
readjust a moral compass which obviously fell by the wayside.”  Chiesi pleaded guilty Jan. 19 to three counts of
conspiracy, telling Holwell at the time that she was “deeply
ashamed” of what she had done.  Chiesi’s lawyer,  Alan Kaufman , yesterday asked the judge
for less prison time than the 27 months Holwell imposed last
year on her former boss, Mark Kurland, co-founder of New Castle
Funds, arguing that she was emotionally and financially
dependent on Kurland. Chiesi’s lawyers claimed in court papers
that Kurland had used their “toxic” sexual relationship to
manipulate her into feeding him inside tips.  Assistant U.S. Attorneys  Reed Brodsky , Jonathan Streeter
and Andrew Michaelson had argued that Chiesi should get a term
of 37 to 46 months in prison, citing the U.S. sentencing
guidelines, which aren’t binding.  ‘Market Moving Crime’  In court yesterday, Michaelson disputed any depiction of
Chiesi as a victim of more powerful men. “She forced her
relationships, she committed the criminal conduct and she shared
that information with others,” he said. “Chiesi played a
central, starring role in her crimes.”  Michaelson said Chiesi “seriously corrupted the markets”
because she shared information with powerful fund managers like
Rajaratnam who controlled billions of dollars in assets and
acted on her tips. He cited an  insider trading  tip she shared in
one wiretapped August 2008 conversation with Rajaratnam
involving Advanced Micro Devices Inc.  After she illegally passed the information to Rajaratnam, 7
million shares of AMD were traded by recipients of her tips,
which accounted for 20 percent of the company’s stock traded
that day, Michaelson said.  “This is what makes Ms. Chiesi’s crime so significant,”
Michaelson said. “She committed, literally, the market-moving
crime.”  ‘Should Have Learned’  Chiesi left the courtroom accompanied by her family and
lawyers. When a court officer instructed reporters not to break
court rules and attempt to interview her in the building, Chiesi
quipped to her supporters, “I should have learned the rules
before I got wiretapped.”  Before leaving, she also stopped to shake hands with
prosecutors and Diane Wehner, the FBI agent who initially
arrested her in October 2009. Asked later what she said to them,
Chiesi smiled and said, “I told the FBI if they’re ever going
to knock on my door, do it in the afternoon,” referring to her
pre-dawn arrest.  Asked by reporters if she was prepared to serve her
sentence, Chiesi said, “Absolutely,” she said, “I anticipate
to survive.”  Kaufman said, “We think the judge gave what he thought was
a fair sentence and we respect the thoughtfulness and
thoroughness he paid. Danielle will serve her sentence and get
on with her life.”  Rajaratnam Convicted  Chiesi and Kurland both pleaded guilty in connection with a
government investigation of hedge-fund insider trading centered
on Rajaratnam, 54, in the largest crackdown on hedge-fund
insider trading in U.S. history.  Rajaratnam was convicted May 11 on five counts of
conspiracy and nine counts of  securities fraud  after an eight-
week trial. The Sri Lankan-born money manager was accused of
making $45 million from tips by corporate insiders. He is
scheduled to be sentenced Sept. 27.  More than two dozen people have been convicted by Manhattan
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office with four of them found
guilty at trial in the Galleon probe.  During Rajaratnam’s trial, jurors heard wiretaps of
conversations which they said showed insider trading as it
occurred.  ‘Finely Tuned Piano’  In a July 24, 2008, telephone conversation played during
Rajaratnam’s trial, Chiesi told Rajaratnam that she “played” a
friend “like a finely tuned piano” after getting a tip that
 Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM)  would cut its forecast.  “Honey, you know what, it’s just for us,” Chiesi
continued, according to the tape. “We go slow, keep shorting
every day.”  On one wiretap, Chiesi was heard worrying that she might
get convicted of a crime.  “I’ll be like Martha F---ing Stewart,” she says.  Chiesi didn’t testify at Rajaratnam’s trial.  Prosecutors say Chiesi was tipped by Kieran Taylor, then an
Akamai executive, who hasn’t been charged with wrongdoing. In a
short sale, an investor sells borrowed shares, hoping to replace
them later with cheaper shares while profiting from the
difference.  Akamai announced its lower forecast on July 30, 2008. At
5:30 p.m. that day, Rajaratnam called Chiesi to say “thank
you,” according to another tape played at Rajaratnam’s trial in
which Rajaratnam says he sold at least 150,000 Akamai shares
short. The stock, which closed at $31.25 on July 30, opened the
next day at $23.34.  “You did it in such a classy way,” Rajaratnam said in the
taped call. “The way you worked the relationship.”  “It’s a conquest,” an excited Chiesi replied, according
to the tape. “It’s a conquest. It’s mentally fabulous for me.”  Kurland’s Release  Kurland is scheduled to be released in July 2012, the U.S.
Bureau of Prisons website shows. Former ex-Atheros
Communications Inc. Vice President Ali Hariri, who was convicted
in the Galleon case, was sentenced to serve 18 months in prison
and is scheduled to be released in May 2012, according to the
Bureau of Prisons website.  Prosecutors said that Chiesi received inside information
from sources including  Hector Ruiz , the former chairman of AMD,
and  Robert Moffat , a former  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  executive. She passed the tips to Kurland and to portfolio
managers including Rajaratnam, Steven Fortuna, Richard Choo-Beng Lee and Ali Far.  Ruiz hasn’t been charged criminally. Moffat, Fortuna, Lee
and Far have all pleaded guilty. Lee and Far, who are
cooperating with the U.S., haven’t been sentenced.  ‘Intimate Relationship’  Moffat, who said he had an “intimate relationship” with
Chiesi, was sentenced to six months in prison and was released
in May, the Bureau of Prisons website shows. In his own
sentencing memorandum, Moffat claimed she “played him” to
obtain inside information.  In papers filed before sentencing, Chiesi’s lawyers said
she has had difficulty coping with the loss of her relationship
with Kurland and her job and with anxiety over the criminal
charges, they said. Chiesi’s psychiatrist diagnosed her with
borderline personality disorder, according to the filing.  Patrick Smith and Theodore Altman, lawyers who represent
Kurland, didn’t immediately return voice-mail messages seeking
comment.  “Dani was motivated by an unhealthy and abnormal desire to
please,” her lawyers told the judge in a court filing. “The
primary focus of this was  Mark Kurland , but it also affected her
interactions with other people in the hedge fund world and with
executives at public companies.”  “Chiesi operated largely on her own, and she was
sufficiently experienced and sophisticated that she knew
precisely what she was doing,” the government argued in its
sentencing memorandum. “In short, she was not merely Kurland’s
minion.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-1184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  