-- 
Chile Peso Little Changed as Greece Rating Curbs Risk Appetite

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-06-13T18:16:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/chilean-peso-advances-on-prospects-of-increased-borrowing-costs.html
Chile ’s peso closed little changed
against the U.S. dollar as prospects of increased lending costs
were offset by a reduced appetite for riskier, emerging-market
assets after Standard & Poor’s cut  Greece ’s credit rating.  The peso fell less than 0.1 percent to 467.80 per U.S.
dollar from 467.67 on June 10. It earlier strengthened as much
as 0.4 percent.  “Copper has been down and then we had the news from Greece
and the mood has been to seek safety in U.S. dollars,” said
Mauricio Olivares, a trader at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Chile unit.  The price of copper, which accounts for half of Chile’s
exports, fell as much as 1 percent in  New York  on concern a
weakening global economy will trim demand. Greece was cut three
levels by  Standard & Poor’s , which said a restructuring looks
“increasingly likely.”  Chile’s central bank has increased  interest rates  in 11 of
its past 12 monthly meetings to 5 percent, raising lending costs
by a half-point in the past three months. The bank probably will
lift the rate to 5.25 percent tomorrow after consumer prices
rose a higher-than-expected 0.4 percent in May, according to a
survey by the central bank to 70 economists released last week.  Fourteen of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg estimate
the central bank will raise rates by a quarter-point in June.
Two estimate rates to be left unchanged and two forecast an
increase to 5.5 percent.  The central bank paid an average 465.85 per dollar for $50
million as part of $12 billion effort to limit the peso’s gains,
according to data posted on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  