-- 
China Cracks Down in Wake of Riots, Bombings

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-13T09:20:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/china-cracks-down-in-wake-of-riots-bombings.html
Officials in central  China ’s Hubei
province were suspended or detained after protests last week
sparked by the death of a local councilman, reflecting rising
public anger at abuse of power and a widening income gap.  At least five officials in Lichuan were detained or
suspended following the June 4 death in police custody of Ran
Jianxin, a former head of the city’s anti-corruption bureau who
was being questioned over bribery, a government statement said.
 Photographs  purporting to show Ran’s beaten body circulated on
the Internet, and his family claimed he had been punished
because of earlier allegations of corruption against senior
officials over a land deal, the  Associated Press  reported,  Armored cars were used to quell protests on June 9 that
were sparked by Ran’s death, with people throwing bottles and
eggs as they clashed with police, the AP reported, citing local
witnesses. Riots, strikes and protests are on the rise as
inequality grows and people lash out at corrupt local
governments seeking to generate income by selling homes and
farms to real-estate developers at a profit.  “People are getting frustrated” at the “systemic
exploitation of the have-nots, people at the bottom of the
barrel,” said Willy Wo-lap Lam, an adjunct professor of history
at the Chinese University of  Hong Kong . The “formidable state
control mechanism is still viable. I don’t think the regime is
susceptible to being overcome by a Chinese-style Jasmine
revolution,” he said, referring to the protests that have swept
away regimes in the  Middle East .  Beijing Protest  As many as 50 people in Beijing today protested outside of
the Railway Ministry, holding signs demanding compensation for
lost jobs. Several of the demonstrators kicked and punched some
people who emerged from the ministry to confront them.  Last year China spent more on domestic security than it did
on national defense, according to the  Finance Ministry . The
increase in police spending comes as so-called mass incidents,
which include protests, riots and strikes, doubled in five years
to 180,000 last year, according to Sun Liping, a professor of
sociology at Beijing’s Tsinghua University.  Victor Shih, a professor of political science at
 Northwestern University  in Evanston,  Illinois , said public
discontent may continue because local governments, which rely on
land sales to pay back loans for infrastructure projects, have
an incentive to minimize compensation to the owners. The
properties are then sold at a profit to developers.  May Bombing  A land dispute was central to a May 26 bombing in Jiangxi
province that killed three people. Qian Mingqi also died in one
of the three blasts he triggered in protest over compensation he
had been offered in a resettlement, Xinhua said. Two local
officials were dismissed after the explosions, the agency
reported.  The Lichuan unrest was followed days later by an explosion
near a government building in Tianjin that injured two people,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported June 10. That same day,
more than 100 people in a town in  Guangdong province  clashed
with police over a crackdown on the sale of illegal goods, the
 China Daily  reported. Police in riot gear patrolled the streets
after three days of protests in the town, Zengcheng, Hong Kong
government broadcaster reported today, without saying where it
got the information.  China’s southern city of Chaozhou banned mass gatherings
after protests this month sparked by a wage dispute escalated
into clashes between locals and migrant workers, Caixin Online
 reported  on June 8.  China raised minimum wages in 13 provinces for the first
quarter of this year by about 20 percent on average to prevent
social unrest, Xinhua News Agency said in April. The country’s
inflation accelerated to 5.3 percent in April, exceeding the
government’s 4 percent target for a fourth month.  Consumer Prices  A report tomorrow may show that consumer prices jumped 5.5
percent in May from a year earlier, the biggest gain in almost
three years, the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
shows. Prime Minister  Wen Jiabao  said in March that controlling
inflation was a top priority as the government seeks to narrow
social inequalities fueling instability.  Authorities in China have reacted to the unrest with a
combination of police force to quell protests and publicly
announced actions to try to address people’s grievances. In
Lichuan, officials held a meeting the day after Ran’s death,
announcing on the local county government’s website that they
attach “great importance” to investigating his death.  Mou Laijun, a member of the local commission for discipline
inspection, was suspended after Ran’s death, the local
government announced June 11. Zheng Zhengping, head of the
county’s anti-corruption bureau was suspended and two local
officials were arrested.  Li Wei , the vice-party secretary for
Lichuan, is under investigation.  The cause of Ran’s death is still under investigation, the
local government said on its website. A family cousin said he
found wounds on the dead man’s body and believed the death was
“unnatural,” Xinhua said June 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  