-- 
China Lending Unexpectedly Tumbles, Adding to Evidence Economy Is Slowing

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-13T09:26:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/china-s-lending-is-below-estimates-as-fastest-growing-major-economy-cools.html
China ’s lending tumbled in May and
 money supply  grew at the slowest pace since 2008, adding to
signs that the world’s second-biggest economy is cooling.  Loans were 551.6 billion yuan ($85 billion), less than the
650 billion yuan median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
20 economists and 639 billion yuan a year earlier. M2, the
broadest measure of money supply, rose 15.1 percent, the
People’s Bank of China said on its website.  The Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.2 percent as the data
fueled concern that interest-rate increases to combat inflation
will trigger a slowdown. A report tomorrow may show that
consumer prices jumped 5.5 percent in May from a year earlier,
the biggest gain in almost three years, the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey shows.  “This provides another data point highlighting the growth
risk,” said Tao Dong, a Hong Kong-based economist for Credit
Suisse Group AG. “I think the economy is heading to a soft
landing in the second half of 2011, but the risk of a hard
landing seems to be on the rise,” Tao said, adding that small
companies are short of credit.  New loans in the first five months of the year totaled 3.55
trillion yuan, 12 percent lower than the same period last year
and 40 percent smaller than in 2009 when credit surged to
cushion the nation from the impact of the global financial
crisis.  A moderating expansion in the Chinese economy is adding to
concerns that global growth is faltering.  ‘Elements of Fragility’  In the U.S., the world’s largest economy, the  unemployment
rate  in May climbed to 9.1 percent, the government said last
week, and a report tomorrow may show retail sales fell for the
first time in 11 months.  Japan ’s economy shrank by more than
economists estimated in the first quarter, government data
showed last week, and European economies are struggling with
debt restructuring.  “There are already elements of fragility,”  Nouriel
Roubini , the New York University professor and co-founder and
chairman of Roubini Global Economics LLC, said in an interview
in  Singapore  on June 11. World expansion may slow in the second
half of 2011 as “the deleveraging process continues,” fiscal
stimulus is withdrawn and confidence ebbs, he said.  Non-deliverable yuan forwards traded at 6.3920 per dollar,
indicating the currency may gain about 1.4 percent in the next
12 months.  Lending Squeeze  At Bank of America Merrill Lynch, economist Lu Ting said
that “the chance of a hard landing is very small and the market
could be overly concerned about a ‘lending squeeze’ in China.”
Lu said that changes to the way that money-supply data is
calculated may have contributed to smaller gains. He added that
bank lending is “firmly under control.”  China has been reining in lending to control inflation and
the risk that bad loans will swell after a record expansion in
credit that was the nation’s main response to the global
financial crisis. Companies pushing up prices have included
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s biggest restaurant chain.  The central bank has raised  interest rates  four times since
September and also ratcheted up lenders’ reserve requirements to
record levels. The benchmark one-year lending rate is now 6.31
percent and the one-year deposit rate is 3.25 percent.  Inflation Accelerates  Credit Agricole CIB today forecast one more rate increase
this year, in June. Daiwa Securities Capital Markets economists
led by  Sun Mingchun  also expect a boost this month in response
to an acceleration in May inflation, with no further adjustments
after that.  Citigroup Inc. sees one or two benchmark interest-rate
increases in the “next couple of months.” Consumer prices may
jump by about 6 percent in June and gains will remain elevated
in the second half of the year, the bank’s Hong Kong-based
economists led by Shen Minggao said in a note today.  “Concerns about over-tightening are unwarranted given that
the current pace of monetary growth at around 15 percent is more
than sufficient to support economic growth of around 9
percent,”  Qu Hongbin , Hong Kong-based economist with HSBC
Holdings Plc said in a report after today’s data was released.  China’s slower gains in manufacturing and industrial
production have prompted “a shift in market worries from
overheating to a hard landing,” UBS AG economist  Wang Tao  said
in a May 31 report. While power shortages and de-stocking by
companies will trim growth this quarter, the economy is set to
expand more than 9 percent this year, according to Wang.  That pace would compare with International Monetary Fund
projections in April of 2.8 percent growth in the U.S. and a 1.6
percent expansion in the euro area.  --Zheng Lifei in Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery, Ken McCallum  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Zheng Lifei in
Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  