-- 
Chinese Go on Global Homebuying Spree as Local Markets Tighten

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g ,   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r   a n d   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-06-14T04:40:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/chinese-mount-global-homebuying-spree-as-governments-squeeze-local-markets.html
On a sunny Saturday in early June,
Larry Zhou strolled the floor of a property exhibition in  Hong
Kong , wondering whether it was time to buy another home -- not
in the city, where residential prices have soared 50 percent in
the past two years, but maybe in Thailand or Malaysia.  “My wife and I have been thinking about investing outside
of the country since we already own an apartment in  Shanghai ,”
Zhou, a 38-year-old civil engineer, said in an interview at the
Hong Kong Convention & Exhibition Centre before wrapping up a
business trip and returning home. “I’ve known people in
Shanghai who like to bring their money and invest in Hong Kong
properties, but I think Hong Kong is way too expensive.”  The two-day event that lured Zhou and 3,000 others is one
way that  China ’s blossoming wealthy and middle classes are
finding investment properties and second homes around the world
-- exporting a real estate boom that has driven up prices 26
percent in Shanghai last year and 28 percent in Beijing, and
bolstering markets around the world. In cities with established
Chinese populations, like Sydney,  Singapore , and  San Francisco ,
Asians on homebuying tours meet brokers such as Betty Chan, who
markets herself on her website as “Las Vegas’ #1 Chinese Lady
Real Estate Broker.”  Investors are grabbing everything from $68,000 foreclosed
condominiums in Florida to $2 million beachfront villas in
Vietnam, a buying spree fueled by China’s surging wealth that
mirrors the country’s expanding influence in markets for gold,
oil and food. The search for overseas property accelerated in
the past seven months as the governments in Hong Kong and
Beijing imposed purchasing and financing limits, steps that are
starting to cool off domestic markets.  Driven Overseas  Buyers from China have come to international property
investing much later than their counterparts in Hong Kong, who
are wealthier and have a more easily convertible currency.  “The purchase restrictions in China drove them overseas,
while they look for investments to counter the inflation,” said
Mo Tianquan, founder and chairman of Beijing-based  SouFun
Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , which runs China’s biggest real estate website
and organizes buying excursions abroad. “Some of them will buy
homes considering better education opportunities for their kids,
while others look for immigration options.”  Hong Kong on June 10 intensified its efforts to curb
property prices, requiring buyers of homes costing more than
HK$6 million ($770,000) to increase up-front payments. For
properties of HK$10 million or more, the down payment will be 50
percent.  Surcharge for Outsiders  Foreign buyers must deposit an additional 10 percent, a
change made as demand from China rises. Borrowers whose income
is primarily from outside Hong Kong will need to make the higher
down payment unless they can demonstrate a “close connection”
to the city, such as working for a local employer or having
immediate family there, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority said.  The government on Nov. 19 increased stamp duties on homes
sold within six months of purchase and mandated higher down
payments on those costing HK$8 million or more. Hong Kong, which
broker  Savills Plc (SVS)  says is the world’s most expensive place to
buy an apartment, reported the number of home-sale transactions
fell for a fifth straight month in May amid rising mortgage
rates.  As global economies recover following the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 and the ensuing
financial crisis, more investors in Hong Kong are willing to
explore newer, riskier markets in their quest for higher returns,
said Michael Piro, director of sales at Indochina Land, the real
estate division of Indochina Capital Corp., Vietnam’s third-
largest investment firm.  Across Asia  The company is resuming sales of properties to Hong Kong
buyers after a two-year hiatus and plans to target them for its
new luxury development in the Con Dao islands off the southeast
coast of Vietnam, Piro said.  Banyan Tree Holdings Ltd. (BTH)  sold villas priced from $750,000
to $3 million at an event in March showcasing properties in
Bangkok and Phuket in Thailand, Bintan in Indonesia and Lijiang
in China, according to Dan Simmons, vice president at the
Singapore-based firm’s Banyan Tree Residences & Laguna Property
unit.  In Sri Lanka, which was last year named the  New York  Times’
top travel destination, beachfront land is being acquired by
foreign investors who have poured into the country since the end
of almost 30 years of civil war in 2009, said Sue Fitzgerald,
whose firm, Property Perfect Solutions, is marketing Karooda
Properties’ Thona Bay resort on the eastern coast of the Indian
Ocean island nation. Hong Kong residents, who account for 70
percent of Fitzgerald’s clients, are buying there in the hope of
getting more for their money than they do at home, she said.  Vietnam Villas  Resort developers often sell individual villas, many before
they’re completed, with guaranteed returns over a specified
number of years. A buyer can stay at the property and use the
resort’s amenities free of charge for a certain number of days a
year, with the developer or an outside company renting it out
for the owner at other times.  Indochina Land’s most recent sale, to a buyer from Hong
Kong, was a $2 million villa at its Nam Hai beachside
development in the city of Hoi An on Vietnam’s central coast,
Piro said. The 3,000-square-meter (32,000-square-foot) property
features a 348-square-meter house with three bedrooms and a
swimming pool.  For buyers from China, the investing drive shifted into
high gear after the government stepped up efforts to prevent
real estate bubbles in cities such as Shanghai and Shenzhen.  Deflating the Bubble  China lifted the minimum down payment for second-home
purchases to 60 percent from 50 percent in January, after 19
straight months of price increases. The government also set
 interest rates  for second-home mortgages at no less than 110
percent of benchmark rates while mandating that those who sell
within five years of purchase pay full transaction taxes.  China’s home prices rose at a slower pace in major cities
in April even as they quickened in smaller ones. The government
last month said it won’t ease property curbs and ordered local
officials to continue to implement measures to control prices.
The value of home sales climbed 16 percent from January to May,
while property development investment rose 35 percent.  “A lot of mainlanders have come into Hong Kong, buying
into luxury and mid-priced properties and pushing prices up, and
the government has imposed restrictions to curb the market,”
said Fitzgerald of Property Perfect, who is based in Hong Kong.
“You wouldn’t buy here at the moment. People are looking at
more interesting markets, they’re looking for places where they
can build, where they can buy-to-let, and where they can
retire.”  London  Beckons  One such place is London, where education, language and
Britain’s weak currency have combined to make the capital the
leading city in  Europe  for Chinese residential real estate
buyers, according to Yolande Barnes, research director at
Savills, the U.K.’s largest publicly traded property broker.  “It’s quite a recent phenomenon,” she said. “They have
been much more of a force after 2009, and in common with a lot
of overseas buyers, that’s the result of favorable exchange
rates.”  The pound has lost about a fifth of its value against the
Hong Kong dollar since the U.K.’s housing market peaked in the
third quarter of 2007.  In 2008, none of the 82 million pounds of overseas
transactions in London’s Canary Wharf and Docklands areas for
existing homes involved Chinese buyers, according to London-
based Savills. Last year, they accounted for 40 percent of the
100 million pounds of property acquired by foreign investors.
Residential prices in prime central London rose 2 percent in the
first quarter from the previous three months.  College Town  Chinese families are increasingly sending their children to
the U.K. for college, with around 100,000 students in the
country last year, said Jennet Siebrits, head of U.K.
residential research in London at  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. (CBG) ,
the world’s largest commercial-property broker. That compares
with 4,000 in 1999.  London has four of the world’s top 100 universities, one
more than its nearest rival, New York, according to a survey
compiled for the London-based Times Higher Education magazine.  At  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV) , the U.K.’s largest homebuilder
by volume, 42 percent of the residential units it sold in London
this year through May were to overseas customers, all of whom
were Chinese, said Gary Patrick, regional sales director at the
London-based company.  For the Chinese, where you buy in London depends on how
long you’ve been wealthy, said Barnes of Savills. Second- and
third-generation Hong Kong residents gravitate toward prime
central London locations like Knightsbridge, Mayfair and
Kensington, while the newly rich look in Canary Wharf and the
Docklands.  In the Wings  “It’s the established Hong Kong billionaire versus the
newly wealthy multimillionaires of China who might be buying
foreign property for the first time,” Barnes said.  Even as London heats up, some Chinese and other investors
are looking farther afield in Europe, according to Tim Murphy,
founder and chief executive officer of IP Global, a Hong Kong-
based real estate advisory firm.  “Investors are looking at a number of markets outside of
the U.K., including  Germany , Italy, Spain and Turkey, all of
which are only six to 12 months away from really flourishing
with opportunities,” Murphy said in an e-mail.  Istanbul is especially promising, with prices rising and
“a strong economic outlook, a growing tourism industry, low
interest rates, great location and growth in housing loan
volumes,” he said.  Vancouver , Silicon Valley  In North America, moderate weather, good schools and
established Chinese communities are drawing buyers to cities
such as Vancouver, which had the third-highest housing costs
among English-speaking cities worldwide in 2010, according to
Canada’s Frontier Centre for Public Policy. Hong Kong and Sydney
were first and second.  Sales of detached homes, townhouses and condominiums in
metropolitan Vancouver climbed 32 percent in March from the
previous month, and were just below a record for the month of
4,371 transactions set in 2004. The median price of a detached
house in greater Vancouver rose 13 percent in 2010 to a record
C$774,000 ($792,000) from C$685,000 at the end of 2009,
according to the Real Estate Board of Greater Vancouver.  In the U.S., Chinese buyers have helped support home sales
and prices in Silicon Valley and Hawaii, while they are an
increasing presence in Las Vegas and New York, according to
local brokers. They accounted for 9 percent of U.S. home
purchases by foreigners in the 12 months ended in March of both
2010 and 2011, up from 5 percent in 2009, according to a survey
released in May by the National Association of Realtors, a
Chicago-based trade group. That’s second to Canadians, who
accounted for 23 percent of international sales.  Prices Climb Back  Sales of existing single-family detached houses in
Cupertino,  California  -- where  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is based -- rose 21
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, and the median
home price climbed 2.1 percent to $1 million, putting it 13
percent below its 2007 record, according to DataQuick, a San
Diego-based provider of real estate statistics. Nationally,
prices on comparable properties are down 37 percent from the
peak in 2006.  California residential resales and median prices also rose
in Palo Alto, where Facebook Inc. is based and which is adjacent
to Stanford University; in Mountain View, where Google Inc. has
its headquarters; and in Sunnyvale, Atherton, San Carlos and Los
Gatos, according to DataQuick.  It’s almost impossible to find two-to-four-unit apartment
buildings to buy in Cupertino partly because of high demand from
non-U.S. buyers, primarily Chinese, said Jim Carter, a real
estate agent at Intero Real Estate Services in Los Altos,
California.  Circumventing Currency Rules  “If the son or daughter doesn’t have enough money, what
happens is the parents or grandparents from China will help them
fund the deal,” he said. “In most places, it’s all cash. They
just transfer the money, like, boom.”  The annual limit for Chinese citizens to buy foreign
currencies is $50,000, according to China’s State Administration
of Foreign Exchange. It’s an obstacle many can get around.  “Most of these buyers are rich and they have their trade
companies or rep offices in Hong Kong, Kuala Lumpur or
Singapore,” said Larry Hu, a Shanghai-based director of the
residential department for Knight Frank LLP. “Those places
don’t have currency controls, so they can pay via their
companies’ offshore accounts.”  Value of Schools  At Coldwell Banker’s residential office in Cupertino,
“we’re seeing a huge number of all-cash transactions, and most
of those are from mainland China,” said Nina Yamaguchi,
managing broker. “The thing that draws the Asians here is the
schools are so highly touted. Cupertino is certainly not
beautiful. It doesn’t have wonderful architecture.”  Yamaguchi estimates that about one-third of her firm’s
recent residential deals have been all cash, primarily at the
two ends of the market -- the most expensive properties and
distressed sales.  “I’ve been managing this group of people for over 17 years
and we’ve always had a strong Asian demographic, but now it
seems even more so,” Yamaguchi said.  Checking new listings the third week of May, she saw a
house for sale in near-mint condition located in the Prospect
High School district. Meanwhile, about a mile (1.6 kilometers)
up the road, a smaller house in worse shape listed for $350,000
more because the owner would qualify for Lynbrook High School,
which scores higher on the state academic performance index, she
said.  Hawaii Bound  “You can almost guarantee that the buyers of the smaller,
more expensive house are going to be Asian,” she said. “What
tends to happen is older white people retire because they can
get so much more for their house, and the younger Asian
demographic moves in.”  Hawaii is attracting a growing share of China’s emerging
millionaires with its golf courses and hotels, as well as luxury
vacation homes, said Patricia Choi of Choi International in
Honolulu.  “I could tell a marked difference” in client referrals
during a three-week trip to China in April, compared with a trip
last year, she said.  In Waipahu, northwest of Honolulu on the island of Oahu,
sales of existing single-family detached houses rose 1.8 percent
in the first quarter from a year earlier, and the median price
climbed 5.7 percent to $512,500, 12 percent below the record in
2007, according to DataQuick.  While Honolulu sales fell 4.8 percent last quarter, the
median price rose 1.1 percent to $720,000, putting it 18 percent
below its peak.  “The luxury market continues to be strong, with low
inventory,” Choi said.  Betting on Vegas  “The big thing is they can buy fee simple land,” said
Choi, referring to private ownership. In China, the government
owns all the land. “That is an important factor that will
create more interest in buying properties here and will be
reflected in the price they’re willing to pay.”  In Las Vegas, where prices plunged 58 percent from their
2006 peak, broker Chan said she saw a big increase in buyers
from China as news spread of the city’s low-cost homes. Nevada
had the highest rate of foreclosure filings in April at one per
97 households, according to RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine,
California-based data seller.  Chinese entrepreneurs with import-export, engineering,
medical-device, cell-phone manufacturing and restaurant
businesses are buying vacation homes, homes for children who
attend school in Las Vegas and income property, said Chan, who
is originally from Hong Kong.  “The No. 1 reason is the price,” she said. “They don’t
flip. Chinese like to keep.”  New York  The Chinese are usually in a hurry when they shop, often
buying at least two houses per visit, paying cash because they
don’t have time to take out a mortgage, Chan said.  “They don’t mind spending $1 million or $2 million here,”
she said. “But they aren’t building. Last year, a group came to
start a project. They looked around, did calculations and
decided it’s not really worth the effort. Now in China, they can
make more money.”  In New York, interest among Chinese buyers has picked up
noticeably since January, about the same time the government in
Beijing issued new restrictions on second-home buying, according
to Asher Alcobi, president and co-founder of Peter Ashe Real
Estate, a New York brokerage specializing in luxury properties.  Trump Appeal  One of Alcobi’s Chinese clients recently closed on two
units at  Manhattan ’s Trump SoHo, a condominium hotel where the
apartments are rented out as hotel rooms for more than half the
year and owners share the revenue.  “Chinese love the Trump,” Alcobi said. Anything that has
the Trump name is good.”  High-net-worth buyers are looking in Manhattan because
property prices in China and Hong Kong are already at bubble
levels, said Wei Min Tan, founder of Castle Avenue Partners, a
group within New York’s Rutenberg Realty that assists buyers
from overseas.  “From a price perspective, New York is actually cheap,”
he said. “Hong Kong is 50 percent more expensive than Manhattan
on a square-foot basis.”  While Chinese buying has provided a welcomed boost to
struggling U.S. cities, there has been a backlash in  Australia ,
long a magnet for Asian immigrants. The federal government
introduced rules in April 2010 requiring temporary residents to
seek approval to buy existing property and sell when leaving.
Buyers living overseas can purchase only newly built housing.  Shut Out  The changes, which reversed a 2008 easing of restrictions
on foreign investments in property, came after local homebuyers
and real estate groups blamed demand from overseas investors,
particularly Chinese, for inflating prices. Values rose 5.8
percent in 2010 after soaring almost 14 percent in the previous
year, government statistics show.  “There’s a whole field of Chinese buyers wanting to buy,
but they can’t purchase existing properties here anymore,” said
Garth Turnbull, property consultant at City Residential in
Melbourne. “There are some sales to parents whose children are
studying here. That used to be just part of the market, but now
it’s basically all that’s left.”  As buyers living in China turn to new properties to comply
with the rules, companies including Meriton Pty., Australia’s
biggest apartment developer, have benefited.  “Our sales are determined by the Chinese,” said Harry Triguboff, founder and managing director of Sydney-based Meriton,
which gets about 15 percent of its sales from Chinese buyers.
“They’re the ones who’re buying. They’ve been buying from me
for the past 40 years, but they’ve become more important in the
last few years.”  Florida Foreclosures  Australian house prices declined in the first quarter by
the most since 2008, the statistics bureau said last month, as
rising interest rates and natural disasters kept homebuyers on
the sidelines even as homes listed for sale climbed to a two-
year high.  Back at the housing exposition in Hong Kong, David Lau is
pitching condominiums in Apopka, Florida, about 15 miles north
of Orlando, Florida, that his client acquired during the
subprime-mortgage crisis. An 800-square-foot unit is going for
$68,000, down from the original price of $129,000.  “The prices we’re selling them at are below cost,” said
Lau, executive director at Singapore-based property agency Roof
Real Estate Group Pte. “Most of the people who’ve checked out
our booth are locals, but we’re also aware of the huge buying
power of mainland Chinese buyers. That’s why our next stop is
going to be Guangzhou.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;
Hui-yong Yu in Vancouver at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  