-- 
Citigroup Took Three Weeks to Notify Customers of Breach

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-06-13T20:18:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/citigroup-said-to-take-three-weeks-to-notify-customers-of-breach.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. lender, took as long as three weeks to notify customers
after data for about 210,000 credit-card accounts in  North
America  were breached.  “Citi immediately rectified the data breach upon
discovery, while also placing internal fraud alerts and
monitoring on all accounts at risk,” Sean Kevelighan, a
spokesman for Citigroup, said today in an e-mailed statement.
“Simultaneously, we began analysis to determine the precise
accounts and type of information accessed, which resulted in
roughly 1 percent of North America Citi-branded credit cards.
Within three weeks -- June 3 precisely -- we began sending
notification letters to clients, the majority of which included
re-issued credit cards.”  Online intruders accessed customer names, account numbers
and contact information, the New York-based company said in an
e-mailed statement last week. Social Security numbers, dates of
birth and bank-card security codes weren’t breached, the bank
said last week.  Citigroup had 21.1 million credit-card accounts at the end
of the first quarter. Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 54,
shuffled the business in September, replacing unit head  Paul Galant  with Judson Linville, a former  American Express Co. (AXP) 
executive. The division said first-quarter profit from
continuing operations more than tripled to $460 million from the
same period a year earlier.  The Wall Street Journal reported the delay in alerting
customers earlier today, saying the bank’s internal
investigation took 10 to 12 days after beginning within 24 hours
of the discovery. The Journal cited an unnamed person familiar
with the situation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  