-- 
Clinton Calls for African Leaders’ Support Against Qaddafi

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-06-13T15:29:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/clinton-calls-for-african-leaders-support-against-qaddafi.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called for more support from African Union leaders for
the ouster of Muammar Qaddafi and said the “old ways” of
governing on the continent were no longer acceptable.  “Too many people in Africa live under long-standing rulers
who care too much about the longevity of their reign and too
little about the legacy that should be built,” Clinton said
today in the Ethiopian capital of  Addis Ababa . “The status quo
is broken. The old ways of governing are no longer acceptable.”  Even as African countries from Senegal to Mauritania have
in the past week said Qaddafi is no longer the legitimate leader
of Libya after four decades in power, the top U.S. diplomat said
more nations in the continent need to call on him to leave.
“Your words and actions could make the difference in bringing
this situation to a close,” she said.  Clinton, who arrived at the headquarters of the 53-member
 African Union  amid torrential rains, met earlier with AU
Chairman  Jean Ping . The organization was created in 2002.  In the middle of her speech, a power cut plunged the room
into darkness. Clinton continued, saying that when something
like this happens you have to keep on going.  At least 14 African countries are not free, according to
the Washington-based  Freedom House , examples include Zimbabwe,
Angola, Gabon, Equatorial Guinea and Ethiopia.  Clinton singled out for praise countries such as Nigeria
Malawi, Tanzania and Botswana.  Ethiopia is the last stop on Clinton’s five-day tour of
Africa that began in Zambia and proceeded to Tanzania, where her
arrival coincided with the killing of Fazul Abdullah Mohammed,
the suspected al-Qaeda commander held responsible for the 1998
bombings of the U.S. embassies in Nairobi and  Dar Es Salaam .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Lusaka, Zambia at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 