-- 
Compugates, Gadang, RHB, United U-Li: Malaysia Stock Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-06-13T00:33:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/compugates-gadang-rhb-united-u-li-malaysia-stock-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in  Malaysia  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index rose 0.3 percent to
1,556.19 on June 10.    Compugates Holdings Bhd. (CGHB)  : The supplier of
cellular phones, calculators and digital cameras proposed a
bonus issue of 1.07 million warrants on the basis of one warrant
for every two existing shares held, according to a stock
exchange filing. The stock was unchanged at 6 sen.        Gadang Holdings Bhd. (GADG)  : The property and
construction group won a 23.9 million ringgit ($7.9 million)
building contract from Syarikat Prasarana Negara Bhd., the
company said in a statement. The stock was unchanged at 65 sen.        PJI Holdings Bhd. (PJIH)  : The engineering services group
won a 10.6 million-ringgit contract from UEM Construction Sdn.
to install and maintain fire protection services at the Kuala
Lumpur International Airport, according to an exchange filing.
The shares gained 2.6 percent to 19.5 sen.        RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC)  : Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC,
the United Arab Emirates’ third-biggest bank by assets, plans to
hold talks with Abu Dhabi government-owned Aabar Investments
PJSC to sell its 25 percent stake in banking group RHB Capital.
Abu Dhabi Commercial received regulatory approval from
Malaysia’s central bank to negotiate with Aabar, it said in a
statement to the Abu Dhabi bourse. RHB Capital was unchanged at
9.90 ringgit.        Telekom Malaysia Bhd. (T)  : The Employees Provident Fund,
the country’s biggest pension fund, sold 4 million shares in the
national fixed-line and Internet services provider, stock
exchange filings show. Telekom fell 0.3 percent to 3.85 ringgit.        Toyo Ink Group Bhd. (TOYO)  : The printing ink
manufacturer agreed to buy industrial land for 8.97 million
ringgit. Toyo plans to build a factory and office on the land,
it said in a statement. The shares rose 5.9 percent to 1.62
ringgit.       United U-Li Corp. (UULI MK): The manufacturer of cable
support systems and other industrial metal products signed a
preliminary agreement to sell three units to Legrand SA for an
“indicative” 200 million ringgit, according to a company
statement. The stock was halted on June 8. It jumped 14 percent
to 95 sen on June 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  