-- 
Corporate Yield Spreads Swell to Eight-Month High on Growth: Mexico Credit

-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-06-13T21:51:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/corporate-yield-spreads-swell-to-eight-month-high-on-growth-mexico-credit.html
Investors are demanding the biggest
yield premium in eight months to own Mexican corporate bonds,
driving up borrowing costs for companies led by Cemex SAB and
Desarrolladora Homex SAB.  Concern slowing growth in the U.S. will curb exports has
helped push yields on Mexican dollar bonds relative to  U.S.
Treasuries  higher by 23 basis points, or 0.23 percentage point,
in the past month to 312 last week, the most since Oct. 19,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Brazilian companies’ overseas
borrowing costs climbed 21 basis points during the same period
to 281.  Mounting evidence of a slowdown in the  U.S. economy , which
buys about 80 percent of Mexico’s exports, is prompting
investors to shun higher-yielding emerging-market assets.  Latin
America ’s second-biggest economy grew 4.6 percent in the first
quarter, less than the 5 percent median forecast in a survey by
Bloomberg. Mexican policy makers said in a statement after their
decision to keep interest rates at a record low last month that
there was a “moderation in the pace” of the expansion.  “There’s less confidence in riskier assets,”  Enrique Alvarez , head of Latin American fixed-income research at
IdeaGlobal in New York, said in a telephone interview. “Mexico
is affected, especially in the corporate side, by a more
negative reading of U.S. economic data.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed three basis
points to 144 at 5 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan.  ‘Work In Progress’  Cemex’s bonds due in 2020 yield 662 basis points more than
Treasuries, up 87 basis points since May 13 and the highest
since Dec. 6, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
yields rose 44 basis points to 9.271 percent last week. Chief
Financial Officer Fernando Gonzalez said on a conference call on
April 29 that the housing-sector recovery in the U.S., the
company’s biggest foreign market, “remains a work in
progress.”  Jorge Perez, a Cemex spokesman in the Monterrey suburb of
San Pedro Garza Garcia, didn’t immediately provide comment when
contacted by telephone. Cemex, based in Monterrey,  Mexico , is
the largest cement producer in the Americas.  Borrowing costs for Culiacan, Mexico-based Desarrolladora
Homex SAB, Mexico’s biggest homebuilder, also jumped, with the
yield premium over Treasuries on its notes due 2019 widening 65
basis points over the last month to 563, the biggest since July
22, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yields
increased 17 basis points last week to 8.18 percent.  ‘Safer Assets’  Vania Fueyo, a Homex investor relations officer in
Culiacan, didn’t respond to a message left at her office or two
e-mails.  Standard & Poor’s rates Homex BB-, three levels below
investment grade, and Cemex five steps below at B.  Concern the U.S. economic expansion is slowing drove
“capital to safer assets,” said Alejandro Hernandez, who helps
manage about $1.5 billion of debt at Interacciones Casa de Bolsa
SA in Mexico City. “The quality of  U.S. debt  is greater than
Mexican corporate bonds.”  The yield on the U.S. 10-year note fell to a six-month low
of 2.92 percent on June 9, two days after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the economic recovery is
“frustratingly slow.”  The peso rose 0.4 percent to 11.8582 per  U.S. dollar  today.  Manufacturing in the U.S. grew at its slowest pace in more
than in year in May, while the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly
climbed to 9.1 percent.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years widened 1 basis point to 109 today, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in December were unchanged at 5 percent, indicating
traders expect the central bank to raise the rate by then.  Mexico is the only major Latin American nation to keep
 interest rates  unchanged in the past year. Consumer prices fell
0.74 percent in May, the most in 42 years, the central bank said
last week.  Corporate Debt  Demand for Mexican corporate debt will rebound, driving
borrowing costs lower, as signs emerge the U.S. recovery is on
track, said Jack Deino, who oversees about $1.8 billion of
emerging-market debt at Invesco Inc. in New York.  “We are going through a slow patch here, but it’s not a
recession or anything really to worry about,” Deino said in a
telephone interview. “It’s unrealistic to think of it as
straight arrow back up.”  The world’s largest economy will probably recover from
recent weakness in part because a surge in commodity prices, the
earthquake in  Japan  and “severe weather” in the U.S. are
transitory, Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  President William C. Dudley said on June 10 in a speech in  Brooklyn , New York, to
the Caribbean-American Chamber of Commerce and Industry.  “I anticipate that economic growth will pick up enough in
the second half of 2011 to sustain a moderate economic
recovery,” Dudley said.  Mexican corporate bond sales in overseas markets have
tumbled in part on concern growth is slowing, said Miguel Angel Aguayo, a fixed-income analyst at Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB.  Debt offerings in dollars have totaled $10 billion this
year, down 29 percent from the same period in 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Last year a lot of Mexican companies came to market
taking advantage of an increased appetite for riskier assets,”
Aguayo said in a telephone interview from Mexico City. “Markets
have closed a little bit since. Some investors are concerned
about the latest economic figures. The most extremist are even
talking about a double-dip recession.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  