-- 
Oil Falls to a Four-Week Low as China Demand Slows, S&P Cuts Greece Rating

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 
2011-06-13T19:35:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/crude-declines-in-new-york-advances-in-london-to-boost-spread-to-record.html
Crude oil fell to a four-week low as
fuel demand from  China  slowed and Standard & Poor’s cut  Greece ’s
credit rating to the lowest level held by a country.  Oil dropped 2 percent as government data showed China’s
oil-product consumption fell 4 percent in May and S&P cut Greece
to CCC. The spread between New York-traded WTI crude and
 London ’s Brent widened to $21.80 a barrel as supply disruptions
in the  North Sea  and  Libya  bolstered demand for the European
grade.  “Economic weakness is still the forefront of the market
now,” said Carl Larry, director of energy derivatives and
research with Blue Ocean Brokerage LLC in New York. “Oil also
moved down because of the downgrade.”  Crude for July delivery fell $1.99 to $97.30 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since
May 17. Futures are up 32 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for July delivery gained 32 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $119.10 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European crude was $6.06 more expensive on
average over the past year.  China’s National Development and Reform Commission  said  the
country’s daily consumption of fuels dropped to 650,000 metric
tons in May. China is the world’s second-largest oil consumer
after the U.S.  Product Supplies  Oil-product inventories rebounded “slightly” as of the
end of May from April and rose 1 million tons from a year
earlier, the NDRC said, without giving exact figures.  “Where is the demand?” said  Richard Ilczyszyn , a market
strategist at Lind-Waldock, a broker in  Chicago . “I don’t think
we have a rosy, good picture for the world economy.”  S&P said in a statement that “there is a significantly
higher likelihood of one or more defaults” in Greece.  The downgrade follows Moody’s Investors Service’s decision
this month to grade Greece only one level higher and may
intensify pressure on European governments to stem the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  “The S&P downgrade of Greece sent a shudder through the
markets,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a
New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “Investors
are selling off futures and moving to cash.”  Buzzard Field  Brent climbed as high as $120.25 earlier as maintenance
curbed the flow from the Buzzard field off the British coast and
as a rebellion against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  cut the
country’s oil output by almost 90 percent.  The gain was “because of the loss of Libyan oil and
concerns about the quality of the additional Saudi barrels,”
said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest in
Chicago. “All of the fear premium is in Brent. Here we have
plenty of supply and weak demand.”  The premium of Brent oil over U.S. futures has widened to a
point that can’t be explained by market conditions, making it
too risky to trade, according to consultants Petromatrix GmbH in
Zug,  Switzerland .  Equipment problems and planned maintenance are expected to
curb production at Buzzard until the end of July, according to
Calgary-based Nexen Inc., the operator of the field.  Libyan rebel forces said they captured the city of Sabha,
in the nation’s southwest, from Qaddafi’s troops.  The Libyan revolt, which began in February, has reduced the
availability of light, sweet crude, or oil with low density and
sulfur content.  Cushing Supply  Oil supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
the New York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade, rose to 41.9
million barrels in the week ended April 8, the highest level
since at least 2004, when the Energy Department began tracking
stockpiles at the hub. Inventories fell 1.02 million barrels to
38.9 million in the week ended June 3, the department said.  “WTI has become a false marker,” said  Stephen Schork ,
president of the Villanova, Pennsylvania-based Schork Group Inc.
“Supplies are flush in the U.S. Brent is more of an indicator
of global supply and demand fundamentals.”  Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s Nigerian unit has declared force
majeure on Bonny Light oil loadings for this month and July
because of multiple fires on the Trans Niger pipeline, the
company said in an e-mailed statement.  Shell originally planned to ship 243,333 barrels a day of
Bonny Light in June and 204,839 barrels a day next month,
according to loading programs obtained by Bloomberg News.  Force Majeure  Force majeure is a legal clause allowing companies to miss
deliveries because of circumstances beyond their control.  Nigeria is the fifth-largest oil exporter to the U.S.,
shipping 840,000 barrels a day of crude in March, according to
 the Energy Department .  Hedge funds  and other large speculators reduced wagers on
rising oil prices oil by 15 percent to 190,974 in the week ended
June 7, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
weekly Commitments of Traders report.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 673,735
contracts as of 2:49 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 816,977 on
June 10, 24 percent above the average of the past three months.
Open interest was 1.55 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  