-- 
Mavericks, Dirk Nowitzki Claim 1st NBA Title by Denying Heat, LeBron James

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-06-13T04:27:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/dallas-mavericks-defeat-miami-heat-105-95-to-win-first-nba-championship.html
Dirk Nowitzki and the  Dallas
Mavericks  won their first National Basketball Association
championship and left  LeBron James  still searching for a title.  Nowitzki scored 18 of his 21 points in the second half as
the Mavericks beat the Miami Heat 105-95 last night in Miami.
Jason Terry added 27 points off the bench for Dallas, which took
the best-of-seven NBA Finals four games to two.  It’s the first title for the 7-foot Nowitzki, a 10-time
All-Star from  Germany  who has spent his entire 13-year NBA
career with the Mavericks. He and Terry were the only remaining
players from the Dallas team that lost to Miami in the 2006 NBA
Finals.  “This is a phenomenal thing for the city of Dallas,”
Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle said after the trophy presentation
ceremony. “And  Dirk Nowitzki  is one of the very greatest
players in the history of this game. That has been validated
here.”  James was denied a title in his first season with Miami,
which was listed by oddsmakers as championship favorites after
adding James and  Chris Bosh  as free agents during the offseason
to team with fellow All-Star  Dwyane Wade . James scored 21 points
to lead the Heat last night, while Bosh had 19.  “We struggled at times. Sometimes we looked good
offensively, other times we looked out of rhythm and a little
out of character,” Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said at a news
conference. “I think a little of that is the competition.”  NBA Finals MVP  Nowitzki, who missed 11 of 12 shots in the first half last
night, scored 10 points in the fourth quarter and was chosen
Most Valuable Player of the finals.  “If you’re in this league for 13 years and just battling
and always just coming up a little short, that’s why this is
extra special,” the 32-year-old Nowitzki said.  Mavericks guard Jason Kidd, 38, also got the first title of
his 17-year career, after having lost his two previous Finals
appearances with the  New Jersey Nets . Mavericks billionaire
owner  Mark Cuban , who bought the franchise in 2000, watched his
team make 11 straight playoff appearances without a title until
yesterday.  “The whole world was telling us that we were one-and-done
boys, that we were going to get knocked out in the first
round,” Cuban said after receiving the championship trophy from
NBA Commissioner David Stern. “This team has so much heart and
so much determination.”  Scoring Runs  The Mavericks led 53-51 at halftime after a series of
scoring runs by both teams over the first 24 minutes.  Miami jumped out to a 22-15 lead. Dallas responded with a
17-5 scoring run after Nowitzki picked up his second foul and
went to the bench.  The Mavericks scored eight of the first nine points in the
second quarter to open a 40-28 lead. The Heat then went on a 14-
0 run to go back in front with 6:25 left in the half.  As the Mavericks called a timeout, a skirmish broke out
when DeShawn Stevenson of  Dallas  pushed Miami’s Udonis Haslem,
who was walking off the court with his hand raised. Mario Chalmers of the Heat ran over and confronted Stevenson as
players from both teams met at midcourt. Technical fouls were
called on Haslem, Chalmers and Stevenson.  While Nowitzki had three points in the first half, Dallas
took a lead into the break on the strength of Terry’s 19 points
off the bench.  After Miami briefly regained the lead early in the third
quarter, the Mavericks went back in front for good.  Nowitzki’s 3-Pointer  Nowitzki hit his lone 3-pointer of the game with 5:07 left
in the third quarter to give Dallas a 71-65 lead. The Mavericks
took a nine-point lead into the final quarter when Ian Mahinmi
hit a jumper as the third quarter ended -- his second basket of
the Finals -- to put Dallas up 81-72.  The Mavericks extended their advantage to 89-77 with 8:21
left -- matching their largest lead of the game -- as J.J. Barea
hit a driving layup after James missed a short jumper off the
backboard on the other end.  James finished with six of the 16 turnovers for the Heat,
who never got closer than seven points the rest of the way.
Chalmers had 18 points for the Heat and Wade finished with 17.  “Jason came up to me in the fourth quarter and he said,
‘Keep pushing, remember ‘06,’’’ said Nowitzki, who lost to the
Heat in six games that year.  Dallas won seven of its final eight road playoff games and
dealt Miami its only two home losses of the postseason. The
Mavericks hit 11 of 26 3-point attempts last night.  ‘‘I said it all season long, we had great chemistry with
the guys, we had fun in the locker room,’’ said Nowitzki, who
added 11 rebounds. ‘‘This is a special group and we’re world
champions. It’s unbelievable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  