-- 
Deforestation Credits Achieving Premium Prices, CF Partners Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-06-13T11:39:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/deforestation-credits-achieving-premium-prices-cf-partners-says.html
Carbon credits from projects to halt
deforestation can achieve “premium prices” compared with other
types of voluntary offsets as demand is set to quadruple in the
next three years, according to CF Partners.  Credits are being generated from forestry projects such as
 Wildlife Works Carbon LLC’s  Kasigau Corridor in  Kenya  and
Infinite Earth’s Rimba Raya project in  Indonesia . Both are
registered under a program known as Reducing Emissions from
Deforestation and Forest Degradation, or REDD. The credits can
be used by companies wishing to offset emissions voluntarily.  “For specific buyers, REDD is at the top of the list,
viewed as potentially the most sustainable voluntary credit out
there,” John Davis, a specialist in originating and selling
credits at London-based CF Partners, said in a telephone
interview. These factors are “driving premium pricing relative
to similar credits,” he added.  Tropical forests about the size of  Greece  are disappearing
each year, according to the  United Nations . That’s equivalent to
releasing 6 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide. Saving
forests cuts greenhouse-gas emissions and can generate voluntary
credits that companies buy to help improve their reputation for
environmental responsibility.  PPR SA, a Paris-based luxury goods-company whose brands
include Puma and British label  Alexander McQueen , said it had
bought REDD credits.  Transactions Rose  Demand for offsets may soar to 1,200 million metric tons by
2020, eight times that of last year, according to an  annual
report  published June 2 by Ecosystems Marketplace and Bloomberg
New Energy Finance.  Voluntary-credit transactions totaled 131.2 million tons in
2010, a rise of 34 percent from the previous year, according to
the report. The market may grow to 400 million tons by 2012 and
800 million by 2015, the report said.  CF Partners, a carbon investment and advisory firm, is
working with forestry specialists in  South America  and  Africa  to
attract investors for REDD projects, Davis said. There is a
“convergence of views” among project developers and offset
buyers “toward strong forward prices,” he said.  Current prices for REDD credits are $6 to $8 a ton for
parcels of more than 100,000 tons, and above $10 a ton for
volumes of 10,000 tons or less, he said. The average price for
REDD credits in 2010 was $5 a ton, according to Ecosystems
Marketplace and Bloomberg New Energy Finance data.  Robust Demand  “There is robust underlying demand for REDD credits as a
high-quality offset,” Davis said. REDD credits often appeal to
consumer businesses such as supermarkets and sporting goods
brands, he said.  Forestry credits were excluded from the 1997  Kyoto
Protocol , and a UN meeting in Durban,  South Africa , in December
will consider ways of using forests as part of a new climate
treaty.  REDD accounted for 29 percent of all credits sold in the
voluntary market in 2010, according to the annual report. The
trade for REDD credits has grown even though they are not yet
accepted in the EU or any mandatory-compliance system.  Investors are “taking faith in the fact that forests are
so important that any compliance schemes that exist ultimately
would take these credits,” Zubair Zakir, head of carbon
sourcing for The CarbonNeutral Co., said in the report. “And if
not a compliance scheme, there will be other investments
available.”  California has said its carbon cap-and-trade program likely
will accept such credits from Mexico and  Brazil .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  