-- 
Dollar’s Advance May Be Short-Lived, Citigroup’s Englander Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-06-13T18:38:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/dollar-s-gains-in-past-week-may-be-short-lived-englander-says-tom-keene.html
The dollar’s gains over the past
week may be short-lived amid a longer-term decline in the U.S.
currency, according to Citigroup Inc.’s Steven Englander.  “There are still too many dollars out there, and the
policy structure still favors a weaker dollar, and the policy
intent still favors a weaker dollar,” Englander, head of Group-
of-10 currency strategy at in  New York , said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with Tom Keene.
“But we still do have to get through a correction before we
move back into the longer-term trend.”  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, had its first weekly gain in a month in the
five days ended June 10, advancing 1.4 percent. It traded 0.4
percent lower today in its first loss in four days.  The gauge has lost 5.8 percent this year as the  Federal
Reserve  has kept interest rates in a record-low range of zero to
0.25 percent and traders have sought higher-yielding assets.  The U.S. currency had its first five-day increase in a
month against the euro last week, rising 2 percent, its biggest
jump since May 6. The dollar fell 0.5 percent today against the
shared currency to $1.4415 before a report tomorrow forecast to
show U.S. retail sales declined in May.  Traders are still betting against the dollar as net bets
the currency will fall against the euro, yen, pound, Australian
dollar, Canadian dollar and Swiss franc rose for a second week
and reached 163,309 in the five days ended June 7, according to
Commodity Futures Trading Commission figures released June 10
and data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I’m more bullish-dollar and bearish-euro than I have been
in the near-term,” Englander said. “We have to get through the
divergences between what we’re seeing in positions which seem to
be long risk, economic data which is increasingly negative and
pricing which still seems to reflect optimism in the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  