-- 
Dubai Meets Investors in London on $5 Billion Bond Plan as Yields Decline

-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-06-13T09:16:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/dubai-meets-investors-in-london-on-5-billion-bond-plan-as-yields-decline.html
Dubai is meeting investors in  London 
today ahead of a planned sale of 10-year bonds that will have a
put option after five years, according to three bankers familiar
with the deal.  The Persian Gulf emirate will issue the notes as part of a
$5 billion bond program and will use proceeds for construction
spending and to fund the sheikhdom’s budget, according to a
prospectus. Yields on Dubai’s $1.25 billion of sukuk bonds due
in 2014 fell to 4.78 percent today, from as high as 6.69 percent
on Jan. 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield
dropped to 4.573 percent on June 1, the lowest since their sale
in October 2009.  “Investors are all the more comfortable with Dubai risk,”
Rawad Hakme, co-manager of fixed income allocation at Dubai-
based unit of Egyptian investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE
said in an e-mail today.  The bonds may be priced on June 15 or 16, said one of the
bankers, who declined to be identified before the deal is
completed. A  put option  gives investors the right to sell the
bonds back to the government.  Bond market   Dubai is returning to the bond market for the first time in
eight months after state-owned Emirates, the world’s biggest
airline by international traffic, raised $1 billion from the
sale of five-year bonds June 1. International Petroleum
Investment Co., the company controlled by  Abu Dhabi ’s
government, will also meet investors in London this week as part
of a “non-deal investor roadshow” after the company raised
$4.4 billion from bond sales in March to fund an acquisition.  “There is likely to be solid demand for such a deal,”
Chavan Bhogaita, head of the markets strategy group at state-
controlled  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) , said in an e-mail
yesterday. “There has been a marked improvement in investor
sentiment toward the Dubai credit story recently and credit-
default swap spreads demonstrate this very clearly.”  On June 2, Dubai’s credit default swaps fell to the lowest
level since Nov. 24, 2009. They surged to 655 on Nov. 27 after
state-owned Dubai World announced plans to restructure about $25
billion of debt. The swaps climbed 4 basis points to 328 on June
10, according to data provider CMA, which compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Deficit  Dubai’s budget gap is set to narrow to 3.8 billion dirhams
($1 billion) this year, the lowest level since 2007, according
to the bond prospectus. The joint book-runners for the U.S.
dollar bond offering are  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , according to a
statement from the government’s media office yesterday.  The emirate plans to sell a “benchmark-sized” bond, three
bankers familiar with the deal said June 9. Benchmark bonds
typically raise at least $500 million. A sale raising $750
million to $1 billion is “achievable,” Bhogaita at NBAD said.  Dubai and its companies ran up debt of at least $129.3
billion, according to estimates by analysts at Credit Suisse
Group AG, as the emirate borrowed to develop its property,
tourism, trade and financial-services industries.  The government raised $1.25 billion in September in its
first sovereign debt issue since the state-owned Dubai World
sought a delay on debt payments. The bonds generated orders
valued at about $5 billion, the government said then.  Yield  Dubai sold a $500 million note due 2015 at a yield of 6.7
percent and $750 million of 2020 bonds to yield 7.75 percent.
The 2015 yield declined to 5.14 percent on May 19 and was last
at 5.27 percent, according to Bloomberg data. The 2020 yield
sank to 6.72 percent on June 1 and was last at 6.84 percent.  Dubai, the second-biggest of the seven sheikhdoms that make
up the  United Arab Emirates , had to seek help from neighboring
Abu Dhabi after the global credit crisis pushed property prices
down by more than half from their peak in 2008, and frozen
credit markets forced some state-owned companies to delay loan
payments. State-owned Dubai World signed a final agreement with
its creditors in March to restructure debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net 
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  