-- 
Heathrow Passenger Total Jumps on BRIC Routes, Royal Wedding

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-06-13T13:28:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/heathrow-passenger-total-jumps-on-bric-routes-royal-wedding-1-.html
London Heathrow airport’s passenger
total jumped 11.6 percent to 5.9 million in May and the 12-month
figure breached 68 million for the first time, spurred by routes
to emerging markets and visitors for Britain’s royal wedding.  Numbers rose 82 percent last month on flights to  Brazil ,
where British Airways added a dedicated service to  Sao Paulo  in
March, with Russia posting a 19 percent gain, Heathrow owner BAA
Ltd. said. The April 29 wedding of  Prince William , second in
line to the British throne, lifted traffic as people flew home.  Passenger numbers at BAA’s six U.K. airports rose 9.2
percent last month versus a year earlier, when hundreds of
flights were canceled after a volcanic blowout in Iceland and
strikes at BA, the company said in a statement today. A fresh
eruption last month didn’t close Heathrow, while Edinburgh,
which did shut temporarily, still posted a record spring total.  “Demand is particularly strong on the long-haul routes that
connect U.K. businesses to fast-growing economies around the
world,” BAA Chief Executive Officer Colin Matthews said today.  Heathrow,  Europe ’s busiest hub, also reaped a 9.5 percent
increase in traffic to  China  and a 5.4 percent gain to  India ,
aided by people transiting to onward destinations, BAA said.
Nick Cullen, the airport’s chief operating officer since
February 2010, has resigned, it added, without saying why.  Stansted Boost  Passenger numbers at London Stansted, dominated by budget
carriers such as  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , showed the first back-to-
back monthly advance since October 2007, with tourist travel
lifted by return trips from the Easter holidays, which fell in
late April, in addition to the royal nuptials. Still, volumes
there are down 4 percent for the year to date as discount
carriers shift flights to continental Europe, BAA said.  Excluding the impact of last year’s volcanic ash cloud,
Heathrow passenger numbers rose 5.2 percent in May and added 2.7
percent over the first five months. For the group as a whole,
underlying growth stands at 1.7 percent in 2011, BAA said.  This year’s eruption “led only to a marginal decrease in
traffic,” said BAA, a unit of Spanish construction group
 Ferrovial SA. (FER)  While the ash grounded hundreds of flights at
European airports including BAA’s Edinburgh and Glasgow
terminals, last year’s event halted more than 100,000.  Heathrow COO Cullen will be replaced by Technical Standards
and Assurance Director Terry Morgan until a permanent
appointment is made, BAA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  