-- 
Lebanon’s Mikati Forms New Cabinet With Hezbollah Support

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-06-13T20:20:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/lebanon-s-mikati-forms-new-cabinet-with-hezbollah-support.html
Lebanese billionaire  Najib Mikati ,
the prime minister tasked with forming a government after the
January collapse of Saad Hariri’s coalition, announced the
formation of his Cabinet today.  The majority of the new Cabinet comes from the Hezbollah-
led March 8 coalition, according to the the Lebanese newspaper,
The  Daily Star . The previous government fell amid a dispute with
the Shiite Muslim Hezbollah movement over the United Nations
inquiry into the killing of former Prime Minister  Rafiq Hariri ,
Saad’s father.  “We hope that this government will win your confidence and
the confidence of your representatives in parliament,” Mikati
told reporters today in Beirut.  Rafiq Hariri was killed along with 22 others by a roadside
bomb in  Beirut  in 2005. The country has since witnessed at least
seven political assassinations, a monthlong war between Israel
and Hezbollah in 2006 and civil unrest three years ago in which
about 80 people died.  The wrangling over Lebanon’s involvement in the tribunal
threatens a return to sectarian violence in a country that
emerged from a  15-year civil war  in 1990. Mikati got support
from Hezbollah and its allies. His opponents say he will yield
to their demands to disavow the UN tribunal.  Cabinet Members  The new Cabinet includes Mohammad Safadi as finance
minister and Fayez Ghosn as defense minister. Among the other
appointments, Marwan Charbel was named interior minister and
Samir Moqbel deputy prime minister, while Gibran Bassil retains
his position as minister of energy and water.  After the announcement, State Minister Talal Arslan, a
Druze leader, said in a news conference that he was resigning
from the new government. He said he has no confidence that
Mikati can lead the government. He said Mikati should have given
Druze representatives a higher level post, the  Associated Press 
reported.  Hariri and his pro-Western Future Movement have said they
were betrayed in the way Mikati came to power and won’t take
part in an administration headed by anyone backed by Hezbollah
and its allies.  “I have a friendship with Hezbollah and I also have
contacts outside of Lebanon, but it doesn’t mean I follow
anyone’s agenda,” Mikati said in a January 27 interview at his
Beirut office. “My own agenda is going to be followed and that
agenda is to maintain very good relations with the international
community, and Lebanon has to fulfill its commitments.”  Hezbollah Role  Mikati was confirmed as premier by President Michel Suleiman after winning the backing of lawmakers in January. The
formation of the Cabinet was delayed by political bickering over
cabinet portfolios.  Hezbollah brought down the government on Jan. 12 as it
sought to halt the UN investigation. It alleges the  tribunal  was
instigated by the U.S. and  Israel  to target the group, along
with  Syria , which supports Hezbollah.  An indictment filed in January by the UN prosecutor is
being reviewed by a court in the Netherlands. Hezbollah’s
leader,  Hassan Nasrallah , has said since July he expects the
judge to indict some of his members. Both Hezbollah and Syria
have denied any involvement in Hariri’s death.  Mohammed Raad, the head of Hezbollah’s 12-member bloc in
parliament, said after meeting Mikati in January that the Shiite
organization hadn’t made any demands on the prime minister or
imposed any conditions on him regarding the tribunal.  Mikati’s Business  The U.S. and Israel classify Hezbollah as a terrorist
organization.  Mikati, who served as a caretaker premier in 2005, is a
graduate of the  American University of Beirut . The 6-foot-4-inch
entrepreneur founded Investcom, which runs phone networks in
emerging markets, with his brother  Taha  in 1982.  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ,
 Africa ’s largest mobile-phone operator, bought the company in
2006 for $5.5 billion.  The brothers, from the northern port city of Tripoli, run
 M1 Group , a company whose holdings include real estate
investments in the U.S.,  Europe  and the  Middle East , as well as
the Geneva-based  Baboo  airline and French retailer  Faconnable .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon, at 
Or  mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  