-- 
EBay Settles Investor Suits Over GSI Commerce Purchase

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 
2011-06-13T21:37:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/ebay-gsi-commerce-report-settlement-of-claims-in-court-case.html
(Corrects total amount of settlement in first paragraph.)  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , owner of the largest e-
commerce market, agreed to pay about $24 million to resolve
investor lawsuits over its $2.4 billion acquisition of online
marketing firm GSI Commerce Inc.  GSI shareholders will receive 33 cents a share in addition
to EBay’s $29.25-a-share offer under the settlement, the
companies said today in a statement. Investors will get the
settlement money when the acquisition closes, which is expected
on June 17, the companies said.  EBay Chief Executive Officer John Donahoe, two years into a
three-year campaign to revive sales growth amid competition from
Amazon.com Inc., said GSI will help him better connect buyers
and sellers when he announced the transaction in March. GSI,
based in  King of Prussia , Pennsylvania, has long-term commerce-
services relationships with retailers and brands, EBay said.  GSI provides e-commerce and marketing services to over
2,000 brands such as Toys “R” Us, the  National Football League 
and Polo Ralph Lauren, according to court filings.  As part of the transaction, EBay will divest all of GSI’s
licensed sports-merchandise business, which provides e-commerce
operations for all the major U.S. sports including the NFL, and
70 percent of online-retail sites Rue La La and ShopRunner,
court papers show.  EBay officials said they were selling those assets to NRG
Commerce LLC, a company set up by GSI Chief Executive Officer
Michael Rubin, because they aren’t part of its core long-term
growth strategy.  Investors Shortchanged?  Some GSI shareholders, including the Erie County Employees
Retirement system, a pension fund, and the Southeastern
 Pennsylvania  Transportation Authority, which operates trains and
buses in the Philadelphia area, filed suit in Delaware Chancery
Court earlier this year to challenge the buyout.  Disgruntled GSI investors contend the company’s board sold
the marketing firm too cheaply and loaded the deal with terms
that favored EBay’s bid.  GSI shareholders were set to ask Judge John Noble to block
the deal at a hearing on Friday. The hearing was canceled
without explanation. Noble still must decide whether to give
final approval to the settlement.  GSI rose 26 cents, or almost 1 percent, to $29.54 at 4:29
p.m.  New York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock
soared 51 percent on March 28, the day EBay announced the
takeover. EBay, based in  San Jose ,  California , fell 10 cents to
$29.86 in Nasdaq trading.  The case is In RE  GSI Commerce Inc. (GSIC)  Shareholder Litigation,
CA 6346, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net .
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 