-- 
LeBron James’s Business Results Fare Better Than Heat’s Basketball Finish

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-06-13T15:39:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/lebron-s-business-results-fare-better-than-basketball-finish.html
LeBron James , love him or loathe
him, has proven good for the business of basketball.  “LeBron has been a lightning rod for criticism,” said his
coach, Erik Spoelstra of the  Miami Heat , whose season ended last
night with a Game 6 loss to the  Dallas Mavericks  in the National
Basketball Association Finals.  James became the target of derision almost a year ago, when
the two-time NBA Most Valuable Player appeared on national
television to announce that he was leaving the  Cleveland
Cavaliers  to join fellow All-Stars  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh 
with the Heat. The hour-long special, in which James said he was
“taking my talents to South Beach,” drew ESPN’s highest rating
for any non-National Football League program, the network said
at the time.  Since then a number of season-long metrics, including
television ratings, attendance and merchandise sales, show that
James, 26, bolstered the bottom line of not only the Heat but
the rest of the NBA, too.  “LeBron and the Heat, as a team to hate, certainly were
helpful to the NBA product,” said former Madison Square Garden
President Bob Gutkowski, a partner in the New York-based sports
consulting company Innovative Strategic Management. “LeBron was
very good for the NBA.”  The Heat, owned by billionaire Carnival Corp. Chairman
Micky Arison, averaged a capacity 19,778 fans at home this
season, 2,048 better than a year ago. James and the Heat drew a
league-high 19,447 fans on the road, allowing the league’s 29
other clubs to reap more revenue from tickets, parking and
concessions.  The Heat and Kobe Bryant-led  Los Angeles Lakers , who won
the 2009 and 2010 championships, were the only clubs to average
better than 19,000 fans on the road this season.  Jersey Sales  As for merchandise sales, James had the top-selling jersey
in the league for the first time since 2004, when he completed
his rookie season.  James moved past Bryant for the top spot, which was
occupied by Wade in 2005 and 2006, the year the Heat beat the
Mavericks in the NBA Finals. Wade ranked sixth in sales this
season.  The Lakers had the top-selling gear in the league for the
eighth time in nine years. They were followed by the  Boston
Celtics , the Heat and the  New York Knicks .  The addition of James prompted the NBA’s broadcast
partners,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC and ESPN and Time Warner Inc.’s
TNT, to show the Heat the maximum number of times this season,
providing wider exposure for team sponsors such as  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s
 American Airlines .  James’s Critics  James took aim at his critics after the final loss, saying
it didn’t bother him that so many were overjoyed at his failing
to win the championship.  “All the people that was rooting on me to fail, at the end
of the day they have to wake up and have the same life that they
had before,” James, who has a six-year, $110 million contract,
said at a press conference. “They have the same personal
problems. I’m going to continue to live the way I want to
live.”  Game 6 drew a 15 rating on ABC in the biggest U.S. markets,
the highest in 11 years and the best-rated program of the
evening on any outlet, according to  Nielsen Media Research 
figures released by ESPN. It was 22 percent higher than last
year’s Game 6 between the Celtics and Lakers, and 35 percent
higher than the last game of the 2006 Finals before the
Mavericks and the Heat.  Through four games the network said the series had averaged
15.5 million viewers, the most-watched NBA championship in seven
years. The four-game average was a 30 percent increase of the
previous Mavericks-Heat Finals and up slightly from last
season’s matchup between the Lakers and Celtics, two of the
marquee brands in sports.  “LeBron brings in viewers that aren’t necessarily
basketball fans,” Gutkowski said. “He’s been nothing but
positive.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  