-- 
LeBron James Doesn’t Deserve the Hate: Harlan Coben

-- B y   H a r l a n   C o b e n
-- 
2011-06-13T21:47:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/lebron-in-defeat-doesn-t-deserve-the-hate-commentary-by-harlan-coben.html
Ah, comeuppance. How we love it.
Sure, we hate the  Miami Heat , but we hold a special dark place
for LeBron James. He backstabbed. He bragged. He sought to stack
the deck to win a championship -- and bang, it all backfired.
How delicious.  But the lasting, deep hatred of James is uncalled for and
unjustified. Sure, we love our villains in sports. If you’re a
Boston Red Sox fan, you hate the  New York  Yankees. Cheer for the
 Washington Redskins , and you just love to see the  Dallas Cowboys 
humiliated.  Dallas Mavericks fans certainly had reason to revel
in the Heat’s dismay after the Mavericks’ Game 6 victory
yesterday, clinching the National Basketball Association title.  But since “The Decision” to leave the  Cleveland
Cavaliers , the derision for the basketball star is something
deeper. Why? He has been in the limelight since his freshman
year of high school, when he was barely 15 years old. For a
superstar of his magnitude, he has been engaging, classy,
polite, interesting, thoughtful, open.  He has never been accused of a crime -- no drunken driving,
no assault, no abusing a girlfriend, no groping, no rape, no
slurs. Considering the temptations that have surrounded him, the
fact that his biggest scandal before departing Cleveland was
wearing a Yankees hat to an Indians game, James has been
extraordinary and exemplary in his behavior.  So what did he do wrong?  He handled free agency poorly, I guess. But it was a no-win
situation. James was attacked for the way he let other teams
court him. Instead of James visiting the various cities, the
owners of the Knicks, Nets, Bulls, Mavericks and Clippers had to
come to  Cleveland  to present to him. Gasp! What hubris, the
columnists said. But was it?  Could you imagine the reaction if James had decided to tour
New York, for example? You would have the politicians and glad-
handers crawling out from every crevice to wine him and dine him
and present him with keys to the city. There would be traffic
jams and accusations of special treatment and all that other
sideshow noise.  No-win.  And when James ultimately chose to go to Miami, what did
the columnists scream? He couldn’t win on his own, so he teamed
up with other superstars. What a coward! Michael Jordan would
have never done that. Well, we don’t know what  Michael Jordan 
would or wouldn’t have done in that situation. We know that
 Larry Bird  won his championships with teammates like Robert Parish, Kevin McHale,  Bill Walton , Dennis Johnson and Danny Ainge. We know that  Magic Johnson  played alongside Bob McAdoo,
James Worthy,  Byron Scott , Michael Cooper and, let’s not forget,
 Kareem Abdul-Jabbar , the greatest scoring center in the history
of basketball.  Should James want less?  And suppose he had. If James had chosen the opposite --
playing with less-talented teammates -- the columnists would
have called him an egomaniac who cared only about individual
stats.  The fact that he was willing to sacrifice money and
scoring statistics for titles in Miami was somehow looked upon
as selfish.  No-win.  As for taking interviews with other teams that he may or
may not have had serious interest in playing for, well, what’s
wrong with that? If a friend is being recruited by various
companies in various cities, do you fault him for hearing all
parties out? Do you fault him for choosing a new company if he
believes it will make him happier or more fulfilled? Of course
not. So why not do the same for James?  No-win.  The naysayers will, of course, correctly point out the
stupefying idiocy of “The Decision” TV special and the over-
the-top, preening Heat pep rally that followed. Yes, James
should take a hit for the first one. A 25-year-old made a bad
decision on “The Decision” or was given bad advice. As for the
rally, I don’t know what public-relations genius came up with
that peacock-strutting parade, but he or she should be fired. I
doubt it was James’s idea.  Either way, these mistakes don’t rise to the level of the
virulently unforgiveable.  Finally we get to Lebron’s failure to perform in the
clutch.  Funny.  I heard that about  Dirk Nowitzki  for 12-plus
seasons, particularly after 2006 when his Mavericks team blew a
2-0 series lead to the Heat. And I saw a pretty impressive
 LeBron James  take charge in the fourth quarter of these same
playoffs against the Chicago Bulls and  Boston Celtics .  That’s
not to say his fourth-quarter play in the Finals wasn’t
perplexing, but there is more to this criticism than that.  Even more to the point, I dare say that no other player in
the history of the NBA -- not the great Michael Jordan, not even
 Kobe Bryant   when he was accused of rape -- had to deal with the
venomous ill-will and malicious pressure put upon James this
season. He put on a brave face, but you could see the
bewilderment. He changed teams and went from one of the game’s
most beloved figures to the most vilified. When you look at the
why, it was really unjustified. It had to stun. It had to hurt,
and yes, it had an effect on his game. That, too, doesn’t make
James a bad person. If anything it shows that he’s human and the
cruel words did wound.  No-win.  Our hatred of James says something about us as much as it
does about him. And that something is not really very nice. Face
it, James is now 26. Remember what you were like in your mid-
twenties? Yet we act like the strictest and most withholding of
parents.  I’m all for taking athletes down a peg when they deserve
it. But please, let the punishment fit the crime. What James did
is worthy of an eye-roll and some criticism, sure, but not
universal, eternal condemnation. Let’s step back and out of
ourselves, and appreciate him for what he is -- a great, if not
yet legendary, player.  (Harlan Coben is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns.   To contact the writer of this column:
 hcoben@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  