-- 
LeBron James Still Seeking NBA Title After Miami Heat’s Defeat by Dallas

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-06-13T05:02:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/lebron-james-still-seeking-nba-title-after-miami-heat-s-defeat-by-dallas.html
LeBron James  went to Miami for the
chance to win a National Basketball Association championship.
After one season with the Heat, he’s still without one.  James and the Heat lost to Dallas 105-95 last night in
Miami, where  Dirk Nowitzki ,  Mark Cuban  and the Mavericks
celebrated their first NBA title.  James, a two-time Most Valuable Player who has a tattoo on
his back that reads “Chosen 1,” promised multiple
championships in Miami before his first practice with his new
team. After failing to deliver a title, James said his debut
season with the Heat was ultimately a disappointment.  “Any time you get to the top of the mountain and you fall
off, it’s definitely a personal failure,” James, 26, said
during a news conference. “It was a failure in ‘07 when we lost
to the Spurs when I was in  Cleveland . It’s a failure for myself
now losing to the Mavericks.”  James led the Heat with 21 points last night, including
seven in the fourth quarter. James had totaled 11 points in the
fourth quarter of the first five games of the NBA Finals and was
questioned in the media for a lack of assertiveness.  “LeBron has been a lightning rod for a lot of criticism,”
Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. “He has made a tremendous
sacrifice to come here and he’s been an ultimate team player.
Sometimes there’s no excuses, no blame. Sometimes you just
simply come up short.”  ‘No Shortcuts’  Cleveland Cavaliers owner  Dan Gilbert , who was fined
$100,000 by the NBA during the offseason for his negative
comments about James joining the Heat, again took a jab at his
former player after last night’s game.  “Old Lesson for all: There are NO SHORTCUTS. NONE,”
Gilbert wrote on his Twitter page, while offering
congratulations to Cuban and the Mavericks.  James spent his first seven seasons in Cleveland before
announcing last July 8 -- in a nationally televised ESPN show
called “The Decision” -- that he’d be taking his talents to
 South Beach . James said he was drawn to Miami by  Dwyane Wade  and
 Chris Bosh , and the confidence that the All-Star trio could win
the championship that eluded him in Cleveland.  James and the Cavaliers were swept by the  San Antonio Spurs 
in the 2007 NBA Finals.  Las Vegas oddsmakers dropped Miami’s odds of winning the
NBA title to 4-5 after James’s announcement.  The Heat entered the postseason as the second favorite
behind the defending champion  Los Angeles Lakers , while the
Mavericks were eighth out of 16 playoff teams with 18-1 odds.
Dallas eliminated the Lakers in the second round of the
playoffs.  Use as Motivation  After opening a 2-1 lead in the best-of-seven finals, the
Heat lost three straight, including last night’s game at home.  “We’ll think about how close an opportunity we had, it’ll
burn inside us as competitors,” Wade said. “Our goal was to
win a championship. We weren’t able to accomplish that in year
one, but we’ll use this as motivation and try to get back and do
it again.”  James credited the Mavericks’ defense for limiting him
offensively in the Finals and said the criticism he faced didn’t
have an effect. James had six of Miami’s 16 turnovers last night
and hit one of four free throw attempts.  “The only thing that weighs on me is when I don’t perform
well for my teammates. That’s it,” James said.  Amid the Mavericks’ celebration,  Dallas  point guard Jason Kidd promised the Heat would be back to challenge for a title.
James, like Wade, said he would use the failure as motivation.  “I got close,” James said. “Won two more games than I
did in ‘07.  Hopefully the next time I get here, I win two more
games.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 