-- 
ECB’s Weidmann Says Any Investor Help for Greece Bailout Must Be Voluntary

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 
2011-06-13T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/ecb-s-weidmann-favors-voluntary-investor-help-sueddeutsche-zeitung-says.html
European Central Bank council member
Jens Weidmann said any private-sector involvement in a second
Greek bailout must be voluntary,  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  reported,
citing a guest commentary.  “Participation of private investors is basically sensible
and right” and “there can’t be any objection to a voluntary
extension of maturities” on Greek bonds, Weidmann wrote in the
commentary. “But it remains to be seen how obliging the
investors will actually be,” he said, adding: “if a maturity
extension is forced upon investors, the risks are significantly
greater than the possible benefits. Then a  credit event  would be
unleashed, which would pose great risks for financial
stability.”  Weidmann, who also heads  Germany ’s Bundesbank, said it’s up
to governments to fix the problem and the ECB cannot take on any
more risk, Sueddeutsche Zeitung reported.  “If additional tasks and financial risks are continuously
heaped upon monetary policy, this can endanger its purpose,
namely securing  price stability ,” he said. “It’s important now
for monetary policy that the risks already taken are reduced and
absolutely not increased, so that credibility is not put at
stake.”  Weidmann said private ownership of Greek sovereign bonds is
“no longer as high as often supposed.” He also said
governments can’t assume that euro-area central banks “will
approve of maturity extensions for the bonds in their possession
or accept as collateral bonds from states that are rated
insolvent,” Sueddeutsche reported.  Weidmann said any further aid for  Greece  must be sufficient
to cover the needs of the country’s banking sector, according to
the newspaper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  