-- 
ECB Stance on Greece Means Higher Debt Costs for Italy, Spain: Euro Credit

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-06-13T07:31:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/ecb-stance-on-greece-means-higher-debt-costs-for-italy-spain-euro-credit.html
European Central Bank President
Jean-Claude Trichet’s spat with German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  over Greece threatens to boost yields for the region’s
high-deficit nations as they peddle debt this week.  Trichet urged European Union leaders on June 9 to reject
Schaeuble’s call for private investors to assume a
“substantial” part of the latest Greek aid package. The
remarks signal how divided policymakers remain on how to shore
up Greece and stop contagion that will weigh on debt sales this
week by  Italy ,  Spain  and  Portugal .  “Debt managers and finance ministers in Italy, Portugal
and Spain may not be pleased with the pressure that Trichet’s
words put on their funding costs,” said Toby Nangle, who helps
oversee $53 billion as director of  asset allocation  at Baring
Asset Management in  London .  A year after a 110 billion-euro ($158 billion) bailout,
Greece remains shut out of financial markets and needs a new
lifeline to cover a funding gap of about 90 billion euros in the
next three years. The yield premium that investors demand to
hold Italian 10-year bonds rather than German bunds reached a
six-month high of 187 basis points today. Spain’s risk premium
rose to 258 basis points, the most since Jan. 10, and Portugal’s
spread jumped to a euro-era record 749 basis points.  Auction Calendar  Italy sells 3.5 billion euros of five-year bonds tomorrow,
when Spain auctions 12- and 18-month bills and Greece markets
six-month notes. Portugal follows on June 15 with a bill sale
before Spain returns the next day with bonds due 2019 and 2026.  The auctions come a week before EU finance ministers gather
in Luxembourg on June 20 to hammer out a deal on Greece that
they have pledged to present to heads of state at a summit on
June 23-24. An agreement is critical to Greece’s solvency as the
 International Monetary Fund  can’t pay its share of a 12 billion-
euro bailout payment in July unless a plan is in place to plug
Greece’s 2012 financing gap of about 30 billion euros.  European governments and the IMF would lend an additional
45 billion euros under the expanded program to run through 2014,
two people with direct knowledge of the talks said. Greece would
raise another 30 billion euros from asset sales with another 30
billion euros coming from convincing bondholders to voluntarily
roll over their debt, the people said.  Schaeuble said last week that investors should also be
asked to extend the maturities on their Greek bonds for seven
years, a move that credit rating companies have said would be a
default. Trichet said any approach that risked a “ credit
event ” would be an “enormous mistake” for the euro region.  ‘Add to Confusion’  Trichet’s remarks “add to confusion over the resolution of
the peripheral debt solution,” said Grant Peterkin, who helps
oversee about $120 billion at Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow.
“Investors may be cautious to take down this inventory when
uncertainty about an agreement is so high.”  Political risks also may undermine investor demand. In
Italy, Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s grip on power and his
ability to slow corruption trials against him may be weakened by
a series of referendums concluding today. Spanish Prime Minister
Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero is facing allegations that regional
governments under the control of his Socialist party may have
hidden debts, jeopardizing the government’s deficit goals.  Portugal, which followed  Greece  and Ireland in seeking a
bailout, has a caretaker government after elections on June 5
failed to give any party an outright majority.  Pedro Passos Coelho , whose Social  Democratic Party  won the most seats in
parliament, is rushing to complete coalition talks so he can
represent the country at the summit next week.  Portuguese Austerity  Passos Coelho’s opposition to the previous administration’s
budget cuts, which were designed to avoid a bailout, toppled
Prime Minister Jose Socrates and led to the election. He now
says he backs the goal of the austerity plan that Socrates was
forced to accept in return for a 78 billion-euro bailout.  “Peripherals will remain on the defensive given continued
political wrangling over how to tackle Greece’s deep-rooted
fiscal problems,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income
strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “This
setting provides a difficult backdrop for Portuguese auctions,
particularly as investors are concerned about the new
government’s commitment to fiscal austerity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  