-- 
Hecla Mining to Pay $263 Million in Superfund Settlement

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-06-13T19:13:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/hecla-mining-to-pay-263-million-in-superfund-settlement-1-.html
Hecla Mining Co. (HL) , the biggest U.S.
silver producer, agreed to pay more than $263 million to settle
one of the nation’s largest Superfund lawsuits after two
decades, according to the Obama administration.  Hecla’s payment, including interest, will be made to the
federal government, the  Coeur d’Alene Indian Tribe  and the state
of  Idaho , resolving claims stemming from waste discharged from
its mining operations, the U.S. Justice Department said today in
an e-mailed statement.  The lawsuit, brought by the American Indian tribe in 1991
and joined by the U.S. five years later, sought money to deal
with water and wildlife damage in northern Idaho. The case was
one of the biggest pursued under the Superfund law, which seeks
to make polluters pay for eliminating environmental hazards.  “This agreement will help pay for the U.S. government’s
clean-up activities, secures natural resource damages and will
restore critical habitats to fish and wildlife in the Coeur
d’Alene River Basin,” Ignacia Moreno, assistant attorney
general for the  Justice Department ’s Environment and Natural
Resources Division, said in a statement.  Melanie Hennessey, a spokeswoman for Coeur D’Alene-based
Hecla, declined to comment.  The Superfund site, known as Bunker Hill, is among the
biggest and most contaminated in the U.S., according to the
Justice Department. The region, once one of the world’s largest
silver-producing districts, was harmed by the release of metals
such as lead and arsenic, according to the department.  Contamination Remains  While the Environmental Protection Agency began cleaning up
the  site  in the 1980s, the area remains contaminated, according
to the administration.  “This settlement means cleanup and mining can now move
forward together in the Silver Valley,” Dennis McLerran, EPA
regional administrator in  Seattle , said in a statement.  The consent decree was filed in the U.S. District Court for
the District of Idaho and is subject to 30 days of public
comment and approval by the federal court, according to the
Justice Department.  Hecla fell 16 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $7.22 at 3:11 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has
slumped 34 percent this year through June 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in  Washington  at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 