-- 
Hedge Funds Target Yankee Stadium Parking-Garage Muni Bonds Near Default

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-06-13T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/hedge-funds-buying-municipal-bonds-stalk-new-yankee-stadium-parking-lots.html
Hedge funds  specializing in
distressed debt are buying municipal bonds backed by parking
lots and garages at the new  Yankee Stadium , which face a payment
default as soon as next year, according to two people familiar
with the purchases.  Monarch Alternative Capital LP and Davidson Kempner Capital
Management LLC are among buyers of the debt, said the people,
who asked not to be named because the investments are private.
Holders could take over the garages, foreclose or force the
operator into bankruptcy in a default, the people said.  “This facility seems meaningfully impaired, but there are
some potential fixes,” said Laurence Gottlieb, chief executive
officer of Fundamental Advisors LP, a private-equity firm in  New
York  that buys municipal debt. “Costs can be reduced and it
could be repositioned for commuter parking.”  The new holders joined a committee of creditors that
includes Nuveen Asset Management and other owners of the $237.6
million of tax-exempt debt sold in 2007, the people said.  Bronx Parking Development Co. issued the bonds through New
York City’s Industrial Development Agency to build three
garages, renovate two others and refurbish six lots near the
50,287-seat stadium.  Bronx Parking’s parent has defaulted on two other projects,
a garage in Rochester, New York, and a senior living center in
Syracuse, according to documents for the stadium parking bonds.
In a debt-workout agreement, the parent’s interest in the
Rochester garage was transferred to the bondholder, according to
the debt-sale documents.  Babe Ruth   Yankee Stadium, home of Major League Baseball’s  New York
Yankees , opened in 2009 across from the original ballpark where
Babe Ruth played, about six miles (10 kilometers) north of
midtown  Manhattan . So far, income from parking is short of
projections and insufficient to cover bond payments because of
competition from public transport and car lots at a nearby mall.  The garages generated $2.4 million in April, 28 percent
less than assumed, according to a May 25  report  available to
bondholders. They hold 9,266 spaces and the average occupancy
has been 43 percent since the Yankees’ home season began March
31, according to bond filings. Self-parking on game days costs
$35, an increase of $12 over last year.  The facility will not have sufficient operating revenue to
make an interest payment on April 1, 2012, based on current
projections, according to  Steven Polivy , an attorney at Akerman
Senterfitt LLP in New York, which represents Bronx Parking. That
payment would need to be made out of the debt service reserve
fund, he said.  ‘No Control’  “BPDC will continue to explore various alternatives to
increase revenues and reduce the operating expenses of the
parking system,” Polivy said in an e-mail. “Bronx Parking has
no control over the transfer and sale of its bonds on the
secondary market.”  William Loewenstein, president of Community Initiatives
Development Corp., a Hudson, New York-based nonprofit
organization that owns Bronx Parking, declined to comment.  Bronx Parking  drew on reserves  to make a $6.9 million bond
payment due April 1. It also has failed to maintain a debt-
service coverage ratio -- cash as a multiple of annual interest
and principal payments -- of 1.15. The current ratio is 0.56,
according to Bronx Parking’s  2011 budget . The next $6.9 million
bond payment is due Oct. 1.  Creditors agreed in March not to declare the bonds in
default after Bronx Parking consented to operational changes.  Discounted Price  A $3 million block of 5.75 percent parking bonds maturing
in 2027 was sold to a customer at 63.5 cents on the dollar on
May 4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Third Avenue Management LLC, a New York-based investment
adviser, bought Bronx Parking bonds through a credit fund, said
its CEO, David Barse.  “There is an opportunity in these securities” for price
gains, Barse said in a June 9 interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Taking Stock” with Julie Hyman. If the bond
issuer defaults, which Barse said isn’t likely, holders would
have access to “some pretty attractive real estate that is
around Yankee Stadium.”  Peter Block, a Morgan Stanley executive director, said the
bonds could rise to as much as 80 cents if Bronx Parking
monitors and adjusts rates.  “The Yankees continue to draw consistently strong
attendance,” Block said in a March 18 report.  More Fans  The Yankees attracted 1.4 million fans to home games this
season through June 9, up 16 percent from 1.2 million in the
same period last year, according to the Sports Network news
service. The Yankees led all  Major League Baseball  teams in
attendance last year at 3.77 million, according to ESPN.  Gottlieb said investors are looking for opportunities in
municipal bonds after a corporate-debt rally. His firm took
control of the Memphis Redbirds Minor League Baseball franchise
after buying tax-exempt bonds backed by the team last year.  “The muni distressed market is very different than trading
on-the-run corporate distressed,” he said. “Muni credits have
a much longer fuse before they weaken due to the structure of
most muni bonds.”  Documents for the Bronx Parking bonds say the system may
have limited value to bondholders should they take it over
because a  foreclosure sale  wouldn’t raise enough to pay off the
debt and the trustee isn’t expected to collect enough revenue to
cover payments.  Attracting Business  Bronx Parking must hire a consultant and make “reasonable
efforts” to get better signage on the  Major Deegan Expressway ,
which runs past the stadium, to direct cars to its facilities,
according to the forbearance agreement with  U.S. Bank National
Association , the trustee that protects bondholders’ rights. It
also must file monthly revenue and  expense reports .  Both New York state and  New York City  have an interest in
ensuring that the stadium’s garage operations improve. The state
gave Bronx Parking $70 million and the city gave it $34 million
for a park on the roof of one garage. Bronx Parking also owes
the city $18.4 million in deferred rent and payments in lieu of
taxes, according to Polivy.  “We will certainly make ourselves available to assist in
discussions and to help evaluate potential alternatives,”
Patrick Muncie, a spokesman for New York City’s Economic
Development Corp., said in an e-mail. “We remain open to
exploring any proposals that reflect our ongoing revitalization
efforts in the South Bronx.”  Nuveen added $5 million of the garage bonds in the first
quarter, bringing its holdings to $121.6 million, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  John Miller , chief investment
officer for Chicago-based Nuveen declined to comment. T. Rowe
Price Group Inc. and  Aetna Inc. (AET)  also held some of the bonds as
of March 31 and Dec. 31, respectively.  Spokesmen for Davidson Kempner and Monarch Alternative
Capital declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 