-- 
Efficient E-Solutions, KNM Group, MMC: Malaysia Stock Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-06-13T23:56:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/efficient-e-solutions-knm-group-mmc-malaysia-stock-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in  Malaysia  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index fell 0.7 percent to
1,545.88.  Efficient E-Solutions Bhd. (EES)  : The Malaysian data
processing company signed a preliminary agreement with Singapore
Post Ltd. to work together to provide data and document
management services in  Indonesia . The companies may provide
services in other countries later, Efficient E-Solutions said in
a statement. The stock fell 4.4 percent to 22 sen.        KNM Group Bhd. (KNMG)  : The oil and gas services provider
said it stands to benefit from Petroliam Nasional Bhd.’s plan to
build a $20 billion refining complex. The “addressable market”
for KNM in the project is valued at as much as $4 billion,
according to company slides presented to analysts at a briefing
and made available to the stock exchange. KNM fell 1.6 percent
to 1.90 ringgit.  MMC Corp. (MMC MK): The ports and power company’s Malakoff
Corp. unit was appointed by the government to build a 1,000
megawatt coal-fired power plant adjoining its existing Tanjung
Bin generating facility, according to an exchange filing. MMC
fell 2.2 percent to 2.71 ringgit.        Tricubes Bhd. (TRCU)  : Maybank Venture Capital Co. ceased
to be a substantial shareholder of Tricubes after selling 3
million shares in the software products developer, an exchange
filing showed. The stock was unchanged at 8.5 sen.  UOA Development Bhd. (UOAD MK): The Employees Provident
Fund, Malaysia’s largest pension fund, bought 5.4 million shares
in the developer, raising its stake to 6.6 percent, an exchange
filing showed. The stock slid 2.8 percent to 2.45 ringgit.  YTL Power International Bhd. (YTLP)  : The Employees
Provident Fund, Malaysia’s largest pension fund, bought 3.89
million shares in the independent power producer, raising its
stake to 10.2 percent, a stock exchange filing shows. The shares
fell 0.5 percent to 2.15 ringgit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  