-- 
Egyptian Stocks: EFG-Hermes Holding, EFIC, Palm Hills and Sodic

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-06-13T14:32:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/egyptian-stocks-efic-palm-hills-developments-sodic-gb-auto.html
Egypt ’s benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30) 
advanced 0.7 percent to 5,550.22 at the 2:30 p.m. close in
Cairo, the highest level in two weeks.  The following shares rose or fell in Cairo. Symbols are in
parentheses.  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO EY) increased 3.3 percent, the
most in more than two weeks, to 21.28 Egyptian pounds. Egypt’s
biggest publicly traded investment bank approved an increase in
issuing bonus shares by 0.25 share for every one share, pending
regulatory approval. It had said on April 26 it plans to
distribute one free share for every 10 held.  Egyptian Financial & Industrial Co. (EFIC)   climbed 1
percent to 16.84 Egyptian pounds, the highest level since Jan.
24. Egypt’s biggest publicly traded phosphate-based fertilizer
producer was rated “buy” and had its share price estimate set
at 21.49 pounds in new coverage at Beltone Financial Holding
SAE. The Cairo-based investment bank cited an expected increase
in fertilizer prices and the company’s exports.  Palm Hills Developments SAE (PHDC)   jumped 5.6 percent to
2.45 pounds, the highest level in more than two months. The
Egyptian luxury real-estate developer advanced on speculation it
will resolve a dispute with the government over its land
purchases after Egypt settled a similar disagreement with  Saudi
Arabia ’s Kingdom Holding Co. about its Toshka land purchase last
week.  Six of October Development & Investment (OCDI)  Co. gained 3.7
percent to 68.23 pounds.  “The Toshka settlement bodes well for the real-estate
sector because it shows the willingness of the government to
work with investors to avoid legal battles over previous land
sales,” said Omar Darwish, equity sales trader at Cairo-based
Commercial International Brokerage Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  