-- 
Egypt Debt Buoyed by Obama Guarantee for Eurobonds: Arab Credit

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-06-14T13:46:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/egypt-debt-buoyed-by-obama-guarantee-for-1-billion-eurobonds-arab-credit.html
President  Barack Obama ’s guarantee
on $1 billion of Egyptian Eurobonds is poised to reduce the
country’s borrowing costs, helping the transition to democracy
after six decades of autocratic rule.  The support that Obama pledged last month may cut yields on
the five-year debt by 200 basis points, or the equivalent of
$100 million, according to the median estimate of five fund
managers surveyed by Bloomberg. Yields on Egypt’s one-year bills
jumped to the highest level since November 2008 following the
uprising that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  in February. The
country last sold international debt in April 2010.  “The American backing is a complete game changer,”
Michael Cirami, who helps manage $12 billion in assets for
Boston-based Eaton Vance Corp., said in a telephone interview.
“There may be a spill-over effect that it’s going to reduce the
risk premium of their non-guaranteed debt and help them re-enter
the market eventually on their own.”  Obama is offering assistance for the planned Eurobond sale
as the  International Monetary Fund  forecasts  Egypt ’s economy may
grow 1 percent this year, the slowest pace since 1992, and
Moody’s Investors Service says the country’s public finances are
“significantly” weaker than countries with similar credit
ratings. The budget may post its biggest deficit in at least a
decade in the fiscal year ending this month, hampering efforts
to create jobs and reduce the  poverty rate , reasons that sparked
the anti-Mubarak revolt, according to the  Finance Ministry .  Presidential Vote  Egypt will hold presidential elections this year to elect
what could be the first civilian leader since the military took
power in a 1952 coup, according to surveys from organizations
including Washington-based Pew Research Center.  Obama’s May 19 pledge, part of a package that also includes
$1 billion in debt forgiveness, was followed by a $3 billion
loan agreement with the  IMF , a plan for a $2.2 billion loan from
the  World Bank  and $4 billion in economic and budgetary aid from
Saudi Arabia.  The commitments helped bring Egypt’s default risk down to
the lowest level since Jan. 14, the day when a popular revolt
toppled Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, triggering
the protests against Mubarak on Jan. 25.  Default Swaps  Egypt’s credit default swaps, which had peaked at 442 basis
points, or 4.42 percentage points, on Jan. 31, plunged to 306
basis points today, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market. The yield on Egypt’s 10-year
dollar bonds maturing in April 2020 has tumbled 46 basis points
since May 19 to 5.73 percent. The rate had peaked at 7.07
percent on Jan. 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Egypt’s
international debt over U.S. Treasuries also fell, declining 37
basis points since May 19 to 313. Middle Eastern debt yields are
on average 349 basis points more than Treasuries, according to
the JPMorgan EMBIG index.  Egypt needs to sell a five-year Eurobond soon to diversify
the way it raises debt because the local market is “squeezed”
after the government increased borrowing to plug the deficit,
Finance Minister Samir Radwan said by telephone on May 23.  “Egypt’s rising borrowing needs, to finance the widening
budget deficit after the revolution, have put a lot of pressure
on the local treasury-bill market,” Mohamed Abu Basha, an
economist at Cairo-based EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, the biggest
publicly-traded Arab investment bank, said by telephone.
“Diversifying should lower the overall cost of borrowing.”  Rising Yields  The Ministry of Finance has failed to raise the targeted
amount in the last eight sales of one-year bills, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on the notes surged 230
basis points this year to 12.97 percent, central bank data show.  The country last tapped international markets with the sale
of $1.5 billion of bonds in April 2010. Egypt has $1 billion in
8.75 percent Eurobonds maturing in July this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on those bonds declined 70
basis points since May 19 to 3.217 percent.  Egypt is rated Ba3, three levels below investment grade, by
Moody’s, which lowered the rating for a second time this year in
March. Standard & Poor’s rates Egypt BB, in line with  Turkey ,
Jordan and  Guatemala .  Persian Gulf  Yields are falling in oil-rich Persian Gulf nations that
have avoided Egypt-style revolts. The average yield on Gulf debt
tumbled 38 basis points this year to 4.9 percent on June 13,
according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC Conventional US Dollar
Bond Index that tracks 85 securities in the region. Credit
default swaps for  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest oil
producer, have climbed 19 basis points this year to 94 today,
less than one-third of Egypt’s default risk.  The U.S. currently gives Egypt $1.5 billion a year in aid,
including $1.3 billion for its military. The U.S. last forgave
Egyptian debt -- $6.7 billion worth -- in 1990 following the
Arab country’s participation in the coalition that ended the
Iraqi occupation of  Kuwait .  Credit default swaps for  Morocco , which is rated Ba1 at
Moody’s, trade at 171 basis points, according to CMA. The North
African kingdom’s total debt is below 50 percent of economic
output. Egypt has a debt-to-GDP ratio of more than 70 percent.  The cost to protect debt from Bahrain, the island-kingdom
where anti-government protests this year prompted other  Persian
Gulf  countries to send a military force to restore order, from
default through credit-default swaps is at 233 basis points. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government or
company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Budget Support  The Egyptian government has sought $9.5 billion in budget
support from international sources, according to a document on
the Finance Ministry’s  website  detailing the government’s plan
for the fiscal year that starts next month. The government
projects the budget shortfall may reach 11 percent of gross
domestic product compared with about 10 percent this year.  “Egypt suffers from deep-seated political, socio-economic
challenges,” Moody’s said in a statement May 24. “These
include chronic high rate of unemployment, elevated inflation
and widespread poverty.”  Unemployment rose to 11.9 percent in the first quarter this
year, compared with 8.9 percent in the previous three months.
Food prices, one of the reasons that sparked the revolt against
Mubarak, have risen about 20 percent this year, according to the
government’s statistics agency.  Lack of details on the timing of coming aid, as well as
concern over the formation of the next government after
September’s elections, may make donor nations and international
lenders hesitant to fulfill their pledges, said Liz Martins,
Dubai-based senior economist at HSBC Holdings Plc.  ‘Urgent’ Situation  “Most creditors will be wary of lending to an
administration that does not yet exist,” she said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “In the meantime, the fiscal
situation for Egypt is urgent, and banks are having to step up
to finance the growing deficit.”  Local lenders have increased purchases of treasury bills
after foreign investors trimmed their holdings of Egyptian
securities by $4.9 billion in the first quarter this year,
according to central bank  data .  The U.S. backing will help reduce the risk and spur demand
among investors, said Sergey Dergachev, who helps manage the
equivalent of $8.5 billion in emerging-market debt at Union
Investment Privatfonds in  Frankfurt .  “The U.S. guarantee helps to get more interest from
investors and calm investors’ nerves a little bit,” he said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “But underlying credit risks
for Egypt are nevertheless very high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  