-- 
Egypt Resumes Exporting Natural Gas to Israel, Official Says

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-06-13T11:44:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/egypt-resumes-exporting-natural-gas-to-israel-official-says-1-.html
Egypt  resumed exporting  natural gas 
to  Israel  and Jordan, said an official at state-owned Egyptian
Natural Gas Holding Co.  The shipments started June 10 after repairs following an
explosion in April that damaged the pipeline network carrying
the fuel, Enas El Sheikh, the general manager of the information
department, said today by phone from Cairo.  “The gas started flowing at small amounts on Friday,” she
said. “Now they are trying out the spare parts that were
imported to replace the parts that were damaged.”  Flow rates will increase to 30 percent to 35 percent of
total contracted amounts by the end of today from 15 percent
since shipments resumed, said an official at Cairo-based East
Mediterranean Gas Co., asking not to be identified in line with
company policy.  Unidentified attackers blew up a monitoring room near the
northern Sinai city of El-Arish on April 27, halting domestic
supplies and gas exports. The Oil Ministry said at the time that
the incident was an “act of sabotage” and that an
investigation was under way to identify the perpetrators. The
attack was the second in three months on the pipeline after a
similar blast on Feb. 5 during the popular uprising against
former President  Hosni Mubarak . Authorities thwarted a separate
attempt on the network on March 27.  The Egyptian authorities were stepping up security measures
along the 192-kilometer (119-mile) pipeline, Abdel Sattar El
Demerdash, general manager of gas network and engineering and
analysis at the Egyptian Natural Gas Co., or Gasco, said May 26.  Exports to Israel  Opposition members, including the  Muslim Brotherhood , have
criticized Mubarak’s regime for exporting the fuel to Israel at
prices they say were below market rates. During the 18 days of
demonstrations that ended with Mubarak’s ouster on Feb. 11, some
protesters were demanding halting gas exports to Israel, with
which the North African country signed a peace treaty in 1979.  East Mediterranean Gas, in which  Ampal-American Israel (AMPL) 
Corp. owns a 12.5 percent stake, buys the gas from the Egyptian
Natural Gas Holding Co., or Egas, and ships it to Israel via an
undersea extension. A separate branch that splits from the
Gasco-operated main North Sinai pipeline transports the fuel to
Jordan, Syria and Lebanon.  Egypt holds  Africa ’s third-biggest gas reserves, with 78
trillion cubic feet (2.19 trillion cubic meters), according to
data from BP Plc. It produces 6.3 billion cubic feet of gas a
day, according to Oil Ministry documents.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  