-- 
Electrolux Chief Says Talking to Daewoo on Potential Acquisition

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-13T10:54:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/electrolux-chief-says-talking-to-daewoo-on-potential-acquisition.html
Electrolux AB (ELUXB)  has renewed talks with
Daewoo Electronics Corp. about potentially buying the bankrupt
South Korean appliance maker, Electrolux Chief Executive Officer
Keith McLoughlin said.  “We have just reengaged conversations with them,”
McLoughlin said today in a telephone interview. “We’re trying
to get information to assess the situation. We’ve been
interested in this property from the beginning, and we’re still
interested.”  Creditors of Daewoo Electronics last year agreed to an
offer from  Entekhab Industrial Group  over a competing one from
Electrolux. That deal collapsed last month after the Iranian
company failed to make the full payment of 578 billion won ($530
million).  Creditors sent a letter to Electrolux on May 31,
asking the Stockholm-based company if it’s interested in buying
Daewoo, a spokesman for the main creditor Woori Bank said last
week.  Acquisitions play a key role in Electrolux’s global growth
strategy.  The company, the world’s largest appliance maker
after  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , is focusing on growth under McLoughlin,
who took over as CEO at the start of the year, after several
years of targeting savings by moving production to low-cost
countries under predecessor Hans Straaberg.  Electrolux has yet to decide whether to place a new bid on
Daewoo, McLoughlin said.  Daewoo’s creditors have searched for a decade for a buyer
of the former unit of Daewoo Group. The group was once  South
Korea ’s largest conglomerate before it collapsed in 1999.  Olympic Purchase  The Swedish maker of such products as Frigidaire
refrigerators and AEG ovens aims to close its pending
acquisition of Egyptian appliance maker  Olympic Group Financial
Investments (OLGR)  this year, he said.  “We still feel very good about them as a company, as a
strategy and as a business,” he said.  Electrolux earlier today said it will raise prices in
 Europe  by 5 percent to 7 percent, starting in October, to
counter rising raw-material costs.  The company’s costs for
materials such as steel, resins and plastics may rise 2 billion
kronor this year, McLoughlin said, reiterating an earlier
forecast.  “These dramatic increases in cyclical commodities have to
make their way through the market place,” the CEO said. “Even
though we have seen increased price pressure in the first part
of 2011, we’re confident we can pass this through.”  McLoughlin also maintained his forecast from April that the
European appliance market will grow 3 percent this year, and
that the U.S. appliance market will gain 3 percent to 5 percent.
In the U.S., the growth may be “closer to the lower part of the
range as April was somewhat weaker than expected,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  