-- 
Telkom Cuts Funding to Multi-Links After Spending $1.44 Billion in Nigeria

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-06-13T15:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/telkom-south-africa-says-it-s-stopped-all-funding-to-multi-links-nigeria.html
Telkom South  Africa  Ltd., Africa’s
largest fixed-line operator, said it’s stopping funding for
Nigerian division Multi-Links Telecommunications Ltd. after a
deal to sell the unit’s CDMA wireless business failed.  Telkom has spent 9.8 billion rand ($1.44 billion) on Multi-
Links, which includes the $410 million cost of buying the Lagos-
based business in 2007, Chief Executive Officer Nombulelo Moholi
said. Talks to sell the CDMA business of Multi-Links to Visafone
Communications Ltd. for $52 million failed after terms of the
deal weren’t met, she said.  Multi-Links is being sued for $252 million by Helios Towers
Nigeria, a unit of London-based Helios Investment Partners LLP,
after it stopped paying Helios for the leasing of mobile-phone
towers in  Nigeria  three years into a 10-year contract. Multi-
Links argued that the lease was invalid because the government
hadn’t authorized building on the land where Helios Towers
placed the equipment. A judge in Nigeria’s commercial capital of
Lagos found the contract to be valid.  The Multi-Links investment “is a lesson on how not to do
business,” Moholi said in an interview in Johannesburg today.
“The board of Multi-Links must deal with the claimed liability
as it sees fit,” she said, adding that the dispute is between
two Nigerian companies and “has nothing to do with Telkom.”  Revenue Falls  The CDMA sale to Visafone depended on conditions including
renegotiation of a contract with Helios Towers Nigeria. Multi-
Links hasn’t made a profit since Telkom bought the company.
Telkom is still committed to exiting Multi-Links’ CDMA business,
the Pretoria-based company said in a filing today. CDMA, or code
division multiple access, is a radio technology used in data
phones and networks.  Telkom “can either negotiate to pay a lower price with
Helios, or Telkom can liquidate Multi-Links and pay Helios
whatever is left, together with other creditors,” Khulekani Dlamini, a portfolio manager at Cape Town-based Afena Capital,
which has 18 billion rand in assets, said last week.  Telkom’s total full-year normalized operating revenue in
the year ended March 31 fell 5.2 percent to 33.4 billion rand as
increased data revenue didn’t compensate for lower voice sales,
the company said.  The year “has been tough,” Telkom said in the statement.
“Competition, pricing pressures and regulatory intervention
have all had an impact on our revenue. The declines seen in our
traditional fixed-line voice revenue are set to continue.”  Telkom fell 0.7 percent to 36.80 rand by the 5 p.m. close
in Johannesburg trading, giving the company a market value of
19.2 billion rand.  Telkom’s full-year voice revenue decreased 17 percent to
13.7 billion rand, while data revenue rose 7.7 percent to 10.7
billion rand, the company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  