-- 
Emerging Market Stocks Fall to Three-Week Low on Economic Recovery Concern

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-06-13T22:53:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/emerging-market-stocks-fall-to-three-week-low-on-economic-recovery-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks declined,
sending the benchmark index to the lowest level in almost three
weeks, as concern increased that tighter monetary policy in
 China  and Europe’s debt crisis will slow global economic growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.4 percent to
1,124.67 at 4:30 p.m. in  New York , the lowest closing level
since May 25. China’s Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.2 percent,
while Taiwan’s Taiex Index slumped 1.4 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa
index fell to its lowest in 11 months as a drop in commodity
prices dimmed the outlook for producers. Turkey’s benchmark  ISE
National 100 Index (XU100)  dropped 0.3 percent after the government
reported a wider current-account deficit.  China’s new loans of 551.6 billion yuan ($85 billion) in
May missed the 650 billion-yuan median estimate of 20 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, while  money supply  grew at the slowest
pace since 2008, data showed today. Costs to insure Greece,
Ireland and Portugal’s debt against default reached all-time
highs after Standard & Poor’s cut Greece’s credit rating three
levels to CCC, the world’s lowest debt grade, with a negative
outlook.  “Investors aren’t seeing any momentum now as European debt
concerns persist and as some economic indicators turn out to be
lackluster,” said Chung Yun Sik, chief investment officer for
equities at ING Investment Management Korea Ltd., which oversees
about $16 billion.  Petrobras, Vale  The MSCI emerging-market gauge has dropped 2.3 percent this
year, compared with a 0.7 percent advance in the MSCI World
Index of developed-nation shares. Stocks in the emerging-market
index are valued at 10.3 times analysts’ 12-month earnings
estimates, the lowest level since March 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Exchanges in Russia and Hungary are
closed today for holidays.  Oil fell to a four-week low as fuel demand from China
slowed and following  Greece ’s downgrade by S&P. Copper fell for
a fourth day, the longest slump in almost two weeks on concern
about weakening demand. Aluminum, lead, zinc and tin fell in
 London .  Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, dropped 1.6 percent as crude declined. Vale SA, the
world’s second-largest miner, followed metals prices lower,
retreating 1.5 percent in  Sao Paulo .  Turkey’s current-account deficit widened in April from a
year earlier, underlining the most pressing economic weakness
facing Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  as he starts his
third term in office. The gap was the second-biggest since
records began in 1984. Erdogan won yesterday’s parliamentary
election with 50 percent of the vote.  Tech Stocks  A gauge of technology companies in the MSCI index fell 1
percent for the biggest drop among 10 industry groups. Taiwan’s
 HTC Corp. (2498) , a maker of smartphones using operating systems from
Google Inc. and Microsoft Corp., sank 6.9 percent after UBS AG
said in a report the company cut around 1 million units of
orders across different models in the third quarter. Foxconn
Technology Co. slumped 6.9 percent after saying sales tumbled 53
percent in May from a year earlier.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 311, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  European Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said
 Spain  won’t be able to raise financing if it fails to reach a
budget-deficit target. European Central Bank President Jean-
Claude Trichet and German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
are at odds over investors’ role in the second Greek rescue in
14 months.  “We are looking for a summer lull in the markets,” Arnout Van Rijn, chief investment officer for Asia at Robeco Hong Kong
Ltd., said in a Bloomberg Television interview. In the U.S. and
 Europe , “it looks pretty dire there from a debt point of view.
On the other hand, you have the tightening going on in many
Asian markets. The feel-good factor is missing right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 Lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  