-- 
ENRC Rises Most in Seven Months in London on Glencore Takeover Speculation

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-06-13T15:56:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/enrc-shares-advance-most-in-seven-months-on-glencore-takeover-speculation.html
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp., a
producer of metals in  Kazakhstan , advanced the most in seven
months in  London  trading after the Sunday Times reported
Glencore International Plc was studying a takeover.  The stock rose 4.7 percent to 776.5 pence at the 4:30 p.m.
close, the biggest one-day gain since Nov. 4, valuing ENRC at 10
billion pounds ($16.3 billion). Glencore Chief Executive Officer
Ivan Glasenberg held talks with shareholders controlling about
45 percent of ENRC and may offer 12 billion pounds, the Sunday
Times said yesterday, citing a person it didn’t identify.  “An acquisition of ENRC would significantly bolster the
asset base of Glencore,” Collins Stewart Plc analysts wrote
today in a note, adding that a full takeover is unlikely to be
approved by the Kazakh government. Buying 26 percent of the
company from  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  is “more realistic,” they said.  ENRC fell to a 23-month low on June 10 after shareholders
ousted two independent board members and management began a
review of governance. Glasenberg has also held talks with the
Kazakh government, which holds 12 percent of ENRC, the Sunday
Times said, citing a separate unidentified official. The company
hasn’t made a formal bid, the London-based newspaper reported.  Glencore, the largest listed commodity trader, rose 2.8
percent to 523.4 pence.  Simon Buerk , a spokesman for the Baar,
Switzerland-based company, and ENRC officials wouldn’t comment.  Bid Unlikely  “We would see an all-out cash bid near-term from Glencore
for ENRC as highly unlikely and the Swiss-based group issuing
more equity is not an option for at least six months,” Miriam Hehir, an RBC Capital Markets analyst in London, said today.
“Glencore highly values its investment-grade credit ratings,
which help to underpin its profitable marketing business, and we
do not believe it would jeopardize these ratings.”  Glencore is a potential buyer of Kazakhmys’s stake in ENRC,
Liberum Capital Ltd. said in January. Kazakhmys, Kazakhstan’s
biggest copper miner, is considering its options, including a
possible sale of the stake, CEO Oleg Novachuk said last year.  “Glencore’s trading business would benefit from a
significant rise in its market share of ferrochrome and
aluminum,”  Collins Stewart  said. “An acquisition would also
provide an entry into  iron ore , with assets and exports in
Kazakhstan and  Brazil .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  