-- 
Herman Cain on Why ‘The Black Guy Is Winning’: Jeffrey Goldberg

-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 
2011-06-13T04:01:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/herman-cain-on-why-the-black-guy-is-winning-jeffrey-goldberg.html
Herman Cain , the beguilingly
personable pizza mogul and Tea Party sweetheart who is showing
well in the so-far uncompelling Republican presidential
nomination campaign, threw a flag early in an interview I
conducted with him last week. I had made the dire mistake of
referring to him as African-American.  “I am an American. Black. Conservative,” he said,
punctuating each aspect of his self-identity. “I don’t use
African-American, because I’m American, I’m black and I’m
conservative. I don’t like people trying to label me. African-
American is socially acceptable for some people, but I am not
some people.”  What is it about the word “African” that  the candidate 
doesn’t particularly appreciate?  “Most of the ancestors that I can trace were born here in
the  United States of America ,” he said, hitting those last four
words with a hammer. “And then it goes back to slavery. And I’m
sure my ancestors go all the way back to  Africa , but I feel more
of an affinity for America than I do for Africa. I’m a black man
in America.”  This statement came shortly before our discussion turned to
another politician generally understood to be an African-
American.  “Barack Obama is more of an international,” Cain said.
“I think he’s out of the mainstream and always has been. Look,
he was raised in  Kenya , his mother was white from  Kansas  and her
family had an influence on him, it’s true, but his dad was
Kenyan, and when he was going to school he got a lot of
fellowships, scholarships, he stayed in the academic environment
for a long time. He spent most of his career as an
intellectual.”  Indonesia , Kenya, Whatever  I left unasked the question of whether it’s more
disreputable to be Kenyan or to be an intellectual (and let us
pity those suffering Kenyan intellectuals). But I suggested to
Cain that while Obama had, in fact, spent four years of his
youth abroad, it was in Indonesia, not Kenya. To which Cain, who
has dallied with the fading phenomenon known as “birtherism,”
responded, “Yeah, Indonesia.”  Cain wants to be taken seriously in this race. He has
said some very unserious things -- his proposal to build a moat
between the U.S. and  Mexico  and fill it with alligators comes to
mind -- but his resume is not that of a mere curiosity
candidate. He has been a corporate CEO, a chairman of the
 Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City  and president of the
 National Restaurant Association . He has created jobs in the
private sector. He is affable, charismatic and funny, qualities
not found in abundance in the current field of candidates.  The Non-Obama  But it is apparent that his popularity, especially among
conservatives aligned with the Tea Party, can be traced in large
part to his status as the black guy who is not Obama, the
Georgia Baptist with the American name. Cain overtly plays this
role in front of conservative audiences, offering them public
absolution for a sin they don’t believe is a sin: believing that
the president is somehow alien to the U.S. and its way of life.  At a convention of the Conservative Political Action
Committee in February, Cain told an enthusiastic audience:
“They call me racist too, because I disagree with a president
who happens to be black.” To cheers, he went on, “You will get
called racist simply because you happen to disagree with a
president who happens to be black. You are not racists! You are
patriots because you are willing to stand up for what you
believe in!”  Tea-Party Cool  I explored this theme with Cain when we met. “I’ve been
speaking to the Tea Party before it was cool,” he told me.
“These people aren’t going to go back to sleep. This sleeping
giant is staying awake. The only tactic liberals have is to try
to intimidate people into thinking that the Tea Party is racist.
The Tea Party is not a racist movement, period! If it were, why
would the  straw polls  keep showing that the black guy is
winning? That’s a rhetorical question. Let me state it: The
black guy keeps winning.”  He went on, “This isn’t why I’m running, but my candidacy
would take race off the table. Right now, every time someone
criticizes  Barack Obama , they try to play the race card, the
White House, all his supporters, they try to play the race
card.”  Like who?  “I can’t think of a particular individual right offhand,”
he answered. “But you see a lot of that implied.” Then he came
up with a name: David Gregory, the “Meet the Press” moderator.
He was referring to  Gregory’s questioning  of  Newt Gingrich , who
had, in a speech before the Georgia Republican Party, referred
to President Obama as a “food-stamp” president.  Not About Race  “For David Gregory to sit there and say, ‘Speaker
Gingrich, was that a coded racist statement?’ just shows you how
deep they dig to turn this into race. What the hell was he
talking about?”  I suggested to him that Gingrich’s turn of phrase was a
quality example of a racial dog whistle, though it was not as
elegantly rendered as  Ronald Reagan ’s infamous reference to a
“strapping young buck” who used his  food stamps  to buy a “T-
bone steak.” (Gingrich, in the midst of a strange and dreadful
campaign, has been running something of a dog-whistle seminar,
stating that President Obama is trying to “get the whole
country to resemble  Detroit ,” and arguing to those same Georgia
Republicans that next year’s election will be the most important
since that of 1860.)  Cain wasn’t buying it: “As a black man, I didn’t see race
in that statement whatsoever.”  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at 
 tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 