-- 
Estonia’s Ligi Asked to Apply for Central Bank Governor’s Post

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-06-13T11:26:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/estonia-s-ligi-asked-to-apply-for-central-bank-governor-s-post.html
Finance Minister Juergen Ligi has
been asked to seek the post of central bank governor when
 Andres Lipstok ’s term expires next June.  “Juergen Ligi, having been a very strong finance minister,
is certainly qualified for this position,” said Jaan Mannik,
the bank’s supervisory board chairman, who asked Ligi to apply.
Ligi said he would like to think about the decision until
August, Mannik said today in a phone interview. The Estonian
newspaper Postimees reported Mannik’s request on June 11.  Lipstok, whose seven-year term ends June 6, 2012, became a
voting member of the European Central Bank council when Estonia
adopted the euro on Jan. 1. He can’t be re-elected.  The central bank’s eight-member supervisory board will meet
Sept. 6 to draw up a list of two to four candidates, Mannik
said. A successor to Lipstok must be backed by five board
members and approved by Estonian President Toomas Ilves.  Ligi was reappointed in April after the ruling coalition
won a larger majority in March elections following its decision
to implement austerity measures equal to 9 percent of economic
output in 2009 to remain on course to adopt the euro. Ligi has
degrees in geography and international economy from Tartu
University in Estonia and has taken courses toward a master’s in
business administration at the Estonian Business School.  Ligi, 51, said the central bank governor needs to be “a
practitioner, with fiscally conservative actions, experiences
and instincts,” according to a comment forwarded by  Finance
Ministry . He declined to comment on whether he plans to apply.  Ardo Hansson, the  World Bank ’s chief economist for  China ,
is “very likely” to be shortlisted as a candidate, Mannik
said. Hansson said today he may consider applying if he is
approached about the job.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  