-- 
Let Free Markets Rule, and Banks Win, on Debit-Card Fees: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-13T04:01:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/let-free-markets-rule-and-banks-win-on-debit-card-fees-view.html
The Dodd-Frank financial-reform law,
which was enacted last year, requires the Federal Reserve Board
to set a limit on how much banks may charge for processing
debit-card transactions. The average fee now is 44 cents per
transaction. The Fed has proposed a limit of 12 cents, beginning
July 21.  The banks, naturally, don’t care for this. These
transaction fees bring them about $20 billion a year. So they
have been conducting one of those ludicrous lobbying campaigns
that sweep over  Washington  from time to time, warning of higher
prices, reduced services, plagues of locusts, more naked
congressmen on Twitter and just about any deplorable development
you can think of if the new regulations are allowed to go
through. On Wednesday, the Senate defeated a proposal to delay
the new limit for six months in order to allow time for further
study.  The banks’ campaign against the price cap is so elaborate,
expensive and sometimes disingenuous that it is natural to
assume that they must be in the wrong. Through political action
committees, they have contributed tens of thousands of dollars
to friendly legislators. They have spent millions on lobbying.
Organizations with preposterous names like “Americans for
Prosperity” (who isn’t?) gin up letter-writing campaigns, and
consultants are hired to stage other “grass roots” activities
in order to give the impression that citizens are deeply
concerned about this issue -- which they aren’t.  Let Market Decide  Despite its tendentious name (the Debit Interchange Fee
Study Act), the purpose of the defeated bill had nothing to do
with any uncertainty or need for further study about the wisdom
of capping bank debit-card fees. It was part of an attempt to
kill the proposed cap by procrastination.  No further study is needed. In this case, their shenanigans
aside, the big banks are in the right. Why in the world should
the government set the price for using a debit card? Most prices
in our economy are set by the market -- an arrangement that
works pretty well. Sometimes the market can’t do the job. But
there is no reason to think the market can’t work perfectly well
in setting prices for processing debit-card transactions. If 44
cents is more than this service really costs, surely one of
America’s thousands of banks will take a deep breath and offer
to do it for 42 cents.  Selling Point  If Visa Inc. and MasterCard Inc. have enough market power
to prevent that from happening, the answer is antitrust, not
price controls. It’s too bad that America’s banks don’t have
enough confidence in free markets to make an honest argument on
their own behalf. The Fed may have hit on a way to help them do
so by encouraging the creation of independent networks for debit
transactions. This would open Visa and MasterCard to
competition, which should go at least part of the way to
breaking the lock on transaction fees.  Because of Congress’s misplaced concern for “small banks”
(an illustration of the fallacy that small businesses are owned
by folks with small wallets), Dodd-Frank’s debit-card fee cap
applies only to banks with assets of more than $10 billion.
Anyone with the slightest understanding of how free markets work
(a group that apparently doesn’t include Democratic Senator
 Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the force behind the transaction-fee
ceiling) would realize that if your competitors are required to
sell a service for 12 cents, you probably can’t sell the same
service for 44 cents.  Price controls on debit-card transaction fees won’t bring
Armageddon, as the big banks maintain. But they are a bad idea
that wouldn’t look any better after six months, or six years, of
study.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  