-- 
Ethiopian Annual Inflation Rate Increased to 34.7% in May on Food Prices

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-06-13T12:38:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/ethiopia-s-annual-inflation-rate-increased-to-34-7-in-may-on-food-prices.html
Ethiopia ’s annual inflation rate
climbed to 34.7 percent in May as food prices surged, the
Central Statistical Agency said.  Inflation accelerated from 25.6 percent in the previous
month, the Addis Ababa-based agency said in an e-mailed
statement today. Food prices jumped 41 percent in the year,
compared with a 32.2 percent increase in April, it said.  Price increases in Ethiopia, Africa’s second-most populous
nation, are being driven by “excessive” growth in money supply,
which expanded 35 percent at the end of March, the  International
Monetary Fund  said on May 31. The Washington-based lender had
previously projected an increase of 22 percent in money supply
this fiscal year.  The government has cited high international commodity
prices for the rise in inflation. Global food prices climbed in
nine of the past 11 months, touching a record in February, amid
tightening grain supplies and increased demand, according to the
 United Nations .  Oil prices have risen as a result of political instability
in the Middle East and once they decline, Ethiopian prices will
drop, Deputy Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn said on June 8.  The negative real  interest rates  that have resulted from
rising inflation is discouraging a necessary boost to Ethiopia’s
national savings rate, the country director of the  World Bank  in
Ethiopia, Ken Ohashi, said on June 7.  Without a significant increase in savings from the current
official rate of 5 percent of gross domestic product, Ethiopia
will struggle to finance a five-year growth plan in a
sustainable manner, Ohashi said.  The IMF forecasts Ethiopia’s growth rate may fall to 6
percent in the fiscal year to July 7, 2012, from 7.5 percent
this year, partly because of inflation. The government’s
forecast for the current fiscal year is 11.4 percent. The
government will meet its growth targets, Hailemariam said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 