-- 
Etihad Atheeb Telecom, Sipchem: Persian Gulf Equity Preview

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-06-13T05:06:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/etihad-atheeb-telecom-sipchem-persian-gulf-equity-preview.html
The following stocks may rise or
fall in Persian Gulf markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses
and prices are from the last close.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  dropped 0.3 percent and  Abu
Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  slipped 0.1 percent.  Saudi Arabia ’s
 Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  gained 0.6 percent.        Advanced Petrochemicals Co. (APPC)  of Saudi Arabia (APPC AB): The
Saudi Arabian chemicals producer will give a 1-riyal dividend
for the first half of the year. The shares advanced 0.3 percent
to 33.5 riyals.  Combined Group Contracting Co. (CGC)  : The construction
company plans to expand operations in Saudi Arabia and Qatar
after Kuwait postponed a $2.6 billion road-building contract the
company sought in partnership with Hyundai Engineering &
Construction. The shares were unchanged at 1,800 fils.       Etihad Atheeb Telecom Co. (EAT AB): The phone company
received approval from the Capital Market Authority to cut its
capital to 400 million riyals ($106 million) from 1 billion
riyals. The capital decrease requires the approval of
shareholders, it said. The shares decreased 1.9 percent to 7.75
riyals.        Saudi International Petrochemical Co. (SIPCHEM)  : The
company known as Sipchem received the approval of the Capital
Market Authority to offer Islamic bonds to the public. The
shares rose 0.9 percent to 21.55 riyals.        Vodafone Qatar (VFQS)  : The venture between Vodafone
Group Plc and the state-owned Qatar Foundation plans to obtain a
$100 million loan in the next 45 days to establish a fixed-line
phone network in the Persian Gulf emirate, said John Tombleson,
the company’s acting chief executive officer. The shares were
unchanged at 7.92 riyals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  