-- 
EU Expects July Vote on Carbon-Permit Auctions After Talks This Week

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-06-14T08:01:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/eu-eyes-july-vote-on-early-co2-auctions-after-talks-this-week.html
European Union nations may decide in
July how many carbon-dioxide permits to sell at early auctions
in 2012 after a debate scheduled this week.  “We will have a policy debate to take stock of member
states’ views on our proposal in order to facilitate
preparations for a positive vote in the July session,” Peter Zapfel, head of policy coordination at the climate department of
the European Commission, said in an interview.  The EU Climate Change Committee will at its June 17 meeting
in Brussels discuss the proposal by the commission, the bloc’s
regulator, to sell 120 million permits next year from the post-
2012 period of its emissions trading system, according to a
meeting agenda.  The commission is seeking to limit price shocks as the EU
gradually phases out free allowances. Utilities sell power as
much as three years in advance, and buy forward carbon permits
and fuel at the same time to lock in profits. The EU, will
auction about 60 percent of all CO2 permits in 2013, according
to the commission estimates, and the proportion will increase in
the next years.  EU carbon permits for delivery in December dropped as much
as 1.2 percent to 16.49 euros a metric ton today in  London  on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London, extending their loss
to 2.5 percent this month.  The commission agreed last year to give member states the
opportunity to run their own national carbon auctioning
platforms alongside a common EU platform -- an option that the
U.K., Germany and  Poland  said they wanted to use.  “We intend also to make substantial progress in the July
session on the joint procurement agreement needed to launch the
tender for the common auction platform,” Zapfel said.  World’s Largest  The EU, which started the world’s largest cap-and-trade
program in 2005, is currently planning for the third phase,
which runs from 2013 through 2020.  The proposed sales at early auction would come on top of
300 million allowances from a post-2012 EU reserve to raise
funds for clean-energy projects. The total of 420 million
permits to be sold early would correspond to 21 percent of
average annual supply in the current phase, which began in 2008.  To bring forward sales from the reserve, known as NER300
and valued at around 5 billion euros, the commission proposed a
provision to create and transfer allowances to the  European
Investment Bank , which will then sell them, before the single EU
carbon registry to track transactions in post-2012 permits is
fully operational.  Regular Intervals  This provision is included in a draft regulation on the
single registry, which the Climate Change Committee, composed of
national government representatives, is scheduled to vote this
week. The registry will replace around 30 national carbon
centers in the third phase of the EU emissions trading system,
known as the ETS.  “The 300 million NER allowances, which are expected to be
monetized by the EIB by the end of next year, are not for use in
the second phase of the ETS, but can at the earliest be used to
cover emissions in 2013,” Zapfel said.  The EIB is due to begin selling the allowances one month
after receiving them and sales will take place in regular
intervals and at least every second week. The commission said
last month it will be able to deliver the NER300 permits to the
bank when the draft regulation on the registry, which aims to
boost the security of transactions after online thieves roiled
the EU carbon market earlier this year, enters into force.  ‘Intense Discussions’  Jos Delbeke, director general for climate at the
commission, said last week that “intense discussions” with
member states have continued since the commission presented the
draft last month and one issue still under discussion is the
proposed 24-hour delay in transfer of carbon allowances between
registry accounts.  “We are continuing to examine whether -- and if so under
what conditions -- certain types of transfers may be exempted
from the delivery delay,” Delbeke said on June 10. The
International Emissions Trading Association has said automated
transactions shouldn’t be subject to the proposed mechanism.  Following an approval in the Climate Change Committee, the
commission proposal would require three months of scrutiny by
the EU nations and the European Parliament before formal
adoption. Decisions taken under this regulatory procedure, often
referred to as comitology, usually take four or five months to
become binding.  Aviation Dispute  The committee is also due to discuss this week the
recognition of third-country actions that would enable their
airlines to be exempted from the EU emissions trading system
when it expands next year to cover aviation.  China ’s airline
association said last week that it “totally opposes” the EU
plan, adding the initiative may prompt trade conflict.  The European legislation offers an option to exclude
incoming flights from a non-EU country if the nation implements
“equivalent” measures to cut pollution from aviation. The
discussion will be a continuation of talks that member states
held in July last year.  The Climate Change Committee “was positive towards the
start of the action to recognize third country measures,” the
commission said in a summary report of the July 14 meeting.
“Member States were invited to highlight to the third
countries, that there is the possibility to start discussing
equivalent measures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  