-- 
European Stocks Advance, Rebounding From 2 1/2 Month Low; ENRC Leads Gains

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-06-13T15:57:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/european-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-enrc-shares-might-advance.html
European stocks advanced, rebounding
from a 2 1/2 month low, led by a rally in Eurasian Natural
Resources Corp. as investors speculated that the mining company
may receive a takeover approach.  ENRC jumped 4.7 percent after the Sunday Times reported
that Glencore International Plc, the world’s largest commodity
trader, may make a bid.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  climbed 2.2 percent.  Banco
Popolare SC (BP)  advanced on speculation that the Italian lender may
avoid holding a rights offer. Carnival Plc paced declining
shares after the company cut its forecast.  The benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index advanced 0.2 percent
to 268.71 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . The gauge declined 2
percent last week, its sixth consecutive weekly drop, for the
longest stretch of losses since 2008, as U.S. economic data
trailed forecasts and speculation grew that Greece may default
on its debt.  “We still see 10 percent index upside,” wrote Gary Baker,
the London-based head of European equities strategy at BofA
Merrill Lynch Global Research in a report to clients dated
today. “While the near-term directions for markets still look
broadly sideways, our belief in a better second-half performance
anticipates a bottoming out in U.S. growth expectations and a
diminishing risk of a hard landing in China.”  National benchmark indexes climbed in 5 out of the 11
western European markets open today.  Germany ’s  DAX Index (DAX)  gained
0.2 percent, while the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  and France’s  CAC 40
Index (CAC)  increased 0.1 percent. Markets in Austria, Denmark,
Greece, Iceland, Norway and Switzerland are all closed for a
public holiday.  Jean-Claude Juncker  Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker said a bailout for Greece
must include “voluntary” investor participation and meet the
approval of central bankers. Juncker, who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, made the comments in an interview
on Radio Berlin-Brandenburg on June 11.  Juncker, who is also Luxembourg’s prime minister, seeks to
bridge the gap between German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , who has called for Greek bondholders to extend the
maturities of their debt by seven years, and European Central
Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet, who says imposing losses on
creditors would be akin to a default.  ‘Perfect Storm’  New York University professor Nouriel Roubini warned in an
interview that a “perfect storm” of fiscal woe in the U.S., a
slowdown in  China , European debt restructuring and stagnation in
 Japan  may converge on the global economy.  There’s a one-in-three chance that the factors will combine
to stunt growth from 2013, Roubini said in a June 11 interview
in  Singapore . Other possible outcomes are “anemic but OK”
global growth, or an “optimistic” scenario in which the
expansion improves.  ENRC led mining companies higher, surging 4.7 percent to
776.5 pence, its biggest gain in seven months, after the Sunday
Times reported that Glencore may bid for the producer of metals
in Kazakhstan.  Ivan Glasenberg, Glencore’s chief executive officer, has
held talks in the last few weeks with the three investors who
control about 45 percent of ENRC’s shares, the newspaper said,
citing an unidentified person with knowledge of the discussions.  Glencore spokesman,  Simon Buerk , said the company doesn’t
comment on speculation, while ENRC declined to comment. Glencore
gained 2.8 percent to 523.4 pence.  Kazakhmys, Kazakhstan’s biggest copper producer, increased
2.2 percent to 1,235 pence.  Banco Popolare Rallies  Banco Popolare climbed 1.3 percent to 1.61 euros in Milan.
Il Corriere della Sera reported that the Italian lender may sell
branches in the  Czech Republic  and its Agos Ducato unit to boost
capital to avoid the need for a rights offer.  Credit Agricole SA may be among the companies interested in
buying Agos, the Italian newspaper said without saying where it
got the information.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  rose 1.4 percent to 47.6 pence.
The Sunday Times reported that the bank may cut 15,000 jobs as
part of a strategy to save 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) to be
announced by Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio on
June 30. The newspaper did not say where it got the information.
Lloyds spokeswoman Sarah Swailes declined to comment when
contacted by telephone yesterday.  Separately, Sky News reported that Bank of China Ltd.
requested details about the 600-plus branches that Lloyds will
sell in advance of a possible bid for the network. Sky did not
cite a source for the information.  Carnival, Renault, Peugeot  Carnival dropped 2 percent to 2,254 pence after the world’s
biggest cruise-ship operator said popular revolts in the Middle
East and north Africa and the earthquake in Japan will cost the
company 15 cents a share in the second half of 2011. Increases
in fuel prices net of currency effects will cost Carnival about
5 cents per share in the second half.  Renault SA (RNO) , which owns a 43 percent stake in Japan’s Nissan
Motor Co., fell 1.6 percent to 35.82 euros after Citigroup Inc.
lowered its recommendation for the carmaker to “hold” from
“buy.” Analysts also cut their share price estimate by 28
percent to 43 euros.  Citigroup instead upgraded PSA Peugeot Citroen to “buy”
from “hold,” sending the shares up 1.9 percent to 27.97 euros.  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT)  slid 1.4 percent to 2,056 pence
after Europe’s second-biggest tobacco company said reduced
cigarette prices in  Spain  will restrain full-year profit.  Imperial Tobacco’s adjusted operating profit from Spain may
drop as much as 110 million pounds from its previous prediction
for the year ending Sept. 30.  Aggreko Plc (AGK)  sank 3.2 percent to 1,874 pence after Numis
Securities Ltd. downgraded the world’s largest provider of
mobile power supplies to “sell” from “hold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  