-- 
Dollar Falls Versus Euro, Yen as Stocks Gain Amid Demand for Higher Yields

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-06-13T21:03:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/euro-falls-to-record-low-versus-franc-as-leaders-clash-on-greece-s-bailout.html
The dollar dropped against a
majority of its most-traded counterparts as stocks advanced,
spurring investor demand for higher-yielding assets.  The greenback dropped against the euro and the yen before a
report tomorrow forecast to show U.S. retail sales declined in
May. The euro touched a record low versus the Swiss franc
earlier as concern increased that European leaders may not be
able to find common ground on a Greek bailout. New Zealand’s
dollar fell after its second-biggest city was struck by
aftershocks of the February earthquake.  “Equities found a bid and they turned positive and the
dollar was sold aggressively,” said  John McCarthy , director of
 currency trading  at ING Groep NV in New York. “People got a
little bit too short of euro, too short of Aussie, and they came
running back.” A short position is a bet than an asset will
decline in value.  The Dollar Index, which measures the greenback against the
currencies of its six major trade partners, fell 0.4 percent to
74.511 at 5:01 p.m. in New York. The yen strengthened 0.1
percent to 80.26 per dollar after earlier touching 80.69, the
lowest level since June 3.  The euro weakened 0.8 percent to a record low 1.20043
versus the franc, before trading at 1.20667. The euro fell as
much as 0.3 percent to $1.43, the weakest intraday level since
May 31, before trading at $1.4413.  Stocks, Retail  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent after
earlier falling by as much as 0.4 percent.  Retail sales in the U.S. fell 0.5 percent in May, the first
drop since June, according to the median estimate of 63
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The Commerce Department
will release the tomorrow.  Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President Jeffrey Lacker
said recent U.S. economic data have prompted him to reconsider
his forecast for growth.  The data are “causing us to rethink our outlook for
growth,” Lacker said to reporters after a speech today in
Roanoke, Virginia. “We could be stuck below trend for some
time,” he said.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  are at odds about
whether Greek bondholders should be compelled to incur losses in
the nation’s second bailout in 14 months.  Juncker Works  Luxembourg’s Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads
the group of euro-area finance ministers, said in an interview
on Radio Berlin-Brandenburg June 11 that any bailout for Greece
must include “voluntary” investor participation. Juncker is
trying to bridge the gap between Germany’s Schaeuble, who wants
Greek bondholders to accept longer maturities of up to seven
years on the debt, and Trichet, who said imposing losses on
creditors would be akin to a default.  European officials are racing to find a plan to stem
 Greece ’s debt crisis by June 24 while sharing the cost of an
added rescue with bondholders. Trichet signaled on June 9 that
the central bank may raise  interest rates  in July while
reiterating that inflation will fall below its 2 percent limit
next year.  The yen weakened versus most of its major peers after a
report showed  Japan ’s factory orders declined 3.3 percent in
April from March, when they rose 1 percent, the Cabinet Office
said today.  Bank of Japan   Two out of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News said
Bank of Japan policy makers meeting today and tomorrow may
decide to expand asset purchases, four said it may do so in
August, and all but one said the next BOJ move will be to ease.  New Zealand ’s dollar weakened after quakes with magnitudes
of 5.2 and 6.0 struck near Christchurch, according to the  U.S.
Geological Survey . In February, the city was devastated by a
magnitude-6.3 temblor that killed more than 180 people and
closed the central business district.  “The aftershock in Christchurch created all these new
fears of possibly more fiscal spending and more contraction in
the economy there,” said Boris Schlossberg, director of
research at online currency trader GFT Forex in New York. “If
you see further  risk aversion  flows, it’s very vulnerable to
drive all the way down to 80.”  The kiwi slumped as much as 1.2 percent before trading at
81.55 U.S. cents.  Sweden’s krona is joining the franc as a favored currency
for traders seeking to profit from  Germany ’s economic expansion
while avoiding the debt crisis roiling  Europe .  The krona may climb to its highest level in more than 10
years against the euro as the fastest growth in Europe spurs the
Riksbank to keep raising interest rates, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It’s a cheaper way to participate in
German growth than the traditional haven, the Swiss franc, which
is the most overvalued currency against the euro and the dollar
as measured by the relative cost of goods and services.  The Swedish currency reached its weakest level against the
euro this year, reaching 9.1339 per euro, the least since Dec.
14, before trading at 9.1187.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  