-- 
Europe’s ‘Last Dictator’ Must Choose IMF Aid or Control of Belarus Economy

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-06-14T16:08:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/europe-s-last-dictator-must-choose-imf-aid-or-control-of-belarus-economy.html
Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko may be forced to do what he has tried to avoid in
order to win further aid from the  International Monetary Fund :
relinquish control of the nation’s centralized economy.  The IMF said yesterday that the government must agree to
“structural reforms,” including allowing the Belarusian ruble
to trade freely, to qualify for more international aid.
Lukashenko told a government meeting June 9 that he wouldn’t let
the retail and currency markets “slip from state control.”  “It’s inevitable for Belarus to do the reform,” said
Sanna Kurronen, a Helsinki-based economist at Danske Bank A/S.
“If they accept the IMF advice, their position will improve.
The IMF would be a more benevolent companion” than Russia.  Belarus asked the IMF for its second bailout in two years
on top of a 10-year, $3 billion loan from its former Soviet
partners led by  Russia , which demanded the country sell $7.5
billion of assets to receive the financing. Lukashenko, dubbed
 Europe ’s “last dictator” by the administration of former U.S.
President  George W. Bush , has ruled Belarus since 1994.  Belarus is seeking help to cover a current-account deficit
that reached 16 percent of gross domestic product last year. The
government devalued the ruble by 36 percent against the dollar
May 23 after the world’s highest benchmark interest rate failed
to stem its plunge. A week later, the central bank raised the
rate by 2 percentage points to 16 percent.  The country needs $5.5 billion to defend the currency and
provide foreign exchange for priority needs such as natural-gas
imports, medicine and debt service, Jacob Nell, a Morgan Stanley
economist in Moscow, said in an e-mailed note dated June 7.  ‘All Actors’ Needed  The IMF and Belarus have begun talks on a new stand-by
loan, though there have been no “substantive discussions” on
the amount,  Chris Jarvis , head of the IMF mission in Belarus,
told reporters yesterday in Minsk, the capital. Any new program
would be for at least three years, he said. Belarus received
$3.5 billion in 2009 under a 15-month program.  “The main thing that is necessary is agreement on a strong
program that is sufficient to fix the problems Belarus faces,”
Jarvis said. “We would also have to be sure that all actors --
the president, government and national bank -- are committed to
that program.”  In addition to permitting the currency to float, Belarus
should freeze government salaries this year, sell state assets,
ease price controls, create a “well-functioning”  development
bank  and promote private enterprise, Jarvis said.  “In our view, the government has too many targets, some of
which are contradictory and overlap,” he said. “We would like
to see more freedom for enterprises and more incentives to work
with profit.”  ‘Right’ to Support  Lukashenko, 56, boosted the salaries of public workers by
about 50 percent and increased spending by 38 percent before the
December presidential election.  Belarus is entitled to additional aid from the IMF, Prime
Minister Mikhail Myasnikovich said in a statement after the
Washington-based lender’s news conference.  “We, as legal IMF members, have the right for the specific
support in difficult times,” Myasnikovich told Jarvis,
according to the statement posted on the government’s website.  Moody’s Investors Service rates Belarus’s sovereign debt
B2, five steps below investment grade and on par with Honduras
and  Venezuela . The Belarusian government’s dollar bond due 2015
rose today, pushing the yield down 14 basis points to 11.04
percent as of 7 p.m. in Minsk.  ‘Earth on Fire’  The country’s economic hardships are “of a structural
nature” and one-time loans of $3 billion won’t solve its
liquidity shortage, said  Barbara Nestor , an emerging-markets
economist at Commerzbank AG in London.  “The earth is on fire under their feet,” Nestor said. “A
better quality solution would involve the IMF and rebalancing
measures, which would also achieve better asset valuations. Low
asset valuation from Russia’s side is justified by the risk of
investing in a dysfunctional economy.”  State-owned assets that may be sold to satisfy Russia’s
demands include Belaruskali, a fertilizer maker, and OAO
Belinvestbank, the country’s fourth-largest lender by assets.  Belarus’s appeal for IMF aid may be complicated by
Lukashenko’s clampdown on political opponents.  Opposition presidential candidates were imprisoned after
last year’s election, prompting sanctions from the U.S. and
European Union. The government last week fined five
demonstrators after a protest against high fuel prices.  Regime Versus People  David Lidington, Britain’s minister for European affairs,
told parliament the government and its international partners
are considering their response to Belarus’s request.  “We have to take account of the need to get the balance
right between harming the regime and not trying to impoverish
further people who are already oppressed,” he said today.  The IMF board indicated in March that it would be willing
to approve a new program for Belarus that include “very strong
economic and structural measures,” Jarvis said.  “Let me say that the IMF set no political conditions for
its loans,” he said.  Lukashenko may be using the IMF request to drive up the
price of Belarusian assets for Russian buyers and other possible
bidders, said Timothy Ash, head of emerging-market research at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London .  Belaruskali is worth $30 billion, Lukashenko said June 10.
OAO Uralkali, Russia’s biggest fertilizer producer, was valued
at $18.9 billion at yesterday’s close.  “I cannot see Lukashenko doing what the IMF wants or the
IMF really trusting Lukashenko to deliver,” Ash said. “I also
wonder whether the fund will be more sensitive to criticism that
it is bailing out dictators who are not prepared to give
concessions on political reform.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  