-- 
Microsoft Objects to Nortel’s Proposed Patent Sale to Google

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-06-13T22:54:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/hewlett-packard-seeks-changes-to-nortel-s-proposed-patent-sale.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  objected to  Nortel
Networks Corp. (NRTLQ) ’s proposed bankruptcy sale of more than 6,000
patents, telling a judge the deal could give the proposed buyer,
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , an unfair competitive advantage.  Microsoft joined computer maker  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,
smartphone maker  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , and other technology companies in
filing objections to the proposed auction of the patent
portfolio, in which Google is the lead bidder.  Microsoft and HP said the terms of the proposed sale should
be modified to protect the rights of license holders and
standard-setting bodies.  Without changes, the proposed sale “would result in
considerable disruption in the development and enhancement of
various existing technologies and give the prospective purchaser
an unfair competitive advantage,” Microsoft said today in court
papers filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Nortel, a Canadian phone-equipment maker that filed for
bankruptcy in January 2009, agreed to sell the patents to Google
for $900 million unless a competitor bids more at the auction,
scheduled for later this month. Today is the deadline for bids
to be submitted.  The portfolio will give the winning bidder rights to
control and license technologies including wireless-video that
may be valuable for future generations of smartphones such as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry.  Purchase Contract  Whoever wins the auction should be required to clarify what
rights companies and standard-setting groups may have to keep
using Nortel’s patented technology, Microsoft, HP and Nokia said
in court papers they filed separately.  In the proposed sale contract Google has agreed to buy the
patents “subject to” most existing licenses, according to court
papers.  That term is too vague to guarantee that every license
Nortel granted related to the patents will be honored, HP said
in its court papers.  Lisa M. Schweitzer, an attorney for Nortel, declined to
comment.  Nortel’s 10 1/8th bonds due in 2013 rose more than 1
percent to 93.875, the highest price since the company filed
bankruptcy according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 