-- 
Ex-Ohio State Quarterback Terrelle Pryor Signs With Agent Drew Rosenhaus

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-06-13T18:03:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/ex-ohio-state-quarterback-terrelle-pryor-signs-with-agent-drew-rosenhaus.html
Former  Ohio State University 
quarterback Terrelle Pryor hired Drew Rosenhaus as his agent,
making the player ineligible for collegiate competition and
possibly preparing his entry into the National Football League
supplemental draft.  An agreement between Pryor, 21, and Rosenhaus became
official today, Pryor’s lawyer, Larry James of  Crabbe, Brown &
James LLP , said in an e-mail. Rosenhaus, whom Sports Illustrated
magazine ranked among the most powerful NFL agents in October,
didn’t respond to a voicemail left at his office seeking
comment.  Pryor has notified Ohio State of his decision, making the
quarterback ineligible under National Collegiate Athletic
Association rules, James said. The move clears the way for the
quarterback, who on June 8 announced his intentions to skip his
senior year, to enter the NFL supplemental draft.  Pryor was one of five Ohio State football players suspended
in December for five games next season for selling team
memorabilia to a Columbus, Ohio, tattoo parlor owner. The NCAA
and Ohio State are also investigating whether Pryor received
cars and other benefits in violation of NCAA rules, the Columbus
Dispatch reported May 29.  Jim Tressel resigned as the Buckeyes’ coach the next day
following an NCAA investigation that revealed he failed to tell
the school what he knew about the players’ actions. Tressel, who
was 106-22 with a national championship in 11 years at the
Columbus school, was previously suspended for the first five
games of the 2011 season and fined $250,000.  ‘Heavy Hearts’  In his commencement address in Ohio Stadium yesterday for
the school’s 9,700 graduates, Ohio State President E. Gordon Gee
said “many Buckeye hearts are heavy” over the football
violations and that things would change.  “On rare occasion, this great grand building has been home
to disappointment and tumult,” Gee said, according to the New
York Times. “That is but a temporary condition.”  Ohio State spokesman Jerry Emig didn’t immediately respond
to a voicemail left at his office seeking comment on Pryor’s
hiring of an agent.  The supplemental draft, held for players who miss the
filing deadline for the  NFL Draft  in April or have complications
involving NCAA eligibility, will be held next month if there are
any applicants, ESPN reported on June 1, citing an unidentified
league official.  Pryor compiled a 31-4 record as a starter while leading
Ohio State to three Big Ten Conference titles and wins in the
Sugar Bowl and  Rose Bowl .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  