-- 
U.S. Regulator Says Taxpayers Still at Risk From Fannie, Freddie

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-06-13T19:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/fannie-mae-freddie-mac-remain-risks-to-taxpayers-u-s-regulator-reports.html
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , the
mortgage companies operating under U.S. control, are improving
their financial condition but remain a risk to taxpayers, the
companies’ regulator reported.  In its third annual report to Congress released today, the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency  said improved underwriting on the
loans that the companies package into mortgage-backed securities
helped slow the agencies’ losses to $28 billion in 2010, from
$93.6 billion a year earlier.  “Although past business decisions leading to these losses
cannot be undone, each enterprise, under the oversight and
guidance of FHFA as conservator and regulator, has improved
underwriting standards for loan purchases in the past two
years,”  Edward DeMarco, acting director of the Federal Housing
Finance Agency, said in the  report .  Still, DeMarco said, the companies “remain critical
supervisory concerns,” largely because of a backlog of bad
loans originated from 2005 to 2007.  The government-run enterprises, which own or guarantee more
than half of the $10 trillion U.S. mortgage market, operated as
private companies before they were taken into government
conservatorship in September 2008 after soaring losses linked to
subprime home loans. Since then, Washington-based Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac of McLean,  Virginia , have survived on a promise of
unlimited U.S. aid and drawn more than $160 billion in Treasury
Department funding.  Freddie Mac in May posted a $676 million profit for the
three months that ended March 31 before paying a $1.6 billion
quarterly dividend to the Treasury.  Fannie Mae  reported a $6.5
billion loss in the first quarter and sought $8.5 billion in
aid.  Preventing Foreclosures  While the management of both companies is focused on
minimizing losses to taxpayers, the two GSEs are also under a
mandate to help prevent home foreclosures. Together, Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac completed 950,000 loan modifications or other
alternatives to foreclosure for homeowners delinquent on their
mortgage payments, the report said.  The Treasury and Republicans in Congress have proposed ways
to phase out the companies and the government guarantee of their
bonds.  The two enterprises guaranteed 70 percent of the single-
family mortgage-backed securities issued in 2010, an amount the
report described as “not optimal.”  “The enterprises cannot remain in conservatorship
permanently, and expanding private sector capital and
participation is essential for the long-term health of the
mortgage market,” the report said.  The FHFA, which also oversees the nation’s 12  Federal Home
Loan Banks , said in the report that all of those banks reported
positive earnings for 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 