-- 
Farming Needs ‘Major Shift’ as Food System Fails, UN Farming Agency Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-06-13T10:59:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/farming-needs-major-shift-as-food-system-fails-un-farming-agency-says.html
World farming needs a “major
shift” to more sustainable practices as intensive crop
production since the 1960s has degraded soils, depleted ground
water and caused pest outbreaks, the  United Nations  said.  More farmers need to reduce ploughing and alternate
cereals with soil-improving plants, and use an “ecosystem
approach” based on natural systems to promote crop growth, save
water and fight pests, the UN’s Rome-based Food and Agriculture
Organization said in a guide to policy makers published today.  The so-called  Green Revolution  that started in the 1950s
and spread in the 1960s introduced more productive wheat, corn
and rice varieties and relied on “high levels” of fertilizer
and pesticides, the UN agency said. That boosted cereal yields
and food production, saving an estimated 1 billion people from
famine and jump-starting Asian economies, the FAO said.  “Those enormous gains in agricultural production and
productivity were often accompanied by negative effects on
agriculture’s natural resource base, so serious that they
jeopardize its productive potential in the future,” the FAO
said in the book on farming, “Save and Grow.”  Salt Build-Up  Negative effects include land degradation, salt build-up
in irrigated areas, depletion of groundwater, pest resistance
and pollution, according to the agency.  “It is also clear that the current  food production  and
distribution systems are failing to feed the world,” the FAO
said. “The number of undernourished people in 2010 was
estimated at 925 million, higher than it was 40 years ago.”  The world population is forecast to climb to 9.2 billion
in 2050 from an estimated 6.9 billion in 2010, requiring a 70
percent jump in world agricultural production, the FAO said.
With “virtually no spare land” in parts of Asia and  Africa ,
yield increases and more intensive cropping will be needed, the
agency said.  Between 2015 and 2030, “an estimated 80 percent of the
required food production increases will have to come from
intensification in the form of yield increases and higher
cropping intensities,” the FAO said.  About 70 percent of the area that is available to increase
agricultural production, mostly in sub-Saharan Africa and  Latin
America , suffers from soil and terrain constraints, according
to the FAO.  Water Needs  Ecosystem-based farming practices will “help to reduce
crops’ water needs by 30 percent and the energy costs of
production by up to 60 percent,” according to the FAO.  The use of agricultural commodities in the production of
biofuels including ethanol and biodiesel will grow, the UN
said. Food costs rose to a record in February this year, UN
data show. Corn has gained 91 percent in the past year, wheat
is up 66 percent in  Chicago  and rice has gained 35 percent.  “Changes in demand will drive the need for significant
increases in production of all major food and feed crops,”
according to the book. “The food price spike of 2008 and the
surge in food prices to record levels early in 2011 portend
rising and more frequent threats to world food security.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 