-- 
FDIC Official Says Systemic Firms May Be Forced to Restructure

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-06-13T21:04:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/fdic-says-systemically-important-u-s-firms-may-be-forced-to-restructure.html
Systemically important financial
institutions in the U.S. may have to simplify their business if
they can’t provide viable plans for unwinding themselves in a
crisis, a senior Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. official said.  “Ultimately, a SIFI could be required to restructure its
operations if it cannot demonstrate it is resolvable in an
orderly manner under the  Bankruptcy Code ,” Michael Krimminger,
the FDIC’s chief counsel, will tell a House Financial Services
subcommittee  tomorrow  at a hearing in Washington.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires firms deemed systemically
important to file plans with the FDIC and the  Federal Reserve ,
laying out how they could be resolved if they should collapse.
Lawmakers gave the FDIC authority to resolve complex firms
aiming to prevent a repeat of the market tumult that followed
the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Krimminger, in prepared testimony for a Financial
Institutions subcommittee hearing on whether Dodd-Frank has
ended the idea that some firms are “too big to fail,” said the
FDIC anticipates systemic firms will “pursue the resolution
planning process in a way to meet statutory requirements.”  Companies with at least $50 billion in assets will be
required to provide information on debt, funding, capital and
cash flows. Firms that fail to file workable resolution plans
could be subject to increased capital, leverage or liquidity
requirements, and restrictions on growth or operations.  Stability Council  The  Financial Stability Oversight Council , the panel of
regulators that will determine which firms are systemically
important, must provide clarity for market participants on what
would dictate the designation and the increased oversight that
comes with it, Krimminger said in his statement.  “The lack of specificity and certainty in the designation
process is itself a burden on the industry and an impediment to
prompt and effective implementation of the designation
process,” he said. “That is why it is important that the FSOC
move forward and develop some hard metrics.”  House and Senate Republicans have faulted the 10-member
stability panel -- which includes the heads of the Fed, the FDIC
and the U.S. Treasury Department -- for a lack of clarity in
proposed rulemaking for the designation process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  