-- 
First Utility May Double Customers in Year as U.K. Alters Rules

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-06-13T12:55:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/first-utility-may-double-customers-in-year-as-u-k-alters-rules.html
First Utility Ltd. , a British
energy-supply company, said it may double its number of
customers in the next 12 months as the government changes rules
for suppliers to boost competition.  Companies with 250,000 customers or fewer won’t have to
comply with rules through 2012 aimed at reducing energy
consumption that add costs to suppliers, the U.K.’s department
of energy and climate change said in a  statement  on its website
today. The previous threshold was 50,000 clients.  This will allow us to “double our numbers in the next
twelve months,” Darren Braham, chief financial officer of
Warwick, England-based First Utility, said in a telephone
interview. The company has about 60,000 customers, mostly for
both natural gas and electricity, which may rise to 125,000
dual-fuel customers under the new rules, he said.  Minimum requirements were cut under both the Carbon
Emissions Reductions Target and the Community Energy Savings
Program. Raising the number of customers allowed before
compliance with targets is aimed at improving competition, the
government said.  “Reducing red tape for smaller suppliers will help them
grow and encourage new players into the market,”  Charles Hendry , U.K. energy minister, said in the statement. “Increased
competition can help bring down prices and encourage innovation,
benefiting energy consumers.”  The U.K. energy market is dominated by six companies that
generate and supply electricity and gas. They are  Centrica Plc (CNA) ,
 Scottish & Southern Energy Plc (SSE) , EON AG,  RWE AG (RWE) ,  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s
Scottish Power and Electricite de France SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  