-- 
Foreign Aid May Help Egypt Pound Stability, Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-06-13T14:51:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/foreign-aid-may-help-egypt-pound-stability-morgan-stanley-says.html
The Egyptian pound may return to
stability with the help of international aid to the country,
 Morgan Stanley & Co . said.  “It has been made very clear that external support will be
forthcoming,” James Lord, an emerging-markets strategist at
Morgan Stanley, wrote in an e-mail. “No one wants to see an
economic crisis in Egypt and exchange rate stability will be
ensured to help avoid that scenario.”  The currency has fallen 2.5 percent since the start of
popular uprisings in January that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak . Central Bank Deputy Governor Hisham Ramez said on May
25 the central bank has intervened once to prevent the pound
from weakening since the revolt began on Jan. 25. Egypt’s
foreign currency reserves lost $800 million in May from the
previous month to $27.2 billion. They had reached a record $36
billion in December.  The Egyptian pound was unchanged at 5.942 per dollar at
3:13 p.m. in Cairo. The currency’s 12-month non-deliverable
forwards, which provide a guide to market expectations, lost 0.5
percent to 6.525.  The pound may weaken to 6.15 by year-end, according to the
median estimate of five analysts compiled by Bloomberg over the
past month.  Egypt ’s 5.75 percent 10-year dollar bond fell,
pushing the yield 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
higher to 5.71 percent, the highest since June 1.  The pound still faces a devaluation risk because of
“political developments,” wrote London-based Lord. “A stable
currency over the long term will require greater efforts to
reform the fiscal position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 