-- 
Ex-Galleon Group Trader Zvi Goffer Found Guilty by Jury of Insider Trading

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-14T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/former-galleon-trader-zvi-goffer-convicted-on-all-counts-of-inside-trading.html
Zvi Goffer , the ex-Galleon Group LLC
hedge fund trader, was convicted with his brother and a third
defendant on all counts by a jury in the second trial to result
from a nationwide crackdown by the U.S. on insider trading.  Goffer was convicted yesterday in federal court in
Manhattan of all 14 counts of conspiracy and securities fraud
against him. His brother Emanuel and Michael Kimelman were each
convicted of the three conspiracy and securities fraud counts
they faced.  “It was a very difficult case,” juror Susan Apter of
Westchester County, New York, said outside the courthouse. “The
government had a great case.”  The verdict comes about a month after Zvi Goffer’s former
boss, Galleon co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , was found guilty in the
same courthouse of directing the biggest hedge fund  insider-
trading scheme  in history. Goffer’s jury began its deliberations
June 2.  Rajaratnam and Zvi Goffer were key players in three
overlapping insider-trading conspiracies that implicated banks,
technology firms,  hedge funds  and so-called expert networking
firms.  Goffer, 34, his brother and Kimelman were charged with
using tips from two lawyers to profit on trades in 3Com Corp.,
Axcan Pharma Inc., Kronos Inc. and Hilton Hotels Corp. Jurors
heard recordings of wiretapped phone calls and testimony from
witnesses who pleaded guilty in the case and were cooperating
with the government.  Tips from Lawyers  Prosecutors said the three men, who co-founded Incremental
Capital LLC after Zvi Goffer was fired by New York-based Galleon
in 2008, used information that the lawyers, then working at the
Boston-based law firm Ropes & Gray LLP, learned about pending
acquisitions through their work there.  After the verdict was read, Zvi Goffer dabbed his eyes with
a tissue. His wife left the courtroom weeping.  “We’re disappointed in the verdict,” said William Barzee,
a lawyer for Goffer. “It was a difficult case.” He said his
client will appeal.  David Pettus, another lawyer for Goffer, said after the
verdict that his team tried to pursue the opposite strategy from
that followed by Rajaratnam’s lawyers. Instead of presenting
extensive evidence on the defense case, Goffer’s team focused on
trying to undercut the government’s evidence and the cooperating
witnesses, he said.  Pettus noted that both cases had similar results:
conviction on all counts.  “I guess there’s no defense that’ll work when your guy’s
on tape,” he said.  ‘Difficult Case’  After the verdict, jurors declined to be interviewed by the
defense lawyers in the case.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission claimed in a
related lawsuit that the alleged scheme resulted in at least
$20 million in illicit profits. Fourteen people were charged in
the purported  insider-trading  ring. Ten pleaded guilty, and one
is a fugitive.  Zvi Goffer’s lawyers argued their client sometimes bluffed
about having inside information to impress other Wall Street
traders. Lawyers for Emanuel Goffer and Kimelman said that their
clients weren’t part of any alleged conspiracy with Zvi Goffer.  They face as long as 20 years in prison on the most serious
charges when they’re sentenced by U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan , who presided over the trial. Zvi Goffer’s sentencing
is set for Sept. 21. His brother’s sentencing was to be set for
two days later, until one of the lawyers told the judge that’s
when Emanuel Goffer’s wife is due to give birth. He and Kimelman
will both be sentenced Oct. 7. All three defendants remain free
on bond pending sentencing.  Rajaratnam Verdict  Rajaratnam, who was convicted on all 14 counts against him,
faces as long as 19 1/2 years in prison when he’s sentenced on
July 29.  In addition to the Rajaratnam and Goffer trading schemes, a
third ring allegedly centered on so-called expert networkers is
the focus of a trial under way in  Manhattan  federal court. A
former Primary Global Research LLC consultant, Winifred Jiau,
faces insider-trading charges for allegedly giving inside
information to financial industry clients at hedge funds.  At Goffer’s trial, which began May 18, former Ropes & Gray
attorney Brien Santarlas told jurors that he and another lawyer
at the firm, Arthur Cutillo, used prepaid mobile phones to pass
on news about pending mergers in exchange for envelopes stuffed
with cash.  Prosecutors said the lawyers gave the tips to Jason
Goldfarb, a  Brooklyn , New York, lawyer who passed the
information to Zvi Goffer.  Honeymoon, Kitchen  In a Jan. 2, 2008, wiretap, Zvi Goffer is heard calling
himself “responsible for a honeymoon and a kitchen” in a
conversation with Goldfarb. Prosecutors told jurors that Goffer
was referring to the $25,000 he gave to Santarlas and Cutillo
for tips on a deal involving 3Com. Goldfarb, Santarlas and
Cutillo all pleaded guilty.  Prosecutors said the ring also traded on tips from Gautham Shankar, an ex-trader at New York-based Schottenfeld Group LLC.
Shankar pleaded guilty to two criminal counts in 2009 and has
yet to be sentenced. On June 8, Shankar was ordered by a judge
in the SEC’s lawsuit to pay almost $278,000.  Zvi Goffer used the tips to impress Rajaratnam and to get a
job at Galleon, where he worked for part of 2008, according to
the government.  Prosecutors told jurors that Zvi Goffer made incriminating
phone calls in the presence of Emanuel Goffer and Kimelman, in
which he discussed the sources of the insider tips and ways to
mislead regulators who might ask questions about their trades.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  