-- 
From Vermont to Florida, the Great Health-Care Bake-Off: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-13T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/from-vermont-to-florida-the-great-health-care-bake-off-view.html
Vermont has an idea for health care.
It wants to adopt a single-payer plan.  Florida  has an idea for
health care, too. It wants to privatize Medicaid. One approach
puts its faith in government, the other in market forces.
Although the plans couldn’t be more different, they have one
thing in common: Both need waivers from the Obama administration
to deviate from existing laws.  Given the urgency of U.S. health-care woes, the government
would do well to allow these diametrically opposed experiments
to go forward.  In Vermont, Democratic Governor Peter Shumlin  signed into
law  a plan that would offer insurance to the state’s 620,000
residents, including those without coverage and those on
Medicaid. A five-member board, appointed by the governor, would
determine benefits and set doctor and hospital payment rates.
The state is considering paying for the plan with a 12.5 percent
 payroll tax . Employers that offer health insurance would not be
exempt from contributing.  Florida has a different approach. With the support of
Republican Governor  Rick Scott , the Legislature voted to seek a
block grant from Washington that would let the state shift
almost all its Medicaid population into private, managed-care
plans. Starting in July 2012, the state would be divided into 11
regions, and insurers and other health plans, including doctor
and hospital networks, could compete for business in any or all
of them. Recipients would have to pay $10 a month, plus a $100
copayment for showing up at an emergency room for non-emergency
care. The  Florida law  would limit malpractice awards by capping
pain and suffering payouts at $300,000, well below the $500,000
allowed other state residents.  Pros and Cons  Not surprisingly, both plans have strong support -- and
strong opposition.  Vermont ’s backers talk about volume discounts
and big savings in time spent on paperwork and not having to
keep shareholders happy; its detractors argue that the payroll
tax will drive business from the state and raise unemployment.
Backers of the Florida plan cite managed care’s power to drive
down costs and track patients; opponents reply that health-care
providers will scrimp on care.  The fact is, there are good arguments on all sides, and we
have little idea whether either plan will work. We don’t know if
a state can insure most of its residents without going broke.
And studies are inconclusive on whether a state can both demand
that health plans cut costs and protect the quality of care.  Grant Waivers  To that end, the Obama administration should, as a waiver
condition, require both states to adhere to a so-called medical-
loss ratio, meaning they must spend a percentage of revenue, to
be set in consultation with  Washington , on patient care. The
administration should also require regular evaluations to know
whether the experiments are working and to allow for
corrections.  It could be, in fact, that neither the Florida nor the
Vermont plan will pan out. Maybe the solution will lie in the
experiment proposed by Christine Gregoire, Washington’s
Democratic governor, who wants to convert her Medicaid program
into a block grant, giving the state freedom to change
eligibility rules that federal law now bars. All three state
experiments deserve to be approved; chances are, they’ll tell us
many things we don’t know.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 