-- 
Gay Judge’s California Same-Sex Marriage Ruling Upheld After Bias Claim

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-06-15T05:10:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/gay-judge-s-california-marriage-ruling-should-be-invalid-attorneys-say.html
A decision overturning California’s
ban on same-sex marriage remains valid even though the federal
judge who issued it didn’t disclose that he is gay and recuse
himself before taking the case, another federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge James Ware in  San Francisco  said former
U.S. District Judge Vaughn Walker didn’t have to disqualify
himself from a trial over the constitutionality of California’s
Proposition 8 ban on gay weddings and doing so would have set a
“pernicious precedent” that would harm the integrity of the
U.S. judicial system.  “The presumption that Judge Walker, by virtue of being in
a same-sex relationship, had a desire to be married that
rendered him incapable of making an impartial decision, is as
warrantless as the presumption that a female judge is incapable
of being impartial in a case in which women seek legal relief,”
Ware said in his ruling yesterday.  “It is reasonable to presume that a female judge or a
judge in a same-sex relationship is capable of rising above any
personal predisposition and deciding such a case on the
merits,” Ware said.  He denied a request by proponents of Proposition 8 to void
Walker’s August ruling. At a June 13 hearing, lawyers for the
measure’s supporters said that because Walker had a potential
interest in the outcome, he shouldn’t have presided over last
year’s trial, the first federal proceeding over whether it is
legal to ban people of the same sex from marrying.  ‘Powerful Ruling’  “This is a powerful ruling that makes clear that gay and
lesbian judges have the same presumption of fairness and
impartiality” as other judges, Theodore Boutrous, an attorney
for gay couples who sued to overturn Proposition 8, said
yesterday in a conference call. “The proponents were really
asking to put what the court said was inordinate burdens on
minority judges.”  Two gay men who married before the ban was passed won the
right in another court in  California  to file for bankruptcy as a
couple in a ruling in which 20 judges said the U.S. Defense of
Marriage Act was unconstitutional.  The ban on federal recognition of same-sex marriage can’t
prevent a gay couple from filing a joint bankruptcy, a panel of
judges ruled in the case of Gene Douglas Balas and Carlos A.
Morales, who were one of about 18,000 gay couples wed in the
state before the ban.  Balas supplied most of the couple’s income from his
$200,000-a-year job in the financial industry before he was laid
off in March 2009, he said in court records. The couple filed
for bankruptcy in February after exhausting their savings and
retirement accounts.  Bankruptcy Rights  “This case is about equality, regardless of gender or
sexual orientation,” according to the June 13 ruling in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Los Angeles. “In this court’s judgment, no
legally married couple should be entitled to fewer bankruptcy
rights than any other legally married couple.”  The U.S. Defense of Marriage Act bans federal agencies from
recognizing marriages between same-sex couples. The judges, in
their decision, ruled that the 1996 law violates the Fifth
Amendment of the Constitution by treating married gay couples
differently from married opposite-sex couples.  Attorneys for Proposition 8 proponents said they would
appeal the ruling upholding Walker’s ruling in San Francisco.  ProtectMarriage.com  “The ProtectMarriage.com legal team obviously disagrees
with” the ruling,  Charles Cooper , lead counsel for the
measure’s sponsors, said in an e-mailed statement. “Our legal
team will appeal this decision and continue our tireless efforts
to defend the will of the people of California to preserve
marriage as the union of a man and a woman.”  Walker, now retired from the bench, ruled there was
“overwhelming” evidence that Proposition 8, the 2008 amendment
to California’s constitution that states marriage is only
between a man and a woman, violates equal protection rights.  Walker disclosed in April that he has been in a 10-year
relationship with a man. He said he never considered recusing
himself from the Proposition 8 case and didn’t consider his
relationship relevant to it. Walker’s ruling was put on hold
pending an appeal.  Ware said the Proposition 8 case could affect the general
public in California, though it was based on the characteristics
of just some Californians.  “The fact that a federal judge happens to share the same
circumstances or characteristics and will only be affected in a
similar manner because the judge is a member of the public is
not a basis for disqualifying the judge,” he ruled.  Appeal Process  Before it deals with the question of whether Walker’s
ruling was erroneous, a federal appeals court in San Francisco
said it first needs the California Supreme Court to weigh in on
whether the measure’s proponents had the right to defend the law
at trial when state officials refused to. Proposition 8 was
passed by 52 percent of voters in 2008.  Boutrous said yesterday’s ruling could be appealed and an
appellate panel would have to consider whether Proposition 8
supporters have “standing” to challenge Ware’s decision.  In the bankruptcy case, the Office of the U.S. Trustee
asked a judge to throw it out. The trustee’s office, which
oversees bankruptcies, argued that because Balas and Morales are
men, the Defense of Marriage Act prohibits the court from
recognizing them as a married couple.  Obama, Boehner  President  Barack Obama ’s administration stopped defending
the law in courts, saying it unconstitutionally discriminates
against gays and lesbians. That decision prompted House Speaker
 John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, to authorize the House’s top
lawyer to take over that task.  The House Bipartisan Legal Advisory Group, working with the
U.S. Trustee, didn’t intervene in the case though it said it was
considering doing so, according to the June 13 opinion.  Michael Steel , a spokesman for Boehner, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment yesterday.  The case is Perry v. Schwarzenegger, 3:09-cv-02292, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).
The bankruptcy case is In re Gene Douglas Balas, 11-17831, U.S
Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  