-- 
GE Joins Apple in Urging Congress to Let Patent Office Keep Fees

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-06-13T19:30:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/ge-joins-apple-in-urging-congress-to-let-patent-office-keep-fees.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the AFL-CIO and  Yale
University  were among businesses, unions and universities urging
House lawmakers to include a provision in pending legislation
that would let the U.S. patent agency control its own funding.  More than 150 companies, schools and groups sent a letter
today to House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, and
Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, expressing
their support for letting the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
keep all the fees it collects from users.  The letter signers said that while they have differing
views on other parts of the patent-overhaul legislation, they
all support the funding provision because the patent office,
“may be the single greatest facilitator of private sector job
creation and economic growth in America.”  The House measure, H.R. 1249, similar to a Senate bill
passed in March, seeks to end lawmakers’ longstanding practice
of diverting fees collected by the patent office to steer them
toward non-patent purposes. Representative  Paul Ryan , a
Wisconsin Republican who heads the House Budget Committee, and
Harold Rogers, a Kentucky Republican leading the House
Appropriations Committee, have objected to the funding provision
and urged that it be dropped from the bill.  Ryan and Rogers wrote in a June 6 letter to Representative
 Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican and chairman of the Judiciary
Committee, that the provision would limit congressional control
of the patent office. In response, Senator  Tom Coburn , an
Oklahoma Republican who sponsored the fee provision in the
Senate bill, said the provision’s wording ensures there would be
oversight of the agency and its budget.  No Tax Dollars  The agency receives no tax dollars and is funded entirely
by fees. If it collects more than is budgeted, that money
typically goes to the government’s general fund for other
purposes. In 2009, it collected less than what was budgeted and
was forced to cut overtime and instituted a hiring freeze to
make up the shortfall.  The House bill would establish a fund to ensure money
collected from applicants and owners of patents and trademarks
can be used only for agency operations. Patent Office Director
David Kappos has said a secured funding source is needed to
reduce a backlog of 700,000 applications awaiting a first review
and to cut the average 34-month wait for obtaining a patent.  The funding provision has united organizations that
represent diverging interests, such as the United Steelworkers
union and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and companies in a range
of U.S. industries, including medical-device maker  Boston
Scientific Corp. (BSX)  and computer maker  Dell Inc. (DELL)   ‘Hidden Tax’  The provision “is necessary because over the last two
decades more than $875 million in user fees has been redirected
to other governmental purposes in what amounts to a hidden tax
on innovation,” the groups and companies including  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  wrote.  Massachusetts Institute of Technology ,  Vanderbilt
University  and  Johns Hopkins University  were among the schools
that signed the letter, as were venture-capital companies New
Venture Advisors and Orthopedic Venture Partners.  A separate letter calling for an end to the fee diversion
was signed by the general counsels of Apple,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,
 Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Micron Technology Inc.,  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL) ,  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , SAP AG and  Symantec Corp. (SYMC)   “Our user fees are not tax dollars to be added to the
general fund and appropriated for any other purpose,” the
general counsels wrote. “They are set to cover the cost of the
services we require in order to issue quality patents in a
timely manner and protect innovation.”  ‘Special Interest’ Proposal  Representatives John Conyers, a Michigan Democrat, and
James Sensenbrenner, a Wisconsin Republican, who support letting
the patent office keep its fees, nonetheless wrote a letter
today asking colleagues to vote against the bill, calling it a
“special interest” proposal that “benefits foreign
multinationals over U.S. inventors.”  The letter instead singles out other provisions, including
a switch to grant patents to the first person to file
applications, allowing special challenges to finance-related
business method patents, curtailing suits over products marked
with expired patents, and increasing the amount of time that
someone could claim they were already using an invention as a
defense against a patent, which Conyers and Sensenbrenner said
would lead to more  trade secrets .  Amendments to the legislation are due by 7 p.m. today, and
the House Rules Committee will meet tomorrow to set terms for
floor debate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  