-- 
Glaxo, Valeant Epilepsy Drug Wins U.S. Backing as Add-On

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-06-13T07:17:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/glaxo-valeant-epilepsy-drug-wins-u-s-backing-as-add-on.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  Valeant
Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)  won U.S. approval for an
epilepsy drug designed as an add-on therapy for patients who
aren’t helped by current treatments.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the medicine,
chemically known as ezogabine, the companies said today in a
statement. The FDA delayed a decision on the product, to be
marketed as Potiga, twice last year.  More than 2 million people in the U.S. have been diagnosed
with  epilepsy  or suffered from an unprovoked seizure, according
to the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke.
London-based Glaxo and Valeant estimate that a third of patients
can’t control seizures with current epilepsy medicines, leading
to disability and an unsatisfactory quality of life.  “We are so pleased to reach such an important milestone
with the U.S. approval of Potiga by the FDA,” said Susan Hall,
Valeant’s head of research and development. “This product will
play a needed role in the management of partial onset seizures
in appropriate patients who are uncontrolled on their current
medications.”  Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, bought global
marketing rights to ezogabine from Valeant in 2008.  The
medicine acts on the brain’s potassium channel, controlling
nerve cells so they don’t become over-stimulated and cause a
seizure. Most current drugs regulate sodium or calcium channels.  Controlled Substance  Valeant, based in Mississauga, Ontario, fell 97 cents, or
1.8 percent, to close at $52.83 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading on June 10. Glaxo shares fell 4 pence, or 0.3
percent, to 1,272.5 pence at 8:10 a.m. in  London .  Meda AB (MEDAA) , of
Solna,  Sweden , which discovered the drug and is entitled to
royalties, climbed 1.30 kronor, or 2 percent, to 67.30 kronor.  The FDA recommended that ezogabine be considered a
controlled substance, so the U.S. Drug Enforcement
Administration is reviewing how the drug should be classified,
the companies said. Ezogabine won’t be available until that
process is finished, though it should be in pharmacies by the
end of the year, according to the statement.  An FDA advisory panel recommended in August that ezogabine
worked as an add-on treatment and that bladder blockage, a side
effect seen in studies, could be controlled by monitoring
patients. The medicine won the backing of a European Union
regulatory panel in January.  Ezogabine may bring in sales of $235 million for Glaxo in
2015, according to the average estimate of four analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. One analyst projected $40 million in
revenue for Valeant that year. The drug is known as retigabine
outside the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 