-- 
Greece Branded With World’s Lowest Credit Rating by S&P on Default Threat

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-06-13T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/greece-s-long-term-rating-cut-to-ccc-by-s-p-on-outlook-for-restructuring.html
Greece  was branded with the world’s
lowest credit rating by  Standard & Poor’s , which said the nation
is “increasingly likely” to face a debt restructuring and the
first sovereign default in the euro area’s history.  The move to CCC from B reflects “our view that there is a
significantly higher likelihood of one or more defaults,” S&P
said in a statement yesterday. “Risks for the implementation of
Greece’s EU/IMF borrowing program are rising, given Greece’s
increased financing needs and ongoing internal political
disagreements surrounding the policy conditions required.”  Greece’s government, which plans to sell 1.25 billion euros
($1.8 billion) of 26-week Treasury bills today, said that the
downgrade overlooked “intense” talks between European
officials to address the nation’s financing needs. Credit-
default swaps on Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  surged to records
yesterday on concern governments’ struggles to resolve the
turmoil will threaten their ability to pay their debts.  “Greece will default -- it’s a question of when, rather
than if,” Vincent Truglia, Managing Director at New York-based 
Granite Springs Asset Management LLP and a former head of the 
sovereign risk unit at Moody’s, said in an interview. “It’s a 
basic solvency issue rather than a liquidity issue. Only a debt 
writedown will do.”  Swaps on Greece jumped 47 basis points to an all-time high
of 1,610 as of 5:30 p.m. yesterday in London after the S&P
downgrade, according to CMA. Contracts on Ireland soared 27
basis points to 740, Portugal climbed 22 to 764 and the Markit
iTraxx SovX Western  Europe  Index of swaps on 15 governments
jumped 7 basis points to 218, approaching the record 221.75 set
Jan. 10.  Greek Bonds  The yield difference, or spread, between 10-year German
bunds and Greek securities of a similar maturity was at 1,402
basis points yesterday, close to a record.  No other sovereign nation is graded as low as CCC by S&P, a
spokesman said by e-mail. Moody’s cut its rating on Greece to
Caa1 on June 1, leaving only  Ecuador  as a worse sovereign risk.  “The  ratings agencies  are now playing catch-up with the
market,” said  Gianluca Salford , a fixed-income strategist at JP
Morgan in London. “The market is pricing in a very high
probability that there will be a  credit event  around Greece. The
agencies are just catching up to the negativity that’s already
priced in by the market, not the other way around.”  The downgrade comes as the  European Central Bank  and
Germany battle over how to bail out Greece again and whether
officials should push creditors to share some of the costs. ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday that his advice to
European governments is to “avoid what would be a compulsory
concept” and “avoid whatever would trigger” a default.  ECB’s Hope  “The ECB wants governments to come to the aid of Greece
and at the moment that doesn’t seem to be the case,” said
 Orlando Green , a fixed income strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in  London . “We do think there’s a
chance Greece will see some sort of adjustment of its debt
profile. That’s what the politicians are looking to do,
effectively adjust their debt situation without wrecking havoc,
which could easily have a contagion effect.”  S&P said it has a negative outlook on Greece’s debt.  “Our negative outlook indicates that a downgrade to ‘SD’
could occur if Greece undertakes one or more debt restructurings
or maturity extensions on terms that constitute distressed debt
exchanges as defined by our criteria,” S&P said. SD is a
“selective default.” A restructuring would likely “result in
one or more defaults under our criteria,” it said.  Recovery Rating  S&P said that its recovery rating on Greece’s debt is ‘4,’
indicating it estimates bondholders would recover 30 percent to
50 percent of their investment.  A “financing gap has emerged in part because Greece’s
access to market financing in 2012 and possibly beyond, as
envisaged in the current official EU/IMF program, is unlikely to
materialize,” the report said.  Greece’s finance ministry said in a statement that S&P’s
decision “ignores” the “intense consultations” to resolve
the nation’s crisis taking place between officials at the
European Commission, European  Central Bank  and  International
Monetary Fund .  “The decision by Standard and Poor’s also neglects the
determined efforts of the Greek government to avoid at any costs
any possible violation of Greece’s contractual obligations, and
the strong desire of the Greek people to plan for their future
within the euro zone,” the statement said.  Granite Springs’s Truglia said that European officials
should prepare for the fallout from a Greek default.  “What Europe’s governments should do now is look at the
knock-on effects that will have for other markets and pressure
that will exert on banking system,” he said. “But the problem
is that governments always leave it too late.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in Frankfurt at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  