-- 
Groups for Apple, Microsoft Back Expanding Technology Trade

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-06-13T17:46:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/group-for-apple-microsoft-backs-expanding-technology-trade-deal.html
Industry groups representing U.S.
companies such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said they
support a new round of negotiations to expand a 1996 agreement
that established free trade in technology goods.  That deal, the  Information Technology Agreement , now allows
$4 trillion a year in duty-free trade from 73 nations in items
such as cordless telephones, video cameras, optical-fiber cables
and chemicals used to make semiconductors.  “While the information and communications technology
sector has exploded with new and improved products since the ITA
came into force, the product scope of the agreement has never
been expanded,” groups led by the Information Technology
Industry Council wrote in a document filed today with the U.S.
Trade Representative’s office. “ITA members have been trying to
chip away at the ITA by attempting to remove products from
coverage simply because they have been improved upon with
increased functionality.”  Proposals to expand the accord would eliminate tariffs on
$800 billion a year in trade, including $122 billion for the
U.S., the groups said in their letter. Among the products that
should be added are web cameras, global-positioning system
controllers, circuit breakers, digital scales, microwave
amplifiers, video monitors and DVD vending kiosks, they said.  President Barack Obama’s trade office requested comments
last month on whether and how the technology trade agreement
could be revamped. That inquiry represents doubts that a broader
deal in the  World Trade Organization  that has been under
discussion for more than a decade would come to fruition.  The information technology accord has the benefit of being
a grouping of only those nations that want to eliminate their
tariffs, and so doesn’t need all 153 WTO members to agree.  In addition to the industry letter, individual companies
such as  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) ,  Entegris Inc. (ENTG) , Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. and  Agilent Technologies Inc. (A)  asked for
specific expansions of the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  