-- 
TIAA-CREF Replaces Fidelity for California 529 College Plans

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-06-13T21:07:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/tiaa-cref-replaces-fidelity-for-california-529-college-plans.html
California  has picked TIAA-CREF to
manage its college-savings plan that has about $4 billion in
assets.  The  ScholarShare Investment Board , which oversees the
state’s 529 program, voted today to award New York-based TIAA-
CREF a five-year contract for its plan sold directly to
investors, Joe DeAnda, a spokesman for California Treasurer Bill Lockyer, said in a telephone interview.  Fees on average will be lower than those charged by the
current manager, Boston-based  Fidelity Investments , which didn’t
bid for the contract. TIAA-CREF will have eight people in
California dedicated to promoting the accounts, including two
bilingual speakers, and will spend $10 million a year on
marketing, or double that of Fidelity, DeAnda said.  “They bring with them tremendous knowledge and experience
in helping families save and plan for college,” Lockyer, who
also is chair of the ScholarShare board, said of TIAA-CREF in a
statement today.  Tax-Free Gains  The 529 plans, named after a section of the U.S. tax code,
are set up by states. Investment earnings generally are free of
state and federal taxes when used to pay for eligible education
expenses. California’s program has about $4.4 billion in assets
in more than 291,000 accounts, the statement said. Assets in
529s nationwide totaled $149 billion as of April, according to
the Chicago-based research firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   TIAA-CREF is a financial-services firm serving educational
and other nonprofit employees. It’s the largest U.S. manager of
 retirement plans  for teachers and academic researchers and also
currently administers college savings plans in nine states, said
spokesman Chad Peterson. The California contract provides for
five, one-year extensions after the initial term, said  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for the treasurer’s office.  College savings plans are “critical” because of the cost
of education today, Dresslar said. Tuition and fees for in-state
students at public four-year institutions averaged $7,605 for
the 2010-2011 school year, according to the  College Board , a New
York-based nonprofit. At private nonprofit four-year colleges
and universities, it’s $27,293.  Bid Process  California took bids through May 2 for management of its
two 529s, one sold directly to investors and the other offered
through financial advisers. The state didn’t receive any bids
for its adviser-sold plan and the board directed staff to begin
working with TIAA-CREF about assuming its management, according
to the statement from the treasurer’s office. The state’s
contracts with Fidelity are scheduled to expire in November,
DeAnda said.  Fidelity was the third-largest administrator of 529s as of
the first quarter after  American Funds , a unit of Los Angeles-
based Capital Group Cos., and Upromise Investments Inc. in
Newton,  Massachusetts , according to the Financial Research
Corporation in  Boston . TIAA-CREF ranked fifth with $7.8 billion
in plan assets, FRC data shows.  The “race to the bottom” on 529 fees in recent years may
explain why the state received only two bids, said Dresslar.
Some firms may have thought they couldn’t be competitive on
costs, he said. California also received a bid for its direct-
sold plan from Union Bank & Trust Co. in Lincoln,  Nebraska .  The average annual fee for plans sold directly to investors
was about 0.65 percent as of October, down from 0.72 percent in
February 2009, according to the  College Savings Plans Network .  Fidelity’s Assets  Fidelity managed more than $17 billion in 529 assets in
five states as of March and has managed California’s direct-sold
and adviser-sold plans since November 2006, Ginsburg said.  “Fidelity made a strategic business decision not to bid
for the ScholarShare and ScholarShare Advisor College Savings
Plans and we will focus efforts in California on our growing
IRA, brokerage, retirement, workplace, financial adviser and
institutional businesses,”  Vincent Loporchio , a Fidelity
spokesman said in an e-mail.  Fidelity reduced charges on its 529 plans nationwide in
December 2009. Fees range from 0.25 percent to 0.35 percent for
 index funds  and 0.59 percent to 1.06 percent of plan assets for
actively managed portfolios, data from Fidelity shows.  Fees for California’s direct-sold plan will be reduced
under TIAA-CREF’s management to an average of 0.23 percent for
index age-based portfolios and 0.58 percent for those actively
managed, according to a report by the ScholarShare board.
Investors also will have more investment choices including funds
from TIAA-CREF, T. Rowe Price Group Inc. and Pacific Investment
Management Co., while Fidelity only offered funds it manages.  “We have built our reputation in the 529 field with solid
investment options and a variety of choices to help people
manage their investments,” TIAA-CREF’s Peterson said.  New York ’s Plans  New York also put its plan out for bids and expects to
choose an administrator by August, said Vanessa Lockel, a
spokeswoman for the state comptroller’s office. The current
contract is with Vanguard Group Inc. as the investment manager
and Upromise Investments, which administers the accounts. New
York has the largest direct-sold plan in the U.S. with $9.9
billion in assets at the end of the first quarter of 2011.  About three-quarters of states offer a tax deduction or
credit for a portion of contributions residents make to the
accounts, according to Morningstar. California doesn’t, which
may be another reason it didn’t receive many bids, Dresslar
said.  “Given our fiscal difficulties here that is not going to
happen any time soon,” Dresslar said of the potential for
starting a tax break for contributions. “It’s just not in the
cards now until the budget gets straightened out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 