-- 
India’s Sensex Index Little Changed on Growth, Rate Concern

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-06-13T12:02:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/india-s-sensex-drops-on-growth-rates-concern-reliance-retreats.html
India’s benchmark stock index was
little changed amid concern the nation’s central bank may lift
interest rates this week to control accelerating inflation,
curbing growth.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  led the retreat.  Reliance dropped the most in a month after it agreed to buy
Bharti Enterprises Ltd.’s stake in insurance ventures with Axa
SA, and after  Press Trust of India  reported the country’s oil
regulator declined to recognize as commercial three of the
company’s gas finds.  Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL) , India’s biggest
aluminum maker, fell 2.4 percent.  Jaiprakash Associates Ltd. (JPA) , a
builder of dams and roads, climbed the most in two weeks.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index settled little
changed at 18,266.03 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The MSCI
Asia Pacific Index dropped for a fourth day after data showed
 China ’s lending slowed in May and Japan’s machinery orders fell
in April, adding to signs that the global recovery is faltering.  “There’s a whole lot of apprehension and nervousness as a
result of which there’s not much activity,” Mehraboon Jamshed Irani, head of private client group at Nirmal Bang Securities
Pvt. in Mumbai, said by phone. “Inflation,  interest rates  and a
slowdown are the worrying factors.”  About three-quarters of Indian business leaders surveyed
from 75 companies are unhappy with the government’s handling of
the economy and feel that corruption allegations will slow
growth, according to a survey by the Economic Times and the
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry  published
today . Only 12 percent of respondents said they were happy with
the government’s performance.  The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India Ltd. dropped 0.1 percent to 5,482.80.  Hindalco fell 2.4 percent to 180.35 rupees. Jaiprakash
Associates added 3.4 percent to 84.25 rupees, paring this year’s
decline to 20 percent.  Food Costs Climb  India ’s food inflation rate reached a eight-week high last
week, adding pressure on the central bank to increase rates on
June 16 for a 10th time since last March, even as industrial
output slows. Factory production in April grew 6.3 percent from
a year ago after an 8.8 percent jump in March, the government
said in a statement June 10.  The central bank may lift rates by a quarter-percentage
point, HSBC Holdings Plc, Nomura Holdings Inc. and Religare
Capital Markets Ltd. said.  “Even a 25 basis points hike in repo rate will not be
accepted well by the markets,” said Dharmesh Pancholi, senior
manager in equity advisory at Sharekhan Ltd. in Mumbai. “The
move will restrict liquidity for the equity markets.”  The Sensex,  Asia ’s worst performer this year, has fallen on
concern that higher borrowing costs will cool demand and cut
company earnings. Stocks on the index are valued at an average
14.8 times estimated profit, down from 21.5 times last March.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index trades at 10.9 times earnings.  ‘Overheating’  India’s economy  may be “overheating” and further rate
increases are warranted, New York University professor Nouriel Roubini told reporters in  Singapore  today.  Reliance, the nation’s most valuable company and owner of
the world’s largest oil-refining complex, dropped 2 percent to
925.6 rupees, its biggest slide since May 18. The company, with
the highest weighting on the Sensex, is seeking to expand in the
financial services business.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  climbed 1
percent to 377.6 rupees.  “The billion-dollar question is why Reliance should be
going into unrelated businesses and whether it is sensible use
of money,” A.S. Thiyaga Rajan, a senior managing director at
Aquarius Investment Advisors Pte. in Singapore, which manages
about $350 million in Indian assets, said by phone.  Reliance’s gas discoveries in the KG-D6 blocks in the  Bay
of Bengal , India’s largest gas field, were rejected because the
deposits have low reserves, Press Trust reported yesterday.
Reliance Spokesman Manoj Warrier declined to comment today.  ‘Kicking the Can’  A “perfect storm” of fiscal woe in the U.S., a slowdown
in China, European debt restructuring and stagnation in  Japan 
may converge on the global economy, Roubini said June 11.  “There are already elements of fragility,” Roubini said.
“Everybody’s kicking the can down the road of too much public
and private debt. The can is becoming heavier and heavier and
bigger on debt, and all these problems may come to a head by
2013 at the latest.”  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
will publish its Indian Economic Survey tomorrow. India’s trade
ministry will report data on wholesale prices tomorrow, and on
June 16, release food-inflation data for the week ended June 4.  Foreign investors bought a net 1.46 billion rupees ($32.7
million) of Indian stocks on June 9, taking investment in the
nation’s equities this year to 6.72 billion rupees, according to
data on the  website  of the market regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  