-- 
Industrial Enterprises Ex-Chief Mazzuto Enters Secret Fraud Guilty Plea

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-06-13T19:34:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/industrial-enterprises-former-chief-mazzuto-entered-secret-guilty-plea.html
John D. Mazzuto, the former chief
executive officer of Industrial Enterprises of America Inc.,
secretly pleaded guilty to his role in a $60 million stock fraud
at the seller of automotive chemicals.  Mazzuto admitted in  New York  state court to committing two
counts of grand larceny, a scheme to defraud and a violation of
general business law, according to the Jan. 14 plea agreement
made public last week. He agreed to cooperate and is testifying
against James W. Margulies, an Ohio attorney who served as
Industrial Enterprises’ counsel, chief financial officer and,
briefly, CEO. Margulies is now on trial.  Mazzuto, 62, a Yale University graduate and former managing
director at Chemical Bank, created IEAM by taking a private
company he controlled and merging it with a public company.
According to prosecutors, IEAM illegally issued millions of
shares of stock to friends, family, associates and Yale.  On the witness stand last week, Mazzuto said he, Margulies
and others engaged in fraudulent accounting and securities
practices, inflating the company’s stock value and deceiving
investors.  “Since I was the public face of the company, I got
investors to buy the stock,” Mazzuto testified. “Jim’s role
was to then create all the paperwork to make these transactions
look legitimate even though they weren’t.”  Margulies, 47, who also was indicted for grand larceny, a
scheme to defraud, conspiracy and other crimes, denies the
charges, his lawyer, Martin Adelman, said in a June 10 interview
after Mazzuto ended his testimony for the day.  ‘Grand Scamsters’  “This is one of the grand scamsters of our generation,”
Adelman said of Mazzuto.  Mazzuto, who prosecutors said illegally obtained
$15 million from Pittsburgh-based IEAM and used it to fund a
lavish lifestyle, including homes in Southampton, New York, and
 Palm Beach Gardens , Florida, testified that he couldn’t make
bail after he was arrested in May 2010. A judge had set bond at
$2 million. He spent seven months behind bars.  “The company is fully cooperating with the prosecution,”
Tom Curran, an attorney for IEAM, said today in a phone
interview. “The company is actively engaged in an effort to
gather all of its records to determine what action needs to be
taken to regain property that may have been transferred.”  During his testimony, Mazzuto said he had a “difficult
time dealing with jail,” found God and approached prosecutors
in December about a plea deal to reduce his potential sentence.  Twenty-Five Years  Mazzuto faced as long as 25 years for the most serious
charges against him. If he cooperated and fully complied with
his plea agreement, prosecutors agreed to recommend a sentence
of one year to three years in prison. Mazzuto testified June 9
that he hadn’t lived up to his obligations under the deal
because he was arrested in January and again in February for
driving under the influence of alcohol.  “I’m an alcoholic, and when I got out of jail I drank
myself senseless on certain nights and I got in the car and was
arrested,” he said. The cases, in  Florida , are pending.  Mazzuto testified he also was arrested in 2007 for driving
while impaired. He testified to three convictions, in 1997, 1998
and 2003, involving domestic violence. He has been married six
times, he said, and is in the midst of a divorce. He filed for
personal bankruptcy in 2002.  Prosecutors are no longer obliged to recommend the lenient
sentence. Grand larceny charges carry a maximum sentence of
8 1/3 years to 25 years in prison.  Joan Vollero, a spokeswoman for Manhattan District Attorney
Cyrus Vance Jr., declined to comment on the case.  Plea Agreement  As part of his plea agreement, Mazzuto forfeited
$1 million, which he said represented all his assets in January.  Mazzuto said he started investing in companies in the late
1990s. He graduated from Yale in 1970 and went to work for
Chemical Bank, now JPMorgan Chase & Co., where he became a
managing director of corporate finance before leaving in 1988,
he testified. He then worked for Merchant Bank, and went out on
his own in 1991, he said.  In 2002, Mazzuto acquired a controlling interest in EMC
Packaging Inc., a closely held Lakewood, New Jersey-based
company that packages industrial gases, he testified. In 2004,
he merged EMC into publicly listed Advanced Bio/Chem Inc., a
company with no operations.  Mazzuto said he ran the company and chose Margulies to
coordinate the production of the financial statements. After the
deal, Advanced Bio/Chem changed its name to  Industrial
Enterprises of America Inc. (IEAM)  It later acquired other companies.  Antifreeze Sales  Mazzuto was CEO of IEAM, a seller of antifreeze and other
automotive additives and chemicals, from 2004 to 2008. Under
questioning from Assistant District Attorney Garrett Lynch on
June 9, Mazzuto said that he committed crimes during that time
and engaged in fraudulent conduct with others.  “We sold stock in a form that was not allowed by the SEC
rules,” he said. “We then covered up the sale of that stock by
creating a set of phony documents. We used those documents then
to deal with the outside accounting firms to falsify reports
going out.”  Once in control of the public company, Mazzuto, assisted by
Margulies, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and registered 15 million shares of stock for
issuance, according to prosecutors. According to Mazzuto, IEAM
filed an S-8, a filing required when companies want to issue
stock to their employees.  Millions of Shares  Prosecutors said in a statement after the indictment that
Mazzuto and Margulies issued millions of shares, worth tens of
millions of dollars, to friends, family, business associates and
Yale, and to shell companies, entities and accounts they
controlled. Some were direct recipients, while some were
conduits.  “I had those individuals sell the stock and I had them
keep 10 percent of those sale proceeds as their commission. The
other 90 percent came into the company,” Mazzuto testified.  In effect, the sale of shares was used to generate cash for
the business to inflate its stock price, prosecutors said.  In 2006, Mazzuto and Margulies did a reverse 1-for-10 stock
split. The largest number of shares, 3.5 million, went into an
attorney trust account opened by Margulies in December 2006,
according to prosecutors. Within six months, Margulies
liquidated the shares for $17.7 million, moving more than
$13 million back to IEAM to inflate  cash flow  and boost the
stock price.  Interim Finance Chief  Mazzuto resigned as CEO and interim finance chief in
February 2008, according to a company statement, when Margulies
briefly took over both posts. Margulies resigned the following
month, according to company filings. On May 1, 2009, the company
sought  Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection .  The company was sued in federal court in Manhattan in
November 2007 by stockholders who said that the company,
Mazzuto, Margulies and others made false representations and
omissions about IEAM’s financial condition, according to a
company filing. The court approved a preliminary settlement for
$3.8 million in April 2009.  According to the Yale athletics website, in April 2009, the
school commemorated “one of its great supporters” by
officially dedicating John and Theresa Mazzuto Field. Yale also
renamed the head coach position the Mazzuto Family Head Coach of
Baseball. Mazzuto played shortstop for the school.  “I learned many lessons as a Yale baseball player,”
Mazzuto is quoted as saying. “Most importantly, I learned that
if you lose, there will be another game tomorrow.”  Yale Settlement  In January, Yale agreed to pay a $1 million settlement to
IEAM for the value of shares Mazzuto gave the university in
2007, according to the Yale Daily News. The original donation
was $1.7 million. The school said in a statement that it had no
knowledge of fraudulent activities and accepted the gift of
shares in good faith, according to the paper.  Baker & McKenzie  LLP, the world’s second-largest  law firm 
by number of lawyers, and former partner Martin Weisberg were
sued in April over claims they created a legal structure that
led to IEAM’s demise, according to a complaint filed in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware . The plaintiffs, suing
on behalf of the company, are seeking $600 million in damages.  “Defendants created a legal structure that enabled an
unlawful pump-and-dump scam, misleading or outright false Nasdaq
and SEC filings, and participation in a host of internal
corporate malfeasances designed to raid the company of its
working capital,” according to the complaint.  Weisberg, who left the firm in October 2007, declined to
comment. Jessica Wiltse, a spokeswoman for the Chicago-based law
firm, had no immediate comment.  Buy a Home  The plaintiffs accused Margulies of wiring $2.7 million of
IEAM shares processed from the trust account in September 2006
to an account in Weisberg’s name for the purchase of a home for
Mazzuto.  Mazzuto testified last week that in the summer of 2006 he
decided to buy a house in Southampton, New York.  “The house cost $3 million,” he said. “To raise the money
involved the selling of shares.”  Mazzuto testified that Weisberg provided advice to him and
that Baker & McKenzie worked on litigation issues, large
transactions and raising money. Baker McKenzie has until June 20
to respond to the complaint in the Delaware case, according to
the docket.  The case is People v. Mazzuto, 2503-2010, New York state
 Supreme Court  ( Manhattan ). The shareholder suit is Mallozzi v.
Industrial Enterprises of America Inc., 07-CV-10321, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
bankruptcy is In re Industrial Enterprises of America Inc., 09-
11508, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware. The Baker
lawsuit is Industrial Enterprises of America Inc. v. Baker &
McKenzie LLP, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York State Supreme Court at 
5387 or  kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 