-- 
Italians Deal a Blow to Berlusconi as Referendum Passage Weakens His Grip

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-06-13T16:19:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/italians-deal-a-blow-to-berlusconi-as-referendum-passage-weakens-his-grip.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
suffered his second electoral repudiation in two weeks as
Italians voted to overturn legislation he sponsored, weakening
his grip on power and increasing the chance of early elections.  Four referendum questions passed, none with less than 94
percent, to ban nuclear power, block cities from selling water
companies and prevent Berlusconi from evading his corruption
trials. The vote came 14 days after his bloc lost his hometown
in an opposition sweep of local races across the country.  “It’s a second setback for Berlusconi’s coalition,” said
Roberto D’Alimonte, professor of politics at Luiss University in
Rome. “Two defeats don’t necessarily amount to a knockdown but,
should the countdown start, Berlusconi will have to be able to
stand up again on his feet and react.”  Supporters of the referendum galvanized anti-Berlusconi
sentiment and attracted enough turnout to make it the first
referendum to be binding since 1995. About 57 percent of
eligible Italians  voted , exceeding the threshold of 50 percent
needed to make it stick.  “This has been a referendum on the divorce between the
government and the country,” Pier Luigi Bersani, head of the
main opposition  Democratic Party , said at a press conference in
Rome. He called on Berlusconi, 74, to resign immediately. His
term, his third as premier, is scheduled to run until 2013.  Berlusconi Trials  The high voter turnout “demonstrates a willingness of
citizens to participate in decisions about our future that can’t
be ignored,” Berlusconi said in a statement. “The government
and Parliament have the duty now to fully accept the outcome of
the four referendums.”  As a result of the vote, Berlusconi will no longer be able
to skip court dates in his corruption trials by claiming a
conflict with official duties. Berlusconi is being tried in
Milan for allegedly paying an underage nightclub dancer for sex.
He also faces bribery, fraud and tax-evasion charges in three
other trials related to his management of broadcaster  Mediaset
SpA (MS)  before he entered politics.  Berlusconi’s attempt to pass a law giving him partial
immunity from prosecution while in office was overturned by
 Italy ’s Constitutional Court in January. The referendum does
away with his remaining protection by forcing him to be in court
if requested by prosecutors.  Berlusconi, who calls himself history’s most persecuted
man, has accused Italian judges of trying to destroy him
politically. By his count, he’s been targeted in 105 probes and
trials, faced 2,500 court hearings and spent more than 300
million euros ($409 million) in consultant and legal fees.
Prosecutors have never been able to make a conviction stick
through Italy’s torturous appeals process, and he’s won two
national elections while facing criminal charges.  Berlusconi did not immediately comment on the referendum.  Northern League   The setback may strain further Berlusconi’s ties with his
key coalition ally, the Northern League, which has threatened to
pull out of the government if they feel that the premier is a
drain on their support. Confidence in Berlusconi fell to 31
percent in an IPR Marketing poll published in April, the lowest
since his last election in 2008.  Berlusconi’s candidate lost the mayoral race in his
hometown of Milan last month after putting himself on the list
of candidates to try to muster support for the incumbent Letizia Moratti. Berlusconi’s candidates also lost in Naples and Turin.  Today’s vote means municipalities will be barred from
selling off water services to private investors as part of a
plan to finance the upkeep of the nation’s water grid. Opponents
of the referendum said that the government will now have to come
up with 60 billion euros ($86 billion) to invest in water
services.  Share Reaction  Acea SpA (ACE) , a Rome-based utility that had planned to double
its investments in Italian water services to 900 million euros,
fell as much as 2.7 percent, to 7.325, the lowest in almost
seven months.  Enel Green Power SpA (EGPW) , an alternative-energy
company that may benefit from the ban on nuclear power, added as
much as 3.7 percent to 1.986.  The vote may weaken  public finances at a time when concern
over the euro-region’s second-largest debt has pushed up Italy’s
financing costs. The risk premium investors demand to hold the
country’s 10-year bonds over German equivalents reached a six-
month high of 188 basis points today.  Italy’s credit-rating outlook was lowered on May 21 to
negative from stable by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited the
nation’s slowing growth.  The government plans an additional 3
billion euros in deficit-cut measures in 2011 to meet its goal
of reducing its budget shortfall to 4 percent of gross domestic
product, the premier said on June 9.  The League asked the premier and his Finance Minister
Giulio Tremonti to speed up plans to overhaul the tax system and
are pushing for tax cuts. Tremonti has resisted, saying there
isn’t any money available to offset tax cuts.  “Pressure on Tremonti for tax cuts will grow now,” said
D’Alimonte. “Still, the government has to meet the goals on
deficit cuts agreed with the European Union and at the most the
Finance Minister will be able to concede some cosmetic changes
on the economic policies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  