-- 
Italy $3.5 Billion Spectrum Sale at Risk in ‘Wild West’ Spat

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-06-14T10:15:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/italy-s-3-5-billion-spectrum-sale-at-risk-as-broadcasters-dispute-payment.html
Italy , trying to cut its deficit,
may be thwarted in a bid to raise 2.4 billion euros ($3.5
billion) by auctioning frequencies, as broadcasters and phone
companies resist the “chaotic” sale.  Local television channels, who occupy most of the
frequencies to be sold, say they may refuse to free the spectrum
if the government doesn’t offer higher compensation. Mobile-
phone operators, the likely buyers, say the frequencies aren’t
worth the price if the broadcasters don’t allow immediate
access.  The Italian auction has been handled in “a quite chaotic
way,” Tommaso Valletti, a professor of economics at  London ’s
Imperial College, said in an interview. “There’s been a bit of
the ‘Wild West’ in the Italian frequency sector. It won’t be
easy to disentangle.”  The broadcasters’ resistance may hamper the country’s
deficit-cutting plans and expansion ambitions of mobile-phone
operators. Italy, whose credit-rating outlook was lowered on May
21 to negative from stable by  Standard & Poor’s , included the
expected auction proceeds in its 2011 budget. Operators such as
 Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  need bandwidth to meet
surging data demand as clients use smartphones to watch films
and surf the Web.  The broadcasters have been allocated 10 percent of the
proceeds as compensation for freeing spectrum, according to
government plans.  Demanding More Money  The compensation the government is offering local TV
networks “isn’t fair,” said  Filippo Rebecchini , chairman of
Italy’s  Radio Television Association . The government would need
to double its offer to potentially convince the more-than 100
broadcasters his group represents to vacate their frequencies,
he said.  Without an accord, the frequencies won’t be free in time
for the auction, Rebecchini said. “First they should free up
the spectrum, then sell it,” he said. “You can get a lot more
for a vacant house than for one with a tenant.”  A government official declined to comment on whether
authorities may change the design and procedure of the auction.  The mobile-broadband frequencies auction “can’t be
postponed,” communications regulator head Corrado Calabro said
in a speech in  Rome  today. A delay of the auction would lead to
a “dead end,” as the mobile network risks congestion due to
“exponential traffic growth,” he said.  More Competition  Calabro also urged the government to increase compensation
to local broadcasters to free the spectrum ahead of the sale.
The auction may raise more than the targeted 2.4 billion euros
“under certain conditions,” he said, without elaborating.  The dispute comes as operators are seeking access to the
valuable 800 megahertz band that can travel long distances with
fewer expensive base stations. The frequencies can also be used
for faster fourth-generation wireless services based on so-
called long-term evolution technology, or LTE.  Phone operators aren’t prepared to pay high prices for
frequencies if access isn’t guaranteed, Telecom Italia Chairman
Franco Bernabe said at a hearing in parliament in April.
Uncertainties “may make it difficult for the government to
raise the 2.4 billion euros,” he said.  Prices will have to come down if the access issue isn’t
resolved, Vodafone Italia Chief Executive Officer Paolo Bertoluzzo said at a separate hearing the same month. The value
of the frequencies “is lower if they aren’t free,” he said.  Auction Delays  Telecom Italia rose 0.8 percent to 94.95 cents as of 11:38
a.m. in Milan, giving it a market value of 17.8 billion euros.
The stock has dropped 1.8 percent this year.  Italy is not the only European country struggling to make
new frequencies available.  A spectrum auction in the U.K. has been delayed for more
than two years amid legal challenges, as Vodafone and Telefonica
SA’s O2 unit opposed restrictions on the amount of low-frequency
spectrum they could bid for. The frequencies set to go on sale
in the first quarter of 2012 may raise as much as 2.6 billion
pounds ($4.3 billion).  Spectrum sales are also scheduled in France, Spain and
 Switzerland  this year.  The Italian government “wants the money first, and that’s
the big issue between the telecom operators and the
government,” Enzo Savarese, commissioner of Italian
 communications regulator  Agcom, said in an interview, adding
that he expects the auction process to begin in September. “The
operator would like to have the frequencies at the same time or
at least pay in installments.”  The auction will take place by the end of September,
Industry Minister Paolo Romani said today in Rome.  ‘Diminished’ Prospects  Standard & Poor’s cited slowing economic growth and
“diminished” prospects for reducing government debt that
reached almost 120 percent of gross domestic product last year
when it lowered Italy’s credit outlook in May. Italy’s Treasury
said after the rating report that it will “intensify”
structural changes to the economy and push ahead with measures
following a budget deficit of 4.6 percent of GDP last year.  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said June 9 that he plans
an additional 3 billion euros in deficit-reduction measures this
year to meet a goal of reducing Italy’s shortfall to 4 percent
of gross domestic product.  Italy’s 0.1 percent growth in the first quarter lagged
behind the euro region as a whole and its two biggest economies.
The German economy expanded 1.5 percent and French GDP grew 1
percent, while the 17-member region’s economy expanded 0.8
percent.  “The government has already included these proceeds in the
2011 to 2013 budget law,” said Chiara Corsa, an economist at
UniCredit Bank in Milan. “Failing to raise these funds would
certainly force the government to find the money elsewhere.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  