-- 
Japan Shipyards Battle China, Yen With Fuel-Saving Hybrid Fins

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 
2011-06-14T03:30:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/japan-shipyards-turn-to-fuel-saving-hybrid-fins-to-fend-off-chinese-rivals.html
Japanese shipbuilders, leapfrogged
by South Korean and Chinese yards in an industry they once
dominated, are counting on fuel-saving technology to help them
overcome a stronger yen and high wages.  “There’s a sense of crisis in the medium-to-long term with
the currency,” said Hiroshi Minami, president of Oshima
Shipbuilding Co., based in Saikai, Nagasaki prefecture. “We
need to focus on more fuel-efficient ships to compete.”  Japan’s backlog for ship orders is less than half the size
of both China’s and South Korea’s as prices about 20 percent
higher than in China dent sales in a market worth $95 billion a
year. Oshima Shipbuilding,  Imabari Shipbuilding Co. , Japan’s
largest shipyard, and other local vessel makers are now backing
global fuel-use standards, similar to cars’ mileage ratings, to
highlight cost-savings for operators as oil prices rise.  “Fuel consumption is what matters,” said Klaus Nyborg,
chief executive officer of  Pacific Basin Shipping Ltd. (2343) , whose
dry-bulk fleet, excluding charters, is almost 90 percent made in
Japan. “It’s the difference between breaking even or making a
loss.”  A Japanese handysize dry-bulk ship typically uses about 24
tons of fuel a day, compared with 28 tons for Chinese-made ones,
said Nyborg, head of  Hong Kong ’s largest dry-bulk shipping line.
That translates into about $2,700 a day of cost savings on fuel.  A Japan-made handysize costs about $30 million, compared
with $25 million to $26 million for a Chinese one, according to
Rome-based shipowner  d’Amico Societa di Navigazione SpA .  Stronger Yen  The price of Japanese-made ships, which is usually quoted
in dollars, has climbed as the yen strengthened in three of the
past four years. It rose to a post-World War II record 76.25
against the greenback in March.  Japan lost its lead as the world’s largest shipbuilding
country by orders to South Korea in 2005 and dropped to No. 3
behind  China  the following year, figures from Japan’s
shipbuilding association show.  China took the top spot in 2009 as the government pumped
money into shipbuilders to help ensure supplies of raw materials
from overseas and to prop up yards during the global financial
crisis.  Chinese yards also benefited from lower wages. The average
annual wage in urban China was 36,539 yuan ($5,640) last year,
compared with 3.8 million yen ($47,300) in Japan, according to
data from the China Economic Information Network and Japan’s
Ministry of Health, Labor & Welfare.  Fuel-Efficiency Index  Japan’s shipbuilding industry is largely centered around
western cities including Hiroshima, Nagasaki and Imabari. As
such, it was largely unaffected by the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami that devastated areas in the east, said Takao Motoyama,
chairman of the Shipbuilders’ Association  of Japan.  To help highlight  fuel efficiency , Japanese shipyards are
backing the global standards set to be  discussed  next month by
the  International Maritime Organization . The United Nations
agency’s index will define a  minimum efficiency level  for
various types of ships that will be raised every five years to
encourage improvement, according to its website.  “It’s a good move to compare the fuel efficiency of our
ships with other builders,” said Katsushige Kambara, president
of  Tsuneishi Holdings Inc. , whose shipbuilding arm has yards in
Japan, China and the  Philippines . “We should put our strength
together and lead the world.”  Fuel Losses  The price of 380 Centistoke marine bunker fuel, used by
ships, has jumped 33 percent this year in  Singapore  to $675.50 a
metric ton yesterday, in line with rising oil prices. It hit a
two-and-a-half year high of $688.50 on April 11.  Nippon Yusen K.K.,  Asia ’s largest listed shipping line,
said higher fuel prices depressed current profit by 18 billion
yen in the year ended March 31 compared with a year earlier.
Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. said current profit was pushed down by
17 billion yen in the same period.  Dry-bulk shipping lines also face lower rates as expansion
in the global fleet has outpaced China’s demand for imports of
 iron ore  and other raw materials. The Baltic Dry Index, a
benchmark for commodity-shipping costs, has tumbled more than 50
percent in the past year.  A focus on fuel efficiency helped Imabari Shipbuilding more
than double annual sales from bulk carriers, tankers, and other
vessels in the four years ended March 2010 to 483 billion yen,
said President Yukito Higaki. He declined to give the closely
held company’s sales figure for the year ended March 31.  On-Time Reputation  Nationwide, shipbuilders’ posted sales of  2.6 trillion yen 
in the year ended March 31, 2010, the most since the Ship
Builders’ Association of  Japan  started compiling figures in 1975,
according to its website.  The yards have also benefited from a reputation for
reliability and on-schedule deliveries, said Frank G. Jensen,
chief executive officer of  Clipper Group , which operates more
than 200 vessels, according to its website. The company intends
to add more Japanese-made ships through orders and charters, he
said. Pacific Basin plans the same, Nyborg said.  “It’s like buying a Toyota -- you know what you’re
getting,” he said. “With China, it’s more like an unknown.”  Blowing Bubbles  To pare fuel usage, Imabari has developed a  hybrid fin  for
commodity vessels and tankers. The fin is attached behind the
ship’s propeller and it helps channel the flow of water to the
rudder, cutting fuel use by as much as 6 percent, said Hitoshi
Fujita, a director of ship design at the company. The Imabari-
based shipyard is experimenting with a similar unit for narrower
 container ships , he said. The shipbuilder also uses lightweight
steel and energy-efficient parts, said Mitsuhisa Hirose, a
spokesman.  The shipyard is also testing a system to inject bubbles
under the bow, which has helped lower energy use by 8 percent in
tests. It is also trying a new type of paint for ship hulls that
reduces friction and has cut fuel consumption by  4 percent  in
bulk-carrier tests, according to its website.  Tsuneishi ’s latest bulk carrier will reduce fuel use and
cut carbon-dioxide emissions by 12 percent by the use of fins
near the propeller and by boosting capacity, according to its
website. The Hiroshima-based company’s shipbuilding division
built 61 vessels last year and had sales of  243 billion yen . It
aims to construct 63 ships this year, including 49 bulk carriers
and eight tankers.  Order Backlog  Nationwide, Japanese shipyards had a backlog of 71.3
million deadweight tons of orders as of May 1, compared with
143.4 million for  South Korea  and 184.7 million for China,
according to shipbroker Clarkson Plc.  The fuel savings and the reliability of Japanese yards mean
that they will continue to retain customers, said Cesare d’Amico,
chief executive officer of d’Amico. About half of the company’s
90 vessels are made in Japan.  “We are extremely satisfied with the quality of these
ships, the design and reliability,” said d’Amico. “We are
still willing to give Japanese builders priority.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  