-- 
Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Drop on Oil Price, Greek Credit Rating

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-06-13T23:21:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/japanese-australian-stock-futures-drop-on-oil-price-greek-credit-rating.html
Japanese and Australian  stock
futures  declined after  oil prices  fell to a four-week low and
Standard & Poor’s cut Greece’s credit rating to the lowest debt
grade, boosting concern the global economic recovery may falter.  American depositary receipts of Honda Motor Co., Japan’s
second-biggest carmaker by sales, lost 0.5 percent from the
closing price in Tokyo. Those of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc., the country’s biggest publicly traded bank by revenue,
slid 0.9 percent. ADRs of  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , an Australian
oil producer, fell 1.8 percent.  “Concerns about the economic slowdown are emerging and
investors are increasingly avoiding risk assets,” said Fumiyuki Nakanishi, a strategist at Tokyo-based SMBC Friend Securities Co.
“Investors are unwinding their positions in the commodity
market and commodity-related stocks will likely fall.”  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
June closed at 9,420 in Chicago yesterday, compared with 9,450
in  Osaka , Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,440 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index fell 0.2 percent today.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent
today. In New York, the index gained 0.1 percent yesterday,
rebounding from six weeks of losses, as a pickup in takeovers
and the cheapest valuations in almost a year helped offset
concerns about a slowdown in the economic recovery.  Greece Rating  Transatlantic Holdings Inc. (TRH) , the reinsurer formerly owned
by American International Group Inc., agreed to merge with
Switzerland’s Allied World Assurance Company Holdings AG. VF
Corp., an apparel maker, also said it will buy  Timberland Co. (TBL) , a
footwear maker, for $1.8 billion.  U.S. stocks fell before rebounding and oil extended losses
as S&P cut Greece’s credit rating by three levels to CCC, the
lowest debt grade. The rating service yesterday said the nation
is “increasingly likely to restructure its debt.” A
restructuring would likely “result in one or more defaults
under our criteria,” S&P said. The downgrade follows Moody’s
Investors Service’s decision this month to grade Greece only one
level higher.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  remain at odds over
investors’ role in the second Greek rescue in 14 months. The
dispute turns on how politicians make good on a promise to push
creditors to pay some of the cost, a step that Trichet said on
June 9 could be an “enormous mistake.”  Yen Rises  The dollar fell against a majority of its most-traded
counterparts as U.S. stocks rose, spurring investor demand for
higher-yielding assets. The greenback slid against the euro and
the yen before a report tomorrow forecast to show U.S. retail
sales declined in May.  The yen touched 80.12 against the dollar today in  Tokyo 
from 80.49 at the close of  stock trading  yesterday, cutting the
value of overseas earnings at Japanese companies when
repatriated.  Crude oil for July delivery fell 2 percent to $97.30 a
barrel in New York yesterday, the lowest settlement since May 17.
The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six metals
including copper and aluminum dropped for a second day.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has fallen 4.5 percent this
year, compared with a gain of 1.1 percent by the S&P 500 and a
drop of 2.6 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 13.4 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 12.8 times for the  S&P 500  and 10.8 times
for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 