-- 
Johnson Controls May Seek to Build Solar-Power Plants in India

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-13T08:13:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/johnson-controls-may-seek-to-build-solar-power-plants-in-india.html
Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) , a U.S.
developer of energy-saving technology and hybrid  car batteries ,
may seek to enter  India ’s solar industry as a plant contractor.  “We think there’s a tremendous opportunity” to engineer,
build and operate plants for project developers, Pramoda Karkal,
managing director at Milwaukee, Wisconsin-based company’s Indian
unit, said in an interview in Mumbai.  India has awarded licenses to build at least 1,100
megawatts of solar capacity by next January, roughly equivalent
to one new nuclear power plant and about 30 times what exists
today. Companies are racing to line up financing and contractors
for projects to meet their deadlines.  Within 20 years, India’s solar sector could create a $50
billion market and rival  China ’s, Karkal estimated.  “There are thousands and thousands of remote villages in
India without a connection to the electricity grid,” he said.
“Rather than laying miles of copper lines, it’s cheaper to
build a solar plant. That’s why solar will take off quickly
here.”  Johnson Controls had global sales of $12.8 billion last
year installing equipment and controls for air-conditioning,
heating, refrigeration and other processes that allow buildings
to reduce energy consumption. The systems it has installed since
2000 have saved  $7.5 billion  in operating costs, the company
estimates.  India is trying to pass legislation that would restrict the
energy consumed by commercial buildings. If successful, that
could create a $500 million market within five years for
services in  Asia ’s third-largest energy consumer, Karkal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 