-- 
Kenyan Shilling Slips to Weakest in 17 Years on Food Imports Dollar Demand

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-06-13T10:53:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/kenyan-shilling-slips-to-weakest-in-17-years-on-food-imports-dollar-demand.html
Kenya ’s shilling depreciated to the
weakest in 17 years against the dollar on speculation corn and
wheat importers were buying the U.S. currency to fund purchases.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy weakened as
much as 1.9 percent, the biggest intraday decline since March
11, to 89.65 per dollar and traded 1.7 percent weaker at 89.50
by 12:57 p.m. in the capital, Nairobi. A close of this level
will be the lowest since March 18, 1994, according to Bloomberg
data. It closed at 88 on June 10.  Expansion is expected to slow to 5.3 percent this year,
from 5.6 percent in 2010, as drought cuts agricultural output,
Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said on June 8. Kenya eliminated
duty on wheat imports for one year, while the tariff on corn was
cut to 10 percent from 50 percent for six months to cushion
Kenyans from the rising costs of food, he said. Rainfall in the
three months through May was “highly depressed and poorly
distributed,” curbing agricultural production and hydropower
output, the Kenya Meteorological Department said on May 26.  “The weakening of the shilling is being driven by
speculation that businesses are preparing to switch to the use
of fuel generators due to the failure of rain affecting hydro
power production and the expectation of importation of corn and
wheat by millers to meet the current shortfall in the country,”
John Muli, a dealer at Nairobi-based African Banking Corp., said
in a phone interview today.  ‘Push to 90’  Kenya’s inflation rate, which jumped to a 25-month high in
May, is expected to rise further this year as dry weather curbs
agricultural production, central bank Governor Njuguna Ndung’u
said on June 6.  The central bank will stay out of both the foreign-currency
and repurchase-agreement markets, a bank official who could not
be named in line with the bank’s policy, said in a phone
interview today.  “Without central bank activity or verbal intervention we
believe that a retreat is not on the horizon and a push through
90 is imminent,” Matthew Pearson, head of African equity
products at Standard Bank Plc, said in an e-mailed note to
clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  