-- 
Kuwait Deputy Premier Quits Before Questioning in Parliament

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 
2011-06-13T11:51:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/kuwait-deputy-premier-quits-before-questioning-in-parliament-1-.html
Kuwait ’s Deputy Prime Minister
Sheikh Ahmed Al-Fahad Al-Sabah resigned before he was due to be
questioned in parliament over alleged financial and legal
violations.  The resignation of Sheikh Ahmed, who was also minister of
housing, was accepted by his uncle, the Emir Sheikh Sabah Al- Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, the state news agency  KUNA  reported
today. He will be temporarily replaced by Foreign Minister
Sheikh Mohammed Al-Sabah.  Sheikh Ahmed was to be questioned by lawmakers tomorrow for
allegedly violating laws related to Kuwait’s 30.8 billion dinar
($112 billion) development plan, and for misleading the public,
according to a copy of the questioning request. Sheikh Ahmed was
also to be asked about alleged financial violations and
negligence of public funds related to sports and housing.  The questioning, delayed for two weeks while a
parliamentary committee approved its legality, was the second
attempt by lawmakers to quiz Sheikh Ahmed. The questioning of
ministers over alleged violations has led to repeated government
resignations. Kuwait’s National Assembly has been dissolved five
times since the country introduced parliamentary democracy in
1962, most recently in March 2009.  Prime Minister Sheikh Nasser al-Mohammed al-Sabah is
scheduled to be questioned tomorrow in parliament over the
nation’s thawed diplomatic relations with  Iran , which lawmakers
allege risks undermining ties with other Gulf Arab states.  Parliament approved a four-year development plan in
February 2010 that includes investments to increase oil and gas
production, construction of a metro and rail network, airport
expansion, new power stations, cities, hospitals and roads and a
port on Boubyan Island.  Kuwait is the fifth-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries and pumped 2.425 million barrels
of oil a day in May, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net 
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  