-- 
Christchurch Aftershocks May Prolong Record-Low New Zealand Interest Rates

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-06-14T01:10:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/n-z-rocked-by-aftershocks-currency-tumbles.html
Earthquakes that struck Christchurch
yesterday may add to the case for  New Zealand ’s central bank
Governor Alan Bollard to delay interest-rate increases until
next year.  The magnitude 5.2 and magnitude 6 tremors in New Zealand’s
second-biggest city were the worst since a February temblor that
killed more than 180 people and closed the central business
district. New Zealand’s currency fell and traders reduced bets
on the cash rate rising from a record-low 2.5 percent this year,
according to swaps trading.  “Bollard has said very carefully that what they want to
see is evidence the rebuilding is taking off,” Roland Randall,
an economist at TD Securities Inc. in  Singapore , said in an
interview. “Maybe if you’ve got more liquefaction and so forth
it’s going to take longer for the ground to be ready to rebuild
and that’s going to delay the process.”  New Zealand faces a NZ$15 billion ($12 billion) damage bill
from the February earthquake and an earlier, magnitude 7 temblor
that hit Christchurch and surrounding districts in September.
Yesterday’s damage to roads, pipes and buildings may slow
reconstruction that Bollard has forecast will help the economy
grow 4.8 percent next year, the fastest pace in 10 years.  There is a 48 percent chance Bollard will increase rates by
a quarter of a percentage point to 2.75 percent in December, ANZ
National Bank Ltd. prices for interest-rates swaps showed at
12:45 p.m. in Wellington, down from a 74 percent chance on June
10. New Zealand’s dollar dropped as low as 81.15 U.S. cents from
82.20 cents immediately before the first quake struck at about 1
p.m. local time. The currency bought 81.47 cents at 12:45 p.m.
in Wellington.  Pipes Burst  In the eastern suburbs, ground was shaken, bursting pipes
and flooding streets with water and silt forced to the surface
by liquefaction, a phenomenon where soil loses its strength
after violent shaking. Since February, the government has been
assessing whether some of these areas should be abandoned
because they’re prone to such problems.  “There has been further subsidence in parts of the city,”
Prime Minister John Key told TV3. “There will be areas that
can’t be built on.”  Christchurch was hit by a magnitude 5.2 quake at 1 p.m.
local time that was followed by a 6.0 temblor at 2:20 p.m., the
 U.S. Geological Survey  said. The city’s airport was closed,
power was out for as many as 56,000 customers.  Aftershocks Continue  The two biggest quakes were located 10 kilometers (6 miles)
southeast of the city and at depths of 11 kilometers and 9
kilometers, respectively, the USGS said.  More than 30 quakes have been recorded since 2:20 p.m.
yesterday, ranging up to a magnitude 4.7 temblor that struck the
city at 2:48 a.m., according to New Zealand’s GNS Science. The
government agency says further aftershocks are possible, which
may delay the demolition process.  “Within the order of a month or so, or maybe two months,
we’ll get back to where we were before these two events happened
yesterday” in terms of aftershocks,  Matt Gerstenberger, a
seismologist at GNS in Wellington, said in an interview.  Inspection teams have been checking the inner city and
eastern suburbs where water pipes burst yesterday, reducing
pressure and flooding streets, the council said on its  website .  A number of bridges were closed and roads damaged, and
residents were asked to avoid unnecessary travel. In some of the
city’s hillside areas there are risks of rock falls, prompting
evacuations, the council said. Schools are closed today.  Injuries Reported  “We have broken roads again, and potholes, and some
buildings have collapsed,” Aaron Gilmore, a Christchurch-based
member of parliament, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television yesterday. “The irony is the productive part of the
city, to the west and the north, seems to be completely
untouched by this. But where the people live, in the eastern
suburbs, has suffered damage again.”  About 46 people were treated for minor injuries,  Civil
Defense  said in an e-mailed statement. Two people were rescued
after being trapped in an inner-city building, it said earlier.
Power has been restored to 95 percent of households,  Orion New
Zealand Ltd . said on its website.  Further Damage  Christchurch’s central business district has been cordoned
from the public, tenants and property owners since February,
forcing companies to relocate and retailers to close, as crews
demolish wrecked buildings. Several buildings in the so-called
red zone, including the Grand Chancellor Hotel, the city’s
tallest, have been in danger of toppling.  As many as 50 buildings have suffered further damage that
may require demolition, Warwick Issacs, manager of demolition at
the  Canterbury Earthquake Recovery Authority ’s, told  Radio New
Zealand .  “There will be some buildings in there we will have to
demolish or partially demolish in order to make the area safe to
traverse the roads again,” he said.  The damage is mainly to property already damaged after the
February temblor, Earthquake Recovery Minister  Gerry Brownlee 
told Radio New Zealand.  If the buildings were in such a state that they collapsed,
“they were probably going to come down anyway,” he said. “I
don’t think it is going to hold us up or put us back at all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  