-- 
Natural Gas Falls as Forecasts Show Milder Weather in Northeast

-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 
2011-06-13T14:02:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/natural-gas-falls-as-forecasts-show-milder-weather-in-northeast.html
Natural gas futures fell, erasing a
1.8 percent gain on June 10, as forecasts showed temperatures
will be below normal in the U.S. Northeast, reducing demand for
the power-plant fuel.  Gas declined as much as 2 percent as forecasters including
Commodity Weather Group LLC, said the weather will be cooler
than normal in the Northeast through June 17. Prices gained last
week as temperatures rose to records in cities including
 Washington .  “Instead of being much higher than normal, temperatures
are pretty much below normal this week,” said  James Williams ,
an economist at WTRG Economics, an energy research firm in
 London , Arkansas. “Gas has climbed near the top of the range.”  Natural gas for July delivery fell 8.5 cents, or 1.8
percent, to $4.672 per million British thermal units at 9:48
a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are down 2.3
percent from a year ago.  “Stronger cooling this week in the Midwest and East is a
significant break in an otherwise hot start to the summer
season,”  Matt Rogers , a forecaster with Commodity Weather in
Bethesda, Maryland, said in a note to clients.  A wave of heat will rise in the Midwest and move toward the
Atlantic by the end of the week, according to Rogers.  Power plants  use about 30 percent of the nation’s gas
supplies, according to the Energy Department.  Nuclear Power  U.S. nuclear-power production rose for the eighth day to a
three-month high, the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  reported.
Power generation increased 1,072 megawatts, or 1.2 percent, to
92,006 megawatts, the most since March 4.  Investors should sell October natural gas futures on the
Nymex because a 12 percent rally in prices over the past three
weeks is “unsustainable,” according to Goldman Sachs Group.  The fuel’s discount to coal has narrowed 35 percent
compared with March and a smaller amount of substitution of coal
with natural gas may take place at current prices, Goldman’s
London-based analysts, Samantha Dart and Johan Spetz, said in a
report e-mailed today.  October gas dropped 1.7 percent to $4.754.  Goldman also recommended purchasing fourth-quarter 2012
U.K. gas contracts, as a tightening of global LNG markets may
result in a “reconnection between spot prices and oil-indexed
prices in  Europe ,” the analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  