-- 
New York Fed’s AIG Mortgage Assets Might Fetch $15 Billion

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-06-13T15:58:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/new-york-fed-s-aig-assets-might-fetch-15-billion-barclays-says.html
The  Federal Reserve  Bank of New
York’s sales of the mortgage securities it assumed in the 2008
rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  would probably fetch
$15 billion “at most” at current prices, less than the insurer
offered, according to Barclays Capital Inc. analysts.  “As such, while it does not have to be the case, a
significant slowdown or even a temporary halt in sales till the
market recovers should not be ruled out,” New York-based
analysts at Barclays Capital led by  Ajay Rajadhyaksha  wrote in a
June 10 report.  The New York Fed is selling the bonds piecemeal after
rejecting a $15.7 billion bid for the securities from  New York- 
based AIG in March. Before AIG’s offer for the $31 billion of
debt was declined, investment banks including  Barclays Capital ,
Credit Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley tried to put together
groups of investors to offer rival bids for the entire pool,
people familiar with the matter said at the time.  The central bank’s auctions have combined with signs of a
weakening U.S. economy and a deepening European sovereign crisis
to help roil markets, including those for subprime-mortgage
securities and high-yield corporate bonds, as investment banks
seek to dump risk on stockpiled debt. Drops last week in
commercial-mortgage securities, which were stoked partly by the
Fed’s auctions, “evoked memories of the 2008 market meltdown,”
Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a June 10 report.  Slower Pace  The Fed, after earlier suggestions that the auctions were
damaging markets, has been holding the sales at a slower pace
and increasing their size.  The  New York  Fed’s decision to accept bids on only $1.9
billion of $3.81 billion of AIG-related bonds offered in a June
9 auction, its latest, shows that it “is not a distressed
seller,” which is among “reasons to believe we are at or
approaching the bottom in subprime prices,” the Barclays
analysts said.  Jack Gutt , a spokesman for the New York Fed, declined to
comment.  “There will be no fixed timeframe for the sales and at
each stage the Federal Reserve will only transact if the best
available bid represents good value for the public,” the New
York Fed, which is being advised by BlackRock Inc., said in a
March 30  statement  announcing the sales.  $10 Billion Sold  The New York Fed has sold $10 billion in face value of the
home-loan securities once owned by AIG and now held by a vehicle
called Maiden Lane II, leaving it with about $21 billion to be
auctioned, Barclays data show. Subprime-mortgage bonds tied to
the weakest home-loan borrowers represent about $12 billion of
the remaining holdings, with so-called Alt-A debt ranked a step
above in terms of expected defaults accounting for most of the
rest.  A Markit ABX index tied to subprime-mortgage bonds rated
AAA when issued in 2006 has dropped 8.6 over the past month to
47, while typical prices for the senior-most bonds backed by
Alt-A loans with a few years of fixed rates have declined 4
cents on the dollar to 62 cents, according to Barclays.  LibreMax Capital LLC, co-founded by former Deutsche Bank AG
trader Greg Lippmann, who gained fame for his bets against
subprime debt in 2007, overcame losses last month on its
holdings of the bonds with wagers against the debt through ABX
index credit-default swaps.  Hedge Fund Gains  The firm’s main hedge fund gained 1.15 percent in May,
bringing its returns to 5.9 percent for this year and 10.3
percent since starting in October, according to a letter to
investors obtained by Bloomberg News.Jonathan Gasthalter, a
spokesman for New York-based LibreMax, which manages almost $700
million, declined to comment.  Hedge funds  worldwide lost 1.15 percent in May, advancing
1.58 percent for the year, as those focused on fixed-income
products gained 0.31 percent, bringing 2011 returns to 3.5
percent, according to estimates by researcher HedgeFund.net.  LibreMax is 45.6 percent invested in subprime-mortgage
securities. Gains on hedges tied to subprime bonds and
speculative-grade corporate debt offset a 0.65 percent price
decline on the fund’s holdings, according to the letter.  The firm has a “large” position in junior-ranked subprime
bonds issued from 1997 to 1999, which were more stable in price
than newer securities, and it “increased our hedge positions in
ABX, high-yield and equities,” according to the letter.  ‘Worst Subprime Subsector’  ABX indexes and the bonds to which they are tied from 2005,
2006 and 2007 represent “the worst subprime subsector, in that
 home equity  has been completely eaten up by the fall in  home
prices ,” Karlis Ulmanis, a bond manager at Wilmington,
Delaware-based DuPont Capital Management, which oversees about
$27 billion, said in an e-mail. “The Maiden Lane II
liquidations have pushed the ‘ABX’-type subprime bonds
substantially wider.”  Securities tied to subprime and second mortgages have on
average lost 1.8 percent since the start of April, the month
that the New York Fed’s sales began, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  Estimated trading volume in widely marketed auctions of so-
called non-agency home-loan securities, which lack government
backing, totaled about $13.3 billion last month, with $4.4
billion coming from the Fed’s sales as “overall trading volumes
continue to suffer” from them, according to LibreMax’s letter.  Yield on junior-ranked, originally AAA rated commercial
mortgage bonds jumped to 8.12 percentage points more than U.S.
Treasuries last week, the highest in 10 months and up from 6.76
percentage points the previous week, Morgan Stanley data show.  The Fed’s sales “have weighed on securitized-product
credit in general as dealers have been forced to lighten up
exposure to make room for” the home-loan bonds that the central
bank is selling,  Chris Flanagan  and Jimmy Nguyen, New York-based
Bank of America analysts, wrote in their report.  “The Fed may be recognizing that the market and economy
are not strong enough to absorb either the slow drip approach to
selling or the larger scale approach,” they added. “In our
view, halting the ML2 sales altogether is the next logical
step.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  