-- 
New York, Delaware Said to Probe Trustee Banks for Mortgage Securities

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-06-13T18:54:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/new-york-delaware-said-to-probe-trustees-of-mortgage-backed-securities.html
New York  has broadened its probe of
the U.S. mortgage industry, requesting information from
additional financial institutions as part of an investigation
into the way mortgages were bundled and sold to investors, two
people familiar with the matter said.  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman ’s office
requested documents from  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  and  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. (BK) , which act as trustees for mortgage-bond trusts,
said one of the people. Between five and 10 trustees are being
asked to provide information, said the person, who declined to
be identified because the matter isn’t public.  The request from Schneiderman is part of a wider
investigation by his office into mortgage practices and the
packaging and sale of loans to investors. The attorney general’s
investigation has included banks such as  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , bond insurers like  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  and at
least one  law firm  that handles foreclosures on behalf of
lenders.  New York and Delaware agreed to share information gathered
from the trustees, said the person. The two states are
interested in probing the way mortgages were pooled and
securitized and have focused on the trustee banks because of
their role in the process, said a second person, who declined to
be identified because the matter isn’t public.  Document Transfers  One issue is whether loan documents were properly
transferred to the trusts, the person said. The trusts issued
securities to investors backed by the pools of  mortgage loans . A
second issue is the due diligence performed on the quality of
the loans going into the trusts and the representations made to
investors, the person said.  The New York Times reported the expansion of New York’s
probe earlier.  The investigation by Schneiderman and Delaware Attorney
General Beau Biden comes as attorneys general from all 50 states
and federal agencies investigate the way banks handle mortgage
loans and conduct foreclosures. The group is in settlement talks
with the five largest mortgage servicers, including Bank of
America and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  State and federal officials want
the banks to fund loan principal reductions for borrowers as
part of any deal.  James Freedland, a spokesman for Schneiderman, declined to
comment, as did Jason Miller, a spokesman for Biden.  John Gallagher , a spokesman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, and
Kevin Heine, a spokesman for Bank of New York, declined to
comment.  ‘To the Letter’  Mortgage securitization requires several properly executed
transfers, and if the required legal steps aren’t followed “to
the letter,” ownership of the mortgage loans may come into
question, according to a report last year by the Congressional
Oversight Panel. If the process didn’t comply with documents
governing the securitization, then the assets wouldn’t have been
transferred to the trust, according to the report.  “If documentation problems prove to be pervasive and, more
importantly, throw into doubt the ownership of not only
foreclosed properties but also pooled mortgages, the
consequences could be severe,” the report said. “Clear and
uncontested property rights are the foundation of the housing
market. If these rights fall into question, that foundation
could collapse.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at
   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at
   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  