-- 
‘Boiler Room’ Salesman Lied to Investors: U.S.

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-06-13T16:23:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/new-york-man-sold-gryphon-s-phony-stock-tips-u-s-prosecutor-tells-jury.html
Baldwin Anderson was a salesman for
a  New York  “boiler room” and misled investors into paying for
phony stock tips and investment advice, a federal prosecutor
told jurors at the start of his criminal trial in  Brooklyn .  Anderson, 57, helped Gryphon Holdings Inc. defraud
investors out of $20 million, prosecutors said. Gryphon told
victims its office was on  Wall Street  or even in the New York
Stock Exchange when it was in a strip mall in the New York
borough of  Staten Island , according to Baldwin’s indictment.  “The defendant worked in what is known as a boiler room,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney Roger Burlingame told jurors in his
opening statement today in federal court. “The evidence is
going to show that the defendant lied about what Gryphon was and
who worked there.”  Anderson is the only defendant out of 18 charged in the
case to go to trial. The rest pleaded guilty.  Kenneth Marsh, 44, who ran Gryphon, was the last to plead,
admitting his guilt in the scheme on April 14. He’s scheduled to
be sentenced July 12.  Anderson made about $843,000 in two years working at
Gryphon, according to a related civil lawsuit by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  “He never lied to anybody, he never intentionally misled
anybody and he never tried to defraud anybody,” Michael Padden,
Anderson’s lawyer, told jurors in his opening statement. “What
he thought he was selling was a legitimate product.”  Investment Recommendations  Gryphon charged clients as little as $99 and as much as
$250,000 for access to its investment recommendations, according
the SEC suit. Clients often lost money on trades suggested by
Gryphon, the SEC said.  The government’s criminal case against Anderson will
include testimony from 14 victims, according to court papers.
U.S. District Judge Jack Weinstein is presiding over the trial.  The Gryphon scheme lasted from 2005 to 2010, according to
the indictment. The company falsely claimed to have a trading
desk and a $1.4 billion hedge fund, the government said.  Burlingame, the prosecutor, told jurors that Gryphon’s
sales force, which Anderson was a part of, lied to potential
investors about Marsh’s name, educational background and career
history, and didn’t tell them that he’d been barred from the
securities industry.  “The defendant is charged with fraud -- lying to people to
convince them to send millions of dollars of their money,” he
said.  Pen Name  Padden said that when Anderson, a native of  Jamaica  who
lives on Staten Island, started with Gryphon in 2007, Marsh told
him he was allowed to use the “pen name” of Michael Warren
because they were selling investment newsletters.  Anderson, who previously sold mattresses, “is a decent,
honest, hardworking man” and “not some scam artist,” Padden
said.  Anderson is charged with  securities fraud , 27 counts of
 wire fraud  and conspiracy to commit those crimes. In one wire-
fraud count, he is charged with telling a victim he could recoup
his losses by buying a Gryphon service that cost $50,000.  “You gotta do those trades, that’s how you’re gonna pay
your balance and put money in your pocket,” Anderson said in
pitching a $25,000 advisory plan to a client who already owed
Gryphon for previous services, according to the SEC complaint.  Gryphon’s website falsely claimed an endorsement from
 George Soros , the billionaire hedge-fund manager, according to
the SEC suit.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Marsh, 10-cr-00480, and the
SEC case is SEC v. Gryphon Holdings Inc., 10-cv-01742, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York,
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  