-- 
Nickel Producers Face Output Cuts as Prices Slump, BofA Says

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-06-13T12:55:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/nickel-producers-face-output-cuts-as-prices-slump-bofa-says.html
Slumping nickel prices will force
some producers to cut output in the next two years to prevent an
oversupply, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “You would need 10 percent less supply next year for the
nickel market to look in a much better state, to be even
balanced,” London-based head of metals markets research  Michael Widmer  said. Prices will probably drop to the marginal cost of
production, forcing some smaller producers to close down or be
taken over through next year and into 2013, he said.  Nickel may fall to $20,000 a metric ton by Dec. 31, the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 17 analysts and traders
shows. Prices may decline below $15,000 next year if producers
fail to scale back output of the metal, used mostly in stainless
steel, Widmer said in a June 1 interview. He’s the most accurate
nickel forecaster tracked by Bloomberg over two years.  “The second half of this year is going to be weaker, by
and large, than the beginning of this year,” said Widmer, who
estimated the marginal cost of production at about $17,500 to
$20,000 a ton across the industry. “You’ve got a slowdown in
stainless-steel production and nickel demand growth, but you
have got more supply as well.”  Worst Performer  Nickel for three-month delivery declined $570, or 2.5
percent, to $22,280 a ton by 1:37 p.m. on the London Metal
Exchange. Prices are down 10 percent this year, the biggest drop
among the six main metals traded on the LME. Nickel will average
$26,600 this year and $20,300 next year, BofA predicts, compared
with about $25,980 so far in 2011.  Acerinox SA, the world’s largest stainless-steel producer,
said June 7 it would temporarily reduce the workforce at a
Spanish factory as demand slumped. ThyssenKrupp AG,  Germany ’s
largest steelmaker, plans to separate its stainless-steel
operations and other units to focus on engineering and cut debt.  Vale SA expects to increase nickel output by 56 percent
this year following two strikes at Canadian mines. The Rio de
Janeiro-based company is the world’s second-biggest producer of
the metal after OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, located in Moscow.  Ferronickel mines including Vale’s Onca Puma and Anglo
American Plc’s Barro Alto, both in  Brazil , are increasing
production. In addition, Chinese makers of nickel pig iron, a
cheaper alternative to the refined variety, have been
“proactive” in adding more metal to the market, Widmer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  