-- 
NYSE Euronext COO Leibowitz Talks Up Deal

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-06-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/nyse-euronext-deal-necessary-to-compete-globally-leibowitz-tells-congress.html
NYSE Euronext ’s planned merger with
 Deutsche Boerse AG  will help the businesses compete against
rivals targeting emerging markets and derivatives,  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
Chief Operating Officer  Larry Leibowitz  said.  NYSE Euronext, owner of the New York Stock Exchange and
NYSE Liffe derivatives venue, has a market capitalization
smaller than rivals  Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. and
Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME) , Leibowitz said at a hearing in
Washington yesterday before the House Judiciary Committee’s
competition subcommittee.  These companies now are “better positioned” than NYSE
Euronext to take advantage of industry consolidation in other
parts of the world, Leibowitz said. “We must adapt and change
in order to remain a leader among exchanges, a fierce competitor
that services the needs of its clients.”  While the House panel is examining Deutsche Boerse’s $9.34
billion merger agreement, the lawmakers have no power to approve
or reject it. The U.S.  Justice Department  and European
regulators are reviewing the deal to see if it hurts
competition. Last month,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  abandoned their unsolicited bid
for NYSE Euronext after the  Justice Department  threatened an
antitrust suit.  Wide Review  Leibowitz said that 47 government agencies, both inside and
outside the U.S., are reviewing the proposed deal. NYSE Euronext
voluntarily provided information to the  Committee on Foreign
Investment in the U.S. , or CFIUS, which studies the national
security implications of a foreign-owned company investing in a
U.S. business.  Lawmakers said the potential impact of the merger merited
the scrutiny.  “The committee must ask whether this combination will
threaten the robust competition in securities exchange markets
that has reduced trading costs over the past two decades,” said
Representative Robert Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican and the
panel’s chairman.  Representative John Conyers of  Michigan , the Judiciary
Committee’s senior Democrat, said he has misgivings about the
proposed merger.  Conyers said he is concerned about “the harm that it will
impose on consumers and the job market, and the stifling effect
it may have on innovation and transparency.”  Outside the U.S.  Leibowitz said the combined NYSE Euronext- Deutsche Boerse 
will eliminate some jobs, with most initially outside the U.S.  About $30 billion of exchange mergers have been announced
since October as operators seek to expand revenue sources after
profits fell in equity trading, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Leibowitz said he wants the deal to be approved because
competitors such as Hong Kong Exchanges have advantages the NYSE
doesn’t.  “Hong Kong is the best of all worlds,” he said. “They’re
in a highly protective regime. They have very rapid growth,”
giving the exchange a higher market capitalization.  Hong Kong Exchanges has the biggest market capitalization
at $23 billion, followed by Chicago-based CME Group Inc. at
$18.2 billion, Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse at $14.9 billion
and Sao Paulo-based  BM&Fbovespa SA (BVMF3)  at $14.4 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  NYSE Euronext has a market capitalization of $9.07 billion,
in fifth place worldwide.  Competition Continues  The union of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse won’t harm
competition in the U.S., where there are 13  stock exchanges  and
nine options venues, Leibowitz said.  Gary Katz , president and
chief executive officer of  International Securities Exchange ,
agreed that rivalry in the U.S. options market will continue.
ISE is owned by Eurex, a joint venue of Deutsche Boerse and SIX
Swiss Exchange Ltd.  “There are no signs that competition in U.S. options will
abate,” Katz said.  The deal between NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse may
encounter resistance from European regulators, who could take
issue with combining the biggest derivatives businesses in the
region. In addition to joining the Eurex and Liffe markets
within one company, the deal would place about 30 percent of
European  stock trading  under common ownership, based on data
compiled by  Bats Global Markets .  In the U.S., the company would own three equity options
exchanges, giving it 42 percent of the volume, based on April’s
figures compiled by Chicago-based  OCC , which clears equity
derivatives transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  