-- 
Obama Says He Would Resign If in Same Situation as Weiner

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-06-13T23:55:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/obama-says-he-would-resign-if-in-same-situation-as-weiner.html
President  Barack Obama  called U.S.
Representative Anthony Weiner’s behavior “highly
inappropriate” and said that if he were faced with the same
situation, he would resign.  “I can tell you that if that was me, I would resign,”
Obama said in an interview with NBC News. “When you get to the
point where, because of various personal distractions, you can’t
serve as effectively, then you should probably step back.”  The president’s comments today were his first on the
scandal involving Weiner, a New York Democrat, who is seeking
treatment following a pattern of behavior that included sending
suggestive messages and lewd photos of himself to women he had
met online. The NBC interview with Obama is scheduled for
broadcast tomorrow morning on the network’s “Today” program.  Weiner was granted a two-week leave of absence tonight when
no House member objected to his request after it was read aloud
in the chamber by a clerk.  Senior Democrats in the  House of Representatives , including
Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of  California , have called for
Weiner to step down. Pelosi has also called for a House Ethics
Committee investigation into Weiner’s conduct.  At a June 6 news conference, Weiner said he had made
“terrible mistakes” and acknowledged previously lying by
telling reporters he had been the victim of a hacker’s prank.  Leave Requested  Weiner, 46, is requesting a leave of absence from the House
“so that he can get evaluated and map out a course of treatment
to make himself well,” his publicist, Risa Heller, said in an
e-mailed statement June 11. Weiner is seeking “professional
treatment to focus on becoming a better husband and healthier
person,” Heller said.  Weiner, who is married to Huma Abedin, a top aide to
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , “takes the views of his
colleagues very seriously and has determined that he needs this
time to get healthy and make the best decision possible for
himself, his family and his constituents,” Heller said in the
statement.  Earlier today, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told
reporters traveling with Obama to an event in  North Carolina 
that Weiner’s actions are “a distraction,” without saying
whether he should resign.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
today urged Democrats to strip Weiner of his post on the House
Energy and Commerce Committee if he doesn’t heed calls to
resign.  Won’t Resign  Weiner admitted at his news conference that he had engaged
in “inappropriate conversations” with six women over the last
three years, including by e-mail, on Facebook and Twitter, and,
with at least one of the women, on the telephone. He also said
he wouldn’t resign his House seat, which he first won in 1998.  The New York Times reported June 11 that Weiner
acknowledged, through Heller, exchanging online messages with a
17-year-old Delaware girl. Weiner maintains that “his
communications with this person were neither explicit nor
indecent,” Heller said.  In the NBC interview Obama also said he is “absolutely
confident” that the White House and lawmakers in Congress will
reach a deal on cutting the nation’s long-term budget deficit
and raising the $14.3 trillion federal debt ceiling.  Vice President  Joe Biden  is leading the talks, with the
next session set for tomorrow at the Capitol.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  