-- 
Obama Pledges $250 Million to Upgrade Aging U.S. Electric Grid

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-06-13T17:04:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/obama-pledges-250-million-to-upgrade-aging-u-s-electric-grid.html
The Obama administration outlined a
plan to upgrade the U.S. electric grid, providing as much as
$250 million in loans for rural towns and urging steps that
would bar utilities from using market power to raise prices.  The strategy encourages state and federal regulators to
favor “smart-grid” technologies such as advanced meters that
can increase  energy efficiency . It advises protections for
consumers against anti-competitive actions as companies develop
services to take advantage of new technologies.  State and U.S. antitrust agencies should “address the
possibility that some firms with substantial market power are in
a position to impede the market entry of new products and energy
management applications,” according to the plan released today.  The administration is seeking to coordinate public and
private efforts in replacing aging infrastructure as federal and
state agencies adopt measures to encourage development of
renewable energy such as wind and solar power. President Barack Obama wants to put 1 million electric vehicles on the road by
2015 and double clean-energy use in the U.S. by 2035. Congress
is considering measures to protect the grid from cyber attacks.  The U.S. government invested $4.5 billion in grid upgrades
in the 2009 stimulus bill, matched by $5.5 billion in private
investment. The stimulus helped to install 5 million smart
meters, Energy Secretary Steven Chu said today at a White House
event announcing the grid plan.  “We do need a modernized electrical grid for this 21st
century economy,” Chu said.  Industry Investment  Investor-owned utilities are planning at least  $61 billion 
in high-voltage power-line projects through 2021, according to
the Edison Electric Institute, a Washington-based industry
group.  Smart-grid policies have been adopted in 25 states,
creating a patchwork of different approaches, according to the
White House plan. “While there is no one-size-fits-all set of
smart-grid solutions, there are important unifying policy
strategies that can advance U.S. leadership in the 21st century
clean-energy economy,” according to “A Policy Framework for
the 21st Century Grid” issued by the administration.  The White House plan has four goals: spurring innovation,
speeding investment to help cut utility bills, giving consumers
greater control over their energy use and taking steps to secure
the grid against cyber attacks. It also allocates $250 million
in loans through the Agriculture Department to promote grid
upgrades in rural communities.  10 States  Utilities in Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Montana,  North
Carolina , North Dakota, Tennessee, Virginia,  Washington  and West
Virginia are scheduled to receive the loans, according to the
Agriculture Department.  “It’s important that we not hurtle down this path without
a plan and clear priorities,” John P. Holdren, director of the
White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, said at
briefing in the Old Executive Office Building in Washington.  Regulators “should strive to reduce the generation costs
associated with providing power” during periods of extreme
temperatures, when electricity costs are highest, according to
the White House plan.  The  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  in March adopted a
rule to promote smart-grid technologies and energy efficiency.
The rules may aid companies such as  EnerNoc Inc. (ENOC)  of  Boston  and
 Comverge Inc. (COMV)  of Norcross, Georgia, which sell utilities and
consumers with software and hardware to improve energy
efficiency. Power providers including  PPL Corp. (PPL)  of Allentown,
 Pennsylvania , and  Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG)  of Baltimore
opposed the rule, saying the agency didn’t have jurisdiction to
set rates for energy efficiency.  Utility Mergers  Constellation and  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  of Chicago are seeking
merger approval from FERC, which must determine whether the
acquisition is the public interest.  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  of
 Charlotte , North Carolina, and Progress Energy Corp. of Raleigh
also need agency approval for their merger, which would create
the biggest U.S. utility.  The Obama administration said in its plan that it would
“make sure grid operators have access to actionable threat
information to the electric grid” in order to prevent cyber
attacks.  Joseph McClelland, director of FERC’s Office of Electric
Reliability, told a House committee last month that the agency
lacks comprehensive legal authority to quickly respond to cyber
attacks on the grid.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  