-- 
Crude Declines in New York, Advances in London to Boost Spread to Record

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-06-13T12:52:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/oil-declines-for-a-second-day-on-concern-over-economic-growth-share-slump.html
Oil declined for a second day in  New
York  before reports that may show slowing economic growth in the
U.S. and China, curbing fuel demand in the world’s two largest
fuel consumers.  In London, prices climbed as much as 1.2 percent, bringing
the spread between the European benchmark and New York futures
to a record. Sales at U.S. retailers probably fell in May for
the first time in 11 months and China’s industrial production
slowed, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg before
reports scheduled for tomorrow. Saudi Arabia last week signaled
its readiness to keep markets adequately supplied after the
collapse of OPEC talks.  “The rate of growth in global demand remains an important
unknown,” said  Christopher Bellew , senior broker at Bache
Commodities Ltd. in  London . “Sentiment now is that demand may
grow faster than OPEC’s appetite to increase output. I think the
reality will be that Saudi production continues to creep up.”  Crude for July delivery fell as much as $1.48 to $97.81 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was down 59 cents at $98.24 at 1:46 p.m. London time. The
contract on June 10 slid 2.6 percent to $99.29, the biggest drop
since May 11. Oil is up 31 percent in the past year.  Brent crude  for July settlement was at $120.04 a barrel, up
$1.06, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. North
Sea Brent reached a record premium of $21.58 a barrel to U.S.
futures today.  Economic Reports  Saudi Arabia  will increase production, though it’s too
early to say by how much, an industry official with knowledge of
the matter who declined to be identified said on June 10. Al-
Hayat, citing senior officials, reported that the kingdom will
boost output to 10 million barrels a day in July from the
current 8.8 million.  “Weak economic data will subdue the oil market,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity derivative sales manager at broker Newedge
in  Tokyo . “I am concerned if stock markets continue to go down
and that depends on the economic reports.”  U.S. advance retail sales are set to drop 0.5 percent,
following a 0.5 percent gain in April, according to the median
forecast of 62 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of
Commerce Department data tomorrow.  China ’s industrial production growth may have slowed to
13.1 percent in May from 13.4 percent in April, a separate
Bloomberg survey showed. Consumer price inflation, also
scheduled for tomorrow, may have accelerated to 5.5 percent from
5.3 percent.  Machinery Orders  Japan ’s machinery orders fell for the first time in four
months in April. Factory orders declined 3.3 percent in April
from March, when they rose 1 percent, the Cabinet Office said
today in Tokyo. Orders, an indicator of  capital spending  in
three to six months, were projected to increase 1.7 percent,
according to the median forecast of 30 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators decreased
their net-long position in crude contracts in the week ended
June 7, according to Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  Managed money bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 190,974
futures, the Washington-based regulator said in its weekly
Commitments of Traders report. Net long positions fell by 33,467
contracts, or 14.91 percent, from a week earlier.  Twenty-two of 41 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, or 54
percent, forecast oil will decline this week. Fourteen
respondents, or 34 percent, predicted prices will increase and
five estimated little change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  