-- 
Honeywell International to Acquire EMS Technologies for About $491 Million

-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 
2011-06-13T20:48:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/honeywell-international-to-acquire-ems-technologies-for-about-491-million.html
Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  said
its planned $491 million purchase of  EMS Technologies Inc. (ELMG) , to
be split between two divisions, should boost profit in 2012.  The takeover may add as much as 5 cents per share to 2012
profit, according to analysts Jeff Sprague of Vertical research
partners and Shannon O’Callaghan of Nomura Equity Research.
Honeywell didn’t provide a specific estimate.  Honeywell is buying EMS to boost offerings in mobile
computing technologies and satellite communications in its
automation division and aerospace segment. The price is about 13
times EMS’ 2010 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, Honeywell said in a statement. Excluding
corporate costs, the offer is about 9 times Ebitda, Honeywell
said.  Honeywell’s offer of $33 a share would be a 59 percent
premium to EMS’ closing price on April 18, the day before the
company said its board was evaluating proposals from potential
acquirers. EMS makes wearable mobile computers and satellite-
based cargo-tracking equipment, along with antennas and
broadband equipment that allows airplane passengers to connect
with the Internet.  Because EMS has a diverse array of businesses, “we thought
frankly that might make it harder for them to sell it, harder to
get a good multiple,” Richard Valera, a New York-based analyst
with Needham & Co., said in an interview. “Clearly that was not
the case. Honeywell paid what I think was a very healthy
multiple.”  Deal Valuation  EMS’s operations range across industries, which affects
comparison with other deals. The median Ebitda multiple paid in
the past five years for 16 acquisitions of wireless equipment
companies was 7.1, according to Bloomberg data. The median for
11 acquisitions of satellite communications businesses was 6.2,
data show.  The acquisition, on first blush, looks a little “pricey,”
Ajay Kejriwal, an analyst with FBR Capital Markets who rates
Honeywell’s shares “market perform,” said in an interview.  “If you account for the opportunity to cut corporate and
other costs, the multiple looks a lot more reasonable at nine
times,” he said.  The average premium paid for wireless companies in the past
five years, calculated using a 20-day trading average, was 20
percent, and the average for satellite companies was 68 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The takeover, expected to be completed in the third
quarter, will curb Honeywell’s 2011 profit by as much as 4 cents
a share, without affecting the full-year earnings forecast, the
 Morris Township , New Jersey-based company said.  Share Prices  Profit may be $3.98 a share this year and climb to $4.57 a
share in 2012, the averages of estimates from analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Honeywell hasn’t yet projected its 2012 earnings.  Sprague, based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , sees the deal
adding 5 cents a share and O’Callaghan, based in  New York ,
estimates an increase of 3 cents to 5 cents in 2012. Both have a
“buy” rating on the shares.  “EMS Technologies looks like a nice tuck-in with much low-
hanging fruit,” Brian K. Langenberg, an Oak Park, Illinois-
based analyst with Langenberg & Co., wrote today in a note. He
also has a “buy” rating on the shares.  The $491 million valuation accounts for EMS cash that
Honeywell would gain in the deal. EMS, based in Norcross,
 Georgia , has about 1,200 workers, according to its  website.   EMS climbed $8, or 32 percent, to $32.80 at 4 p.m. in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the largest percentage gain since
at least February 1986. Valera, the Needham analyst, rates the
shares “hold.”  Honeywell gained 18 cents to $55.71.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  