-- 
Hong Kong Home Sales Tumble After Government Raises Down Payments on Loans

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-06-13T08:03:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/hong-kong-home-sales-tumble-after-government-raises-down-payments-on-loans.html
Sales at 10 of  Hong Kong ’s biggest
private residential developments fell 58 percent at the weekend
from a week earlier after the government raised minimum down
payments and deposits for foreign buyers.  Seventeen transactions took place, according to Centaline
Property Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest privately held realtor,
after the Hong Kong Monetary Authority on June 10  said  buyers of
homes costing more than HK$6 million ($770,000) will have to
increase up-front payments. Foreign buyers must deposit an
additional 10 percent.  The measures to curb property prices that have surged about
70 percent since the beginning of 2009 may further dent buyer
sentiment that is already showing signs of weakening following a
recent drop in home deals and as banks accelerated mortgage
interest rate increases this year. It was the government’s
fourth attempt since October 2009 to curb inflating residential
values, rated by Savills Plc as the world’s most expensive.  The measures “show the government’s determination to hold
prices at their current level,” said Lee Wee Liat, a property
analyst at Samsung Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “It may signal
they will take more significant steps and that’s to limit the
number of units foreigners or mainlanders can buy in the city.”  The seven-member Hang Seng Property Index dropped 0.3
percent at the close of trading in Hong Kong, the lowest since
September, compared with the 0.4 percent gain in the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index. (HSI)   Property transactions fell for a fifth straight month in
May. Still,  home prices  gained 1.3 percent in the week ended
June 5 from the previous seven days, according to Centaline.  ‘Picking Up’  The curbs “came at the right time as there are signs
suggesting prices may take off, as sales activities of new homes
in recent weeks have been picking up again,” Lee said.  Properties costing HK$10 million or more will require a 50
percent down payment, HKMA Chief Executive  Norman Chan  said on
June 10.  “These new rules will have an immediate impact,” said
Jeffrey Ng, a senior executive director at Hong Kong Property
Services Agency Ltd., a unit of Midland Holdings Ltd., Hong
Kong’s biggest publicly traded realtor. “It will slow down the
pace of those who’re looking to buy properties.”  Borrowers whose income is primarily from outside Hong Kong
will need to make a higher down payment unless they can
demonstrate a “close connection” to the city such as evidence
that they work for a local employer or that an immediate family
member resides in Hong Kong, the HKMA said in a statement.  ‘Need Time’  “This will definitely affect our clients from both
overseas and mainland  China ,” said  Louis Chan , managing
director for residential properties at Centaline. Chan predicted
home transactions will slow by about 10 percent to 20 percent
over the next few weeks “as potential buyers need time to
adjust to the new rules,” he said.  Buyers from overseas and other Chinese cities accounted for
about a third of luxury home transactions in the first quarter
of this year, according to Centaline.  Prices may drop 10 percent to 20 percent in 2012 and a
further 10 percent in 2013 on rising rates, Andrew Lawrence, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at  Barclays Capital , said last week.  That may be good news for Joseph Hau, a 38-year-old
 investment adviser  who is looking to move to a bigger apartment
with his six-month pregnant wife. Hau lives in a 500-square-foot
apartment in the Wan Chai district.  ‘Wait a Little’  “We’ll probably wait a little and see whether prices will
come down,” said Hau on June 11 outside a strip of property
agencies in Tai Koo Shing, a middle class residential
development in the Island East district on  Hong Kong Island .
“We’ve been negotiating with the owner for a couple of weeks
and he’s been quite hard. Maybe after these new rules he’ll
change his mind.”  Hong Kong’s bank borrowing rates will rise on loan demand
and capital outflows when the U.S. increases borrowing costs,
HKMA’s Chan said on April 28.  The HKMA may require local banks to make more provisions
and set aside some profit as reserves, Apple Daily reported
today, citing unidentified people. The central bank plans to set
up a top-up provision ratio based on banks’ total lending, the
paper said. The HKMA “discusses different issues with banks
from time to time,” it said in an e-mail statement today.  Land Supply  Before the latest measures, the HKMA on Nov. 19 increased
stamp duties on homes sold within six months of purchase and
mandated higher down payments on those costing HK$8 million or
more.  The city also has pledged to boost land supply amid public
protests that housing prices are becoming unaffordable. In the
latest land auction by the government on June 9,  Cheung Kong 
(Holdings) Ltd., controlled by billionaire  Li Ka-shing , agreed
to pay HK$11.65 billion for a site on Borrett Road, about a 10-
minute drive from the Central business district. The price was
equivalent to HK$26,763 per square foot, said Centaline.  “Although the  property market  cooled down a bit in March
and April this year, there are now signs of renewed exuberance
following high transaction prices recorded in recent government
land sale auctions,” HKMA’s Chan said. “The property market
has been volatile” since November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  