-- 
Lottery Effects in U.S. Wealth Skew

-- B y   P a u l   K e d r o s k y
-- 
2011-06-13T19:42:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/lottery-effects-in-u-s-wealth-skew.html
     June 13 (Bloomberg.com) -- I have been giving many talks
lately about the macro condition of the economy, including a
recent one in  Canada  to some insurance executives. In the Q & A
afterward I was asked a question that comes up constantly when
I’m outside the U.S.: How is it, they asked, that the U.S. has
gone through an economic crisis, one brought on in large part by
financial oligarchs, and yet post-crisis these same oligarchs
control more of the wealth and income than ever, and no one
cares?  As this chart shows, the U.S. is among the most skewed in
the OECD in terms of income. (The Gini coefficient ranges from 0
to 1, with 0 denoting perfect income equality, and 1 representing
complete inequality.) Only Mexico, Turkey, Latvia and  Portugal  do
worse in the OECD by that measure.  And it hasn’t really gotten better over time, as the
following figure shows. After declining somewhat in the 1960s,
 income inequality  in the U.S. has actually become worse in recent
decades.  So, to return to the question, which is an interesting and
important one. Here are some other versions:  * Why aren’t there riots in the U.S.?
  * Why aren’t politicians under more pressure?
  * Why do people vote against their economic self-interest?
  * Why does no one care about the wealth and income disparity in  the U.S.?  The answers speak to how the U.S. is different in important
ways from many other places, but also to how the U.S. thinks
about itself. Because, I argued in my talk, there are really two
aspects to this, especially to how people (read: voters) respond
to the skew. There are structural issues — safety nets,
education, poverty and immigration — and there are identity
issues.  At the margin, identity trumps structure, with people living
less unhappily with income disparity because it reinforces their
sense of societal self. Income skew supports American
exceptionalism, the idea that the U.S. is different, because look
at what happens to successful people here, unlike elsewhere.
“That could be me,” is the story people tell themselves, a story
that causes them to vote for fewer structural supports, the sort
of thing that could get in the way of their achieving the
American Dream, or so the story goes.  In short, the skew in U.S. income is a feature, not a bug.
It is an essential myth in which people in this country believe,
one that reinforces exceptionalism, identity and entrepreneurial
opportunity. It creates the perception of an economic lottery,
one that you too could win, if only you worked hard enough and
long enough. Further, and more than a little worryingly, it has
positive feedback, in that the more skewed incomes become the
more the lottery effect is reinforced. Bad income news is good
news, and worse income news is even better news.  Click here  to see the story as it appeared on Bloomberg.com.
 