-- 
How to Avoid Sauvignon Blancs That Taste Like Your Lawn: Wine

-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 
2011-06-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/how-to-avoid-sauvignon-blancs-that-taste-like-your-lawn-wine.html
More often than not when ordering a
white wine I go for a Sancerre or Pouilly-Fume, made from the
sauvignon blanc grape in  France ’s Loire Valley. I find it as
versatile as an aperitif as I do with a wide variety of foods to
follow, and the price is usually right.  What I almost never do is order a sauvignon blanc from
America, where it is sometimes called fume blanc. All the
virtues I find in French sauvignon blancs -- their aromatic
bouquet, herbaceous, slightly grassy flavor, and lightness of
structure -- are often squandered in California and Pacific
Northwest wineries, which tend to overemphasize herbal notes,
making most taste like a newly mown lawn with plenty of
dandelions and a little fertilizer thrown in.  Many deliberately imitate the fruit-punch flavors of the
enormously successful Cloudy Bay and other sauvignon blancs from
 New Zealand . Wine Spectator’s MaryAnn Worobiec writing about
Cloudy Bay found “Tangerine, mango and citrus flavors are pure
and focused, smooth, round and wonderfully refreshing, with
peach, Key lime pie, mineral and floral elements that really
take off on the finish.” As I said, fruit punch.  America’s sauvignon blancs tend not to be quite that
aggressive, but their styles differ radically. Some are very
light, others hefty, with up to 14.5 percent alcohol. The big
grassy ones are a mouthful, but their charms fade very fast
after a few sips.  The varietal’s prodigious growth and vigor can lead to an
under ripeness that adds to those herby demerits. The grape had
a surge in popularity after the late Robert Mondavi re-named it
fume blanc in 1968, to avoid confusion with cabernet sauvignon,
giving it a sexy French nuance.  Steel and Oak  Many  California  wineries don’t allow much if any skin
contact with the grape juice; others do. Some age the wine only
in stainless steel; others use oak barrels. In some instances,
semillon or other grapes are added.  It’s difficult, then, to pin down the American sauvignon
blanc style. But with summer and outdoor grilling upon us, a
reasonable case can be made for the American varietal as a good
choice for big, smoky-flavored meats or fish.  With that in
mind, I collected a slew of western-state sauvignon blancs of
different styles and vintages and tasted them with and without
such foods.  Sineann  2007 ($30)  This is a small Yamhill County,  Oregon , producer, best
known for its pinot noirs. Unfortunately, although the bottle I
sampled had a very tight glass closure, the smell was slightly
chemical and the wine itself, obvious from its color, starting
to oxidize.  Carica Kick Ranch  2007 ($25)  Sonoma Valley’s Carica has only been making wine since 2005
but already has a considerable following. The owners insist
their sauvignon blancs follow “classic French style” with
“crisp acidity.” They add 25 percent sauvignon musque and age
10 percent of the first blend in new French oak.  It is indeed a very Sancerre-like sauvignon blanc, with a
lovely fresh bouquet, excellent body and clean acids. This was
clearly the best of my tasting, perfect with grilled fish.  Windsor Sonoma  2007 ($15)  With vineyards in the warm Russian River Valley, Windsor
Sonoma takes advantage of cool summer nights to keep acidity
levels high, achieving a judicious 13.9 percent alcohol. The
color is very, very pale, the aroma herbaceous, but the overall
taste flabby, without those promised acids evident. It’s a one-
dimensional wine.  Groth  2007 ($26)  Located in Napa’s Oakville appellation, Groth has been
highly regarded for its sauvignon blancs since the 1980s. The
grapes are grown in microclimates that Groth’s website says give
the wine “a lush, full melon/citrus character in the aroma and
in the flavor.” Leaving the juice on the skins gives it more
body, but you get a high alcohol level of 14.5 percent.  It’s big, it’s floral, it’s pleasantly grassy but not
overdone. This is a very fine example of the bold, California
style of ripe fruit and balance of acidity.  Turnbull  2008 ($23)  Napa-based Turnbull makes a wide range of wines, sourcing
grapes from four Oakville and Calistoga vineyards, and the juice
spends an unusually long time on the lees. Very pale in color,
with a modest apple-like nose, it begins brightly on the palate
but fades fast without any real finish. It would be fine with
grilled chicken or even hot dogs.  Spottswoode Estate Vineyard & Winery  2009 ($35-$40)  Napa’s Spottswoode specializes in two cabernets and its
sauvignon blanc, the latter fermented in small stainless steel
barrels, then French oak to add toast and spice.  This is another fine example in the Loire Valley style, a
very creamy wine but with tantalizing acid and freshness that
would make an excellent aperitif or a wine to go with summer
salads and tomatoes with goat’s cheese.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 