-- 
Palm Hills Leads Egypt Developer Gains After Toshka Resolved

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-06-13T14:11:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/palm-hills-leads-egypt-real-estate-gains-after-toshka-settlement.html
Palm Hills Developments SAE (PHDC)  led
gains among Egyptian property developers after the government
settled a dispute over land bought by Saudi Arabia’s Kingdom
Holding Co., signalling it may take a similar approach in other
contended cases.  The Cairo-based luxury real-estate developer surged to the
highest level in more than two months.  Six of October
Development & Investment (OCDI)  Co., also known as Sodic, climbed 3.7
percent.  Talaat Moustafa Group (TMGH)  Holding, Egypt’s biggest publicly
traded developer, rose to the highest level in two weeks. The
benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  advanced 0.7 percent by the 2:30 p.m.
close in Cairo.  The North African country’s government ended a disagreement
over a 100,000-feddan (104,000-acre) land plot in the Toshka
region in southern Egypt by signing a new contract last week.
Palm Hills, Sodic, Talaat Moustafa and  Egyptian Resorts Co. (EGTS) , a
Red Sea resorts developer, all face legal challenges to land
they bought from previous governments on the allegation they
violated the law because the sales were not conducted at public
auctions.  “The Toshka settlement bodes well for the real-estate
sector because it shows the willingness of the government to
work with investors to avoid legal battles over previous land
sales,” Omar Darwish, an equity sales trader at Cairo-based
Commercial International Brokerage Co., said by phone.  Egypt’s government is studying legislation to legalize land
sales that violated the law under previous governments to end
land disputes in court, Al Masry Al Youm reported on May 26,
citing Omar El Shawadfy, head of the National Center for State
Land Utilization.  Shares of  Palm Hills  rose 5.6 percent to 2.45 Egyptian
pounds. Sodic gained to 68.23 pounds, the biggest increase in
more than two weeks. Talaat Moustafa advanced 1.7 percent to
4.76 pounds. Egyptian Resorts jumped 4.9 percent to 1.08 pounds,
the highest level in two months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  