-- 
U.S. Military Aid to Overseas Allies May Face Cuts, Mullen Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-06-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/pentagon-aid-to-foreign-militaries-may-face-cuts-mullen-says.html
U.S. assistance to Latin American
and African militaries may face cuts as the Pentagon tries to
pare $400 billion from the  defense budget  over the next 12 years,
said Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.  Mullen, President  Barack Obama ’s top military adviser, said
such programs may be viewed as a lower priority as the Defense
Department seeks to protect personnel, spending on current
conflicts and the most critical weapons programs.  “Those are preventative investments,” Mullen said, of the
military aid. The programs help avoid conflicts and allow the
U.S. to better respond in a crisis, he said in a Bloomberg View
editorial board interview in  New York  yesterday. “You’ll see
that ratchet back.”  Such cuts may hurt the Pentagon strategy to help other
militaries gain the skills and capabilities they need to bear
their own security burden and contribute more to regional
defense. Obama has called for $400 billion of cuts in defense
spending to help ease the federal deficit even as he seeks more
alliances to strengthen security.  The department’s Quadrennial Defense Review last year
called for more action to bolster the military capacity of
allies and partners, and Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  has
sought more equipment, training and support for such projects.  Africa Command  Mullen, whose term at the Joint Chiefs of Staff ends in
September, didn’t specify which countries could be affected. The
U.S. military’s newest combatant command, Africom, focuses on
joint security exercises and programs to buttress African
nations’ capability to fight security scourges such as narcotics
trafficking.  While U.S. leadership will continue to be “critical,”
other countries will need to help in efforts such as the
coalition of militaries that has fought pirates in the  Gulf of
Aden , Mullen said.  “We’re so interconnected and interdependent,” he said.
“It will be more and more the case that there isn’t a single
country that can do it alone.”  He had earlier cited  Egypt  as an example of military ties
built over 30 years of U.S. assistance that reached $1.3 billion
annually and proved crucial during that country’s uprising that
led to President  Hosni Mubarak ’s resignation in February.  Egyptian Military  Mullen, 64, was in frequent contact with his counterpart,
armed forces Chief of Staff Lieutenant General Sami Hafez Enan,
in the Egyptian military as it decided how to handle the
protests.  The admiral, who just returned from an overseas trip that
included a meeting with Enan in Cairo, said he considered U.S.
funding for Egypt’s military a “relatively inexpensive
investment.”  While Egypt is concerned about the instability on its
border with  Libya  and further afield in  Syria , the military
leaders preparing for elections that would restore a civilian
government are most focused on their internal situation, Mullen
said. They’re particularly concerned with obtaining sufficient
economic and financial assistance to get them through the
current crisis, he said.  Gates last week warned European allies in the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization that the alliance risks
“collective military irrelevance” unless they step up their
own defense spending so they can contribute more.  Health Benefits  Mullen reconfirmed views he has expressed in congressional
testimony and other public appearances that the Pentagon and
lawmakers must grapple with the skyrocketing costs of health
benefits and other compensation to avoid harmful cuts to the
size of the armed forces.  In addition to retaining the best young members of the
military and taking care of veterans, the priorities should
include ensuring the proper financing of current conflicts and
preserving the most important weapons programs, he said.  “We’re going to very clearly kill programs that are not
performing,” Mullen said. Even some of those that survive
probably will have to be slowed, he said.  He said he’s pushing for decisions based on “a strategic
view.”  The potential for cyber attacks is quickly becoming a
priority concern for the Pentagon, Mullen said.  Existential Threats  “I really believe cyber is one of two existential threats
that are out there, the other being nuclear weapons,” he said.
He added that the nuclear threat is controlled to a certain
extent by the New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty signed with
Russia in 2010 that took effect this year and resumed
inspections by each side of the other’s facilities.  Cyber attacks are a particular threat because they could
affect economic infrastructure such as financial and
transportation systems.  “It needs to be front and center,” he said, “in all of
our war-fighting thinking.”  In recent days, the International Monetary Fund’s computer
system was targeted by hackers, believed to be connected to a
foreign government, who retrieved e-mails and other documents,
according to a person familiar with the attack.  The infiltration follows reported hacks at Google Inc.,
 Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and Citigroup Inc. in the past
three months. The FBI has said it would increase efforts to
combat cyber-attacks by criminal gangs, industrial spies and
foreign governments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  