-- 
Pertamina Expects Indonesia Fuel Subsidies to Be Lifted by 2014

-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 
2011-06-13T03:18:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/pertamina-expects-indonesia-fuel-subsidies-to-be-lifted-by-2014.html
PT Pertamina expects the Indonesian
government to phase out fuel subsidies by 2014 to help ease the
burden on the state budget, said  Karen Agustiawan , president
director at the country’s state oil and gas company.  “We have hopes, actually, speaking with the director
general of oil and gas, that by 2014 we will be phasing out
subsidies, meaning subsidies will be given directly to the
needs,” Agustiawan said in a Bloomberg Television interview at
the  World Economic Forum  on East Asia in Jakarta yesterday.  Indonesia , Southeast Asia’s biggest economy, delayed a plan
to limit fuel subsidies due to the threat of faster inflation
amid gains in  oil prices , Teuku Rifky Harsya, chairman of the
parliamentary commission for energy affairs, said March 21.  The government had planned to ban owners of private cars
from buying subsidized fuel on Java island from April to reduce
subsidy costs,  Evita Legowo , director general of oil and gas at
the Energy Ministry, said at the time.  The government is studying options for fuel subsidy cut
plan and its effect to inflation, Agustiawan said.  “Right now what we are trying to do is to phase out public
transportation first into using gas and in the household sector
from kerosene to LPG and that has reduced significantly the
amount of government subsidy to the people,” Agustiawan said.  Indonesia’s 2011 budget deficit will probably exceed the
government’s assumption of 1.8 percent of gross domestic product
due to higher-than-expected crude oil prices, the Ministry of
Finance said in its 2012 budget report in May.  The ministry had based its 2011 estimate on a crude-price
assumption of about $80 a barrel, and oil will probably trade at
an average $90 to $100 a barrel this year, according to the
report. It didn’t say by how much the deficit would likely widen.  Oil has risen about 12 percent in the past six months on
concern of supply disruption due to political tension in the
 Middle East  and North Africa. July-delivery crude fell 2.6
percent to $99.3 a barrel in  New York  on June 10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net . 