-- 
Philippine Five-Year Bonds Drop on Signal for Policy Tightening

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-06-13T03:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/philippine-five-year-bonds-drop-on-signal-for-policy-tightening.html
Philippine five-year bonds fell,
driving up yields by the most in more than a month, after the
central bank signaled it may raise borrowing costs this week.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas has a “number of instruments”
including the policy rate and the reserve requirement for banks
to deal with inflation, Governor Amando Tetangco said yesterday.
Eight of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict the
overnight benchmark rate will be increased 0.25 percentage point
to 4.75 percent on June 16, while the rest forecast no change.  “The statements send a clear message that borrowing costs
are still on their way up,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market
strategist at BDO Unibank Inc., the  Philippines ’ largest lender.
“They will use other tools once they’re finished with the rate
hikes, or if inflation rallies above 5 percent.”  The yield on the 7 percent bond due January 2016 rose 15
basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 5.30 percent as of
10:18 a.m. in Manila, according to Tradition Financial Services.
That’s the biggest increase since May 4. The peso fell 0.2
percent to 43.375 per dollar, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  “The strategy is to make sure we’re always ahead of the
curve in dealing with inflation,” Finance Secretary Cesar
Purisima said in Manila yesterday, adding that the central bank
will consider all policy tools. Purisima is a member of the
Bangko Sentral’s Monetary Board.  Consumer prices rose 4.5 percent in May from a year earlier,
the fastest pace in 13 months, official data showed on June 7.  The central bank, which raised the benchmark rate by a
quarter of a percentage point at meetings in March and May to
4.5 percent, will assess the impact of the two interest-rate
increases, Tetangco said on June 10.  The Bureau of the Treasury will auction 9 billion pesos
($207 million) of bills due in three months to a year at 1 p.m.
today. The nation’s debt fell to 51.2 percent of gross domestic
product in the first quarter, the Department of Finance said in
a statement on June 11.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  