-- 
Pound Rises Versus Euro for Fourth Day as Greek Concern Boosts U.K. Appeal

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-06-13T15:58:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/pound-advances-versus-euro-for-4th-day-as-greek-concern-boosts-u-k-appeal.html
The pound strengthened for a fourth
straight day against the euro, the longest run of gains in
almost two months, amid dissension among European leaders over
finding a solution to the region’s debt crisis.  Sterling also advanced against the dollar, climbing from
its lowest level in more than two weeks. European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  are at odds over investors’ roles in a second
Greek rescue, endangering the next International Monetary Fund
payment to the debt-stricken nation.  “We may just see a little bit of strength coming back in
for sterling,” said  Steven Barrow , London-based head of
research for Group-of-10 currencies at Standard Bank Plc.
“There are vulnerabilities on both sides. The euro’s
vulnerability is the debt crisis and the political problems that
we have between the euro zone and  Germany , and I think that’s
going to give it a weak bias.”  Britain’s currency appreciated 0.3 percent to 88.14 pence
per euro as of 4:56 p.m. in London. Sterling climbed 0.5 percent
versus the dollar to $1.6309 after falling to $1.6211, the
lowest level since May 25. The FTSE 100 Index of stocks rose 0.1
percent.  Portugal ’s 10-year bond yield rose to a euro-era record and
equivalent Spanish yields jumped for the sixth-straight day.
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said a bailout for
 Greece  must include “voluntary” investor participation. He is
trying to bridge the gap between Schaeuble, who has called for
Greek bondholders to extend the maturities of their debt by
seven years, and Trichet, who says imposing losses on creditors
would be akin to a default.  ECB, BOE Rates  Swaps traders pared bets for ECB rate increases for a
fourth day amid the turmoil. The bank will raise its target rate
by 64.1 basis points over the next 12 months, a Credit Suisse AG
index showed. Earlier this month, the index showed as much as
81.1 basis points were being priced in. The bank has already
raised rates 25 basis points this year and signaled a further
increase is likely at next month’s meeting.  Investors last week pushed back bets on the month that U.K.
central bankers will next increase rates to May of next year,
forward contracts on the sterling overnight interbank average
show. As recently as February, traders were betting on an
increase as soon as May of this year, data from Tullett Prebon
Plc showed.  Inflation ‘Anchored’  “It is still hard to get too excited about the possibility
of earlier U.K. rate hikes, but it is even harder to see the
market pushing rate expectations out much further,” Adrian Schmidt, a currency strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets
in  London , wrote in an e-mailed report today. “Factors like the
strong oil price, improving U.K. trade, the lack of any U.S.
deficit action and, in our view, the probability of a stronger
global economic performance in the second half all suggest the
risks are biased higher for pound-dollar.”  The 10-year gilt yield increased three basis points to 3.26
percent after slipping to 3.21 percent, the lowest since
November. Two-year notes yielded 0.84 percent.  Ten-year gilts climbed last week for the ninth consecutive
week, the longest sequences of gains since Bloomberg began
collecting the data in 1989, amid signs that growth is
weakening, reducing the case for higher  interest rates . Data
showed factory output fell more than economists estimated in
April and shop-price inflation slowed in May.  The  Bank of England  said U.K. inflation is “reasonably
well anchored” in its Quarterly Bulletin published today.
Policy maker  Martin Weale  is due to speak at 7 p.m. in London.  Britain’s growth will be “unspectacular” this year and
central bankers shouldn’t rule out more bond purchases for
stimulus, accountants BDO Stoy Hayward said in a report.  Gilts have returned 2.8 percent this year, compared with a
0.4 percent increase for German bonds and a 3.2 percent advance
for  U.S. Treasuries , according to indexes by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  