-- 
Praise the Arab Spring, Prepare for the Arab Fall: Noah Feldman

-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 
2011-06-13T04:01:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/praise-the-arab-spring-prepare-for-the-arab-fall-noah-feldman.html
For all the excitement about the
twilight of the dictators, only two --  Hosni Mubarak  of Egypt
and Zine El Abidine Ben Ali of Tunisia -- have been officially
knocked over since the start of the so-called Arab Spring six
months ago. It isn’t even clear whether that count will reach
three.  Yemeni strongman Ali Abdullah Saleh is in neighboring  Saudi
Arabia  for medical treatment after a bomb in his own
presidential palace burned him badly and sent shards of a carved
wooden prayer-niche into his body.  The Saudis have reportedly been angry at Saleh for months,
since he has rebuffed their efforts to negotiate his gentle
ouster. So it is probable his hosts won’t let him return home,
even if he recovers enough to try and rule. But even this result
isn’t absolutely certain.  The Saudis dislike disorder even more than they hate being
disobeyed. If it looks like no one but Saleh can manage to keep
Yemen from becoming a failed state and an even better incubator
for Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, then the Saudis may take
steps to restore him to power.  And therein lies a tale: No one knows whether what follows
the Arab dictatorships will manage to govern the unruly
countries that are in the midst of unrest or civil war. Tunisia
and  Egypt  are relatively homogeneous (though the Coptic minority
in Egypt has been badly buffeted in the uncertain transitional
period).  But Yemen, Syria, Libya and others are very much like Iraq:
powder kegs of potential violence and divided by sect,
ethnicity, tribe or some combination. The tyrants, through their
secret police, kept the peace. The trouble with the Arab Spring
is the Arab Fall.  Power of the Generals  If all the change afoot in the Arab world were the product
of solid middle-class protesters demanding democracy and then
organizing it -- a vision sometimes hinted at in the U.S. news
media, not to mention al-Jazeera -- then there would be no
problem at all. The truth, though, is that not only are the
protesters an unknown quantity, they didn’t even bring down the
regimes in  Tunisia  and Egypt on their own.  In both cases, it was the army that removed the dictator
from office, after judging that the military’s interests would
be better served by siding with “the people” than by shooting
them. Events in Egypt have borne out the view that the army was
prepared to negotiate shared power with whoever will be elected
-- which will probably be a government dominated, though not
controlled, by Islamists affiliated with the Muslim Brotherhood.
In Tunisia, too, the caretaker army will make sure its power is
preserved when a government -- again probably with major
Islamist representation -- is eventually chosen.  Tribalism  Elsewhere, public protests have unleashed forces that are
very different from  Poland ’s Solidarity or Eastern Europe’s
post-1989 models of peaceful middle-class revolution. In Yemen,
the violence has been between Saleh’s government and its clan
rivals. At least one southern city is in outright rebellion.
From the time the British left in 1967 to 1990, the country was
split in two -- a situation that could conceivably recur.  One consolation is that, outside the major cities, the
Yemeni government’s writ has never run very far. So in the rural
and desert areas, a failed state wouldn’t look very different
from what presently exists.  In  Libya , public protests that began in January emboldened
eastern tribes that had long been neglected by Muammar Qaddafi’s
government, which is dominated by their western rivals. They
took up arms, though very weakly. When  France  and the U.K., with
the U.S. in tow, intervened -- for reasons so surprising they
are best saved for a future column -- the tribes found
themselves with a motive to continue a civil war that would
otherwise have been a very short rebellion.  Who’s in Charge Here?  Now the greatest danger is that, if and when Qaddafi is
killed or flees, the political and public infrastructure of the
country will be so badly damaged that no one will be able to put
it back together. In addition to the warring Arab factions,
there are also Berber tribes (the preferred term today is
Amazigh) that have their own language, ethnicity and interests.  Sound familiar? In  Baghdad  in the spring of 2003, days
after the looting ended, with ministries in ruins and garbage
gathering on the streets, an Iraqi in a poor Shiite neighborhood
asked me, “Who is the government?” There was no good answer --
nor would there be for several years.  The destruction of a
state is infinitely easier than its reconstruction.  The longer
it takes to remove Qaddafi, the more the Libyan state is
degraded, and the greater the probability that Tripoli will
become Baghdad-sur-Mer.  Forlorn  Syria   Then there is Syria, where the protests have been brave,
broad and sustained -- yet have so far failed to penetrate the
main middle-class enclaves of Damascus and Aleppo. The Bashar al-Assad regime has killed hundreds of protesters and arrested -
- and doubtless tortured -- many more.  The protests have, perhaps inevitably, begun to reflect the
sectarian difference between the Sunni majority and the Alawite
regime. The Alawites, whose religion is a kind of dissident
Shiite sect, have historically made common cause with Christians
and Druze (themselves religious sectaries). News reports have
protesters chanting  “Christians to Beirut, Alawites to the
grave.”   The Assad regime is in many ways captive to  Iran , and has
facilitated the destructive rise of Lebanese Hezbollah. Its
demise, should that occur, would in any ordinary universe be
cause for unmitigated celebration. But in its wake may come --
who knows what?  Cornered Ruling Elite  The best-case scenario would be a democratic accommodation
between elements of the military and Sunni Islamists -- the
present and likely future arrangement in Tunisia and Egypt. But
Syria is also capable of collapsing into all-out civil war. The
Alawites, like  Saddam Hussein ’s Baathists in  Iraq , have nowhere
else to go, and little reason to expect future good treatment
from the people they have spent decades oppressing.  The rise of democratic aspirations in the Arabic-speaking
world is inspiring. Muslim democrats are going to get the chance
to succeed or fail, and they are most likely to copy the Turkish
model of moderation and liberal rights, not the Iranian one of
religious autocracy.  But democratic transition is almost impossible when a state
is weak or failing. Internal divisions make the challenge even
harder. Fear of failed nation-building will make external aid
scarce. In retrospect, the successes of Eastern European
democratization were a near-miracle.  The rise of the post-
dictatorial Arab world may take an actual one.  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at Harvard, is a Bloomberg
View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts at
 noah.feldman@harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  