-- 
Qaddafi’s Days Numbered as Libyan Coffers Run Dry, Ex-Central Banker Says

-- B y   L a r a   S e t r a k i a n   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-06-13T20:00:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/qaddafi-running-out-of-money-ex-bank-head.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s rule
may end in weeks as international sanctions starve him of funds
and rebels and NATO-led forces cut off fuel shipments, said
Farhat Bengdara, who ran Libya’s central bank before defecting.  Qaddafi’s government had $500 million in cash at the end of
February, when Bengdara fled, the former banker said in an
interview in Dubai yesterday.  “It’s almost run out,” Bengdara said. “They have no fuel
for tanks. It’s a matter of weeks” before Qaddafi is forced out
of power, he said.  Western and Arab leaders have demanded an end to Qaddafi’s
four-decade rule, and North Atlantic Treaty Organization
aircraft have targeted his forces in a military campaign about
to enter its fourth month. Qaddafi has already held on longer
than NATO initially predicted. The military mission was expected
to last “weeks, not months,” French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  told parliament in Paris on March 24.  “We must give them their due,” French Navy Admiral
Philippe Coindrau said in a June 9 video press conference from
the  Charles de Gaulle  aircraft carrier off the Libyan coast.
“Our opponents are extremely professional, extremely reactive
and extremely aggressive. They are experienced and well trained
and don’t hesitate to use violence.”  Coindrau said he saw no signs that Qaddafi’s forces have
been able to replace lost equipment or acquire fuel and
ammunition. “Every day we notice the attrition of Qaddafi’s
forces,” he said.  Gold Bars  As a sign finances are being squeezed, Qaddafi’s government
has asked commercial banks to hand over whatever hard currency
they have, Bengdara said. Four top bank managers have defected,
he said, though he declined to name them to protect their
families. The regime also has 155 tons of gold bars that can’t
easily be used to pay for supplies, he said.  NATO planes are monitoring movement on the ground, making
it hard to supply fuel to the regime’s forces. “They tried to
import fuel by any means, but they couldn’t,” Bengdara said.  Libya  was producing as much as 1.4 million barrels a day of
crude oil before the conflict, though the country has been
unable to export oil since the start of coalition air raids.
Refineries have also been shut because of the fighting. In
April, a tanker took about 1 million barrels from rebel-
controlled territory, which was marketed by Qatar’s national oil
company.  ‘Very Few Days’  Abdurrahman Shalgham, Libya’s former foreign minister and
representative to the  United Nations , told reporters in  Abu
Dhabi  last week that rebel troops will reach Tripoli, the
capital, within “some weeks” and that Qaddafi has “very few
days” left in power.  That optimism isn’t shared by everyone. Even if Qaddafi’s
soldiers are handicapped, Tripoli isn’t about to fall to the
forces of the Benghazi-based  National Transitional Council , said
Karim Mezran, a political-science professor at  Johns Hopkins
University  in Bologna,  Italy , and a researcher at Rome’s Center
for American Studies.  “The British and French totally overestimated the rebels
and totally underestimated Qaddafi’s support,” Mezran said in a
telephone interview. He said the most likely outcome is a semi-
permanent partition between the eastern region of Cyrenaica
under rebel control and the western region of Tripolitania under
loyalist control.  NATO Targets  Since taking over the military mission on March 31, NATO
says it has flown more than 4,100 strike sorties. Two days ago,
alliance aircraft struck vehicles, gun emplacements, and weapons
depots around Tripoli, Waddan, Misrata, and Brega, NATO said on
its website. British aircraft sank two speedboats near Misrata,
the  U.K. Defense Ministry  said in a statement.  Rebels have been able to ease the siege of Misrata in the
West. Yet the bulk of their forces are more than 400 miles (650
kilometers) east of Tripoli, where the front line between the
towns of Ajdabiya and Brega has barely budged in a month.  “It is not a war of intense military confrontations, but
of little skirmishes,” said Yves Bonnet, a retired former head
of the French anti-terrorism agency who visited Libya on a fact-
finding mission in April. “Qaddafi clearly has support in
Tripolitania and is clearly unpopular in Cyrenaica. It’s a very
crystallized situation.”  An aide to NTC leader Mahmoud Jebril said last week that
Saif al-Islam, Qaddafi’s son, had approached rebels in recent
days to negotiate an exit from power for his father. Senegal’s
President Abdoulaye Wade, as well as  Turkey  and  South Africa ,
are seeking a solution.  Russia ’s envoy for the Libyan conflict,
Mikhail Margelov, has also said he’s ready to negotiate an end
to the fighting.  “The leaders on both sides can’t talk to each other
because there’s too much bad blood,” said Eric Denece, founder
of the French Center for Intelligence Research, who was part of
the same mission as Bonnet. “But their underlings could start
to talk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lara Setrakian in Dubai at 
 lsetrakian1@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  