-- 
Hart’s Rank Said to Have Made $1.6 Billion Graham Offer Topping Silgan

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-06-14T03:35:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/rank-said-to-have-made-offer-for-graham.html
Rank Group Ltd., the packaging
company owned by  New Zealand  billionaire  Graeme Hart , is the
bidder that submitted an unsolicited $1.64 billion cash takeover
offer for Graham Packaging Co., according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  The person declined to be identified because the talks are
private. York, Pennsylvania-based Graham, which is controlled by
Blackstone Group LP, said in a statement yesterday that it got a
$25-a-share bid that topped a share and cash offer it accepted
from  Silgan Holdings Inc. (SLGN)  in April. Graham, which didn’t
identify the bidder, rose 17 percent in New York trading.  Hart, New Zealand’s richest man, is attempting to further
consolidate the packaging industry in a move that would lift his
deals in the past 12 months to $7.5 billion and add  customers 
including Coca-Cola Co.,  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and BP Plc. Since
acquiring Pactiv Corp., the maker of Hefty trash bags, for $4.5
billion in November, his closely held Rank has added Honeywell
International Inc.’s car-care products unit for $950 million and
UCI International Inc. from  Carlyle Group  for $375 million.  “The all-cash bid theoretically is superior,” Ghansham Panjabi, a Roseland, New Jersey-based analyst at Robert W. Baird
& Co. who rates Silgan “outperform” and Graham “neutral,”
said in a report.  Rank is not commenting, Linda Scott, a spokeswoman for Hart,
said in an e-mail to Bloomberg News today. Jeff Grossman, a
Graham spokesman, declined to comment.  The latest offer “could reasonably be expected to lead to
a proposal that is superior” to the pending Silgan deal, Graham
said in the statement, without naming the bidder.  Packaging Deals  More than $14.2 billion in packaging-company deals have
been announced so far this year, compared with $2.57 billion in
the first half of last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Buying Graham would lift Rank’s acquisitions since 2006 to
about $17 billion.  Graham jumped $3.68 to $25.63 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. Silgan fell $2.53, or 5.9
percent, to $40.62 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Silgan agreed on April 13 to pay 0.402 of a share and $4.75
in cash for each Graham share. That’s equal to $21.08 per share,
based on Silgan’s closing price, or $1.38 billion.  The rival bid is from “a private non-investment grade
company,” Silgan said yesterday in a separate statement. Silgan
said it has the right to match the new bid for three days if
Graham officially declares the offer superior.  Robert B. Lewis, a spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-
based Silgan, didn’t immediately respond to calls seeking
further comment.  Hart’s Fortune  Hart, 56, is a former tow-truck driver who has amassed a
fortune investing in businesses from lumber to dairy. He made at
least $2 billion from the buyout and resale of  Goodman Fielder
Ltd. (GFF) ,  Australia ’s biggest baker.  Hart switched his focus to packaging in March 2006 with the
purchase of New Zealand’s biggest lumber company Carter Holt
Harvey Ltd. for NZ$3.3 billion ($2.7 billion). Later that year
he paid $500 million for International Paper Co.’s beverage
packaging unit and 2.83 billion francs ($3.4 billion) for SIG
Holding AG.  Reynolds Foil  In 2007, Hart added Alcoa Inc.’s packaging unit for $2.7
billion to form Reynolds Group Holdings Ltd, the world’s second-
largest drink-carton maker and producer of the namesake foil.  Hart’s wealth was estimated at NZ$5.5 billion last year
when he topped National Business Review’s annual  Rich List , a
position he held in eight of the prior nine years.  Hart dropped out of Auckland’s state-run  Mount Roskill
Grammar School , which counts Oscar-winner Russell Crowe among
former students, to start work. He later returned to study and
earned an MBA at the  University of Otago .  Silgan could raise the cash portion of its offer to $10 a
share, a $5.25 increase, and the acquisition would still be
accretive by about 45 cents a share,  Robert W. Baird ’s Panjabi
said in a telephone interview. Silgan is unlikely to make a
“knockout” proposal and its final offer may be about $26, he
said.  “There is a very high probability that they counter,”
Panjabi said.  Break Fee  Graham would be required to pay Silgan a termination fee of
$39.5 million if it accepts the competing bid, Graham said in an
April filing.  Graham, which makes plastic containers for drinks,
condiments and motor oil, is 61 percent-owned by Blackstone. It
had net income of $54.7 million on sales of $2.51 billion last
year.  Silgan said in April its combination with Graham would
create a company with annual sales of more than $6.2 billion and
about 180 plants operating in 19 countries employing more than
17,000 people. Silgan has said it also would assume Graham’s net
debt of $2.68 billion.  Calculations for the offer values were based on 65.7
million Graham shares outstanding on April 25, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 