-- 
Transatlantic to Merge With Allied World in $3.2 Billion Deal

-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 
2011-06-13T13:37:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/transatlantic-combines-with-allied-to-add-business-outside-u-s-.html
Transatlantic Holdings Inc. (TRH)  and
 Switzerland ’s Allied World Assurance Company Holdings AG agreed
to merge in a $3.2 billion deal that creates a reinsurer with
operations in 18 countries.  Allied will exchange 0.88 of a share for each Transatlantic
share to form TransAllied Group Holdings AG, with Transatlantic
shareholders owning about 58 percent of the combined firm, the
companies said yesterday in a statement. The combination of New
York-based Transatlantic, which gets more than half its revenue
from the U.S., and Allied, which received approval last year to
establish a syndicate at Lloyd’s of  London , will have total
invested assets of $21 billion.  Mid-sized reinsurers have been combining to gain scale and
diversify their business mix in the past two years. Max Capital
Group Ltd., the reinsurer co-founded by Louis Moore Bacon,
merged last year with rival Harbor Point Ltd. to form Alterra
Capital Holdings Ltd. In 2009, Validus Holdings Ltd. bought IPC
Holdings Ltd.  “Being part of a leading global reinsurance group could
improve its competitive position,”  Standard & Poor’s  said today
as it announced it may upgrade Allied’s credit rating. The deal
will “decrease earnings volatility,” according to the ratings
firm, which said it also may upgrade Transatlantic. Reinsurers
provide coverage to primary insurers for some of the biggest
risks, including natural disaster claims.  Expanding Coverage  The combined company will be based in Switzerland, which
may provide a tax advantage for Transatlantic, said Matthew Heimermann, an analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co., in a note to
clients today. TransAllied may expand accident-and-health
coverage, S&P said.  Transatlantic provides medical-malpractice protection and
guards corporate officers against lawsuits through so-called
directors-and-officers coverage. Allied offers professional
liability insurance. S&P has a BBB+ counterparty  credit rating 
for Allied.  Scott Carmilani, 46, chairman and chief executive officer
of Zug, Switzerland-based Allied, will be president and CEO of
the combined company and Robert Orlich, 63, CEO of
Transatlantic, will retire with the completion of the deal,
which the companies expect in the fourth quarter, according to
the statement.  “The structural flexibility we are creating in the deal,
will give us the ability to allocate capital to the highest-
return geographies,” Michael Sapnar, the Transatlantic
executive who will lead reinsurance operations for the combined
company, said in a conference call today. “This capability
enables us to identify and seize opportunities ahead of our
competitors, especially in emerging markets.”  ‘Bigger is Better’  The deal values Transatlantic at about $51.10 a share, or
about $3.2 billion, based on Allied’s June 10 closing price and
62.5 million Transatlantic shares outstanding, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The price is 16 percent above
Transatlantic’s June 10 close.  Transatlantic climbed to $49.40 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading at 9:36 a.m. Allied slipped $1.20 to $56.87.  “In the reinsurance business, having a larger capital base
means you get more access to business,” Michael Paisan, an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in an interview earlier
this year, discussing possible consolidation in the industry.
“Bigger is better.”  Allied, which closed last week at $58.07, has gained 29
percent in the past year through June 10, compared with a 5.7
percent decline for Transatlantic.  Allied was formed in  Bermuda  in November 2001 by investors
including  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , Chubb Corp. and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and had been repurchasing securities
from its founding shareholders. In February, Allied paid $53.6
million to buy back its last warrant from AIG.  AIG Bailout  AIG also owned a majority stake in Transatlantic, which it
sold in two public offerings after taking a $182.3 billion
taxpayer bailout.  “AIG played a formative role in our development and has
been a major contributor in our past success,” Orlich said in a
July 2009 conference call. “The separation opens new
opportunities for us, giving us greater strategic and financial
flexibility. We are embracing our independence.”  Goldman Sachs and Moelis & Co. were financial advisers to
Transatlantic, and Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP and Lenz &
Staehelin acted as U.S. and Swiss legal counsel.  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  acted as financial adviser to Allied, and Willkie Farr &
Gallagher LLP and  Baker & McKenzie  provided as U.S. and Swiss
legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Eichenbaum in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  