-- 
Trans Media to Sign $450 Million Capital Expenditure Loan with Lenders

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   B a m b a n g   D j a n u a r t o
-- 
2011-06-13T07:52:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/trans-media-said-to-be-in-discussions-to-borrow-450-million-from-18-banks.html
PT Trans Media Corpora, a unit of
 Indonesia ’s Para Group, is close to signing a $450 million loan
facility, according to Para Group Chairman, Chairul Tanjung.  The nine “arrangers helped us in syndication and we’ll use
the proceeds for our capital expenditure,” Tanjung said in a
phone interview from Jakarta today. “We will sign the loan
soon.”  Trans Media has interests in financial services, media and
entertainment and natural resources, and its business  comprises 
a television channel which broadcasts to more than 150 million
people in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy plus a controlling
stake in a nationwide TV station, according to its  website . Nine
banks joined the original nine in syndication, two people
familiar with the matter said earlier today.  The facility, which has an average life of about 2.6 years,
pays non-domestic lenders a margin of 400 basis points more than
the London interbank offered rate, one of the people said,
asking not to be identified as details are private. These banks
receive interest and fees, for the so-called top level all-in
payment, of 436.5 basis points, the person said.  Domestic banks are being offered a margin of 450 basis
points more than Libor, for a top level all-in payment of 486.5
basis points, the person said.  Banks contributing $30 million and more receive a fee of 95
basis points, those contributing $20 million to $30 million get
85 basis points, while those committing up to $20 million get 70
basis points, the person said.  The nine lenders hired to help arrange the loan were
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., BNP Paribas SA,
Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, HSBC Holdings Plc, ING
Groep NV, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
and Standard Chartered Plc., another person familiar with the
matter said on April 18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Bambang Djanuarto in Jakarta at 
 bdjanuarto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  