-- 
Transatlantic May Draw Rival Bid to $3.2 Billion Merger Deal

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-06-13T20:36:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/transatlantic-may-draw-rival-bids-to-3-2-billion-reinsurance-merger-deal.html
Transatlantic Holdings Inc. (TRH) , the
reinsurer that agreed to merge with Allied World Assurance
Company Holdings AG in a $3.2 billion deal, may draw competing
bids from rival insurers, according to Barclays Plc.  The stock transaction values New York-based Transatlantic
at 79 percent of book value, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, said  Jay Gelb , a Barclays analyst, in a note today.  The price “could result in other property-casualty
insurers and reinsurers competing for Transatlantic,” he said,
without specifying possible bidders.  Reinsurers with less than $4 billion in market value have
been combining to gain scale and diversify their business mix.
Clients and investors prefer carriers with larger capital bases,
according to W. Marston Becker, chief executive officer of
 Alterra Capital Holdings Ltd. (ALTE)  Alterra was formed last year by
the merger of Max Capital Ltd. and Harbor Point Ltd.  Transatlantic would have to pay a breakup fee of $115
million if it backs out of the deal, the company said today in a
conference call. The reinsurer’s investors would face taxes on
gains from the transaction, which could encourage shareholders
to favor an alternative, said Jim Agah of hedge fund Millennium
Partners LP on the call. Transatlantic investors would own 58
percent of the company if the deal is completed.  “The odds of someone coming in that’s bigger, that’s going
to end up owning 50 percent or more of the combined company, I’d
say is very high here,” said Agah. Millennium held more than
200,000 shares of Transatlantic as of March 31, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The deal values Transatlantic at $51.10 a share based on
Allied’s June 10 closing price. That’s 16 percent more than
Transatlantic’s close that day.  ‘Getting the Premium’  “We are getting the premium as the larger entity, and the
valuation is in line with peers,” said Michael Sapnar,
Transatlantic’s chief operating officer, on the call. Sapnar
will lead reinsurance operations for the combined company, to be
called TransAllied Group Holdings AG.  Taxes from the transaction will probably be “relatively
insignificant” for the majority of Transatlantic shareholders,
said Thomas Cholnoky, senior vice president of  investor
relations  with Transatlantic, in an interview.  Transatlantic rose $4.18, or 9.5 percent, to $48.19 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Zug,
Switzerland-based Allied World slipped $2.63, or 4.5 percent, to
$55.44. The deal is expected to be completed in the fourth
quarter and the combined company will be domiciled in
 Switzerland , according to the companies.  ‘Significant Overlap’  There’s no “obvious alternative bidder” for
Transatlantic,  John Hall , an analyst with  Wells Fargo & Co . said
in a note to clients today. He downgraded the firm to “market
perform” from “outperform.”  “Anybody else that would try to come in and break up this
transaction, whether it would be going after us or going after
Allied World, is probably going to have to deal with significant
overlap,” said Transatlantic’s Cholnoky. “Overlap always leads
to a lot of business erosion as well as people erosion.”  Transatlantic provides medical-malpractice protection and
guards corporate officers against lawsuits through so-called
directors-and-officers coverage. Allied offers professional
liability insurance. TransAllied may expand accident-and-health
coverage,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a note today.  ‘A Certain Size’  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Moelis & Co. were financial
advisers to Transatlantic, and Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP and
Lenz & Staehelin acted as U.S. and Swiss legal counsel.  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  acted as financial adviser to Allied, and Willkie Farr &
Gallagher LLP and  Baker & McKenzie  provided as U.S. and Swiss
legal counsel.  Becker, who previously led Max Capital, struck the Harbor
Point deal after being outbid in 2009 for IPC Holdings Ltd. by
rival reinsurer Validus Holdings Ltd.  “You’ve got to be of a certain size to be a player in the
business and to be an acceptable counterparty risk,” Becker
said in a 2010 interview at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  