-- 
RBC Begins Marketing Home-Equity Pricing to Fight Consumer-Lending Decline

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-06-13T20:03:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/rbc-begins-marketing-home-equity-pricing-to-fight-consumer-lending-decline.html
Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the country’s
largest lender, is starting a nationwide marketing campaign
touting lower home-equity loan rates than most rivals to gain
customers as it combats a slowdown in Canadian consumer lending.  The Toronto-based firm is putting its home-equity message
on about 270 billboards in Ontario, the most populous province,
and in more than 85 newspapers and on 50  radio stations  across
 Canada .  “We’re attacking, aggressively,” David McKay, group head
of Canadian banking, said June 9 in an interview at Bloomberg’s
Toronto office. “Now is the time to attack on price, because
that’s a big differential to the customer.”  Shrinking margins are eroding operating results of Canadian
banks, which may mean weaker-than-expected performance this
year,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a June 10 note. Retail loan
demand is slowing as households continue to pay down debt, which
was at a near record 146 percent of disposable income in the
fourth quarter, according to data compiled by  Statistics Canada .
The U.S. household debt level was 147 percent, according to the
 Federal Reserve  and the Bureau of Economic Analysis.  “We have observed that the banks are ratcheting up
competition in the pricing of retail (particularly mortgages)
and commercial-loan products and paying up on deposits to
strengthen their market share positions,” Lidia Parfeniuk, an
S&P credit analyst, wrote in the note.  Royal Bank is offering home-equity loans at prime-plus-0.5
percent, lower than the prime-plus-1 percent rate of most other
Canadian lenders, McKay said. The lower rate is due to a price
“mismatch” left from 2009 when Royal Bank raised the rate on
the loans for new customers by less than other lenders, he said.  ‘Pricing Inequity’  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  is the only lender among Canada’s six-
biggest banks with the same home-equity rate as Royal Bank’s.
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce and  National Bank of Canada (NA)  have a rate of
prime-plus-1 percent, according to spokesmen. The prime rate at
the Canadian banks is 3 percent.  “If you’ve got a pricing inequity in the marketplace,
that’s great,” McKay said. “And if you can do it and increase
your margins, you’re in a very good place.”  Royal Bank has benefited from a higher net interest margin
in Canada, the difference between what the bank charges for
loans and pays in deposits. The margin rose to 2.78 percent from
2.76 percent a year earlier during the fiscal second quarter,
the only Canadian bank to report higher domestic margins.  The lender has offset lower margins on mortgages with
higher margins from deposits, savings and guaranteed investment
certificates, McKay said.  More Branches  Canadian banking is Royal Bank’s largest unit, generating
about 58 percent of profit in the year ended Oct. 31. Earnings
from Canadian  consumer lending  in the second quarter rose 16
percent to C$851 million ($871 million) from the year-earlier
period as mortgages, personal loans and credit-card balances
expanded and loan-loss provisions fell.  Royal Bank will continue adding branches, aiming for 15 to
25 a year in Ontario, Saskatchewan,  Alberta  and other high-
growth areas across Canada, McKay said. The lender had 1,212
offices in the country at the end of April, more than any other
domestic bank.  Royal Bank fell 21 cents to C$54.13 at 4 p.m. in trading on
the Toronto Stock Exchange. The shares have risen 3.5 percent
this year, matching gains for the 10-member S&P/TSX Banks Index.  To contact the reporters on this story: Doug Alexander in
Toronto at   dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  