-- 
Real Ventures Planning $423-Million Investment in U.K. Biomass

-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 
2011-06-13T12:41:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/real-ventures-planning-423-million-investment-in-u-k-biomass.html
Real Ventures Ltd., a U.K. biomass
project developer, is investing 260 million pounds ($423
million) in building two wood-to-power plants in the country.  The company plans to build one plant at the Port of
Immingham in the country’s northeast and another on the Isle of
Wight, it said in an e-mailed statement.  Both plants will have an electrical capacity of about 50
megawatts and a heat capacity of 130 megawatts, Ray Tucker,
chief executive officer of Isle of Wight-based Real Ventures,
said today by e-mail. They will use forest residues to generate
power.  Bio-energy could meet about 30 percent of the nation’s 2020
clean energy target, which requires the country to get 15
percent of its energy from renewable sources, according to the
 website  of the Department of Energy and Climate Change.  Planning permission is expected to be given before year-
end, said Tucker. If successful, construction will begin in 2012
and both facilities should start working in late 2014. The
electricity will be fed into the local grid and the heat will be
made available locally for use in industry and other buildings
and facilities, according to the statement.  Real Ventures is investing 130 million pounds in each
facility, and development work through to planning consent is
being privately funded by project shareholders, Tucker said.
During the later stages, including build, funding will be
through equity investment and debt, he said.  The company is planning to develop similar plants elsewhere
in the U.K., said Tucker. He declined to disclose potential
locations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  