-- 
Treasury 10-Year Break-Even Rate Narrowest in Six Months on Fed Rate View

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-06-13T11:29:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/treasury-yields-near-six-month-low-before-retail-sales-inflation-reports.html
The difference in yields on 10-year
Treasuries and inflation-indexed debt was the narrowest in six
months on reduced speculation the  Federal Reserve  will raise
 interest rates  early next year.  U.S. 10-year note yields were within seven basis points of
this year’s low before reports this week forecast to show retail
sales fell and inflation slowed. Two-year note yields were
little changed after nine weeks of drops as Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said on June 7 that record stimulus is still needed.  “There is not that much risk that this week’s data could
change the underlying soft tone for the  U.S. economy ,” said
 David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in
London. “In the current market environment, it is very possible
that yields stay below 3 percent.”  Yields on 10-year notes climbed one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.98 percent at 7:24 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
security due in May 2021 fell 3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000 face
amount, to 101 6/32.  The 10-year note yields dropped on June 9 to 2.92 percent,
the lowest level since Dec. 3. Two-year note yields increased
one basis point to 0.41 percent after sliding about 40 basis
points since April 8. The last time two-year note yields fell
for nine straight weeks was in February 2008.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the
break-even rate, touched 2.14 percentage points, the narrowest
since Dec. 9.  Retail Sales  Retail sales fell 0.5 percent in May in the first decline
in 11 months, according to the median forecast of 63 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s Commerce Department
report. Consumer-price inflation slowed last month to 0.1
percent, the slowest since November, a separate survey showed
before figures from the Labor Department on June 15.  Record monetary stimulus is still needed to boost a
“frustratingly slow” U.S. recovery, Bernanke said on June 7 in
Atlanta. He will speak on fiscal sustainability in  Washington 
tomorrow.  In  Europe , ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  are at odds over investors’
role in the second Greek rescue in 14 months. The dispute turns
on how politicians will make good on a promise to push creditors
to pay some of the cost, a step that Trichet said on June 9
could be an “enormous mistake.” Finance ministers have called a
special meeting tomorrow.  ‘Safe-Have Bid’  “Treasuries are being driven partly by what’s going on in
the  euro zone ,” Commerzbank’s Schnautz said. “There’s a
safe-haven bid that should continue to be very strong.”  China’s lending tumbled in May and  money supply  grew at the
slowest pace since 2008, adding to signs that the world’s
second-biggest economy is cooling.  China  is the biggest foreign
holder of Treasuries.  Futures contracts show the likelihood that the Fed will
increase its target rate for overnight lending by the March 2012
meeting dropped to 22 percent, from 35 percent odds a month ago.
The Fed has held its target rate for overnight lending between
banks at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  The central bank intends to keep reinvesting proceeds from
its agency and mortgage-backed holdings into Treasuries after
its $600 billion bond-buying program concludes this month. It’s
 scheduled  to buy $4 billion to $5 billion of U.S. debt today as
part of its bond-purchase plan.  Goldman Sachs View  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its prediction for 10-year
Treasury yields at the end of June to 3 percent from 3.5
percent,  Dominic Wilson , an economist at the firm in New York,
said in a report today.  The  U.S. government debt  most vulnerable to inflation is
generating the best returns as the economic recovery slows and a
rally by commodities cools. Zero-coupon bonds, known as strips,
maturing in 30 years have returned 9.5 percent this quarter,
compared with 6.6 percent for the benchmark bond due in 2041,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Strips are “where you make the most money,” said Van Hoisington, Austin, Texas-based president of Hoisington
Investment Management Co., which oversees about $5 billion,
almost half of which is invested in the debt. “We have been in
the camp that economic activity would be very sluggish. So far
that seems to be on point.”  U.S. lenders are considering trimming their holdings as a
safety measure against volatility that may occur if Democrats
and Republicans fail to increase the debt ceiling by Aug. 2 to
avoid government the Financial Times reported, citing a senior
banker it didn’t identify.  Treasuries have returned 3.2 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German  government bonds  have
gained 0.4 percent, while U.K. gilts have advanced 2.8 percent,
the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  