-- 
Treasuries Fall as Drop in Crude Oil Buoys Outlook for Struggling Economy

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-06-13T20:16:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/treasuries-fall-as-u-s-stock-index-futures-gain-yield-erases-weekly-drop.html
Treasuries fell, with 10-year notes
erasing last week’s gains, on speculation a drop in crude oil
will support the struggling U.S. economy.  Government debt rose earlier after Federal Reserve Bank of
Richmond President Jeffrey Lacker said he has thought about
lowering his forecast for U.S. growth and Standard & Poor’s cut
Greece’s rating. Retail sales decreased last month and inflation
slowed, government reports are forecast to show this week.  “We’re battling back and forth across 3 percent in 10s,”
said  Richard Bryant , senior vice president for fixed income in
 New York  at MF Global Inc., one of the 20 primary dealers that
trade directly with the Fed.  Yields on 10-year notes gained two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.99 percent at 4:11 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
security due in May 2021 dropped 1/8, or $1.25 per $1,000 face
amount, to 101 5/32.  The 10-year note yields fell two basis points last week in
their fourth straight five-day decrease and slid on June 9 to
2.92 percent, the lowest level since Dec. 3. Two-year note
yields were little changed at 0.40 percent today after dropping
last week for a ninth straight week.  Crude oil for July delivery decreased 2.4 percent to $96.96
a barrel. The  S&P 500 Index  was little changed after rising as
much as 0.5 percent and dropping as much as 0.4 percent.  Recent U.S. economic data have prompted Lacker to consider
lowering his forecast for growth, he told reporters after a
speech in Roanoke, Virginia.  Lacker on Economy  “The last batch of data is disappointing, and it is
causing us to rethink our outlook for growth for the remainder
of the year,” Lacker said. “We could be stuck below trend for
some time,” he said.  Lacker, who votes on monetary policy next year, said he
plans to revise his forecast for 2011 growth to below the 3.5
percent to 4 percent he expected in January. He declined to give
a new forecast.  The central bank intends to keep reinvesting proceeds from
its agency and mortgage-backed holdings into Treasuries after
its $600 billion bond-buying program concludes this month. It
purchased today $4.6 billion of  U.S. debt  maturing from August
2018 to May 2021.  Futures contracts show the likelihood that the Fed will
increase its target rate for overnight lending by the March 2012
meeting dropped to 22 percent, from 35 percent odds a month ago.
The Fed has held its benchmark at zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008.  ‘Frustratingly Slow’  Record monetary stimulus is still needed to boost a
“frustratingly slow” U.S. recovery, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 7 in Atlanta. He is due to speak in
 Washington  on fiscal sustainability tomorrow.  Retail sales fell 0.5 percent in May in the first decline
in 11 months, according to the median forecast of 63 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s Commerce Department
report.  Inflation slowed last month to 0.1 percent, the slowest
since November, a separate survey showed before figures from the
Labor Department on June 15.  The  U.S. government debt  most vulnerable to inflation is
generating the best returns as the economic recovery slows and a
rally by commodities cools.  Zero-coupon bonds, known as strips, maturing in 30 years
have returned 9.5 percent this quarter, compared with 6.6
percent for the benchmark bond due in 2041, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  Strips Demand  Strips are “where you make the most money,” said Van Hoisington, Austin, Texas-based president of Hoisington
Investment Management Co., which oversees about $5 billion,
almost half of which is invested in the debt. “We have been in
the camp that economic activity would be very sluggish. So far
that seems to be on point.”  S&P cut  Greece ’s credit rating by three levels to CCC, and
the rating company said the nation is “increasingly likely to
restructure its debt.”  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and
 Germany ’s Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  are at odds over
investors’ role in the second Greek rescue in 14 months. The
dispute revolves around how politicians will make good on a
promise to push creditors to pay some of the cost, a step that
Trichet said on June 9 may be an “enormous mistake.” Finance
ministers have called a special meeting tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  