-- 
Treasury Strips Emerging as Wall Street Favorite as U.S. Recovery Falters

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-06-13T12:40:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/treasury-strips-emerging-as-wall-street-favorite-as-u-s-recovery-falters.html
The  U.S. government debt  most
vulnerable to inflation is generating the best returns as the
economic recovery slows and the rally in commodities cools.  Demand for zero-coupon bonds is rising so fast that Wall
Street banks created $205.2 billion of them as of May, the most
in three years and just $3.6 billion away from levels last seen
at the beginning of 2000, according to the Treasury Department.
So-called Strips maturing in 30 years have returned 9.5 percent
this quarter, compared with 6.6 percent for the benchmark bond
due in 2041, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Bonds lost money in the first quarter of the year as the 15
percent increase in  oil prices  and the  Federal Reserve ’s efforts
to pump money into the financial system by purchasing $600
billion of Treasuries raised expectations for faster inflation.
Those worries dissipated as reports showed rising unemployment,
a slowdown in manufacturing, a drop in home sales and lower
 consumer confidence .  Strips are “where you make the most money,” said Van Hoisington, president in Austin,  Texas  of Hoisington Investment
Management Co., which oversees about $5 billion, almost half of
which is invested in the debt. “We have been in the camp that
economic activity would be very sluggish. So far that seems to
be on point.”  Bonds are pricing in 2.18 percent inflation in the next
decade, compared with an average rise in the consumer price
index of 2.5 percent since 2000, based on the spread between
yields on 10-year government notes and Treasury Inflation-
Protected Securities. The difference, known as the break-even
rate, peaked this year of 2.66 percent on April 11.  ‘Very Severely’  “The markets are reacting very, very severely to weakening
economic data,” said Ray Humphrey, a senior  money manager  for
TIPS, government and non-dollar debt at Hartford Investment
Management, which oversees about $160 billion in Hartford,
 Connecticut . “You buy the cheapest and most sensitive part of
the U.S. bond curve, and that would be your 30-year Strips.”  Yields on 10-year Treasuries fell to 2.92 percent on June
9, the lowest since December 2010, from 3.77 percent on Feb. 9,
the 2011 high. The yield on the 3.125 percent security maturing
in May 2021 rose 4 basis points to 3.01 percent as of 8:27 a.m.
in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Signs of a slowing expansion caused yields on Treasuries of
all maturities to fall to an average of 1.59 percent on June 8,
the lowest level since November, from 2.19 percent on Feb. 8,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Forecasts Cut  Barclays Capital Inc. cut its forecast for second-quarter
economic growth on June 3 to a 2 percent annual rate from 3.5
percent. The U.S. jobless rate climbed to 9.1 percent last
month.  Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities dropped in March to the
lowest level since 2003, figures from the S&P/Case-Shiller index
showed on May 31.  The amount of zero-coupon bonds created by Wall Street
firms has climbed from $171.7 billion in November 2009, which
was the least since February 2003. Strips lost 17 percent in the
fourth quarter of 2010 as inflation concerns mounted and the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities rallied 15.7
percent, the best three-month return since the second-quarter of
2009. Treasuries lost 2.7 percent and U.S. corporate bonds
declined 0.57 percent.  Banks also made fewer Strips because concern about
inflation increased as the Fed’s quantitative-easing programs
and record borrowing by the administration of President  Barack Obama  pumped an unprecedented $2.3 trillion in cash into the
economy.  “Two-year yields and in are going to be very-well anchored
at these low levels,” said  Carl Lantz , head of interest-rate
strategy in  New York  at Credit Suisse Group AG, today in an
interview with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television. “On
balance, we’ve seen more evidence that the Fed’s going to be on
hold for an extended period.”  Best and Worst  Zero-coupon securities due in 30 years had their best and
worst months in more than two decades during the last recession.
The debt returned 26.7 percent in December 2008, a month after
the consumer price index plunged 1.8 percent, the biggest drop
in history, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. A month later, the securities lost 24 percent.  Returns for Strips due in 30 years of 5.3 percent in May
top the 1.6 percent for Treasuries overall and 1.21 percent for
corporate bonds, the data show.  Treasuries don’t pay enough for Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , who reiterated on June 3 that
mortgages, corporate bonds and sovereign debt of other nations
are more attractive than U.S. government securities for his $243
billion Total Return Fund. Rates are too low once inflation is
taken into consideration, with bonds due in 10 years and less
yielding under the 3.2 percent increase in the  consumer price
index  in the 12 months ended April 30.  Higher Rates  While returns on Pimco’s flagship fund are lagging behind
peers this year, Gross has a history of rebounding. In 2007, the
Total Return Fund trailed the performance of 80 percent of
comparable funds through June before rebounding to beat 99
percent of them for the year as the Fed began to lower  interest
rates , as he predicted, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Rates will be rising,” said Rob Crimmins, a fixed-income
manager in New York at RS Investments, which oversees $30
billion. “This latest month of weaker-than-expected economic
data is transitory. The economy will pick up in the second half
of the year.”  Strips were conceived by Salomon Brothers Inc. and Merrill
Lynch & Co. in the 1980s after then-Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker 
broke the back of inflation that reached a 14.8 percent annual
rate in March 1980 by raising interest rates as high as 20
percent, even as the economy slipped into the longest post-World
War II recession. By the time he stepped down from the central
bank in 1987, inflation slowed to 4.3 percent.  Inflation Tame  Strips -- short for separate trading of registered interest
and principal of securities -- are created by breaking up the
interest and principal payments of a debenture and selling them
at a discount.  The consumer price index is forecast to rise 0.1 percent in
May from the previous month when the Labor Department reports
the data on June 15, according to the median estimate of 60
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The gauge increased 0.4
percent in April, matching the survey forecast and following a
0.5 percent advance in March, figures showed May 13.  The S&P GSCI index of commodities has fallen 7.9 percent
from the high this year on April 8. Crude oil futures have
declined 13 percent from the peak of $114.4 a barrel on April
29.  ‘Coming Down’  “Inflation expectations definitely have been coming
down,” said Amit Agrawal, a senior manager of government and
inflation-linked bonds in New York at PineBridge Investments,
which oversees $81 billion. “People believe the Fed isn’t going
to raise rates this year and QE2 is going to end,” he said in
reference to the Fed’s second round of asset purchases, known as
quantitative easing. The central bank’s $600 billion in
purchases of Treasuries are due to end this month.  While Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in the June 7
speech that record monetary stimulus is still needed to boost an
“uneven” and “frustratingly slow” economic recovery, he gave
no indication the Fed will start a third round of QE.  “On the margin, you don’t have the stimulus on the
economy,” said Thanos Bardas, a managing director at Chicago-
based Neuberger Berman LLC, which oversees about $85 billion in
fixed-income assets. “Rates should go down, not up.”  Longer-maturity Strips are becoming more desirable as
investors push back their estimates for when the Fed will begin
raising interest rates to 2012. A rate increase of 1 basis point
would cause a 30-year Strip with a par value of $1,000 to fall
29.3 basis points, or $2.93 per $1,000 face amount. A Treasury
with the same maturity would decline $1.67.  “Zeros are relatively cheap,” Hoisington said. “If
you’re bullish on risk coming down, if you think the long end is
going to do better, then zeros are unusually attractive.”  -- With assistance from Liz Capo McCormick, Caroline Salas Gage,
Erik Schatzker and  Tom Keene  in New York and  Steve Matthews  in
Atlanta. Editors: Philip Revzin, Dave Liedtka  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  