-- 
Regional Leaders Back Demands for Changes in Zimbabwe Before Elections

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-06-13T12:04:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/regional-leaders-back-demands-for-changes-in-zimbabwe-before-elections.html
Zimbabwe  needs a new constitution
and guarantees on a free press before it can hold elections,
regional leaders said yesterday, in a blow to President  Robert Mugabe ’s calls for an election this year.  A “roadmap” for fresh elections in Zimbabwe should be
drawn-up by August, Southern African Development Community
Executive Secretary Tomaz Salomao said following a summit in
Johannesburg.  Mugabe wants elections this year, while the rival Movement
for Democratic Change has called for them to be delayed until
safeguards can be put in place. The South African Institute of
Race Relations said on June 3 that Zimbabwe’s electoral register
was flawed, containing the “impossible figure” of more than
40,000 people older than 100 years, and needed to be replaced.  “SADC is now in tune with the Zimbabwean people and the
previous solidarity with the dictator Robert Mugabe has been
pierced,” Jameson Timba, an MDC spokesman and minister said in
an interview yesterday.  In March, SADC’s security “Troika”, comprising  South
Africa , Mozambique and Zambia, criticized Mugabe for escalating
violence against his MDC opponents. There was no repeat of that
criticism yesterday.  MDC secretary-general, Tendai Biti, who is also Zimbabwe’s
finance minister, said the SADC statement would “hasten the
democratization” of Zimbabwe.  Zanu-PF  Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front
delegation didn’t comment immediately after the Johannesburg
summit. The party released a statement today denying SADC had
pressured Mugabe.  “There is nothing in the communique issued by SADC
yesterday to even remotely suggest that the regional body put
any pressure on President Mugabe as claimed or that SADC
endorsed the report of the Livingstone summit,” it said in a
statement published by the  South African Press Association .  Zimbabwe’s Zanu-PF-controlled  Herald  newspaper today quoted
Mugabe as saying the SADC summit went “very well.”  Zimbabwe’s power-sharing government, in place since
February 2009, was formed after the MDC won parliamentary
elections in 2008. A simultaneous presidential ballot was won by
MDC leader  Morgan Tsvangirai , though by an insufficiently wide
margin to avoid a run-off. The MDC leader withdrew from the
contest, citing escalating violence against his supporters by
Zimbabwe’s security and police forces, as well as militia units
controlled by Zanu-PF.  Save Face  The two parties now share power in a SADC-brokered
agreement that allowed Mugabe to retain control of security
agencies and gave the MDC control of most economic and finance
ministries.  While the statement has been toned down to “allow Zanu-PF
to save face,” the content is the same as SADC agreed to at its
meeting in Livingstone, Zambia in March, Crisis in Zimbabwe
Coalition, a group of human rights activists lobbying for change
in Zimbabwe, said in an e-mailed statement.  “From this communique it is inconceivable that elections
will be held in 2011,” the Johannesburg-based group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  