-- 
Regulatory ‘Sci-Fi,’ Iceland Deposits, Telmex: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-06-13T11:58:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/regulatory-scifi-hong-kong-auditor-iceland-s-last-warning-compliance.html
Executives at some of the largest
U.S. financial institutions and regulators clashed last week
over efforts by watchdogs to impose higher capital requirements
and other rules.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon
took an unusual step in pressing  Federal Reserve  Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke in a public forum on June 7 on whether regulators have
gone too far in reining in the U.S. banking system and are
slowing economic growth.  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  Vice Chairman
Mark Grier said standards for insurers and banks will fail in a
crisis. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair 
warned against forgetting the lessons of the credit crunch.  Regulators are drafting rules as part of the Dodd-Frank Act
overhaul of financial-industry oversight, seeking to prevent a
recurrence of the 2008 credit freeze that prompted a taxpayer
bailout of the banking system. Regulators worldwide are devising
new capital requirements.  The Fed supports a proposal at the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision that calls for a maximum surcharge of three
percentage points on top of a 7 percent minimum requirement on
the largest global systemically important financial
institutions, or SIFIs, according to a person familiar with the
discussions.  Dimon’s exchange with Bernanke gave other executives cover
to criticize proposed international capital standards.  Prudential’s Grier told analysts that Solvency II and Basel
III, the insurer and bank standards being readied by regulators,
will fail in a crisis. Grier said he refers to SIFIs as “sci-
fi,” which is short for science fiction. The biggest U.S. life
insurers, including No. 2 Prudential, will be subject to Fed
oversight if they are deemed systemically important.  Bob DeFillippo , a Prudential spokesman, said the sci-fi
characterization was meant to reflect the change represented by
the involvement of federal agencies in insurance oversight.
Grier said he hopes federal regulators won’t apply bank rules to
insurers and that he expected Prudential to face greater
scrutiny, even if it isn’t designated a SIFI.  In Washington, financial companies and their lobbyists have
pushed back against restrictions being crafted under Dodd-Frank.  Compliance Policy  CFTC, SEC Set Forum on Swap Dealer, Participant Definitions  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the
Securities and Exchange Commission will hold a joint public
forum to discuss proposed definitions of terms such as “swap
dealer,” “security-based swap dealer,” “major swap
participant” and “major security-based swap participant” as
required under the Dodd-Frank Act.  The CFTC, which is writing derivatives rules along with the
SEC, announced the June 16 meeting in an e-mail statement June
10.  Telmex Says Rural Rules to Cut Investments, Plans Appeal  Telefonos de Mexico SAB, the nation’s largest land-line
phone carrier, said it won’t invest in rural zones of the
country if the government doesn’t overturn new rules cutting its
fees to connect calls to those areas by 95 percent.  The company will ask the  Communications and Transportation
Ministry  to overturn the Federal Telecommunications Commission
rate cut, Regulatory and Legal Affairs Director Javier Mondragon
said on a conference call June 9. The reduction is legally
unfounded, he said.  Telmex and its parent company, billionaire Carlos Slim’s
America Movil SAB, are contending with a series of government
decisions to reduce their dominance of Mexico’s phone market.
The telecommunications commission in March more than halved the
fees America Movil can charge rivals to complete calls to its
Mexican wireless unit.  The rate cut reduces the fee Telmex can charge to complete
calls in areas where it is the only phone provider to 4 centavos
(0.34 cent) from 75 centavos, the telecommunications agency said
in a  statement  June 9.  Telmex is still calculating how the new rules would affect
the company financially, said Arturo Elias, Slim’s son-in-law
and Telmex’s communications director.  For more, click here.  Grassley Says SEC Response in SAC Trading Inquiry Unacceptable  U.S. Senator Chuck Grassley said the Securities and
Exchange Commission provided an unacceptable response to his
request for information relating to its stock-trading inquiry
into hedge-fund firm SAC Capital Advisors LP.  Grassley’s remark referred to a letter to him from SEC
Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami . In the letter, dated June
9, Khuzami declined to provide specific information about any
trades or the status of any investigation.  Grassley, the senior Republican on the Judiciary Committee,
asked SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro in a May 24 letter to explain
how the regulator has handled specific allegations of suspicious
trading. Grassley’s office has said he has received about 20
examples from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority of
possible insider trading involving SAC Capital. SAC, led by
Steven Cohen, hasn’t been charged with any wrongdoing.  Financial-Industry Groups Urge Delay of U.S. Resolution Rules  Lobby groups representing some of the world’s biggest
financial companies want U.S. regulators to delay rules that
would govern resolutions of systemically risky firms to allow
more time to review and revise the proposal.  The Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
must clarify what constitutes a “credible” plan for unwinding
a complex firm before requiring companies to file so-called
living wills, six groups including the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association and the  Institute of International
Bankers  said in a letter to the regulators, according to a copy
obtained by Bloomberg News.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires firms deemed systemically
important to file plans with the Fed and the FDIC for how they
could be unwound in event of their failure.  The groups, representing firms including JPMorgan Chase &
Co,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Bank of New York Mellon,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and Deutsche Bank AG, urged regulators to
push back implementation of the rules from next month to as late
as January of next year.  Under the living-wills provision, companies with at least
$50 billion in assets will have to provide information on their
debt, funding, capital and cash flows. Firms that fail to file
workable plans for unwinding their business could be subject to
increased capital, leverage or liquidity requirements as well as
restrictions on their growth, activities or operations.  Financial-industry criticism of the living-wills measure is
part of a broader pushback against Dodd-Frank, the regulatory
overhaul law.  For more, click here.  Fed to Expand Annual Capital Exams to 35 Largest U.S. Banks  The Federal Reserve said it will expand a capital-planning
program to the 35 largest U.S. banks to ensure they have an
adequate buffer in an economic crisis.  Bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in assets
will be required to adopt “robust, forward-looking capital
planning processes that account for their unique risks,” the
Fed said June 10 in a statement in Washington.  Banks would be required to submit plans to raise dividends
or repurchase stock as part of the reviews, to begin early next
year, the Fed said. Firms whose plans are rejected would have to
get approval before distributing capital.  The reviews are part of a broader effort, which includes
the Dodd-Frank Act overhauling financial regulation, to tighten
supervision of financial firms and reduce the risk of another
crisis. In March, the 19 largest banks, such as  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co., completed capital reviews that
allowed many of them to boost dividends or buy back shares.  The initiative may force banks to hold additional capital
and reduce profitability measured by return on equity, said Bert
Ely, an industry consultant based in Alexandria, Virginia.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Goldman Unlikely to Face Charges From Senate Report, Bove Says  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is unlikely to face charges from
investigations into the firm’s mortgage practices before the
financial crisis, according to a June 8 note to investors by
Richard X. Bove, an analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC.  Bove suggested less than a month ago that clients sell the
firm’s stock because the U.S. Department of Justice was under
pressure to bring claims, based on a report from the U.S.
Senate’s  Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations  accusing
Goldman Sachs of misleading buyers of mortgage-linked
investments.  The firm, which paid $550 million to settle Securities and
Exchange Commission charges related to its marketing of mortgage
securities, was subpoenaed by the Manhattan District Attorney’s
office for information on business practices leading into the
credit crisis, two people familiar with the matter said last
week.  The Senate subcommittee said that documents uncovered in
its two-year investigation of the financial crisis showed the
firm took large short positions against the 2007 housing market
and aggressively marketed the short position to clients.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein
said at last year’s hearing that Goldman Sachs didn’t have a
“massive short” against the housing market, and was acting as
a “market maker” in selling collateralized debt obligations
and other mortgage-backed investments to clients.  Bove said in his note that evidence is “now mounting”
that the company did not have a “net short position” and
Blankfein did not misrepresent the matter to the Senate
committee.  For more, click here.  Hong Kong Auditor Rejected by U.S. on Inspection Concerns  The  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board   rejected  Hong
Kong-based Zhonglei CPA Co.’s application to become a registered
U.S. auditor, citing an inability to inspect its work for
companies based in China.  This was the first time the PCAOB blocked an auditor since
toughening rules in October. The decision follows the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s increased focus on Chinese-
based companies that trade on American stock markets. The SEC
cautioned investors June 9 about buying stakes in companies that
gain listings through so-called reverse mergers,  saying  they may
be prone to “fraud and other abuses.”  Lynn Turner, a former SEC chief accountant who serves on a
PCAOB advisory group, said the board is “putting a line in the
sand” and telling China its certified public accounting firms
must conduct “high-quality audits” and let the board in to
inspect.  Zhonglei CPA decided to stop the application process to be
registered as an U.S. auditor and focus on its Hong Kong and
China businesses, the company said in an e-mailed response to
Bloomberg News June 10.  For more, click here.  Barclays, Lloyds, RBS Get Extension on PPI Complaints by FSA  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc were given more time to handle customer
complaints on a kind of loan insurance after a court challenge
to the rules created a backlog.  The banks must respond to the complaints on payment-
protection insurance as much as 16 weeks, rather than eight
weeks, the Financial Services Authority said in a statement
today. The  British Bankers’ Association , an industry group, lost
a court challenge in April of the FSA’s guidelines on how
lenders should handle PPI complaints.  Margaret Cole , the FSA’s interim director for business
conduct cited “a huge backlog” in explaining the decision.  PPI generates as much as 5.5 billion pounds in annual
revenue for U.K. banks, with about 6.5 million policies sold in
2006, the FSA has estimated. The insurance covers payments on
credit cards and mortgages in case of illness or unemployment.  Customers who bought PPI rarely compared prices and terms
or switched providers. The FSA introduced rules in August aimed
at bringing competition into the market for this type of
insurance.  U.K. Banks May Beat ‘Merlin’ Business Lending Targets, FT Says  The U.K.’s largest banks may beat actual lending targets
set out in the so-called Project Merlin agreement signed between
the banks and the government in February, the Financial Times
reported, citing figures disclosed last week by Minister for
 Business and Enterprise  Mark Prisk.  The agreement’s targets, labeled “stretch targets,” are
about 10 percent lower than the official “capacity targets”
published in the Merlin announcement, the FT said. The “stretch
target” for total corporate lending in 2011 is 168 billion
pounds ($273 billion) compared with a “capacity target” of 190
billion pounds, the newspaper said.  BofA Plans Shutdown of Proprietary Bond-Trading Unit  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest U.S. bank, is shutting a
unit that makes bets on bonds with the firm’s own capital, said
three people briefed on the decision.  Julie Hyman reported on Bloomberg Television’s “Bottom
Line With Mark Crumpton.”  For the video report, click here.  Kuwait Bourse Seeks to Slow Government Plan, Favors Nasdaq  Kuwait Stock Exchange is seeking to slow government plans
to sell the country’s bourse on concern it remains too weak
three years after the credit crisis triggered a $5 billion
bailout of financial companies.  The government must sell 50 percent of the exchange by the
end of this year under the terms of a law approved in February
2010. The remainder is to be sold to Kuwaitis in an initial
public offering, said Hamed al-Saif, the director and head of
the exchange.  Kuwait’s benchmark index has lost 9.3 percent this year.
Companies are recovering after the global financial crisis
forced the government to guarantee all local bank deposits in
2008 and approve a $5 billion economic rescue package to help
bolster financial institutions.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the second-biggest operator of U.S.
stock exchanges, signed an 18.3 million dinar ($66.7 million)
contract with KSE in October 2009 to supply it with a trading
system and advisory services.  The exchange has been regulated since March by the  Capital
Markets Authority , or CMA, the country’s first stock-market
regulator.  For more, click here.  Courts  Iceland Gets Final Warning on Icesave Depositor Claims  Iceland has three months to compensate the U.K. and Dutch
governments for as much as $5.3 billion in depositors’ claims
before being taken to the  European Free Trade Association ’s
Court, the bloc’s watchdog announced June 10.  A letter of final warning was sent to the north Atlantic
island’s government June 10 by the  EFTA Surveillance Authority ,
the agency said in an e-mailed statement June 10.  Iceland is obliged under European rules to guarantee a
minimum compensation of 20,000 euros ($29,000) for Dutch and
British account holders in failed lender Landsbanki Islands hf’s
high-yielding Icesave accounts, according to the agency. The
authority checks that Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein act in
line with European Union rules.  U.K. and Dutch depositors were compensated by their own
governments after the failure of Landsbanki. A government-struck
agreement on Iceland’s repayment terms of the $5.3 billion used
to repay depositors was rejected by Icelandic voters in an April
9 referendum, prompting ESA to continue infringement
proceedings.  About 350,000 U.K. and Dutch depositors risked losing their
savings when Landsbanki tumbled along with the rest of the north
Atlantic island’s debt laden financial industry in October 2008.  Taylor Bean Ex-President Bowman Gets 30-Month Fraud Sentence  Raymond Bowman, former president of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker
Mortgage Corp., was sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison for his
part in a $3 billion mortgage fraud.  Desiree Brown, the lender’s former treasurer, received a
six-year term. Both were sentenced June 10 in federal court in
Alexandria, Virginia, for their roles in a scheme that duped
some of the largest U.S. financial institutions, targeted the
federal bank bailout and contributed to the failures of
Montgomery, Alabama-based Colonial Bank and its parent,  Colonial
BancGroup Inc. (CBCGQ)   U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema said she wouldn’t ban
the two from seeking jobs in the mortgage industry after serving
their time. Both will be required to pay restitution to victims,
though the amount hasn’t been determined.  Prosecutors said both should receive shorter terms than the
maximums because they admitted their crimes and helped the
government in its case against Lee Farkas, Taylor Bean’s former
chairman. A jury in Alexandria found Farkas guilty April 19 of
14 counts of conspiracy and bank, wire and securities fraud
after a two-week trial. He is scheduled to be sentenced on June
27.  The Bowman case is U.S. v. Bowman, 11-cr-00118, the Brown
case is USA v. Brown, 11-cr-00084, and the Farkas case is USA v.
Farkas, 1:10-cr-00200, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Virginia (Alexandria).  Interviews/Speeches  EFSF’s Regling Sees More Signs of ‘Financing Fatigue’  Klaus Regling, chief executive officer of the European
Financial Stability Facility, talked about management of the
European sovereign debt crisis.  He spoke at the  European Central Bank  and Its Watchers
conference in Frankfurt. Regling addressed a number of topics
including the euro-area budget, rules, and institutional
changes.  For the video, click here.  Schlosstein Says U.S. Must Be ‘Cautious’ With Bank Rules  Ralph Schlosstein, chief executive officer of  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR) , talked about financial regulation and other
factors affecting large U.S. banks.  Schlosstein, who spoke with Betty Liu on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop,” also discussed the prospects for
Wall Street layoffs.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Barings Fund Chairman Duckworth Joining U.K. SFO as Director  Simon Duckworth, the chairman of the  Barings Targeted
Return Fund , will join the U.K. agency that prosecutes white-
collar crime as a non-executive director.  Duckworth, who is also a non-executive director of  Fidelity
European Values Plc (FEV)  and chairman of the National Olympics
Security Oversight Group, will start in the role on July 1, the
U.K. Serious Fraud Office said in a statement. His role will be
to link the SFO with both the London police and business, the
agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 