-- 
Rescued Nigerian Banks Drop on Report Loans Won’t Be Converted

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-06-13T11:59:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/rescued-nigerian-banks-drop-on-report-loans-won-t-be-converted.html
Nigerian lenders bailed out by the
 central bank  in 2009 fell after ThisDay reported the central
bank won’t convert those emergency loans to them into equity,
citing Governor Lamido Sanusi.  Oceanic Bank International Plc (OCEANIC)  fell for the 14th day,
losing the maximum daily limit of 5 percent to 1.14 naira by
11:50 a.m. in Lagos.  Bank PHB Plc (PLATINUM)  lost 4 kobo, or 4.8 percent,
to 80 kobo, heading for the weakest close since at least January
2006. Afribank Plc lost 4.6 percent to 1.04 naira, the lowest
intraday level since January 2002.  Converting the loans into equity will require changing the
Banking and other Financial Institutions Act, or the Central
Bank of  Nigeria  Act, the Lagos-based  ThisDay  newspaper cited
Sanusi as saying.  The bank provided 620 billion naira ($4 billion) to eight
of the nation’s 24 lenders after they amassed 700 billion naira
of non-performing debt by lending to investors who speculated in
stocks, according to the  Economic and Financial Crimes
Commission  in Abuja. Sanusi fired the chief executives of the
distressed lenders and set up Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria,
or Amcon, to buy bad debts from the banks to help recapitalize
them before matching them with potential buyers.  The central bank also provided funds to Union Bank of
Nigeria,  Finbank Plc (FIRSTINL) , Equitorial Trust Bank Ltd.,
 Intercontinental Bank Plc (INTERCON)  and  Spring Bank Plc. (SPRINGBK)   The bailed-out lenders are technically insolvent with a
combined negative asset value of 1.28 trillion naira, Daily
Trust
cited Sanusi as saying today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 