-- 
Wendy’s/Arby’s to Sell Arby’s to Roark, Undoing Peltz Tie-Up

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-06-13T20:45:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/roark-capital-agrees-to-acquire-arby-s-sandwich-chain-in-430-million-deal.html
Wendy’s/Arby’s Group Inc. agreed to
sell control of the Arby’s chain in a deal valued at $430
million, undoing the tie-up engineered by billionaire investor
 Nelson Peltz .  Roark Capital Group, an Atlanta-based buyout firm, will get
about 82 percent of Arby’s, while Wendy’s/Arby’s will keep the
rest, the companies said today in a statement. The buyer will
pay $130 million in cash and assume $190 million of debt.  The move gives Roark control of more than 3,600 sandwich
shops under the Arby’s brand. The chain, united with Wendy’s in
2008 under the direction of Peltz, has sought to remake its
brand after at least two years of slumping sales, debuting ads
touting its menu items as “Good Mood Food.”  “This is definitely a risk,” said Peter Saleh, a
restaurant analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in  New York . Roark
is “taking on a brand that needs some capital behind it and
needs some help.”  Peltz’s Trian Fund Management LP was the largest
Wendy’s/Arby’s shareholder as of March 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Peltz, who united Wendy’s and Arby’s in a
$2.56 billion all-stock deal, is the restaurant’s biggest
individual investor. Wendy’s/Arby’s shares have declined 23
percent since the deal closed on Sept. 29, 2008. Carrie Bloom, a
spokeswoman for Trian, declined to comment on the purchase.  Restaurant Deals  Wendy’s/Arby’s rose 4 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $4.56 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have fallen 1.3 percent this year.  There have been 52 restaurant transactions globally in the
past 12 months, Bloomberg data show. The largest was 3G Capital
Inc.’s takeover of Burger King Holdings Inc. for $3.93 billion
completed in October.  After the Arby’s sale was announced in January, Peltz said
during an investor conference that Wendy’s had “substantial”
growth potential. He likened the Wendy’s/Arby’s breakup to
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , which has sold off smaller brands including
Boston Market Corp. and Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc.  The purchase will trigger an income tax benefit worth $80
million to Wendy’s/Arby’s, whose stake in Arby’s is valued at
$30 million under the transaction terms. Last year, sales at
Arby’s fell 9.2 percent to $966 million, while Wendy’s dropped
2.7 percent to $1.98 billion.  “You just have a lot more competition from the fast-casual
space and from Subway,” Saleh said. Brothers Leroy and Forrest
Raffel opened the first Arby’s in  Ohio  in 1964, serving roast
beef sandwiches, potato chips and iced tea.  ‘Growth Opportunities’  Wendy’s won’t use cash proceeds from the sale to pay down
any more debt, Chief Executive Officer Roland Smith said in a
telephone interview. The company will “invest in the Wendy’s
growth opportunities” by promoting new menu items, remodeling
stores and opening new locations both in the U.S. and abroad.  Arby’s and Wendy’s both face surging raw-ingredient costs,
with beef prices expected to rise 20 percent this year, Chief
Financial Officer Stephen Hare told analysts during a conference
call on May 10.  In May, the company said first-quarter sales at Wendy’s
North American stores open at least 15 months were little
changed. That compares with positive U.S. sales trends at
McDonald’s Corp., which has drawn customers with smoothies and
McCafe drinks. Arby’s North American same-store sales rose 5.5
percent in the quarter, as the restaurant introduced premium
Angus roast beef.  Roark’s other restaurant investments have included
 Seattle ’s Best Coffee and the Auntie Anne’s pretzel chain. The
firm, which has more than $1.5 billion in equity capital under
management, also said today that it acquired the Corner Bakery
Cafe and Il Fornaio restaurant chains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  