-- 
Rogers Communications Plans Sportsnet as Growth ‘Engine’ With MLSE or Not

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-06-13T20:17:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/rogers-plans-sportsnet-as-growth-engine-with-mlse-or-not-2-.html
Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) , Canada’s
largest mobile-phone company, said its Sportsnet TV will become
an “engine” for growth as it expands sports content into radio
and magazines.  “In a world where disintermediation becomes a threat for
programming that is U.S. based, a great opportunity is local and
sports” content, Chief Executive Officer Nadir Mohamed said in
an interview at Rogers’s Toronto headquarters today. “If you
look at Sportsnet, that’s been a key engine that we see for
growth for us.”  Rogers, which owns Major League Baseball’s Toronto Blue
Jays, added the Sportsnet tag to the FAN 590 radio station in
January and last week said it will introduce a biweekly magazine
under the brand with a circulation goal of 100,000. Mohamed
wouldn’t say whether Rogers will bid for Maple Leaf Sports &
Entertainment Ltd., owner of the  National Hockey League ’s Maple
Leafs and the  National Basketball Association ’s Raptors.  “There are certain things that just lead you to
speculate,” he said.  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan  said in March it plans to
sell its controlling stake in Maple Leaf Sports, which also owns
the Air Canada Centre arena and the Toronto FC soccer club.
Forbes magazine reported last month that Rogers and Montreal-
based competitor  BCE Inc. (BCE)  may be among bidders for the sports
business, which may be valued at more than $2 billion.  Vertical Integration  Sports entertainment made up about 1.2 percent of Rogers’s
C$12.2 billion ($12.5 billion) in revenue last year, according
to Bloomberg data. The company gets about half its sales from
mobile-telephone service, with the rest mainly coming from
cable-TV and Internet, as well as media content and advertising.  Canada ’s telecommunications regulator is scheduled to hold
so-called vertical integration hearings next week into whether
to restrict media-asset ownership by companies that control both
content and distribution.  The Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications
Commission hearings in Ottawa come after BCE in April completed
its C$3.2 billion purchase of broadcaster CTV, and Shaw
Communications Inc. paid C$2 billion in October for Canwest
Global Communications Corp.’s television assets.  Content owners must weigh the importance of making money
from selling programming at higher profit versus ensuring
widespread distribution, Mohamed said.  “From a media perspective you want maximum distribution,”
he said.  “From a platform perspective, there isn’t a company out
there that owns more than, give or take, a third” of the
Canadian audience, he said. “You don’t want to be denying
access to the other two-thirds of Canadians access to that
content.”  Rogers fell 51 cents to C$35.83 at 4 p.m. in Toronto Stock
Exchange trading. The stock has climbed 3.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  