-- 
Rothschild Loses to Evercore as Boutique Firms Left Off British Bonus List

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 
2011-06-13T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/rothschild-loses-to-evercore-as-boutique-left-off-fsa-bonus-list.html
Evercore Partners Inc. and Greenhill
and Co. will be able to pay employees guaranteed bonuses
forbidden at rival deal advisers such as NM Rothschild & Sons
Ltd., after escaping scrutiny from the U.K. Financial Services
Authority.  Evercore, founded by former U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary
 Roger Altman , is among companies offering financial advice such
as Gleacher Shacklock LLP and Moelis & Co. that aren’t on a list
of 2,776 firms covered by FSA bonus rules. Competitors including
Rothschild, New York-based  Perella Weinberg  Partners LP and
 Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  are on the list, obtained by Bloomberg News after a
Freedom of Information request.  The guidelines apply to firms taking risks with their own
cash or that of clients, leading to the exclusion of advisory
firms that may not manage money in the U.K. Companies covered by
the rules, which must be implemented by next month, can’t offer
multiyear guaranteed bonuses and will only be able to pay one-
year guarantees in “exceptional circumstances,” the FSA said.  “This represents a major competitive disadvantage,” John Purcell, founder of recruitment firm Purcell & Company, said.
“For bankers making the switch from bulge bracket to boutique
there is always a risk that it won’t work out. Offering a two-
year guarantee will help compensate for the lack of security.”  The rules enact guidelines approved by European Union
 regulators  last year to curb excessive risk-taking. The FSA
expanded the firms covered by bonus rules a hundredfold from the
27 biggest banks to more than 2,700 entities last year to
conform to the European guidelines.  ‘Delighted’ Firms  Joseph Eyre , FSA spokesman, declined to comment, as did
officials at New York-based Moelis, Perella Weinberg,
Rothschild, Evercore, Greenhill, Lazard and London-based
Gleacher Shacklock.  “In the advisory world, guarantees have become par for the
course for bankers at managing director level and above,” John
Axworthy, a partner at recruitment firm J. Robert Scott in
London, said in a telephone interview. “Firms that are not on
the FSA’s list will be delighted.”  The agency applied the guidelines from the EU to its
revised bonus rules and separated financial firms into four
groups based on their size.  The FSA didn’t provide details of the tiers it uses to
categorize companies because the information “could prejudice
the commercial interests of the firms concerned” and lead to
“speculation about the capital resources of the firms,” the
regulator’s information unit said in an e-mail.  Commercial Interests  “We consider the need to protect the commercial interests
of the firms outweighs the public interest in disclosing
proportionality tiers each firm falls within,” the FSA said.  Senior employees at banks with more than 1 billion pounds
($1.6 billion) in capital comprise the top tier and are subject
to the toughest rules on share retention and cash payouts. As
much as 60 percent of a bonus payout for risk-takers and senior
managers must be deferred for at least three years, and half of
the amount must be in the form of shares.  Small banks, building societies and  hedge funds  face fewer
rules on share awards, disclosure and bonus deferrals, under the
FSA rules. Unlike the largest financial institutions, they don’t
need to set up special remuneration committees.  The expanded FSA list includes commodities firms such as
Glencore Commodities and Armajaro Derivatives, high frequency
traders at Getco Europe, U.K. arms of foreign banks such as  Bank
of India  and Bank of  China  as well as Methodist Chapel Aid, a
lender that refrains from investing in tobacco, gambling or
alcohol companies, according to its  website .  Some financial advisors “rallied against the rules” when
they were drafted last year, Jake Green, a financial services
lawyer at  Ashurst LLP  said in a telephone interview in  London .
“They’ve obviously lost the battle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  