-- 
Russian Shares Decline Globally as Oil Retreats to Four-Week Low

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-06-13T22:04:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/russian-shares-decline-globally-as-oil-retreats-to-four-week-low.html
Russian shares traded in  London  and
 New York  fell yesterday as oil declined to a four-week low and
 Greece  was assigned the world’s lowest debt rating.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, slipped 1.1 percent, led by retreats for
OAO Novatek, the nation’s second-largest gas producer, and coal
miner OAO Mechel. OAO Rosneft, the country’s top oil producer,
fell 0.2 percent in London and American depositary shares in OAO
Lukoil, the country’s second-biggest oil company, sank 0.5
percent in New York. Russia markets were closed yesterday for a
national holiday.  The shares declined as speculation mounted that tighter
monetary policy in  China  and  Europe ’s debt crisis will slow
global economic growth. Crude oil,  Russia ’s biggest export, fell
as fuel demand from China slowed and natural gas futures sank as
forecasts showed temperatures will be below normal in the U.S.
Northeast, reducing use of the power-plant fuel.  “The outlook is still very uncertain for Russia,” Julian Rimmer, a trader of Russian shares at CF Global Trading, said on
in e-mailed comments. “The global backdrop remains extremely
vulnerable.”  The Russian depositary index of shares traded on the London
Stock Exchange fell 0.5 percent yesterday. The Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials fell 1 percent.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, also produces
metals including steel, copper, nickel, palladium and aluminum.
Oil and natural gas make up a quarter of its economic output.  Oil, U.S. Stocks  Oil fell 2 percent to settle at $97.30 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since May 17.
Prices are 32 percent higher than a year ago.  U.S. stocks rose, rebounding from six weeks of losses, as a
pickup in takeovers and the cheapest valuations in almost a year
helped offset concerns about an economic slowdown. Emerging-
market stocks declined, sending the benchmark index down 0.4
percent to the lowest level in almost three weeks.  The 30-stock Micex Index fell 0.5 percent to 1,683.96 in
Moscow on June 10, paring the gain last week to 3.1 percent.
Rosneft dropped 1.1 percent. OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest
gas producer, sank 1.3 percent and OAO Sberbank, Russia’s
biggest lender, dropped 1.8 percent. The dollar-denominated RTS
Index declined 0.8 percent to 1,926.02.  In the week to June 8, Russia-focused equity funds saw
their first weekly inflow since five business days to May 4,
 Brad Durham , managing director at mutual fund tracking company
EPFR Global, said in a telephone interview.  Inflows into Russia-focused equity funds this year through
June 8 totaled $3.8 billion, compared with $1.8 billion in the
same period of last year, Durham said.  -- Editor: Brendan Walsh, Marie-France Han  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  