-- 
Mideast Borrowers Return to Loan Market as ‘Arab Spring’ Unrest Subsides

-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s   a n d   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 
2011-06-13T11:17:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/sabic-dubai-lead-43-increase-in-mideast-loans-as-region-s-unrest-wanes.html
Sabic Capital, Commercial Bank of
Dubai, and Investment Corp. of Dubai are leading a 43 percent
increase in lending to Middle Eastern companies as political
unrest in the region wanes.  Middle Eastern borrowers are in the market with $5.5
billion of loans, which if completed would bring second-quarter
volume to $11.5 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with $8 billion raised in the first
quarter.  Companies are returning to the market after the so-called
Arab Spring toppled autocratic leaders in  Egypt  and  Tunisia . The
cost of insuring Egyptian debt against default tumbled to the
lowest since Tunisian ruler Zine El Abidine Ben Ali fled
following weeks of protests against unemployment, corruption and
dictatorship in January. President  Hosni Mubarak  of Egypt
resigned less than a month later.  “At the start of the year there was a lot of uncertainty
about the Arab Spring and the popular uprisings in the  Middle
East ,” said Dirk Hentschel, head of distribution and loan
syndication for  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa  at WestLB AG
in London. “That has improved a bit now and we’re seeing an
increasing pipeline of deals.”  ‘Safe Haven’  Dubai’s Investment Corp., the government’s main holding
company, is in talks with banks to refinance a $4 billion term
loan with a new $2.8 billion facility. Even after the tensions
have subsided, the interest on the deal of 350 basis points over
the  London  interbank offered rate is higher than the average 215
basis-point margin for Dubai loans over the past year, according
to Bloomberg data. Borrowing costs have been elevated ever since
state-owned Dubai World was forced to restructure about $25
billion of debt in 2009.  “Dubai has emerged as a safe-haven,” said Raza Agha,
Middle East and Africa economist at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS)  in London. “You can see that many of the deals coming out
involve them and  Saudi Arabia , both of which are perceived to be
relatively less vulnerable to the situation in Middle East and
North Africa.”  A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. Libor is the rate
banks charge to lend to each other.  Commercial Bank of Dubai, which is 20 percent-owned by
Dubai’s government, hired  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  to arrange a new $400
million loan to refinance a facility expiring this year.  Suspended Negotiations  Sabic Capital, a unit of government-owned Saudi Basic
Industries Corp., this month appointed five banks to arrange a
$2 billion revolving-credit facility paying 40 basis points over
Libor. State-owned Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the last Saudi
borrower to raise funds in the syndicated loan market, paid
interest margins of 13 basis points and 16 basis points over
Libor for one-year and five-year credit lines in November.  Borrowing remains subdued compared with last year, when
banks lent $22 billion to Mideast and North African companies in
the second quarter.  Cairo-based Egyptian General Petroleum Corp. suspended
negotiations for a new $2 billion loan after 18 days of protest
forced Mubarak to resign on Feb. 11. EGPC, which asked banks to
submit bids for a five-year  term loan  by Jan. 17, abandoned
talks with lenders and said a decision would not be made until
calm returns to the region.  Pro-democracy movements continue to face state crackdowns
in Yemen, Bahrain and Syria, and in  Libya  are backed by the
 United Nations .  Group of Eight nations said last month they would help
support democratic transition in Egypt and Tunisia by making at
least $40 billion available to their governments through grants
and loans. The  International Monetary Fund  says the region will
need more than $160 billion over the next two years.  Egypt’s five-year credit default swaps slid to 292 basis
points last week, the lowest since Jan. 14. The cost of insuring
the nation’s bonds against default rose 7 basis points today to
310 basis points, according to CMA.  “The CDS spread widening we saw in the aftermath of the
crisis has reversed, although spreads are not back to pre-crisis
levels,” RBS’s Agha said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net ; Karen Eeuwens in London 
4383 or  keeuwens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 