-- 
Saudi Crude Oil Exports May Be ‘Beneficial’ for Frontline

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-06-13T21:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/saudi-crude-oil-exports-may-be-beneficial-for-frontline-1-.html
Higher Saudi Arabian oil exports
after OPEC’s failure to reach agreement on production may be
“very beneficial” for tanker companies including Frontline
Ltd., said Lazard Capital Markets LLC.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries last week
failed to set new quotas on crude supplies.  Saudi Arabia , the
group’s largest exporter, will increase production, though it’s
too early to say by how much, a Saudi industry official with
knowledge of the matter who declined to be identified said June
10. The kingdom will boost output to a daily 10 million barrels
in July from 8.8 million, Al-Hayat reported that day, citing
senior officials it didn’t identify.  “Any production increase in the Middle East Gulf should be
very beneficial to crude tanker rates” and owners,  New York- 
based Lazard analyst Urs Dur said in an e-mailed report today. A
10 percent increase in output from the region would cause
charter costs for very large crude carriers, or VLCCs, to rise
by about 50 percent, he estimated.  The cost of hiring the vessels on the industry’s benchmark
Saudi Arabia-to-Japan route slipped 0.1 percent today to 58.53
Worldscale points, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in London.
That gave owners daily rental income from the voyage of $12,992.  Frontline, the largest supertanker operator, rose 2.8
percent to $16.29 on the New York Stock Exchange, giving the
company a market value of $1.27 billion. Higher Saudi exports
may also aid  Overseas Shipholding Group Inc. (OSG) , which gained 3
percent to $26.35, valuing the company at $802.8 million.  Port Tariffs  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a metric ton, are revised
annually by the Worldscale Association in London to reflect
changing fuel costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  Each flat rate assessment gives owners and oil companies a
starting point for negotiating hire rates without having to
calculate the value of each deal from scratch.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a gauge of crude-oil
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, was
unchanged at 732 points after 12 declines in a row.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in  London  at 
 anightingale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net  