-- 
SEC Seeks Halt to Sales of 2 China-Based Stocks

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-06-13T22:12:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/sec-seeks-halt-to-sales-of-2-china-based-stocks.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, as part of a broader probe of China-based firms
listed on U.S. exchanges, moved to halt new share offerings in
two companies after their independent auditors resigned.  SEC investigators claimed that  China Intelligent Lighting
and Electronics Inc. (CIL)  and China Century Dragon Media Inc. failed
to disclose that their independent auditors had quit after
questioning the accuracy of financial statements, according to
separate orders released today. The SEC is seeking a so-called
stop order to keep the firms and shareholders from selling stock
under the faulty statements, the agency said in a statement.  The SEC formed a  task force  last year to investigate China-
based firms trading in the U.S. amid concerns that some might be
doctoring financial statements to lure investors. The agency and
exchanges have halted trading in more than a dozen firms since
the probe began.  The auditor for Guangdong-based China Intelligent Lighting
and Electronics quit on March 24, citing accounting fraud
involving forged bank statements, according to a June 10 SEC
order made available today. The firm didn’t disclose the
auditor’s claims until April 12, according to SEC investigators.
In a separate order dated today, SEC lawyers said China Century
Dragon Media made misleading statements after the company’s
auditor resigned, citing an inability to verify bank records.  Michael Quinn, an attorney for China Intelligent Lighting
and Electronics at K&L Gates, said the company on June 10
“filed post-effective amendments seeking to withdraw the
registration statements that are at issue in the SEC’s
administrative proceeding, which would have the same effect as
what the SEC seeks to accomplish in this action.”  A phone call Thomas Wardell, China Century Dragon Media’s
lawyer at McKenna, Long & Aldridge LLP, wasn’t returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  