-- 
Sell Turkish Stocks on ‘Short-Lived’ Election Bounce, EFG Says

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-06-13T11:28:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/sell-turkish-stocks-on-short-lived-election-bounce-efg-says.html
The re-election of Turkish Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  yesterday was a “non-event” and
won’t stop an overall drop on the  Istanbul Stock Exchange , EFG
Istanbul Securities said in a report today.  Investors should view any post-election bounce as an
“opportunity to pare positions” as there is “no reason for a
divergence from the long-term downward trend,” the Istanbul-
based broker said.  The main  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  rose as much as 1 percent
in trading today after Erdogan’s ruling  Justice and Development
Party  won 50 percent of the vote in nationwide elections
yesterday. The index, which climbed 25 percent in 2010, dropped
3.1 percent since the start of this year, exceeding the 2.5
percent loss in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  “The short-term upbeat reaction” will continue for a
couple days, “judging from historic post-election patterns,”
EFG said.  The government’s biggest economic challenge at the
beginning of Erdogan’s third term will be tackling an expanding
current account deficit that is forecast to reach $42.9 billion
this year, or 5.4 percent of gross domestic product. The deficit
increased to $7.7 billion in April, the second-biggest monthly
gap since records began in 1984, the state statistics institute
in Ankara said today.  After the elections,  Turkey  likely will need to take
“further and more drastic measures” to curtail the deficit
that will create a “significant medium-term drag on the
operation of the financial sector in particular,” EFG said.  Bank Index  The index of large-capitalization Turkish banks has fallen
8 percent since the beginning of the year. Turkiye Garanti
Bankasi AS, the largest financial company on the exchange by
market value, has declined 5 percent. The shares rose as much as
1.62 percent to 7.52 liras today.  Reserve requirements have increased 10 percentage points
since December. Turkey will consider using the budget and
possibly sanctions on individual banks to ensure its goals are
met, Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan  said on June 10.  Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi AS (TSKB) , or TSKB, an investment
and development bank that does not collect deposits, will be
immune to the expected reserve hikes, “in contrast to other
banks, which will be hit by declining loan-deposit spreads,”
EFG said.  TSKB gives 35 percent of its loans to the energy sector and
is expected to benefit from funding the purchases of
distribution companies from the state asset sales agency,
according to the report.  A possible increase in the special  consumption tax  also
will have an adverse effect on the automotive and construction
industries while mining, aviation, telecoms and food-related
businesses remain “defensive sectors” and face less of a
negative impact, EFG said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  