-- 
Serena Williams Aiming for Wimbledon After ‘Life-Threatening’ Blood Clots

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-13T15:24:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/serena-williams-aiming-for-wimbledon-after-life-threatening-blood-clots.html
Four-time Wimbledon champion  Serena Williams  said the blood clot she sustained in February was
“life-threatening” and has made her reconsider her career.  “I was literally on my deathbed at one point,” Williams
said today in a news conference at the Aegon International
grass-court tournament in Eastbourne,  England .  Wimbledon , where
she is defending champion, starts next week.  Williams is making her comeback to the women’s tour at the
Wimbledon warm-up event on the south coast of England, after
almost a year out of tennis. Two foot operations last year and
treatment for the blood clot in her lung prevented the American
from playing since she collected her 13th Grand Slam singles
title at Wimbledon last year.  Williams was sent to a doctor in February by her
physiotherapist when she had difficulty breathing on her way to
a party.  At the hospital, doctors told her she had “several clots
bilaterally, so in both lungs,” Williams said.  “A lot of people die from that because you don’t recognize
it,” she said. “Me being an athlete, I couldn’t breathe. I
honestly just thought I was out of shape. So I thought I needed
to get on the treadmill or something. They just said it could
have gotten a lot more serious a day later or two days later. It
could have been really not good. It could have possibly been
career-ending, but for the grace of God I got there in time and
I was able to recover.”  Changed Perspective  The experience has changed her perspective on life and on
her tennis career, Williams said.  “I’m just taking everything one day at a time, and I’m not
putting too much expectations on myself or on my game,” she
said. “Most of all I’m just happy to be in competition. I’m
also hoping I can peak at Wimbledon. I can peak hopefully in the
second week, and hopefully I’ll get there.”  Formerly ranked No. 1 and now 25th on the WTA tour,
Williams will play Tsvetana Pironkova, a Bulgarian she beat in
the Wimbledon semifinals last year, in her opening round
tomorrow. The 29-year-old American may play  Vera Zvonareva  in
the next round. The Russian, the top seed in Eastbourne, lost to
Williams in last year’s Wimbledon final.  Venus Williams , Serena’s sister and a five-time Wimbledon
champion, is also making a comeback from injury in Eastbourne,
where she beat Andrea Petkovic 7-5, 5-7, 6-3 in her opening
round today. Venus, who is ranked 32nd, was forced to quit her
match against the German with a hip injury in the third round of
the Australian Open in January.  ‘Very Long Road’  The sisters, who have won nine of the last 11 singles
trophies at the All England Club, normally don’t play the week
before Wimbledon starts in London.  Before today, Venus last played in Eastbourne in 1998,
where she was beaten by Natasha Zvereva of Belarus in her
opening round. Serena’s last appearance at the seaside event
also came that year, when she was beaten in the quarterfinals by
 Spain ’s Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario.  “I’m very excited to be back,” Venus said in a pre-
tournament press conference. “I can’t believe I finally made it
back. It’s been a very long road.”  Playing at Eastbourne is important for both sisters to get
used to the grass again, Venus, 31, said.  “Serena hasn’t played in a year,” she said. “I’ve played
three or four tournaments in a 12-month period so for us it is
just crucial to be able to play these key matches at this
tournament. Normally we take this period after the French Open
to go home and rest and train -- that has been the best for us -
- but this year the best preparation has been to be here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Eastbourne through the  London  sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  