-- 
Sino-Forest Decline Sends China Stocks Trading in Canada to 15% June Loss

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-06-13T13:46:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/sino-forest-drags-down-chinese-stocks-in-canada.html
The 75 percent decline in Sino-
Forest Corp., the timber company targeted by short seller Carson Block, has dragged other Chinese companies trading in  Canada  to
the biggest monthly decline in almost three years.  An index of Canadian shares of China-focused companies,
excluding Sino-Forest, has fallen 15 percent this month, four
times more than the decline in the Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index. Companies as diverse as  Silvercorp Metals Inc. (SVM) ,
 Asia Bio-Chem Group Corp. (ABC)  and  GLG Life Tech Corp. (GLG) , an
artificial-sweetener maker, have plunged at least 19 percent
since Block said Sino-Forest manipulated financial data.  “People got very emotional and started to dump everything
related to China,” said Rui Feng, chairman and chief executive
officer of Silvercorp, which mines in Henan Province.  Sino-Forest, which produces forest products, has tumbled
since June 1, the day before Block’s Muddy Waters LLC said its
stated timber holdings don’t match Chinese city records. The
company has denied the assertions and published documents it
says back up its financial disclosures. Sino-Forest, based in
 Hong Kong  and Mississauga, Ontario, is scheduled to release
first-quarter results tomorrow.  The index of 50 other Chinese companies trading in Canada,
based on a list provided by TMX Group Inc., has plunged nine
times as much as the Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index
from June 1 through June 10. TMX, owner of the Toronto Stock
Exchange, defined Chinese companies as those with most of their
operations and management in China, according to Carolyn Quick,
a TMX spokeswoman. Most of the companies listed in Canada after
2005.  Sino-Forest shares rose 5.8 percent to C$4.76 at 9:42 a.m.
in Toronto. The China-focused index fell 1.4 percent.  Migao Drops  Fertilizer producer  Migao Corp. (MGO) , the biggest company in the
index by revenue, decreased 22 percent in the week after Block
released his report and has retreated another 20 percent since
reporting earnings that missed the average analyst estimate on
June 9. Migao has an office in Toronto. Vancouver-based
Silvercorp has plunged 20 percent from June 1 through June 10,
nearly twice as much as an index of S&P/TSX producers of
precious metals other than gold.  The Sino-Forest plunge has shaken the confidence of
investors who thought any company that trades on the TSX has
solid accounting standards, said Marcus Xu, a money manager at
Genus Capital Management in  Vancouver , which oversees C$1.7
billion ($1.74 billion).  “It freaked people out,” said Xu, who was born in Beijing
and regularly travels to China. “They got shell-shocked.”  ‘Bad Guys’  Carson’s criticism of Sino-Forest has given Western
investors a false impression that Chinese taxation and
accounting practices are always shady, Feng said.  “I think there are a lot of bad guys in China, but China’s
like 1.5 billion people,” he said by telephone from his
Vancouver office.  Arthur Salzer, a  money manager  at MacNicol & Associates
Asset Management Inc. in Toronto, said the sell-off in companies
that do business in China is rational, since the Muddy Waters
report reminded investors of the prevalence of fraud in the
country.  “I don’t believe the underwriters or the auditors truly
understand the companies they’re reviewing,” said Salzer, whose
firm manages about C$300 million, including shares of Chinese
issuers. “I wouldn’t sell all my companies, but before you buy
a company operating in China, due diligence above and beyond
what you would perform on a Western company is needed.”  Application Rejection  Last week, the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board rejected Hong Kong-based Zhonglei CPA Co.’s application to
register as an auditor in the U.S., saying Chinese authorities
make it too difficult to inspect audit work by accounting firms
there.  In March and April, more than 24 China-based companies
disclosed auditor resignations or accounting problems to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the commission’s
chairman,  Mary Schapiro , wrote to Congress on April 27.  Sino-Forest’s Impact  The impact of Sino-Forest on other China-centric stocks
will be short lived as investors realize companies like China
Gold International Resources Corp. are legitimate, said Frank Lagiglia, a Vancouver-based spokesman for the company, which
mines in China’s Inner Mongolia region.  “When the Sino-Forest thing hit, there’s going to be a bit
of an overhang, and that brings out the short sellers. They’re
going to take their shot at Chinese companies,” Lagiglia said.
“They’re going to get pinched.”  In short selling, traders sell borrowed stock in the hope
of buying it back at a lower price. The percentage of  China  Gold
shares sold short as surged to 3.7 percent on June 8 from 0.8
percent on June 1, according to  Data Explorers , a New York-based
research firm.  Xu said he hasn’t sold any shares of Chinese companies this
month and other investors shouldn’t either. The long-term
positives of investing in the world’s fastest-growing major
economy outweigh the short-term hurdles, he said.  “You have to look at things on a case-by-case basis. You
shouldn’t Whac-a-Mole,” he said. “If you believe in the China
story, you can’t panic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  