-- 
Sino-Forest’s Investors Will Question Executives After Stock Plunges 73%

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-06-13T20:54:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/sino-forest-s-investors-will-question-executives-after-stock-plunges-74-.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  investors and
analysts will get their first chance today to publicly quiz the
timber company’s management since a report by short seller
Carson Block’s Muddy Waters LLC sent the stock tumbling 73
percent.  Muddy Waters said in the  report  published June 2 that Sino-
Forest is a “fraud” and the amount of land the company said it
bought from Lincang City in  China ’s Yunnan province doesn’t
match city records. Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based
Sino-Forest, which has denied the allegations, posts its first-
quarter earnings before 7 a.m. New York time and will hold a
conference call at 8:30 a.m.  “If they can clear up the Yunnan situation, that would go
a long way to allowing people to believe the charges are
false,” said Brian Topp, an analyst at Maison Placements  Canada 
Inc. in Toronto who has a “hold” recommendation on Sino-
Forest. “There’s been enormous damage done to this company
through these allegations.”  Sino-Forest’s first-quarter net income rose 17 percent to
21 cents a share from 18 cents a year earlier, according to the
average of six analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Stan Neve, a New York-based external spokesman for Sino-
Forest, said company executives weren’t available for comment.  Sino-Forest said on June 8 it asked the Toronto Stock
Exchange and the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of
Canada to probe trading in its stock. The Ontario Securities
Commission said the same day it was studying “matters related”
to the company. Moody’s Investors Service put Sino-Forest’s Ba2
corporate family and senior-unsecured ratings on review June 7.  Worst Performer  Sino-Forest rose 48 cents, or 11 percent, to C$4.98 as of 4
p.m. in Toronto trading. It has the worst performance on the
S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange Composite Index this year.  RBC Capital Markets  is the only bank of seven tracked by
Bloomberg that has an “outperform” rating on Sino-Forest’s
shares. Prior to the publication of the Muddy Waters report, all
seven analysts recommended buying the stock.  Sino-Forest has more extensive timber holdings than claimed
in the Muddy Waters report and may not have been subject to
harvest limits alluded to in the document, Paul Quinn and Hamir Patel, Vancouver-based analysts at RBC, said in a June 10
report.  Richard Kelertas, an analyst at Dundee Securities in
 Montreal  who placed his rating on Sino-Forest under review
following the Muddy Waters report, is also a defender of the
company. The Muddy Waters report was inaccurate and there’s
nothing fraudulent about Sino-Forest “to the best of our
knowledge,” Kelertas said to investors and reporters on a June
7 conference call he hosted.  ‘Adequate liquidity’  Block, 35, said in a June 6 Bloomberg Television interview
he will keep betting against Sino-Forest until its shares reach
“zero.” He stands to make money from declines in its stock.  The company said in a June 6 statement that the  Muddy
Waters  report was inaccurate and that the forestry company had
cash and cash equivalents of $1.09 billion as of March 31. Sino-
Forest has appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers to assist with its
investigations into the report.  Sino-Forest has “adequate liquidity” based on an analysis
of its audited financial statements, Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services said June 9. Sino-Forest’s long-term debt is rated BB,
or two levels below investment grade, by S&P.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ; Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
   Selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  