-- 
Small Banks, Big Banks, Giant Differences: Robert G. Wilmers

-- B y   R o b e r t   G .   W i l m e r s
-- 
2011-06-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/small-banks-big-banks-giant-differences-robert-g-wilmers.html
There are reasons for bankers like
me to view these as good times. Bank profits are up and failures
have ebbed. Nonetheless, I remain troubled about the state of
the financial-services industry.  Here’s why: community banks have given way to big banks and
excessive industry concentration; profits are increasingly
driven by risky trading; leverage is taking precedence over
prudent lending; compensation is out of control. This toxic
combination leads to continued taxpayer risk and threatens long-
term U.S. prosperity.  To understand the change, first consider history. Banking
once was a  community-based  enterprise, relying on local
knowledge to guide the process of gathering customer deposits
and extending credit. Done well, this arrangement ensures that
deposits are deployed into a diversified pool of investments,
while providing depositors with liquidity and a return on their
savings.  Over the past generation, however, the financial services
industry changed dramatically. In 1990, the six largest
financial institutions accounted for 9 percent of all U.S.
domestic deposits. As of Dec. 31, 2010, the six biggest banks
accounted for 36 percent of deposits.  Such concentration raises the concern that poor decisions
at such outsized institutions can lead to systemic risk. But
this risk is greatly magnified by the new way in which the major
banks, those deemed too big to fail, are doing business today.
The largest and most profitable bank holding companies have
moved away from traditional lending and come to rely on
speculative trading in all types of securities, derivatives,
credit default swaps, mortgage-backed securities and other, even
more complex and exotic financial instruments -- many of them
associated with high leverage.  Engine of Income  Such trading now is the engine of income. In 2010, the six
largest bank holding companies generated $56.1 billion in
 trading revenue , or 74 percent of their $75.7 billion in pretax
income.  Trading revenue at these institutions distinguishes them
from traditional commercial banks, which aren’t typically
involved in such speculative endeavors. The Big Six institutions
earned more than 93 percent of the trading revenue generated by
all American banks during the past two years. To say these large
institutions are the same species as traditional commercial
banks is akin to describing dinosaurs as reptiles -- true but
profoundly misleading.  To concentration and speculation one can add another
dangerous element: outsized, bonus-based executive pay. This
supersized compensation, like the trading itself, is something
new under the sun for bankers -- and poses serious problems for
the U.S. labor market and our most talented citizens.  Then Versus Now  Consider that in 1929 compensation for employees in the
financial-services industry was just 1.5 times that of the
average nonfarm U.S. worker. By 2009 employees in the securities
and investments sector, which includes investment banks,
securities brokerages and commodities dealers, earned 3.4 times
as much as an average U.S. worker. The average 2009 investment
banking compensation at four of the top banks was at least six
times that of an average American worker -- while employees in
the traditional commercial bank sector earned just 1.2 times the
average nonfarm employee.  The chief executive officers at the top six bank holding
companies were  paid  an average of $26 million in 2007, or 516
times the U.S. median household income. Indeed, those bank CEOs
are paid 2.3 times the average total CEO compensation of the top
Fortune 50 nonbank companies. This raises important questions:
Should the CEOs of big financial services firms earn more than
those in the general economy they are supposed to serve?
Shouldn’t managers of companies that put capital to good use,
and thus provide greater value for the overall economy by
producing goods and services, be paid more than the bankers
assisting them?  At Taxpayer Expense  All Americans have reason to be concerned about this
disparity. The major Wall Street banks operate under the
taxpayer-backed umbrella of the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. 
and, as we saw in 2008, the Treasury Department and the  Federal
Reserve . To pay for the cost of such protection, legislators and
regulators have forced thousands of Main Street banks like the
one I run to absorb a larger, more expensive set of regulatory
costs, including higher capital and liquidity requirements. This
threatens to deny small-business owners, entrepreneurs and
innovators the credit they need and on which the economy relies.  Such, I fear, are the bitter fruits of a financial services
industry unmoored from its traditional role in the commercial
economy and a regulatory regime that protects outsized
compensation tied to trading. Regulators have failed to
distinguish between trading activity and traditional banking, or
to recognize that the activity of an institution, not its form,
should be the proper focus of oversight.  New Rules Needed  Main Street banks are heavily regulated -- and have been
for generations -- to ensure their safety, soundness and
transparency. A new generation of regulation must now be applied
to what has become a virtual casino. All the players must be
included -- Wall Street banks, investment banks and  hedge funds .
Complex derivatives and credit default swaps must be brought out
of the shadows and into public clearinghouses, so that markets
can know their magnitude and extent.  Those financial institutions that engage in trading should
live and die by the pursuit of their fortunes, rather than
impose a burden on the whole economy.  It’s time to disentangle the trading of big financial
institutions from their more traditional commercial banking
operations and put an end to this unsafe business model.  (Robert G. Wilmers is chairman and chief executive officer
of  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  The opinions expressed are his own.)  For more  Bloomberg View op-ed .  To contact the author of this op-ed:
Robert G. Wilmers at  mzabel@mtb.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this op-ed:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 