-- 
Smashed Cars, Blue Chinese Mud, Poor Art Fill London Galleries

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-06-13T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/smashed-cars-blue-chinese-mud-poor-art-fill-london-galleries.html
One of the most distinctive media of
late-20th- and early-21st-century art was the wrecked car.  A number of artists made works out of squashed vehicles, or
components from them. The true master of the mangled automobile
in my opinion is the veteran U.S. sculptor John Chamberlain.  A cool, museum-quality display of his work is on show at
the  Gagosian Gallery , 6-24 Britannia St.,  London  (through June
18, with another exhibition concurrently in  New York ). The
Futurists claimed a speeding car was as beautiful as a Greek
statue. Somehow, Chamberlain manages to put together bits of
crumpled bodywork so they have the presence and excitement of
ancient sculpture. He gives a new meaning to the phrase
“classic car.”  There are less beautiful road accidents, by the German
artist Dirk Skreber, in “The Shape of Things to Come: New
Sculpture” at the  Saatchi Gallery  (until Oct. 16). Skreber
wraps his passenger saloons around metal poles, making you think
more of fatal injuries than the Victory of Samothrace.  His work is one of the newer elements in a show that, for
 Charles Saatchi , is relatively full of familiar names. Among
them are Rebecca Warren and Roger Hiorns, both of whom featured
on  Turner Prize  shortlists in recent years, and another senior
American, John Baldessari. Consequently, by Saatchi standards,
this exhibition is low on sensations.  Cow Brains  True, there is a sculpted (or maybe cast) orgy in “The
Healers” by the Canadian artist David Altmejd, and Hiorns uses
cow brains as a material (though you wouldn’t really guess that
from looking at the work in question).  As usual with Saatchi’s choices, this selection is full of
work that is the opposite of reticent or subtle. He wants his
art to be in your face, and has proved a good talent scout over
the years. While some of his chosen sculptors will quickly be
forgotten, a few -- Warren, for example, with her manic female
figures, halfway between Rodin and Bugs Bunny -- are likely to
last.  Two contemporary sculptural classics turn up at  Haunch of
Venison , 6 Burlington Gardens, London (until Aug. 20). Richard Long and Giuseppe Penone have a lot in common: a shared
generation and a similar approach to art and life.  Long (born 1945) is a familiar figure to U.K. art
audiences, and this new work contains no radical departures. He
is constantly transforming and extending what he does, however,
and there are fresh elements, including a bright blue Chinese
mud used in one of the dynamic abstract paintings he makes on
the wall.  Magical Timber  Penone (born 1947) is one of the youngest, and best, of the
Italian movement known as Arte Povera. As the name -- literally
“poor art” -- suggests, these artists make their work out of
everyday stuff. Penone was born near the Garessio forest in
Piedmont and much of his work has to do with trees. One piece in
the show consists of commercial timber which the artist has
peeled back to reveal the stem and branches of a sapling within.
It’s a seemingly magical transformation of an ordinary object.  The most striking of Penone’s pieces are black paintings or
rather huge drawings on canvas. They are made by projecting
enlarged photographs of the artist’s skin, then drawing over
those patterns with graphite. The result looks like tree bark or
desert landscapes seen from the air. They’re terrific, and not
like anything you’ve seen before.  Information:  http://www.saatchi-gallery.co.uk 
 http://www.gagosian.com   http://www.haunchofvenison.com/   (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/# !/martingayford.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 