-- 
South African Coal Prices Climb to Highest in a Month on One-Off Purchase

-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 
2011-06-13T11:08:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/south-african-coal-rises-to-highest-in-a-month-on-one-off-deal.html
Coal export prices at South Africa’s
 Richards Bay  terminal rose to the highest in almost a month as a
single purchase pushed the average higher.  Prices at Richards Bay, the continent’s largest facility
for shipping coal, rose 1.6 percent to $120.37 a metric ton in
the week to June 10, according to data from Petersfield,
England-based research IHS McCloskey. That’s the highest since
the week ended May 13 and a 29 percent increase over the past 12
months.  “Prices did see a surprise spike on June 9, but this was
more of a one-off deal” than sustained volume, Miswin Mahesh,
an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  London , said by e-mail without
naming the buyer. “We continue to see lackluster demand for
South African coal as Asian buyers remain price sensitive and
there is adequate supply for  Europe  from the U.S. and
Colombia.”  Richards Bay coal exports may fall or stay at current
levels as  India  enters monsoon season and European demand
“shows little sign of life,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity
research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said in a
note today. Rains in India from June to September disrupt
infrastructure and deliveries from ports.  China, the world’s biggest coal consumer, will meet its
increased demand for the fuel by buying more Australian coal,
Pervan said. The Asian country may have a 30- to 40-gigawatt
power shortfall during peak summer demand, exacerbated by a
drought in central part the country, he said. Lower reservoirs
curb the amount of power that can be generated by water. A
gigawatt can supply 1 million U.S. households on average.  China  boosted coal imports 64 percent in the two months
through April. The price of coal at the country’s Qinhuangdao
port has jumped 29 percent in the past 12 months to $150.22 a
ton, according to data from McCloskey.  Power-station coal  prices  at Australia’s Newcastle port, an
Asian benchmark, were little changed in the week ended June 10.
Coal prices at the New South Wales port were $119.35 a ton
compared with $119.34 the previous week, according to the
globalCOAL NEWC Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alistair Holloway in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  