-- 
Stevie Wonder Honored at Apollo Gala Helping Raise $1.2 Million

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-06-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/stevie-wonder-to-be-honored-at-apollo-gala-helping-raise-1-2-million.html
Jonelle Procope, president of
the  Apollo Theater Foundation Inc. , remembers getting
hooked as a teenager on  Stevie Wonder  classics like
“Living for the City” and “Superstition.”  “Then there’s songs like ‘Fingertips’ that he
performed on the Apollo stage when he broke onto the
scene,” said Procope, also the venue’s chief executive
officer, in a telephone interview. “You can now hear
vendors on 125th Street playing Stevie Wonder’s music, and
you often hear ‘Fingertips.’”  Procope has the enviable job of throwing the ultimate
Stevie Wonder party. The foundation’s spring gala tonight
at the Apollo will honor the singer-songwriter’s five-
decade career.  The 61-year-old blind artist will join  Quincy Jones ,
 Michael Jackson ,  James Brown  and  Aretha Franklin  as an
inductee into the Apollo Legends Hall of Fame.  The evening, hosted by comedian Sinbad, will include a
concert and an after-party. It will feature performances by
Wonder and guest appearances by Haiti-born songwriter
Wyclef Jean; rhythm-and-blues vocalists  Melanie Fiona  and
 Raphael Saadiq ; and Grammy Award-winning jazz piano legend
Chick Corea. About a dozen surprise guests will perform
Wonder hits.  “I have to pinch myself,” Procope said. “I can’t
tell you how excited we are to have Stevie here. We’ve all
grown up on his music.”  Revlon Award  The gala, which she said will raise more than $1.2
million, will also honor cosmetics giant Revlon with its
Corporate Award for its support of women’s issues and its
fundraising for breast-cancer research. Ronald O. Perelman,
the Apollo’s board chairman and chief executive of  Revlon
Inc. (REV)  parent Rev Holdings LLC, will accept the award.  Philanthropist and Booz Allen Hamilton executive vice
president Reginald Van Lee will be honored with the Percy
E. Sutton Civic Leadership Award for his support of the
Apollo. In addition, Procope will announce the
establishment of the Reginald Van Lee New Works Fund for
concerts and other new programming thanks to what she calls
a “significant gift” from a donor she declined to
identify by name.  “When I became the president of the Apollo eight
years ago, one of my first calls was to Reggie, who helped
the leadership team think about how you shape the Apollo,”
Procope said. “Our accomplishments of the last five years
are a result of Reggie sitting with us.”  (The Apollo’s 2011 Spring Gala is at 7 tonight at the
Apollo Theater, 253 W. 125th St. in  Manhattan . Tickets are
$250 for the show only or $500 and $1,250 with after-party
access. Information: +1-212-380-8946
 http://www.apollotheater.org/all/details/98-2011-spring -
gala)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 