-- 
Strongbox Sales Soar in Japan as Demand for Cash Risks Stunting Recovery

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-06-14T05:28:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/strongbox-sales-soar-in-japan-as-demand-for-cash-risks-stunting-recovery.html
Japanese safe maker Eiko Co. says
sales jumped more than 40 percent after the March earthquake and
tsunami, a sign that consumers will hoard more cash at home and
restrain an economic rebound.  “The television footage of the tsunami destroying
everything in its path must have served as a warning for cash-
rich people,” said Tsutomu Ishii, head of sales for the Tokyo-
based company. “They have cash at home and they don’t want to
leave it without any protection anymore.”  The March 11 disaster that left more than 23,000 people
dead or missing may discourage spending as households stick to
“tansu yokin,” the centuries-old Japanese practice of keeping
mattress money. While output is bouncing back, weak demand may
slow an economic recovery as officials struggle to boost
 consumer spending  after decades of deflation.  “It’s absolutely essential for  Japan  to get people to
spend,” said  Robert Feldman , head of Japan economic research at
Morgan Stanley in  Tokyo . “Weakness in consumer spending is one
of the reasons for the economy contracting -- it’s crucial for
the government and the Bank of Japan to work together properly
to end deflation.”  Consumer spending slid 0.6 percent in the three months
through March as Japan entered a recession according to the
textbook definition, two straight quarters of contraction. The
Bank of Japan limited extra measures to spur growth to a 500
billion yen ($6 billion) lending program today as it raised its
assessment of the economy, citing signs of a pick-up.  Nuclear Crisis  The  International Monetary Fund  last week urged the central
bank to boost asset purchases to “guard against deflation risks
and support the recovery.”  An unresolved crisis at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant is weighing on sentiment.
Sentry Japan Ltd., a unit of Rochester, New York-based Sentry
Group, says its sales of portable water- and fire- proof models,
costing about $100, have increased more than five times since
the disaster.  In the devastated northeastern Tohoku region, safes
recovered since the data have indicated the scale of tansu yokin.
In Ishinomaki, a stricken city, about 700 are stored at a police
station, officer Yoshiaki Fukushima said. Officials there have
reports of another 750 missing, claimed to contain an average of
about one million yen each.  “I was stunned by the amount of cash I was seeing,” said
Fukushima, who found as much as 70 million yen ($870,000) in one
of the boxes. In another case, he couldn’t get the bills out
because they were swollen with water.  Police Tally  At least 500 are at a police station in Kesennuma city, and
one contained as much as 40 million yen in cash, said Hiroki
Sato, a local police commissioner.  Japanese households  had 55 percent of their 1,489 trillion
yen of financial assets in cash or deposits at the end of last
year, about four times the proportion in the U.S., according to
the  Bank of Japan .  In 2008, the central bank estimated tansu yokin at about 30
trillion yen and  Hideo Kumano , chief economist at the Dai-Ichi
Life Research Institute in Tokyo, said the amount may now be in
a range from 20 trillion yen to 45 trillion yen.  “The country is in deflation so even if you leave money
under the mattress, you are still earning,” said Morgan
Stanley’s Feldman. “It’s a relatively attractive asset. You
have to protect it but it’s not too hard.”  Average monthly household spending dropped 8.5 percent in
the past decade in nominal terms, according to the statistics
bureau.  Avoiding Stocks  Poor returns on stocks -- the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  is down more than
30 percent in the past five years -- discourage investing, while
low  interest rates  limit the lure of bank saving accounts. At
the Bank of Japan, Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s policy board has
kept the benchmark between zero and 0.1 percent since October.  The economy is showing signs of recovering, with industrial
output expanding in April after a record plunge in March and
Shirakawa saying that repairs to supply chains have been swifter
than expected. Sekisui House Ltd., the nation’s second-largest
home builder, said last month that reconstruction work may spur
the nation’s biggest housing boom in at least 15 years.  Still, Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s efforts to drive a
rebound are hampered by the largest debt burden of any nation.
Moody’s Investors Service may downgrade its Aa2 rating for the
nation because of faltering growth prospects and “a weak policy
response,” the company said May 31.  The government is discussing raising taxes to fund
earthquake reconstruction and social security, a prospect that
may encourage consumers to set more money aside.  “Households aren’t ready to help the economy by
spending,” said Hiroshi Miyazaki, chief economist at Shinkin
Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  