-- 
Sudan’s North, South Agree in Principle on Ethiopian Peacekeepers in Abyei

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-06-13T16:41:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/sudan-s-north-south-agree-in-principle-on-ethiopian-peacekeepers-in-abyei.html
Northern and  Southern Sudan  pledged
to pull their military forces out of the disputed border region
of  Abyei  and to accept in principle the deployment of Ethiopian
troops in the region, an African Union spokesman said.  Details of the deployment are still being worked out,
Barney Afako, the spokesman for the African Union’s high-level
implementation panel on Sudan, told reporters in  Addis Ababa ,
the Ethiopian capital. The two sides agreed to withdraw military
forces from the region by July 9, when Southern Sudan is
scheduled to become independent.  “We have confidence Ethiopian forces will be able to
deploy quickly,” he said. The Ethiopians would help to ensure
that “civilians can return and administration can be restored in
Abyei.”  Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir and the leader of
Southern Sudan,  Salva Kiir , participated in the talks that
included former South African President  Thabo Mbeki , the head of
the African Union Panel, and Ethiopian President  Meles Zenawi .  Sudan’s army seized the main town in  Abyei  on May 21 after
accusing Southern Sudan’s security forces of attacking its
troops. Sudanese planes bombed a village in Southern Sudan’s
Unity state for the second time in a week today, said a local
commissioner. Fighting has also spread to the Southern Kordofan
state, raising concern that the violence could reignite the two-
decade civil war in sub-Saharan  Africa ’s third-biggest oil
producer that ended in 2005.  U.S. Welcome  The U.S. would welcome Ethiopian peacekeepers in Abyei,
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said earlier today,
describing the situation in the area as “deeply troubling.”  Details of the funding and mandate of the Ethiopian
peacekeepers need to be worked out in negotiations that are
continuing, Afako said.  Abyei is contested between the region’s Ngok Dinka people,
who are settled in the area and consider themselves southerners,
and Misseriya nomads who herd their cattle south in the dry
season and are supported by the government in Khartoum.  A referendum in Abyei scheduled for January on whether to
join the south or remain a special administrative region in the
north was canceled because of disagreements over who was
eligible to vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 