-- 
Sumitomo Mitsui to Boost Nikko Staff 11% Seeking Nomura Clients, CEO Says

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 
2011-06-14T01:47:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/sumitomo-mitsui-to-boost-nikko-staff-11-seeking-nomura-clients.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) ,
Japan’s second-biggest lender by market value, will boost its
brokerage staff by 11 percent as it aims to win customers from
 Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , the country’s top investment bank.  SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. will increase its workforce by
800 employees within three years, including at least 200 mid-
career workers and the transfer of 150 staff from  Sumitomo
Mitsui  Banking Corp., Chief Executive Officer Koichi Miyata said
in an interview on May 27.  Miyata, 57, is diversifying Sumitomo Mitsui’s businesses
away from dependence on banking amid 18 straight months of
domestic loan declines. The Tokyo-based lender’s brokerage
business plans to “catch up” with Nomura, which held 40
percent of Japan’s 5 trillion ($62 billion) equity underwriting
market last year, within the next decade, he said.  “Underwriting share sales, together with financial support
for Japanese companies launching overseas business, is one of
our main focuses,” Miyata said. “It’d take 10 years for us to
expand our global network like Nomura’s.”  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Japan’s third biggest bank by
market value, and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  were Nomura’s closest
competitors in Japan equity underwriting last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Growth Pillar  Sumitomo Mitsui, ranked 10th, won a 2.1 percent share of
the market. SMBC Nikko employed 6,975 workers as of March 31,
according to its website. The unit plans to recruit 430
graduates in the year starting next April, compared with 493
this year. Sumitomo Mitsui bought Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.,
the predecessor of SMBC Nikko, from Citigroup Inc. in 2009.  “Expanding SMBC Nikko’s business will make it a pillar of
future growth,” said Yoshinobu Yamada, a Tokyo-based analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG, noting that the unit currently contributes
about 5 percent of Sumitomo Mitsui’s net income. “The key is
that megabanks should understand risks in the brokerage business
are different from those in banking.”  Sumitomo Mitsui rose 0.5 percent to 2,306 yen at 10:45 a.m.
on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The shares have declined 20 percent
this year, compared with a 17 percent drop in the 83-member
 Topix Banks Index. (TPNBNK)   To lure business from bigger investment banks, Sumitomo
Mitsui plans to leverage relationships with existing corporate
borrowers, Miyata said. The group introduced 4,500 of its
business customers to the brokerage unit last year, he said.  MUFG’s Venture  Using a similar strategy,  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest publicly traded bank, is also targeting
 investment banking  for growth. Its joint venture with  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  ranked 12th in Japanese equity underwriting last year,
according to Bloomberg data.  Mitsubishi UFJ clinched a deal in April to increase its
stake in the New York-based bank to help make up for declining
loan demand at home, which fell 0.8 percent from a year earlier
to 393 trillion yen in May.  Sumitomo Mitsui Banking is targeting profit of 150 billion
yen from Asia excluding Japan in the next three years, Takeshi Kunibe, chief executive officer of the unit, said in a separate
interview on May 27. That would be an increase of about 50
percent, he said.  “India, Malaysia and Indonesia are the countries where we
can further expand our bases,” said Kunibe, 57. “In China, we
have 15 offices now, and several more candidate cities there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in  Tokyo  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Russell Ward  at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net . 