-- 
Sumitomo Mitsui Says It Won’t Sell Tepco Stake or Forgive Loans

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 
2011-06-13T15:15:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/sumitomo-mitsui-says-it-won-t-sell-tepco-stake-or-forgive-loans.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) ,
one of Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s biggest shareholders and
lenders, said it has no plans to sell its 2.2 percent stake in
the nuclear plant operator or forgive its loans or interest.  “We are not going to sell Tepco shares until things around
it stabilize,” Takeshi Kunibe, chief executive officer of
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., the banking unit of Japan’s
second-biggest lender by market value, said in an interview on
May 27. “We won’t go ahead with a selloff which could add
downward pressure on Tepco’s share price.”  Sumitomo Mitsui’s securities holdings lost 92 billion yen
($1.1 billion) in the quarter ended March, mostly from an 83.5
billion yen decline in the value of its stake in  Tokyo  Electric,
Kunibe said. The utility’s stock has plunged 91 percent, erasing
3.1 trillion yen in market value, since a March 11 earthquake
and tsunami triggered the worst nuclear crisis in 25 years.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano last month suggested
lenders waive loans made to Tepco, as the company is known,
before the disaster.  Standard & Poor’s  cut the utility’s credit
ratings to junk status on May 30, citing an increasing
likelihood that banks may restructure some of its debts.  “We leave forgiveness of Tepco’s loans or interest out of
consideration, as the government’s May 13 compensation scheme
doesn’t envisage such waivers,” Kunibe, 57, said in the
interview.  Kan’s Tepco Plan  Under the plan crafted by Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s
government, a third-party organization will be formed to pay
compensation to victims of the nuclear accident. The government
may give public funds to the entity, while Tepco should call on
its stakeholders, particularly financial institutions, for
cooperation.  After the quake, a group of Japanese lenders including
Sumitomo Mitsui and rivals  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) 
and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  provided about 2 trillion yen in
loans to Tepco. The rival banks also hold shares of the utility.  Noting that Tepco supplies power to an area covering 40
percent of Japan’s gross domestic product, Kunibe said the loans
“were aimed at supporting the important energy provider and
Japan’s economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Russell Ward  at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net . 