-- 
Krona Gains on Franc for Traders Seeking German Growth Without Greek Debt

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k ,   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-06-13T19:15:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/swedish-krona-rises-on-swiss-franc.html
Sweden ’s krona is joining the Swiss
franc as a favored currency for traders seeking to profit from
Germany’s economic expansion while avoiding the debt crisis
roiling Europe.  The krona may climb to its highest level in more than 10
years against the euro as the fastest growth in Europe spurs the
Riksbank to keep raising  interest rates , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It’s a cheaper way to participate in
German growth than the traditional haven, the Swiss franc, which
is the most overvalued currency against the euro and the dollar
as measured by the relative cost of goods and services.  Sweden’s economy grew an annual 6.4 percent in the first
quarter after 5.7 percent last year, the most in the region.
Higher rates than in the euro area haven’t hurt exports fueled
by  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and Ericsson AB. The krona is only “starting to
approach” a “reasonable” level, central bank Deputy Governor
Lars Nyberg said in an interview in Stockholm last week.  “The Swedish economy is in good shape,” said  Paul Robson ,
a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in London. “If there is a deterioration in European
financial stability then it’s realistic to believe that Sweden
will do relatively better than  Switzerland . Sweden is just as
strong a safe-haven as Switzerland.”  RBS told its clients on May 6 to sell the franc against the
krona.  Krona Gains  Sweden’s currency may climb 3.6 percent against the dollar
and about 4.4 percent versus the euro this year, while the franc
will probably weaken 9.4 percent by Dec. 31 compared with the
greenback and slide 6.9 percent against the European common
currency, according to median forecasts in surveys of analysts
by Bloomberg.  Investors are betting the pace of the krona’s appreciation
against the euro may start to gain on that of the franc, which
has climbed more than 15.3 percent versus the common currency
over the past year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
krona, which rose 5.1 percent, was the second-best performing
major currency versus the euro, the data show.  The Swedish currency fell 3.1 percent to 6.3273 per dollar
last week, retreating further from its near three-year high of
5.9789 per dollar on May 2. It was down 1.2 percent versus the
euro at 9.0800. The franc declined 1.1 percent to 84.30 centimes
per dollar and climbed 0.9 percent to 1.20978 against the euro.
The krona was at 6.3246 per dollar as of 3:11 p.m. in  New York ,
while the franc traded at 83.77 centimes against the greenback.  Yield Differences  Relative bond yields are luring investors to the krona.
Sweden’s two-year government notes yield 2.41 percent and the
gap between the securities and similar-maturity Swiss debt
widened to 2.10 percentage points last week, from 1.39
percentage points at the start of the year. The Swedish
securities yield 0.89 percentage point more than those in
Germany, down from 1 percentage point in January.  The Swedish currency and the franc have benefited as
 Europe ’s leaders led by German Chancellor Angela Merkel struggle
to hammer out a second Greek aid package by the end of June.  Last year’s 110 billion-euro ($158 billion) rescue failed
to prevent an investor exodus from  Greece , which will have debt
at 157.7 percent of gross domestic product this year, the
highest level in the euro’s history, according to the European
Commission on May 13. Ireland and Portugal also sought aid as
record deficits sent borrowing costs soaring. Sweden is a
European Union member that doesn’t participate in the euro.  “If you are buying the Swedish krona you are getting
European growth without Greek politics,” said Nick Parsons,
head of markets strategy in  London  at National Australia Bank
Ltd. “You can make a solid case for the strength of the krona
persisting and for it continuing to be one of the two strongest
currencies in the world.”  Purchasing Power Parity  The Swiss franc is the most expensive currency based on the
relative costs of goods and services as measured by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. It’s 36
percent overvalued versus the euro, almost twice that of the
krona, according to purchasing power parity, which measures
long-term  exchange rates  by determining ratios of prices for
tradable goods and services between countries.  Sweden has the ninth most-actively traded currency,
accounting for 2.2 percent of the $4 trillion average daily
turnover in foreign exchange last year, according to the Bank
for International Settlements in  Basel , Switzerland. The franc’s
6.4 percent share makes it the sixth  most-traded  currency.  The krona isn’t immune to Europe’s troubles. The currency
is sensitive to changes in world growth and may underperform if
the global economy slows, according to Claire Dissaux, the
London-based managing director of global economics and strategy
at Millennium Global Investments, which manages about $12
billion.  ‘Cyclical Currency’  A slowing global economy “wouldn’t make me bullish on the
Swedish currency versus the euro,” Dissaux said in an
interview. “It’s very much a cyclical currency” that may fall
on poor news from the U.S. and elsewhere in Europe, she said.  Rising unemployment and falling home prices in the U.S.,
Europe’s debt crisis,  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake and tsunami,
and signs of a slowdown in  China  have fueled concern that the
expansion will falter.  The krona fell 1.1 percent against nine major currency
peers in the month after Portugal’s financial rescue on April 6,
while the franc jumped 4 percent, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes show. In the year that followed Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s collapse in September 2008, Sweden’s currency dropped 4.5
percent, while the franc advanced 7.2 percent, the indexes show.  The krona’s performance in the face of Europe’s fiscal
troubles has won over  Societe Generale  SA, which predicts it may
strengthen to 8.70 per euro by year-end.  ‘Personal Favorite’  “It’s our personal long-term favorite” in the region,
said  Sebastien Galy , a senior currency strategist at Societe
Generale in London. “You have a good German story but you can’t
buy  Germany  because you have to buy the euro. If you think
Germany is just going through a mild slowdown, then you will
hold on to your krona positions.”  Germany, which bought 10 percent of Sweden’s exports in the
first quarter, may expand 3.3 percent this year, according to
the median of 24 analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.
Sweden’s economy will probably grow 4.5 percent, a separate
survey shows. Swedish growth is prompting speculation that the
central bank will raise rates to cap inflation.  The Riksbank has increased the key rate six times since
July to 1.75 percent, and has signaled it will reach 2.5 percent
by the end of the year as the labor market tightens and
inflation exceeds the central bank’s 2 percent target. The bank
has also sought to cool the housing market, where prices rose
even as the economy contracted in 2009.  ‘More Reasonably Valued’  “We’ve said for at least 10 years that the krona has been
undervalued and ought to strengthen a bit,” the Riksbank’s
Nyberg said in the June 7 interview. “It’s now starting to
approach a level that’s more reasonably valued than it has been
during the last 10 years.”  A stronger currency makes imports of oil and other goods
cheaper, curbing inflation. So far, it hasn’t hurt exporter
profits.  Volvo’s “mature markets are recovering,” Chief Executive
Officer Leif Johansson said on April 27 in a statement detailing
first quarter earnings. The Gothenburg, Sweden-based company
also raised its industry forecast for heavy truck sales in  North
America  and Europe.  Record Profit  SKF AB (SKFB) , also based in Gothenburg, said on April 19 that
first-quarter profit rose to a record as the world’s largest
maker of ball bearings reported sales to industries in all
regions grew. Stockholm-based Ericsson, the biggest maker of
mobile-phone networks, said April 27 that first-quarter profit
more than tripled on demand for wireless broadband equipment.  While the Riksbank is tolerant of the krona’s gains, the
 Swiss National Bank  has attempted to weaken the franc.  The franc in real terms, which adjusts for relative
inflation levels, is near a record high against a trade-weighted
basket of currencies and versus the euro, according to
calculations by RBS  SNB Governing Board member Jean-Pierre Danthine said on May
20 in  St. Gallen , Switzerland, that the currency situation is
“very challenging,” calling the franc “very strong.”  The euro will depreciate to less than its 2011 low of 8.7
versus the krona within six months, according to  Alan Ruskin ,
the New York-based global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange
strategy at Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s largest currency
trader, according to Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc.  “You have both a favorable rates and a valuation story on
the krona,” Ruskin said. “It’s the right trade to lean
toward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh News at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  