-- 
Symbion Power Seeks to Expand Capacity in Tanzania, Chief Executive Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-06-13T09:09:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/symbion-power-seeks-to-expand-capacity-in-tanzania-chief-executive-says.html
Symbion Power LLC, owner of a 120-
megawatt power plant in  Tanzania , is interested in expanding
capacity in the East African nation and may make further
acquisitions there, Chief Executive Officer Paul Hinks said.  The company, based in Washington D.C., is in talks with the
Tanzania Electric Supply Co. about boosting output and any
increase “will depend on Tanesco wanting us to produce more,”
Hicks told reporters yesterday in  Dar es Salaam , the commercial
capital. “We also hope to make some more acquisitions, but there
is nothing in the pipeline.”  Symbion purchased the gas-fired Dowans Power plant in
Tanzania last month. The acquisition is one of the measures that
the Tanzanian government expects to help close a 260-megawatt
power deficit in East Africa’s second-biggest economy, Energy
and Mineral Minister William Ngeleja told reporters in Dar es
Salaam yesterday.  Last week, the Planning Commission in the Tanzanian
presidency published a five-year development plan that proposes
spending 4.7 trillion shillings ($2.96 billion) to increase
electricity output to 2,780 megawatts by 2015 from 1,000
megawatts currently.  The Tanzanian government also has $206 million available
from a U.S. grant program to improve electricity distribution in
the country, according to the U.S. Embassy in Tanzania. Symbion
Power and  Pike Electric Corp. (PIKE) , based in Mount Airy,  North
Carolina , won contracts of $110 million and $18 million
respectively from the Millennium Challenge Account to build
substations and extend electricity distribution in Tanzania, the
embassy said on its website.  Symbion Power said last week it signed an interim agreement
with Tanesco to sell power to the state-owned utility. The
company charges a rate of $4.99 per kilowatt hour, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 