-- 
Syrian Refugees Fleeing Assad’s Attack Reach 6,800 in Turkey

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-06-13T15:29:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/syrian-refugees-fleeing-assad-s-attack-reach-6-800-in-turkey.html
The number of Syrians seeking refuge
in  Turkey  jumped by about 2,800 as President Bashar al-Assad’s
forces attacked the northwestern town of Jisr al-Shughour, five
days after the regime said 120 government troops were killed.  There are 6,817 Syrians in four tent cities set up in the
province of Hatay, state-run Anatolia news agency reported,
citing the Disaster and Emergency Management Presidency, a unit
of the Turkish prime minister’s office. As of yesterday, there
were 5,051 refugees and existing preparations by Turkey’s Red
Crescent can accommodate as many as 8,000 people.  Units of the Syrian army took full control over Jisr al-
Shughour after it rolled into the city yesterday to “purify it
from members of armed groups,” Syrian television reported. The
state-run network said the attack is a response to the deaths of
120 members of the security forces in the town on June 7.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  of Turkey talked with
his U.K. counterpart  David Cameron  today and the two leaders
agreed on the importance of an international response to the
increasingly dangerous situation for Syrians and the region,
according to Anatolia.  Erdogan had said before winning a third term yesterday that
he’d talk with Assad in a “very different way” once the
election was over.  Britain and  France  put forward on June 8 a motion in the
 United Nations Security Council  to condemn Syria’s crackdown
against protesters. The measure is backed by the U.S. and
opposed by  Russia , which has veto power.  “I am deeply concerned about the violence over the past
few months in Syria,  which has reportedly killed 1,200 people
and caused over 10,000 to flee the country,” UN emergency
relief coordinator Valerie Amos said in a statement today. “I
call on the government to respect and protect civilians, and to
refrain from the use of force against peaceful demonstrators.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 