-- 
U.S. Faces ‘Vicious Circle’ with Pakistan on Afghanistan Troop Withdrawal

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-06-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/u-s-faces-vicious-circle-on-afghan-withdrawal.html
     June 13 (Bloomberg) -– The political pressure on President
 Barack Obama  to speed the withdrawal of U.S. troops from
Afghanistan has grown since the death of al-Qaeda leader Osama
bin Laden and is complicating his second goal in the region:
getting  Pakistan  to move against Taliban operations on its side
of the border.  Pakistan’s importance was highlighted by outgoing CIA chief
Leon Panetta’s visit on June 10 to Islamabad, the Pakistani
capital. His unannounced trip came just a day after he said
Pakistan has “relationships with certain terrorist groups”
during the Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing on his
nomination to become secretary of defense.  The U.S. sees a Pakistani crackdown on the militants as a
necessary step toward stability in neighboring  Afghanistan  as
the U.S. withdraws troops. In Pakistan, particularly within the
military, those same militants are considered a counterweight
against regional rival India gaining influence in Afghanistan
once the U.S. exits, say regional experts such a Lisa Curtis, a
senior research fellow at the Heritage Foundation in Washington.  “It’s a vicious circle,” Curtis said in a telephone
interview. “The more the U.S. talks about withdrawing troops
from Afghanistan and the more pressure that comes from  Capitol
Hill  to speed up that withdrawal, the less cooperation we’re
likely to get from Pakistan.”  Some Pakistani leaders are reluctant to give up influence
with the Taliban, said Bruce Riedel, a senior fellow at of the
 Brookings Institution  in  Washington .  ‘Jihadist Frankenstein’  “The Pakistani army continues to believe that parts of the
Jihadist Frankenstein it created are useful assets and is not
prepared to dismantle those assets,” Riedel, a former CIA
officer and National Security Council staff member, said in a
telephone interview.  Obama is expected soon to order a drawdown to begin next
month, as promised when he approved a surge of 30,000 extra
troops for Afghanistan in December 2009.  The political pressure for withdrawal is bipartisan, polls
show, though it comes more strongly from Democrats. Senior
Democratic lawmakers, such as Senate Foreign Relations Committee
Chairman  John Kerry  of Massachusetts and Senate Armed Services
Committee Chairman  Carl Levin  of  Michigan , said they want
significant troops reductions. Arizona Republican Senator  John McCain  is among those who said a drawdown should be small in
order to maintain security gains.  ‘Cut and Run’  The debate and the speed of the drawdown will have
ramifications for Afghanistan’s stability and for the U.S.-
Pakistani relationship, say analysts such as Curtis, Riedel and
military analyst  Anthony Cordesman  of the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in Washington.  “Pakistan is following this debate very, very closely,”
Riedel said. “Their assumption all along has been that the
 United States  will cut and run from Afghanistan.”  The Obama administration is aware of that and, while the
president is awaiting a military recommendation before
announcing his timetable, outgoing Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  has sought to dispel the notion of an abrupt pullout.  “There will be no rush to the exits,” he said in a speech
June 10 in Brussels.  In his June 9 testimony, Panetta described Pakistan’s
importance to the United States. NATO-led troops in Afghanistan
rely on supply routes through Pakistan. At the same time,
Afghanistan’s “primary enemy” is the militants based in
Pakistan’s tribal areas, he said. The militants include the
Taliban and the Haqqani Network, an extremist group that a
recent Defense Department report called “the most significant
threat in eastern Afghanistan.”  Loose Nukes  Pakistan also has nuclear weapons and “there’s the danger
those nukes could wind up in the wrong hands,” Panetta said.  In a speech in February, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said Pakistan was “pivotal” to stabilizing Afghanistan,
including using its influence to “help push the Taliban toward
the negotiating table” with Afghan leaders.  Afghan President President  Hamid Karzai  and Pakistan’s
Prime Minister Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani launched a joint
commission June 11 to work for reconciliation in Afghanistan, as
the government in Kabul pursues peace talks with the Taliban.
Reconciliation is key to the NATO-led coalition’s plan to
transfer security responsibility nationwide to Afghan forces in
2014 and withdraw.  ‘Greatest Threat’  U.S. officials argue that Pakistan must deal with the
militants for its own sake. Clinton has noted, often, that
terrorists using Pakistan’s tribal areas as a haven have killed
more Pakistanis than any other group.  “My view is that the terrorists in their country are
probably the greatest threat to their sovereignty,” Panetta
said June 9. Yet the Pakistanis “maintain relationships with
certain terrorist groups,” Panetta said, and “they continue to
not take aggressive action with regard to these safe havens.”  That’s because historically, Pakistan hasn’t seen the
militants as a major threat, said Riedel. It helped create some
of the groups, partly to counter Afghan governments that
Pakistan considered hostile and partly to work against its arch
rival India.  Osama bin Laden  was contracted by Pakistan’s spy agency,
the Directorate of Inter-Services Intelligence, to help Muslim
“freedom fighters” battle the  Soviet Union  in Afghanistan.
Jalaluddin Haqqani, patriarch of the Haqqani Network, worked
with Pakistani and U.S. intelligence in the 1980s.  History Lesson  Pakistani leaders are mindful of how U.S. aid evaporated
after the 1989 Soviet defeat in Afghanistan, Cordesman said.
While Clinton and other leaders have stressed the long-term U.S.
commitment to the region, Cordesman said there is a suspicion
that “the United States might not continue aid to Pakistan
despite all the talk.”  Pakistan would maintain ties to the militants to hedge
against its historic distrust of Afghanistan, Cordesman said,
and the possibility that  India , on Pakistan’s east, might expand
its influence in Afghanistan on the west.  The pace of the U.S. withdrawal will be a factor in
Pakistani decisions, Cordesman said. “The faster the reduction
takes place, the more the Pakistanis are going to conclude that
they need to act in their own strategic interests,” Cordesman
said in a telephone interview.  Leak Reports  During Panetta’s visit, his first to Pakistan since U.S.
Navy SEALs killed bin Laden last month, he was expected to raise
two recent incidents in which it appeared that insurgent
bombmakers evaded capture because they were tipped off by allies
in Pakistan’s security agencies. Panetta met with Chief of the
Army Staff General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani and ISI head General
Ahmed Shujaa Pasha at the Army House in Rawalpindi, the garrison
city which adjoins Islamabad, according to the Pakistani
newspaper Dawn.  In his testimony before his trip, Panetta told lawmakers on
Senate Foreign Relations Committee that Pakistan’s cooperation
will determine future U.S. aid to the country. The U.S. funneled
a total $4.3 billion in aid and military reimbursements to
Pakistan in fiscal year 2010, according to the  Congressional
Research Service , the nonpartisan research group that serves
lawmakers.  If the U.S. finds that Pakistan has failed to aggressively
pursue the militants, said Curtis of the  Heritage Foundation ,
“there will be quite a lot of bitterness and calls to cut ties
with Pakistan altogether. It’s in Pakistan’s interest to come to
the table.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva   msilva34@bloomberg.net  