-- 
U.S. Senate Computer Networks Infiltrated by Domestic, European Activists

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-06-13T23:22:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/u-s-senate-computer-networks-infiltrated-by-domestic-european-activists.html
A group of U.S. and European hackers
said today it had accessed a  U.S. Senate  computer server and
backed up the boast by posting computer files obtained in the
attack on the Internet.  LulzSec, a hacker activist group made up of former members
of the hacker organization Anonymous, said it had also broken
into the networks of Bethesda Softworks and released sign-ons
and passwords of users of a pornography website.  The actions follow more than two weeks worth of cyber
attacks by the group, which also include hacking the computer
networks of PBS, the television network Fox, and the Atlanta
chapter of a U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation affiliate
called InfraGuard.  “We don’t like the U.S. government very much,” the
hackers said in a release that accompanied technical data from
senate.gov, the U.S. Senate website, which cyber security
experts said confirmed they had hacked the server.  Martina Bradford, deputy sergeant-at-arms of the U.S.
Senate, said the body’s IT security staff became aware of access
to the server over the weekend. “The intruder did not gain
access into the Senate computer network and was only able to
read and determine the directory structure of the file placed on
senate.gov,” Bradford said.  Feats Publicized  The LulzSec hackers, who Barrett Brown, an informal
spokesman for Anonymous, said are based mostly in the U.S. and
 Europe , have publicized their feats on Twitter as well as the
group’s website, lulzsecurity.com, even though the actions are
possible violations of federal anti-hacking statutes.  The Senate data, known as a configuration file, could be
used by other hackers to exploit vulnerabilities in the Senate
network and obtain confidential information from U.S. lawmakers,
said E.J. Hilbert, president of online intelligence and a former
cyber security investigator for the FBI.  Hilbert said by posting the data, the group also
demonstrated weaknesses in the Senate’s network security.  “This should not be this easy to obtain,” Hilbert said.
“It’s basically a great reconnaissance tool for how to hack
into the rest of the network.”  The group also took credit for a cyber attack on Bethesda
Software, a game developer, which confirmed on its blog an
“unlawful intrusion of our websites.”  LulzSec also released login passwords for around 26,000
users of X-rated pornography website Pron.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  