-- 
U.S. Would Welcome Ethiopian Peacekeepers in Abyei, Clinton Says

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-06-13T15:25:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/u-s-would-welcome-ethiopian-peacekeepers-in-abyei-clinton-says.html
The U.S. would welcome Ethiopian
peacekeepers in Sudan’s disputed region of Abyei, Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  said, describing the situation in the area
as “deeply troubling.”  President Umar al-Bashir’s Sudanese Armed Forces occupied
Abyei on May 21, saying forces from  Southern Sudan  had attacked
its soldiers there two days before. Fighting has since spread to
the Southern Kordofan border state.  “I am going to wait to hear a report” from talks between
Southern Sudan and the government in Khartoum, Clinton told
reporters today at a press conference in Tanzania. “They went
long into the night.”  The fighting along the border between Sudan and Southern
Sudan has raised concern about a resumption of the two-decade
civil war that ended with a 2005 peace agreement. Sudanese
planes bombed a village in Southern Sudan’s Unity state for the
second time in a week today, said a local commissioner. Southern
Sudan is scheduled to become an independent state on July 9.  The bombing that hit Jaw village occurred between 7 a.m.
and 9 a.m. local time, Pariang County Commissioner Mabek Lang
said by phone from Southern Sudan’s capital, Juba. The village,
which holds a Southern Sudanese army base, is close to part of a
border that is disputed with northern Sudan.  The peace talks being held in Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian
capital, include Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir,  Salva Kiir ,
the president of Southern Sudan,  Thabo Mbeki , the head of the
African Union High-Level Implementation Panel, and Ethiopian
President  Meles Zenawi .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Digby Lidstone at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net  