-- 
U.S. Stock Futures Are Little Changed; Transatlantic Rallies

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-06-13T09:21:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/u-s-stock-index-futures-little-changed-transatlantic-gains-bemis-drops.html
U.S. stock-index futures were little
changed, indicating the benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
will remain near a three-month low.  Transatlantic Holdings Inc. (TRH) , the reinsurer formerly owned
by American International Group Inc., surged 10 percent in
German trading after agreeing to merge with  Switzerland ’s Allied
World Assurance Company Holdings AG. Bemis Company Inc., a maker
of packaging and pressure-sensitive materials, slipped 1.9
percent after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. downgraded the shares.  Futures on the S&P 500 expiring in September slipped less
than 0.1 percent to 1,264.1 at 10:20 a.m. in  London . Dow Jones
Industrial Average futures gained 5 points, or less than 0.1
percent, to 11,878 after the gauge completed the longest stretch
of weekly losses since 2002 on June 10.  More than $1 trillion has been erased from U.S. equity
markets since the  S&P 500 ’s peak on April 29, leaving the
measure trading at about 12.8 times its companies’ estimated
earnings. That’s the cheapest valuation since August.  “It is becoming apparent to everyone that this is not an
investors’ market,” said Toby Campbell-Gray, head of trading at
Tavira Securities Ltd. in  Monaco . “Macroeconomics continue to
be sluggish and valuations are now completely subjective in most
industries. Proper investors will start to defend their capital
and go to lower risk strategies.”  ‘Perfect Storm’  New York University professor Nouriel Roubini warned in an
interview that a “perfect storm” of fiscal woe in the U.S., a
slowdown in  China , European debt restructuring and stagnation in
 Japan  may converge on the global economy.  There’s a one-in-three chance the factors will combine to
stunt growth from 2013, Roubini said in a June 11 interview in
 Singapore . Other possible outcomes are “anemic but OK” global
growth, or an “optimistic” scenario in which the expansion  A Commerce Department report tomorrow may show U.S. retail
sales fell for the first time in 11 months in May. A 0.5 percent
drop in purchases would follow a 0.5 percent gain in April,
according to the median forecast of 62 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Other data might show inflation eased.  Transatlantic rallied 10 percent to $48.42 after agreeing
to merge with Allied World Assurance in a $3.2 billion deal that
creates a reinsurer with operations in 18 countries. Allied will
exchange 0.88 of a share for each Transatlantic share to create
TransAllied Group Holdings AG, with Transatlantic’s shareholders
owning about 58 percent of the combined company, the insurers
said yesterday in a statement. Allied World shares didn’t trade
in  Europe .  Deere Gains  Deere & Co. (DE) , the world’s largest farm-equipment maker, rose
0.4 percent to $82.16 in German trading. North American
construction equipment markets are growing, analysts at
Citigroup Inc. led by Timothy Thein wrote in a note to clients.  Cerus Corp. (CERS) , the developer of systems to enhance the safety
of blood transfusions, increased 1.5 percent to $2.72 after
signing a distribution agreement with Ilex Medical Ltd.  Bemis lost 1.9 percent to $31.99 after Goldman Sachs cut
its rating on the shares to “sell” from “neutral.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 