-- 
U.S. Risk Council Needs Clear Criteria, Bailout Watchdog Says

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-06-13T23:19:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/u-s-risk-council-needs-clear-criteria-bailout-watchdog-says.html
A council of regulators charged with
preventing an economic crisis should devise “clear, objective
criteria” to decide which companies could pose a risk to the
financial system, a government bailout watchdog said.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council “must be
transparent about how it will apply both objective and
subjective criteria to a failing institution,” Christy Romero,
acting special inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief
Program, said in testimony prepared for a congressional hearing
to be held tomorrow.  The oversight council, created by the Dodd-Frank financial
overhaul law, must decide which non-bank financial companies are
systemically important and require Federal Reserve supervision.
The firms will have to design plans that detail how they could
be broken up if they were in danger of failing. The council
includes Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner .  “Even if some aspects of systemic significance are
necessarily subjective and dependent on the nature of the crisis
at the time, an emphasis on the development of clear, objective
criteria in advance of the next crisis would significantly aid
decision makers,” Romero said. Her testimony to a House
Financial Services Committee panel was published on the
committee’s website today.  Romero warned that unless big institutions “are either
broken up so that they are no longer a threat to the financial
system, or a structure is put in place to assure that they will
be left to suffer the full consequences of their own folly, the
prospect of more bailouts will potentially fuel more bad
behavior with potentially disastrous results.” She named
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , which received a $45 billion taxpayer bailout,
an example of a large institution.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  