-- 
Hulu Adds Three U.K. TV Shows as Battle With Netflix Heats Up

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-06-13T07:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/hulu-adds-three-u-k-tv-shows-as-battle-with-netflix-heats-up.html
Hulu .com, the online streaming
service controlled by three of the biggest U.S. broadcasters,
acquired rights to three popular U.K. television shows, boosting
competition with Netflix Inc. and other video sites.  “Misfits” premieres June 20, while “Whites” and “The
Booth at the End” will be available starting in July on Hulu’s
subscription and free services, the Los Angeles-based website
said in a statement. New episodes of all three programs will be
released each week through the current on-air season.  Hulu is adding new TV shows and films as competition for
online viewers and subscribers heats up with Netflix and Google
Inc.’s YouTube. This month Hulu started showing Miramax’s “Good
Will Hunting,” “Pulp Fiction” and other movies, and in April
the Hulu Plus subscription service became available on Microsoft
Corp.’s Xbox video-game console. Hulu’s owners include  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC, News Corp.’s Fox and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC.  “We are constantly beating the bushes for great shows,”
Andy Forssell, senior vice president of content acquisition and
distribution at Hulu, said in an interview. “Our first partners
were the major networks and studios. We’ve broadened our
approach to reach great content wherever it’s produced.”  “Misfits,” which airs on Channel 4 in the U.K., follows
five teenagers sentenced to community service for committing
crimes who gain superhero powers after an electrical storm.
“Whites” is a BBC comedy about a chef who has lost his zeal
though not his talents.  Web Series  “The Booth at the End,” a thriller from Michael Eisner’s
Vuguru LLC, features a mysterious man seated at the end of a
diner who solves people’s problems and heals the sick in
exchange for their completing difficult tasks of his own. The
show began as a Web series, and episodes have appeared on  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s FX channel in the U.K.  Hulu has exclusive U.S. rights to stream the programs over
the next several months and plans to use them to promote its
$7.99 a month Hulu Plus service, Forssell said. Hulu Plus offers
full seasons of shows, while the free version is more limited.  The shows, particularly “Misfits,” will reach male and
female viewers ages 18 to 34, a group targeted by advertisers,
he said.  “We look for shows that have a hook,” Forssell said. “We
want shows where after an episode, or 10 minutes with ‘The
Booth,’ you want to e-mail 10 of your friends. It’s crucial to
have those shows because our platform is ripe for sharing.”  Hulu Plus will have 1 million paying subscribers by year-
end, Chief Executive Officer Jason Kilar said in an April blog
post. Netflix, based in  Los Gatos ,  California , said that month
that it had 23 million paying subscribers in the U.S. and 
 Canada .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  