-- 
Unsafe Buses Stay on Road as U.S. Agency Grants Extensions

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 
2011-06-13T20:31:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/unsafe-buses-stay-on-road-as-u-s-regulator-backs-off-shutdowns.html
Eight times since October, U.S. bus-
safety regulators gave extensions allowing operators to stay on
the road after finding problems serious enough to shut them
down, according to Transportation Department records.  The May 31 crash of a Sky Express bus outside Richmond,
 Virginia , that killed four passengers occurred three days into a
10-day reprieve the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company
received from a shutdown order. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood ordered an end to such extensions after the crash.  The  Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration  earlier
granted extensions to four other motorcoach operators, two that
run passenger vans and one school-bus operator, spokeswoman
Candice Tolliver said. All eight operators received 10-day
extensions beyond the 45-day appeal period required by law.  “They’re cheating the public by having these quiet,
behind-the-scenes reviews of their safety and having their 45
days,” said Jackie Gillan, vice president of Advocates for
Highway and Auto Safety, a Washington-based consumer group.
“Who would have gotten on that bus knowing the violations that
they had?”  The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee today
 held a hearing  to explore whether the bus-safety agency has
enough power to shut down unsafe operators, and whether it has
used the powers it does have aggressively enough.  LaHood said on June 1 he was “extremely disappointed” the
agency hadn’t shut down Sky Express before the crash. Anne Ferro, the agency’s administrator, said in an interview the next
day that the agency used 10-day extensions to make sure its
shutdown decisions could stand up to court challenge.  ‘Corrective Action’  U.S. regulations allow the agency to grant extensions only
if a company files a “corrective action plan” to address
safety problems. Sky Express did so, Ferro said in another
interview on June 7. Tolliver declined to immediately provide
the plan, saying it contains confidential information about the
company and its drivers.  About 20 percent of the companies subject to being shut
down this fiscal year were given 10 additional days to
demonstrate they were making safety improvements, Ferro said.  Sky Express exceeded the agency’s “intervention
thresholds” for all five categories for which the regulator had
safety data, according to  information posted  on the motor
carrier agency’s website. The agency had found “serious”
violations within the past 12 months in driver fitness and
fatigued drivers, and found at least one unspecified “serious”
violation in an April 7 review.  Buses vs. Planes  Another bus company that received a reprieve, Ocean Travel
of Williamsville,  New York , exceeded FMCSA’s threshold for
intervention in five of the seven safety categories tracked. The
company’s score for driver fitness was about equal to Sky
Express’s, worse than 99.7 percent of other U.S. motor carriers.  The company was still selling tickets for trips from
Buffalo, Rochester and Liverpool, New York to  New York City  as
of June 10 on the GotoBus.com website.  Sky Express didn’t return a phone call seeking comment. A
woman answering a phone number listed for Ocean Travel said the
company was still in business and working out its problems with
the government. She declined to give her name.  FMCSA ordered Ocean Travel out of service on May 30 and is
investigating whether the company is operating, Olivia Alair, a
Transportation Department spokeswoman, said.  The bus-safety agency has stepped up enforcement, closing
three companies in the past week. The agency shut Gladwin,
Michigan-based Haines Tours on June 11 after the Ohio Highway
Patrol on May 27 stopped a bus and found six of 62 passengers
riding in the luggage compartment.  Luggage Compartment Riders  In addition to mattresses and pillows, the non-partitioned
cargo hold contained unsecured luggage, according to the
agency’s order. The same company had been cited in August for
allowing an off-duty driver to sleep in the luggage compartment.  The Transportation Department handles unsafe bus operators
with less urgency than it treats airlines with safety issues,
said Peter Pantuso, president and chief executive officer of the
 American Bus Association , a Washington-based trade group
representing about 1,000 motorcoach and tour companies operating
in the U.S. and  Canada .  The  Federal Aviation Administration  didn’t wait 45 days to
shut down the discount airline ValuJet after a 1996 fatal crash
in the Florida Everglades exposed safety concerns, he said.  Sky Express “had a history of violating the rules for a
long, long time,” Pantuso said. “Why wasn’t the process
started 12 months ago or even two years ago?”  Chinatown Buses  Senators including  Frank Lautenberg , a New Jersey Democrat,
were pushing safety legislation before the Virginia crash. A bus
operated by World Wide Travel of Greater New York crashed into a
sign post and split open March 12 while returning to  Manhattan ’s
Chinatown from Mohegan Sun, killing 15, and another Chinatown
bus crashed on the  New Jersey Turnpike  two days later, resulting
in two deaths.  A lawmaker at today’s House hearing suggested the effort
that started decades ago to do away with rules on routes and
fares had also eliminated vital safety oversight.  “The intent in deregulation was to promote competition,
not kill people,” Representative Peter DeFazio, an Oregon
Democrat, said. “That’s where a total deregulatory environment
fails us.”  The FMCSA has said that about 15 percent of more than 3,000
U.S. commercial buses subjected to surprise inspections in May
were taken off the road for safety reasons.  ‘Continued Slow Progress’  The  National Transportation Safety Board , which
investigates transportation accidents and recommends safety
improvements, first said in 1999 that the motor carrier agency
doesn’t place enough emphasis on driver and vehicle
qualifications in determining a company’s safety rating.  In a February 2010 update, NTSB said it was concerned by
the FMCSA’s “continued slow progress in addressing this
issue.” Agency changes announced so far don’t go far enough to
change that assessment, said Nicholas Worrell, a NTSB spokesman.  A bill backed by the American Bus Association would require
the Transportation Department “to root out bad actors and
unsafe and illegal motorcoach operators,” according to an April
6 news release from its author, Representative Bill Shuster, a
Pennsylvania Republican.  Consumer Protections  A bill approved by the  Senate Commerce, Science and
Transportation Committee  on May 5 includes provisions to beef up
motor-carrier administrative powers. The measure, introduced by
 Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, also includes several mandates
for vehicle improvements, including seat belts and stronger
roofs. The House bill would require testing and research of the
safety features and issue rules later.  “We can’t wait for yet another deadly bus crash to
increase protections for consumers,” Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand , a New York Democrat, said in an e-mailed statement.
“The Department of Transportation needs to use the tools and
resources they have to provide proper oversight and
accountability to this growing industry.”  Brown, Gillibrand and four other senators, in a letter June
6, asked LaHood to spell out what short-term steps can be taken
to shorten the timeframe for allowing problem companies to come
into compliance.  More Authority  “It is apparent that the pattern of enforcement by DOT has
been uneven, inconsistent and ineffective,” the senators wrote.
“FMCSA failed to enforce its statutory authority to place the
carrier out of service,” referring to Sky Express.  Underscoring Ferro’s concerns about bus companies being
“reincarnated,” the agency on June 3 issued a cease and desist
order against Sky Express. The carrier kept selling tickets
after being shut down following the crash and was repainting
“some or all of its vehicles” in preparation to operate under
another name, the agency said in its order.  Four Sky Express buses were pulled over by Maryland State
Police outside  Washington  on Friday, WTOP radio reported. The
buses were being driven from  North Carolina  to New York after
being repossessed and carried no passengers, according to the
report.  FMCSA needs the authority to physically close a company and
impound its vehicles, not just to take away its operating
authority, Pantuso said.  The bus safety agency will propose a regulation by the end
of the year to alter the way it targets companies for shutdown,
Ferro said in the June 7 interview. The agency wants to shift
from relying on “labor intensive” on-site compliance reviews
to monitoring data about vehicle and driver citations, according
to a Transportation Department regulatory summary.  The Transportation Department rejects about one-fourth of
the 1,200 applications it receives for new bus operations each
year, Ferro said in a May 5 interview about rogue companies
attempting to reopen under different names. Additional powers to
shut such “reincarnated” operators may result in preventing
about 300 from reopening each year, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  