-- 
Turkey Current-Account Gap Widens, Shows Erdogan Challenge

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-06-13T10:45:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/turkey-current-account-gap-widens-shows-erdogan-challenge-3-.html
Turkey’s current-account deficit
widened in April from a year earlier, underlining the most
pressing economic weakness facing Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  as he starts his third term in office.  The deficit widened to $7.7 billion from $4.4 billion in
the same month of 2010, the state statistics agency in Ankara
said on its website today. It was the second-biggest gap since
records began in 1984, after the revised $9.7 billion record
that was posted in March. The median forecast of seven
economists was $7.6 billion.  Erdogan won yesterday’s parliamentary election with 50
percent of the vote. His third successive victory came amid an
economic boom, with growth of 8.9 percent last year drawing in
imports of raw materials and  consumer goods . Central bank
Governor Erdem Basci is trying to reduce the deficit by
restricting demand through limits on bank lending.  “The numbers clearly suggest that the central bank should
not be left alone in policy-making,” said  Tevfik Aksoy , head of
emerging market economics for the region at Morgan Stanley in
 London . “The primary goal of the new government should be to
take fiscal measures, hopefully along with the bank regulator,
to give support to the central bank’s monetary policy.”  The lira rose 0.1 percent to 1.5746 per dollar at 1:26 p.m.
in Istanbul. Two-year benchmark bond yields dropped for a fourth
day, falling 1 basis point to 8.86 percent.  Above Target  The deficit, forecast by the government to widen this year
to $42.9 billion, or 5.4 percent of gross domestic product,
reached $63.4 billion in the 12 months through April.  In the first three months of the year short-term investment
financed 43 percent of the deficit, compared to 26 percent in
the same period of 2010, according to a  report  on the central
bank’s website.  Turkey  imports about 95 percent of its energy
needs and rising oil prices caused by unrest in the  Middle East 
and North Africa are partly to blame for the widening gap, the
bank said.  Turkey won’t win a credit rating increase to investment
grade until policymakers take steps to slow an economy “which
is showing some signs of overheating,”  Ed Parker , managing
director for Fitch Rating, said in a statement. “The latest
trajectory of the current-account deficit, inflation and bank
credit growth means the jury remains out on this.”  “Fitch would view post-election fiscal policy tightening
measures as beneficial in helping to take some of the heat out
of the economy and providing support to the central bank,” he
said.  Reserve Requirements  Basci cut the benchmark interest rate by 75 basis points,
or 0.75 percentage point, in December and January and has left
it unchanged at 6.25 percent since then. Basci has restricted
bank lending as a tool to fight inflation and prevent demand for
imports. Reserve requirements have increased 10 percentage
points since December.  Turkey will consider using the budget and possibly
sanctions on individual banks to ensure its goals are met,
Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan  said on June 10.  Moody’s Investors Service last week urged the government to
tighten the budget after elections and said Turkey’s credit
rating may be cut if it has difficulty financing the current-
account gap.  Moody’s ranks Turkey at Ba2, two levels below investment
grade, with a positive outlook.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the
country an equivalent BB, also with a positive outlook, and
 Fitch Ratings  has a BB+ ranking, one step below investment
grade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 