-- 
Mutual Fund Shareholder Suits Curbed by U.S. Supreme Court

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-06-13T20:20:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/mutual-fund-shareholder-suits-limited-by-u-s-supreme-court-in-janus-case.html
A divided U.S. Supreme Court threw
out a suit against  Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS)  in a ruling that
will limit the ability of shareholders of mutual fund companies
to press securities fraud suits.  The court, voting 5-4 along ideological lines, today  said 
shareholders can’t sue Janus and a subsidiary for helping
produce allegedly misleading prospectuses for Janus  mutual
funds . The majority said that the funds are separate legal
entities and that neither the parent company nor the subsidiary
were responsible for the prospectuses.  “The mutual funds industry is breathing a big sigh of
relief today because the spillover consequences of a broad
definition of who makes a prospectus could have been huge,”
said Robert Skinner, a Ropes & Gray LLP attorney in  Boston 
specializing in investment management litigation.  The case was a follow-up to a 2008  Supreme Court  decision
that curbed securities suits against a company’s banks and
business partners. In his opinion for the court today, Justice
 Clarence Thomas  said the shareholders were seeking to “create
the broad liability that we rejected” in the 2008 case.  “Any reapportionment of liability in the securities
industry in light of the close relationship between investment
advisers and mutual funds is properly the responsibility of
Congress and not the courts,” Thomas wrote.  Beyond Mutual Funds  The ruling may have ramifications well beyond the mutual
fund industry, said William Birdthistle, a professor who
specializes in investment fund law and securities regulation at
Chicago-Kent College of Law.  “It’s a blueprint for operating companies to see what the
investment companies are doing and to make themselves as
bulletproof as the investment advisers,” said Birdthistle, who
filed a brief backing the Janus shareholders.  The fight stemmed from allegations that Janus let preferred
clients engage in market timing, a practice of making frequent,
short-term trades at the expense of other investors.  The prospectuses said the funds had taken steps to deter
market timing. In the lawsuit, Janus shareholders said those
assurances were revealed to be false in 2003 when New York state
officials filed a complaint against the company, causing its
share price to fall. Denver-based Janus later agreed to pay $201
million and cut fees by $125 million to settle claims by state
and federal regulators.  Legally Distinct  The shareholders were seeking to sue both Janus Capital
Group and Janus Capital Management LLC, which serves as the
investment adviser to the funds and has day-to-day
responsibility for their management.  Thomas said those entities were legally distinct from Janus
Investment Fund, the investor-owned trust responsible for
issuing the prospectuses.  “There is no allegation that JCM in fact filed the
prospectuses and falsely attributed them to Janus Investment
Fund,” Thomas wrote. “Nor did anything on the face of the
prospectuses indicate that any statements therein came from JCM
rather than Janus Investment Fund -- a legally independent
entity with its own board of directors.”  Janus shares rose 11 cents to $9.22 at 4:01 p.m. in trading
on the New York Stock Exchange.  Close Relationship  Justices Stephen Breyer,  Ruth Bader Ginsburg ,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan  dissented.  “The relationship between Janus Management and the fund
could hardly have been closer,” Breyer wrote for the group.
“Janus Management’s involvement in preparing and writing the
relevant statements could hardly have been greater. And there is
a serious suggestion that the board itself knew little or
nothing about the falsity of what was said.”  The Obama administration and the Securities and Exchange
Commission  backed  the shareholders at the Supreme Court.
Although the case focused on the ability of private shareholders
to sue, it may also limit the SEC.  “The ruling affects the SEC’s enforcement authority just
as much as it impedes investors’ ability to bring private
actions for false statements made through others,” said the
Janus shareholders’ lawyer, David Frederick of Kellogg Huber
Hansen Todd Evans & Figel PLLC in Washington.  SEC Reaction  John Nester , a spokesman for the commission, said the
ruling “makes clear that the SEC has tools to pursue such
cases.” Unlike private litigants, the SEC can sue companies and
people for aiding and abetting a violation of the securities
laws.  Even so, Breyer’s dissent questioned whether the SEC would
be able to act in similar cases.  “Under the majority’s rule, it seems unlikely that the SEC
itself in such circumstances could exercise the authority
Congress has granted it” to pursue both so-called primary
violators and those who aid and abet, he said.  Today’s decision limited the scope of Rule 10b-5, the SEC
rule that bars companies from making false statements in
connection with the purchase or sale of securities.  “We are delighted that the Supreme Court has agreed with
our position that only the person ultimately responsible for a
statement can be sued for fraud in a private class action under
Rule 10b-5,” said Janus’s high court lawyer, Mark Perry of
Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP in  Washington .  The ruling “seems to disregard the importance of integrity
in the markets,” Frederick said. “Investors are denied an
important remedy if they are deceived by knowingly false
statements made through intermediaries.”  The case is Janus Capital Group v. First Derivative
Traders, 09-525.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  