-- 
Vale Controlling Group Seeks Bigger Role After CEO Ouster

-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-06-13T21:07:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/vale-controlling-group-seeks-increasing-role-after-ceo-ouster.html
Vale SA (VALE5) ’s controlling shareholders
are seeking to increase their role in management of the world’s
biggest iron-ore producer after replacing the chief executive
officer last month, a pension fund in the group said.  The group plans to hold regular meetings to discuss
management of the Rio de Janeiro-based company with CEO Murilo Ferreira, who they named to succeed  Roger Agnelli , said  Funcef 
President Carlos Alberto Caser. Funcef is one of four pension
funds that share control of Vale with other investors.  “The shareholders need to have a more active voice in
Vale,” Caser said in an interview in Brasilia today. “We are
seeking to have more interaction with the management, which
didn’t exist in the past.”  Vale’s controlling shareholders ousted Agnelli after the
Brazilian government criticized the company for job cuts and not
investing enough in domestic projects, including steel mills.
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told senators May 3 that Vale is
of strategic importance for  Brazil  and that he participated in
meetings with the group to discuss Agnelli’s departure.  Vale will maintain its record $24 billion spending plan
this year, Ferreira said May 20. Funcef doesn’t have a problem
with Vale boosting its investments on growth projects even if it
means lower dividends for shareholders, Caser said.  “It ends up paying off,” he said during the interview.  Pension Fund Stakes  In October 2009, Funcef then-president Guilherme Lacerda
said the fund may seek to sell its Vale stake because it didn’t
have much say in how the company was run.  Brazilian pension funds Funcef, Previ, Petros and Funcesp,
all linked to state-run institutions, hold 49 percent of Valepar
SA, the company that controls Vale with about 53 percent of
common stock. Other Valepar shareholders are  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) ,
Mitsui & Co. and Brazil’s state-owned development bank, which
also has a 6.7 percent direct stake in Vale’s common shares.  FIA Carteira Ativa II, a fund controlled by Funcef, holds
about 11 percent of Valepar. Funcef’s indirect stake is worth
about 7.8 billion reais ($4.91 billion), according to the fund.  Vale dropped 66 centavos, or 1.5 percent, to 43.40 reais in
Sao Paulo trading, its lowest level since May 18. Before today,
Vale fell 9.2 percent this year, less than the 9.5 percent drop
in the benchmark Bovespa index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Brasilia at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  