-- 
Sterlite Set for Trial to Defend Lawsuit Over Retreat From Asarco Purchase

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-06-13T19:30:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/vedanta-unit-goes-to-trial-to-defend-lawsuit-over-scuttled-asarco-deal.html
A unit of  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , the
mining company controlled by billionaire Anil Agarwal, is
seeking to defeat a lawsuit over its failure in 2008 to complete
the $2.6 billion purchase of copper-mining company  Asarco  LLC.  Sterlite Industries ( India ) Ltd., the Vedanta unit, walked
away from the deal to buy Asarco out of bankruptcy, blaming the
financial crisis and a plunge in copper prices. Almost three
years later, Asarco’s lawsuit, filed against Sterlite in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court Corpus Christi,  Texas , is going to trial today.  The lawsuit pits London-based Vedanta against Grupo Mexico
SAB, a Mexican mining company and Asarco’s parent. The two
companies fought for control of Asarco in 2009 after Sterlite
made a new deal to acquire the Tucson, Arizona-based company.
Grupo  Mexico  ultimately defeated Vedanta and kept Asarco with a
$2.5 billion bankruptcy plan.  Sterlite, based in India, says Asarco is seeking an
“impermissible windfall” after collecting $2.7 billion from
Grupo Mexico that followed a bidding war over the company,
according to a court filing. Asarco used the money from Grupo
Mexico to pay creditors and exit bankruptcy.  Asarco could collect more than $2.2 billion if its view of
damages in the case prevails, Sterlite said in court papers.
That would mean Grupo Mexico acquired Asarco “virtually for
free” because it would recover most of the money it paid to
keep control of Asarco.  “This brazen grab for a double-recovery is all the more
offensive by reason of the fact that it is being made for the
indirect benefit” of Grupo Mexico, which opposed the Sterlite
offer, the company said.  William Roll, an attorney for Sterlite, declined comment
before the trial. Bryan Dumesnil, an Asarco attorney, couldn’t
be reached for comment.  Environmental Liabilities  Asarco filed for bankruptcy in 2005 amid a labor strike
while it was weighed down by environmental liabilities and
asbestos personal-injury claims. It decided to sell its assets
and met with bidders in May 2008. It selected Sterlite’s $2.6
billion offer as the winning bid.  In October 2008, Sterlite told Asarco that it couldn’t do
the deal. Douglas Bartner, an attorney for the company, told
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Richard Schmidt in  Corpus Christi  that
completing the sale would leave the company in an “unacceptably
vulnerable financial position.”  He blamed the “complete collapse” of copper prices and
the onset of the financial crisis following the bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September.  ‘Pricing Cycle’  “It would be unable to support its mining operations
through this pricing cycle, be unable to fund existing projects.
It would result in great uncertainty for thousands of employees
around the world,” Bartner said about completing the purchase,
according to a transcript of the hearing.  Asarco says it “undisputedly” suffered damages when
Sterlite said it wouldn’t close.  Sterlite’s focus on Grupo Mexico’s successful bid for the
company is “misguided,” Asarco said in court papers.  “Nothing that happened after Sterlite’s breach on Oct. 13,
2008, is relevant to Asarco’s damages,” the company said.  The case is Asarco LLC V. Sterlite (USA) Inc., 10-02010,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of Texas (Corpus
Christi).  To contact the report on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  