-- 
Venezuela to Boost Power Tariffs as Much as 200% After Blackout Strikes

-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 
2011-06-13T19:15:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/venezuela-to-boost-power-tariffs-after-blackout-strikes-1-.html
Venezuela, the largest oil producer
in  South America , will boost power prices as much as 200 percent
to counter rising demand after a blackout affected several
thousand megawatts of capacity in the western state of Zulia.  Bills will rise threefold for residential users that are
consuming 20 percent more power compared with 2009 levels after
a July 15 deadline, Electricity Minister Ali Rodriguez said
today in Caracas. Power bills will rise 10 percent in the first
month and five percent in each successive month for industrial
users that don’t reduce usage by a 10th, he said.  The South American country’s power grid has been strained
since a severe drought last year threatened to halt its largest
hydroelectric plant, which prompted the government to reduce
steel production, impose rolling blackouts and set fines for
large consumers. Increasing demand is outpacing new generation
capacity, Rodriguez said today on state television.  “Demand is excessive,” Rodriguez said. “All Venezuelans
need to make an effort to use electricity in an efficient
manner,” he said.  Industrial users defined as high energy consumers by the
government and which have their own generators must use them for
up to nine hours a day, Venezuelan Vice president Elias Jaua
said today on state television. Those companies that do not have
generators must purchase them by the end of the year, according
to Rodriguez.  Venezuela ’s government will exempt some clients from the
new regulations including oil, food and media companies.
Exemptions will also be provided to embassies, airports,
hospitals, police stations and schools, according to the
minister.  The country is planning to increase generation capacity by
9,172 megawatts by 2012 and is also working to improve
maintenance of transmission lines, said Rodriguez.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  