-- 
Venezuela to Restrict Electricity Use for Second Straight Year on Blackout

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-06-13T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/venezuela-to-restrict-electricity-use-for-second-straight-year.html
Venezuela , the largest oil producer
in  South America , will announce measures to curb electricity
consumption for a second-consecutive year today, prompted by a
blackout in the country’s most-populous state, Zulia, over the
weekend.  Vice President Elias Jaua said that the measures will be
announced tomorrow in a press conference with Electricity
Minister Ali Rodriguez. A failure at the Tablazo power plant in
Zulia left five western states without power on Saturday morning
and authorities continued to work last night to restore  service 
to Maracaibo, the second-largest city.  Venezuela’s power grid has been strained since a severe
drought last year threatened to halt the largest hydroelectric
plant, which prompted the government to halt some steel
production, impose rolling blackouts and set fines for large
consumers. Demand is outpacing new generation capacity, Jaua
said yesterday on state television.  “We’ve been dealing with this situation for about two
months, trying to avoid sudden interruptions in service, the
current demand keeps climbing,” Jaua said yesterday. “We need
to take extraordinary measures to regulate the demand and
stabilize the grid.”  Jaua said that President  Hugo Chavez , who is currently
recovering from an unplanned surgery in Cuba for a pelvic
abscess, has been in contact with his cabinet to design policies
to resolve the electricity problem. Jaua didn’t provide details
on what measures may be announced.  Nationwide Blackout  A nationwide blackout on April 7 knocked about 10,000
megawatts offline, or about 65 percent of demand, which slowed
output at heavy oil upgraders in the east of the country.  An official at state-run Petroleos de Venezuela SA, who
isn’t authorized to speak publicly, said that no oil operations
were affected by the blackout in energy-rich Zulia state over
the weekend.  Chavez installed about 1,700 megawatts of new generation
capacity last year, below the government’s 5,000-megawatt
target. Rodriguez said the government expects to add 2,568
megawatts to the grid this year.  Finance Minister  Jorge Giordani  said in April that the
government invested $5.5 billion in the electricity industry
last year and that another $3 billion to $4 billion will be
spent this year to bolster the grid.  Chavez, who has blamed foes for sabotage against
electricity installations, previous governments for failing to
invest in the sector and climate change, nationalized
Electricidad de Caracas in 2007, paying AES Corp., a U.S. power
producer, $739.3 million for its 82 percent stake in the
company.  Deepened Recession  The power shortages also deepened Venezuela’s economic
recession last year as manufacturers were forced to pare output.
The economy grew 4.5 percent in the first quarter after
contracting 1.7 percent in 2010.  Chavez last year urged Venezuelans to take 2 minute
“socialist showers,” use candles and to pare the use of air
conditioners to deal with the crisis. He also worked with Cubans
in an attempt to provoke rain by releasing silver iodide or
carbon dioxide into cumulous clouds in a practice called cloud
seeding.  The opposition says that the government has neglected the
electricity sector since the nationalization. Mayor of Caracas,
Antonio Ledezma, called for Electricity Minister Rodriguez to be
replaced, El Universal reported.  “Who is Chavez going to blame with what’s happening with
the electricity sector, the crime, high cost of life?
Christopher Columbus? The blame falls on him and his
government,” Ledezma said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  