-- 
Qantas, Virgin Resumes Some Services After Volcanic Ash Clouds Disperse

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-06-13T11:24:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/virgin-resumes-australian-new-zealand-flights-after-ash-advice-abc-says.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s
largest carrier, will pare services for a third day tomorrow
because of volcanic ash blown across the country from an
eruption in Chile.  The main Qantas unit and budget arm Jetstar will halt all
Tasmania flights through 10 a.m. and all New Zealand services
until noon, pending reviews, according to statements on their
website and Twitter feeds today. The carriers also halted
Adelaide services from 8:50 p.m. today after resuming Melbourne
flights earlier in the day.  “The waves of ash will continue to be a problem more or
less while the volcano is active,” Peter Lechner, a  New Zealand
Civil Aviation Authority  meteorological manager, said in an e-
mail. “Once the volcano ceases, there will still be about six
days of ash plume to move around the globe.”  Virgin  Australia , the nation’s second-biggest carrier, also
pared flights today because of the ash cloud and an earthquake
in Christchurch. The ash from the Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanic
complex in southern Chile has grounded flights across  South
America  and Australia, adding to disruptions suffered by
airlines in  Europe  this year because of a volcano in Iceland.  Air New Zealand Ltd. (AIR) , the country’s state-controlled
carrier, has so far avoided canceling flights because of the ash
cloud. That has involved returning services, sometimes boosting
fuel usage by as much as 10 percent, according to a statement on
its  website .  ‘Lot of Effort’  “It would have been far easier to simply cancel flights,”
David Morgan, the carrier’s chief pilot and general manager for
operations and safety, said in the statement. “It’s taken a lot
of effort by our operations teams to develop alternative flight
plans.”  Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR) ’s Australian unit resumed most
flights from 5 p.m. today, according to a statement on its
website. It canceled two Adelaide services scheduled for early
tomorrow.  Last month, ash from Iceland’s Grimsvotn volcano forced
flights cancellations in Scotland, northern  England  and  Germany .
In April, 2010, the eruption of the Eyjafjallajökull volcano,
also in Iceland, caused the cancellation of more than 100,000
flights amid concern that glass-like particles formed from lava
might melt in aircraft engines and clog turbines.  “The effect on plane engines can be drastic,”  John
Murray , senior research fellow at the Open University’s
Department of Earth Sciences said in an e-mail. Previous
incidents have blocked all four engines on jetliner or caused so
much damage to windscreens that pilots were unable to see
anything ahead of them, he said.  The eruption from Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanic complex
prompted airlines to scrap more than 300 scheduled flights to
and from the two international airports in  Buenos Aires ,
Argentina, according to a June 9 statement from operator
Aeropuertos Argentina 2000 SA. The system previously had major
eruptions in 1921-22 and 1960, according to the Washington-based
 Smithsonian Institution .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  