-- 
Obama Comments on Weiner Add to Pressure on Him to Resign U.S. House Seat

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-14T17:33:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/weiner-facing-democrats-calls-to-resign-after-seeking-leave-for-treatment.html
Pressure on U.S. Representative
Anthony Weiner to resign escalated as President  Barack Obama 
called his behavior “highly inappropriate” and House Minority
Leader  Nancy Pelosi  prodded the New York Democrat to heed the
president’s advice to leave office.  Weiner, who last week acknowledged sending lewd photos of
himself and suggestive messages to women online, was granted a
two-week leave of absence by the House last night. He had said
through a spokeswoman on June 11 that he was seeking
“professional treatment” and would request a leave.  “I can tell you that if that was me, I would resign,”
Obama said of Weiner in an interview with NBC News. “When you
get to the point where, because of various personal
distractions, you can’t serve as effectively, then you should
probably step back.” The Obama interview was broadcast this
morning on NBC’s “Today” program.  The president’s comments are his first public ones on the
scandal since June 6, when Weiner at a news conference in  New
York  apologized for making “terrible mistakes.”  Since then, several Democratic House leaders have called
for Weiner’s resignation, including Pelosi. Speaking to
reporters at the Capitol after Obama’s comments were publicized
yesterday, Pelosi said she hopes that “Congressman Weiner will
hear this, know that it is in his best interest for him to leave
Congress.”  Boehner Comments  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, told
reporters today he believed Weiner should resign. He didn’t
respond when asked whether he would take any action to encourage
him to quit.  White House press secretary Jay Carney yesterday called
Weiner’s actions “inappropriate,” while refusing to say
whether Obama would join the calls for him to resign.  “We feel at the White House this is a distraction,”
Carney told reporters traveling with the president to an event
in  North Carolina .  Pelosi in her comments last night also responded to a call
by House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
earlier in the day for Democratic leaders to take actions
against Weiner if he doesn’t resign, “perhaps stripping him”
of his committee assignment. Weiner serves on the House Energy
and Commerce Committee, which oversees the telecommunications
and health-care industries.  Committee Assignments  “This is beyond committee assignments,” said Pelosi. “If
we are asking him to leave, we are certainly not welcoming” him
“here with committee assignments.”  She disputed Cantor’s suggestion that Democrats needed to
do more to pressure Weiner.  “None of us, not anybody here, has the power to force
somebody out of office,” she said. “That person has to decide
himself as to whether he will stay or he will go.”  Representative Robert Andrews, a New Jersey Democrat, said
there was no discussion today during a private meeting of the
party’s House members of whether to strip Weiner of his caucus
membership or committee assignment.  As she left the caucus today, Pelosi told reporters she
detailed for her fellow Democrats “why I came to the
conclusion” that “Congressman Weiner should resign.”  ‘Higher Responsibility’  Weiner’s party colleagues feel both “concern for the
rights of the individual member” and a “higher responsibility
to our country to uphold a high ethical standard in the
Congress,” Pelosi said.  Representative Sander Levin, a Michigan Democrat, said
there was no need for the caucus to impose sanctions against
Weiner.  “We should send a strong message to him that he should
resign and see what happens,” Levin said. “The more of us who
say it, the more telling it will be.”  House members returned to  Washington  yesterday from a week-
long recess during which Weiner at the New York news conference
acknowledged sending the inappropriate messages and photos via
Facebook, Twitter and e-mail. He said he wouldn’t resign his
House seat, which he first won in 1998.  Lie About Hacker  Weiner also acknowledged previously lying by telling
reporters he had been the victim of a hacker’s prank.  “This is bizarre, unacceptable behavior,” House Minority
Leader Steny Hoyer, a Maryland Democrat, said yesterday of
Weiner’s actions on the CBS “Face the Nation” program. “It
seems to me extraordinarily difficult that he can proceed to
represent his constituents in an effective way given the
circumstances.”  Hoyer said he hoped Weiner would “reflect upon whether or
not he can effectively proceed. I don’t see how he can, and I
hope he would make that judgment.”  Weiner, 46, sought the leave of absence from the House “so
that he can get evaluated and map out a course of treatment to
make himself well,” his publicist, Risa Heller, said in an e-
mailed statement on June 11. Weiner is seeking “to focus on
becoming a better husband and healthier person,” Heller said.  Weiner, who is married to Huma Abedin, a top aide to
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , “takes the views of his
colleagues very seriously and has determined that he needs this
time to get healthy and make the best decision possible for
himself, his family and his constituents,” Heller said in the
statement.  Pelosi, of  California , called for a House ethics
investigation the day of Weiner’s news conference. She made her
call for Weiner’s resignation after she learned the lawmaker
would seek the leave of absence, according to a Pelosi aide who
spoke on condition of anonymity.  Pelosi issued a June 11 statement saying Weiner “has the
love of his family, the confidence of his constituents, and the
recognition that he needs help.” She urged him “to seek that
help without the pressures of being a member of Congress.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  