-- 
Wheat Export Ban by India May End After Fourth Record Crop, Halting Rally

-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 
2011-06-14T10:27:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/wheat-production-in-india-may-climb-to-record-for-fourth-year-on-planting.html
Wheat production in  India , the
world’s second-biggest grower, may advance to a record for a
fourth year, potentially spurring the government to ease exports
curbs and halting a rally in global prices.  Output may climb 6.4 percent to 86 million metric tons in
the year ending June 30 from 80.8 million tons a year earlier,
P.K. Basu, Agriculture Secretary, said in an interview yesterday
in New Delhi. That’s 2 percent more than the farm ministry’s
April 6 estimate of 84.3 million tons.  A bumper harvest may help the government end a four-year
ban on wheat exports, potentially cooling a 65 percent rally in
prices in Chicago in the past year that partly pushed global
food costs to a record in February. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Agriculture Index has surged 70 percent in the past year as dry
weather in  Europe  and  China  and floods in the U.S. eroded
prospects for corn, wheat and soybean crops.  “If India allows exports that will increase wheat supply
to the global market and be bearish for prices,” Erin FitzPatrick, a commodities analyst at Rabobank International in
 London , said in a phone interview yesterday.  World wheat production is projected at 664.3 million tons,
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said on June 9, down from
669.6 million tons estimated in May. Global inventories may
total 184.3 million tons before the 2012 harvests in the
Northern Hemisphere, compared with 187.1 million tons a year
earlier, according to the USDA.  Higher than expected grain output in India, the world’s
second-biggest consumer of rice and wheat, will cool rising food
inflation in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy. An index measuring
wholesale prices of agricultural products advanced 9.01 percent
in the week ended May 28 from a year earlier, the highest level
in eight weeks, the trade ministry said June 9.  Bountiful Harvest  “This is an unprecedented production and the bountiful
harvest will not allow local prices to go up at all,” M.K.
Dattaraj, former president of the Roller Flour Millers
Federation of India, said by phone from Bangalore. “This will
help the government ensure  food security  in the country. Wheat
will contribute lesser inflation in the food basket.”  India banned shipments of wheat in early 2007 and non-
basmati rice in April 2008 to bolster domestic supplies amid a
global food crisis. State  reserves of food grains  totaled 65.6
million tons on June 1, almost triple the quantity five years
ago, according to the Food Corp. of India.  Wheat for September delivery dropped as much as 0.7 percent
to $7.7075 a bushel on the  Chicago  Board of Trade.  Lentils Output  India’s lentils output may climb to a record 18 million
tons in the year ending June 30, from 14.7 million tons a year
earlier, Basu said. That’s higher than farm ministry’s April 6
forecast of 17.3 million tons.  The country will announce the so-called fourth advance
estimate of the production of food grains from rice to corn by
July, which will include the revised wheat and lentils
projections, according to the farm ministry. Output may climb 8
percent to a record 235.88 million tons this year, the ministry
said April 6.  Rice production in the 2011-12 crop season may jump 8.3
percent to 102 million tons from 94.1 million tons this year as
an increase in the guaranteed prices for the crop paid to
farmers to a record and normal rain boost planting, Basu said.  The government on June 9 increased the minimum purchase
price of the so-called common variety of raw rice to an all-time
high of 1,080 rupees ($24) per 100 kilograms (220 pounds), from
1,000 rupees a year earlier.  Monsoon, which accounts for more than 70 percent of India’s
rainfall, may be 98 percent of the average, a level deemed
normal, the Indian Meteorological Department said in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  