-- 
World Bank Cuts Volume Expected, Value of Emission Credits for Its Funds

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-06-13T12:19:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/world-bank-reduces-volume-value-forecast-from-its-carbon-funds.html
The  World Bank  has reduced the
number and value of credits it expects from its carbon funds as
the  International Energy Agency  said fossil-fuel emissions are
threatening the climate.  The volume of emission reductions estimated to come from
signed agreements and projects in the pipeline as of 2010 fell
15 percent to 240 million metric tons of carbon dioxide
equivalent, according to  an annual report  on the bank’s website. 
A year earlier,  the bank expected cuts of 281 million tons.
Pipeline credits fell 40 percent to 32 million tons.  An unspecified number of agreements finished delivering
credits and weren’t extended, “several” were amended to cut
volumes, and “a few” were terminated “due to significant
delays in project commissioning,” the Washington-based bank
said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Energy consumption worldwide rose last year at the fastest
pace since 1973, driving greenhouse-gas emissions to a record,
 BP Plc (BP/)  said last week in its annual statistical report. Global
 carbon emissions  from electricity generation climbed to a record
last year as growth accelerated in emerging economies, the
International Energy Agency said May 31.  The bank is “working very hard” to deliver emission
reductions amid regulatory uncertainty, said Joelle Chassard,
manager of the bank’s carbon finance unit. “This is not an easy
task, but we are happy to see projects, even in difficult
sectors and using cutting-edge technologies, come to fruition,”
Chassard said in the report.  The bank didn’t immediately explain why credits in the
pipeline declined. The number of projects in the pipeline
dropped 43 percent to 27 from 47 a year earlier.  Value Drops  A failure to extend or replace the 1997  Kyoto Protocol ,
which has targets through next year, is boosting risks in the
carbon market and cutting investment, the World Bank’s Andrew Steer, special envoy on  climate change , said June 1.  The world may need to prepare for temperature increases of
4 degrees Celsius (7.7 Fahrenheit), and the U.S. Navy is
preparing for a 1.3-meter (5-foot) rise in sea levels, he said.  The value of the bank’s own signed emission-reduction
purchase agreements, known as ERPAs, declined 7.6 percent to
$1.7 billion, according to the report. The bank disclosed the
value of pipeline projects at $208 million a year ago. It didn’t
provide an estimate this year.  Total signed and active agreements fell to 128 from 133 a
year ago, the bank said. At the same time, its carbon-finance
unit signed about 20 new agreements during the year.  Banned Credits  It has about 12 funds in total, including the Umbrella
Carbon Facility, the Community Development Carbon Fund, the
Netherlands Clean Development Mechanism Facility and the Forest
Carbon Partnership Facility.  Some 61 percent of the bank’s expected credits are now
coming from projects that cut hydrofluorocarbon-23 gas, compared
with 57 percent a year ago, the annual-report data show. Those
credits were banned June 8 by the European Union starting in May
2013. East Asia and Pacific provide 77 percent of the bank’s
supply, compared with 72 percent a year ago.  The World Bank cut its estimate for future credits from
the  Middle East  and Africa to 5 percent, down from about 10
percent a year ago.  The bank’s Prototype Carbon Fund extended an agreement
until as late as 2023 to help govern the syndicate that includes
six governments and 16 companies.  ‘Diverging Interests’  “Diverging interests among PCF participants surrounding
the extension of the PCF instrument beyond 2014 were overcome to
reach a mutually beneficial solution,” said Martin Lawless,
chairman of the fund and London-based global head of
environmental financial products at  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   The fund’s accord was extended in December 2010 to the end
of the last signed emission-reduction purchase agreement, or
2023 at the latest, Lawless said in the 2010  annual report .  Governments including  Canada  and  Norway  and companies
ranging from BP Plc, Deutsche Bank and  RWE AG (RWE)  to Tokyo Electric
Power Co. can expect credits for the equivalent of 28.2 million
metric tons of carbon dioxide valued at $172.1 million from the
fund, which started in 2000 and now invests in 24 projects,
according to the report.  The fund accepted an additional $39 million in 2008,
“securing the possibility of purchasing late-vintage emission
reductions from projects already in its portfolio,” according
to the Carbon Finance Unit’s 2009  report . The fund was designed
to help demonstrate the ability of carbon markets to help
protect the climate and sustainable development.  The economic recession has trimmed countries’ demand for
emission credits.  The Netherlands said June 10 it doesn’t need
to buy any more carbon credits to meet climate targets by 2020.  “The present government’s policies put the country on
track to meet all its climate targets,” the government said on
its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  