-- 
Worst Drought in More Than a Century Strikes Texas Oil Boom

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-06-13T20:49:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/worst-drought-in-more-than-a-century-threatens-texas-oil-natural-gas-boom.html
The worst  Texas  drought since
record-keeping began 116 years ago may crimp an oil and natural-
gas drilling boom as government officials ration water supplies
crucial to energy exploration.  In the hardest-hit areas, water-management districts are
warning residents and businesses to curtail usage from rivers,
lakes and aquifers. The shortage is forcing oil companies to go
farther afield to buy water from farmers, irrigation districts
and municipalities, said Erasmo Yarrito Jr., the state’s
overseer of water supplies from the Rio Grande River.  Concern over water usage is especially acute in southern
Texas’s Eagle Ford Shale area because drilling there is more
water-intensive than other regions, said Robert Mace, a deputy
executive administrator of the Texas Water Development Board.  “It’s pretty dry down here and a lot of oil companies are
looking for water,” Mace said.  The water crisis in Texas, the biggest oil- and gas-
producing state in the U.S., highlights a continuing debate in
 North America  and  Europe  over the impact on water supplies of a
production technique called hydraulic fracturing. Environmental
groups are concerned the so-called fracking method may pose a
contamination threat, while farmers in arid regions like south
Texas face growing competition for scarce water.  Fracking-Led Boom  In fracking, drillers shoot high-pressure jets of sand- and
chemical-infused water into the ground to crack rock and release
trapped deposits of crude oil and gas. The technique has spurred
a new onshore drilling boom from British Columbia to  Poland  as
prospectors revisit geologic formations previously passed over,
said Robert Ineson, senior director of global gas at  IHS Inc. (IHS) ’s
Cambridge Energy Research Associates.  Along the Rio Grande River, where border towns such as
Laredo supply workers and equipment for the drilling boom, most
areas have received less than 2 inches (5 centimeters) of rain
since Oct. 1, the  National Weather Service  said.  To compensate,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is recycling fracking
fluids to reduce the amount of water needed for future drilling.
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  is replacing dirt roads leading to its
wells with limestone to preserve water that otherwise would be
used to keep down the dust.  Farmers, landowners, environmental activists and state oil
industry regulators gathered on June 10 at the University of
Texas Health Center in Laredo to discuss the potential impact of
fracking on water, air and public health, one of several such
meetings that have been held across the state this year.  13 Million Gallons  The Eagle Ford’s peculiar geology means it takes three to
four times as much water to fracture as the Barnett Shale near
 Fort Worth , said Mace, of the state water board. Fracking a
single Eagle Ford well requires as much as 13 million gallons of
water, enough to supply the cooking, washing and drinking needs
of 240 adults for an entire year, he said.  “This is not the drilling your grandparents knew in west
Texas,” said Sharon Wilson, an organizer for Earthworks’ Oil
and Gas Accountability Project, which lobbies for tougher
government regulation of oil drillers. “It’s a heavy industrial
activity with massive amounts of water and chemicals.”  About 94 percent of Texas was in a state of severe, extreme
or exceptional drought as of June 7, according to the  U.S.
Drought Monitor  compiled by the U.S. Agriculture Department and
the National Drought Mitigation Center. The  October-through-May
period  was the state’s driest since record-keeping began in
1895, said Texas State Climatologist John Nielsen-Gammon.  Waiting For Rain  Municipal water departments, farmers, ranchers and oil
drillers near Laredo are relying on water from two reservoirs
and underground aquifers filled by last summer’s tropical storm
season, said Yarrito, whose job title is  Rio Grande  Watermaster.  Unless storms bring more rain soon, “we’ll be in
trouble,” said Sonny Hinojosa, general manager of Hidalgo
Irrigation District No. 2 in  San Juan , Texas. The drought has
decimated crops, with about 79 percent of the state’s winter
wheat, 72 percent of its oats and 36 percent of its corn
classified as poor or very poor as of June 6, according to the
Agriculture Department in  Washington .  The Edwards Aquifer Authority, which oversees underground
water supplies around  San Antonio  and along the northern edge of
the Eagle Ford Shale, on June 2 declared a Stage 2 emergency
requiring a 30 percent cut in water usage. Other water districts
have imposed similar restrictions.  No Relief Coming  There’s no relief in sight, according to today’s forecast
from the National Weather Service. Temperatures across southern
Texas will reach 108 degrees Fahrenheit (42 degrees Celsius)
June 15 through June 19 and precipitation will remain below-
normal through June 27.  Water consumption by Eagle Ford Shale drillers is forecast
to explode during the next 25 years, Mace said. A study to be
released later this summer by the Texas Water Development Board
and the University of Texas’s Bureau of Economic Geology
estimates fracking-water demand in the area will jump 10-fold by
2020, and double again by 2030, he said.  Since  Petrohawk Energy Corp. (HK)  drilled the first discovery in
the Eagle Ford Shale in 2008, oil explorers have sought to gain
footholds in the 20,000 square-mile (51,800 square-kilometer)
formation. Exxon spent $34.9 billion last year to buy XTO Energy
Inc. to capture fracking expertise and U.S. assets including
Eagle Ford leases.  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  agreed on June 1 to pay
KKR & Co.-backed Hilcorp Resources Holding LP $3.5 billion for
assets in the area.  Buying Water  Anadarko and Houston-based  Swift Energy Co. (SFY)  are among the
companies buying water for fracking from Hidalgo Irrigation
District No. 2, which also supplies water to 400,000 acres of
sugar cane, cotton, peppers and cantaloupe, Hinojosa said. If
rain doesn’t arrive in the next four months to replenish the
reservoirs, Hinojosa said he’ll have to reconsider whether to
continue selling to the  oil companies .  Anadarko, based in The Woodlands, Texas, near Houston, said
it’s also buying water from the  Wintergarden Groundwater
Conservation District , which regulates the aquifer beneath three
counties in the heart of the Eagle Ford Shale. The company has
10 rigs operating in the Eagle Ford and plans to drill 200 wells
this year, R. Douglas Lawler, vice president of operations, said
at a UBS Securities LLC energy conference on May 25.  Water Monitors  Anadarko’s Eagle Ford wells were producing the equivalent
of 40,000 barrels of crude a day last month, Lawler said. The
company is installing meters to monitor and help manage water
usage on its wells, Brian Cain, an Anadarko spokesman, said.  Bruce Frasier, a farmer and rancher in Carrizo Springs,
Texas, about 40 miles northeast of the Rio Grande, has lost more
than half his cotton crop this year and reduced his cattle herd
to 300 from 1,000 because it’s too dry for grass to grow.  Frasier, whose family has been farming and ranching in
south Texas for 98 years, has refused to sell water to oil
companies that are offering 40 cents to 70 cents a barrel,
equivalent to 42 gallons. In 2008 before the first Eagle Ford
well was drilled, there was no market for a farmer’s water in
the area.  “I’ve got to have that water for my farming operation,”
said Frasier, whose Dixondale Farms is the largest cantaloupe
grower in Texas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 