-- 
WPP to Allocate 200 Million Pounds in 2011 on Acquisitions, Sorrell Says

-- B y   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-06-13T08:50:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/wpp-to-allocate-200-million-pounds-in-2011-on-acquisitions-sorrell-says.html
WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s biggest
advertising company, will more than double the amount it sets
aside this year for acquisitions to expand in faster-growing
emerging markets, Chief Executive Officer Martin Sorrell said.  WPP will allocate more than 200 million pounds ($325
million) this year on acquisitions, compared with a typical
annual budget of 100 million pounds in previous years, Sorrell
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television at the World
Economic Forum in Jakarta today. The company is seeking to
expand in “new media” such as the Internet, and in emerging
markets, he said.  Advertising companies are benefitting as companies increase
marketing spending following the economic slowdown. Dublin-based
WPP, the owner of ad agencies including Young & Rubicam, Ogilvy
& Mather and the Grey Group, this month boosted its full-year
sales forecast, helped by growth in  Asia ,  Latin America  and
 Africa . Sorrell said today he is “bullish” about growth
prospects in the advertising industry in 2011 and 2012.  “They’re really just targeting markets where the growth is
more attractive, where the demographics are younger, where there
should be some upside,” said Panmure Gordon & Co. analyst Alex De Groote. “The presence is already well established, it’s not
embryonic. What they’re doing is fleshing out that presence.”
De Groote has a “hold” rating on the stock.  WPP rose 0.3 percent to 730 pence as of 9:47 a.m. in London
trading. The stock has dropped 7.5 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 9.2 billion pounds.  Acquisitions  WPP is expected to post $2.5 billion in earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization this year, and is
seeking to expand in emerging markets including  Brazil , Russia,
 China  and  India , he said.  In the first four months, WPP made a number of small and
medium-sized acquisitions or increased stakes in companies based
in countries including the U.S., Netherlands, China and Korea.
WPP said this month it bought a 70 percent stake in F.biz, the
biggest independent digital advertising agency in Brazil.  Full-year like-for-like revenue will increase more than 6
percent in 2011, faster than budgeted, WPP said on June 2. Sales
in the first four months rose 6.2 percent, WPP said at the time.  “We feel pretty good” about WPP’s growth rate this year,
Sorrell said. Operations in Asia are helping to “pick up the
slack” from “less growth” in the U.S., he said.  WPP will aim to increase dividend payments as a proportion
of profit “over time,” and will also repurchase shares,
Sorrell said.  In 2012, the ad industry may get a boost from the London
Olympic and Paralympic Games as well as the UEFA Euro Football
Championships, while the  U.S. presidential election  may add as
much as $4 billion to the year’s media spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  