-- 
Zandi Says U.S. Growth Will Pick Up as Fuel Costs Moderate

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-06-13T18:47:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-13/zandi-says-u-s-growth-will-pick-up-as-fuel-costs-moderate.html
Economic growth in the U.S. will
probably pick up as energy prices recede and Japanese suppliers
of parts to U.S. factories recover from the earthquake and
tsunami in that country, said economist  Mark Zandi .  “The economy’s slowdown is transitory,” Zandi, chief
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
Pennsylvania, said today on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . Housing continues to
subtract from growth, Zandi said. While housing prices “are
still a bit high,” they are “close to fair value.”  Evidence of accelerating growth will probably bolster
confidence, Zandi said. “Businesses are extraordinarily
nervous,” he said.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 8 that a
“frustratingly slow” recovery warrants sustained monetary
stimulus while predicting that growth will gain speed in the
second half of the year.  “The economy is still producing at levels well below its
potential; consequently, accommodative monetary policies are
still needed,” Bernanke said.  A spate of recent economic data has shown weakness in the
economy. The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly increased to 9.1
percent in May, according to the Labor Department. Other reports
showed manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in more than a
year in May, and an index of home prices dropped in March to the
lowest level since 2003.  In its regional economic survey, the beige book, the Fed
reported last week its 12 district banks “indicated that
economic activity generally continued to expand” even as “a
few districts indicated some deceleration.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in Washington 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  