-- 
Madoff Repeat Odds Rise With Neutered Watchdog: Susan Antilla

-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 
2011-02-25T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/madoff-repeat-odd-rises-in-neutered-watchdog-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html
I don’t want to shock anyone, but I
think there’s a lot of cheating going on in Corporate America.  I’m not talking about the Enrons and Lehmans or the Madoffs
and Stanfords.  I’m wondering what else is going on that’s got the biggest
guns in finance and commerce apoplectic about a new whistle-
blower proposal.  Businesses are fighting full-tilt to defang a plan that
could make it easier to expose skeletons in the closet. That’s
not how people behave unless they’re hiding something.  In November, the Securities and Exchange Commission
published a  proposal  that would provide financial incentives to
whistle-blowers who have information about large financial
frauds. Along with bounties, the agency also proposed new
protections for snitches, who often lose their jobs once they
divulge what they know.  In the months since then, dozens of companies, business
groups and defense lawyers have barraged the SEC with
objections.  “This is the most intense corporate lobbying I’ve seen in
27 years,” says  Stephen M. Kohn , executive director at the
 National Whistleblowers Center . “They have to be afraid of
something.”  Among the provisions of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul
bill that became law last year was a bounty program to reward
whistle-blowers who had knowledge of substantial wrongdoing. If
an informant tipped off the SEC on a case that wound up yielding
$1 million or more in sanctions, the whistle-blower could
receive as much as 30 percent of the penalties.  Keep It Local  There are lots of things critics don’t like about the
proposal, but one detail puts them over-the-top: letting
whistle-blowers bypass a company’s internal tip program and go
straight to the SEC.  Opponents offer many reasons why that’s a bad idea. There’s
some nonsense about wanting to assist the SEC, given its limited
resources. There are concerns about greedy plaintiffs’ lawyers
who will inundate the agency with frivolous claims that
companies are best suited to weed out. Finally, there is the
estimable corporate goal to learn about misconduct pronto so
that management can clean things up. And if those greedy
whistle-blowers seeking bounties are hiking off to the SEC with
the dirt before the company can find out, how are virtuous
corporate citizens ever going to be able to do the right thing?  Hate Mail  That’s only part of the story. Some opponents of the
proposal told the SEC in a Dec. 7, 2010,   letter  that the agency
should amend its definition of retaliation to exclude cases
where a company’s rules instructed workers to use in-house
departments to report wrongdoing. Under that sort of scenario,
the employee who spilled the beans to a regulator, but not to
the company, could risk being fired for cause, and the company
might avoid being liable for retaliation.  Another idea that could pretty much shut things down for
whistle-blowers: Some critics of the SEC proposal want to bar
lawyers who represent whistle-blowers from being entitled to a
contingency fee based on any award. Good luck finding a lawyer
who doesn’t care about getting paid.  For all the corporate talk about the admirable clean-ups
that result when employees use internal compliance systems, real
life can fall short. A former  JPMorgan Chase & Co . broker sued
the firm on Feb. 14, alleging she was fired after giving her
bosses a report in which she suggested they “immediately exit
the relationship” with a client she suspected of  money
laundering , according to the complaint. Jennifer Sharkey alleged
that she submitted the report on July 30, 2009, and was fired
six days later.  Suing Your Employer  JPMorgan spokesman Douglas Morris said that Sharkey’s
related claims had previously been dismissed by both the U.S.
Department of Labor and the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of  New York  and that the bank has asked the court to
dismiss Sharkey’s recent complaint as well.  Her claims are only allegations, but if it turns out to be
true that she was the second-highest producer in her department,
but then was fired less than a week after suggesting the firm
dump a lucrative client, the timing sure will look funny.  In the whistle-blower community, people like Kohn see signs
that business will win this fight. Last week the SEC named Sean McKessy, corporate secretary for cigarette maker Altria Group
Inc. and a former SEC enforcement lawyer, to run its new
whistle-blower office. It was a disappointment to advocates who
hoped that a more experienced watchdog would get the job. “Even
if he’s the right man, it’s sending the wrong message,” Kohn
says.  WikiLeaks Option  Should the SEC cave to demands that informants be forced to
tell all to the company if they want to qualify for a bounty, it
will only be a short-term fix for business. “The more pressure
you put on the SEC to force people to report directly to the
company, the more likely these people will go to places like
WikiLeaks,” said Lynn E. Turner, former chief accountant at the
SEC.  It makes for great sound bites to yap about greedy
plaintiffs’ lawyers and frivolous whistle-blowers, but in the
end, it turns out some employees witness bad things and want to
see them fixed, not covered up.    Susan Antilla  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Susan Antilla in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  