-- 
AIG Says Risk Rose on Munis; Defaults May Limit Liquidity

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-02-25T21:10:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/aig-says-risk-of-losses-has-increased-on-46-6-billion-muni-bond-portfolio.html
  American International Group Inc .,
the bailed-out insurer, said it faces increased risk of losses
on its $46.6 billion municipal bond portfolio and that defaults
could pressure the company’s liquidity. The insurer declined as
much as 6.3 percent in New York trading.  “Because of the budget deficits that most states and many
municipalities are continuing to incur in the current economic
environment, the risks associated with this portfolio have
increased,” New York-based AIG said yesterday in its annual
report to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  AIG said that “several” issuers of bonds it holds have
been downgraded, amid budget pressures. As of Dec. 31, the
company had more than $700 million of state general-obligation
bonds from  California , which has the lowest Standard & Poor’s
credit rating of any U.S. state. It also held more than $200
million in the bonds from  Illinois .  “Defaults, or the prospect of imminent defaults, by the
issuers of state and municipal bonds could cause our portfolio
to decline in value and significantly reduce the portfolio’s
liquidity” at insurance subsidiaries, including property-
casualty insurer Chartis, the company said. Defaults “could
also adversely affect AIG parent’s liquidity” if the company
was required to bolster the units, the firm said.  Chartis’s portfolio has been reduced to about $36.3
billion, and 99 percent of the municipal holdings are rated A or
better, AIG Chief Financial Officer David Herzog said in a
conference call today with analysts.  ‘Quality Objectives’  AIG’s U.S. property-casualty companies are adding taxable
securities and reducing tax-exempt municipal bonds in their
portfolios to meet “liquidity, duration and quality
objectives,” according to the filing.  “The risk is real,” said Phillip Phan, professor at the
Johns Hopkins Carey Business School in Baltimore, in an
interview today. “They’re going to have to do a lot more
homework before they can quantify how bad the situation is.”  The insurer had said in its third-quarter filing in
November that it “does not expect any significant defaults in
portfolio holdings of municipal issuers over the near term.”  AIG dropped $1.89, or 4.7 percent, to $38.54 at 4:02 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The insurer has
declined about 20 percent this year, compared with a 4.9 percent
gain in the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index.  Fund Withdrawals  Investors pulled about $610 million from U.S. municipal-
bond mutual funds this week, the 15th-straight period of
outflows, according to Lipper U.S. Fund Flows. Withdrawals have
totaled $26.4 billion since mid-November, as states and local
governments grappled with budget deficits and rising pension
costs. Lipper is a Denver-based research company.  Justin Hoogendoorn, a bond strategist with BMO Capital
Markets in  Chicago , said he was surprised by AIG’s statement.
“What are they seeing that we’re not seeing?” he said.  From Jan. 18 through yesterday, tax-exempt investments have
returned 3.03 percent, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Municipal Master index, which accounts for price changes
and interest income.  “Since about mid-January, you’ve got a nice rebound in the
market,” Hoogendoorn said.  Travelers  AIG’s gross unrealized gains on the municipal bond
portfolio narrowed to $1.73 billion on Dec. 31 from $3.32
billion at the end of the third quarter, according to the
filing. Rival insurer Travelers Cos., which holds a $39.5
billion municipal portfolio, said last month that gross
unrealized gains on the securities  narrowed  to $1.6 billion from
 $2.8 billion  during the period.  The figures, reflecting market fluctuations that aren’t
counted toward earnings, are monitored by investors and rating
firms as a gauge of financial strength.  Property-casualty insurers buy municipal bonds with
policyholder premiums and hold the securities to pay future
claims. Travelers, the only insurer in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average , said this month its portfolio may face a higher risk of
defaults, which could result in investment losses and reduced
income.  “There are a number of things that you can be concerned
about at AIG, and this is one of them,” said  Cliff Gallant , an
analyst at KBW Inc., who has an “underperform” rating on the
stock.  AIG was rescued in 2008 after losses on securities tied to
home loans.  Robert Lewis , who stepped down as the company’s
chief risk officer last year, said the insurer had
underestimated the risk of subprime mortgages.  The insurer, which has repaid the  Federal Reserve , is
majority owned by the U.S. Treasury Department, which plans to
divest its shares. AIG said yesterday that fourth-quarter net
income was $11.2 billion as the company booked gains selling
businesses to help repay its rescue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  