-- 
Thailand’s Manufacturing Output Rebounds on Overseas Demand

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-02-25T09:32:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/thailand-s-manufacturing-output-rebounds-on-overseas-demand-1-.html
  Thailand ’s manufacturing output
rebounded aided by export growth, adding to the case for higher
borrowing costs to damp inflation.  The industrial production index rose 3.7 percent in January
from a year earlier,  the Office of Industrial Economics  said on
its website today. That compares with a revised 3.43 percent
contraction in December and the median estimate of 11 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey for a 4.1 percent expansion. The
revised December figure was calculated by Bloomberg News using
data from the agency, which only gave January’s growth rate.  The Bank of Thailand is poised to extend interest-rate
increases after saying inflation is a threat, as counterparts
from  China  to  India  also strive to damp jumps in the cost of
living. The economy will expand as much as 4.5 percent this year,
helped by 15 percent first-quarter export growth, according to
government forecasts.  “With such a strong print of exports in January, we expect
production to improve as well,” Pornthep Jubandhu, an economist
at Siam Commercial Bank Pcl in Bangkok, said before the release.
While manufacturing growth is set to moderate this year from
“exceptional” levels in 2010, the central bank has scope to
raise rates to 3.25 percent by year-end, Pornthep said.  The Thai central bank raised its benchmark rate for the
fourth time in seven months to 2.25 percent on Jan. 12.
Thailand’s economy strengthened last quarter on exports and  consumer spending , capping an annual expansion of 7.8 percent,
the fastest in 15 years.  Export growth accelerated to 22.3 percent in January from a
year earlier, compared with an 18.8 percent pace in December.  Hana Microelectronics Pcl , which produces parts for mobile
devices including Apple Inc.’s iPhone and Research in Motion
Ltd.’s BlackBerry, said Feb. 9 it may post record revenue this
year as demand for its electronics products remains strong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Tony Jordan  at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 