-- 
Taiwan May Impose 15% Tax on Home Sales to Curb Speculation

-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   A d e l a   L i n
-- 
2011-02-25T06:29:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/taiwan-may-impose-15-tax-on-home-sales-to-curb-speculation.html
  Taiwan  is considering a 15 percent
tax on homes sold within a year as it seeks measures to curb
speculation after home prices surged to a record last year. The
property stocks index fell the most in six months.  The tax, which will be imposed on investment properties and
not resident owners, will fall to 10 percent for homes sold
within two years, Chang Sheng-ford, Taiwan’s deputy  finance 
minister, said in a phone interview today. The proposal needs
 parliamentary approval , he said.  “These measures aim to curb short-term speculation in the
property segment,” Chang said. “They won’t affect long-term
investors or those buying real estate for their own dwellings.
Our target is to get parliamentary approval by June so that the
new rules will be implemented from January next year.”  Taiwan joins Asian markets including  Hong Kong ,  China  and  Singapore  as they roll out more restrictions to ease speculation
that has driven housing values higher. Taiwan’s home prices may
extend gains after last year’s record as previous curbs failed
to quell investors’ appetite for higher-yielding assets, CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets said.  “Current controls are ineffective,” said Frank Lin, a
Taipei-based analyst at CLSA. “The best tool to rein in
property prices and discourage speculation is through taxes, but
that will take time because it needs parliament’s approval.”  Property Shares Fall  The Taiex Construction Index, which tracks 36 developers
and construction companies, fell 3.9 percent at the close, the
worst-performer among 28 industry measures on the  Taiwan Stock
Exchange . The benchmark index gained 0.7 percent.  Farglory Land Development Co., the island’s biggest
developer, lost 4.2 percent to NT$64.60 and Cathay Real Estate
Development Co., the second-largest, dropped 4.9 percent to
NT$14.65, both at a six-month low.  “We believe that transaction on housing market will slow
down since the speculators may not buy new houses on concern
over the special taxes,” Capital Securities Corp. said in a
note to clients after the report. “The housing market may also
face sell-off for speculators are expected to sell their houses
to avoid the special taxes in the future.”  The brokerage also said the government may accelerate the
implementation of the property tax if home sales remain high. It
also said it’s turning “more conservative” on the island’s
housing industry in the near term.  Measures  The central bank in December tightened the cap on second-
home mortgages in Taipei to 60 percent from 70 percent imposed
in June, and broadened it to other districts, while also
limiting loans using land as collateral to 65 percent of the
real estate’s value. It raised its benchmark interest rate by
0.125 percentage point in June, September and December last year
from a record low of 1.25 percent.  The Economic Daily News reported the proposed tax earlier
today, citing ministry sources it didn’t identify.  Home price may increase by 10 percent to 15 percent in the
capital and its surrounding areas, Lin said. Pre-sale home
prices jumped 15.6 percent in 2010 to a record, while those in
the existing home market rose by 14.3 percent, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  