-- 
Al Jazeera Enrages Dictators, Wins Global Viewers With Coverage of Unrest

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-02-25T09:31:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/al-jazeera-enrages-dictators-wins-global-viewers-with-coverage-of-unrest.html
“Don’t believe those misleading dog
stations,” Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  said this week. He
wasn’t referring to CNN or the BBC.  Arab-owned television channels  Al Jazeera  and  Al Arabiya 
have been denounced by targets of the Middle Eastern revolts,
showing they’ve played a pivotal role in the uprisings that have
shaken countries from Tunisia and Egypt to  Libya  and Yemen.
Qaddafi called them the “biggest enemy.” In  Egypt ,  Al
Jazeera ’s Cairo bureau was shut down at the start of rallies
that led to the ouster of 82-year-old president  Hosni Mubarak .  Beaming images of the protests and interviewing key
participants, Al Jazeera in particular has moved from being
perceived as a Middle Eastern talk shop to a catalyst for
change. Although the Arabic- and English-language broadcaster
has sometimes acted like a participant rather than an observer
of the uprisings, it is winning praise in  Europe  and the U.S.,
which may help it extend its global reach.  “This is a bit of a breakthrough moment” for Al Jazeera,
said Charlie Beckett, the director of the Polis media research
unit at the  London School  of Economics.  Al Jazeera may gain credibility similar to that won by  Time
Warner Inc .’s then-novel CNN with its aggressive coverage of the
1991  Gulf War , Beckett said.  The channel, together with the Arabic-language only Al
Arabiya, has been influential enough to cause Qaddafi, 68, to
interrupt his hour-long, rambling televised speech on Feb. 22 to
criticize their real-time coverage of his remarks after he was
handed a note by an aide.  Changing Perceptions  Libyan state TV, meanwhile, shows regular footage of pro-
Qaddafi protesters denouncing Al Jazeera.  Human Rights Watch 
says at least 300 people have died in the 10 days since the
crackdown on protesters began in Libya.  Coverage of the protests by Al Jazeera, which is backed by
the Emir of Qatar, “is lifting people’s perceptions out of
their tribes and their nations and into the wider context of the
Middle East,” said Claire Enders, the founder of London media
consultancy Enders Analysis. “What’s happening now has a
galvanizing and very rapid effect.”  During the Cairo protests that eventually forced Mubarak
from power, Doha-based Al Jazeera’s correspondents routinely
said that as many as 2 million demonstrators were gathered in
the central Tahrir Square -- an estimate higher than the
hundreds of thousands cited by other media outlets.  CNN-Like  Al Jazeera’s greater role as a key source of information
from a region in the spotlight has meant balancing overt support
for demonstrators with claims of objectivity and ambitions to
displace  the British Broadcasting Corp.  as the region’s most
trusted voice for news.  Al Jazeera English, which began in 2006, broadcasts to more
than 220 million households in more than 100 countries. The
network’s English and Arabic services are gaining ground just as
rivals pull back.  The U.K.’s state-backed  BBC , which has broadcast in Arabic
by radio since 1938 and on television since 2008, in January
announced it would cut more than 400 jobs in its World Service
in response to government austerity measures.  Fresh regional competition, however, may arrive next year,
as U.K. pay-TV company  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc  plans
to start an Arabic-language news channel as part of a joint
venture with the Abu Dhabi Media Investment Corp.  Western Feel  Al Jazeera has seized its moment in the spotlight, taking
out ads in newspapers in the U.K., U.S. and  Canada  and
dispatching executives to write op-ed columns promoting its
coverage. Many of the journalists working for its English
service are veterans of the BBC or Canadian Broadcasting
Corporation, giving broadcasts a Western feel.  The network’s sometimes grisly footage has also found a
second life through social networks and  Google Inc .’s YouTube.  “That’s what people are cannibalizing on social networks,
not CNN,” said the LSE’s Beckett.  While they are more independent than the slavishly loyal
state TV channels in the Middle East, Al Jazeera and Al
Arabiya’s government ties have brought them scrutiny.  Dubai-based Arabiya this month suspended a popular news
show hosted by Egyptian journalist Hafez al Mirazy after he said
he’d use his next episode to discuss the impact of Egypt’s
uprisings on  Saudi Arabia . The next episode never aired.  ‘Informal Tool’  Meanwhile, U.S. diplomatic cables released by WikiLeaks
have suggested that Qatar’s ruling royal family has used Al
Jazeera’s Arabic channel as an  “informal tool”  of foreign
policy, offering to tweak coverage in exchange for favors.  Al Jazeera has contested that charge, with the network’s
director general, Wadah Khanfar, writing on its website that
“the Qatari government has kept its distance -- it is similar
to the kind of model one sees in other publicly funded, arm’s
length broadcasters such as the BBC.”  Skepticism of its objectivity and allegations of anti-
Israeli and American bias have long held back Al Jazeera in the
U.S. market, where it’s largely unavailable on cable systems
except in a few cities, such as Washington D.C.  The network on Feb. 23 delivered 13,000 emails from  Comcast
Corp . subscribers demanding that the cable provider carry Al
Jazeera, part of a wide effort to boost U.S. distribution. Al
Jazeera’s English website now features a way for U.S. residents
to send a form letter to cable providers.  U.S. Challenge  Still, Al Jazeera’s increased prominence in covering Arab
uprisings “may not be a fair test” of its ability to penetrate
the U.S. market, since they don’t involve the main issues --  Israel  and American military action -- on which its coverage has
been criticized, said Steve Shepard, the dean of the City
University of  New York ’s graduate school of journalism.  For that reason, the network’s difficulties finding U.S.
distribution “are not going to change that quickly,” he said.  Even if the uptake of Al Jazeera in the U.S. is gradual,
the network’s American reach has come a long way since former
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld described its reporting as
“vicious, inaccurate, and inexcusable.”  During meetings on the Egyptian uprisings at the White
House last month, advisers watched two TV feeds in parallel:  CNN 
and Al Jazeera.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 