-- 
Manchester Airport Would Consider Bid for BAA’s London Stansted

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-02-25T17:56:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/manchester-airport-would-consider-bid-for-baa-s-london-stansted.html
Manchester Airport, the U.K.’s
busiest hub outside  London , may consider bidding for BAA Ltd.’s
Stansted, Edinburgh or Glasgow airports if the company decides
to sell them.  BAA, owner of London’s Heathrow, will likely have to sell
Stansted and either Edinburgh or Glasgow airport after the
U.K.’s Supreme Court on Feb. 17 refused to hear an appeal of a
antitrust decision. The  Competition Commission , which ordered
the breakup of BAA in March 2009, is currently assessing whether
the original judgment should still hold.  Manchester Airport failed in a bid to buy Gatwick, the
U.K.’s second-busiest airport, after BAA put it up for sale
under pressure from regulators. The hub was sold to Global
Infrastructure Partners in December 2009.  “If Stansted, Edinburgh and Glasgow came up we would
definitely have a look,” Charlie Cornish, chief executive
officer of Manchester Airports Group, said today by phone.
“Like all acquisitions they’ve got to deliver value for
shareholders.”  Manchester Airports, privately managed on behalf of its
owners, the 10 boroughs of Greater Manchester, had revenue of
320 million pounds ($515 million) this year.  The airport operator, which also owns the East Midlands,
Bournemouth and Humberside hubs, is aiming to increase the
proportion of low-cost carriers that use its airports from about
10 percent. The company handled about 22.8 million passengers
last year, and is aiming to boost that by 2 percent to 4
percent.    Consumer confidence  isn’t as good as you’d like it to be
but it’s holding up,” said Cornish, who joined the company in
October from United Utilities Group Plc. “We are expecting to
see growth right across the piece.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  