-- 
Manchester United, Glazer Family Rule Out Sale Amid Talk of Qatari Bid

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-02-25T12:35:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/manchester-united-rules-out-sale-amid-talk-of-qatari-bid-1-.html
  Manchester United ’s board reacted to
reports linking the club to Qatari royalty by stating that its
current owners, the U.S.-based Glazer family, are “fully
committed’ long-term proprietors of the club, which has won the
English championship 18 times.  Reports have appeared on an almost weekly basis linking
Qatar Holdings with a bid for the team. The Daily Mail yesterday
said the Middle East group was planning a fresh 1.5 billion-
pound ($2.4 billion) offer for the team, which the Glazers
bought for 790 million pounds in a 2005 leveraged buyout.  ‘‘The owners remain fully committed to their long-term
ownership of the club,’’ Manchester United said in a statement
released alongside quarterly results for MU Finance Plc, a
subsidiary of the club. ‘‘No discussions have taken place,
Manchester United is not for sale and the owners will not
entertain any offers.’’  The message is the latest in a series of denials by the
Glazer family that it wants to maintain its ownership of the
club. It issued a similar statement to bondholders in May
following a season when some of the club’s supporters began a
concerted campaign to force them out.  The Glazers, who also own the  National Football League ’s  Tampa Bay Buccaneers , stoked anger among supporters by loading
debt on to the English club to help pay for the purchase. Debts
associated with the takeover, which were once as high as 850
million pounds, have fallen to 489.4 million pounds, according
to the figures released today. In November the owners paid off
220 million pounds of payment-in-kind loans that accrued
interest of 16.25 percent.  Revenue Doubles  The club’s revenue has more than doubled under the Glazers.
Sales grew by 7.1 percent to 93.2 million pounds, in the three
months ended Dec. 31. Much of the growth came from a 33 percent
increase in commercial revenue to 25.5 million pounds. Matchday
and media sales were little changed.  The team’s commercial operation, which is headed by London-
based former  JPMorgan Chase & Co . banker Edward Woodward,
generated 95.9 million pounds year-on-year, the team said.  Manchester United replaced a 500 million-pound  bank loan 
with a bond last year. Speculation about a possible sale raised
the price of the sterling-denominated 8.75 percent notes to a
record 111.44 pence on Feb. 15, taking their gain since Feb. 8
to 5.28 percent, according to generic prices on Bloomberg. They
traded at 108.25 pence today.  The club’s cash reserves have swelled thanks to the
continuing growth in its day-to-day business activities and the
record 80 million-pound sale of winger  Cristiano Ronaldo  to Real  Madrid  in 2009. The club today announced it used some of that
cash to buy 24 million pounds of its bonds in the second
quarter. The notes haven’t been retired.  ‘‘The senior secured notes may be sold back to the market
in the future depending on the capital and operating
requirements of the business,” United said. The club has a cash
balance of 134.5 million pounds.  United, which currently tops the Premier League, has won
three league titles and the 2008 Champions League since the
Glazers bought the team. Forbes Magazine estimated its market
value at $1.8 billion. United visits Wigan tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  