-- 
Anglo American Board to Have No Oppenheimer for First Time Since Founding

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-02-25T14:44:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/anglo-american-board-to-have-no-oppenheimer-for-first-time-since-founding.html
  Anglo American Plc , whose mines made  South Africa  the continent’s biggest economy, said Nicky Oppenheimer will leave the company, making it the first time a
member of the family hasn’t sat on the board since they created
the business in 1917.  “Anglo American has been in the psyche of every member of
my family since the company was founded nearly a century ago,”
Oppenheimer, 65, said in a statement today. “There comes a time
when it is right to stand aside.” He was on Anglo’s board for
about 37 years and is sub-Saharan  Africa ’s richest man,
according to Forbes.com.  Anglo was founded by Nicky’s grandfather, Ernest
Oppenheimer, to exploit the world’s biggest gold field, the
Witwatersrand near Johannesburg. In 1929 he also took control
of  De Beers , later making it the world’s biggest diamond
business and linking it to Anglo through cross-shareholdings
between the companies.  His son, Harry, took over as chairman in 1957 and led the
expansion into South African banking, steel, sugar and paper as
the country’s isolation during apartheid stopped the company
buying mines elsewhere. Nicky never served as Anglo’s chairman,
taking the post of deputy chairman from 1983 to 2001.  The company moved its headquarters to London in 1999 to
make it easier to raise money as it expanded abroad.  Cynthia Carroll reorganized management after being named
chief executive officer in 2007. She advanced the strategy of
her predecessor, Tony Trahar, selling assets from sugar to paper
to focus on copper,  iron ore , nickel and other raw materials
demanded by the expanding economies of China and  India .  ‘End of an Era’  “It’s the end of an era,”  David Davis , a mining analyst
at SBG Securities Ltd., a unit of Africa’s biggest lender
Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in an interview from
Johannesburg. Davis has been involved in the local  mining
industry  for more than three decades. “Over the years the
Oppenheimers have shifted away from South Africa and Anglo.”  The Oppenheimer family sold about 64 million pounds ($100
million) of Anglo shares in December, leaving their stake in the
company at about 1.9 percent. In 2006, they sold 1.13 percent of
Anglo to billionaire Larry Yung’s  China  Vision Resources for
about $803 million. The family held a 7.2 percent stake in 2001.  “The interests of the family and the interests of Anglo
are possibly no longer as solid as the family would like,”
Liston Meintjes, former chief investment officer of Metropolitan
Asset Managers, said by phone from  Cape Town  today.  Committed to Diamonds  Nicky Oppenheimer remains chairman of De Beers, a position
he has held since 1998. His family owns 40 percent of the
Johannesburg-based company while Anglo owns 45 percent. De Beers
is expanding in  Canada  while disposing of aging mines in South
Africa and gets most of its output from a venture in Botswana.  Together with his family he has an estimated net worth of
$5 billion, according to a March 2010 report by  Forbes.com .
Nicky Oppenheimer told De Beers staff today that his decision to
leave Anglo “has nothing to do with his family’s commitment to
De Beers,” the diamond company said in an e-mailed response to
a query.  Anglo doesn’t plan to change the ownership structure of De
Beers, Carroll told reporters last week.  London ’s Sunday Times
reported in December that Anglo may buy the Oppenheimer family
out of the diamond company for at least 2 billion pounds.  Nicky Oppenheimer was educated at Harrow School and Christ
Church, Oxford, where he read politics, philosophy and
economics, according to the family’s  Brenthurst Library  website.
His son Jonathan has held positions at Anglo.  Together with his wife,   Strilli , he supports wildlife and
conservation projects, according to the website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  