-- 
Angry Irish Set to Ditch Government in ‘Historic’ Election

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-02-25T15:55:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/angry-irish-voters-prepare-to-ditch-governing-party-in-historic-election.html
Irish voters go to the polls today,
with anger over the collapse of the economy and the cost of
rescuing banks expected to result in the biggest shift of
political power in the country’s history.  Enda Kenny’s Fine Gael will emerge as the biggest party and
may form a government with the  Labour Party  or the support of
independent lawmakers, polls suggest. Fianna Fail, which
dominated Irish politics for eight decades and has governed
since 1997, faces its worst-ever election after Ireland resorted
to an 85 billion-euro ($117 billion) bailout in November.  “This election is being fought on economic issues of
historic importance,” said  Dermot O’Leary , chief economist at  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in Dublin. “These are not going to be
just issues for this election but for a number of elections.”  Voting starts across the country of 4.5 million people at 7
a.m. and ends at 10 p.m. to fill the 166-seat parliament in
Dublin, called the Dail. Counting begins tomorrow, and the first
indications of the result will come at 8 a.m. when state
broadcaster  RTE  publishes an exit poll.  Voter turnout in Dublin City was 30 percent by 3 p.m.,
according to an e-mailed statement. Irish voters elect
candidates in a proportional representation system, which means
that a voter can list candidates by preference in multi-seat
constituencies.  Ruined  “It is a lovely little country,” said Sylvia McDougall,
53, speaking outside the St. Andrew’s polling station in central
Dublin today. “But it has been ruined.”  Support for Fine Gael stands at 40 percent, according to a
Red C poll published on Feb. 23 by  Paddy Power Plc , compared
with 15 percent for Fianna Fail, which has governed for three of
every four years since winning its first election in 1932 and
has averaged about 45 percent support in general elections.  “I was always a Fianna Fail supporter, a die-hard,” said
Charlie Scullion, 53, a government worker in Dublin. “Not now.
They abandoned the people, the country. I’ll vote for an
independent candidate in the election.”  Lawmakers not affiliated to any party drew support from 14
percent of likely voters, according to the poll of 1,500 people
between Feb. 19 and Feb. 22. Right now, a coalition between Fine
Gael and Labour, which drew 18 percent support in the poll, is
the most likely outcome, according to odds offered by Paddy
Power, Ireland’s biggest bookmaker.  Overall Majority  Fine Gael could achieve an overall majority for the first
time in the party’s history, Glas Securities Ltd., the Dublin-
based fixed-income firm, said in a note this morning.  “You shouldn’t take a chance depending on a few
independents who might let you down,” said Garret FitzGerald,
who served two terms as Irish prime minister in the 1980s. “You
are better off with a large majority to do the things that are
necessary. I would think Enda Kenny might share that view.”  The new government will inherit an economy that has shrunk
around 15 percent since the end of 2007 while unemployment has
tripled to a rate of 13.4 percent. A net 100,000 people will
leave the country in the two years through April 2012, the
Dublin-based Economic & Social Research Institute said in its
most recent quarterly report last month.  The  European Central Bank  and Irish Central Bank are
propping the financial system with about 140 billion euros, and
the government was last year forced to seek a bailout from the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund  after it was
locked out of the bond markets.  Renegotiating Deal  Fine Gael leader Kenny, 59, said this week his priority
will be to renegotiate the 5.8 percent interest rate on the
bailout. The party has said it may seek European agreement to
share the burden of rescuing the country’s financial system with
senior bank bondholders.  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said on Feb. 15 there is “no appetite” for imposing losses on
senior bondholders at Irish banks.  “There is a lot of smart constituency politician about
Kenny, very skilled at maneuvering in a small pond, but I am not
so sure those talents will be so useful on the bigger arena in  Europe ,” said Peadar Kirby, a professor of politics and public
policy at the  University of Limerick  in western Ireland. “This
will be an absolutely dramatic election.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast News at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  