-- 
Marine Power ’Turns Corner’ as Utilities Invest, U.K. Trust Say

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-02-25T07:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/marine-power-turns-corner-on-increased-investments-u-k-trust-says.html
Wave and tidal energy are set to
take off as utilities including  Germany ’s  E.ON AG ,  Iberdrola
SA ’s Scottish Power unit and Sweden’s Vattenfall AB step up
investment in the new industry, the U.K.’s  Carbon Trust  said.  The first commercial-scale plants should be producing power
from the U.K.’s waves and tides within four years, with a total
generating capacity of 100 to 200 megawatts possible by 2020,
according to Benj Sykes, director of innovations at the
government-funded advocate for low-carbon energy generation.  “The utilities that will ultimately be needed to get this
up and running are starting to get involved,” Sykes said today
in an interview in  London . “The industry is turning a corner.”  The U.K. is betting on marine energy to help reduce its
dependence on fossil fuels, cut  carbon emissions  and develop a
domestic manufacturing industry that exports to other markets.
The technology can potentially power 15 million homes by 2050,
the Department of Energy and Climate Change said last year.  The  Crown Estate , which administers most of the U.K. seabed
on behalf of the monarchy, in March awarded 10 contracts to
companies including E.ON, Vattenfall, Scottish Power, France’s  EDF SA  and Germany’s  Siemens AG  to develop up to 1.2 gigawatts
of wave and tidal power in Scotland, enough for 700,000 homes.  The technologies still face the challenge of moving beyond
prototypes to commercially viable devices. Wave power is more
than six times more expensive to generate than electricity from
coal and gas, and tidal power is about five times more costly
than fossil fuel alternatives, according to levelized cost of
energy data from Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “First we need to prove the technology, and then we’ve got
to drive the costs down,” Sykes said. “We can do that by using
new materials, developing new types of generating systems, and
new ways of deploying the devices.”  Investment Incentive  The Carbon Trust has tried to pick leading technologies in
the industry and help bring them to market, according to Sykes.
A total of 22.5 million pounds ($36 million) of government money
the trust has pledged to  six wave and tidal companies  sparked an
extra 42 million pounds of private investment, Sykes said.  The companies receiving funding from the Carbon Trust’s
Marine Renewable Proving Fund are Atlantis Resources Corp.,
which is part-owned by  Morgan Stanley , Aquamarine Power,
Hammerfest Strom AS, Marine Current Turbines, Pelamis Wave Power
Ltd. and Voith Hydro Gmbh.  “There were quite a lot of investors in these projects who
were reluctant to spend because of the risk,” Sykes said. “We
came in with funding and reduced the risk. That freed up a lot
of money that was sitting in people’s pockets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 