-- 
Asian Stocks Decline This Week as Oil Price Soars on Unrest in Middle East

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-02-25T22:43:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/asian-stocks-decline-this-week-as-oil-price-soars-on-unrest-in-middle-east.html
Asian stocks fell this week amid
concern instability in the Middle East and North Africa may
derail a global economic rebound, reversing gains last week on
signs the recovery was strengthening.  Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co., which gets 38
percent of sales from the Middle East, sank 6.2 percent in Seoul.  Qantas Airways Ltd .,  Australia ’s largest airline, slumped 6.3
percent in Sydney and Air  China  Ltd. tumbled 14 percent in  Hong
Kong  as unrest in  Libya  drove fuel prices above $100 a barrel
for the first time in two years. Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s
largest carmaker, fell 3.4 percent in Tokyo.  “Share prices will have a tough time rebounding as long as
investors have their eyes on the risks stemming from the
uncertainty in the Middle East,” said Kenji Sekiguchi, general
manager at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which oversees
about $75 billion.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 2.1 percent to 136.86
this week as Middle East rulers attempted to contain uprisings
that have overthrown leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt  and spread to
Bahrain, Yemen and Libya. That rolled back last week’s 3 percent
gain after U.S. and Japanese central banks raised their growth
outlooks and companies posted better-than-estimated earnings.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225  Stock Average fell 2.9 percent this
week; Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 2 percent; while South
Korea’s Kospi Index and Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index sank 2.5
percent. China’s Shanghai Composite Index retreated 0.7 percent.  Middle East Uncertainty  “There’s uncertainty about what’s going on in the Middle
East,” said Yasushi Noguchi, a strategist in Tokyo at SMBC
Friend Securities Co. “Investors will increasingly be taking a
wait-and-see stance.”  Hyundai Engineering slumped 6.2 percent to 75,500 won in  Seoul . Samsung Engineering Co., which won contracts in Bahrain
and Saudi Arabia this month, dropped 4.6 percent to 187,500 won.
Chiyoda Corp., a contractor that gets almost half of its income
from the Middle East, sank 4.5 percent to 721 yen in Tokyo.  Airline stocks and carmakers slumped as oil traded near the
highest in more than two years amid concern crude supplies will
be disrupted by the turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa.  Early in the week, Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi vowed to
fight a growing rebellion in a country that holds Africa’s
largest oil reserves until his “last drop of blood.” The
leader’s position weakened after a close adviser abandoned him,
opponents consolidated their control of the country’s oil-rich
east, and  Switzerland  froze some of his assets.  Qaddafi responded by reinforcing his defenses in and around
the capital, Tripoli, with tanks and mercenaries.  Airlines, Carmakers Drop  Qantas plunged 6.3 percent to A$2.38 in Sydney as the risk
of higher fuel prices curbed the earnings outlook for airlines.
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. sank 9.6 percent to HK$17.70 in Hong
Kong.  Air China Ltd ., the world’s biggest carrier by market
value, tumbled 14 percent to HK$7.04. Toyota fell 3.4 percent to
3,755 yen in Tokyo.  “We’re having a natural reaction to the unrest with oil
going above $100,” Todd Martin,  Societe Generale ’s Asia equity
strategist, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in Hong
Kong this week.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index is little changed this year.
The price of stocks in the gauge fell to an average of 13.7
times estimated earnings on Feb. 24, the lowest level since
September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 