-- 
Stocks Gain as Consumer Confidence Beats Forecasts

-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-02-25T22:12:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/asian-stocks-snap-four-day-decline-aussie-won-strengthen-as-oil-retreats.html
Stocks advanced, preventing the
biggest weekly drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since
August, after a measure of U.S.  consumer confidence  beat
forecasts. The Swiss franc fell from a record versus the dollar.  The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares in 45 nations
rose 1.1 percent at 5 p.m. New York time. The S&P 500 gained 1.1
percent after slumping 2.8 percent during the previous three
days. The franc slid 0.2 percent against the dollar after
touching 92.27 centimes earlier. Rice and cotton advanced by
their daily limit.  Confidence among American consumers, whose purchases
account for about 70 percent of the world’s biggest economy,
increased more than forecast in February to the highest level in
three years, according to a Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan index. While U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a
slower-than-forecast rate in the fourth quarter, growth
excluding inventories was the fastest since 1998.  “It’s a drumbeat of good economic reports,” said Madelynn Matlock, who helps oversee $14.4 billion at Huntington Asset
Advisors in Cincinnati. “Looking forward, it all depends on
what happens with risk-prone areas such as the Middle East and
inflation. At this stage, however, I don’t see why the stock
market can’t continue to go up. Valuation isn’t bad and the
economy is doing well.”  Stocks, Oil  Equities rebounded yesterday, trimming the S&P 500’s daily
loss to 0.1 percent, after oil declined and reports showed
jobless claims fell and consumer confidence increased. The  S&P
500  had posted the biggest two-day slide in six months as crude
extended its surge since Feb. 15 to 16 percent after Libyan
protests intensified.  Boeing Co. rose as much as 5 percent today, the most since
July, after its surprise win in the U.S. Air Force tanker
program kept the 767 jet alive and eased the sting from months
of delays on two marquee airliners.  Volkswagen AG surged 6.2 percent as the maker of Beetle
cars said increased sales in China drove a sevenfold surge in
profit last year. Telecom Italia SpA gained 5.2 percent after  Italy ’s largest phone company forecast that its dividend will
increase at an annual pace of 15 percent through 2013.    London Stock Exchange Group Plc  opened more than four hours
late days after moving to a new electronic system, mirroring a
technical fault that halted its Italian market this week.  Other Outages  LSE moved its main market to the MillenniumIT platform on
Feb. 14 after three months of delays. Turquoise, the first of
the exchange’s markets to make the change, had glitches on its
first day of trading in October and the next day was forced to
postpone the market open. Today’s outage follows Feb. 22’s 6
1/2-hour delay to the start of trading on the Italian stock
exchange, which is owned by LSE and runs its old system.  The Swiss franc fell against most of its major counterparts
as concern eased that the political turmoil in  Libya  will
disrupt global oil markets, reducing the appeal of the currency
as a haven. The yen gained against the dollar for an eighth day,
the longest winning streak this year.  The franc depreciated 0.2 percent to 92.82 centimes per
dollar after earlier reaching 92.27 centimes, the strongest
level since at least 1971, when Bloomberg records begin. The
Swiss currency rose 0.1 percent to 1.2768 per euro. The dollar
gained 0.3 percent versus the euro to $1.3754. The yen rose 0.3
percent to 81.68 per dollar and strengthened 0.6 percent to
112.35 per euro.  U.K. Shrinks  The pound fell against the dollar and reached its weakest
level this month versus the euro after the U.K. economy shrank
more than estimated, prompting investors to reduce bets on
higher  interest rates . Sterling dropped 0.1 percent to $1.6118,
declining for a second day.  Rice, the staple food for half the world, rallied by the
daily limit following a four-day losing streak in Chicago as
governments boosted stockpiles to curb prices that sparked
protests in North Africa and the Middle East. Rice for May
delivery rose 50 cents, or 3.6 percent, to $14.31 per 100 pounds
at 11:45 a.m. on the  Chicago  Board of Trade. The grain climbed
8.5 percent in January.  Rice traded in Chicago has gained 48 percent since the end
of June, part of a surge in agriculture prices that the  United
Nations  says drove world food prices to a record last month.
Costs jumped as floods from  Canada  to  Australia  and droughts in  China  and  Russia  ruined crops.  The grain represents almost 50 percent of food costs of the
poorest across the developing world and 20 percent of total
household spending, according to the International Rice Research
Institute, based in Los Banos, the  Philippines . In the U.S., 6
percent of incomes are spent on groceries, data from Euromonitor
International show.  Cotton futures jumped the most allowed by ICE Futures U.S.
on speculation that global supplies will continue to trail
demand. Contracts for May delivery climbed by the exchange
maximum of 7 cents, or 3.9 percent, to $1.8423.  To contact the reporters on this story
Nick Baker in New York at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 