-- 
Assured Says It May Sell Debt If Needed to Avoid Downgrade

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-02-25T19:28:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/assured-may-sell-debt-if-s-p-changes-leave-insurer-with-capital-shortfall.html
  Assured Guaranty Ltd ., the bond
insurer facing a potential cut in its credit ratings under
proposed changes by  Standard & Poor’s , said it may sell debt to
bolster capital if doing so would prevent a downgrade.  The company, the nation’s lone municipal bond insurer since
rivals including  MBIA Inc . were shut out of the market, would
first seek to terminate financial guarantees that require high
levels of capital, Chief Executive Officer Dominic Frederico
said today in a conference call. Those could include guarantees
tied to commercial mortgage-backed securities or infrastructure
financing outside the U.S., he said.  After that, the Hamilton, Bermuda-based company “would
have to test debt markets to see if there is an economic or
efficient way of providing capital,” Frederico said. The last
preference would be to raise common equity, he said.  A new leverage test S&P is proposing to add to its ratings
criteria would leave Assured units short of about $1.9 billion
of capital needed to maintain a rating in the AA tier, Frederico
said this month in a separate conference call criticizing the
plan. Another proposed modification in modeling how a company
would hold up under economic stress could leave Assured between
$1 billion and $1.5 billion short, he said.  Losing AAA  S&P, which is accepting comments and considering whether to
alter the proposal, is changing its ratings criteria after the
two biggest bond insurers, MBIA and  Ambac Financial Group Inc .,
and most others lost their top AAA ratings in 2008 and were cut
to below investment-grade within a year. The capital needed to
win “high investment-grade ratings will increase significantly
under the proposed criteria,” S&P said last month.  Among the biggest changes is the leverage test, which
assesses a bond insurer’s risk from guaranteeing debt relative
to how much capital it holds. The new criteria would act as a
“weak-link filter” to identify potential problems that aren’t
picked up under other reviews, according to S&P.  Assured shares dropped the most in a month today after the
company reported a net loss of $157.5 million attributed largely
to the performance of debt backed by home loans. The stock
declined 86 cents, or 5.6 percent, to $14.52 as of 2:20 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. It’s down 18 percent
this year.  The loss came in part because the pace of declines in home-
loan delinquencies slowed. In addition, the severity of losses
associated with defaulted subprime mortgages increased, the
company said in a statement yesterday. Those items plus a
narrowing of the gap between what the company pays out on
insured securities and what the underlying mortgages pay in
interest, increased losses by about $270 million, Chief
Financial Officer Robert Mills said on the call today.  ‘Scary’ Severities  “As we look at our subprime book, first-lien severities
are scary,” Frederico said on the call today, attributing it to
expenses that exceed the cost of certain individual loans.
Assured has seen about 200 loans where losses were between 130
and 150 percent of the underlying mortgage, Frederico said,
including a $187,000 loan on which the insurer was charged a
$293,000 loss.  The fourth-quarter net loss of 86 cents a share compares
with profit of $216.7 million, or $1.27 a share, a year earlier,
the company said.  Operating income, which excludes items including unrealized
market value gains or losses on  credit derivatives , was $152.9
million, or 81 cents a share, compared with $156.4 million, or
92 cents, a year earlier. The average estimate for adjusted
earnings per share in a Bloomberg survey was for 86 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  