-- 
Australia Beats New Zealand at Cricket World Cup; Bangladesh Tops Ireland

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-02-25T16:15:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/australia-beats-new-zealand-at-cricket-world-cup-bangladesh-tops-ireland.html
  Mitchell Johnson  got his second
straight four-wicket haul as defending champion  Australia  beat
New Zealand by seven wickets at the Cricket World Cup.  Australia, posting its record-extending 25th straight
victory at the tournament dating back to 1999, dismissed the
Black Caps for 206, with Johnson claiming 4-33. Openers Shane Watson (62) and  Brad Haddin  (55) then eased Australia’s path to
victory by putting on 133 for the first wicket in Nagpur, India.  Australia’s second straight victory to open the tournament
moves it to the top of Group A.  “Things are going along nicely, but I think we still have
room for improvement,” Australia captain Ricky Ponting said in
the post-match ceremony. “I think that will come as the
tournament goes along.”  Bangladesh earned its first victory by beating Ireland by
27 runs in today’s Group B game. Shafiul Islam claimed four
wickets for  Bangladesh .  New Zealand wickets fell at regular intervals and the team
was in danger of collapse as it teetered at 73-6 at one stage.
Nathan McCullum’s 52 and captain Daniel Vettori’s 44 pushed the
score beyond 200. Johnson, who took 4-19 in Australia’s win over
Zimbabwe, was supported by Shaun Tait’s 3-35.  “It was a disappointing performance with the bat,”
Vettori said. “Being bowled out for 200 is not enough to win
international games, especially against a team like Australia.”  First Out  Haddin was first out, caught by James Franklin from Hamish
Bennett, who also dismissed Watson three balls later. After
Ponting departed for 12, Michael Clarke (24) and Cameron White
(22) guided Australia to the victory target of 207.  “It was nice to be able to start off as we did,” Watson
said. “It all worked out very nicely for us today.”  A minute’s silence in memory of the victims of this week’s
earthquake in Christchurch,  New Zealand , was held before the
start of play. Both teams also wore black armbands.  New Zealand drops to fourth place after suffering its first
loss. The top four teams from each of the seven-team groups
advance to the quarterfinals after a round-robin competition.  Australia fast bowler  Doug Bollinger  will return home with
pain in his left ankle that’s bothered him since the team’s
arrival in India, Cricket Australia said in a statement. A
replacement has yet to be named.  Bangladesh, led by Tamin Iqbal’s 44, rebounded from an
opening loss to India before the home fans in Mirpur.  Raqibul Hasan added 38 as Bangladesh totaled 205 with four
balls remaining in its 50 overs. Islam then took 4-21 in
Ireland’s 178 all out.  Pakistan and Sri Lanka meet tomorrow in a Group A game in
Colombo. The tournament, co-hosted by  India , Bangladesh and Sri
Lanka, ends April 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 Tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 