-- 
Bangladesh to Boost Food Security, Minister Says

-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 
2011-02-28T13:06:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/bangladesh-to-boost-food-reserves-as-people-are-suffering-minister-says.html
(Corrects  Bangladesh  population in ninth paragraph of story
first published on Feb. 25.)  Bangladesh, South Asia’s biggest
rice buyer, is in talks with India to buy grains on a regular
basis to bolster  food security  as governments seek to avoid a
repeat of the unrest that broke out when prices last soared.  A long-term agreement will protect Bangladesh from possible
defaults by private traders, who sometimes fail to meet their
commitments if prices gain, Muhammad Abdur Razzaque, the
nation’s food minister, said in an interview yesterday. “Rice
prices rose this year in our country; people are suffering as
they have limited income,” Razzaque said by phone from Dhaka.  Bangladesh’s plan underscores a drive by governments to
strengthen their reserves to help manage the impact of food
prices that advanced to a record last month, beating the jump in
2008 that spawned riots from  Haiti  to  Egypt . This year’s surge
has driven millions into extreme poverty, according to the World
Bank, and contributed to unrest in the Middle East and  Africa .  “When we go for international tenders and prices suddenly
rise, private suppliers sometimes fail to fulfill their
commitments,” Razzaque said. “They don’t supply us and put us
in trouble. It has happened.”  Wheat, corn, soybeans and palm oil have surged in the past
year on increased demand and supply disruptions, driving the
Food & Agriculture Organization’s World Food Price Index to an
all-time high in January. The jump has boosted inflation, adding
to the case for higher  interest rates  worldwide as central banks
also contend with rising oil prices spurred by a revolt in  Libya .  ‘Eminent Sense’  “It’s definitely crucial for Bangladesh and it makes
eminent sense for India,” said  Atul Chaturvedi , chief executive
officer of Adani Wilmar Ltd., the nation’s biggest farm-goods
trader. Neighboring  India  has a surplus of rice, while
Bangladesh has a deficit, Chaturvedi said by phone today.  India’s rice output may increase to 94.01 million metric
tons in the year to June 30 from 89.1 million tons, the
agriculture ministry said on Feb. 9. State warehouses held 27.8
million tons of rice on Feb. 1.  Higher commodity prices are “leading to riots,
demonstrations and political instability,”  Nouriel Roubini , the
New York University professor who predicted the financial crisis,
said last month. Costlier food “can topple regimes,” he said.  Bangladesh has a population of about 156 million, with 32
percent aged less than 15, according to Bloomberg data. Slightly
smaller than the U.S. state of  Iowa , it ranks 196th among
nations when compared by gross domestic product per head on a
purchasing-power-parity basis, according to the  CIA World
Factbook . The country is often hit by cyclones that form in the
Bay of Bengal.  Governments around the world will “take preemptive
measures to prevent increases in food prices,” Alan Winney,
chairman of Emerald Group Australia Pty Ltd., has said. Bolivia
will tap central-bank reserves to stockpile food and spur farm
production, Finance Minister Luis Arce said on Feb. 10.  Thai Prices  Thai rice prices, the benchmark for  Asia , have gained over
the past six months. The price of 100 percent grade-B white rice,
which is set weekly, was $550 a ton on Feb. 23, according to the
 Thai Rice Exporters Association . Last year’s low in July was
$458 a ton.  Thailand  is the world’s biggest rice supplier.  Increased purchases of rice by Bangladesh from India may
cut Thai prices, according to Rakesh Singh, a trader at Emmsons
International Ltd. Bangladesh has agreed to buy 300,000 tons of
Indian rice and 200,000 tons of wheat, Razzaque said on Feb. 9.  ‘Little Margin’  Surging food costs hit the most vulnerable hardest as they
spend a greater share of their money on food,  World Bank 
President Robert Zoellick said earlier this month. People in  developing countries  devote half or three-quarters of their
income to food, “so they’ve got little margin,” Zoellick said.  Coarse rice in Dhaka, the Bangladeshi capital, climbed to
34.93 taka (49 cents) per kilogram in December, 42 percent
higher than a year earlier, the FAO said in a Jan. 17 report.  Bangladesh has doubled its rice-import target to cool local
prices as consumers and farmers hoarded supplies. The country
will buy 1.2 million tons in the year to June 30, from a
600,000-ton target set in November, Badrul Hasan, director for
procurement at the Directorate General of Food, said last month.  The government may buy as much as 2.5 million tons of rice
and wheat in the year to June 30, while private companies may
import 2 million tons of wheat in the period, Razzaque said. If
the planned Indian purchases happen “our imports will exceed
1.2 million tons this year ending June,” he said yesterday.  The price of rice may increase as a rally in wheat drives
consumers to seek alternatives, Robert Zeigler, director general
of the International Rice Research Institute, said on Feb. 11.
Wheat in  Chicago  has surged 56 percent over the past 12 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  