-- 
Bank of America, Foreclosure Accord, Card Access: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-02-25T12:39:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/bank-of-america-foreclosure-accord-card-access-compliance.html
  Bank of America Corp . won dismissal
of claims by investors that it misled them about the liquidity
of its auction-rate securities and manipulated the market for
the investments.  U.S. District Judge Jeffrey White in San Francisco said in
an order yesterday that investors could renew market-
manipulation claims if they added more information to their
complaints.  Investors who bought auction-rate securities from 2003 to
2008 sued Bank of America in 2009 on claims that the products
were offered as safe, cash-like investments while the company
hid their risks. Banks running periodic auctions abandoned the
$330 billion market for the securities in 2008 amid the fallout
from the subprime market slump and investors were stuck with
them.  Bank of America, based in Charlotte,  North Carolina , agreed
in October 2008 to buy back $4.5 billion in auction-rate
securities from investors and pay a $50 million fine in
agreements with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and
then  New York  Attorney General Andrew Cuomo.  Plaintiffs in the case pending in federal court in San
Francisco haven’t benefited from the settlement and continue to
hold the securities or sold them at a loss, according to White’s
ruling.  Dan Girard, an attorney for investors, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  The case is Bondar v. Bank of America, 08-02599, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  Compliance Action  Regulators Said to Push $20 Billion Foreclosure Settlement  U.S. regulators probing flawed and illegal mortgage-
foreclosure practices may try to extract $20 billion of
penalties in a settlement with banks that serviced the loans,
according to two people briefed on the talks.  Terms of the potential accord, from regulators led by the
Treasury Department and the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, haven’t been formally presented to banks, according
to the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
discussions aren’t public. Lenders embroiled in the
investigation include Bank of America Corp.,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co . and  Wells Fargo & Co .  The government originally floated a $25 billion penalty,
which banks rejected, one person said. Banks are resisting a
large settlement because while regulators have found widespread
flaws and violations in documents and procedures, the federal
agencies said they so far have uncovered few examples of
wrongful foreclosures.  Regulators are weighing whether the settlement should
require servicers to write down mortgage principal that would
lower home-loan payments for distressed borrowers, the person
briefed on the talks said.  Details of the settlement talks were reported earlier in
the Wall Street Journal.  Mortgage servicers drew scrutiny from federal bank and
housing regulators and state attorneys general after evidence
emerged in court cases that banks and their contractors
submitted flawed or illegal paperwork in hundreds of thousands
of foreclosure cases.  The so-called robo-signing scandal has slowed foreclosure
and bankruptcy cases, clogged state courts and prompted a review
of major financial companies.  Officials from HUD and the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency have said publicly that regulators may announce fines
against servicers in the coming weeks.  SEC Lawyer’s Role in Madoff Case Questioned by Lawmakers  U.S. House Republicans asked Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  to disclose details of the
participation of the agency’s chief lawyer in the investigation
of  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme.  The SEC said yesterday that the agency’s departing general
counsel, David M. Becker, didn’t recuse himself from the Madoff
probe after he and his brothers inherited about $2 million in
2004 from their mother’s investment with the jailed financier.  Becker sought an opinion from the SEC’s ethics office
“shortly after his return to the agency in 2009” about the
family Madoff account,  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in a
statement. The ethics office told Becker he didn’t need to
disqualify himself from “participation in certain Madoff-
related matters,” Nester said.  Becker said on Feb. 23 that he learned through a summons
last week that he and his two brothers were sued in bankruptcy
court in New York by Irving H. Picard, the trustee liquidating
Madoff’s firm, who seeks to recover $1.5 million of the
inheritance as a “fictitious” gain.  House Financial Services Chairman Spencer Bachus and three
senior members of his panel sent Schapiro a letter yesterday
requesting information on any meetings between Becker and
Madoff, as well as whether he prepared “any legal memoranda, or
provided counsel to any SEC employees about any matters”
involving Madoff’s firm.  The lawmakers also asked for information and documentation
about Becker’s involvement in the Madoff case, including “all
meetings with the Department of Justice, the Securities Investor
Protection Corporation, Mr.  Irving Picard  or any Madoff
victims.”  Becker’s departure from the SEC isn’t connected to Picard’s
lawsuit, Becker said Feb. 23. He declined to discuss his
conversations with SEC officials about the matter.  Horizon to Pay $45 Million Fine in Price-Fixing Case  Horizon Lines Inc.  will plead guilty and pay a $45 million
fine for fixing freight rates, the U.S. Justice Department said.  Horizon, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, conspired to
fix prices for shipping freight between the U.S. and Puerto Rico
from May 2002 to April 2008, according to the department, citing
a one-count felony charge filed yesterday in U.S. District Court
in Puerto Rico.  The fine stems from an investigation the department’s
 Antitrust Division  is conducting of the coastal water freight
industry, according to the department. In 2008, five former
executives pleaded guilty in the Horizon case.  Horizon executives met with co-conspirators to fix rates
and surcharges and then make sure the plot was carried out, the
department said.  Ex-Taylor, Bean Treasurer Admits Guilt in $1.9 Billion Fraud  The former treasurer of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage
Corp., once the 12th-largest mortgage lender in the U.S.,
admitted helping run a $1.9 billion fraud scheme that targeted
the government’s Troubled Asset Relief Program and contributed
to the failure of Colonial Bank.  Desiree Brown, 45, pleaded guilty in federal court in
Alexandria, Virginia, to wire fraud, securities fraud, and
conspiring to commit bank fraud, and agreed to cooperate with
prosecutors bringing  Lee Farkas , former chairman of Taylor,
Bean, to trial on April 4. Brown also settled civil charges with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, the SEC said.  Until yesterday’s charges, Farkas, 58, was the only person
charged in what the government said was a massive scheme to
deceive financial firms and TARP by covering up shortfalls at
Taylor, Bean & Whitaker, once one of the largest privately held
mortgage companies in the U.S., according to the SEC. Farkas was
charged in a 16-count indictment in June and faces the
possibility of spending the rest of his life in prison,
according to court papers.  “Were there other people besides Mr. Farkas who were
involved in this scheme,” U.S. District Judge Leonie M.
Brinkema asked Brown at the plea hearing?  “Yes ma’am,” Brown answered.  Brown, of Hernando,  Florida , faces a maximum penalty of 30
years in prison, a $250,000 fine and an order to pay restitution
to more than 250 victims. She is to be sentenced on June 10.  The crime included conspiring to transfer funds between
closely held  Taylor Bean  and Colonial Bank, a unit of  Colonial
BancGroup Inc ., to hide overdrafts, prosecutors said. The bank
was one of the 50 largest in the U.S., according to the
government.  The SEC’s complaint alleges Brown violated antifraud,
reporting, books and records and internal controls provisions of
federal securities laws. She agreed to an injunction against
future violations without admitting or denying the SEC’s
allegations.  The Brown case is USA v. Brown, 1:11-cr-00084, and the
Farkas case is USA v. Farkas, 1:10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more, click here.  Swiss Bank Says It Hasn’t Received Inquiries in Tax Case  Maerki Baumann & Co., a Swiss private bank, said it hasn’t
received any inquiries from the U.S. Justice Department after a
former employee was charged with conspiring to help American
clients evade taxes.  “The bank will fully cooperate with the American
authorities as and if required,” the Zurich-based company said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The bank “attaches great
importance to adhering to regulatory guidelines in all of its
business activities.”  Emanuel Agustoni, a Swiss citizen, worked for Maerki
Baumann from March 2005 until November 2008 and his employment
contract was terminated because of “differing views with regard
to business practices,” the bank said.  Agustoni, who worked for  Credit Suisse Group AG  before
joining Maerki Baumann, was one of four bankers charged Feb. 23
in the U.S. He traveled to the U.S. to help clients evade their
taxes and continued doing so at two other private Swiss banks
besides Credit Suisse, prosecutors charged.  Maerki Baumann said its board decided to cease all business
with clients domiciled in the U.S. in May 2009 and implemented
that step by the end of that year.  LG Display Appeals EU Penalty for Alleged Price-Fixing  LG Display Co., the world’s second-largest maker of liquid-
crystal displays, appealed the European Union’s decision to fine
the company for fixing prices.  LG filed an appeal on Feb. 23 asking for a reduced penalty,
the Seoul-based company said in a regulatory filing today. The
company was fined 215 million euros ($297 million) in December,
along with Chi Mei Optoelectronics Corp. and four other display
makers, the European Commission said.  The company reported its first quarterly loss in almost two
years in January after it reflected the penalty.  Compliance Policy  Stay-Home Moms at Fed’s Door as Rule Tightens Card Access  Sometimes the best intentions can go awry. Just ask the  Federal Reserve , which in its efforts to stop credit-card
companies from preying on poor people and students has touched
off a battle over stay-at-home moms.  Charged with writing rules implementing the 2009 law
designed to curb credit-card abuses, the Fed late last year
proposed that card companies consider “individual” rather than
“household” income or assets when issuing cards. The change,
say lawmakers who worked on the measure, is meant to prevent
banks from issuing credit cards to college students who then run
up thousands of dollars in debt and have no ability to pay.  The Fed, which has spent most of the financial crisis
getting slammed for its lax oversight of consumer credit, took
things a step further, interpreting the law to mean that it
should keep credit cards out of the hands of anyone without a
paycheck or ample personal savings. That, of course, includes
spouses who don’t work -- husbands in some cases but most often
wives, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Feb. 28 issue.  In its November proposal, the Fed said those without an
income could get a credit card if a spouse co-signed the
application. Some Fed critics say the proposal makes the central
bank look like it is stuck in the 1950s, when women needed their
husbands’ signatures even to open bank accounts.  “Women have worked hard over the course of my lifetime to
establish financial independence,” said Representative Carolyn
B. Maloney, a New York Democrat and one of the authors of the
Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure Act.
“If a stay-at-home mom, who’s often the one who controls the
family finances, cannot easily obtain a credit card in her own
name, then that would be a step backward.”  Anne P. Fortney and Jean Noonan, partners in the  Washington 
office of law firm Hudson Cook, wrote in a Dec. 20 letter: “The
proposal undermines 35 years of progress for married women (and
married men if they do not work outside the home).”  Policy specialists say fixing the mom flap won’t be easy,
especially in the post-financial-crisis environment where
regulatory zeal is the norm, even if it produces unintended
consequences.  “This is how it’s going to be in Washington,” said
Brandon Barford, a former Republican Senate Banking Committee
aide who is now a vice president at ACG Analytics, an investment
research firm. “Regulators need political cover to fix this,
they need to look tough.”  Susan Stawick, a Fed spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the central bank’s interpretation of the credit-card law and
whether the regulator plans to change the proposal. The agency
hasn’t set a deadline for issuing a final rule.  Courts  Beckman Coulter Sued by Investor Over $6 Billion Danaher Bid  Beckman Coulter Inc., the medical-diagnostic equipment
maker being bought by microscope maker  Danaher Corp . for $6.8
billion, was sued by a shareholder who says the company is worth
more than the $83.50-a-share bid.  Directors of Brea, California-based Beckman Coulter didn’t
meet their obligation to get the best price for shareholders in
a sale, Yuri Levin said Feb. 23 in a complaint in Delaware
Chancery Court in Wilmington.  The sale price “is unfair and grossly inadequate”
considering the prospect for growth, and officials have a self-
interest in selling the company because “the board and certain
officers would receive an aggregate of approximately $42
million” by cashing out stock, Levin contends.  Danaher, based in Washington, said Feb. 7 it agreed to buy
Beckman Coulter amid increased demand for medical tests from an
aging population.  “As a matter of policy, we don’t comment on lawsuits,”
Mary Luthy, a Beckman Coulter spokeswoman, said yesterday in a
phone interview.  The case is Levin v.  Beckman Coulter Inc ., CA6213, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:  Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 