-- 
Bank of America Recorded Gains on 80% of Trading Days in Fourth Quarter

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-02-26T00:43:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/bank-of-america-reports-gains-on-securities-in-90-of-trading-days-in-2010.html
  Bank of America Corp ., the largest
U.S. lender by assets, made money on about 80 percent of trading
days in the fourth quarter, trailing its biggest rival  JPMorgan
Chase & Co .  The bank disclosed its full-year trading performance
yesterday in a regulatory filing, saying it recorded gains on
90 percent of days when the markets were operating in 2010. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm previously said it posted
perfect trading records in the first and third quarters and said
it made money during 81 percent of the second quarter.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, has leaned
on the firm’s investment bank, most of which was acquired in the
2009 takeover of Merrill Lynch & Co., as the consumer banking
units booked losses tied to new regulation and faulty mortgages.
Bank of America said last month it experienced a “difficult”
trading environment in the fourth quarter, while New York-based
JPMorgan said it made money every day of that period.  “It was just a tougher quarter in terms of client activity
and tougher quarter in terms of the market, and it’s not any one
area,” Moynihan said in a Jan. 21 conference call. “I really
chalk it up to sort of a malaise and tougher market quarter.”  The investment banking division, run by former Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. trading head  Thomas Montag , earned $6.3 billion
in 2010, a 37 percent decline from the year earlier. Bank of
America trading revenue slipped 1.8 percent to $17.3 billion
last year from 2009. The bank is still “comfortable” with its
target of about $5 billion in trading revenue per quarter,
Moynihan said in the January call with analysts.  Gains, Losses  Bank of America said yesterday that 75 percent of trading
days last year included gains of more than $25 million and that
4 percent of sessions had losses greater than $25 million. The
worst single daily loss was $102 million, the firm said. For
2009, positive results were recorded 88 percent of trading days.  Meanwhile, JPMorgan traders made an average of $76 million
a day last year, according to an investor presentation this
month at the bank’s New York headquarters. The firm lost money
on only eight days last year, all in the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 