-- 
Madoff, BofA, SAP, Taylor Bean, Walt Disney in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-02-25T11:16:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/bank-of-america-sap-taylor-bean-walt-disney-in-court-news.html
The estate of investment adviser
Stanley Chais must face claims by the trustee liquidating
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC that Chais and
related entities fraudulently received more than $1 billion as
“insiders” of Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  refused to dismiss
trustee  Irving Picard ’s lawsuit seeking to recover allegedly
fraudulent withdrawals made by Chais and his family partnerships
during a 13-year period starting in 1995, according to the
ruling filed yesterday in federal bankruptcy court in Manhattan.  Lifland did dismiss Picard’s claim seeking the immediate
turnover of transferred funds. Picard sued Chais and related
entities in May 2009 saying Chais was a beneficiary of the Ponzi
scheme for at least 30 years and “knew or should have known
that they were reaping the benefits of manipulated purported
returns, false documents and fictitious profits.”  Chais, who was among Madoff’s largest investors, denied
wrongdoing and said he was duped by Madoff. Chais died in
September at age 84. The defendants in the Picard suit are Chais
family members and trusts that the family oversees, according to
Lifland’s ruling.  Philip White, an attorney for the Chais entities, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail left after regular business
hours.  Madoff pleaded guilty and is serving a 150-year prison
sentence. At the time of his arrest in December 2008, his
account statements reflected 4,900 accounts with stated balances
of $68 billion. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal,
Picard has said.  The case is Picard v. Chais, 09-01172,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Bank of America Wins Claims Dismissal in Auction-Rate Case    Bank of America Corp . won dismissal of claims by investors
that it misled them about the liquidity of its auction-rate
securities and manipulated the market for the investments.  U.S. District Judge Jeffrey White in San Francisco said
yesterday in an order that investors can renew market-
manipulation claims if they add more information to their case.  Investors who bought auction-rated securities from 2003 to
2008 sued Bank of America in 2009 on claims the securities were
offered as safe, cash-like investments while the company hid
their risks. Banks running auctions abandoned the $330 billion
market in 2008 during the subprime market slump, and investors
were stuck with the products.  Bank of America, based in Charlotte,  North Carolina , agreed
in October 2008 to buy back $4.5 billion in auction-rate
securities and pay a $50 million fine, in accords with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission and New York State.  Plaintiffs in the San Francisco case haven’t benefited from
the settlement and continue to hold the securities or sold them
at a loss, according to White’s ruling.  Dan Girard, an attorney for investors, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  The case is Bondar v. Bank of America, 08-02599, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  NFL, Union Argue Television Revenue Advance Before U.S. Judge  A U.S. judge said he will rule quickly on the legal fight
between the National Football League and its players union over
about $4 billion in television money.  The  NFL Players Association  wants U.S. District Judge David
Doty in Minneapolis to overturn an arbitrator’s decision
allowing the league to keep the broadcast rights fees that the
union says were improperly negotiated so owners would receive
money from networks even if there’s a work stoppage that cancels
games in the 2011 season.  Tom Heiden, a lawyer for the union, said in court in
Minneapolis yesterday that the television deals provided owners
with a “$4 billion war chest, every dollar of which is
available to them to finance their 2011 lockout.”  “This plan was so important that those TV deals would
never have been done without these lockout provisions,” Heiden
said.  Owners voted in 2008 to opt out of the league’s labor deal
with players, which expires next week, saying it didn’t account
for costs such as those of building stadiums.  The league says the television deals were negotiated in
good faith. Gregg Levy, a lawyer for the NFL, said in court that
the league also earned hundreds of millions of dollars in new
broadcast money by redistributing some digital rights.  “There’s no evidence at all that the NFL traded dollars,
or the potential for dollars, in 2010 for rights in 2011,” he
said.  The case is White v. NFL, 4:92-cv-00906, U.S. District
Court for the District of Minnesota (Minneapolis).  Michigan Foreclosures-by-Advertising Surprise Homeowners  Chuck and Alicia Krantz fell behind on their mortgage
payments last year and sought to modify the loan to save their
three-bedroom ranch home in Westland, Michigan, just outside
Detroit, from foreclosure.  Two payments in April brought them current, they said in a
lawsuit filed in Detroit federal court. In May, CitiMortgage
Inc., a unit of  Citigroup Inc ., told them they were in
foreclosure and would be refunded the $3,129.96 they sent the
month before. As foreclosure proceeded, they continued to pursue
a modification, Chuck Krantz said in an interview.  CitiMortgage sent a modification package in May, requesting
documents. Even as they discussed the modification with
CitiMortgage, an advertisement announcing the foreclosure was
published, said Adam Alexander, the Krantzes’ lawyer. The home
was sold at a sheriff’s auction in June.  Homeowners nationwide claim that banks and loan servicers
are pushing through foreclosures, or arbitrarily rejecting or
ignoring loan-modification requests, Bloomberg News’s Margaret
Cronin Fisk reports.  CitiMortgage denied the Krantzes’ claims. The company
“admits only that it sent plaintiffs a notice under the ‘Making
Home Affordable’ Program on May 26, 2010,” its lawyers said in
court papers.  Making Home Affordable  is the federal home-loan
modification program.  After the Krantzes provided documents, they “were
repeatedly advised that their modification application was
incomplete,” the lawyers said in the Feb. 3 filing.  “We believe the case is without merit,” Robert Julavits,
a Citigroup spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We plan to defend
our position vigorously.”  The case is Krantz v. CitiMortgage, 2:11-cv-10371, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Beckman Coulter Sued by Investor Over $6 Billion Danaher Bid  Beckman Coulter Inc., the medical-diagnostic equipment
maker being bought by microscope maker  Danaher Corp . for $6.8
billion, was sued by a shareholder who says the company is worth
more than the $83.50-a-share bid.  Directors of Brea, California-based Beckman Coulter didn’t
meet their obligation to get the best price for shareholders in
a sale, Yuri Levin said Feb. 23 in a complaint in Delaware
Chancery Court in Wilmington.  The sale price “is unfair and grossly inadequate”
considering the prospect for growth, and officials have a self-
interest in selling the company because “the board and certain
officers would receive an aggregate of approximately $42
million” by cashing out stock, Levin contends.  Danaher, based in  Washington , said Feb. 7 it agreed to buy
Beckman Coulter amid increased demand for medical tests from an
aging population.  “As a matter of policy, we don’t comment on lawsuits,”
Mary Luthy, a Beckman Coulter spokeswoman, said yesterday in a
phone interview.  The case is Levin v.  Beckman Coulter Inc ., CA6213, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Publicis Groupe, MSLGroup Sued for Gender Discrimination  Publicis Groupe and MSLGroup were sued and accused of
discriminating against female public-relations employees in pay,
promotions and firings.  Monique da Silva Moore, a former global health-care
director for MSLGroup, a unit of Paris-based Publicis Groupe,
sued yesterday in federal court in New York, claiming that men
dominate senior management at a company where 70 percent of the
employees are women.  “Publicis’s glass ceiling might as well be a cement
wall,” da Silva Moore said in the complaint. “Gender
discrimination permeates Publicis’s entire PR practice.”  Da Silva Moore seeks to represent a class of hundreds of
current and former U.S. public-relations employees of Publicis
and MSLGroup and claims more than $100 million in damages.  “We generally do not comment on pending litigation, but we
can say that the fact that the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission dismissed Ms. da Silva’s charge reflects the lack of
merit to her claims,” Trudi Harris, a spokeswoman for MSLGroup,
said in an e-mailed statement. She said the company expects the
court will reach the same conclusion.  Janette Wipper, a lawyer for da Silva, said in an e-mailed
statement that the EEOC “did not issue any finding concerning
our client’s charge.” The agency’s investigation has no bearing
on the lawsuit, she said.  Peggy Nahmany, a spokeswoman for Publicis, had no comment
on the suit.  The case is Da Silva Moore v. Publicis Groupe, 1:11-cv-
01279, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  SAP Asks Court to Reduce Oracle Award or Order New Trial    SAP AG , the business-software maker that a jury found
should pay $1.3 billion to rival Oracle Corp., asked a judge to
hold a new trial or reduce the award to no more than $407.8
million.  Oracle didn’t provide sufficient evidence to justify the
verdict, a “miscarriage of justice,” Walldorf, Germany-based
SAP said Feb. 23 in papers in federal court in Oakland,
California. SAP said Feb. 3 it would seek to overturn the jury
award, the largest ever for copyright infringement.  A new trial isn’t needed and the verdict should stand,
Oracle said in filings. Oracle, based in Redwood City,
California, accused SAP’s U.S.-based TomorrowNow software-
maintenance unit of making hundreds of thousands of illegal
downloads and several thousand copies of Oracle’s software to
avoid licensing fees and steal customers.  The case is  Oracle Corp . v SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Ex-U.S. Mortgage President Sentenced to 14 Years for Fraud  The former president of U.S. Mortgage was sentenced to 14
years in prison after admitting to a conspiracy that prosecutors
said defrauded credit unions and Fannie Mae of $136 million.  Michael J. McGrath Jr., 47, of Montclair, New Jersey,
pleaded guilty in June 2009 to one count each of conspiracy to
commit money laundering and conspiracy to commit mail and wire
fraud. U.S. District Judge Katharine S. Hayden sentenced McGrath
yesterday in Newark,  New Jersey , U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said
in an e-mailed statement.  U.S. Mortgage, based in Pine Brook, New Jersey, underwrote
mortgages and serviced loans for credit unions before filing for
bankruptcy in 2009. Starting in 2002, McGrath fraudulently sold
credit-union loans to Fannie Mae and used the proceeds to
finance U.S. Mortgage’s operations and investments for himself
and his company, Fishman said.  To conceal the fraudulent sales, U.S. Mortgage Chief
Financial Officer Leroy Hayden, 47, provided false reports to
credit unions saying loans that had been sold were still in
their portfolios, according to the statement. Hayden, who
pleaded guilty to one count of wire fraud, is scheduled to be
sentenced next month.  McGrath’s lawyer, Michael Critchley, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment after regular business hours
yesterday.  The case is USA v. Michael J. McGrath Jr.,09-436 U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  Ex-Taylor, Bean Official Admits Guilt in $1.9 Billion Fraud  The ex-treasurer of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp.,
once the 12th-largest mortgage lender in the U.S., admitted
helping run a $1.9 billion fraud scheme that targeted the
government’s Troubled Asset Relief Program and contributed to
the failure of Colonial Bank.  Desiree Brown, 45, pleaded guilty yesterday in federal
court in Alexandria, Virginia, to a single fraud conspiracy
count and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors bringing  Lee
Farkas , former chairman of  Taylor Bean , to trial on April 4.
Brown also settled a civil suit with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the SEC said.  Until yesterday, Farkas, 58, was the only person charged in
what the government said was a massive scheme to deceive
financial firms and TARP by covering up shortfalls at Taylor
Bean. Farkas was charged in a 16-count indictment in June and
faces the possibility of spending the rest of his life in
prison, according to court papers.  “Were there other people besides Mr. Farkas who were
involved in this scheme?” U.S. District Judge Leonie M.
Brinkema asked Brown at the plea hearing.  “Yes, ma’am,” Brown answered.  Brown, of Hernando, Florida, faces a maximum penalty of 30
years in prison, a $250,000 fine and an order to pay restitution
to more than 250 victims. She is to be sentenced on June 10.  The crime included conspiring to transfer funds between
closely held Taylor Bean and Colonial Bank, a unit of  Colonial
BancGroup Inc ., to hide overdrafts, prosecutors said. The bank
was one of the 50 largest in the U.S., according to the
government.  The Brown case is USA v. Brown, 1:11-cr-00084, and the
Farkas case is USA v. Farkas, 1:10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more, click here.  Hollywood Studios Lose Appeal on Australian Piracy Lawsuit    Walt Disney Co . and Viacom Inc.’s Paramount Pictures are
among Hollywood’s biggest movie studios that lost a piracy
lawsuit in Australia as an appeals court upheld a ruling that a
local Internet provider wasn’t responsible for customers’
illegally downloading films.  The Federal Court of Australia Full Court, in a 2 to 1
decision, yesterday upheld Judge Dennis Cowdroy’s Feb. 4, 2010,
verdict that vindicated  iiNet Ltd . The studios can appeal the
ruling to the country’s High Court. A notice must be filed
within 28 days, unless an extension is sought.  Village Roadshow Ltd.’s Roadshow Films led the companies
trying to stop iiNet customers from using BitTorrent software to
illegally download copyrighted films, in a precedent-setting
case for all Internet providers in Australia.  A ruling in the studios’ favor would have made all Internet
providers liable for their customers’ conduct.  “The evidence supports a conclusion that iiNet
demonstrated a dismissive and, indeed, contumelious, attitude to
the complaints of infringement,” Judge Arthur Emmett wrote.
“Its conduct did not amount to authorization of the primary
acts of infringement on the part of iiNet users.”  The  case  is Roadshow Films Pty. v. iiNet Ltd. NSD179/2010,
Federal Court of Australia (Sydney.)  For more, click here.  Horizon to Pay $45 Million Fine in Price-Fixing Case  Horizon Lines Inc.  will plead guilty and pay a $45 million
fine for fixing freight rates, the U.S. Justice Department said.  Horizon, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, conspired to
fix prices for shipping freight between the U.S. and Puerto Rico
from May 2002 to April 2008, according to the department, citing
a one-count felony charge filed yesterday in U.S. District Court
in Puerto Rico.  The fine stems from an investigation the department’s
 Antitrust Division  is conducting of the coastal water freight
industry, according to the department. In 2008, five former
executives pleaded guilty in the Horizon case.  Horizon executives met with co-conspirators to fix rates
and surcharges and then make sure the plot was carried out, the
department said.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  On The Docket  Toyota Sudden-Acceleration Suit Scheduled for Trial in March  Lawyers suing  Toyota Motor Corp . in sudden-acceleration
lawsuits coordinated in California said the carmaker didn’t
disclose that a related case was scheduled for trial next month
in federal court in Central Islip, New York.  “This situation seriously undermines the policy goals
underlying the coordination of these actions in the present”
multidistrict litigation, lawyers for plaintiffs in the
coordinated cases said in a filing Feb. 23 in federal court in
Santa Ana, California. “Toyota never sought to have this action
coordinated with the MDL.”  U.S. District Judge James Selna, who is overseeing the
coordinated cases, set a hearing for today on whether the New
York case should be transferred to Santa Ana. The lawyers also
seek an order that Toyota disclose any related federal court
cases that aren’t already part of the multidistrict litigation.  The federal lawsuits against Toyota alleging economic loss,
wrongful death or personal injury from sudden unintended
acceleration were consolidated before Selna in April. The judge
said last month that he wanted the initial bellwether case to go
to trial in the first three months of 2013.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, recalled millions of
U.S. vehicles last year and in 2009, most for defects related to
unintended acceleration. The company, based in Toyota City,
Japan, paid a record $48.8 million in fines for how some of the
recalls were conducted. The carmaker said yesterday that it’s
recalling another 2.17 million vehicles in the U.S. for carpet
and floor-mat flaws that could jam gas pedals.  The New York case was brought in July of 2008 by Amir
Sitafalwalla, who claimed he was seriously injured when the 2005
Scion TC he was driving “without warning accelerated resulting
in a violent collision.”  Celeste Migliore, a spokeswoman for Toyota Motor Sales USA
in Torrance, California, and Robert Scumaci, a lawyer for Toyota
in the New York case, didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment yesterday.  The New York case is Sitafalwalla v. Toyota Motor Sales,
08-03001, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Central Islip).  The coordinated cases are In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 