-- 
Bekaert to Expand China Cord Capacity as Profit Climbs 73%

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-02-25T17:37:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/bekaert-to-expand-china-cord-capacity-as-profit-climbs-73-1-.html
Bekaert NV, the world’s largest maker
of steel cord for tires, will expand production capacity in  China 
after second-half profit beat analyst estimates because of
accelerating growth in its higher-margin Asian businesses.  “We will ramp up steel-cord capacity because we want to be
able to maintain our market share,” Chief Financial Officer
Bruno Humblet told reporters in Brussels today. He said Bekaert’s
plants in the Asian country, with a capacity of 450,000 metric
tons, were “running flat out” by year-end and expects the
Chinese market to expand to about 1.5 million tons this year.  Net income for the six months through December rose 73
percent to 186.6 million euros ($257.1 million), exceeding the
181.5 million-euro average estimate of four analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The Zwevegem, Belgium-based company forecast a
“sustained strong performance” in the six months through June
and said  capital spending  will at least equal last year’s 247.6
million euros.  Sales growth in the Asia-Pacific region accelerated to 67
percent in the final quarter from 47 percent in the prior three-
month period. The higher proportion of Asian revenue also boosted
Bekaert’s profitability, even as margins in the region narrowed
from the first half. Bekaert gets about 80 percent of Asian sales
from higher-margin products including steel cord for tires,
sawing wire and coatings used to make solar cells.  Market Value  Bekaert rose 3.9 percent, the most in two weeks, to 76.84
euros at the 5:35 p.m. close of trading on Euronext Brussels. The
shares have retreated 11 percent since the start of the year
after more than doubling in 2010, giving Bekaert a market value
of 4.6 billion euros.  The company expects last year’s sales growth of 34 percent
will become more “moderate” and “irregular” in coming years
because of government checks on economic growth in China,
inflation-containing policies in several countries and volatility
of raw-material prices.  “The only thing we know for sure is that we will continue
to grow,” Chief Executive Officer Bert De Graeve said. “For us,
that means aligning our production capacity to the top end of the
forecast range and making sure we can cut back production to
levels in line with the bottom end.”  Bekaert is also accelerating spending on its 97 million-euro
phased project for a Russian steel-cord plant, which started
producing last year with semi-processed raw materials being
imported from abroad. De Graeve said he wants to integrate the
plant in the Lipetsk as quickly as possible.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  