-- 
BlackRock’s Chappell Says Fund Managers Must Share Some Blame

-- B y   B l a n c h e   G a t t
-- 
2011-02-25T12:48:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/blackrock-s-chappell-says-fund-managers-must-share-some-blame.html
Fund managers should share some of
the blame for the financial crisis sparked by the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . in September 2008, said Luke Chappell, co-head of U.K. equities at  BlackRock Inc ., the
world’s largest asset manager.  “There aren’t many people who don’t bear some part of that
blame,” said Chappell, part of the U.K. equity team with 26
billion pounds ($42 billion) under management, in a lecture at
the London School of Economics yesterday. “Fund managers have
to understand that it’s not their money obviously and more
importantly it is somebody else’s money.”  In 2008 global stock markets fell 44 percent. Paul Myners,
appointed government Treasury minister in 2008, called on fund
managers in April 2009 to scrutinise bank finances more closely
and flag deals such as  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s
acquisition of ABN Amro NV.  Fund managers have since learnt to communicate more
directly with companies and to avoid the “coded messages” of
the past, said Chappell. “We now tell companies what we
think,” he said. “We check and double-check that they’ve
understood, so hopefully there’s less obfuscation.”  The Blackrock UK Fund’s top 10 holdings as of Aug. 1,
included six stocks that were in the portfolio 10 years ago,
according to  Standard & Poor’s  report published in September.  They were HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest bank,  Vodafone Group Plc , the world’s biggest mobile-phone operator,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc , the U.K.’s largest pharmaceutical company,
BP Plc, Europe’s second-biggest oil company,  Tullow Oil Plc  and
Royal Dutch Shell Group Plc, according to the S&P report.  Chappell said he shuns stocks that show a high risk to the
“volatility of future events” such as International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA, owners of British Airways. ICAG
shares may be subject to strike action by cabin crew, natural
disasters like volcanic eruptions and terror attacks.  “Other companies I think have a far greater control on
their destiny,” Chappell said. “They have a far greater
ability to influence their returns on equity and their returns
to shareholders and it’s those type of companies that are
naturally going to be higher up my list in terms of percentage
weightings in portfolios.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blanche Gatt in London at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  