-- 
BlackRock Picks Emerging Stocks for Second Half, Predicts Slower Inflation

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-02-25T09:31:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/blackrock-picks-emerging-stocks-for-second-half-predicts-slower-inflation.html
  BlackRock Inc ., the world’s largest
asset manager, recommended a return to stocks in emerging
markets including China and  Brazil  in the second half of the
year because slowing inflation will make them more attractive.  “As we get into the back half of the year, some of the
near-term cyclical inflation we’re seeing right now in China,
Brazil and most other emerging markets will start to abate,”  Russ Koesterich , the San Francisco-based head of investment
strategy for scientific active equities at BlackRock, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. The second half is “probably
a great time to rotate back into emerging markets,” he said.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index that tracks 21 developing
nations has lost 5 percent this year, compared with a 4 percent
advance for the  MSCI World  Index, a measure of 24 developed
nations. Global-tracked emerging-market equity funds had more
than $7 billion of outflows in the week ended Feb. 2, the most
in three years, according to EFPR Global. Investors channeled
part of the funds into the U.S., Japan and other developed
nations, the research company said.  MSCI’s emerging market index advanced 0.7 percent to
1,094.12 as of 5:29 p.m. in  Shanghai .  The Shanghai Composite Index has dropped 6 percent in the
past 12 months. The government raised banks’ reserve
requirements for a second time this year on Feb. 18, after an
interest-rate increase on Feb. 8. Inflation accelerated to a 4.9
percent annual pace in January, exceeding the government’s 2011
target for a fourth month. The measure was little changed at
2,878.57 at the 3 p.m. close.    China ’s February inflation rate may ease to 4.8 percent
because of slowing rises in food prices, according to Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co.  Brazil, China  Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index has declined 3.4 percent
this year on concern rising inflation will spur additional
measures to restrict credit growth, overshadowing gains in oil
and raw-material producers. The index trades for 10.6 times
analysts’ estimated earnings, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 13.3 for the Shanghai
Composite, 7.1 for  Russia ’s Micex, and 17.3 for India’s Bombay
Stock Exchange Sensitive Index.  Koesterich cautioned against India as it looks more
“expensive” than most other markets. “The problem is  India 
has been arguably less aggressive than some of the other central
banks in emerging markets in draining reserves from the banking
system,” he said.  The Sensex slid 3 percent yesterday to close at 17,632.41,
its biggest drop since Nov. 3, 2009. The Sensex has lost 7.9
percent since Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on Jan. 25
increased  interest rates  for the seventh time in a year and
forecast inflation will accelerate to 7 percent by March 31.
That’s above the target of 4 percent to 4.5 percent.  “I’m less confident that we’ll see a near-term inflation
deceleration in that market,” Koesterich said. “ India’s
central bank has more work to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  