-- 
Boeing Beats EADS to $35 Billion Air Force Tanker Program on Third Attempt

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-02-25T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/boeing-wins-35-billion-air-force-tanker-program-on-third-try.html
  Boeing Co ., the sole supplier of
aerial refueling tankers to the U.S.  Air Force  since 1948, beat
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. for a $35 billion
program to build 179 new tankers, the Pentagon said yesterday.  It was the Chicago-based company’s third try at the
contract since Congress and the Air Force first proposed the
tanker replacement program in late 2001 -- a contest in which
Boeing was viewed as an underdog, said an analyst.  “Boeing’s victory was a major upset, and not at all what
the industry was expecting,”  Richard Aboulafia , a military
aircraft analyst with the Fairfax, Virginia-based  Teal Group ,
said in an e-mail.  Boeing will manufacture basic 767-model aircraft in
Everett,  Washington , and convert them into tankers in Wichita,  Kansas , during the first stage of a three-part Air Force program
stretching decades to replace its tanker fleet.  The initial contract for the development phase was valued
at $3.5 billion. The entire first phase covers 13 production
lots through 2027. The Pratt & Whitney unit of  United
Technologies Corp . will provide the engines. Boeing says the win
will create and sustain 50,000 jobs among 800 suppliers in 40
states.  “Boeing was the clear winner,” Deputy Defense Secretary
William Lynn said yesterday at a Pentagon news conference.
“This competition favored no one, except the taxpayer and the
war fighter.”  The turn of events is “disappointing,” EADS North America
Chairman Ralph D. Crosby Jr. said yesterday.  “We look forward to discussing with the Air Force how it
arrived at this conclusion,” he said.  Right to Protest  EADS has the right to protest the decision within 10 days
of being briefed by the Air Force. That briefing is scheduled
for Feb. 28 at the Pentagon, said an industry official who was
not authorized to publicly discuss the session and spoke on
condition of anonymity.  “We structured a competition that was fair, that was based
on a variety of factors, including price and war-fighting
capabilities and Boeing was the clear winner of that process,”
Lynn said. The process, he said, “does not provide grounds for
protest.”  Boeing jumped to $73.25 as of 5:52 p.m. yesterday after the
close of trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Boeing rose 53
cents to $70.76 yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  Aging Fleet  The Air Force’s large tanker fleet consists mostly of 415
 KC-135R  aircraft that first entered service in 1956. The last
was delivered in 1964.  The new tanker is being designated the KC-46A, the Pentagon
said.  Boeing and EADS were assessed on how well their respective
aircraft met 372 mandatory war-fighting requirements in a “best
value” evaluation that took account of the aircraft’s basic
price as well as “total life-cycle cost,” including  fuel
efficiency , combat mission refueling effectiveness and military
construction expenses.  “This was a spirited competition, with both offerers
acquitting themselves well,” said Air Force Secretary Michael Donley.  Dennis Muilenburg, chief of Boeing’s Defense, Space and
Security unit, told reporters last night during a conference
call that the bid leveraged the company’s production
efficiencies and logistics support.  ‘Efficient’ and ‘Reliable’  “If you look at the overall criteria, it was life-cycle
costs, our ability to deliver long-term support, not only taking
advantage of our efficient production capacity but also the fact
that our 767-based airframe is very efficient, very reliable,
very maintainable,” Muilenburg said.  “That results in advantages of overall” fuel consumption
and lower military construction costs, he said.  Muilenburg declined to discuss the per-aircraft price
except to say that “we submitted an aggressive but responsible
bid that will allow us to execute the program while still
creating value for our shareholders.”  “We think we found the right balance,” he said.  EADS had been bullish about winning the order, saying its
A330 airliner-based model offered greater capacity than Boeing’s
767 model because it was larger.  EADS’s Airbus unit has beaten Boeing in bids to supply the
U.K. and  Australia  with refueling planes. It also won aircraft
contests in  Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab Emirates , while
Boeing was selected in Japan and  Italy .  Cost-Cutting Efforts  The victory came amid moves by Boeing to redesign its 767  production line  to cut costs in an attempt to outbid EADS,
saying its aircraft would have lower overall production and
maintenance expenses.  “The low-ownership-cost message clearly had its appeal in
these budget-constrained times,” the Teal Group’s Aboulafia
said. “But EADS’s supporters will do their best to try to stall
this contract and to make a split-buy an acceptable
alternative.”  The consensus among industry analysts and Washington, D.C.-
based research institute observers was that EADS would win, said
Byron Callan, a defense analyst with Capital Alpha Partners LLC.
“With the win, Boeing erases the market share it has lost in
recent years to Airbus in global tankers,” he said.  Boeing as Underdog  In a Feb. 22 note to clients, Deutsche Bank aerospace
analyst Myles Walton said: “Boeing seems to be presenting
itself as the underdog, which is either managing expectations or
they are the underdog and want to ensure political supporters
are preparing to fight a loss.”  “In either case, we expect stock reaction could be a
couple dollars upside on a win and a modest downside move on a
loss,” Walton said.  Asked during a Dec. 1 interview about the relative value of
the tanker program to Boeing’s defense business, Muilenburg
said: “In terms of our overall business base, it’s not a
needle-mover for us. It’s important to us, but it’s not
something we are dependent on.”  Boeing’s first attempt at the contract was derailed in 2004
by a scandal involving former top Air Force procurement official
Darleen Druyun and then-Boeing Chief Financial Officer Michael
Sears.  Sears was sentenced to four months in prison for offering
Druyun a job in October 2002, during the initial tanker
negotiations. She was hired in January 2003. Druyun was
sentenced to nine months in prison.  The second attempt was postponed by Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  in September 2008 to review the competition’s
criteria and leave the decision to the next administration.  Boeing successfully protested the tanker award that
February to  Northrop Grumman Corp . and EADS.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  