-- 
Boeing Rises as Tanker Win Preserves 767 Jet, Eases Sting of Plane Delays

-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 
2011-02-25T21:28:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/boeing-tanker-win-keeps-alive-767-jet-eases-sting-from-dreamliner-delays.html
  Boeing Co . rose the most in five
weeks after its surprise win in the U.S. Air Force tanker
program kept the 767 jet alive and eased the sting from months
of delays on two marquee airliners.  “They faced the toughest competitor they know in the
market and they came out first,”  Howard Rubel , a New York-based
analyst with Jefferies & Co., said in an interview. “It says
that maybe they are not as bad as their last two projects would
have told you.”  The Chicago-based planemaker beat European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co. yesterday for a $3.5 billion contract to
build the first 18 tankers, extending its role as the sole
supplier of  Air Force  refueling aircraft since 1948. EADS was
part of a  Northrop Grumman Corp .-led team that won a 2008
contest, before a Boeing protest forced new bidding.  Boeing climbed $1.54, or 2.2 percent, to $72.30 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. That was the
biggest one-day advance since Jan. 18 and the second-largest
gain among the 30 stocks in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Building the tanker means Boeing can continue making the
wide-body 767 jet on which the plane is based. The backlog on
the 767 has dwindled to 50 orders as customers await the 787
Dreamliner, the composite-plastic plane now about three years
behind schedule.  ‘Great Boost’  “It keeps them in the tanker business,”  Scott Hamilton ,
an Issaquah, Washington-based aviation consultant for Leeham
Co., said in an interview. “This is a great boost to their
morale.”  The news was an antidote to Boeing’s struggles in recent
months with the Dreamliner and the 747-8 jumbo jet. The
passenger version of the 747-8 is a year late, and Boeing is
running two years behind schedule on the freighter model.  The total value of the tanker program will be about $30
billion, according to Daniel Beck, a Boeing spokesman, as the
military buys the rest of the planned 179 tankers to refresh the
fleet of Boeing KC-135s that entered service in the 1950s.  Among the questions now facing Boeing is whether it can
make money off the tankers, because the planemaker was so
competitive with the price, said Ken Herbert, a Wedbush
Securities analyst in  San Francisco  who, like Jefferies’ Rubel,
recommends buying Boeing.  Herbert said he expected that the Air Force would split the
award between Boeing and EADS to “minimize conflict and risk
with challenges and everything else.”  Washington and  Kansas   Boeing plans to do the main assembly work on the plane on
the 767 line in Everett, Washington, and finish it in Wichita,
Kansas. The program eventually will support as many as 50,000
jobs at Boeing and its suppliers, according to the company. A
spokeswoman, Leslie Hazzard, declined to say how many people the
767 program now employs.  Chief Executive Officer James McNerney alluded to the cost
pressures on the planemaker’s tanker bid in a Feb. 10
presentation to analysts at a Cowen & Co. conference, saying
Boeing had made an “aggressive” bid.  “The people in this room would be glad if we won at the
bid level that we’ve put in, and would be happy if we lost at a
lower level,” McNerney said.  The main value of Boeing’s win is keeping EADS away from a
franchise that the U.S. company has controlled for decades, said  Richard Aboulafia , a military aircraft analyst with Fairfax,
Virginia-based consultant Teal Group.  ‘Lot of Challenges’  “In terms of profits, this is not going to be an
incredibly lucrative program,” Aboulafia said. “It’s a lot of
challenges ahead. At the end of the day we’re talking about 14
planes a year. Even if they do get the profitability balance
right, it’s just a modest increase of revenue going forward.”  Boeing’s defense and space business produced $31.9 billion
in revenue in 2010, compared with $31.8 billion for the
commercial airplanes unit, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The tanker contract “carries some execution risks for
Boeing, given the company’s substantial cost overruns on some of
its commercial and military programs in recent years,” Roman Szuper, a  Standard & Poor’s  credit analyst in  New York , said
today in a note to investors.  S&P affirmed its “A” rating for Boeing, the sixth-highest
investment grade.  Procurement Scandal  Boeing’s first attempt at the tanker contract was derailed
in 2004 by a scandal involving former Air Force procurement
official Darleen Druyun and Michael Sears, then Boeing’s chief
financial officer. Sears was sentenced to four months in prison
for offering Druyun a job in October 2002 during the initial
tanker negotiations.  EADS, based in Munich and Paris, expected a win for its
solo entry after the victory in 2008 in tandem with Northrop
Grumman. The EADS tanker was based on the company’s Airbus SAS
A330 jetliner.  “This is certainly a disappointing turn of events,” EADS
North America Chairman Ralph D. Crosby Jr. said in a statement.  Boeing’s allies in Congress also were caught short. After
the Pentagon’s decision, the office of U.S. Representative Jay Inslee, a  Washington  Democrat, sent a news release with the
wrong subject heading, “Jay Inslee on tanker, ‘Decision will
not stand.’” A spokesman, Robert Kellar, replaced it with the
correct heading, “Best Choice Made for Next Gen Tanker.”  “We honestly had no idea what was going to happen,” said
Kellar, who had prepared statements for both possibilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  