-- 
Boeing Selects Cobham for Tanker Pods After Winning Order

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-02-25T12:46:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/boeing-selects-cobham-for-tanker-pods-after-winning-u-s-order.html
  Boeing Co . picked  Cobham Plc , the
world’s largest maker of airborne-refueling equipment, to equip
its fleet of new U.S. Air Force tanker jets, in a switch from
the supplier of gear used on aircraft for Japan and Italy.  Cobham, based in Dorset in the U.K., will supply the 179
KC-46A tanker aircraft with a hose and drogue refueling systems,
and will manufacture the equipment in Davenport, Iowa, the
company said in a statement today. The tankers Boeing built for
Japan and Italy used aerial refueling systems by  General
Electric Co .’s GE Aviation, formerly Smiths Aerospace.  “I can’t remember such a key supplier getting switched on
something like this,” said  Sandy Morris , an analyst at Royal
Bank of  Scotland  in London.  Boeing yesterday beat European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. for a contract to build the first 18 tankers, extending its
role as the sole supplier of Air Force refueling aircraft since
1948. EADS has won orders for its tanker, based on the A330
wide-body commercial jet, from countries including  Australia .  “With this selection we are the sole supplier of these
hose and drogue systems to Boeing on the KC-46 program,” Greg Caires, a Cobham spokesman, said in a telephone interview.
“We’ve had two independent teams, firewalled off from one
another, supporting the bids of both prime contractors.”  Confidentially agreements as part of the bid proposals mean
Cobham can’t say what work it would have had from a winning EADS
bid, he said. Cobham estimates the work could be worth up to $1
billion over the life of the project, and will be known about
the value when the deal is made final, he said.  EADS was part of a Northrop Grumman Corp.-led team that won
a 2008 contest, before a Boeing protest forced new bidding.  Cobham rose as much as 5.8 pence, or 2.7 percent, to 222.3
pence in  London  and traded at 221.8 percent at 12:20 p.m. local
time, valuing the company at 2.56 billion pounds ($4.12
billion). The stock has risen 9 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  