-- 
Bank of America Says Foreclosure Sales Resume in Most States

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-02-25T22:36:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/bofa-resumes-foreclosure-sales-in-most-u-s-states-after-fixing-procedures.html
  Bank of America Corp ., the largest
U.S. mortgage servicer, said it restarted foreclosure sales in
most U.S. states after fixing its practices and expects to
resume in the remaining states in the current quarter.  “We identified and implemented process and control
enhancements,” the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank said
today in a filing. “After these enhancements were put in place,
we resumed foreclosure sales in most states.”  Bank of America halted foreclosures in all 50 states in
October and announced in a Nov. 5 filing that it was reviewing
as many as 102,000 cases to screen for faulty practices.  Attorneys general  in all 50 states are investigating foreclosure
practices amid revelations that lenders were seizing homes
without proper documents to prove they had the right to do so.  Bank of America said the preparation of affidavits will
continue through the first quarter and could cause “prolonged
adversary proceedings” that slow some sales. The lender said it
has started “a rolling process” of preparing affidavits as
needed to complete property sales.  The bank joined  Wells Fargo & Co . in saying it may face an
enforcement action or a fine because of state and federal probes
of mortgage practices.  U.S. regulators may try to extract $20 billion of penalties
in a settlement with banks that serviced loans, two people
briefed on the talks said this week. Terms of an accord, from
regulators led by the Treasury Department and Department of
Housing and Urban Development, haven’t been formally presented
to banks, according to the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the discussions aren’t public.  Faulty Practices  The largest servicers have undertaken reviews to assess the
degree of faulty collection and foreclosure practices. Bank of
America was still reviewing cases in 27 U.S. states, as of the
Nov. 5 filing. Reviews in the 23 other states were complete and
foreclosure affidavits were being resubmitted, the bank said.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  earlier this
month separated the duties of resolving problem mortgages from
the tasks of originating new business and servicing loans,
promoting Terry Laughlin to head a new unit. Laughlin, a former
FleetBoston Financial Inc. colleague of Moynihan’s, will be in
charge of modifying delinquent mortgages, handling foreclosures
and resolving investor disputes over faulty loans.  Bank of America is the largest U.S. mortgage servicer,
according to industry newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance. The
company oversaw $2.06 trillion in home loans at the end of 2010,
according to an earnings presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 