-- 
Bank of America, KPMG Win Countrywide Settlement Approval

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-02-26T01:14:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/bofa-kpmg-win-approval-for-601-5-million-settlement-in-countrywide-case.html
Countrywide Financial Corp., the
mortgage lender acquired by  Bank of America Corp ., and KPMG LLP,
its former auditor, won final approval for a $601.5 million
minimum settlement with Countrywide investors suing for  securities fraud .  U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer in Los Angeles today
approved the settlement of the class action, which was revised
in December to set aside $22.5 million for possible separate
settlements after about two dozen institutional investors,
including the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System ,
opted out of the original $624 million agreement.  “There’s no reason to believe there was lack of
fairness,” Pfaelzer said at the hearing. “I recognize how
vigorously contested every issue in this litigation has been.”  The judge also approved $46.5 million plus interest to be
paid from the settlement in fees for the plaintiffs’ lawyers and
$8.1 million plus interest for their expenses.  The New York State Common Retirement Fund and five New York
City pension funds are the lead plaintiffs in the case. They
claimed former Countrywide Chief Executive Officer  Angelo Mozilo 
and other executives hid from them that the company was fueling
its growth by letting underwriting standards deteriorate.  Joel Bernstein, a lawyer for the New York funds, said at
the hearing that, according to the plaintiffs’ experts, the most
they could have recovered if the case had gone to trial would
have been $2.8 billion.  ‘No Way to Tell’  “There’s no way to tell what a jury could award in
damages,” Bernstein said. “The jury verdict could have been
less than the settlement.”  At least three of the investors that opted out of the
settlement, a group of Michigan public retirement funds that
claims $65 million in losses, a group of Oregon funds with $14
million in alleged losses, and a Fresno,  California , retirement
fund, have filed new complaints.  Oregon officials said in a Jan. 26 press release that the
class-action settlement would have provided the state’s pension
and workers’ compensation funds with only $500,000 for their
losses.  Bank of America acquired Calabasas, California-based
Countrywide, which was the biggest U.S. home lender, in July of
2008. Brian Pastuszenski, a lawyer for Bank of America, said at
the hearing that the settlement doesn’t imply an admission by
the bank that any laws were violated. They entered into a
settlement to resolve the matter without further expenses and
distractions, he said.  Preliminary Approval  Pfaelzer gave preliminary approval to the $624 million
settlement in August. The lead plaintiffs subsequently asked the
judge to approve a revised settlement that set aside $22.5
million for settlements with the funds that opted out. Pfaelzer
tentatively approved the modified settlement last month.  Lawyers for the plaintiffs said in a Feb. 4 request for
final approval that “certain” class members will also get a
share of $48.15 million in additional cash from the Securities
and Exchange Commission’s settlement with Mozilo and two other
former Countrywide executives.  Mozilo, 72, agreed in October to pay a $22.5 million
penalty and $45 million in disgorgement to settle the SEC’s
claims that he misled investors. Bank of America said at the
time it would provide the money for the disgorgement Mozilo and
former Chief Operating Officer David Sambol had to pay.  Mozilo Suit  The SEC sued Mozilo, Sambol and former Chief Financial
Officer  Eric Sieracki  in June 2009, saying they publicly
reassured investors about the quality of Countrywide’s loans
while knowing since at least the beginning of 2005 that the
lender was originating an increasing number of risky subprime
loans.  The U.S.  Justice Department  closed its investigation of
possible criminal wrongdoing by Mozilo without bringing charges,
a person familiar with the investigation said Feb. 19.  The $601.5 million securities class action settlement is
the 14th largest since the enactment of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, lawyers for the New York funds
said in the Feb. 4 filing.  The case is In re Countrywide Financial Corp. Securities
Litigation, 07-05295, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California   Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  