-- 
Bowel Cancer Risk Lowered by Reducing Consumption of Red, Processed Meat

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-02-25T12:54:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/bowel-cancer-risk-lowered-by-reducing-consumption-of-red-processed-meat.html
People should consider cutting down
the amount of red and processed meat they eat to reduce the risk
of developing bowel cancer, the U.K. government said.  People who consume more than about 90 grams (3.2 ounces) a
day are at greater risk of getting bowel cancer, which kills
16,500 people in Britain every year, the  Department of Health
said , urging them to reduce their intake to 70 grams. Forty-two
percent of men eat more than 90 grams every day on average,
compared with 12 percent of women.  “Red meat can be part of a healthy balanced diet. It is a
good source of protein and vitamins and minerals, such as iron,
selenium, zinc and B vitamins,” Chief Medical Officer Sally
Davies said in a statement. “But people who eat a lot of red
and processed meat should consider cutting down. The occasional
steak or extra few slices of lamb is fine, but regularly eating
a lot could increase your risk of bowel cancer.”  The government issued the recommendation after the U.K.’s
Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition published a  study 
today concluding that there would be no significant decrease in
iron in the British population’s diet if meat consumption was
cut to the British average of 70 grams a day.  A 70-gram portion is equivalent to one lamb chop, two
slices of roast meat or six slices of salami, the  Department of
Health  said.  “We’re not saying men can’t occasionally enjoy a bacon
sandwich or some sausages for breakfast -- but the evidence
tells us we need to think about cutting down on how much red and
processed meat we’re eating,” Peter Baker, the chief executive
of the  Men’s Health Forum , a London-based charity, said in the
statement. “This is a health benefit surely worth giving up a
few sausages for.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  