-- 
Brazil Primary Surplus Widened to 17.7 Billion Reais

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-02-25T18:06:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/brazil-january-budget-deficit-at-1-53-billion-reais-correct-.html
Brazil’s budget surplus before
interest payments widened more than expected in January after
regional governments posted a record surplus, the central bank
said. The figure was Brazil’s highest primary surplus since
September, when government revenues were boosted by selling oil
rights to state oil producer  Petroleo Brasileiro SA .  The primary surplus, which includes federal and local
governments as well as state companies, widened to 17.7 billion
reais ($10.7 billion) in January, up from $10.9 billion in
December, the central bank said in a statement distributed today
in Brasilia. The surplus was wider than the 15.1 billion reais
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of nine analysts.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration pledged to slash
50 billion reais from this year’s budget to help the central
bank contain inflation accelerating at the fastest pace in
almost eight years. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said Feb. 9
the cuts would be implemented to ensure the country meets its
primary surplus target of 117.9 billion reais this year.  Brazil 
missed its target last year.  “Both the federal and regional governments’ results
improved, and this is a good sign,” Felipe Salto, an analyst at
Tendencias Consultoria Integrada, said in a phone interview from
Sao Paulo. The numbers show “there is a good chance the fiscal
target will be met.”  Primary Surplus  The federal government posted a primary surplus of 16.9
billion reais, from 11.8 billion in December. State and local
governments posted a 4.5 billion surplus in January after
posting a 3.9 billion reais deficit in December. Brazil had a
primary surplus of 103.4 billion reais in the 12 months through
January.  “Regional governments posted their best result on record
in January,” Tulio Maciel, deputy head of the central bank’s
economic department, told reporters in Brasilia today.  Net debt declined to 40.1 percent of gross domestic product
from 40.4 percent in December, the central bank said. Net debt
will fall to 37.8 percent of gross domestic product by year-end,
down from 40.1 percent in January, Maciel said. The central bank
expects the ratio to remain unchanged at 40.1 percent in
February, Maciel added.  Yields on interest rate futures contracts maturing in July
2011, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell seven basis
points to 12.14 percent at 12:59 p.m. New York time.  Budget Deficit  The budget deficit after interest payments narrowed to 1.53
billion reais from 8.7 billion reais in December, the central
bank said.  Traders are wagering that the central bank may raise
borrowing costs by at least 50 basis points, or 0.50 percentage
point, to 11.75 percent at its March 1-2 policy meeting,
interest-rate futures contracts show.  Every one-percentage-point increase in the benchmark
interest rate tends to increase the net debt-to-GDP ratio by 0.3
percentage point over a year, Maciel said.  Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA-15 index rose 0.97
percent in the month through mid-February. Annual inflation was
6.08 percent in the year through mid-February, close to the
upper limit of the central bank’s target range of 4.5 percent
plus or minus two percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Matthew Bristow} in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
{Andre Soliani} in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  