-- 
Pound Tumbles to February Low Against Euro on Economy; Two-Year Gilts Rise

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-02-25T17:22:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/british-pound-weakens-against-euro-before-gross-domestic-product-report.html
The pound fell against the dollar
and reached its weakest level this month versus the euro after
the U.K. economy shrank more than estimated, prompting investors
to reduce bets on higher  interest rates .  Sterling declined 1.2 percent against the U.S. currency
this week. Gross domestic product fell 0.6 percent from the
previous three months, compared with an initial estimate of a
0.5 percent drop, the  Office for National Statistics  said today
in London. Two-year gilts gained as investors reduced wagers on
higher rates.  “The market didn’t really see this coming so it presents
an opportunity for some traders to take profit on sterling and
that’s why it’s taking a bit of a tumble,” said Chris Huddleston, a trader at Investec Bank Plc in London. “It still
doesn’t fundamentally alter the view that rates will need to
rise in the next six months or so. This is a blip, not a change
in the trend outlook for rates.”  Sterling dropped 0.4 percent to $1.6079 as of 5:20 p.m. in  London , declining for a second day. The pound was little changed
at 85.54 pence per euro, after losing as much as 0.5 percent to
85.93 pence, the weakest intraday level since Jan. 31. It
dropped 1.5 percent against the dollar in the week.  Britain’s currency has gained 3.1 percent against the
dollar this year and 0.5 percent this month amid mounting
speculation the  Bank of England  will need to raise its benchmark
rate from 0.5 percent to curb inflation. Consumer-price growth
accelerated to 4 percent last month, a report on Feb. 15 showed.
That was the 14th consecutive month that it remained above the 2
percent target.  Diverging Views  Central bank Governor Mervyn King this month dismissed the
spurt in inflation as temporary, saying lifting rates too
quickly would hurt the economic recovery. While the bank left
its key rate at a record low on Feb. 10, three policy makers
voted to increase borrowing costs, with Spencer Dale joining  Andrew Sentance  and  Martin Weale . Policy makers will announce
their next rate decision on March 10.  The pound stayed lower against the dollar even as a report
showed the  U.S. economy  grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, slower than previously calculated and less than
forecast. The revised number compares with a 3.2 percent
estimate last month and a 2.6 percent gain in the third quarter,
figures from the Commerce Department showed today in  Washington .  The implied yield on the December short-sterling futures
contract tumbled nine basis points to 1.61 percent, the lowest
since Feb. 1, as traders reduced bets borrowing costs will rise.  ‘Shine Off Sterling’  “We’ve seen interest-rate markets price in expectations
for hikes of up to one percentage point this year,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate
Bank Ltd. in London. “That’s probably stretching it a bit,
given that growth is being revised downwards.  “That takes some of the shine off of sterling as traders
liquidate some of their long pound positions,” Jones said.  Investors bet the Bank of  England  will push back rate
increases after the GDP report. Money market traders have
factored in a 25 basis-point increase by June, compared with
yesterday’s expectations for a rise in May, according to the
sterling overnight interbank average, or Sonia. The  bank rate 
will be at 1 percent by October from the record low 0.5 percent
the central bank has maintained since March 2009, the data
compiled by Tullett Prebon Plc shows. Earlier bets had been for
a September rise.  Officials must start raising interest rates from a record
low “gradually” to prevent being forced to tighten policy too
aggressively later, Sentance said in a speech entitled “Ten
Good Reasons to Tighten” delivered in London late yesterday.  “The risk of delaying interest-rate rises too long is that
this gradual approach may cease to be an option in the future,”
he said.  Two-year gilts rose, with yields falling five basis points
to 1.41 percent. The 4.5 percent security due March 2013 rose
0.075, or 75 pence per 1,000-pound face amount, to 106.140. Ten-
year yields were little changed at 3.62 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  