-- 
British Airways Owner IAG Reports Lower-Than-Expected Profit

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-02-25T07:50:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/british-airways-owner-iag-posts-lower-than-expected-fourth-quarter-profit.html
International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA, formed from the combination of British Airways and
Iberia, reported a lower-than-expected fourth-quarter profit
because of U.K. storms and restructuring costs.  Earnings before interest and taxes for the two airlines
rose to 6 million euros ($8.3 million) in the three months
ending Dec. 31 from a loss of 114 million euros a year earlier,
the London-based carrier said in a statement. Profit missed the
191 million-euro average estimate of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Revenue gained 13 percent to 3.81 billion euros.  The company, reporting results for the first time since
being formed Jan. 24, said revenue was reduced by 71 million
euros after the U.K.’s coldest December in a century forced
Heathrow’s closure for several days and a Spanish air traffic
controllers’ strike caused flight cancellations. The airline
also booked charges of 119 million euros for Iberia’s
restructuring and merger completion costs, it said today.  The airline faces the threat of higher fuel prices raising
costs. The price of oil has surged to its highest in 29 months
amid concern that the turmoil in  Libya  will reduce supplies.  “The short-haul market continues to be highly
competitive,” the carrier said in the statement. “We are
monitoring the impact of the current Middle East instability on
fuel prices and have the flexibility to change our capacity
plans if necessary.”  Acquisition Plans  Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh , seeking to garner as
much as 400 million euros annually in synergies by the fifth
year of the merger, is keen to add more carriers to the group
following the combination’s completion. Walsh said Feb. 22 IAG
would consider adding a discount carrier, using it to feed
short-haul traffic into BA and Iberia’s long-haul network.  Fourth-quarter net income reached 90 million euros,
compared with a loss of 130 million euros, on tax gains and a
credit related to financial assets, the company said today.  British Airways posted net income of 170 million pounds in
the nine months ending Dec. 31, compared with a loss of 425
million pounds a year earlier, IAG said. The combined carrier is
shifting to calendar year financial reporting.  Iberia, headquartered in  Madrid , logged net income of 89
million euros for 2010, compared with a loss of 273 million
euros a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  