-- 
Caesars Posts Quarterly Loss Amid Atlantic City Declines

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-02-25T18:08:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/caesars-posts-quarterly-loss-amid-atlantic-city-declines-2-.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp., the
world’s biggest casino company, reported a fourth-quarter loss
after cost cuts and the acquisition of a  Las Vegas  casino failed
to offset declines in  Atlantic City ,  New Jersey , properties.  The net loss of $196.7 million compares with a profit of
$295.6 million a year earlier, when earnings were boosted by a
gain from extinguishing debt early, the Las Vegas-based company,
formerly called Harrah’s, said today in a statement. Sales rose
1 percent to $2.12 billion, and a measure of  cash flow  climbed.  Las Vegas casinos are beginning to recover following record
declines since Caesars was taken private in a January 2008
buyout. Caesars canceled a planned initial public offering last
year, after Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Gary Loveman
reduced costs, slashed debt and extended maturities in a series
of balance sheet restructurings.  “The recovery in  consumer spending  has been late to find
itself in the gaming sector,” Loveman said today on a
conference call. Recovery is now underway as “group business
bookings are stronger in Las Vegas,” and high-roller VIP
business is “bouncing back”.  Cash flow, measured as adjusted earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, increased 5.1 percent to
$439.9 million in the quarter.  Atlantic City  Las Vegas casino cash flow gained 5.2 percent to $183.7
million, boosted by the addition of Planet Hollywood. In
Atlantic City, where Harrah’s owns four casinos, Ebitda tumbled
51 percent to $32.9 million.  Gambling revenue in Atlantic City has fallen 31 percent in
2010 from its 2006 peak, New Jersey Casino Control Commission
data shows, largely due to intensifying competition in nearby
states.  Caesars has cut $648.8 million in costs since being taken
private and aims to trim a further $207.5 million, the company
said today.  The company canceled its IPO in November, citing “market
conditions.” The IPO aimed to raise more than $500 million for
expansion, including finishing the Octavius Tower at Caesars Las
Vegas, and developing the LINQ retail and entertainment area
next to the Flamingo. The company yesterday priced a $400
million loan to fund the projects.    Leon Black ’s Apollo Management LP and  David Bonderman ’s TPG
Inc. took Las Vegas-based Caesars private for $30.7 billion,
including debt and transaction costs.  Caesars will invest in and run two casinos in Cleveland and
Cincinnati,  Ohio , being developed by  Dan Gilbert , the founder
and chairman of  Quicken Loans Inc. , the venture, Rock Ohio
Caesars LLC said in December.  The company bought the Planet Hollywood Resort & Casino
from default a year ago, gaining a Las Vegas Strip property next
to its other resorts for less than it would cost to build.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  