-- 
California Panel Calls for Cuts to Government Workers’ Pensions

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-02-25T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/california-panel-urges-freeze-restructuring-of-public-employee-pensions.html
California should scale back pension
promises to public workers and reshape the benefits system to
make it similar to those used in industry to rein in costs, a
state oversight panel recommended.  Government pension costs are no longer sustainable, the
independent  Little Hoover Commission  said yesterday. It called
on lawmakers and Democratic Governor  Jerry Brown  to  hold
benefits  at current levels and recalculate yet-to-be-earned
payments under a new hybrid that includes elements of a
traditional  pension plan  and a 401(k) account where
beneficiaries bear the  investment risk .  The rising cost and underfunding of public employee
pensions has sparked a national debate, most recently in  Wisconsin  where Republican Governor  Scott Walker  has asked the
Legislature to boost contributions from state workers.
California’s 10 largest public pension funds were short a
combined $240 billion in 2010, the commission found.  “California’s pension plans are dangerously underfunded,
the result of overly generous benefit promises, wishful thinking
and an unwillingness to plan prudently,” commission President
Daniel Hancock said in a letter to lawmakers and Brown
yesterday. “Unless aggressive reforms are implemented now, the
problem will get far worse, forcing counties and cities to
severely reduce services and lay off employees to meet pension
obligations.”  Rising Contribution  The state’s contributions to its pensions are expected to
rise 10.8 percent to $2.4 billion next year, according to a
summary of the governor’s budget plan.  “Any change must honor the promises made to all public
servants,” said  Brad Pacheco , a spokesman for the  California
Public Employees’ Retirement System , the nation’s largest
pension fund with  $229 billion  in assets. “We recognize that
pension costs are a source of fiscal concern.”  Ricardo Duran, a spokesman for the California State
Teachers’ Retirement System, known as Calstrs, the second-
largest U.S. fund, said that “any recommendation that weakens
the financial security of our members” would not be
“constructive.”  “This includes recommendations that suggest breaking long-
held legal decisions protecting vested pension rights,” he
said.  State and local governments need the authority to
restructure future, unearned retirement benefits for their
employees, the commission said, even though doing so may require
courts to reverse previous decisions protecting benefits of
current employee.  Salary Calculations  The commission also recommended that salaries for
calculating pensions be capped at $90,000 and that lawmakers
enact a prohibition on granting new benefits retroactively.  Many of the Hoover proposals, including the limits on so-
called spiking of pay in the latter years of employment to boost
pensions, caps on salaries and the ban on retroactive increases,
had been advocated by the  California Foundation for Fiscal
Responsibility , a pension-reform group.  “All of that is consistent with what we’re recommending,”
said Marcia Fritz, the foundation’s president, in a telephone
interview. “I love it.”  Brown has proposed a combination of spending cuts and tax
extensions to close a $25.4 billion budget gap over the next
year and half. While the governor has said current pension plans
should be defended, he said reforms are needed.  Joel Fox, a Republican political consultant in  Los Angeles ,
said the Wisconsin protests gave ammunition to California
Republicans pushing Brown for pension changes in exchange for
their endorsement of his budget plan.  “He may be forced to go there by Wisconsin,” Fox said.  The Little Hoover Commission, created in 1962, was modeled
after a federal commission chaired by former President  Herbert Hoover  that was charged with recommending changes to the federal
government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net  and
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  