-- 
California Regulators May Fine PG&E for Gas Pipeline Blast

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-02-25T01:27:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/california-regulators-may-fine-pg-e-for-gas-pipeline-blast-1-.html
The California Public Utilities
Commission will consider if  PG&E Corp . should face fines as the
regulator investigates what caused an explosion at one of the
company’s natural gas pipelines near San Francisco last year.  The commission will determine whether PG&E broke record-
keeping laws for its transmission pipeline system, Commissioner
Mike Florio said today at a press briefing. The action was
spurred by safety recommendations from the  National
Transportation Safety Board  after investigators found PG&E’s
records incorrectly identified the ruptured pipe as seamless
while it had seams and welds, Florio said.  PG&E could face state fines of $20,000 per violation per
day, Florio said. “The NTSB’s reports have presented us with
sufficient information and good cause to commence a penalty
consideration,” he said.  PG&E has been reviewing its pipeline records and expects to
turn in the initial results to the commission on March 15, Joe
Molica, a company spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  The federal  board said  last month that problems with
records could create conditions in which a pipeline is operated
at a higher pressure than it was built to withstand.  California 
regulators ordered PG&E to reduce pressure on some of its lines
as a result of the finding.  The federal safety board has yet to determine what caused
the Sept. 9 blast that killed eight people and destroyed 37
homes in San Bruno, California. The board will hold public
hearings March 1 to March 3 in  Washington  on the incident and
may complete its investigation by September, Chairman Deborah Hersman said today.  Separately, the commission voted today to set new pipeline
safety rules including possible requirements for installation of
automatic shut-off valves and upgrades that allow for interior
pipe inspections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 