-- 
Canada's Largest Companies Boosted Quarterly Investment, Led by Energy

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-02-25T15:24:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/canada-s-largest-companies-boosted-quarterly-investment-led-by-energy.html
Canada’s largest companies, led by
oil and gas producers, accelerated their  capital spending  at the
end of last year, suggesting investment by the nation’s energy
businesses is helping to drive the nation’s expansion.  Capital spending by companies on the Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index that have reported results this earnings season
rose at a 27 percent seasonally adjusted annual rate in the
latest quarter, after declining at a 1 percent pace in the
previous period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Recent reports have given mixed signals about whether firms
were able to sustain their investment pace at the end of last
year. Import data suggest spending slowed in the fourth quarter
while a  Bank of Canada survey  indicates the outlook for business
expenditures remained buoyant. Business investment was the
biggest contributor to Canadian growth in the third quarter,
Statistics  Canada   data show .  “Rates are relatively low, profits are pretty high,
companies have to park their money somewhere and also invest,”
said Rudy Narvas, a senior economist with  Societe Generale  in  New York . “I still have some faith in the Bank of Canada
survey, it tends to be a really good indicator” for business
investment, he said.  Canada’s gross domestic product report for the fourth
quarter will be released Feb. 28 at 8:30 a.m. New York time.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg project Canada’s growth
accelerated to a 3 percent annual rate in the October-December
period, from 1 percent in the third quarter, according to the
median of 14 forecasts.  Investment Intentions  The  Bank of Canada ’s quarterly business outlook survey
released last month found that 44 percent of companies said they
expect to increase machinery and equipment investment over the
next 12 months. That compares with 46 percent in the third
quarter, which was the highest recording since the recession.  Trade data released earlier this month, though, showed
imports of capital goods fell at a 7.5 percent annual pace in
the fourth quarter, after growth of 29 percent in the third
quarter and 40 percent in the second quarter.  In a Feb. 18  report , BMO Capital Markets Economics
estimated annualized business investment growth in machinery and
equipment probably slowed to 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter,
from 29 percent the previous quarter.  “Frankly, when we try to do those quarterly numbers,
there’s one thing we look at and that’s just machinery and
equipment imports in real terms, it’s a very good coincident
indicator of overall business investment on machinery,” said  Doug Porter , deputy chief economist at BMO Capital Markets.
“After three incredibly powerful quarters, we saw this major
slowdown in the fourth-quarter.”  Business Survey  The Bank of Canada predicts that businesses will increase
outlays this year. Less than half of the decline in business
investment that occurred during the last recession has been
recovered, the Bank of Canada said in its Monetary Policy  Report 
last month. The central bank, which anticipates that business
outlays slowed in the fourth quarter, projects business fixed
investment will contribute 1.1 percentage points to the
country’s 2.4 percent growth rate forecast for 2011.  Investment by the 95 companies that reported earnings
between Jan. 10 and Feb. 24 totaled C$22.2 billion in the latest
quarter. Investment rose at a 43 percent rate in the April-June
period before declining in the third quarter of last year,
Bloomberg data showed.  Energy Companies  Six companies recorded more than C$1 billion in  capital
expenditures  in the fourth quarter. Four are energy firms --  Suncor Energy Inc .,  Encana Corp .,  Talisman Energy Inc . and  Imperial Oil Ltd . -- while TransCanada Corp. is a pipeline
company and  Barrick Gold Corp . is the world’s largest producer
of the metal.  Oil and gas companies increased capital spending at a 28
percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, according to the
Bloomberg data.  Canadian energy companies are benefiting from rising
commodity prices, fueled by growing demand in emerging markets
such as  China . Oil prices have also risen as protests in North
Africa have raised concerns that supplies from the region may be
at risk.  Crude oil climbed to $103.41 barrel Feb. 24, the highest in
29 months on an intraday basis, amid escalating violence in  Libya . Canada sits on the largest pool of oil reserves outside
of the Middle East.  Canadian businesses are also taking advantage of a stronger
dollar that is making imported machinery cheaper. Canada’s
dollar has advanced 8 percent against the  U.S. dollar  over the
past six months.  Separately, a Statistics Canada survey published today
showed Canadian non-residential investment will rise 4 percent
in 2011 as governments scale back stimulus spending.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  