-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Falls on Mild Weather, Ample Supplies

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-02-25T17:35:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/canadian-natural-gas-falls-on-mild-weather-ample-supplies.html
Canadian natural gas for April
delivery fell amid forecasts of mild weather in the U.S. and a
report that stored reserves were higher last week than analysts
forecast.  Demand for heat across the U.S. will trail normal by 11
percent, according to Belton, Missouri-based forecaster Weather
Derivatives. Highs in Chicago, one of the biggest consuming
areas of  Canada ’s gas output, will reach 51 degrees Fahrenheit
(11 Celsius) on March 4, about 8 degrees above normal,  State
College , Pennsylvania-based forecaster AccuWeather Inc. said.  Stocks of gas in U.S. underground storage fell 81 billion
cubic feet to 1.83 trillion last week, according to an Energy
Department report released yesterday. Inventories had been
forecast to drop 83 billion cubic feet, the average of analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.    Alberta  gas for April delivery fell 0.25 cent to C$3.21 per
gigajoule ($3.10 per million Btu) as of 11:45 a.m. New York
time, according to  NGX,  a Canadian Internet market. Gas traded
on the exchange is shipped to users in Canada and the U.S.
Northeast, Midwest and West Coast.  Natural gas for April delivery rose 4.4 cents to $3.916 per
million Btu on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.  Alberta System  Volume on  TransCanada’s  Alberta system, the biggest gas-
gathering network in the nation, dropped to 16 billion cubic
feet, 328 million below its target, as of 11:30 a.m. in New York
as temperatures in Calgary dropped as low as minus 31 Celsius
with wind chill exceeding minus 40.  Cold weather in the producing region causes wells to freeze
and processing equipment to work less efficiently, limiting
supplies. Volume on the Alberta gathering system slipped 140
million cubic feet in the last 24 hours.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 3.75 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the  Chicago  area, the
daily flow rate was 1.85 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 972 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.79 billion cubic feet today, about 65 percent of
capacity.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 3.06
billion cubic feet at 10:50 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 