-- 
Carrefour, ProSieben, Adidas May Increase Dividends Next Week

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-02-25T17:39:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/carrefour-prosieben-adidas-may-increase-dividends-next-week.html
  Carrefour SA ,  ProSiebenSat.1 Media
AG  and Adidas AG are among 52 companies in the Stoxx Europe 600
Index that may boost dividends next week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Carrefour, the world’s second-largest retailer, may raise
its annual payout to 1.13 euros a share from 1.08 euros,
according to Bloomberg forecasts. ProSiebenSat’s payout will
likely climb to 75 euro cents from 2 cents, the data show.
Adidas may double last year’s payment to 70 cents a share.  Companies in the Stoxx 600 may lift dividends by 11 percent
in the next fiscal year, according to analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Operating profit margins in the index
have risen to 18.9 percent of revenue in the past 12 months, up
from 16.2 percent a year earlier, Bloomberg data show.  Carrefour, based in Paris, and ProSiebenSat,  Germany ’s
biggest private broadcaster, are due to announce their dividends
when they report earnings on March 3. Adidas, the German
sporting-goods maker, is scheduled to announce its dividend and
financial results a day earlier.  Aixtron AG, a German maker of equipment for the
semiconductor industry, and  SEB SA , the world’s largest maker of
countertop kitchen appliances, may also boost dividends next
week, the data show.    Parmalat SpA , Italy’s biggest dairy company, may on March 2
reduce its annual payment to 6 cents per share from 6.3 cents,
according to Bloomberg forecasts. Verbund AG, Austria’s biggest
utility, may say the same day that it will pay 70 cents for
2010, from a total of 1.25 euros the previous year in special
and regular payments.    Continental AG , Europe’s second-biggest tiremaker, is
likely to omit a dividend for the third year in a row on March
3, the data show.  Overall, Bloomberg forecasts covered 72 expected dividend
announcements for next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 