-- 
Sheen's Comments Prompt CBS, Warner Bros. to Shutter `Two and a Half Men'

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-02-25T05:00:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/cbs-warner-bros-discontinue-sheen-tv-show-citing-behavior.html
  CBS Corp . and  Time Warner Inc .’s
Warner Bros. unit stopped production of “Two and a Half Men,”
citing the behavior and remarks of star  Charlie Sheen .  “Based on the totality of Charlie Sheen’s statements,
conduct and condition, CBS and  Warner Bros. Television  have
decided to discontinue production of ‘Two and a Half Men’ for
the remainder of the season,” the companies said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement.  The move by producer Warner Bros. and CBS, broadcaster of
“Two and a Half Men,” follow comments Sheen made in interviews
with TMZ celebrity website and with radio host Alex Jones. Sheen
denounced the show’s creator, Chuck Lorre, both outlets
reported. Sheen said Lorre was “stupid” and cost the actor and
his cast money, TMZ reported. On  radio , he called Lorre a
“clown” with a “tin can” show Sheen turned into “gold.”  Warner Bros. has produced 16 of the 24 episodes CBS ordered
this season, the show’s eighth. “Two and a Half Men” is the
most-watched comedy on television.  TMZ is owned by New York-based Time Warner.  “It’s more about next season,”  David Bank , an analyst at
RBC  Capital Markets in  New York , said in an e-mail. “If the
show goes away, it’s bad.”  Sheen, whose substance-abuse problems caused a hiatus of
taping on Jan. 28, told syndicated radio host Jones that he’s
“100 percent” sober.  “It’s all good,” Sheen said on the show. “Quit
panicking.”  January Rehab  CBS, based in New York, and Warner Bros. issued a joint
statement on Jan. 28 saying they were “profoundly concerned for
Sheen’s health and well-being,” and said they supported his
decision to enter a rehabilitation center.  Production was to resume on Feb. 28,  USA Today  reported on
Feb. 17, citing a person with knowledge of the situation. At the
time, the newspaper said four more episodes would be produced
for this season, bringing the total to 20.  CBS, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , rose 27 cents
to $22.03 yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares have climbed 16 percent this year. Time
Warner, based in New York, gained 15 cents to $37.42 and has
climbed 16 percent in 2011.  When taping was interrupted in January, CBS issued a
statement saying that the financial impact of the shutdown
wasn’t material.  “Any ratings declines will be more than offset by the
reduced programming costs for episodes lost this season,” Chris Ender, a spokesman for the network, said then.  “This isn’t a huge deal for either of these companies,
unless the show doesn’t come back next year,” said Michael Nathanson, an analyst with Nomura Securities in New York, said
yesterday. “It won’t hit them this year. But down the road,
they won’t have those episodes to syndicate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  