-- 
Centro U.S. Assets Said to Draw 3 Bids of at Least $9 Billion

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-02-25T21:48:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/centro-s-u-s-assets-said-to-draw-at-least-3-bids-of-9-billion-or-more.html
  Centro Properties Group , the
Australian developer seeking to sell 588 shopping centers in the
U.S., received at least three bids of $9 billion or more for the
assets, according to people with knowledge of the matter.  The offers were from  Blackstone Group LP ; a group
comprising Morgan Stanley, Starwood Capital Group LLC and
Paulson & Co.; and a team of  NRDC Equity Partners LLC  and  AREA
Property Partners , according to the people, who asked not to be
identified because the bidding is private.  Centro put its assets up for sale after a U.S. acquisition
spree from 2003 to the market peak in 2007 left it with debt it
couldn’t refinance when the global credit markets seized up. The
company plans to complete the restructuring before December,
when A$3.1 billion (US$3.1 billion) of debt matures, Chief
Executive Officer Robert Tsenin said yesterday.  Adam Soffer, a spokesman for Melbourne-based Centro,
declined to comment today, as did representatives for all the
bidders said to be involved. The Wall Street Journal reported
the offers late yesterday.  Centro has narrowed the range of potential buyers for its
U.S. assets and is evaluating the offers as they come in, Tsenin
said in a conference call yesterday, when the company released
earnings for the first half ended Dec. 31.  The landlord’s new lenders --  hedge funds  that bought the
company’s debt from the banks that originally held it -- “would
consider taking equity positions in the company through debt-
equity swaps,” Tsenin said during the call.  New Plan Purchase  Centro’s U.S. acquisitions were capped by the 2007 purchase
of New Plan Excel Realty Trust for $5.2 billion including
assumed debt. New Plan had stakes in 467 shopping centers in 38
states.    Morgan Stanley  and Barry Sternlicht’s Starwood Capital are
teaming with hedge fund manager  John Paulson ’s firm, according
to the people with knowledge of the matter.  NRDC Equity Partners, based in Purchase,  New York , was
founded in 2006 by Robert C. Baker and Richard A. Baker, of
National Realty Development Corp., along with William Mack and
Lee Neibart, who also run AREA Property Partners, formerly
Apollo Real Estate Advisors.  Centro and the funds it manages own 588 properties in the
U.S., including 556 community and neighborhood shopping centers,
seven malls and lifestyle centers, 11 “miscellaneous”
properties and nine land parcels, according to company
statements. It also owns five U.S. redevelopment properties.  Base Rents  The 556 shopping centers and four redevelopment sites were
88.1 percent leased as of Dec. 31, Centro said. They generated
annual base rents of $813.6 million, according to the company.  Discount retailer TJX Cos. is the largest tenant in
Centro’s U.S. centers, followed by supermarket chain  Kroger Co .,  Sears Holdings Corp ., Ahold USA Inc.,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc . and  Dollar Tree Inc ., according to Centro statements.  The U.S. shopping centers are located in 39 of the 50
states, with 81 in  Texas , 44 in Pennsylvania, 43 in  Florida , 40
in New York, 39 in  Georgia , and 36 in  Ohio , according to Centro.  The company pursued a strategy from 2002 to 2007 of forming
funds to buy assets in order to reduce debt on its balance sheet
and earn income from management fees. The strategy backfired
when the global financial crisis hit, causing property values to
plummet and borrowing costs to soar, leaving Centro unable to
refinance its ballooning debt.  Repaying Debt  Attempts since then to raise enough capital to repay the
debt have been largely unsuccessful, and former CEO Glenn
Rufrano, who took over from Andrew Scott in January 2008, left
two years later, to be replaced by Tsenin. Rufrano had become
head of Centro’s U.S. business when the company acquired New
Plan, where he was CEO.  The company still faces “significant financial and
operational challenges” from its  capital structure  and foreign
exchange and interest rate movements, Tsenin said yesterday.  The majority of Centro’s assets are owned by the funds it
manages on behalf of the company and outside investors. These
funds include publicly traded Centro Retail Trust. Centro
Properties owns about 25 percent of Centro Retail Trust, and two
other Centro-managed funds own about 26 percent, with the
remaining 49 percent publicly held.  Centro Properties manages and has a stake in 40 different
funds. Its stakes range from 1 percent to more than 60 percent,
with the average about 50 percent by asset value, according to
the company.  The company’s shares closed at A$0.15 yesterday in Sydney
trading, having fallen more than 98 percent over the past four
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  