-- 
Peru’s Cerro Verde Copper Expansion May Cost $3.5 Billion

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-02-25T18:07:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/cerro-verde-expansion-may-cost-3-5-billion-benavides-says.html
  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc .
and partner Cia. de Minas Buenaventura SA are studying a $3.5
billion expansion of their Cerro Verde copper mine, Buenaventura
Chief Executive Officer Roque Benavides said.  An expansion that could triple copper treatment capacity at
Peru’s third-largest copper mine depends on water and mine waste
storage availability, Benavides said today on a conference call
with analysts.  Peru  is the world’s second-largest copper
producer after  Chile .  “A feasibility study on whether to double or triple
treatment capacity should be ready within the next couple of
weeks,” Benavides said. “Cerro Verde has a huge resource that
can and will be developed.”  Phoenix-based Freeport and Buenaventura are seeking to
expand Cerro Verde after the price of copper tripled over the
past two years. The mine, in which Buenaventura holds a 19
percent stake, produced 302,711 metric tons of copper last year
and contributed $72 million to fourth-quarter profit, for the
first time higher than its 44 percent stake in  Newmont Mining
Corp .’s Yanacocha gold mine, which contributed $61 million.  Newmont plans to tap new underground reserves at Yanacocha,
Latin America’s largest gold mine, Benavides said. Output at the
open-pit mine is slated to fall for a second year to 1.3 million
ounces in 2011.    Gold Fields Ltd . and Buenaventura will also finish a
feasibility study at the end of the year for the Chucapaca gold
deposit, which could produce 500,000 ounces a year by 2015,
exploration vice president Cesar Vidal said on the call.  Buenaventura’s American depositary receipts, each
representing one ordinary share, fell 27 cents, or 0.6 percent,
to $45.37 at 1:05 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at   aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 