-- 
CGGVeritas Sees Growth in Seismic Market; Shares Rise

-- B y   S t e v e   R h i n d s   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-02-25T16:52:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/cgg-veritas-4th-quarter-loss-narrowed-to-35-million-correct-.html
CGGVeritas, the world’s largest
seismic surveyor of oilfields, expects seismic equipment and
field services markets to expand this year as explorers boost
investments. The shares rose to the highest since 2008.  The market for its  Sercel  division that sells seismic
equipment will expand by 5 percent to 10 percent, the Paris-
based surveyor said in a statement today. The services contract
market would grow by 15 percent to 20 percent in volume,
“progressively absorbing marine oversupply in the second half
of the year,” it said.  The company’s net loss narrowed to $35 million in the
fourth quarter from $411 million a year earlier, it said.
Revenue dropped 7 percent to $2.9 billion, partly “impacted by
events in the  Gulf of Mexico ,” the company said. CGGVeritas
took a $131 million one-off charge on restructuring, in line
with the forecast made in December.  The shares climbed 9.8 percent to 26.14 euros in Paris, the
biggest gain since May and the highest stock price since
September 2008.  Oil companies operations were disrupted by the  oil spill  in
the Gulf of Mexico, the worst in the U.S. history, and
subsequent drilling restrictions. Global spending in the
industry rose 5 percent to more than $380 billion last year on
higher  oil prices , Wood Mackenzie Consultants Ltd. forecast in
November.  CGGVeritas today said that shipyard time and vessel
upgrades will impact utilization rates of the fleet early in the
first quarter, “before progressively strengthening” later in
the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Rhinds in Paris at 
 srhinds@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  