-- 
China, U.S. Rescuers Arrive in Christchurch as Earthquake Death Toll Rises

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-02-25T00:36:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/china-u-s-rescuers-arrive-in-christchurch-as-quake-toll-mounts.html
Rescue teams from  China , the U.S.
and the U.K. arrived in Christchurch to help search for more
than 200 missing people among the rubble of buildings felled by
New Zealand’s deadliest earthquake in eight decades.  Rescuers have recovered 113 bodies following the 6.3-
magnitude temblor that rocked the nation’s second-largest city
on Feb. 22 and say that figure is likely to rise. Some 228
people are missing, according to the  Civil Defense department ’s
website. Police yesterday released the names of victims for the
first time. Of the four local residents, two were infants.  “You’ve now got what is looking like a very significant
fatality toll,” Prime Minister John Key said in an interview
with Television  New Zealand  today. “That is really unnerving
people and rightfully so.”  About 500 search and rescue workers are operating in
Christchurch, including teams from  Australia ,  Taiwan , Japan and  Singapore , Michael Mead, a spokesman for Civil Defense, said in
an interview. A team of 10 rescuers from China is arriving
today, as well as the remainder of a 55-strong U.K. team,
according to the  Ministry of Foreign Affairs & Trade . Earlier
today, a U.S. team of 80 rescuers arrived.  No survivors have been located for at least 24 hours,
according to Mead. Police urged foreign nationals to contact
their families at home, if they hadn’t done so.  A number of the missing may be foreign nationals,
authorities say. Rescue workers from Japan were helping in
recovery efforts at the Canterbury Television building where a
number of Japanese students attended the King’s Education
school. Twenty one Chinese students are missing, with 8 of the
unaccounted buried in the CTV building,  China Central Television 
reported yesterday, citing local police.  Foreign Students Affected  “There are an awful lot of people around the world who are
deeply concerned about loved ones,” Police Superintendent Dave
Cliff told reporters today. “Let them know where you are and
that you’re safe.”  Emergency departments have admitted 594 patients following
the quake, with 11 people in intensive care,  Mead said.  Christchurch  residents are bracing for more aftershocks,
which threaten to topple buildings already weakened. The city
has been shaken by dozens of aftershocks since the initial quake
and may experience more temblors greater than magnitude 5 in
coming days, according to the Civil Defense website.  New Zealand straddles the boundary between the Australian
and Pacific tectonic plates, making it susceptible to
earthquakes. As the plates grind against each other, stress
builds along fault lines, or cracks in the earth’s crust. The
country has as many as 15,000 temblors each year, with about 250
strong enough to be felt, according to  www.geonet.org.   Damage Mounts  On Christchurch’s streets today, mountains of silt are
stacked meters high awaiting collection. The silt was forced up
by liquefaction, a process where soil loses its strength after
violent shaking.  “There may be four or five times as much silt on the
streets of Christchurch today as there was in September”,
Brendan Burns, a Labor Party parliamentarian who represents the
Christchurch Central electorate, said in an interview.  On the edge of  Cathedral Square , the dome of the 105-year-
old Regent Theatre crumbled. Parts of the facade of the 108-
year-old Clarendon Hotel are on the footpath and lie behind
emergency tape. Streets are quiet other than the sound of ducks
on the Avon River snaking through Christchurch’s city center.  The death toll from the quake,is the worst since the  Napier
earthquake  in 1931 that killed 256. This week’s quake came less
than six months after a 7.0 magnitude temblor rocked
Christchurch in the early morning hours of Sept. 4.  The earlier quake, in which no one was killed, caused
widespread damage to the city. The destruction and mounting
economic costs also follow the death of 29 miners following an
explosion at a  coal mine  at  Pike River  on New Zealand’s  South
Island  in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  