-- 
China Minsheng Bank to Raise As Much As $4.5 Billion

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-25T15:03:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/china-minsheng-bank-to-raise-as-much-as-4-5-billion-in-stock-debt-sale.html
China Minsheng Banking Corp., the
nation’s first non-state lender, said it plans to raise as much
as 29.4 billion yuan ($4.5 billion) by selling shares and
convertible bonds to boost its capital adequacy ratio.  The bank will issue up to 20 billion yuan of convertible
bonds in  Shanghai  and has canceled a plan to issue local-
currency shares in a private placement, according to a filing to
the Hong Kong stock exchange today. Minsheng will also issue as
many as 1.65 billion new H-shares in Hong Kong, the statement
said. Based on yesterday’s closing price of HK$6.72, that may
raise as much as 9.35 billion yuan.  The proceeds “will be used for replenishing of the core
capital of the company, increase the capital adequacy ratio,
strengthening the company’s ability of resisting risks and
gaining profits and ensuring the sustained, rapid and sound
development of the business,” Minsheng said in its statement.  Chairman Dong Wenbiao is trying to bolster a capital
adequacy ratio that’s the second lowest among nine Chinese banks
traded in  Hong Kong . The lender scrapped a plan to raise 21.5
billion yuan in a private placement in Shanghai because of
opposition from small shareholders, a person with knowledge of
the matter said today.  “The new plan is more likely to be accepted by investors
and can sustain Minsheng’s growth for at least three years,”
said Li Wen, a Beijing-based analyst at Donghai Securities Co.
“Demand for convertible bonds, especially from fixed-income
funds, is quite strong.”  Shares Halted  Shares of Minsheng Bank were suspended from trading today.
The stock closed at 5.09 yuan in Shanghai yesterday, about 10
percent below its HK$6.72 price in Hong Kong. The Hong Kong-
listed shares will resume trading on Feb. 28, the company said.  Minsheng trades at 1.4 times estimated book value for 2010,
trailing the average 1.54 times for rivals listed in Hong Kong,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company’s proposed private placement in Shanghai would
have been priced at 4.57 yuan a share, 10 percent below
yesterday’s close. Minsheng changed its fundraising plan because
it can sell stock in Hong Kong more quickly, and demand for
convertible bonds in  China  is strong, the person said.  Li Limin, a Beijing-based press officer at Minsheng Bank,
declined to comment.  Broken Promise  Dong, 53, may still risk the ire of investors as he reneges
on a promise made in November 2009, after the bank raised $3.9
billion in a public offering in Hong Kong, that Minsheng Bank
wouldn’t sell more equity for three years.  The lender was forced to raise more money after regulators
told it to boost its capital ratio by two percentage points,
Shanghai Securities News reported Jan. 12, citing Dong.  “If we don’t refinance, that means we are not obeying
orders, and then we won’t be able to open for business next
year,” the newspaper quoted Dong as saying.  Minsheng Bank’s capital adequacy ratio fell to 10.77
percent at the end of June from 10.83 percent six months earlier.
While that’s still above the regulatory minimum, China may raise
the ratio for lenders including Minsheng to as high as 13
percent when credit growth is deemed excessive, a person with
knowledge of the matter said last month.  The company’s stock has slumped 13 percent in Hong Kong
trading since the 2009 offering. In Shanghai, Minsheng declined
24 percent last year, compared with a 14 percent drop in the
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index.  The lender, which has about 460 outlets and 176 billion
yuan of assets, was founded in 1996 by pig-feed tycoon Liu Yonghao and some of China’s wealthiest businessmen. The bank has
boosted profit by an average 46 percent since 2007.  China’s banking regulator said this week it is drafting new
capital regulations based on the global Basel III agreement and
plans to announce them as soon as possible.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bloomberg News in Shanghai at 
 jjiang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  