-- 
Chinese Erotica May Raise 1.2 Million Pounds at London Auction

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-02-25T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/chinese-imperial-erotica-may-raise-1-9-million-at-bonhams-london-auction.html
A set of Chinese erotic carvings
associated with the court of the Qianlong emperor is estimated 
by auctioneers to sell for as much as 1.2 million pounds 
($1.9 million) at a London sale in May.  The 18th-century ivory scenes of couples enjoying amorous
pursuits in palace gardens will be offered by Bonhams at its
May 12 sale of Chinese artworks. Carrying a low estimate of
800,000 pounds, they originated from a collection in  Germany ,
said the London-based auction house.  The reliefs are mounted on eight leaves made of zitan
wood, a prized, slow-growing timber whose use in  China  was
controlled by the palace workshops. The 12-inch-high panels
are hinged like books, allowing the carvings to be viewed at
the discretion of the owner.  “I’ve never sold anything like this before,” Asaph
Hyman, a senior specialist at Bonhams, said in an interview.
“Zitan wood was very expensive in the 18th century. It was
usually reserved for items made for the Imperial court. It’s
possible that they could have been made for the emperor,
though we can’t prove it.”  The quality and size of Bonhams’s carvings are comparable
to a set of 12 similar leaves in the Qing court collection at
the  Palace Museum , Beijing, Hyman said.  These Oriental precursors of Playboy centerfolds are the
latest discoveries that may attract intense competition from
Chinese bidders keen to buy back their Imperial heritage.  Pricey Vase  In November, a Qianlong-dynasty vase sold for a record
51.6 million pounds to a Chinese buyer at a Bainbridges
auction in west Ruislip, on the outskirts of London.  A 79-foot (24 meter) scroll showing the Qianlong emperor
reviewing his troops has been estimated to fetch between 5
million euros ($6.9 million) and 6 million euros by the
Toulouse, France-based auction house, Labarbe.  “I expect it to sell for a record price for a Chinese
piece in  France ,” said auctioneer Marc Labarbe in an
interview.  Dating from 1739 and bearing the seals of 10 court
painters, the scroll, which is being sold by a Paris-based
family, is one of four Imperial examples thought to have been
looted from the Forbidden City in 1900. It will be auctioned
on March 26.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in  London  at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 