-- 
Christie Plan Forcing Workers to Pay `Fair Share' Is Example for Governors

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-02-25T15:57:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/christie-plan-for-workers-to-pay-30-care-premium-may-spread.html
One of Governor  Chris Christie ’s
“tough choices” for balancing New Jersey’s $29.4 billion
budget is making public workers cover 30 percent of health-care
premiums, about what their private-sector counterparts pay.  Governments across the nation may follow the 48-year-old
Republican’s example to boost civil servants’ share of medical
costs to almost double the average for U.S. state and local
employees.  “There’s a broad-scale movement now, even among Democratic
governors, to get workers to pay more for their health care,”
said Jeffrey Keefe, professor of labor and employment relations
at  Rutgers University  in  New Brunswick .  Christie started the battle over public-employee benefits
while running for governor in 2009 when he blamed the rising
cost of health coverage for contributing to state deficits, and
“he was so successful with that campaign that it became
imitated by Republicans nationally,” Keefe said in a telephone
interview.  Reducing the expense of the public workforce has become a
focus of politicians as governments at every level try to brush
off the lingering effects of the most prolonged U.S. recession
since World War II. Forty-four states may face deficits of as
much as $125 billion in the next fiscal year,  according  to the
Washington-based Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.  $4.3 Billion    New Jersey  spends $4.3 billion annually on health insurance
for current and retired workers, a cost Christie said will rise
40 percent in four years without his plan. Since he proposed
raising employers’ contributions in September, other governors
have followed.  Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker  said this month state
workers should pay at least 12 percent of their health-care
premiums, up from 6 percent now. Ohio’s John Kasich supports a
Republican bill that would require state workers to pay at least
20 percent of plan premiums. They pay 15 percent or less now.  Such proposals have sparked union demonstrations in
Wisconsin, Ohio and  Indiana . Similar rallies were planned for 27
states this week, including today at New Jersey’s capitol.  New Jersey pays 92 percent of the cost of employees’ health
premiums now, more than  Delaware ’s 91 percent and  New York ’s 83
percent, while the U.S. government covers 66 percent, according
to data from Christie’s office. He wants to lower his state’s
cost to 70 percent, a move he says would save $323 million that
would be used to help residents who pay the nation’s highest
property taxes.  30 Percent  U.S. local and state government employees enrolled in
family health-insurance plans paid on average 17 percent of
premiums in 2009, according to the Agency for Healthcare
Research and Quality, part of the  U.S. Department of Health  and
Human Services. Private-sector workers paid on average 30
percent, according to data compiled by the department.  “I just want everybody to pay their fair share,” Christie
said at a Feb. 24 town-hall meeting in West Deptford. “We are
not asking for anything unfair.”  Christie’s quarrels with public unions have so far helped
the governor, said Ben Dworkin, director of the Rebovich
Institute of New Jersey Politics at  Rider University  in
Lawrenceville.  “The governor has made it clear that public employees are
different from everyone else,” Dworkin said. “Like any
prosecutor, he’s assigning blame.”  Blue State  Christie, a former U.S. attorney and the first Republican
elected governor of New Jersey since 1997, won in a state where
Democrats outnumber Republicans and the unions backed his
opponent, incumbent  Jon Corzine .  In November, Republicans across the nation capitalized on
discontent with the economy and joblessness holding above 9
percent to win a majority of governorships. Most of the
Republicans followed Christie in saying they won’t raise taxes.  Governors have focused on employee costs as one-time
revenue fixes that were previously used became unavailable, said
Matt Fabian, managing director at Concord, Massachusetts-based
Municipal Market Advisors.  Fabian said the “anti-tax, anti-government” sentiments
many politicians are espousing may have ripple effects in the
$2.9 trillion municipal-bond market.  “The protests and the pushback have shown that maybe
there’s some limits to the extent to which spending cuts alone
can balance budgets,” Fabian said in an interview. “If you say
tax increases are impossible for any reason -- even to the point
of disrupting your own government -- bondholders should have
some concern about the long-term willingness to pay your debt.”  Cost Difference  Christie has highlighted the disparity between the “gold-
plated” benefits for New Jersey workers and those he got as a
federal employee.  The governor, an asthmatic who uses an inhaler daily, said
that under his federal health plan, he spent $55 every two
months replacing the device. As a state employee, he pays $15.  “The cost of that inhaler didn’t go down,” he said during
a Jan. 25 interview. “I’m saving $240 a year out of my own
pocket and it’s being pushed onto the taxpayer.”  Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a Democrat whose party
controls both houses of New Jersey’s Legislature, has introduced
a competing health-care plan that would raise workers’
contributions gradually over seven years and let lower-income
employees contribute a smaller percentage. Christie’s strategy
of linking property-tax relief to passage of his proposals
amounts to “political theatrics,” Sweeney said in a Feb. 24
phone interview.  “Ultimatums don’t go anywhere with anyone,” said Sweeney.
“He’s talking about a large part of their income. What we need
to do is be fair, and Christie’s plan doesn’t acknowledge any
difference between low and high incomes.”  Teachers Union  The  New Jersey Education Association , which represents
about 200,000 current and retired educators, estimates
Christie’s health-benefits proposal and his call for higher
pension payments would cost teachers earning an average $66,000
at least 15 percent of their compensation.  Politicians such as Christie are using the economic
downturn to pit public-sector workers against taxpayers, said  Steve Baker , a spokesman for the union. Changes to benefits and
pensions should take place at the bargaining table, he said.  Diane Camiolo, who taught at Kingsway Regional High School
for 36 years, collects a $42,000 annual pension after retiring
at a final salary of $72,000. During her time in the classroom,
she said her union once agreed to lower a planned 5 percent
raise to 3.5 percent to retain health insurance and accepted a
longer school year.  While contribution levels won’t rise for current retirees,
other proposals such as an increase in the number of plan
options and higher co-pays for doctor visits would apply. The
changes are unfair to those who have worked under the assumption
of receiving paid health insurance after they retire, Camiolo
said at Christie’s West Deptford meeting.  “This is sort of like changing the rules of a football
game halfway through,” said Camiolo, 61, who lives in Glassboro
and is president of the Gloucester County Retired Educators
Association. “You can’t do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 