-- 
CLP Says Australian Carbon Price Proposal Still Lacks Clarity

-- B y   J o h n   D u c e   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 
2011-02-25T02:46:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/clp-says-australian-carbon-plan-still-lacks-clarity-may-deter-investment.html
  CLP Holdings Ltd ., the Hong Kong-
based electricity producer with assets across  Asia , said the
lack of detail in  Australia ’s announcement yesterday of a price
on carbon emissions may deter power industry investment.  “It makes life difficult in the short term,” Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Brandler said in an interview with
Susan Li on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up” today. “There’s
no real clarity on what this tax is going to look like. I think
in the short term it’s going to disincentivize investment in
Australia’s power sector.”  About 12.6 percent of CLP’s net income came from its
Australian power generating business last year, the company said
as it reported earnings yesterday. Australia intends to set a
fixed price on carbon pollution starting July 2012, followed by
an emissions trading system three to five years later, Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  said in Canberra yesterday. The price and
compensation for industries and consumers haven’t been decided.  “Billions of dollars of investment are waiting on a
decision,” Anthony Hobley, a Sydney-based lawyer and climate
change specialist at Norton Rose LLP, told Rishaad Salamat on
Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move Asia” today. “Business
would be quite frustrated if this fails again. But it’s not
going to be an easy ride.”  Gillard vowed to revive the climate-change plan after she
replaced  Kevin Rudd  last year. Rudd’s popularity plummeted after
he shelved the pricing and trading proposals, which require
approval from parliament and will need the support of four
lower-house lawmakers from outside the ruling  Labor Party .  ‘Sensible Transition’  Opposition leader Tony Abbott said his Liberal-National
coalition wouldn’t support the proposal. He said it would add
A$300 ($304) a year to household electricity bills and that a
voter backlash would prevent it getting parliamentary approval.  “I question whether this is a tax,” Hobley of Norton Rose
said. “It’s a sensible way to transition into a trading
scheme.”  Australia, where coal accounts for more than 80 percent of
electricity production, will cut emissions by at least 5 percent
by 2020, Gillard’s government has said. The world’s biggest
exporter of coal will also source one-fifth of its energy from
renewable energy projects such as wind and solar by 2020.  CLP group burns coal for about 40 percent of its generating
capacity, the company said in a statement given to reporters at
a media briefing yesterday. CLP rose 0.7 percent to HK$63.40 in  Hong Kong  at 10:42 a.m., in line with the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index .  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 jduce1@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  