-- 
CNN Says Kathleen Parker to Leave Prime-Time Program `Parker Spitzer'

-- B y   R o b   G o l u m   a n d   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-02-25T23:35:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/cnn-says-kathleen-parker-to-leave-prime-time-program-parker-spitzer-.html
  Kathleen Parker  is leaving the
“Parker Spitzer” prime-time program on CNN, and the network
will retool the show around remaining host  Eliot Spitzer .  The new show, “In the Arena,” will use an ensemble format
with several newsmakers, guests and contributors joining Spitzer
each night, starting Feb. 28 at 8 p.m., CNN Executive Vice
President Ken Jautz said today in a statement.  The cable news network, owned by New York-based  Time Warner
Inc ., created the “Parker Spitzer” show in June, following a
34 percent drop in its prime time audience, compared with the
previous year. The show started airing in the fall. Will Cain
and E.D. Hill will join the show as Parker exits,  CNN  said.  News Corp.’s Fox News and Comcast Corp.’s MSNBC have
excelled at the 8 p.m. slot with personalities like Bill O’Reilly and Keith Olbermann. Since late December, Fox has
averaged 1.9 million viewers in prime time each night, MSNBC has
averaged 828,000 and CNN has averaged 670,000, according to data
from Nielsen Co. CNN said “Parker Spitzer” gained viewers last
month after Olbermann left MSNBC.  “The numbers weren’t there,” said  Brad Adgate , research
director at Horizon Media, a New York-based advertising company.
“CNN has a lot of work to do to become competitive with the
other news networks,” Adgate said in a telephone interview.
“It’s not a destination news network on a regular news night.
They just don’t have the star power.”  Parker, a syndicated newspaper columnist, said she is
leaving to focus on her writing. Her exit marks the latest
shakeup in the 24-hour news channel’s prime-time lineup. Piers Morgan replaced long-time nightly talk-show host  Larry King  in
January.  Time Warner gained 48 cents to $37.90 at 4:24 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has gained 18
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Golum in Los Angeles at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 