-- 
Congo's Kabwelulu Seeks to End Mining Ban in Three Mineral-Rich Provinces

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-02-25T14:08:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/congo-s-kabwelulu-seeks-to-end-mining-ban-in-three-mineral-rich-provinces.html
The Democratic Republic of Congo’s
Mines Minister,  Martin Kabwelulu , will ask the president to lift
a mining ban in three of the country’s eastern provinces,
introduced six months ago to break a link between armed groups
and the illegal mineral trade that’s fueled more than 15 years
of conflict in the region.  Congo’s military has removed illegal armed groups from
“many” mining sites, and the government is now working with
local and international partners to develop ways of tracing the
supply chain of its minerals, Kabwelulu said at a conference
today in the capital, Kinshasa.  “Because of this, we can today propose to the highest
authorities of the country that they lift the mining suspension
in the provinces of Maniema, North Kivu, and  South Kivu ,” he
said. President Joseph Kabila announced the ban on Sept. 9 to
break up “mafia groups” who controlled the region’s mineral
trade.  Congo is  Africa ’s largest producer of tin ore, and has
deposits of gold, coltan, and tungsten, most of which comes from
the provinces affected by the ban.  Soldiers in Congo’s army must also end their involvement in
the mineral trade, North Kivu Governor Julien Paluku said in an
interview today at the conference. “There are always people
involved in such things, in any institution, and they should be
arrested,” he said.  ‘Certified, Identified’  North Kivu province may have built up mineral stocks valued
at as much as $30 million, Paluku said. Traders are worried that
their stockpiles need to be sold before April 1, when new
auditing regulations on conflict minerals take effect, he said.  The law, signed by U.S. President  Barack Obama  in July,
will force companies to prove their mineral purchases do not
support armed groups in Congo. The regulations will be good for
the country, Kabwelulu said.  “These minerals need to be certified, identified, and
tagged and returned to the national network,” he said. “It
will help us because people will no longer be able to buy
however they want.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  