-- 
Constitution Is Only Way to Cut U.S. Deficit: David M. Primo

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   P r i m o
-- 
2011-02-25T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/constitution-is-only-way-to-cut-u-s-deficit-commentary-by-david-m-primo.html
Even though President  Barack Obama 
and congressional leaders continue to punt on the deficit issue,  Washington  is awash in budget proposals to deal with a looming
fiscal crisis.  Senators  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, and Claire McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat, introduced a bill this month
that would trim federal spending to 20.6 percent of gross
domestic product, from the current 25 percent, over a decade.
There is also talk of crafting legislation to enact the
recommendations of the president’s deficit  commission .  All of these proposals lack a crucial element: spending
limits enforced through the U.S. Constitution. Without a
constitutional amendment, meaningful budget restraint will be
put off, and Congress will revert back to the legislative state
of nature, where survival means spending, not cutting.  An amendment is necessary because of the latitude the
 Constitution  gives Congress. Article I, Section 5 says “each
House may determine the rules of its proceedings.” What this
means in practice is that today’s Congress can’t commit a future
Congress to spending cuts. Moreover, any internal legislative
rule, or even a statute, can be changed or evaded with a large
enough congressional majority.  Congress often takes advantage of this prerogative. In
1990, when members realized they would not be able to satisfy
the deficit-reduction targets set in the 1985 Gramm-Rudman-
Hollings  law , they scuttled the targets instead. And for years,
legislators have evaded their own rules by calling what most of
us would consider routine spending an “emergency.”  Failed Diets  “All of this talk about rules,” U.S. Representative Alcee Hastings, a Florida Democrat, said in a committee hearing last
March, “we make ‘em up as we go along.”  It’s no surprise that Congress makes the rules up as it
goes along. Members face the same problem we all do when we
commit today to making a hard choice tomorrow. Look no further
than unused gym memberships (I’ll eat during the holidays and
take off the weight in January) and non-existent retirement
accounts (I’ll take a vacation this year and start saving for
retirement next year).  Congressmen  are, if anything, more susceptible to such
failings, because they stand for reelection every two years and
it’s easier to get credit for new, targeted spending than for
the more amorphous achievement of responsible fiscal
stewardship.  The Constitution provides the only lever that can make
Congress stick to its promises. As I and others have shown in
studies of U.S. state governments, strict balanced budget laws
enforced by elected courts are the gold standard for commitment;
states with these rules spend less money than states without
such restraints.  Congressional Prerogatives  Of course, the  U.S. Supreme Court  is appointed rather than
elected, but it is still a far better route for enforcement than
leaving legislators to their own devices.  Despite this evidence, many reform proposals at the
national level explicitly give Congress the authority to fill in
the details and enforce the rules, leaving little-to-no role for
court oversight. Lawmakers justify these provisions by claiming
that judicial oversight would open the door to continuous court
challenges of enacted budgets. The real motivation: Congress
knows that enforcement matters, and if it controls the process,
it can circumvent the rules as political exigencies require.  ‘Escape Clause’  Of course, true emergencies, including wars or severe
economic downturns, will occur periodically. To permit
flexibility in such situations, the rules should include a
provision enabling Congress to waive the spending limit with an
extraordinary supermajority, not the typical two-thirds. The
threshold needs to be difficult (but possible) to meet, in
keeping with the rare circumstances under which the escape
clause should be exercised.  Members of Congress who truly want to engage in responsible
budgeting should welcome a constitutional spending cap that
permits judicial scrutiny because it provides a credible
commitment to fiscal discipline.  To secure support for spending cuts, the tough medicine may
need to be postponed until tomorrow. If a constitutional
spending limit with real enforcement is enacted, then when
tomorrow comes, the reductions will actually have to be made.  Everybody wins except those who prefer that the U.S.
continues on an irresponsible budget course.  (David M. Primo is associate professor of political science
at the University of Rochester in Rochester,  New York . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
David M. Primo at  david.primo@rochester.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  