-- 
Continental Airline Attendants Approve Interim Contract

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-02-25T21:16:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/continental-airline-attendants-approve-interim-contract.html
Continental Airlines flight
attendants approved a  contract  that gives them pay raises and a
no-furlough guarantee as the carrier prepares to merge with  United Airlines .  The 20-month agreement, reached in January, was approved by
68 percent of attendants voting, the Machinists  union  said in a
statement today. The union represents 9,300 employees at
Continental, a unit of Chicago-based  United Continental Holdings
Inc .  The contract, which the union said gives its members the
highest base pay among full-fare major U.S. carriers, will
remain in place until attendants at the combined airline vote on
whether to be represented by the Machinists or the Association
of Flight Attendants-CWA. A new labor agreement then will be
negotiated for the merged group. The  Association of Flight
Attendants  represents 16,000 United workers.  “This interim agreement provides immediate raises and
important merger protections as United and Continental integrate
their operations,” Robert Roach Jr., Machinists general vice
president, said in the statement.  The agreement approved today provides raises that will
bring the top level of base pay to $52.53 an hour, including a
2.5 percent base wage increase retroactive to Jan. 1, 2010, and
a 2.5 percent boost on Sept. 1, the union said. It also includes
profit sharing, sick-leave enhancements and a no-furlough policy
through Sept. 2, 2012.  United and Continental completed their $3.47 billion all-
stock merger on Oct. 1, forming the world’s largest carrier. The
two airlines will fly separately until U.S. regulators give them
permission to operate as one carrier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  