-- 
Corn Pares First Weekly Decline This Month as Investors Cut Bets

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-02-25T07:49:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/corn-set-for-weekly-drop-as-investors-cut-bullish-bets-amid-mideast-unrest.html
Corn pared its first weekly drop
this month as investors reduced bullish bets on concern that
unrest in the Middle East and  Africa  may curb global economic
growth, slowing demand.  The May-delivery contract traded at $6.9775 a bushel on the
Chicago Board of Trade at 3:46 p.m. Singapore time after losing
0.4 percent. It’s set for a 3.1 percent loss this week.  Long positions, or bets on corn-price gains, beat short
positions by 483,324 contracts as of Feb. 15, according to
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data. The net-long
positions declined for a second week after rising to 498,177
contracts on Feb. 1, the highest level since 1996.  “We have witnessed corn futures decline due to global
economic uncertainty and unrest in North Africa,” Ker Chung Yang, an analyst at Phillip Futures Pte, said in a report e-
mailed today.  “Those uncertainties in the outside markets were
definitely a factor.”  The biggest weekly loss in corn in seven and drops in wheat
and soybeans means speculators probably kept cutting positions
this week, said Nic Johnson, who helps to manage about $30
billion in commodities at Pacific Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,  California .  Corn Stockpiles  Global corn stockpiles will slide for a third season in the
year through June 2012 as record world production won’t be
enough to satisfy rising demand, the London-based International
Grains Council said yesterday.  World reserves are forecast to drop to a four-year low of
119 million metric tons at the end of June this year, 1 million
tons less than forecast a month ago, because of increased demand
from U.S. ethanol makers, the International Grains Council said.  China may become the world’s largest importer of corn “in
the near future,” Rebecca Bratter, director of trade
development for the U.S. Grains Council, said yesterday. The
Asian nation, the world’s largest corn consumer after the U.S.,
became a net importer last year for the first time in 14 years.  China may buy 15 million tons of corn within five years
because Chinese demand is rising as the population increases and
a growing middle class buys more meat produced from corn-
consuming livestock, Bratter said.  Wheat for May delivery gained as much as 1.2 percent to
$7.9175 a bushel in  Chicago  before trading at $7.885. The
contract is poised for a 7.9 percent loss this week.  Importers may be taking advantage of the slump in prices in
the past two weeks to secure supplies, said  Tetsu Emori ,
commodity fund manager at Astmax Co. Ltd. “At these prices, the
grains are cheap,” he said, adding that demand from countries
with deficits remains strong.  May-delivery soybeans added 0.4 percent to $13.35 a bushel
in Chicago, set for a 3.3 percent loss this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  