-- 
Corn, Soybeans, Wheat Surge on Export Demand for U.S. Crops

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-02-25T21:32:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/corn-soybeans-wheat-rebound-on-signs-of-improving-demand-for-u-s-crops.html
Corn and soybean futures surged the
most in six weeks and wheat had the biggest gain since early
December on bets that increasing export demand for U.S. crops
will tighten global supplies.  U.S. exporters reported the biggest week of corn sales
since the marketing year began Sept. 1, and wheat sales in the
week ended Feb. 17 were 67 percent higher than the prior four-
week average, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said today.
Shippers sold 165,000 metric tons of soybeans to  China  for
delivery after Sept. 1, the agency reported.  “Export sales were strong for corn and wheat last week,
and China buying more soybeans overnight is a positive
indication of increasing demand,” said  Mark Schultz , the chief
analyst for Northstar Commodity Investment Co. in  Minneapolis .
“Domestic livestock and ethanol producers also increased
purchases.”  Corn futures for May delivery jumped 25.5 cents, or 3.7
percent, to close at $7.22 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade, the biggest gain since Jan. 12. Earlier, 
the most-active contract jumped by the exchange limit of 30 
cents. This week, the price climbed 0.2 percent, the fourth 
straight advance. On Feb. 22, the grain reached  a 31-month 
high at $7.4425.  Soybean futures for May delivery gained 45.75 cents, or 3.4
percent, to $13.75 a bushel, the largest gain since Jan. 12.
Earlier, the price surged by the limit of 70 cents. This week,
the oilseed dropped 0.4 percent, the third straight decline,
after rain boosted yields in Brazil and  Argentina .  Wheat Gains  Wheat futures for May delivery jumped 28.75 cents, or 3.7
percent, to $8.1125 a bushel, the biggest gain since Dec. 3.
This week, the price tumbled 5.2 percent, the most since early
October, on speculation that turmoil in North Africa and the
Middle East would curb economic growth, eroding demand for
commodities.  Supply concerns have fueled rallies in agricultural markets
this year. Cotton has more than doubled since the end of June,
and sugar prices gained almost 79 percent, increasing
competition among crops as the world’s farmers seek to plant
more grain and oilseeds, Schultz said.  Corn and soybeans inventories will stay tight in the U.S.,
the world’s largest grower and exporter,  Joe Glauber , the USDA’S
chief economist, said yesterday. Higher demand for livestock
feed and ethanol will limit gains in inventories, he said.  “Even with additional supplies expected this year, it is
likely that the tight stocks-to-use situation will not be
entirely mitigated over the course of one or even two growing
seasons,” Glauber said. “It points to the fierce competition
for acreage this spring.”  Record Food  Global food costs rose to a record last month after jumping
25 percent in 2010, according to the  United Nations . Rising
demand also is helping to boost net-farm income in the U.S. by
20 percent this year to a record $94.7 billion, the USDA said
earlier this month.  In the U.S., “even with a bump up in planted acreage, you
won’t be able to increase inventories to more comfortable
levels,” said  Shawn McCambridge , the senior grain analyst at
Prudential Bache Commodities LLC in Chicago. “The USDA wants to
warn people it will be very difficult to rebuild inventories
this year. If there’s a weather problem, there will be
significant upside potential in prices.”  Wheat rose as adverse weather may curb production in the
U.S., the biggest exporter.  Dry conditions in the past 90 days hurt crops in the
southern Great Plains, where hard-winter wheat is grown, Glauber
said yesterday.  “Supplies will remain tight,” said Justine White, an
analyst at VM Group in  London . “Inventories remain low
following various weather upsets in growing regions.”  Corn is the leading U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, government data
show. Wheat was the fourth-largest at $13 billion, behind hay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in  Chicago  at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 