-- 
Credit Suisse Says Nasdaq May Bid for TMX, CBOE Holdings

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-02-25T21:45:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/credit-suisse-analysts-say-nasdaq-may-bid-for-tmx-cboe-holdings.html
  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc . may bid for  TMX Group Inc . to block  London Stock Exchange Group Plc ’s
agreement to buy the Toronto bourse, or pursue a deal with CBOE
Holdings Inc., according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  Howard Chen, an analyst at Zurich-based Credit Suisse,
estimated that Nasdaq OMX of New York might pay a 20 percent
premium for TMX. With Chicago-based CBOE, Chen said the company
could offer $34.40 a share. CBOE climbed 6.9 percent to $29.43
at 4 p.m. New York time.  The research report from Credit Suisse follows Deutsche
Boerse’s Feb. 15 agreement to buy NYSE Euronext for $9.53
billion, creating the world’s largest exchange operator.  Singapore Exchange Ltd . bid A$8.35 billion ($8.39 billion) in
October for  ASX Ltd ., which runs the Australian stock market,
and London Stock Exchange Group agreed Feb. 9 to pay C$3.2
billion ($3.15 billion) to buy TMX.  “Historically, exchange consolidation has come in waves,”
Chen said in a report sent to clients today. “We see a high
likelihood of at least 1-2 more deals over the coming months.”  TMX Chief Executive Officer Thomas Kloet declined to
comment on Feb. 22 on a Globe & Mail report that the Toronto-
based exchange owner had been in talks with Nasdaq OMX last
year, before its agreement with the LSE.  Cost Cuts  “The merits of such a deal are rooted primarily in
Nasdaq’s ability to realize expense synergies across the
combined organization given the two companies’ geographical
proximity with North America and mutual orientation toward cash
equities,” Chen said.  Carolyn Quick, a TMX spokeswoman, and CBOE’s Gail Osten
declined to comment on the Credit Suisse report. Nasdaq’s Frank De Maria didn’t respond to telephone and e-mail messages.  A Nasdaq takeover of CBOE Holdings would diversify revenue
from equities trading by giving it a bigger share of the U.S.
options market, Chen said. CBOE executives told directors that
they are open to strategic partnerships, a person with direct
knowledge of the discussions said Feb. 23. Chen raised his
rating on CBOE to “outperform” today.  Credit Suisse also said that  CME Group Inc . may see  BM&FBovespa SA  as “a potential merger partner down the road.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  