-- 
Crown Misses Estimates After Losing Business to Singapore

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-02-25T05:52:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/crown-earnings-miss-estimates-after-losing-business-to-singapore.html
  Crown Ltd .,  Australia ’s biggest
casino owner, reported earnings that missed analyst estimates
after losing business in the high-stakes gambling segment to new
rival venues in  Singapore . The company’s stock fell.  Normalized profit, which is adjusted for variance in the
rate of winnings, rose 14 percent to A$165.8 million ($168
million) in the fiscal first half ended Dec. 31, Crown said
today in a statement. That was lower than the A$183 million
median of four analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  The division that relies on high rollers reported an 8
percent drop in revenue as Genting Singapore Plc and  Las Vegas
Sands Corp . opened venues in Singapore. Crown, controlled by
billionaire  James Packer , is renovating both its Melbourne and
Perth venues to attract locals and reverse the decline in the
VIP business, while local rival  Tabcorp Holdings Ltd ., owner of
four Australian casinos, is buying jets to fly in gamblers.  “Crown’s previously unassailable leadership in VIP in
Australasia is under threat, both from Singapore and an upgraded
offer from Tabcorp,” Jenny Owen, a Sydney-based analyst at
Citigroup Inc., said in a note to clients today.  Crown fell 1.8 percent to A$8.23 at the 4:10 p.m. close of
Sydney trading, after dropping as much as 5.8 percent. The stock
is down 0.2 percent this year compared with a 1.9 percent gain
in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  Macau Stakes  The casino company said profit rose 33 percent to A$153.1
million in the six months ended December. Earnings per share
rose to 20 Australian cents from 15 cents a year earlier. Sales
increased 0.7 percent to A$1.2 billion.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization at its Melbourne casino fell 12 percent on a below-
average win rate while profit from Perth rose 11 percent.  The company’s share of profits from associates was A$10.3
million in the half compared with a loss of A$51.6 million a
year earlier.  Crown has minority stakes in Macau casino operator Melco
Crown Entertainment Ltd. and U.S. operator Cannery Casino
Resorts LLC.  Hong Kong-based Melco Crown, 33 percent owned by the
Australian company, posted a second straight quarterly profit on
Feb. 22 as gambling revenue rose at its two casinos in Macau,
the world’s biggest casino center.  Macau, the only place in China where casinos are legal,
posted a 15 percent increase in arrivals to 25 million last year,
with 83 percent coming from mainland  China  and  Hong Kong ,
according to government data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  