-- 
Oil Caps Its Biggest Weekly Gain in Two Years on Libyan Unrest

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-02-25T21:37:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/crude-oil-heads-for-biggest-weekly-increase-in-two-years-on-libya-unrest.html
Crude oil capped its biggest weekly
gain in two years on concern the turmoil that has cut  Libya ’s
output may spread to other parts of the Middle East.  Futures in New York surged to a 29-month high yesterday
amid estimates that Libya’s output was cut by as much as two-
thirds. Oil retreated below $100 a barrel after Saudi Arabia,
the U.S. and the  International Energy Agency  said they can
compensate for any Libyan supply disruption and as the  U.S.
economy  grew less than forecast in the fourth quarter.  “We may move a lot higher on concern over how the Libyan
situation will develop over the weekend,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “The reassurances
from Saudi Arabia, the IEA and even the White House helped calm
fears yesterday, but might not be enough.”  Crude oil for April delivery climbed 60 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $97.88 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. Oil rose to $103.41 yesterday, the highest intraday
price since Sept. 29, 2008. Futures are up 25 percent from a
year ago.  Prices for futures closest to expiration increased 14
percent this week in New York, the biggest gain since the five
days ended Feb. 27, 2009. April crude became the front-month
contract on Feb. 23.  Brent crude oil for April settlement rose 78 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $112.14 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange, the highest close since Aug. 29, 2008. Brent is
up 9.4 percent this week.  Libyan Output  Libyan production has been cut by more than 1 million
barrels a day,  Barclays Capital  said. The IEA said output was
down by at least 850,000 barrels. Libya, which pumps 1.6 million
barrels of oil a day, is the ninth-largest producer among the 12
members of OPEC, shipping most of its crude and fuels to Europe.  Most Libyan oil grades are classified as light and sweet,
meaning they are less dense and low in sulfur, according to the
 U.S. Energy Department . Light-sweet oil is easier to refine into
gasoline and distillate fuels such as diesel. The country has
the largest crude-oil reserves in Africa.  “Libya produces very high quality crude,” said  Rick Mueller , director of oil markets at Energy Security Analysis
Inc. in Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “Any extra barrels from the
Saudis and Kuwaitis won’t be a good quality match, so the
replacement of Libyan oil won’t be seamless. Until there’s a
resolution there will be a hefty geopolitical premium.”  Qaddafi’s Defense  Muammar Qaddafi bolstered defenses in Tripoli, Libya’s
capital, after rebels seized much of the rest of the country, as
the  United Nations  prepared to debate sanctions and the U.K.
said the route to the city’s airport is no longer safe.  “We will fight and defeat” any foreign intervention,
Qaddafi told crowds gathered in Tripoli’s Green Square who
carried posters and banners supporting him. “Be prepared to
defend Libya. Be prepared to defend the oil.”  The Paris-based IEA said it is ready to release emergency
stockpiles, if needed.  Saudi Arabia  and other members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said they won’t
wait for an emergency meeting of the group to increase output,
according to a person with knowledge of producer-nation policy.
The country pumped 8.4 million barrels a day in January,
according to Bloomberg News estimates.  Saudi Output  Saudi Arabia bolstered crude production this month in
response to the likely disruptions to exports from Libya, the
IEA said. The kingdom “quietly increased” its output to more
than 9 million barrels a day in February, Energy Intelligence
Group’s International Oil Daily reported, without saying where
it got the information.  “We are aware of increased volumes from Saudi Arabia but
don’t know the exact amount,” Diane Munro, the IEA’s supply
analyst, said in a telephone interview from Paris today.  The production cuts in Libya were the first instance of
crude supplies being reduced by the civil unrest spreading
through the Middle East and North  Africa . Protests ignited by
the ouster of Tunisia’s president last month and fanned by the
Feb. 11 fall of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  have also
spread to Yemen and Bahrain.  “We could soon be looking at full-out civil war,” said
Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence Investment
Management in  St. Louis . “There’s no obvious end in sight and
it doesn’t look like it will end pretty.”  While OPEC spare capacity is sufficient to make up for any
shortfall from Libya, there is a “significant upside risk” to
prices if the unrest reduces supplies from other oil-producing
countries, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a Feb. 23 report.  Nomura Holdings Inc. predicted on the same day that  oil
prices  may surge to $220 on the Libyan outages and any expansion
into neighboring  Algeria .  Oil volume on the Nymex was 603,298 contracts as of 3:38
p.m. in electronic trading in New York. Volume totaled 1.17
million contracts yesterday, 51 percent above the average of the
past three months. Open interest was 1.52 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net . 