-- 
Cuomo Weighs Proposals to Cap New York's Medicaid Costs at $15.1 Billion

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-02-25T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/cuomo-weighs-proposals-to-cap-new-york-s-medicaid-costs-at-15-1-billion.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s
Medicaid task force recommended 79 ways to redesign and
restructure the state’s health-care services program for the
poor to cap its cost at $15.1 billion.  The so-called Medicaid Redesign Team’s proposals meet his
budget target through a variety of changes, the governor said
yesterday in a  statement . He said the recommendations won’t
jeopardize patient care.  “This approach was not about making cuts but redesigning a
program whose costs are unsustainable,” said Cuomo, 53, a
Democrat elected in November. The state’s spending per Medicaid
recipient is the second highest in the U.S., the governor said.  Cuomo set up the Medicaid team to avoid political fights
over how to change the present system, according to his
statement. The group held public meetings around the state
starting in January to solicit ideas, receiving more than 4,000
from New York residents. The governor is grappling with a $10
billion deficit for the fiscal year that begins April 1.  A 2 percent rate cut would reduce Medicaid costs by $345
million, while proposed changes in program and payment structure
would cut expenses by $1.14 billion, according to a summary of
the recommendations. Another would put almost all Medicaid
recipients into managed-care programs within three years.  Cuomo has proposed cutting local school aid by 7.3 percent
and reducing Medicaid spending by $3 billion to help balance the
fiscal 2012 budget. As many as 9,800 state jobs may be lost
under the governor’s $132.9 billion spending plan, according to
documents he released Feb. 1.  He called the nation’s third most-populous state
“functionally bankrupt” and said his budget proposal “stops
the cycle of relentless and unaffordable spending growth.”  New York spends more than twice the national average on
Medicaid on a per-capita basis, Cuomo said in the statement. The
health-insurance system is jointly funded by states and the U.S.
government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  