-- 
Democratic Apathy Gets a Gift From Wisconsin: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-02-25T00:00:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/democratic-apathy-gets-a-gift-from-wisconsin-commentary-by-jonathan-alter.html
Whatever the outcome, the political
earthquake in  Wisconsin  is exposing fissures in American
politics that will play out in the 2012 election and beyond.  Discerning the truth of this story requires holding two
seemingly contradictory ideas in one’s mind at once -- that
Republican Governor  Scott Walker  is out of line and that the
public employees unions had this coming.  If Walker was honest about his motives, he would be looking
better. As a conservative, he wants to neuter the public
employees unions by allowing them to negotiate only for wages,
not benefits or working conditions. This would effectively smash
organized labor in his state.  But Walker can’t say that he’s a union-buster, so he’s
pretending that he’s taking drastic action only because his
state faces a  budget  crisis. In fact, Wisconsin is in better
shape than most states -- or was, until Walker rammed $117
million in tax cuts for corporations through the legislature,
now controlled by the GOP. Those tax cuts take effect in July,
making a difficult budget outlook even worse.  Walker’s true intentions were made clear by his hands-off
treatment of those police and fire unions that supported his
candidacy last year. Their benefits are no more reasonable than
those of teachers and state workers, maybe less. This is a power
grab. Republicans want the pesky unions that support Democrats
out of the way.  The billionaire Koch brothers, whose organization Americans
for Prosperity spent $40 million nationwide in the 2010
elections on behalf of the GOP, are pumping money into
Wisconsin. If they can cripple collective bargaining there and
elsewhere, they can tilt the playing field further in their
direction.  Conservative Over-Reach  This is where conservatives are over-reaching. While
President  Barack Obama  courts the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and
unions accept corporate lobbyists as part of the process, the
other side doesn’t reciprocate. Even though the unions are now
offering huge concessions, Walker and company want to dictate
terms, not negotiate. They are using a  budget crisis  to change
the rules.  The same folks who howled when former White House Chief of
Staff  Rahm Emanuel  said in 2008 that “a crisis is a terrible
thing to waste” are now believers in the concept. They must be
stopped. It’s a bad idea to give more power to the same wealthy
interests that drove the economy over a cliff.  Yet what makes things complicated is that the conservative
critique of government unions is largely accurate. Public
employee unions and their mostly (though hardly exclusively)
Democratic allies in state legislatures and governors mansions
have been taking advantage of taxpayers for 50 years. It’s a
form of self-dealing within the government that we’ve taken for
granted.  Deal-Making  The way collective bargaining in the public sector has
worked is simple enough: Unions contribute to candidates and
work for them in elections. In exchange, politicians in both
parties agree to health-care benefits and pensions that are
usually far in excess of what’s possible in the public sector.
The bill for these benefits often doesn’t come due until long
after they’ve left office. They rationalize it by holding the
line on wages, which some  studies  suggest remain slightly lower
than for comparable jobs in the private sector.  But those good private-sector jobs are hard to find. That
means that in the ailing communities of Wisconsin and other
states, teachers and social welfare workers are often the best-
paid people in town. Because they are compensated the same
whether they work in  Milwaukee  or Eagle River, their paychecks
go further in rural areas with lower costs of living. And they
often pay as little as $100 a month for generous health-care
benefits.  Obnoxious Games  Then there are the legal but obnoxious pension games like
double-dipping (getting pensions from two different state
agencies) and loading up on overtime in one’s final year on the
job, which triggers a much more lucrative retirement package.  Even as many states move to eliminate these offensive
practices, the unions have, until very recently, resisted. It’s
not surprising that those who don’t work for the government --
including many private-sector union members -- resent this. If
taxpayers got more for their money -- in better schools and
public services -- they would be more supportive.  But of course the schools aren’t preparing our children for
the workforce of the 21st century and the teachers’ unions,
especially the  National Education Association , are defending
tenure and seniority systems that protect incompetent teachers
and prevent other necessary reforms.  “Public sector unions can’t be immune to thinking about
the next generation, not just the next election,” says  Andy Stern , former head of the  Service Employees International Union 
(SEIU).  Next Election  Of course, as Stern notes, it’s about the next election for
corporate interests, too. That’s why the outcome in Wisconsin is
critical. If Walker comes out on top, he will embolden other
governors to launch frontal assaults on government unions. The
result may be a strengthening of the left, as unions and
liberals fight not for lavish benefits and outdated labor
practices (those are on their way out) but for their very
existence.  Wisconsin galvanized the Democratic base, which will now
forget about its disappointments with the president and fight
like hell in 2012 just to stay at the table.  (Jonathan Alter is a national correspondent for  Newsweek 
and author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The
views expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  