-- 
Korea Exchange Imposes Record Fine on Deutsche Bank’s Unit

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-02-25T06:49:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/deutsche-bank-unit-fined-885-000-by-korea-stock-exchange-for-rule-breach.html
  Korea Exchange  Inc. fined  Deutsche
Bank AG ’s local unit a record 1 billion won ($887,000) for
violating exchange rules on Nov. 11 when a stock-market rout
wiped out $26 billion of market value.  Deutsche Securities Korea Co. breached rules on the
disclosure of computer-driven trades by filing a report one
minute late, triggering confusion among investors,  Korea
Exchange  said in an e-mailed statement today. The highest
penalty had been a 250 million won fine on Kiwoom Securities Co.
in 2009, said Cho Byung In, a spokesman for the exchange.  The fine comes after South Korean financial regulators this
week gave Deutsche Bank’s local unit the heaviest penalty ever
levied on a securities firm in the nation. The German bank will
be banned from trading shares and derivatives for its own
account in  South Korea  for six months, the Financial Services
Commission said Feb. 23. The regulator will also ask prosecutors
to investigate five employees at the Frankfurt-based lender.  “The actions taken by Korean authorities have dented the
company’s reputation,” said Chung Yun Sik, chief investment
officer at ING Investment Management Korea Ltd., which oversees
$17 billion in assets. “But the steps will affect only part of
the unit’s operations, so any financial impact won’t be big.”  ‘Unfair’ Trading  Deutsche Bank staff conspired to manipulate the market by
selling 2.44 trillion won worth of shares in the last minutes of
trading on Nov. 11, with the aim of making gains from
“speculative” derivatives positions built in advance,
according to the regulator, which didn’t identify the employees.
The lender’s units made 45 billion won of “unfair” trading
profit that day, the FSC said on Feb. 23.  Korea Exchange requested the bank’s local unit dismiss or
suspend from duty one employee, which it didn’t name.  “Deutsche Securities Korea deeply regrets the KRX action,
however respects its decision to impose such penalties,”
Deutsche Bank’s local division said in a statement today.  The slump in the benchmark  Kospi Index  during the last
minutes of trading on Nov. 11 prompted regulators to limit the
number of equity derivative contracts investors can hold.  Korea Exchange  said the Kospi’s tumble was caused by
“program” selling. Regulators began investigating Deutsche
Bank units in Seoul and  Hong Kong  after the  Financial
Supervisory Service  said about 1.6 trillion won of sell orders
were made through the Korean brokerage unit.  The record fine was made to reflect the “severity” of the
violations, Korea Exchange said in today’s statement. The bourse
will take strict measures against any company that hampers fair
trading or doesn’t pay attention to internal controls, it said.  Deutsche Securities Korea accounted for 1.8 percent of the
total trading value of Kospi-listed shares last year, according
to Koscom Corp., which provides financial data from  Korea
Exchange.  The unit had 118 employees and posted profit of 26.9
billion won for the nine months through December, according to a
company  filing  on Feb. 14. The brokerage earned annual profit of
32.2 billion won in the previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in  Seoul  at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  