-- 
Deutsche Telekom Has Net Loss on Romanian, Greek Writedowns

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-02-25T12:49:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/deutsche-telekom-posts-803-million-fourth-quarter-loss-on-greek-writedown.html
  Deutsche Telekom AG , Europe’s
largest telecommunications company, reported a surprise fourth-
quarter net loss, depressed by eastern and southern European
operations and asset writedowns.  The net loss was 582 million euros ($803 million), compared
with a loss of 3 million euros a year earlier, the Bonn-based
company  said  today. Analysts had predicted net income of 546
million euros. Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization dropped 10 percent to 4.55 billion
euros, trailing the 4.7 billion-euro average estimate of 19
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit was weighed down by 1.3 billion euros in one-time
costs including 445 million euros to write down the value of
assets in  Romania  and in  Greece , where Deutsche Telekom owns 30
percent of  Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA . The
German company said today it needs until as late as early 2012
to solve U.S. “structural” problems, where it struggled to
keep  AT&T Inc . and Verizon Wireless from winning over customers.  “While it was clear that there would be impairments in
Greece given the situation there, we were surprised that the
amount was this high,” said Jacques Abramowicz, a Frankfurt-
based analyst at Silvia Quandt & Cie AG who recommends buying
Deutsche Telekom shares.  Telefonica Profit    Telefonica SA , Europe’s second-largest phone company, today
reported fourth-quarter net income of 1.33 billion euros because
of 1.1 billion euros in restructuring costs.    France Telecom SA  yesterday forecast shrinking 2011 profit
margins.  Telecom Italia SpA  today forecast a 15 percent annual
increase in dividend through 2013, sending the shares higher.  Deutsche Telekom fell 16.2 cents, or 1.6 percent, to 9.76
euros at 1:42 p.m. in  Frankfurt . Telefonica added 1.5 percent in  Madrid . Telecom Italia rose 4.2 percent on the Milan exchange.  In the fourth quarter, Deutsche Telekom also recorded
charges from staff restructuring and a settlement over the
ownership of Polish phone division PTC.  Group revenue slid 4.5 percent to 15.5 billion euros. Sales
in  Germany  climbed 0.6 percent to 6.4 billion euros. Revenue in
Greece dropped 15 percent and in Romania by 7.1 percent.  ‘Critical’  European sales will decline again this year, while in 2012,
the decline will slow while adjusted Ebitda will remain stable,
Deutsche Telekom said today.  “We’re seeing a stabilization of the economies in eastern  Europe ,” Chief Financial Officer Timotheus Hoettges said at a
press briefing in Bonn.  Deutsche Telekom hasn’t named a successor to Guido Kerkhoff, the board member in charge of Europe excluding Germany
who will join steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG next month.  Chief Executive Officer Rene Obermann is pushing its Web TV
service Entertain and use of smartphones in Germany to make up
for people dropping their fixed lines. The company is investing
in fiber-optic networks and in the next-generation long-term
evolution wireless technology to cater to increased data
downloads both at home and on mobile devices.  In the U.S., where Deutsche Telekom plans to add $3 billion
to sales by 2014 and is considering partnerships to acquire
wireless spectrum for the next generation mobile-phone network,
the T-Mobile USA unit lost 318,000 contract customers in the
fourth quarter.  T-Mobile USA  “That is massive, it is becoming Sprintesque,” said
Michael Kovacocy, an analyst at Evolution Securities, in a
telephone interview from  London , referring to  Sprint Nextel
Corp .’s customer losses immediately after its merger. “That is
10 times the 32,000 consensus contract customer losses.”  The fourth-largest mobile-phone operator in the U.S. after
Verizon, AT&T and Sprint Nextel accounts for about a quarter of
the German company’s sales and has seen profit slide as it
trailed rivals in building out a third-generation mobile network
and missed out on  Apple Inc .’s iPhones.  “In July last year, I told the supervisory board that we
would need 15 to 18 months to solve the structural problems in
the U.S.,” Hoettges told reporters today. Deutsche Telekom
wants to improve the return on capital in the U.S. and needs to
secure spectrum on which it can build its next-generation
wireless network based on long-term evolution, or LTE,
technology. Hoettges ruled out a sale of  T-Mobile USA .  Churn Rate  T-Mobile USA sales fell 0.9 percent in the quarter to $5.36
billion, while operating profit before depreciation and
amortization fell 2.4 percent to $1.34 billion. The rate of
contract customers leaving the service accelerated to 2.5
percent from 2.4 percent. In January, Deutsche Telekom said it
wants to reduce contract churn to 2 percent this year and below
1.8 percent in 2012.  Buying U.S. wireless spectrum from Clearwire Corp. is one
of the “multiple options” for the German company, CFO Hoettges
said, adding that it is in discussions with numerous potential
partners. Deutsche Telekom plans to approach the market for
buyers of its U.S. wireless towers in the second quarter, and a
sale could fetch “low single-digit billion” U.S. dollars, he
said.  Deutsche Telekom isn’t looking at multi-billion dollar
acquisitions and will put its emphasis on growth opportunities
such as in wireless Internet, home networks and cloud-computing
services, CEO Obermann told Bloomberg Television in an
interview. He added that the company’s 2015 target is on track.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Bonn via 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Bonn via 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 