-- 
Draghi's ECB Bid Faces German Gas-Pump Angst as Berlusconi Fights Scandal

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-02-25T10:54:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/draghi-s-ecb-bid-faces-german-gas-pump-angst-as-berlusconi-fights-scandal.html
  Mario Draghi ’s campaign to take
charge of the  European Central Bank  must overcome Italy’s
reputation as a country with a legacy of inflation and with a
prime minister indicted for paying a minor for sex.  Draghi, 63, is ranked by bookmaker Paddy Power Plc as the
favorite to win the job after Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  on
Feb. 11 unexpectedly pulled out of the race. While Draghi’s
duties heading the Italian central bank and the  Financial
Stability Board ’s drive to rewrite global financial rules make
him the most senior candidate, success will depend on the
support of the bloc’s biggest governments.  European leaders are looking for a successor to Jean-Claude Trichet just as they try to convince voters to offer more
financial support to debt-strapped nations across the euro
region’s periphery. With German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government contributing more than any other to European
bailouts, Draghi’s candidacy may stand or fall on her support.  “It will be Germany’s call who will become ECB
president,” said  Carsten Brzeski , a former European Commission
official and now a senior economist at ING Group in Brussels.
“Germany’s populist press tars Draghi with everything that’s
seen as bad about Italy -- fiscal irresponsibility, high
inflation and Berlusconi’s sex scandals.”  Verona Speech  Draghi may give insight into his thinking on economic and
financial policy when he speaks at a  conference  in Verona,
Italy, tomorrow, one of three main addresses he gives each year.
A Bank of Italy spokeswoman declined a request for an interview
with the governor.  Weber’s surprise decision to withdraw blew open the race to
succeed Trichet when he retires in October. Other possible
candidates include Finnish central bank chief Erkki Liikanen,
Luxembourg’s  Yves Mersch , Dutch counterpart Nout Wellink and
Klaus Regling, a German who runs  Europe ’s bailout fund.  Dublin-based Paddy Power has offered odds of 4 to 9 on
Draghi succeeding Trichet, meaning a gambler making a 9-euro
($12) bet would win 4 euros in addition to the original stake.
Liikanen was second favorite on 2 to 1, and the bookmaker
offered odds of 8 to 1 on Mersch and Wellink. Regling was a 20
to 1 outsider.  Merkel Setback  With European Union leaders scheduled to huddle in Brussels
at the end of March to redesign Europe’s fiscal architecture,
Merkel is under pressure at home. Her party suffered one its
worst defeats since World War II in a state election this week
as voters vented their frustration over accelerating inflation
and EU bailouts for debt-strapped  Greece  and Ireland.  Assessing Draghi’s candidacy, Bild,  Germany ’s biggest-
selling newspaper, wrote on Feb. 11 that “inflation is as much
a part of Italian life as tomato sauce and pasta.”  “The German at the petrol pump picks up Bild newspaper and
concludes that with Draghi at the ECB, he’ll have to pay through
the nose for petrol and just about everything and he’ll blame
Merkel for that,” Brzeski said.  Italy had inflation exceeding Germany’s in all but one year
in the decade through 2009, according to data from the
 International Monetary Fund . In the 10 years before the start of
the euro in 1999, Italian inflation averaged 4.4 percent
compared with 2.7 percent in Germany, based on data from
government statistics offices in the two countries.  Risk Premium  While  Italy  also has the euro-region’s second-largest debt
load at almost 120 percent of gross domestic product, investors
are less concerned about its fiscal health than other European
nations. The Italian yield spread over equivalent German debt
was 169 basis points today, compared with 872 basis points for
Greece, 620 basis points for Ireland and 437 basis points for
Portugal.  Draghi may already have started lobbying for German support
by giving assurances that, like Weber, he won’t be soft on
inflation and will press for fiscal responsibility.  In a Feb. 14 interview with newspaper Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung, Draghi hailed Germany as an example for
other nations, calling for tougher sanctions for budget-rule
breaches and vowing to ensure price stability. In a Feb. 21
event in Bologna he said the “best contribution the central
bank can make is to continue to ensure  price stability .”  Campaign Season  “Draghi’s campaign has started in earnest,” said Laurent Bilke, a former ECB forecaster and now heads global inflation
strategy at Nomura International in  London .  Draghi’s international experience sets him apart from other
possible candidates such as Mersch, Liikanen or Wellink and may
help overcome his ties to Italy.  Draghi holds a doctorate from the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, was a director general of the  World Bank  for six
years and was charged by the Group of 20 nations with revamping
global banking regulation in the wake of the financial crisis in
his current role as head of the  Financial Stability Forum .
Draghi was also previously chairman of the European Economic and
Financial Committee, which helped introduce the euro.  “Draghi is an excellent candidate,” said Giuliano Amato,
a two-time Italian prime minister who last held the post from
2000 to 2001, while Draghi was at the Italian Treasury.
“Perhaps no one else is equally equipped for the job.”  ‘Draghi’ Law  After a stint as an economics professor at the University
of Florence from 1981 to 1991, Draghi was director general of
the Italian Treasury from 1991 to 2001. He oversaw the revision
of Italian financial market rules that become known as the
Draghi law. He also led the Italian Committee for Privatization,
which sold off $105 billion of stakes in companies including
Enel SpA and  Telecom Italia SpA .  Married with two children, Draghi was appointed to lead
Italy’s central bank at the end of 2005, replacing Antonio Fazio, who was indicted in a criminal investigation for favoring
Italian lenders in merger battles.  Draghi “is a very strong candidate,” European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development President, Germany’s Thomas Mirow, said in a Feb. 23 interview with Sueddeutsche Zeitung.
“He has comprehensive knowledge in regulation and supervision
and also experience in private banking, which could be very
helpful.”  “I don’t think there will be a German candidate,” Mirow,
a former deputy finance minister added, according to the
newspaper.  Goldman Stint  Draghi’s candidacy may be complicated by his 2002 to 2005
stint as a vice chairman of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., which
arranged currency swaps that helped Greece hide the extent of
its  budget deficit . Draghi had “nothing to do with those
transactions,” Italy’s central bank said in a statement on Feb.
17 last year.  Draghi’s chances haven’t been helped by Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi, who is embroiled in a sex scandal that has
weakened his government. The premier was ordered on Feb. 15 to
stand trial on charges of abuse of power and paying a minor for
sex, fueling calls for his resignation.  Berlusconi is the only prime minister to have openly
endorsed a candidate for the ECB job and did so as early as
February last year, exposing Draghi to scrutiny almost two years
before the post becomes available.  Whoever replaces Trichet faces the task of implementing a
one-size-fits-all monetary policy while growth and inflation
rates in the euro area are diverging.  Economic Growth  Italy emerged from the global recession more slowly than
its euro-area partners. In the fourth quarter, GDP rose 0.1
percent from the previous three months and 1.3 percent from a
year earlier. Germany’s economy, the region’s biggest, grew 0.4
percent in the same quarter and 4 percent from a year earlier.  With euro-area inflation already running at the fastest
pace in more than two years, the ECB may have to raise  interest
rates  later this year.  Draghi is “a moderate hawk,” said  Marco Valli , an
economist at UniCredit Group in Milan, adding that this may make
him more palatable to the Germans.  Even so, Europe’s largest economy may withhold its support
because another southern European, Vitor Constancio of Portugal,
is already ECB vice president. Merkel may choose to throw her
weight behind a smaller, northern European compromise candidate
such as Mersch or Liikanen.  “The objection to Draghi’s candidacy is essentially the
issue of how you can have an Italian president and at the same
time a Portuguese vice president,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-
income strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in London. “But
it’s not about nationality, likewise the whole budget thing is
not about nationality, it’s about behavior.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  