-- 
EADS Loss of U.S. Tanker Deal Threatens Plan to Reduce Airbus Jet Exposure

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-02-25T11:56:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/eads-loss-of-u-s-tanker-deal-threatens-plan-to-reduce-airbus-jet-exposure.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co.’s rejection for a $35 billion U.S. tanker contract threatens
its goal to cut reliance on commercial aircraft and may force it
to seek acquisitions at home to build up defense operations.  EADS, based in Paris and Munich, relies on its Airbus SAS
civil aircraft unit for two thirds of all sales. Chief Executive
Officer  Louis Gallois  had aimed to balance that distribution by
2020, partly by gaining more access to the U.S. military market,
the world’s largest. After  Boeing Co . yesterday beat EADS on the
tanker bid, achieving that goal may take longer, analysts said.  “It’ll be very difficult,” said  Nick Cunningham , an
analyst at London-based Agency Partners. “The U.S. accounts for
50 percent of defense spending in the West, and EADS has very
limited access to that.”  EADS has sought for years to crack the U.S. defense market
with orders and acquisitions. The company has failed to date to
derive a meaningful portion of revenue from that region, with
less than 2 percent of EADS’s military revenue stemming from the
U.S. Gallois today called the tanker loss a “missed
opportunity,” saying he would look elsewhere for growth.  Targeting Purchases  One option may be for EADS to consider acquisitions in  France , where the defense market is fragmented, said Cunningham,
who has covered the aviation industry for more than two decades.
Among possible targets is defense electronics maker  Thales SA , a
maker of military electronics and security equipment, he said.  EADS, which had 42.8 billion euros ($60 billion) in sales
in 2009, has several times in recent years expressed an interest
in Thales, a 13-billion-euro company. The French government,
which controls 27 percent of Thales, has rejected those
overtures. Instead, family-controlled Dassault Aviation, which
makes the Rafale combat jet, built up a 26 percent stake. EADS
owns 46 percent of Dassault.  Gallois has said repeatedly that EADS would be willing to
spend as much as $1.5 billion on an acquisition in the U.S. to
help increase its footprint there. So far, the company, with
about 10 billion euros in cash, has made very few purchases. Its
biggest acquisition in the U.S. was Plant CML, an airport
security business based in  California , for $350 million in 2008.  Shrinking Budgets  The U.S. has become even more critical for EADS as home
markets have begun to shrink. Spending in the U.K., where EADS
has won numerous defense contracts including a tanker
competition, will be reduced by 8 percent over four years, Prime
Minister  David Cameron  said Oct. 19. As pressure increased last
year to cut spending amid an unfolding European debt crisis, the
German government ordered cumulative savings of 8.3 billion
euros ($11.43 billion) in the  defense budget  by 2014.  EADS is best known for its Airbus aircraft, which include
the A320 family of single-aisle jets and the A380 double-decker,
the world’s largest passenger jet. Airbus leapfrogged Boeing as
the largest maker of commercial aircraft in 2003, a lead the
European manufacturer has retained to this date.  EADS’s tanker was modeled on its A330 wide-body aircraft,
while Boeing’s successful bid used the older and smaller 767
jet. Airbus is also developing the wide-body, long-range A350
with 300 to 350 seats that is scheduled to begin service in late
2013, competing against Boeing’s 777 and 787 models.  Naked Run  Gallois said he was “disappointed” and “perplexed” by
the Pentagon’s decision. Until the U.S. Defense Department
debriefs EADS next week about the reasons for its choice, EADS
won’t comment on immediate next steps, and whether it will seek
to formally challenge the decision, Gallois said.  “I would have run naked down Fifth Avenue” if EADS had
won the tanker bid, given the political obstacles in the  Air
Force  to choose a French- and German company over a U.S.
manufacturer for the tanker, said  Sandy Morris , an analyst at
Royal Bank of  Scotland  in  London .  EADS had earlier been optimistic about its chances, given
that its Airbus A330-200 was chosen as platform for the tanker
in 2008. The victory was short-lived after Boeing successfully
challenged the decision and forced a rematch.  While EADS has won some business in the U.S. military
market, including a $2 billion contract to supply the U.S. Army
with a fleet of light-utility helicopters, the tanker would have
been by far the most prized order to date for the company.  The “contract loss is a clear disappointment given that it
would have provided EADS with a greater US footprint, and
therefore lower  currency risk , and increased exposure to
defence, a stated management ambition,” Morgan Stanley analyst
Rupinder Vig said in a note to clients today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 