-- 
Heavy Rain, Winds Bring Flood Threat to U.S. Northeast

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-02-25T16:24:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/heavy-rain-winds-bring-flood-threat-to-u-s-northeast.html
Flights to airports in parts of the
U.S. Northeast were delayed as much as three hours or more as a
storm packing 2 inches (5 centimeters) of rain and wind gusts as
high as 60 mph (97 kph) moved across the northern U.S.  Winter storm warnings range from  Ohio  to Maine, while high
wind warnings and watches extend from  North Carolina  to
Massachusetts, according to the  National Weather Service . Almost
1,100 flights were canceled today, the  FlightAware  tracking
service reported.  A cold front will move through the New York City area about
3 p.m., raising sustained winds to as high as 30 mph with gusts
of 60 mph or higher, said Lauren Nash, a weather service
meteorologist in  Upton, New York .  “They are already gusting pretty high and it is only going
to get worse with the wind,” Nash said. The wind and rain will
taper off by midnight, the agency said.  The winds were blamed for flight delays averaging about two
and one-half hours at  New York ’s LaGuardia Airport, according to
an airport statement. Flights into Philadelphia and Newark
Liberty were being delayed by more than 3 hours, the  Federal
Aviation Administration  said on its website.  East Coast Outlook  East Coast cities from Philadelphia to Boston will receive
rain from the storm, said  Tom Kines , a meteorologist with
AccuWeather Inc. in State College, Pennsylvania. To the north, a
region stretching from northern Missouri to Maine will receive 3
inches to 6 inches of snow, he said.  “Some areas will pick up more than 6 with the best chances
most likely in western New York and northern parts of New
England,” Kines said.  Residents of southern Ontario should expect as much as 7
inches of snow, according to  Environment Canada . Parts of
southern  Quebec  may receive as much as 9 inches, the weather
agency said.  A separate system may mean snowfall for parts of  California , including the hills in and around  San Francisco ,
Kines said.  The weather service issued a winter storm advisory, meaning
snow at elevations above 1,000 feet, for areas around San
Francisco and San Jose, including Napa County, where a freeze
warning was posted.  Kines said as much as 3 feet of snow may fall in the Sierra
Nevada region.  That system will move across the country and bring more
rain to the U.S. Northeast early next week, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  