-- 
Hedge Funds Cutting Food-Price Bets as Grain Prices Take `Harrowing' Fall

-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-02-25T22:49:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/hedge-funds-cutting-food-price-bets-as-grain-prices-take-harrowing-fall-.html
  Hedge funds  are leading an exodus
from agricultural markets, slashing bullish bets in the U.S.
from almost the highest levels on record after grain prices
slumped, money managers said.  Speculators reduced bets on rising wheat prices by 57
percent in the week ended Feb. 22, the biggest drop since
November, according to data released today by the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission. Bullish bets on soybeans fell 17
percent, declining for a third straight week, and those for corn
slid 1.8 percent to a seven-week low.  Holdings in eight agriculture commodities by money managers
are higher than during the global food crisis three years ago.
Floods from  Canada  to  Australia  and drought from  China  to  Russia 
ruined crops and drove food prices tracked by the  United Nations 
to a record in January. That helped spark protests across North
Africa and the Middle East, toppling leaders in Tunisia and
Egypt.  Agricultural “products had a great run, but now the
opportunity appears to be in oil and gold,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps oversee $17 billion at BB&T Wealth
Management in Birmingham, Alabama. “If I am the hedge-fund
manager, I’m getting killed on the long grain positions.”  ‘Off The Charts’  Before today, the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index
of eight futures declined 6.8 percent since Feb. 17, a four-
session slump that was the longest since October and included an
11 percent plunge by  Chicago  wheat futures. The managed-money
category of investors tracked by the CFTC includes hedge funds,
commodity pools and trading advisers.  “The amount of speculative positions is off the charts,”
said Nic Johnson, who helps manage about $30 billion in
commodities at Pacific Investment Management Co. in  Newport
Beach ,  California . “What you’ve seen in the last few days is
liquidation of that length.”  Wheat futures reached a 29-month high of $9.1675 a bushel
on the Chicago Board of Trade on Feb. 14, and since then the
price is down 12 percent. Before today, corn dropped 6.4 percent
from a 31-month high of $7.4425 a bushel reached Feb. 22, and
soybeans slid 8.7 percent since touching a 30-month high of
$14.5575 a bushel on Feb. 9.  Prices rebounded today. Wheat futures for May delivery
advanced 28.75 cents, or 3.7 percent, to close at $8.1125 a
bushel, while corn futures for May delivery gained 25.5 cents,
or 3.7 percent, to $7.22. Soybean futures for May delivery
jumped 45.75 cents, or 3.4 percent, to $13.75.  ‘Nerves on Edge’  “Some funds definitely had a harrowing moment,”  Peter Sorrentino , who helps manage $13.8 billion at Huntington Asset
Advisors, said by telephone from Cincinnati. “There were some
nerves on edge.”  Crude oil traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  jumped
to $100 a barrel on Feb. 23 for the first time in two years as
clashes in Libya threatened to disrupt supplies from  Africa ’s
third-biggest producer. Through yesterday, gold rose for eight
consecutive trading sessions in New York.  Loyalists of Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi are seeking to
crush dissent in the capital, Tripoli, as opponents tighten
their control of eastern cities. The fighting is the most
violent yet seen in six weeks of protests across the Middle East
and North Africa.  In agriculture, “the big speculators were holding very
large net-long positions and have begun to liquidate those
positions to take some profits after the strong rally,” said  Dan Cekander , the director of grain research at Newedge USA LLC
in Chicago. “We may have reached the limit of their buying.”  Agriculture Move  The move into agriculture accelerated in the past six
months. Corn is up 46 percent since the end of September, while
soybeans advanced 24 percent and wheat 20 percent. Open
interest, or contracts outstanding, reached record levels this
month for all three commodities, according to Chris Grams, a
spokesman for  CME Group Inc ., the world’s largest futures
market.  Investors put a record $2.6 billion into agriculture-index
swaps, exchange-traded products and medium-term notes last
month, after pouring $5.7 billion during the fourth quarter of
2010, according to  Barclays Capital .  Bullish Bets  In the week ended Feb. 8, hedge funds and other speculators
increased bullish bets on wheat to a combined 51,787 futures and
options contracts, the highest since August 2007, CFTC data
show. The net-long position in soybeans reached an all-time high
of 179,753 contracts in the seven days ended Nov. 9, and corn
reached a record of 429,189 the week ended Sept. 28.  Demand for new shares of 19 exchange-traded products
tracking agricultural commodities rose 33 percent this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares outstanding in
Deutsche Bank AG’s $3.5 billion PowerShares DB Agriculture
exchange-traded fund expanded 24 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The number of shares in the fund fell 4.9
percent since reaching a record on Feb. 17.  “The trend itself is based on fundamentals, but price
moves are magnified on the upside and downside by demand from
speculators,” said  James Paulsen , the chief investment
strategist at Minneapolis-based Wells Capital Management, which
oversees $340 billion. “There are a whole host of portfolios
out there, and for a small fraction of them to be convinced to
own some commodities, that is a huge new demand.”  Livestock  Barclays Plc’s iPath Dow Jones-UBS ETNs also attracted
money. Shares outstanding in its $347 million grains ETN rose 83
percent since the start of the year, the $295 million
agriculture index ETN more than doubled, and units in the $117
million livestock ETN increased 75 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Demand also increased for structured notes, or debt
packaged with derivatives linked to agriculture prices. Banks
issued $139.4 million of agriculture-linked structured notes in
the U.S. this month, 86 percent more than in all of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s real scarcity there,” said Peter Timmer, a
professor emeritus at  Harvard University  and an expert in food
policy. “We need to deal with that. But we don’t need to
exacerbate the scarcity with all this hot money.”  The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July and named for its
primary sponsors, former Senator Christopher Dodd and
Congressman Barney Frank, expanded the CFTC’s authority to the
over-the-counter market. The agency is drafting new market rules
that may to go into effect later this year, including caps on
the number of speculative positions one firm can hold.  Economy, Crops  Chicago-based CME Group said in an October letter to the
CFTC that the agency can’t set caps without proof that excessive
speculation is a problem.  “The real driving force behind what’s going on is global
economic growth and reductions in crop size,”  Dennis Gartman ,
an economist and the editor of the Suffolk, Virginia-based
Gartman Letter, said in a telephone interview Feb. 16.
“Political figures who are trying to blame rising prices upon
speculation are ill-advised.”  French President Nicolas Sarkozy accused commodity
speculators of “extortion” and “pillaging” in an address to
the African Union on Jan. 30. He pledged to take action against
traders during his leadership of the Group of 20 policy makers
this year.  “Without a doubt, these higher prices will encourage a
more robust regulatory effort,” said Gary Blumenthal, the
president of World Perspectives Inc., an agricultural consulting
company in  Washington . “It’s very hard for politicians to
ignore public angst even when that angst is founded on imperfect
information.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in  New York  at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  