-- 
Mediobanca Net Beats Analyst Estimates as Provisions Drop

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-02-25T16:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/mediobanca-net-beats-analyst-estimates-as-provisions-drop-1-.html
  Mediobanca SpA ,  Italy ’s biggest
publicly traded investment bank, said fiscal second-quarter
profit almost doubled as interest income increased and bad-loan
provisions declined.  Net income rose to 135.3 million euros ($186.5 million) in
the three months to Dec. 31, from 69.5 million euros a year
earlier, the Milan-based bank said in a statement today. That
beat the 102 million-euro average estimate of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Mediobanca shares gained.  Mediobanca is hiring analysts and expanding its banking
team outside its home market to accelerate growth. Chief
Executive Officer  Alberto Nagel  said in October the bank may
consider acquisitions in private banking or  consumer credit  to
boost revenue.  “The contribution from international branches is growing
strongly in the investment banking division,” Nagel told
analysts today during a conference call. The “group is
confident” that it will keep growing, he said.  Mediobanca shares rose 3.5 percent to 7.64 euros as of 4:35
p.m. in Milan trading, giving the company a market value of 6.6
billion euros.  “We believe consensus for 2012 company’s earnings will
move up by at least a mid-single-digit percentage point on the
back of these results,” Aldo Comi, a London-based banking
analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd. who has an
“outperform” recommendation on the stock, said.  Earnings Outlook  Mediobanca’s net income in 2012 may rise to 711 million
euros, according to 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg before
today’s release. The estimate for 2011 is 556 million euros.  Loan-loss provisions in the quarter declined 17 percent to
107 million euros, while net interest income gained 18 percent
to 269 million euros. Total revenue climbed 15 percent to 535
million euros in the period, boosted by growth at the CheBanca!
retail unit.  Nagel expects the unit, set up three years ago to offset
losses on equities, to break even this year. In the fiscal first
half, CheBanca! losses narrowed to 14.7 million euros from 48.8
million euros a year earlier.  “CheBanca! is reverting from a cost story to a revenue
story,” the CEO said.  The company’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a key measure of
financial strength, was unchanged at 11.1 percent at the end of
December, making Mediobanca one of the best-capitalized lenders
in the country.  “The lender’s position in terms of capital and liquidity
already complies with  capital requirements  outlined in the Basel
III rules,” Nagel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  