-- 
Telefonica Profit Drops 45 Percent on Spanish Economic Woes, Revamp Charge

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-02-25T17:26:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/telefonica-profit-falls-45-missing-estimates-after-wireless-sales-drop.html
  Telefonica SA , Europe’s second-
largest phone company, said fourth-quarter profit declined 45
percent because of costs to cut jobs and as domestic wireless
revenue slumped amid  Spain ’s economic crisis.  Net income dropped to 1.33 billion euros ($1.84 billion)
from 2.44 billion euros a year earlier, Telefonica said today.
Earnings were hurt by a one-time charge of 1.1 billion euros
stemming from job cuts, investments in the company’s foundation
and the re-evaluation of a pension fund in  Colombia . Latin
America propelled sales up 9.9 percent to 16.46 billion euros,
beating analysts’ estimates for 16.3 billion euros.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is
betting on high dividends and Latin America’s rapid growth to
lure investors discouraged by the Spanish government’s austerity
measures and the highest  unemployment rate  in the euro region.
Telefonica yesterday also said it is studying the possible sale
of Atento Inversiones y Teleservicios SAU, its call-center unit,
and may consider a public share sale.  “The results illustrate the diverging dynamics in
Telefonica’s businesses, with Spain continuing to underperform
on a combination of macro weakness and pricing pressure, while
Latin America continues to outperform,” Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s analysts said in a note to clients today.  Telefonica shares rose 1.6 percent to 18.28 euros in
Madrid.  Divestments  The company plans “further workforce restructuring” in
its Spanish business, as well as cutting manager positions by 6
percent and possible outsourcing to service providers, it said
in a presentation today. Telefonica will also divest “non-
strategic activities,” it said.  The company today forecast that sales will grow as much as
2 percent this year as it targets a profit margin, based on
operating income before depreciation and amortization, or Oibda,
in the “upper” 30 percent range. Fourth-quarter Oibda dropped
9.5 percent to 5.41 billion euros.  The Madrid-based company, the worst-performing phone
operator in the Bloomberg  Europe  Telecommunication Service Index
last year, said on Feb. 23 it plans to increase the dividend for
2011 by 14 percent to 1.60 euros a share. The company confirmed
its target to pay at least 1.75 euros a share in 2012.  Telefonica may be interested in selling Atento “to
deleverage and to keep remunerating shareholders,” Giovanni Montalti, a London-based analyst at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux
SA, said by phone.  Atento Sale  Atento’s fourth-quarter sales rose 29 percent to 454
million euros while Oibda climbed 23 percent to 64 million
euros. Atento may be valued at between 1.5 billion euros and 1.7
billion euros, provided that the current level of profitability
and revenue growth continues, Francisco Salvador, a strategist
at Madrid-based FGA-MG Valores, said by phone.  A spokesman for Telefonica today declined to comment on the
sales process and the potential proceeds.  Alierta also said the company will maintain its “present
position” in  Telecom Italia SpA  and is “very happy” with the
management of the Italian company. Telefonica is an investor in
Telecom Italia’s biggest shareholder, Telco SpA.  Telefonica’s fourth-quarter sales in Latin America climbed
20 percent to 7.61 billion euros, while revenue in Spain
declined 8 percent to 4.67 billion euros.  Latin American Boost  The company said today its merger and acquisition strategy
is focused on “acquiring spectrum in current markets” and it
will continue “investing for growth” in Latin America.  “The company will have to face the economic crisis in
Spain, while trying to grow in broadband mobile services and
maximizing its purchases in  Brazil ,”Salvador said. “Its track
record makes us think it’ll be able to manage the situation.”  Telefonica’s 2010 net income climbed 30.8 percent to 10.17
billion euros boosted by a gain related to its 7.5 billion-euro
purchase of control of  Vivo Participacoes SA , Brazil’s largest
wireless operator.  Last year, Alierta raised his bid three times to convince
Portugal Telecom SGPS SA to sell its part of their 50-50 venture
that controlled Vivo Participacoes. The Spanish executive added
1.8 billion euros to his original offer as he sought to combine
it with Telefonica’s fixed-line unit in the Latin American
country.  “Even though Telefonica is more diversified than its
peers, it can’t get away from the fact that Spain is its main
market,” said Morten Singleton, an analyst at Investec
Securities in  London . “Spain is Telefonica’s biggest concern as
it’ll take a few years until the economy recovers and it’s
facing increasing competition. This is very difficult to
change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  