-- 
Elpida Scraps Plans to Buy Taiwan DRAM Makers After Opposition to Mergers

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-02-25T08:40:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/elpida-scraps-plans-to-buy-taiwan-dram-makers-after-opposition-to-mergers.html
  Elpida Memory Inc ., the world’s
third-largest maker of computer-memory chips, said it scrapped
plans to merge with Taiwanese chipmakers following opposition
from the target companies.  “Most Taiwan DRAM companies’ presidents don’t want
integration,” Elpida Chief Executive Officer Yukio Sakamoto
said in reference to producers of dynamic random access memory
chips, during an interview in Taipei today. “We’re better
having many product lines with  Taiwan  DRAM companies.”  The comments reverse a plan announced last year to buy
stakes in Taiwanese chipmakers to consolidate and counter
competition from market leader Samsung Electronics Co.
Chipmakers face mounting pressure to unite to keep up with the
estimated $10 billion the South Korean company invests annually
to widen its lead in chip output.  Elpida is still considering buying a stake in  ProMOS
Technologies Inc ., said Sakamoto, who’s in Taipei to celebrate
the debut of the company’s depositary receipts on the  Taiwan
Stock Exchange . The Tokyo-based company also plans to work with
Taiwan companies to enter  China , Sakamoto said without
elaborating.  “We 100 percent agree to jointly move into China, because
if we move into China by ourselves, we’ve a 99.99 percent chance
to fail,” Sakamoto said earlier today in a speech.  Taiwan Listing  The company gained 6.4 percent to 1,216 yen in Tokyo, the
biggest advance in almost five months. Its Taiwan Depositary
Receipt climbed 1.9 percent to NT$21.70 in Taipei on the first
day of trading.  Powerchip climbed 1.3 percent to close at NT$6.33 in
Taipei, falling back from a 4.5 percent gain in earlier trading.  Listing in Taiwan, where the chipmaker already has a joint
venture and outsourcing agreements with  Powerchip Technology
Corp ., would allow Elpida to raise money and deepen alliances in
the island, Sakamoto had said earlier.  In October, Sakamoto said inaction would make it
“impossible” for Taiwanese chipmakers and “tough” for Elpida
to survive because of their lack of scale.  The DRAM industry is marked by companies driven out of the
business by low-cost competitors and cycles of boom-and-bust.
The last recession pushed German memory-chip maker Qimonda AG
into bankruptcy.  Elpida is trying to avoid the same fate. In 2009,
Sakamoto’s company received a 30 billion yen ($362 million)
bailout from the state-run  Development Bank of Japan  following a
record annual loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 