-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Rise for First Time This Week on Oil Drop

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-02-25T06:46:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/emerging-market-stocks-rise-for-first-time-this-week-on-oil-drop.html
Emerging-market stocks rebounded
from a four-day decline as crude oil retreated below $100 a
barrel, easing concerns the global economic recovery will slow.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 0.6 percent to
1,094.05 at 1:42 p.m. in  Singapore , paring the week’s decline to
2.5 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index gained 0.9 percent.  India ’s
benchmark stock measure added 0.4 percent. Vietnam’s VN Index
rebounded 1.2 percent from its lowest close since Dec. 9.  Developing nation equities halted their longest losing
streak in two weeks after the U.S.,  Saudi Arabia  and the
International Energy Agency made assurances they can compensate
for any disruption to oil supplies caused by an uprising in
Libya, Africa’s third-largest producer. Korean Air Lines Co. led
an advance by carriers. Hynix Semiconductor Inc. rallied in
Seoul after analysts said prices for memory chips may climb.  “It’s a rebound fueled by the statement by Saudi Arabia
that they will step in to bump up oil production,” said Jason
Chong, who helps manage about $900 million of assets as chief
investment officer at Manulife Asset Management   Malaysia ) Sdn.
in  Kuala Lumpur . “There are still uncertainties and
geopolitical risk in the Middle East, though we view the current
correction as an opportunity to buy on weakness.”  New York oil futures retreated from $103.41 yesterday, the
highest in 29 months, after President Barack Obama said the U.S.
will be able to “ride out” a cut resulting from turmoil in
Libya. Crude for April delivery lost as much as 0.7 percent
$96.61 a barrel. Crude recently traded at $97.76 a barrel.  Airlines Advance  Korean Air Lines, South Korea’s largest carrier, jumped 4.8
percent in Seoul.  AirAsia Bhd ., Southeast Asia’s biggest budget
airline, surged 6 percent in Kuala Lumpur trading after fourth-
quarter profit increased ninefold from a year earlier.  Hynix, the world’s second-largest maker of computer-memory
chips, rose 4.1 percent after analysts said contract prices may
climb next month. Unisem Bhd., Malaysia’s second-biggest
semiconductor assembler, surged 6.1 percent after fourth-quarter
net income rose 16 percent from a year earlier to 40.7 million
ringgit on higher sales.  HTC Corp. surged by the 6.8 percent daily limit in Taipei
on speculation the sale of new handsets from next month will
boost revenue, said Chen Wei-hang, an analyst at President
Capital Management Corp. HTC Chief Financial Officer Winston
Yung didn’t answer two calls to his office at Taoyuan,  Taiwan .    China  Banks  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the world’s
largest bank by market value, led gains by Chinese lenders.  China’s inflation price gains may have cooled to 4.8
percent in February from 4.9 percent in January, China
International Capital Corp. and Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.
said in separate notes today.  “As we get into the back half of the year, some of the
near-term cyclical inflation we’re seeing right now in China,  Brazil  and most other emerging markets will start to abate,”  Russ Koesterich , the San Francisco-based head of investment
strategy for scientific active equities at BlackRock Inc., said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  Vietnam’s VN Index climbed after slumping 12 percent from
its December peak through yesterday. Stocks have fallen on
concern a government plan to curb inflation will slow the
economy, according to Bao Viet Securities Co. and  Vietnam 
International Securities Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  