-- 
Erste Shares Fall on Revenue as Hungary, Romania Curb Growth

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-02-25T16:39:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/erste-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-as-bad-debt-charges-decline.html
  Erste Group Bank AG  shares fell
after fourth-quarter results showed revenue “weakness” and
eastern  Europe ’s second-biggest lender said Hungary and  Romania 
will dent earnings growth this year.  Erste dropped 1 percent to 37.61 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close of trading in Vienna, the third-worst performer in the 48-
company Bloomberg 500 Banks & Financial Services Index, which
gained 1.4 percent. The stock topped all peers in the gauge last
year, climbing 35 percent.  Net interest income at the Austrian lender missed analysts’
estimates today, and Erste posted its lowest total banking
revenue in seven quarters. Deutsche Bank AG analyst Alexander Hendricks cut his stock recommendation to “hold” from “buy,”
citing “weakness in revenue development” and “the lowest pre-
provision profit in more than a year” in a note to clients.  Like other lenders operating in eastern Europe, such as
market leader  UniCredit SpA  and  Raiffeisen Bank International
AG , Erste is betting that business in the former Communist bloc
becomes a driver of profit again as credit growth returns and
loan losses decline after sapping profits in the past two years.  The results “simply don’t show a growth story, the market
won’t like that,” said Daniele Brupbacher, a banking analyst at
UBS AG. “The growth has to come now, but I suspect in the next
two quarters it’s not going to be stellar,” Brupbacher said. He
has a “neutral” rating on the stock.  Fourth-quarter net income at Erste rose 52 percent to 279
million euros ($385 million), beating the average estimate of
270 million euros in a Bloomberg survey of 13 analysts.  ‘Remain Elevated’  Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl told journalists in
Vienna today that he expects profit to rise, declining to say by
how much. The average estimate of analysts for next year’s net
income predicts a 32 percent gain to 1.34 billion euros.  The drop in bad debt will be driven by Erste’s domestic
Austrian business as well as the Czech and Slovak Republics,
where Erste owns the biggest banks, Chief Risk Officer Bernhard Spalt told analysts in a conference call.  Meanwhile, bad-loan charges will “remain elevated” and
loan growth won’t return before the second half of the year in  Hungary  and Romania, Spalt said. Erste reported  fourth-quarter
losses  in both countries because of loan-loss provisions,
declining revenue in Romania and the new banking tax in Hungary.  Romania’s economy contracted again last year and -- at 21
percent of all loans -- it has the second-highest share of bad
debt in the European Union after  Latvia , according to  UniCredit
analysts . At the same time, competition for loans has driven
down lending margins, Erste’s Spalt said, echoing similar
comments by UniCredit and Raiffeisen earlier this month.  Bank Levies  In Hungary, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government pushed
lenders into losses with a special bank levy that Erste said
will hurt it again this year with 35 million euros after tax.  Austria ’s bank levy will have an impact of 100 million euros
after tax.  Loan-loss provisions fell 27 percent to 443 million euros
in the fourth quarter, the lowest level since the first quarter
of 2009 and less than analysts estimated. Erste said the decline
was mostly due to the release of provisions for loans by large
corporate clients.  The lender didn’t record a net quarterly increase in non-
performing loans for the first time since the second quarter of
2008 as bad debt remained at 7.6 percent of total loans.
Analysts in a Bloomberg survey projected 7.9 percent on average.    Government Aid   Erste plans to pay a dividend of 65 cents a share,
unchanged from the previous year. Uncertainty about new capital
rules for so-called systemically important banks stopped him
from paying out more, Treichl said.  The bank will also pay back the 1.2 billion euros in
capital from the Austrian government Erste got in 2009,
preferably in a single installment, once uncertainty is removed,
Treichl said. He reiterated that Erste can pay back the money
without selling new shares, adding that the market perception of
capital needs could change that view.  Erste’s core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial strength,
stood at 9.2 percent at the end of last year including the state
capital, and at 7.7 percent without it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  