-- 
Tesco's Clarke Faces `Big Struggle' in U.K. as Rivals Close In

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-02-25T00:01:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/tesco-s-clarke-faces-big-struggle-in-u-k-as-rivals-attack-leahy-legacy.html
  Philip Clarke  spent the last seven
years helping  Tesco Plc  expand across the globe. When he
succeeds Terry Leahy as chief executive officer next week, his
first task is to take back Britain.  The 50-year-old, who started working for the U.K.’s biggest
retailer as a stock boy at 14, must combat competitors’ faster
expansion and increased price cuts at a time of shrinking  consumer confidence . He also has to allay investor concern over
the departure of two senior executives this year.  While Tesco’s dominant U.K. position helped fund Clarke’s
expansion of the company into markets including China and  Turkey , its share of Britain’s 151-billion pound ($245 billion)
grocery market has hovered around 30 percent since 2006. It had
more than doubled in the first nine years of Leahy’s 14-year
reign as CEO. Tesco’s sales of non-food goods in the country
fell 1.5 percent on a same-store basis in the Christmas period.  “The U.K. business is the big struggle,” said William Hobbs, who helps manage 164 billion pounds in assets, including
Tesco shares, at Barclays Wealth in  London . “We’d really like
them to use the U.K. as an ongoing cash cow, to increase returns
and not lose any more ground there.”  Clarke needs to convince investors that the U.K. offers
growth potential outside of the grocery market, according to
James Anstead, an analyst at  Barclays Capital . The retailer is
extending its brand with plans for bank accounts and mortgages
under Tesco Bank, second-hand  car dealerships  and in-store
beauty parlors. Its clothing and non-food lines also need to be
widened and more premium lines added, Anstead said.  Asda Price Pledge  “Clarke needs a nuts-and-bolt review to improve the
products right down the line,” said Tim Green, an analyst at
Brewin Dolphin in London, where he helps manage more than 23
billion pounds, including Tesco shares. “It’s the core that
needs to be revisited, not just the types of products, but the
service on offer.”  The son of a Tesco store manager, Clarke also has to
contend with a step-up in strength by competitors.  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc .’s U.K. Asda chain, under new CEO Andy Clarke, last
month started a campaign promising to be 10 percent cheaper than
rivals or it will refund the difference.  J Sainsbury Plc , the
second-largest U.K. supermarket, and upscale grocery chain
Waitrose Ltd. have increased their market share by adding space,
non-food products and extending their own-brand ranges.  ‘Toughest Job’  Clarke’s “toughest job will be to convince investors that
there is still a good story in the U.K.,” Anstead wrote in a
report. “We expect that he will communicate a message of
relative calm -- while also reminding investors of the potential
for growth beyond core grocery.” Anstead has an “overweight”
recommendation on Tesco stock.  Revenue at U.K. stores open at least a year rose 0.6
percent, including value-added taxes and excluding gasoline, in
the six weeks ended Jan. 8, compared with Sainsbury’s 3.6
percent growth. The shares have fallen 4.9 percent over the past
12 months, while Sainsbury has gained 12 percent.  Clarke’s task hasn’t been helped by this month’s departure
of Laura Wade-Gery, who left to join Marks & Spencer Group Plc
weeks after being promoted to his executive board as commercial
director for clothing, electronics and general merchandise. That
followed the exit of Lance Batchelor, the head of Tesco’s mobile
and telecoms businesses, to head up Domino’s Pizza U.K.  Executive Departures  “Some will be concerned that this represents the tip of
the iceberg, with further fallout to come from the management
reshuffle that followed Sir  Terry Leahy ’s retirement,” said
Caroline Gulliver, an analyst at Execution Noble in London.
Clarke’s enhanced executive board and the new CEO positions
including Richard Brasher’s promotion to U.K. chief executive
“will go some way to prevent this,” she said.  Clarke’s efforts to make Tesco less reliant on the U.K.
haven’t been consistently successful. The U.S. Fresh & Easy
chain remains unprofitable more than three years after its
creation and the Japanese division, which it set up in 2003, is
also losing money. Tesco operates in 13 markets outside the U.K.
that account for about a third of its sales.  “He brings the experience of international, which is quite
important because that’s where all the growth is,” said Chris Hogbin, a food analyst at Bernstein Research, with a “buy”
rating on the stock. Sales outside the U.K. accounted for almost
31 percent of sales in fiscal 2010, up from 23 percent in 2007.  Soccer Rivalry  Under Leahy, who was knighted in 2002 after transforming an
also-ran supermarket chain to the U.K.’s largest retailer, Tesco
shares almost quadrupled. Leahy joined Tesco in 1979 and held
marketing positions before becoming commercial director of fresh
foods in 1986 and a member of the board in 1992.  Like Leahy, Clarke hails from Liverpool. He joined the
graduate trainee program in 1981 after completing a degree in
economics. The two men live on the same street. They diverge on
their sporting affiliations: While Leahy is a fan of the Everton
soccer team, Clarke follows city rival Liverpool.  The new CEO will make an “excellent leader,” said Charles Allen, a board member at Tesco from 1999 until 2010, and the
former executive chairman of recorded music at EMI Group Ltd.  “His knowledge of every aspect of the business and his
breadth of experience will enable him to hit the ground
running,” Allen said via e-mail. “He will do a great job for
all of Tesco’s stakeholders”  Brewin Dolphin’s Green has yet to be convinced.  Clarke has “got to get the U.K. right,” Green said. “The
U.K. will be key to unlocking Tesco’s valuation as a whole.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 