-- 
Chile Economy Grows 9.8%, Most in 15 Years, as Nation Rebuilds After Quake

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-05-18T16:33:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/chile-s-economy-expanded-9-8-in-first-quarter-in-line-with-expectations.html
Chile ’s economy expanded the most in
15 years in the first quarter, outpacing other major Latin
American economies as  consumer spending  jumped and manufacturing
recovered from the biggest earthquake in half a century.  The economy grew 9.8 percent from a year earlier, the
central bank wrote on its website today, matching the median
estimate of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  South America ’s fifth-largest economy is expanding faster
than its potential on surging domestic demand and increased
commodity exports,  Alfredo Coutino , Latin America director at
Moody’s Analytics, said in a research note dated today.  “Chile’s expansion is re-accelerating this year, thus
keeping the economy in the overheating territory,” he wrote.
“The increasing excess demand and the consequent rebound in
inflation and imports are genuine signs of an overheated
economy.”  Chile grew faster than its Latin American peers in the
first quarter, he said in an e-mailed response to questions
today. Chile would have expanded about 7 percent in the first
quarter without the low base of comparison in March, trailing
quarterly gains in Peru and  Argentina , he said.  Revised Figures  Growth has accelerated even as the government cuts planned
spending and the central bank raises lending costs, Finance
Minister Felipe Larrain told reporters today in Santiago.  The central bank has increased  interest rates  in 11 of its
past 12 monthly meetings from a record-low 0.5 percent to 5
percent. The government will cut planned spending this year by
$750 million -- the equivalent of 0.4 percent of GDP.  “The central bank statement from its last meeting opens
the door to a much more moderate future path for rate
increases,” Larrain said. “We’re happy that efforts the
government and the central bank are making are bearing fruit.”  The timing and size of future interest rate increases will
depend on domestic and external macroeconomic conditions, the
bank said in a May 12 statement accompanying its rate decision.  Chile’s economy grew 6.8 percent in January, 6.9 percent in
February and 15.4 percent in March from the same months of 2010,
the central bank said, revising previously reported figures. The
economy contracted 2 percent in March 2010 after a Feb. 27
earthquake caused an estimated $30 billion damage in the $164
billion economy.  Low Comparison  First-quarter economic growth doesn’t necessarily mean the
economy is growing faster than its potential because it
partially reflects a low base of comparison,  Alejandro Puente ,
an economist with Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, said.  “This elevated number for the first quarter shouldn’t
bring you to the conclusion that the economy could be heating
back up,” he said by phone today from Santiago. “That would
ignore the fact that the base of comparison is very relevant.”  Economic growth in the first quarter also reflects
increased domestic consumption and a recovery in manufacturing,
he said.  Industrial production grew 4 percent in January, 1.9
percent in February and 31 percent in March from the previous
year, the National Statistics Institute said in an April 28
report.  Retail sales expanded 16 percent in January, 17 percent in
February and 16 percent in March versus last year, the institute
said.  Current Account Surplus  Chile had a current account surplus of $722 million in the
first quarter, the central bank said today. The median estimate
of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for Chile to
report a current account surplus of $408 million.  Chile’s peso gained 0.6 percent to 471.20 per  U.S. dollar 
at 12:22 p.m. New York time from yesterday’s close of 473.97.  The economy expanded 5.2 percent last year, the fastest
pace in five years, and could expand 5.5 percent to 6.5 percent
in 2011, according to central bank forecasts.  Chile will post the third-fastest gain in South American
output this year at 5.9 percent, trailing Peru and Argentina,
the  International Monetary Fund  said in a May 3 report.  Chile’s economic growth is not creating excessive
inflationary pressures, which largely are coming from
international markets, the central bank’s chief economist, Luis Oscar Herrera, told a conference in Santiago on May 4.  “The evidence for overheating that can be deduced from the
recent evolution of inflation is weak,” he said.  Consumer prices grew 3.2 percent in April and 3.4 percent
in March from the previous year, the National Statistics
Institute said in a May 6 report.  The central bank, which targets annual inflation of 3
percent plus or minus 1 percentage point, estimates consumer
prices will grow 4.3 percent in December from last year. Policy
makers in their previous report, published on Dec. 20, estimated
annual inflation would reach 3.3 percent in December 2011.  Higher fuel prices account for 0.7 percentage point of the
increase in inflation estimates, the central bank said in its
latest monetary policy report. West Texas Intermediate crude
prices rose 14 percent in the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  