-- 
Europe’s Growing Diesel Deficit to Boost Storage, Woodmac Says

-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 
2011-02-25T10:54:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/europe-s-growing-diesel-deficit-to-boost-storage-woodmac-says.html
Europe’s growing diesel deficit and
rising gasoline surplus is leading to increased demand for
storage terminals, according to  Wood Mackenzie  Ltd.  “Growth prospects in European storage are being driven by
the increasing middle distillate deficit,” Ben Holt, vice
president of downstream consulting at Edinburgh-based Wood
Mackenzie, said in a Feb. 22 interview in London.  “The rising deficit is because of the dieselization of the
car pool in Europe, coupled with a switch to gasoil from  fuel
oil  in the bunkering sector in 2015,” he said, referring to the
switch to cleaner burning fuels in vehicles and ships.  Refiners such as Petroplus Holdings AG, Total SA, and Royal
Dutch Shell Plc plan to convert plants into storage terminals as
falling demand for products such as gasoline and diesel during
the worst recession since World War II led to lower profits from
processing crude. Distillates are a group of fuels including
diesel and jet.  “We expect oil storage activities in northwest  Europe  to
remain robust in the future as the region’s product imbalances
are set to widen and contango opportunities are likely to
continue in the short to medium term,” the researcher said in a
note last month. Contango is a market situation where prices for
cargoes delivered in the future are higher than immediate
shipments, allowing traders to profit from storage.  Essar Energy Plc, the U.K. unit of India’s Essar Oil Ltd.,
entered into an exclusivity agreement to buy Shell’s Stanlow
refinery, the company said in a Feb. 18 statement.  Vadinar Refinery  Stanlow “fits very well with  our strategy of providing
options for the export of high quality products from our Vadinar
refinery in  India ,” Naresh Nayyar, Essar Energy’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  There is more than 6.5 million cubic meters of storage in
the Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp area, Europe’s main oil-trading
hub, excluding capacity at refineries, Wood Mackenzie said. A
further 3.5 million will be added by companies such as Vitol
Group and Glencore International AG, the researcher said.  Projects under way and in the planning stages in the
Mediterranean will add about 4 million cubic meters in the next
few years, Holt said. Terminals in Malta, Spain and  France  are
being built with start-up scheduled for this year, the
researcher said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in  London  at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  