-- 
European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Drop Since July; Air France, Eni Slide

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-02-26T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-drop-since-july-air-france-eni-slide.html
European stocks posted the biggest
weekly retreat in seven months, led by declines in airlines and
automakers, as  Libya ’s violent uprising boosted tension in North
Africa and the Middle East and sent oil soaring.  Air France-KLM Group and Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Europe’s
largest carriers, fell more than 4 percent amid concern the cost
of fuel will rise. Oil companies Eni SpA and OMV AG dropped as
the revolts hindered their Libyan operations. Porsche SE sank 14
percent as the sports-car maker said its planned merger with
Volkswagen AG will probably be delayed into next year because of
German legal obstacles.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index slumped 2.4 percent
this past week, the biggest drop since July, as protests against
Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi threatened to escalate into civil
war. Demonstrations over the past two months have forced  Tunisia ’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali to flee the country and
unseated Egypt’s Hosni Mubarak.  “Investors were pretty scared,” said Arnaud Scarpaci, a  fund manager  at Agilis Gestion in Paris, which oversees about
$110 million. “This was the first alert to say that 2011 isn’t
going to be a smooth, tranquil river for stocks. The most
difficult thing now isn’t to oust Qaddafi, but to put in place a
democracy.”  Oil had the biggest weekly gain in two years on concern the
turmoil that has cut Libya’s output may spread to other parts of
the Middle East. Crude rallied above $100 a barrel in  New York 
for the first time since October 2008 on Feb. 23.  Lost Output  Oil pared some gains as Saudi Arabia and the  International
Energy Agency  moved to allay concern that Libya’s lost output
would lead to a supply shortfall. OPEC is prepared to meet any
shortage if needed, Saudi Arabia Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said.  Saudi Arabia  pumps 8.4 million barrels a day and says it has the
ability to bring on a further 4 million.  “Saudi Arabia will have to give more details next week on
how it can help compensate disruption of Libya’s oil supplies,”
said Markus Huber, head of German sales trading at ETX Capital
in  London . “If the situation calms down next week I remain
quite positive for equities as economic data and earnings are
still solid.”  European stocks trimmed their losses for the week yesterday
as U.S. consumer confidence rose more than forecast. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer sentiment
for February climbed to 77.5 from 74.2 the prior month. Other
releases showed jobless claims fell more than estimated last
week and orders for durable goods increased in January.  National Benchmarks  National benchmark indexes fell in all of  Europe ’s 18
western markets, except Norway and Denmark.  France ’s CAC 40
Index slid 2.1 percent, the U.K.’s FTSE 100 retreated 1.3
percent and Germany’s DAX tumbled 3.3 percent.  Technical problems forced a 6 1/2-hour delay to the start
of trading in  Italy  on Feb. 22 and a four-hour shutdown of the
London Stock Exchange yesterday.  Air France and Lufthansa lost 4.8 percent and 6.2 percent,
respectively. International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, the
parent company of British Airways, slumped 8.9 percent. Travel
and leisure shares posted the worst performance among 19
industry groups in the Stoxx 600, tumbling 5.2 percent.  Eni, the international oil company with the largest
presence in Libya, slid 4.4 percent and OMV, central Europe’s
biggest  oil company , lost 8.1 percent.  Eni, OMV  On Feb. 22 Eni shut down its Greenstream pipeline that
exports gas from Libya to Sicily. OMV Chief Executive Officer
Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer said he expects “production will come to
a standstill for a certain period of time for safety reasons”
in the North African nation.  Carmakers also retreated as oil rose. Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG and Daimler AG, the world’s biggest makers of luxury
cars, slumped 3.1 percent and 3 percent, respectively.
Volkswagen trimmed most of its losses after saying profit surged
sevenfold last year on demand in  China  and forecast growth will
accelerate this year. VW preferred shares closed the week 0.2
percent lower.  Porsche preferred stock sank 14 percent, the largest weekly
decline since May. An investigation into share-price
manipulation allegations will likely push the merger deal’s
completion into 2012, Porsche said. Stuttgart prosecutors said
their probe has “solidified” suspicions Porsche didn’t
adequately inform the market between 2007 and 2009 about its
intentions to take control of VW.  RWE Retreats  RWE AG plummeted 6.4 percent as  Germany ’s second-biggest
utility forecast profit will fall about 30 percent this year
because of a tax on its nuclear  power plants  and “stagnating”
power prices.  National Bank of Greece SA, the nation’s largest lender,
retreated 9 percent, and EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA, the second-
biggest, lost 11 percent.  Greece  may be unable to sustain
efforts to tackle its debt, forcing a restructuring of bond
payments, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
President Thomas Mirow said in an interview with Sueddeutsche
Zeitung.  Alpha Bank SA gained 2.1 percent after Greece’s third-
biggest bank rejected an unsolicited 2.8 billion-euro ($3.9
billion) takeover bid from National Bank of Greece after the
close of trading on Feb. 18, calling the offer inadequate.  CGGVeritas soared 9.2 percent as the world’s largest
seismic surveyor of oilfields said its fourth-quarter net loss
narrowed to $35 million from $411 million a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Julie Cruz  in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 