-- 
European Loan Growth Accelerated in January on Stronger Economy

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-02-25T09:08:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/european-loan-growth-accelerated-in-january-on-stronger-economy.html
Growth of loans to households and
companies in  Europe  accelerated in January as a stronger economy
boosted demand for credit.  Loans to the private sector rose 2.4 percent from a year
earlier after growing an annual 1.9 percent in December, the  European Central Bank  in Frankfurt said today. The rate of
growth in M3 money supply, which the ECB uses as a gauge of
future inflation, was 1.5 percent, down from 1.7 percent in
December.  The euro-area economy is showing signs of gathering
strength, with confidence in the outlook jumping to the highest
in more than three years this month and growth in the region’s
services and manufacturing industries accelerating. Increased
lending may add to the case for the ECB to raise  interest rates 
later this year.  “Rising loan growth will probably send off another tiny
alarm bell in Frankfurt,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at
ING Group in Brussels. “An interest rate hike in September
looks quite plausible now.”  ECB policy makers including President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
and Executive Board members Lorenzo Bini Smaghi and Juergen Stark have signaled they’re concerned that rising food and
energy prices could feed into wage demands and entrench faster
inflation. Stark said on Feb. 21 that the central bank is
prepared “to act decisively and immediately” if needed to
maintain price stability.  Faster Inflation  Inflation accelerated to 2.4 percent in January, breaching
the ECB’s 2 percent limit for a second month. The ECB’s main
lending rate is currently at a record low of 1 percent.  Euro-region banks expect loan demand to pick up in the
current quarter, the ECB said last month, citing a survey. At
the same time, banks expect a “very slight” tightening of
credit standards, it added.  In the three months through January, M3 increased 1.7
percent from the same period a year earlier after gaining an
annual 1.6 percent in the three months through December, the ECB
said. M3 is the broadest gauge of money supply and includes cash
in circulation, some forms of savings and money-market holdings.
The annual rate of M1  money-supply  growth fell to 3.2 percent
from 4.4 percent in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  