-- 
HP's Mphasis Tumbles After Analysts Raise Corporate Governance Concerns

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-02-25T11:27:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/hewlett-packard-s-mphasis-tumbles-after-earnings-miss-analysts-estimates.html
  Hewlett-Packard Co .’s  Mphasis Ltd .
fell the most on record in Mumbai, forcing the Indian  software
developer  to defend its move to give discounts to HP customers.  The shares fell 28 percent to 449.30 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. close in Mumbai, their biggest drop since the stock began
trading in 1994. Bangalore-based Mphasis, majority-owned by HP,
yesterday reported first-quarter net income of 2.27 billion
rupees ($50 million), missing analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg by 16 percent. The company posted revenue of 12.34
billion rupees.  The Indian software maker cut the rates it charges for its
largest shareholder’s clients as customers demanded lower prices
during the “traditionally weak” quarter, Chief Financial
Officer Ganesh Murthy said in Bangalore today. The discounts
reflect a “shocking collapse in governance,” CLSA Ltd.’s
analyst Nimish Joshi wrote in a note to clients today.  “Mphasis’s financial performance is now peripheral to the
central issue,” Joshi wrote. “Post this result, the harm done
to not only Mphasis, but also HP’s reputation is likely to be
long lasting.”  HP owns a 61 percent stake in Mphasis. HP bought control of
the company in 2008 to strengthen its effort to win customers
from International Business Machines Corp. by providing lower-
cost outsourcing services from  India .  “HP and Mphasis have rigorous policies in place to define
the rules of commercial engagement and avoid conflicts of
interest,” wrote Clare Gayner, a Singapore-based spokeswoman at
HP, in an e-mailed response.  Track Record  The decline in revenue was because the three months ending
Jan. 31 are a “traditionally weak” quarter as customers shut
down during the holiday season, Murthy told a press conference.
Mphasis cut some rates for Hewlett-Packard by 5 percent to 10
percent after some of HP’s customers demanded lower prices,
Murthy said.  “We have two types of relationships with HP -- one is as a
shareholder and one is as a customer,” said Mphasis Chief
Executive Officer Balu Ganesh Ayyar at the press conference.
“We hold them at arm’s length. We deal with HP exactly the same
way as we deal with any other customer. Our track record shows
that we’ve held our ground.”  HP completed the acquisition of another Indian outsourcing
company, Digital Globalsoft Ltd., in 2004. Price cuts Mphasis
has offered follow a pattern similar to those given by Digital
Globalsoft in 2003, before HP bought out the company’s minority
shareholders and took the company private, analysts said.  Minority Shareholders  “HP has been here before with its interests always taking
precedence over interests of minority shareholders,” CLSA’s
Joshi wrote.  The drop in revenue for the software-maker from the last
quarter “begs a question on the future direction of the
company,” JM Financial Institutional Securities Pvt., a local
brokerage, said in a note to clients. The brokerage downgraded
the company’s shares to “sell” from “hold.”  “We believe this will revive memories of Digital
Globalsoft in 2002 to 2003, when Digital faced severe pricing
pressure from HP and had raised investor concerns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  