-- 
Mexico Had 4th Quarter Current Account Gap of $3.6 Billion

-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 
2011-02-25T17:17:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/mexico-had-4th-quarter-current-account-gap-of-3-6-billion-1-.html
  Mexico  reported a current account
deficit of $3.6 billion in the fourth quarter, signaling policy
makers may become more concerned about a possible reversal of
capital inflows.  The current account gap last year was $5.7 billion, or 0.5
percent of gross domestic product, the central bank  said  today
on its Web site. The fourth-quarter deficit was greater than the
forecasts of economists, who expected a deficit of $1.81
billion, according to a Bloomberg survey.  The current account deficit in the final quarter of last
year was too large to be offset by foreign direct investment,
which was $2.8 billion, signaling Mexico depended on volatile
capital inflows to keep its external accounts balanced, said  Luis Flores , an economist at Ixe Grupo Financiero.  “This issue of a reversal of inflows will make noise in
the coming days,” said Flores, who is based in Mexico City.
“That’s why policy makers don’t want to act against the peso
and want to increase foreign reserves.”  Mexican policy makers haven’t followed their regional peers
in trying to stem currency gains with restrictions on capital
inflows. Investors poured money into emerging markets last year
as near-zero  interest rates  in the U.S. and  Europe  prompted them
to seek higher returns in  developing countries .  Foreign Reserves  Mexican central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said in a
Feb. 17 interview that policy makers had no “imminent” plan to
adjust the number of dollar options they auction monthly to help
boost foreign reserves.  Mexico’s peso had risen 1.8 percent this year, the biggest
increase of Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
currency rose 0.2 percent to 12.1287 at 12:15 p.m. New York
time.  Foreign direct investment is considered a more reliable
source of dollars to offset a current account deficit because it
represents long-term investment by companies in equipment or
personnel, while capital inflows are more unpredictable because
investors can sell securities on a moment’s notice, Flores said.  The flood of capital inflows led to a surplus in Mexico’s
capital account, which offset the current account deficit, the
central bank said in a statement  Mexico reported a capital account surplus of $36 billion
last year, including $17.7 billion in foreign direct investment
and $23.8 billion in foreign investment in securities, the bank
said.  Exports increased 30 percent from a year earlier, while
imports grew 29 percent, the central bank said.  Money transfers from Mexicans living abroad rose 0.1
percent in 2010 from a year earlier to $21.3 billion, the
central bank said.  Mexico’s foreign reserves rose by $22.8 billion in 2010,
compared with an increase of $5.4 billion in 2009, the bank
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jens Erik Gould in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  