-- 
Mexico’s PRI to Propose Cuts, Rebates to Widen Tax Base

-- B y   A d r i a n a   L o p e z   C a r a v e o   a n d   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 
2011-02-25T06:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/mexico-s-pri-to-propose-cuts-rebates-to-widen-tax-base.html
  Mexico ’s largest opposition party is
preparing to propose major changes to the nation’s tax laws,
including rebates on a lowered sales tax to consumers who pay
income taxes and an increase in the retirement age.  The  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI, aims to
lower the sales tax to 12 percent from 16 percent and charge a
new 3 percent tax that could be refunded, according to a
document obtained by Bloomberg. The document contains the main
points of an initiative the party plans to present in Congress
by March 15, according to Senator Fernando Castro, who helped
write the document.  Senator Francisco Labastida, a presidential candidate in
2000, was the main author of the document and confirmed its
authenticity.  The planned legislation aims to strengthen public finances
in a country that suffers from one of the lowest collection
rates in Latin America.  To receive the 3 percent refund on  sales tax , consumers
would have to prove they pay income taxes, the document says.
Consumers would have to buy goods and services from providers
that also pay taxes.  “The objective is to encourage formal businesses,”
Rogelio Rueda, a PRI senator and member of the chamber’s finance
committee, said in a Feb. 15 interview.  Mexican  government spending  is constricted by a tax
collection rate that is the  lowest  among the 34 member countries
of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
That low rate, combined with falling oil output and a recession,
led Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings to lower the country’s
credit rating in 2009 because of concern about the strength of
its public finances.  Higher  Retirement Age   The plan, which would go into effect in 2013 if approved in
Congress, would put levies on products that are currently
exempt, such as some food items. It would keep a basic basket of
food products tax exempt, the document says.  The proposal would also increase the age at which retired
Mexicans are eligible for social security benefits, freeing up
more government revenue. Mexicans can currently retire and start
receiving part of their pensions at age 60, according to the
social security institute’s  website . The document does not
specify what the new retirement age would be.  The PRI also aims to lower income taxes paid by businesses
to 25 percent from 30 percent and eliminate a special business
tax known as the IETU.  Mexico’s congress in 2009 passed legislation that increased
the sales tax to 16 percent from 15 percent, as well as a higher
income tax, a higher duty on cash deposits, and a new
telecommunications tax.  Low Tax Collection  The country’s tax collection was 17.5 percent of gross
domestic product in 2009, while the nation with the highest tax
burden,  Denmark , collected 48 percent of GDP, according to the
OECD.  While Mexico’s economy is the second-largest in Latin
America, its  tax revenue  as a percentage of GDP is only the
twelfth-highest in the region, below  Honduras ,  Nicaragua  and  El
Salvador , according to the PRI proposal.  The PRI wants to lessen the tax burden for  Petroleos
Mexicanos , the state-owned  oil company . The proposal would
eliminate the $6.5 per barrel deduction cap for exploration
investments, which would cut taxes paid by the company by 50
billion pesos ($4.1 billion).  Pemex Tax Relief  Pemex, as the Mexico City-based company is known, reported
a third-quarter net loss of 2.8 billion pesos, the third
quarterly loss for the company in the past year. The company
paid 158.3 billion pesos in taxes in the three-month period that
ended on Sept. 30.  The company is asking Mexico’s  Finance Ministry  to absorb
its pension liabilities and to cut taxes for some new oil
projects. Mexico’s Senate may approve a proposal to reduce taxes
for Pemex by March, Labastida said in a Nov. 12 interview.  Any fiscal initiative, while presented by the PRI in the
Senate, would have to be voted first in the  lower house of
Congress , according to Mexican law. The PRI has 238 seats of 500
in the lower house.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adriana Lopez Caraveo in Mexico City at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net ;
Jens Erik Gould in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  