-- 
Arsenal's Fabregas Joins Walcott on Sidelines for Carling Cup Soccer Final

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-02-25T16:44:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/fabregas-joins-walcott-on-sidelines-as-arsenal-seeks-carling-cup-final-win.html
Arsenal captain Cesc Fabregas will
miss this weekend’s Carling Cup soccer final because of a
hamstring injury, joining Theo Walcott on the sideline as the
Gunners seek their first trophy in six years.  The midfielder, who left Arsenal’s 1-0 Premier League win
over Stoke two days ago after 14 minutes, isn’t available to
face Birmingham at Wembley Stadium and is out for “one or two
games,” manager  Arsene Wenger  said.  “It could have been worse and the injury is a very small
one,” Wenger said at a news conference today. “But we have so
many targets in front of us, it is important that he is not out
for longer.”  Fabregas may be available for the return match in the
Champions League round of 16 at Barcelona on March 8. Arsenal
won the opening game 2-1 last week.  Walcott was ruled out of the Carling Cup final after
spraining his ankle against Stoke. The winger’s expected to be
sidelined two to three weeks, Wenger said.  “I would say today that it will be very unlikely he will
be fit for the second Barcelona game,” Wenger said. “I imagine
the worst so maybe I will be surprised in a positive way, but I
just give you the gut feeling at the moment that I have.”  Striker Robin  van Persie  will return from injury to captain
Arsenal against Birmingham, while defender  Laurent Koscielny  and
midfielder Abou Diaby are  expected to be available . Van Persie
sat out the Stoke game with a hamstring injury, Koscielny was
missing with a back problem and Diaby, who was suspended, has
been battling a calf injury.  Arsenal, which hasn’t won a trophy since capturing  England ’s F.A. Cup in 2005, is the 1-2 favorite to end that
drought by beating Birmingham, according to U.K. bookmaker
William Hill, which rates Birmingham the 11-2 outsider.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  