-- 
Fabregas to Beg Wenger for Carling Cup Final Chance, Sun Reports: Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-02-25T05:26:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/fabregas-to-beg-wenger-for-carling-cup-final-chance-sun-reports-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Fabregas Plea  Cesc Fabregas will beg Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  to let
him play in the Carling Cup final against Birmingham in two
days, the Sun  reported .  Wenger last night ruled his captain out of the match at
Wembley Stadium after Fabregas strained his hamstring in the 1-0
win over Stoke two days ago. Fabregas, who wants to help Arsenal
try to win its first trophy in six years, will meet Wenger today
before having a second scan on the injury, the Sun added.  Tevez Backtrack  Manchester City’s  Carlos Tevez  will play in Europe for at
least three years according to the player’s agent, Kia
Joorabchian, the Daily Mail  reported .  Joorabchian, who suggested earlier this week that Tevez may
return to Brazilian club Corinthians in the next two years, was
cited as telling ESPNsoccernet that the Argentine striker will
now remain in  Europe  for “for the next three years, minimum.”
Tevez has a contract with City until 2014, the Mail said.  Tottenham Eyes Turk  Tottenham’s  Harry Redknapp  is among several managers
interested in Fenerbahce’s 26-year-old right-back Gokhan Gonul,
the Daily Mirror  reported .  Gonul, who’s played 20 times for Turkey, will become a free
agent in the offseason, prompting interest from Spurs, Barcelona
and Bayern Munich, the newspaper said.  Bruce Backs Break  Sunderland manager  Steve Bruce  supported calls from
Manchester United’s  Alex Ferguson  for a winter break in English
soccer, the  Independent reported . Ferguson has suggested
following the German model, where teams have a January break
before resuming domestic cup competition, the newspaper added.  “We have to try to arrest something,” the Independent
cited Bruce as saying. “Maybe try to restructure things. We are
the only nation who doesn’t do it.”  Adam’s Ailment  Blackpool captain  Charlie Adam  has seen a specialist to
investigate a mystery abdominal injury that flares up after each
match, the Mirror  reported .  “Charlie went to see a specialist about something that’s
happening to him,” the newspaper cited Blackpool manager Ian
Holloway as saying. “I don’t want to talk about that. We want
to sort it out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  