-- 
Family Dollar Takeover Doomed With Shares Below Bid: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-02-25T02:55:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/family-dollar-takeover-doomed-to-fail-with-stock-below-peltz-bid-real-m-a.html
  Family Dollar Stores Inc ., which
billionaire investor  Nelson Peltz  offered to buy for $7.7
billion, is the most likely to fail among 2011 deals, according
to traders who profit from mergers and acquisitions.  The stock is now $9.96 below the proposed bid of as much as
$60 a share from Peltz’s Trian Fund Management LP, representing
a premium of 20 percent if the deal were to close, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the widest price gap of any
pending takeover announced this year, indicating merger
arbitragers are projecting that Family Dollar won’t be purchased
at that price.  Peltz, an activist investor who rarely buys entire
companies, offered $55 to $60 a share last week for the second-
largest U.S. dollar chain -- a bid that doesn’t have financing
and would be the biggest acquisition of a U.S. retailer in six
years. While Peltz likely won’t end up buying Family Dollar, his
offer for the Matthews, North Carolina-based company may spur
interest from larger rival  Dollar General Corp . and others,
according to Mark Miller, an analyst at William Blair & Co.  “I really question whether he intends on buying the company
or if he was simply trying to put the company in play, hoping a
more credible bidder would come in,” said Anthony Chukumba, a
New York-based analyst at BB&T Capital Markets who rates the
shares “hold.” “People are starting to do the work and ask
themselves, ‘Is this deal really going to happen?’”  Peltz, 68, offered to acquire Family Dollar at as much as a
39 percent premium to the company’s 20-day average before the
bid was made public in a U.S. Securities and Exchange  filing  on
Feb. 15. Peltz, who invited Chief Executive Officer Howard Levine to join him, said the offer is conditioned upon obtaining
financing, board and shareholder approval and due diligence.  Shares Jumped  The next day the shares jumped 21 percent, the most since
at least 1980, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Since then the stock has declined every day, widening the
gap with Peltz’s offer and signaling arbitrage traders don’t
think the deal will close at that price. Of the more than 100
pending deals announced globally this year, Family Dollar was
trading at the biggest discount to its takeover price when U.S.
markets closed yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “While the stock popped that day, the market’s saying
there’s a lot of uncertainty left to this,” said  Brian Sozzi ,
an analyst with Wall Street Strategies Inc. in  New York . “It’s
saying we don’t know if Peltz can get the financing, we don’t
know his motive, we don’t know all of the components of this
deal, and we don’t know if Family Dollar would rather boost
shareholder returns in other ways.”  Reviewing the Proposal  Family Dollar said on Feb. 15 that it’s reviewing the
proposal with financial advisor  Morgan Stanley  in New York.  CEO Levine, 52, who owned 7.5 percent of the stock as of
last month, wasn’t available for an interview, said Josh Braverman, a spokesman for Family Dollar. Peltz declined to
comment, according to Carrie Bloom, a spokeswoman for  New York- 
based Trian.  Family Dollar, started as a single store in  1959  by
Levine’s father Leon, won shoppers from larger rivals such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc . in Bentonville,  Arkansas , adding packaged
foods and other consumables during the recession. The company
also started accepting  food stamps  in 2008.  With more than 6,800 stores in 44 states, the retailer is
aiming for time-pinched consumers who grab a few items, such as
canned soup and toothpaste, during the week rather than make
trips to bigger discount and drug stores.  Boost Sales Growth  Trian is the largest outside investor in Family Dollar with
about 7.9 percent of the stock outstanding as of Feb. 15, the
filing said. The hedge fund run by Peltz, Peter May and Edward Garden first disclosed a stake in the discount retailer in July
and urged it to boost sales growth and share buybacks.  Peltz is known for buying stakes in food companies, then
agitating for changes to increase the valuation. Trian owns
about 18 percent of Atlanta-based Wendy’s/Arby’s Group Inc.,
which is exploring a spinoff of the Arby’s brand after Peltz
merged the two in 2008. He sold his $132 million stake in
Northfield, Illinois-based  Kraft Foods Inc ., the second-largest
food maker, in August after agreeing not to seek control.  He also played a role in Cadbury Plc’s 2008 spinoff of Dr
Pepper Snapple Group and pressed for changes at Pittsburgh-based
H.J. Heinz Co., the world’s biggest ketchup maker. Peltz also
bought the Snapple beverage brand from Quaker Oats Co. for $300
million in 1997 and later sold it to Cadbury for $1.5 billion.  ‘Rarely Actually Buys’  “If you look at his history, he rarely actually buys
entire companies,” BB&T’s Chukumba said. “Even the companies
that he has bought were fractions of the size of a deal we’re
talking about,” he said, referring to Family Dollar.  At $7.7 billion including net debt, the Family Dollar deal
would be the largest U.S. retail takeover since 2005, when
Federated Department Stores Inc., now  Macy’s Inc ., paid $17.8
billion for May Department Stores Co., data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Peltz’s bid values Family Dollar at as much as 10 times its
$761.5 million in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization in the last 12 months. That’s higher than the
median multiple of 8.1 times Ebitda for acquisitions of
retailers greater than $1 billion announced in the last year.  Family Dollar would be a big transaction for Peltz,
considering how much financing he’d have to raise, said Larry Carroll, who oversees $1.4 billion, including Family Dollar
shares, as president and CEO of Carroll Financial Associates
Inc. in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  ‘Walking Away’  “He’d be very happy getting a good return on his
investment and walking away without taking over the company,”
said Carroll. He sold 12,000 Family Dollar shares for a customer
Feb. 23 after advising to sell if the stock slipped below $51 or
topped $55. “It’s hard to know what to do with the stock.”  Family Dollar closed yesterday at $50.04, 16 percent higher
than its 20-day average before the Trian bid, giving it a market
value of $6.3 billion. The shares fell 12 percent this year
through Feb. 15, compared with a 3 percent gain for retailers in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The company, which doubled its net income in the past
decade, lowered its profit forecast in January because of higher
costs to renovate and open stores. Family Dollar trades at 18.4
times profit, compared with the 16.8 times average for U.S.
discount retailers, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Dollar
General has a price-to-earnings ratio of 16.6.  Dollar General, KKR  If the Peltz deal doesn’t go through, the company needs to
find another buyer or announce a share repurchase to prevent the
stock from declining, said Wall Street Strategies’ Sozzi. Dollar
General and its New York-based owner KKR & Co. shouldn’t be
ruled out as potential buyers, he said.  The odds of another bidder emerging have increased and are
less than 50 percent, William Blair’s Miller said in a Feb. 16
research note.  Dollar General, based in Goodlettsville,  Tennessee , may
surface with a bid of $72 to $78 a share that would be accretive
to its shareholders, Aram Rubinson, a New York-based analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc., said in a Feb. 16 research note. Such a
combination may face regulatory hurdles, he said.  Tawn Earnest, a spokeswoman for Dollar General, declined to
comment, as did  Kristi Huller , a spokeswoman for KKR.  KKR paid $7.3 billion including net debt, or 16 times
Ebitda, in a 2007 leveraged buyout of Dollar General. The
retailer still has $3.3 billion in borrowings for a debt-to-
Ebitda ratio of 2.35, higher than 82 percent of U.S. retailers
with comparable market values, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  If Dollar General were to borrow as much as $7 billion to
buy Family Dollar, its  credit rating  may drop to one level below
investment grade, according to Bloomberg’s Company Credit
Ratings, which analyze borrowers based on indebtedness, stock
volatility, profitability and other financial ratios. The
company is currently rated B3, two levels above junk.  ‘Simply Ludicrous’  “The notion that Dollar General and KKR would come in and
buy Family Dollar is simply ludicrous,” BB&T’s Chukumba said in
an interview.  Elsewhere in mergers and acquisitions, Quest Diagnostics
Inc. agreed to buy a laboratory business from Waltham,
Massachusetts-based  Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc . for $740
million in cash as it expands into testing for neurological
disorders including  Alzheimer’s disease .  Athena Diagnostics has more than 350 tests to confirm or
rule out physicians’ diagnoses of Alzheimer’s and neuromuscular
and developmental disorders, Madison, New Jersey-based Quest
said yesterday in a statement.  There have been 3,535 deals announced globally this year,
totaling $337.2 billion, a 32 percent increase from the $254.8
billion in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;  Chris Burritt  in Greensboro, North Carolina, at   cburritt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 