-- 
Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac Seek $3.1 Billion Amid Improved Earnings

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-02-25T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/fannie-mae-freddie-mac-seek-3-1-billion-amid-improved-earnings.html
Freddie Mac and  Fannie Mae , the
mortgage-finance companies operating under U.S. conservatorship,
requested another $3.1 billion in Treasury Department aid as
they reported quarterly earnings reflecting improving health.  Fannie Mae reported net income of $73 million for the
three-month period that ended Dec. 31, the Washington-based
company’s first positive results in three years. McLean,
Virginia-based Freddie Mac’s quarterly loss narrowed to $113
million from $6.5 billion in the same period a year earlier.  Both companies reported net-worth deficits attributable
largely to the quarterly dividend payments they make to the
Treasury Department, which has owned more than 79 percent of
both companies since they were seized and placed under U.S.
conservatorship during the credit crisis in 2008.  The government-sponsored enterprises, which own or
guarantee more than half of U.S. mortgages, have been sustained
by $154 billion in Treasury funds since the takeover. More than
$20 billion of that money has been paid back to taxpayers in the
form of a 10 percent dividend on the shares owned by Treasury.  The Treasury yesterday released an accounting showing that
the companies’ cost to taxpayers is declining as their dividend
payments grow. The two companies paid a combined $3.8 billion in
the fourth quarter, reducing the net cost to taxpayers to $133.7
billion, The Treasury said.    Freddie Mac  reported a net-worth deficit of $401 million
in its fourth-quarter filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, attributing it partly to the $1.6 billion dividend
payment owed to Treasury. The company requested $500 million to
eliminate that deficit.  Fannie Mae sought $2.6 billion from Treasury to help
eliminate its $2.5 billion net-worth deficit. Like smaller rival
Freddie Mac, the firm cited the dividend obligation -- $2.2
billion in Fannie Mae’s case -- as part of the reason for the
shortfall.  A 2012 budget estimates predicted that taxpayer aid to
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could total $224 billion by the end
of 2012, of which $55 billion will be returned in dividends.    Washington  policy makers are working on a plan to wind down
the companies and rebuild the U.S. housing system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 