-- 
Nevada Slips to Bust From Boom With Highest Jobless Ranking

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   P e t e r   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-02-25T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/fastest-growing-nevada-now-booms-with-unemployment-stranded-homeowners.html
Nevada went to bust from boom in a
decade as  population growth , once the fastest in the U.S.,
slowed to almost zero while homeowners struggled with plunging
values and the nation's highest unemployment rate.  After adding people at the most rapid pace for 18 years,
Nevada slipped in 2004 relative to neighboring  Arizona . Nevada’s
population increased 35.1 percent to 2,700,551 in 2010 from
2000, U.S. Census Bureau data  show , although the growth rate
slumped to about 1 percent between 2008 and 2009.  Residents caught in the downturn are likely to stay put,
said Robert E. Lang, a sociologist and demographer at the  University of Nevada , Las Vegas. That’s because the state tops
national rankings besides unemployment: It has the highest
negative home equity and percentage of homes in foreclosure.
Lenders in  Nevada  can garnish wages if a homeowner defaults.  “The idea of a mass exodus is not true,” Lang said.
“People can’t leave because they would have to bring a check to
the closing, or declare bankruptcy.”  Kevin M. O’Donnell was one who left, though not with his
family. He said he won’t walk away from the 3,000-square-foot
home he and his wife bought in 2006 in Henderson, a suburb of
Las Vegas, for $575,000. In a typical Nevada story, he was laid
off, the value of the house dropped by half and family income
has fallen even more.  ‘Stagnation’ Ahead  “I committed to paying a mortgage,” said O’Donnell, a 48-
year-old  New Jersey  native. “I don’t feel it’s moral or right
to just turn around to the bank and say, ‘Hey, you’re in this
with me so I’m not going to pay this loan.’”  A civil engineer specializing in land development who
migrated to Nevada for a job with a firm working on residential,
mix-used and municipal projects, O’Donnell moved to Great Falls,  Montana , for work. He left behind his wife, who lost her job at
an architecture firm when  Boyd Gaming Corp . mothballed its
Echelon casino resort project, and 10-year-old daughter.  The Nevada slowdown after years of rapid growth forced cuts
to public school and university budgets and left the government
with a projected shortfall of more than $2 billion over the next
two years. Nothing on the horizon suggests a rebound, said
Thomas Cargill, an economics professor at the University of
Nevada, Reno.  “It is going to be a decade of reduced economic and
financial development, if not stagnation,” Cargill said.  Hispanics Gain  Nevada’s growth between 2000 and 2010 was above the
 national  average of 9.7 percent and enough to gain a fourth U.S.
House member in 2012. Clark County, which includes  Las Vegas  and
most of its suburbs, grew 41.8 percent to 1,951,269 in 2010 from
1,375,765 in 2000, according to the census.  All major racial and ethnic groups made gains in the
decade, census data released yesterday show. Hispanics increased
81.9 percent to account for 26.5 percent of the total in 2010.
Whites, who retained a majority statewide at 54.1 percent, are
in the minority in Las Vegas, accounting for 47.9 percent,
according to the data. The city is now 31.5 percent Hispanic,
10.1 percent black and 4.7 percent Asian.  The number of Hispanic children under 4 equals non-Hispanic
whites of the same age, marking the first time Latinos have
caught up to whites in any age group, said Jeff Hardcastle, the
state demographer.  Casino Spending  Most of the recent population growth can attributed to
births, particularly among Hispanics, not migration, he said.
That shows why Nevada will be majority Latino in the next few
years, according to Otto Merida, president and chief executive
of the  Latin Chamber of Commerce  in Las Vegas.  “All of their kids are going to have babies,” he said.  Nevada’s growth spurt was propelled by a surge in
construction as revenue for casinos climbed and Las Vegas Strip
gambling set records. Unemployment reached a 10-year low in
April 2000, at 3.8 percent. It’s now an adjusted 14.5 percent.    MGM Resorts International ,  Las Vegas Sands Corp . and  Wynn
Resorts Ltd ., the three biggest publicly traded Las Vegas-based
casino owners, have said the worst has passed. While the Strip
is recovering from an unprecedented two-year slump, the other
pillar of the economy is flattened.  “The real recovery problem is going to be the  construction
industry ,” said Glen Atkinson, an emeritus professor of
economics at the University of Nevada, Reno. “It was one of the
major industries in Nevada with pretty high wages. It’s hard to
see how it’s going to turn around.”  ‘Distressed Properties’  Thousands of roofers, carpet layers, drywall installers,
road pavers and other workers poured into the state in the early
2000s as stretches of desert were transformed into subdivisions,
apartment complexes and malls. Many are empty now.  Driving through Henderson, the state’s second-largest city,
Realtor Terry Nacion, who migrated from  Hawaii  in 2003, said she
remembered when there was waiting list of 1,500 for 300 condo
units that were priced at $99,000 and that went for as much as
$225,000. “Now they are worth $50,000 to $60,000,” she said.  Nacion said the bottom hasn’t hit because of shadow
inventory, foreclosed homes that banks haven’t placed on the
market. “Distressed properties are not a niche -- they are the
market,” she said.  Las Vegas led the nation in homes with negative equity, at
81.5 percent of all properties with mortgages, Zillow Inc.
estimated in a fourth quarter report. Nevada had the highest
proportion of distressed sales, with 57 percent of residential
transactions involving homes seized by banks or at risk of
foreclosure, according to RealtyTrac Inc.    Job Creation   Vacant houses in Clark County climbed to 14.9 percent in
2009 from 8.5 percent in 2000, according to the  U.S. Census .  Construction was Nevada’s biggest industry by employment,
with about 160,000 jobs in 2007, said Lang, the UNLV
demographer. He estimated it now employs about 55,000 to 60,000.  Gaming -- the largest single component of Nevada’s economy
-- may create jobs in the next few years, said Stephen Brown,
director of the  Center for Business and Economic Research  at the
University of Nevada, Las Vegas.  “Gaming, tourism and the hospitality industry are showing
signs of a recovery,” Brown said.  Because gambling is dependent on the discretionary income
of non-Nevadans, the state’s fortunes will rise and fall with
those of high rollers from  New York  to Dubai, Cargill said.  “Nevada is sort of like a cork in a rough sea,” Cargill
said. “It really has no control over what goes on around it.”  Mineral Deposits  Mining has been a bright spot, Atkinson said. Dubbed the
Silver State for its deposits, Nevada produced more than any
state except  Alaska  in 2010,  according to  the  U.S. Geological
Survey . The industry employs an estimated 11,600 people, the
 Nevada Mining Association  said.  Business and political leaders in Nevada have touted the
state as a center for renewable-energy development, a potential
that has so far gone unrealized, Atkinson said.  O’Donnell, the civil engineer, rents a basement apartment.
His wife and daughter may eventually join him in Montana. They
would rent out their Henderson house, into which they sank the
profit from the home they sold in New Jersey.  “No one really knew or predicted how bad it was going to
become,” he said. His mother “doesn’t remember it being nearly
that bad in  Pennsylvania  during the Great Depression.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Brennan in  Los Angeles  at 
 pbrennan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  