-- 
Fed Runs Scared With Boost to Bank Dividends: Anat R. Admati

-- B y   A n a t   R .   A d m a t i
-- 
2011-02-25T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/fed-runs-scared-with-boost-to-bank-dividends-commentary-by-anat-r-admati.html
People become scared when ex-
regulators or bankers warn that growth might be hurt or that the
recovery would be slowed if we fail to do something. The  Federal
Reserve  seems scared, too, or maybe captured, since it is about
to allow increased dividends from banks.  The Fed should know better. Allowing high payouts to
shareholders raises financial institutions’ leverage and that is
bad for the economy.  One of those warning that growth will suffer is William Isaac, head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. from 1981 to
1985 and now chairman of Fifth Third Bancorp. Writing in the
Financial Times  on Feb. 9 , he said that unless banks increase
dividends they will have a harder time raising equity in the
future, thus hurting the economy. This is similar to the flawed
assertions made by bankers who are lobbying against increased
capital requirements.  We have seen self-serving statements like this before. In
1994, the  Financial Accounting Standards Board  wanted executive  stock options  to be expensed to reflect their actual cost.
Industry opponents threatened that doing so would prevent
entrepreneurial firms from obtaining financing, impede growth
and reduce U.S. competitiveness.  Massive lobbying forced the board to back off. A decade
later, after WorldCom Inc., Enron Corp. and other corporate
scandals, the political atmosphere was different, and the FASB
finally changed the rules. Since 2006, all companies must treat
executive options as an expense. And the doom and gloom we were
promised? There is no evidence that expensing options had any
negative economic consequences.  ‘Rainy Day’  Confusing language often obscures the discussion of capital
regulation and makes it more difficult to evaluate such threats.
Banks often are said to “ hold in reserve ” or “set aside”
capital; capital is described as a “rainy day” fund, and we
are told “a dollar in capital is a dollar not put into the
economy.” These descriptions portray capital as a pile of money
sitting idle and not being used productively. This is nonsense.  Capital is simply equity, the value of shareholders’
ownership claims in banks; and it represents a way for banks to
fund their investments without undertaking debt commitments that
they might not be able to meet and which add to systemic risk.
Bankers are fiercely resisting the suggestion that they use more
equity and less debt in funding, even though this would reduce
their dangerous degree of leverage.  Severe Consequences  Like homeowners who took a mortgage with little down
payments, when banks are highly leveraged, their equity can be
easily wiped out by small declines in asset values. If 95
percent of a bank’s assets are funded with debt, even a 3
percent decline in the asset value raises concerns about
solvency and can lead to disruption, the need to “deleverage”
by liquidating inefficiently, and possible contagion through the
interconnected system. As we have seen, this can have severe
consequences for the economy.  While equity is used extensively to fund productive
business, bankers hate to use it. With more equity, banks have
to “own” not only the upside but also more of the downside of
the risks they take. They have to provide a cushion at their own
expense to reduce the risk of default, rather than rely on
insurers and eventually taxpayers to protect them and their
creditors if things don’t work out.  Fixation with return on equity also contributes to bankers’
love of leverage because higher leverage mechanically increases
ROE, whether or not true value is generated. This is because
higher leverage increases the risk of equity, and thus its
required return.  Focus on ROE  is also a reason bankers find
hybrid securities, such as debt that converts to equity under
some conditions, more attractive than equity.  Distorted Decisions  Isaac is right to point out that the structure of current
capital requirements distorts banks’ decisions. The structure,
which is focused on the ratio of equity to so-called risk-
weighted assets, might induce banks to choose investments in
securities over lending, because securities with high credit
ratings require less capital and thus allow more debt funding.  These failures of the system of risk weights, however, have
nothing to do with the overall level of capital. Allowing banks
to pay dividends and maintain high leverage isn’t the solution
to this problem. Instead, better ways to monitor the true
leverage and risk of financial institutions should be found.  Isaac says he favors high  capital requirements , but he says
that paying dividends now is important for banks’ ability to
raise equity later. As prominent academics explained in a  letter 
responding to his column, his arguments for allowing dividends
are weak.  False Hopes  The muddled debate on capital regulation has left us with
only minor tweaks to flawed regulations, even after banks’
catastrophic failure in the crisis and the lasting consequences
for the economy. The proposed solutions that regulators in the
U.S. are focused on, such as resolution mechanisms, bail-ins,
contingent capital and living wills, are based on false hopes.
They can’t be relied on to prevent a crisis. Increasing equity
funding is simpler and better than these pie-in-the-sky ideas.  Until they build up much greater capital, banks should
retain their earnings rather than make payouts to equity. Bank
boards, helped by regulators, should make sure that “excess
capital” isn’t wasted or cause banks -- as JPMorgan Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said -- to do “ stupid things .”
And empty, self-interested threats shouldn’t win another round
of implicit subsidies if we are to prevent another crisis.  (Anat R. Admati is a professor of finance and economics at  Stanford University  and the coauthor of “Fallacies, Irrelevant
Facts and Myths in the Discussion of Capital Regulation: Why
Bank Equity Is Not Expensive.” The opinions expressed are her
own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Anat R. Admati at  admati_anat@gsb.stanford.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  