-- 
Ferry With Seasick U.S. Evacuees From Libya Arrives in Malta

-- B y   K a r l   S t a g n o   N a v a r r a   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-02-25T23:18:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/ferry-with-seasick-u-s-citizens-embassy-workers-reaches-malta-from-libya.html
A chartered ferry carrying mostly
U.S. citizens and embassy staff from Libya arrived at the island
of  Malta  today, where many were being rushed into treatment for
dehydration and seasickness.  The ship had been delayed leaving Tripoli for two days by
weather before making the crossing in nine hours in rough seas.
There were 338 passengers on board, including 183 Americans,
State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  told reporters at a
briefing in  Washington .  A U.S.-chartered airplane carrying 41 passengers, including
32 Americans, also left Libya today for Istanbul, Crowley said.
The State Department has suspended operations at its embassy in
Tripoli, he said.  The violence in Libya “got bad pretty fast,” David
Peterson, a  Cisco Systems Inc . employee from  Newport Beach ,  California , said in Malta after arriving on the ferry. “We
heard regular gunfire, especially at night.”  Peterson said the crossing was “nine hours of pretty rough
seas. Many were sick, but we are finally safe and sound.”  Paramedics went aboard the ship after its arrival and
ambulances were seen taking passengers away. Others were being
helped by U.S. embassy staff from the island nation.  Fellow passenger Richard Wilmond, an engineer from the
U.K., said “Things got pretty crazy down there. Was eager to
get out. Don’t know how it’s going to end. You can feel the
tension in the air.”  Heavy Gunfire  Hisham Esaadi, a Libyan-American from Dallas who works for  Oracle Corp ., said he heard heavy gunfire in Tripoli before he
escaped to the ferry.  “The evacuation to Malta was quite an ordeal, two days on
the ship before we left,” Esaadi said. “Then the trip today
was quite rough and children were scared.”  Police in Malta closed the main highway to other traffic to
speed the flow of emergency vehicles.  The ferry had been scheduled to leave Libya on Wednesday.
U.S. officials delayed the voyage because of waves as high as 18
feet that raised safety concerns, said Undersecretary of State
for Management Patrick Kennedy at the State Department.  ‘Sufficiently Chaotic’  The State Department opted for a ferry evacuation earlier
this week because the Tripoli airport “was becoming
sufficiently chaotic,” Kennedy said.  Crowley said the U.S. is still considering “a range of
options” to respond to the Qaddafi regime, including the use of
military force.  “The military is a full participant in the policy process
that is going on,” he said. “We have not ruled out any
option.”  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  is scheduled to fly to
Geneva on Feb. 27 to consult with foreign ministers at the
United Nations Human Rights Council about Libya. The council
today recommended suspending Libya and investigating alleged
human-rights violations. The UN General Assembly might vote on
that matter next week in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Stagno Navarra in Malta at 
 ksnavarra@bloomberg.net 
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Fireman at 
 kfireman1@bloomberg.net  