-- 
Florida's Scott Defends Rejection of Rail Funds as LaHood Cries `Baloney'

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-02-25T16:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/florida-s-scott-defends-refusal-of-high-speed-rail-money-criticizes-obama.html
Florida Governor  Rick Scott ,
defending his rejection of $2.4 billion from the Obama
administration for a high-speed rail project, said the program
would have been a bad deal for taxpayers.  Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood rejected Scott’s
criticism as “baloney.”  Scott, facing objections from Democrats and fellow
Republicans in his state for nixing the planned Tampa-to-Orlando
rail line this month, said such projects historically cost more
to build than budgeted and lose money once in operation.  “I don’t want our taxpayers to fund that,” Scott said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend. He said he didn’t need to review
bids from private businesses that said they would cover any
potential overruns.  “It was never going to happen,” Scott said, adding that
the state would have had to repay the $2.4 billion if the
program failed.  LaHood, in an interview at the Bloomberg News Washington
bureau, said of Scott, “He doesn’t know what he’s talking
about.”  “I don’t know of anybody else except for the governor who
thinks that this would be a bad deal,” LaHood, a Republican and
former member of Congress from  Illinois , said later on Bloomberg
Television. The project “would have put an enormous number of
Floridians to work. It would have helped people that are
unemployed. It would have helped the economy. So he’s the lone
ranger on this.”  ‘What’s Changed?’  Scott, 58, in Washington for a weekend meeting of the  National Governors Association , criticized President Barack Obama’s performance, saying he hasn’t shifted toward the center
since the November elections cost Democrats control of the House
and shrank their Senate majority.  “What’s changed?” Scott said. “We still have
ridiculously high taxes. We’re walking into a $1.6 trillion
deficit.”  “He should be cutting corporate taxes,” the governor
said. “He needs to reduce -- dramatically reduce -- spending.”  Scott, elected last fall with Tea Party support, referred
to the high-speed rail project on his Twitter page as
“ObamaRail” and “ObamaTrain,” echoing the “Obamacare”
nickname opponents have given to the health-care overhaul
enacted last year.  The administration is trying to dictate “basically how we
run our state,” Scott said in the Bloomberg bureau interview.
He also said  Florida  “can’t afford Obamacare.”  Scott also took Republican governors’ side in a widening
dispute with public employees over curbing their unionization
rights and benefits during a budget crunch.  Public Employee Pensions  He said Florida would be better off if public employees
couldn’t form unions and that it’s unfair to taxpayers that
state workers don’t contribute to their pensions.  While Florida’s constitution grants state workers the right
to unionize and bargain for workplace rights, Scott said, “It’d
be great to be able to change it.”  “Our state workers don’t pay for anything into their  pension plan . And we can’t afford that -- it’s not fair to
taxpayers,” Scott said. “If you didn’t have collective
bargaining, would it be better for the state? Absolutely.”  Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker  and Ohio Governor John Kasich, Republicans who have sought to limit state workers’
union organizing rights, are “absolutely doing the right
thing,” Scott said.  Scott is the third Republican governor to reject funding
for high-speed rail, one of Obama’s top priorities. Walker and
Kasich rejected funds from $8 billion in high-speed rail grants
in the 2009 economic stimulus plan.  Scott’s announcement Feb. 16 that he was refusing the money
canceled the first new project in the $53 billion high-speed
rail plan Obama presented in his 2012 budget two days earlier.  In the interview today, Scott said an existing high-speed
rail line between Miami and  West Palm Beach  costs $65 million a
year to operate and that fares cover only $10 million.
Construction cost overruns on the proposed Tampa-Orlando line
might have been $3 billion, he said.  LaHood said of Scott’s criticism: ’’I don’t know of another
person in Florida that agrees with that. I don’t know of another
economist, another person that’s looked at the plans in Florida.
A lot of smart people have put these plans together. There would
have been no financial liability or responsibility to the
taxpayers of Florida.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  