-- 
Freddie Mac Says Executive Bisenius Under Investigation by SEC

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-02-25T01:25:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/freddie-mac-says-executive-bisenius-under-investigation-by-sec.html
A  Freddie Mac  executive may be the
target of a civil action by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission over possible violations of  securities law , the
mortgage-finance company announced.  Donald J. Bisenius, executive vice president for single-
family credit guarantee, informed the company that he received a
so-called Wells notice on Feb. 10 from the regulator, McLean,
Virginia-based Freddie Mac said today in a filing. The SEC said
Bisenius could be the subject of a civil enforcement action.  Freddie Mac was seized by the government in 2008 as
mounting losses on single-family mortgages pushed the company to
the brink of insolvency. It and its larger rival,  Fannie Mae ,
have survived on the promise of unlimited government aid,
drawing almost $154 billion so far. Accounting irregularities at
the companies led to $11 billion worth of restatements in 2007.  Bisenius, who joined the company in 1992 and has testified
before Congress on the integrity of mortgage origination and
securitization, oversees a $1.8 trillion segment of Freddie
Mac’s business and reports to Chief Executive Officer Charles “Ed” Haldeman Jr., according to the company’s website.  Freddie Mac said in its filing that Bisenius plans to
respond in writing to the SEC, to argue against any action.
Michael Cosgrove, a spokesman for Freddie Mac, declined to
comment. Bisenius didn’t immediately respond to a telephone
message.  In 2008, the company was informed that the U.S. Attorney’s
Office for the Eastern District of  Virginia  was investigating
“accounting, disclosure, and corporate governance matters,”
according to the filing. The SEC informed the company that it
was under investigation for possible securities violations, and
employees were interviewed.  Anthony “Buddy” Piszel, Freddie Mac’s former chief
financial officer, also revealed this month that he had received
a Wells notice from the SEC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 