-- 
GE’s Immelt Says U.S. Jobs Panel Wants ‘Measurable Results’

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-02-25T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/ge-s-immelt-says-jobs-panel-should-produce-measurable-results-.html
  General Electric Co . Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said the White House jobs and
competitiveness panel that he heads will focus on measurable
results and meet with President Barack Obama every 90 days.  The group will consider topics from  energy efficiency  to
creating more engineers, Immelt said in a speech to the Calgary
Chamber of Commerce, a day after the panel’s first meeting in  Washington .  “We want to have metrics, process and accountability,”
the CEO said. “If it doesn’t create measurable results, then we
should stop and start something new.”  The global economy is “getting better every day,” fed by
higher demand for manufactured products from a growing
population and increasing material prices, Immelt said.  Housing remains the biggest economic strain in the U.S.,
where the “general mood” is improving, Immelt said. The
country’s northern neighbor,  Canada , has the potential to
benefit from a shift in global wealth if it can curb dependence
on the U.S. and “old-fashioned work rules,” he said.  GE, based in Fairfield, Connecticut, has “a lot of cash,”
Immelt said, and he wants to invest some of it in Canadian oil
sands. The company gets about $5 billion in annual sales from
the U.S.’s biggest trading partner, he said.  “There are almost no economies that have made the
transition from natural resources to manufacturing and
innovation,” Immelt told the audience. “Canada hasn’t begun
that pathway. That is the challenge: Can you create enough
technology and innovation? If you can, you will become the great
story of the next decades.”  $15 A Barrel  Canada’s  oil sands  are a “massive energy asset” the
country should market more effectively, Immelt said. Crude oil,
which settled at $97.88 a barrel today on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , “will never go back to $15,” he said.  GE has agreed to spend about $8 billion in energy-related
acquisitions including oil- and gas-extraction technology in the
past six months.  The company is the world’s largest maker of power-
generation equipment, medical-imaging machines, jet engines and
locomotives. Other products include oil- and gas-exploration
equipment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  