-- 
German Government Bonds Fall Before Inflation Report as Equities Rebound

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-02-25T17:11:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/german-two-year-notes-set-for-weekly-loss-irish-yields-rise-as-polls-open.html
German government bonds declined as
a report showed inflation in the euro region’s largest economy
accelerated more than forecast in February, giving the  European
Central Bank  more reason to raise rates.  Ireland’s 10-year yields were within five basis points of
the highest in nearly three months as the nation began voting in
a general election. German 10-year bonds declined, trimming a
weekly advance, as concern eased that the crisis in  Libya  will
push up  oil prices  to a level that will dent the global economic
recovery. Belgian inflation quickened to the fastest pace in
more than two years. Italy sold 9.5 billion euros ($13.1
billion) of notes and bonds due 2013, 2017 and 2021.  “The market will be sensitive to any upside surprise,” in
the German inflation data because it will underpin speculation
about higher ECB rates, said  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-
income strategist at Rabobank International in London. “Ireland
is heading into an election, which could see it underperform for
a second session.”  The two-year German note yield, typically the most
sensitive to interest-rate expectations, climbed one basis point
to 1.54 percent as of 5:06 p.m. in London, 14 basis points
higher in the week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
1.25 percent security due March 2013, which was sold for the
first time on Feb. 23, fell 0.02, or 20 euro cents per 1,000-
euro face amount, to 99.915.  The yield on the 10-year bund, the euro-region’s benchmark
government security, was two basis points higher at 3.14
percent, trimming its weekly decline to 11 basis points.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 1.3 percent, snapping a
five-day decline, and the  MSCI World  Index climbed 0.9 percent.  German CPI  Germany’s consumer price index rose at an annual rate of
2.2 percent this month, the fastest pace since October 2008. The
median estimate of 31 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for a 2.1 percent increase.  Inflation in  Belgium , the sixth-largest economy in the euro
region, accelerated to 3.4 percent in February as the cost of
electricity and heating oil jumped, the Ministry of Economic
Affairs in Brussels said today. That’s up from 3.2 percent in
January and the highest since October 2008, according to
Bloomberg data.  Euro-area inflation jumped to 2.4 percent last month,
remaining above the ECB’s 2 percent ceiling for a second month.
The Frankfurt-based central bank has kept its benchmark interest
rate at a record low of 1 percent for almost two years and is
forecast by economists to leave it unchanged again on March 3.  ECB Rhetoric  Three-month Euribor futures have fallen this week, pushing
the implied yield on the contract expiring in December up five
basis points to 1.945 percent, as traders added to bets that the
European Central Bank will boost borrowing costs. It has risen
from 1.33 percent at the end of 2010. Eonia forwards show
investors expect the ECB will raise its benchmark rate by 25
basis points at its September meeting, according to Deutsche
Bank AG data.  Central bank policy makers including Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch and  Germany ’s Axel A. Weber said this week that  interest
rates  may have to rise to contain inflation in the currency
region. The ECB’s Vice President  Vitor Constancio  speaks today
in  New York .  “The rhetoric we’ve seen from the main players has stepped
up,” said  Huw Worthington , a fixed-income strategist at
Barclays Plc in London. “The expectation for hikes from the ECB
will continue, I think certainly the closer we get to the first
hike, which we think will be around September time, you will see
rates continue to edge higher.”  Italian Auction  German government bonds handed investors a loss of 1.1
percent this year, compared with a 0.3 percent return for
Italian bonds, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Irish
bonds lost 1.1 percent this year and 14.2 percent last year.  Italian 10-year  government bonds  stayed lower after the
country sold 5 billion euros of 3.75 percent securities due 2021
at an average yield of 4.84 percent. Investors bid for 1.3 times
the amount of debt on offer. That compares with a so-called bid-
to-cover of 1.45 times at a previous auction of similar-maturity
bonds on Jan. 28.  Italy also sold 3 billion euros of 2.25 percent securities
maturing in 2013 and 1.5 billion floating-rate notes due 2017.  “In terms of demand, the auction was a success, the bonds
sold at the top end of the announced range,” said  Luca Cazzulani , a senior fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA in
Milan. On the new 10-year benchmark bond the bid-to-cover ratio
“was lower than a usual 10-year auction, but this is just due
to the very large size sold.”  Irish Election  Italian 10-year yields rose two basis points to 4.85
percent, 170 basis points more than German bunds and within
three basis points of the highest since Jan. 12.  Ireland’s 10-year bond yield added one basis point to 9.33
percent today as voters headed to the ballot angry over the
collapse of the economy that forced the nation to seek a bailout
from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund .  Enda Kenny, who opinion polls signal is on course to become
Irish prime minister after today’s election, said on Feb. 22 he
“sees no circumstances” in which the nation would stop paying
its debts. During the three-week campaign, his party, Fine Gael,
has stopped threatening to leave owners of bank bonds unpaid.  The nation’s new government will inherit an economy that
has shrunk about 15 percent since the end of 2007 while
unemployment has tripled to a rate of 13.4 percent. Voting ends
at 10 p.m. and counting begins tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 