-- 
German Lawmakers Snub Irish on Tax, Say Similar Rates Must Come

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-02-25T11:58:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/german-lawmakers-snub-irish-on-tax-say-similar-rates-must-come.html
German lawmakers said a plea by
Irish opposition leader  Enda Kenny  to preserve his country’s
corporate tax rate is unrealistic and unfair as  Europe  tries to
pull together to staunch the sovereign debt crisis.  On the day of Ireland’s election, lawmakers from Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s coalition snubbed Kenny’s claim in Berlin last
week that Ireland’s 12.5 percent corporate levy is “non-
negotiable.” Kenny’s call only highlights the unfairness of
Europe’s uneven company tax rates, they said.  “Europe is struggling to find a formula for the debt
crisis and tax dumping can’t be part of the plan,” Hans Michelbach, a Christian Social Union lawmaker from parliament’s
 Finance Committee , said in an interview. “Ireland wants it both
ways: distortive corporate tax rates and trade bloc aid.”  While polls show Kenny’s Fine Gael party may win today’s
election, any pledge to maintain the national  tax rate  may run
up against a drive by Germany and  France  to link harmonized tax
to a package of tools to help the euro. Merkel in comments this
week said the Irish levy led to “misallocations” that helped
cause the country’s banking crisis.  EU states should be permitted to set their own tax rates
within a “certain” corridor, Merkel said in a Feb. 23 speech.  Ireland’s low company tax has attracted investment from
companies including New York-based Citigroup Inc. and  Microsoft
Corp ., the world’s largest software maker. They fueled an
export-driven economic boom that turned to bust when the  property market  collapsed in 2008, pushing banks to the brink of
collapse.  Can’t Sustain Tax  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said in January that
Ireland can’t sustain a tax rate that’s half the European-Union
average after it sought an 85 billion-euro ($117 billion)
lifeline last year. Germany is the biggest contributor to the
 European Financial Stability Facility  that is helping Ireland
stay solvent.  Managing the crisis offers a chance to revive the prospects
for Germany’s decade-old push for the EU to adopt uniform
corporate tax rates, said Free Democrat lawmaker Daniel Volk, a
tax expert who is a member the Berlin parliament’s Finance
Committee.  “Put it this way: if all the EU states but Ireland agree
to a degree of harmonization then Ireland would be ill-advised
to try to block it,” Volk said in an interview today.  EU Tax Core    Germany ’s plan to push tax harmonization got a boost from
EU Tax Commissioner Algirdas Semeta, cited in the Handelsblatt
newspaper on Feb. 14. Semeta said a core of EU states should
start efforts to bring the company tax rates closer if not all
27 member states were prepared to join talks.  Corporate tax in the EU averages 23 percent, according to
the bloc’s data. In France the rate is 34 percent, while Germany
applies a corporate tax of 15 percent on top of a local
commercial tax at the same rate.  Merkel’s proposal for a corridor of corporate tax in the EU
has coalition support, said Michael Meister, the top finance
spokesman in parliament for her ruling  Christian Democrats .  “I imagine there’ll be an appropriate transition period
for adopting such a solution,” Meister said in an interview
today. “There’s no time like the present to move forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.netTo 
contact the reporters on this story: 