-- 
Germany Denies Merkel Chided Netanyahu, Repeats Criticism

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-02-25T13:44:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/germany-denies-merkel-chided-netanyahu-repeats-criticism.html
The German government denied that  Chancellor Angela Merkel  chided Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu over the Middle East peace process, though it
reiterated Merkel’s criticism that no progress is being made.  Merkel told Netanyahu that he had done nothing to advance
peace in an “extremely tense” phone conversation on Feb. 21,
Israel’s  Haaretz newspaper  reported, citing an unnamed German
official. German government spokesman Steffen Seibert confirmed
that Netanyahu had called Merkel on that date, though said the
report “certainly didn’t match the tone of the chancellor.”  “It’s true that the current standstill in the peace
process was an important subject in the conversation, a
standstill that Merkel has criticized on many public
occasions,” Seibert told reporters today in Berlin. He said she
made the same criticism in Netanyahu’s presence on her trip to  Israel  last month.  Merkel and Netanyahu spoke two days after  Germany  supported
a draft resolution in the  United Nations  Security Council that
would have declared Israel’s settlement construction in the  West
Bank  and East Jerusalem to be illegal and demanded a halt to
such activity. The U.S. vetoed the draft.  “It is not our practice to comment on stories in the
media,”  Mark Regev , Netanyahu’s spokesman, said in a statement.  Netanyahu called Merkel to express his disappointment over
Germany’s support of the measure, Haaretz said. The newspaper
described Merkel’s response as “furious,” reporting that she
responded by expressing her disappointment in Netanyahu.  The U.S. was alone in opposing the measure on the 15-member
council, the UN’s principal policy-making panel. It was the
Obama administration’s first veto of a UN resolution and marked
the 10th time in the past 11 years that the U.S. has voted
against a text considered to be critical of Israel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  