-- 
Ghost of Argentina Tempers Ireland Default Threats: Euro Credit

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-02-25T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/ghost-of-argentina-tempers-default-talk-by-irish-politicians-euro-credit.html
Irish politicians are stepping back
from threats to default as the specter of  Argentina , locked out
of international capital markets for a decade after failing to
make payments on $95 billion of debt in 2001, looms large.  The cost of protecting Irish debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps has tumbled 80 basis points
to 595 during the past six weeks. Similar contracts for
Argentina rose 120 basis points to 670 in the same period,
according to CMA prices in  New York .  Enda Kenny, who polls signal is on course to become Irish
prime minister after today’s election, said on Feb. 22 he “sees
no circumstances” in which the nation would stop paying its
debts. During the three-week campaign, his party, Fine Gael, has
stopped threatening to leave owners of bank bonds unpaid.  Default “would mean we wouldn’t be able to borrow money
for a very long time afterwards,” said Garret FitzGerald, who
served two terms as Irish prime minister in the 1980s. “Is
Argentina borrowing now? It’s like the question, why aren’t we
rioting? The answer is we are a northern European country: we
don’t do things like that.”  Indebtedness for Ireland, which sought a bailout in
November, will surge to 125 percent of gross domestic product by
2013, the  International Monetary Fund  forecasts. As the country
grapples with fixing its banks and taming the euro region’s
biggest fiscal deficit, parties including  Sinn Fein  are
demanding Ireland default on some debt. Doing so may hurt the
country’s ability to re-enter bond markets, which Kenny has said
he wants to do “as soon as possible.”  Busted Banks  “The banking system is busted,” said Gerry Adams, the
president of Sinn Fein, who is seeking a seat in the Irish
parliament. “Irish people cannot afford to pay the billions
that the government has agreed to.”  After posting one of the highest growth rates in the world
in the 1990s, Argentina began to stumble toward the end of the
decade. A 1999 devaluation in  Brazil  worsened the country’s
economic plight, and by late 2001 the government stopped paying
creditors and soon abandoned a currency peg at parity to the
dollar. A decade on, the country is still negotiating with the
Paris Club group of creditor nations. The government of
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, which in June
restructured $12.9 billion in defaulted debt, still owes the  Paris Club  about $6.7 billion.  Yield Premium  As far back as 2009, Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said
Ireland is “not Argentina” in terms of creditworthiness. “In
relation to default, please think about jobs,” Lenihan said in
an interview on RTE radio yesterday. “We’ve managed to maintain
a pipeline of jobs from foreign investment,” which reneging on
debts might damage, he said.  Ireland’s 10-year bonds yield about 9.31 percent, up from
9.02 percent at the start of the year. Investors demand a yield
premium of 619 basis points to buy Irish debt rather than German
bunds, more than double the average spread last year. Ireland is
rated A- at  Standard & Poor’s  after a one-level cut on Feb. 2,
eight steps better than Argentina’s B grade.  Instead of selling bonds to international investors,
Argentina’s government deployed $6.6 billion in central bank
reserves to pay creditors last year. This year, it will use $7.5
billion of its record $52.4 billion in reserves to pay debt,
according to Fernandez’s 2011 budget.  All of Ireland’s main political parties in the election
campaign have said they want to avoid a sovereign debt default,
even as the costs of the banking bailout surge.  Careless Talk  “Political talk about default could backfire, and it
remains to be seen if Irish politicians actually think they can
do that,” said Michiel de Bruin, who oversees about $35 billion
as head of European government debt at F&C Netherlands in
Amsterdam. “Policy makers in the region are working to resolve
the debt issue, and the incoming government will likely aim to
be in a good position to negotiate for lower borrowing costs or
more favorable terms to get its debt on a sustainable track.”  As part of its 85 billion-euro ($1.2 trillion) aid package
from the European Union and International Monetary Fund, Ireland
agreed to pay senior bank bondholders in full. On Feb. 2, Fine
Gael said if the terms weren’t eased, a new government may have
to write down the value of bonds of Irish banks or face the
prospect of a sovereign default.  In all, about 77 billion euros of Irish bank debt is at
risk of restructuring,  Hank Calenti , a London-based credit
analyst at Societe Generale SA, wrote in a Jan. 28 note to
clients. The figure drops to 41 billion euros when government-
guaranteed securities, secured borrowings and loans between
banks are excluded.  Fitch Ratings  said on Feb. 23 the potential
costs of imposing “coercive burden sharing” on senior bank
creditors could “far outweigh the financial benefits.”  Friendly Offers  The compromise may be to buy back securities belonging to
Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and Irish Nationwide Building Society in
a “friendly tender,” according to Cathal O’Leary, head of
fixed-income sales at NCB Stockbrokers. “Coercive tenders” for
senior debt in Bank of Ireland Plc and Allied Irish Banks Plc
“won’t happen,” he wrote in a Feb. 23 research note.  Meanwhile, Micheal Martin, leader of the ruling party,  Fianna Fail , set to be ousted after 14 years in power, has a
piece of advice for Kenny as he prepares to take office.  “If you burn all those people, there is the prospect of
those very same people saying I might not lend to you now
because of your behavior the last time,” he told reporters in
Dublin on Feb. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  