-- 
Giants, Cowboy Workers, Governments May Suffer If There Is an NFL Lockout

-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-02-25T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/giants-cowboy-workers-governments-may-suffer-if-there-is-an-nfl-lockout.html
Governments that subsidized $7
billion of National Football League stadium construction will be
the biggest losers if the  New York  Giants,  Dallas Cowboys  and
other teams lock out players March 4.  Mayors and city officials of Houston, Miami, Minneapolis,
San Diego and  Kansas City ,  Missouri , have written the NFL asking
that it avoid a work stoppage that could cost the entire season
and millions in revenue and wages for workers at stadiums,
hotels, restaurants and other businesses that depend on games.  Governments that financed 65 percent of new stadiums in the
past 20 years would receive an unexpected blow at a time when
tight budgets are forcing them to dismiss teachers and
firefighters and cut back other government services.  “We don’t want to lose a dime,” said Tony Young,  San
Diego  City Council president, who said by telephone that the
NFL’s Chargers generate at least $100 million of local spending.
“We’re talking about janitors, parking-lot attendants and
catering crews, people who are already struggling.”  The 2011 regular season could be in jeopardy if “serious
negotiations” don’t begin soon, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell
said in a  commentary  posted on the  NFLlabor.com  website last
week. The league may lose $1 billion in ticket sales if it takes
until September to reach an agreement, according to Eric Grubman, executive vice president for business operations. Each
week of lost games would cost the league about $400 million.  Opting Out  Owners in the U.S.’s most-watched television sport voted in
2008 to opt out of the labor deal with players as of next week,
saying it didn’t account for costs such as those for building
stadiums. Talks have ranged from dividing revenue and expanding
the season to 18 games from 16, to a rookie salary cap and
health-care benefits. Both sides agreed Feb. 17 to negotiations
run by the  Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service .  Bondholders of both corporate and municipal debt tied to
stadiums and other infrastructure would be protected by reserves
of as much as 18 months of revenue or the proceeds of hotel and
motel taxes pledged to repay bonds sold by municipalities. The
rating company  Standard & Poor’s  said in 2008 that it didn’t
expect the NFL owners’ rejection of the current contract to hurt
repayment of seven stadium-related debt issues.  “If NFL games were not played, the stadium projects should
have sufficient liquidity to withstand a prolonged labor
action,” S&P’s Jodi E. Hecht and Craig Parmelee, both New York-
based analysts, said in a bulletin.  Cowboy Stadium Bonds  As the deadline for an agreement has approached, prices of
bonds that the city of Arlington,  Texas , issued to help build a
new stadium for the Dallas Cowboys have risen, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. On Feb. 23 the bonds traded at an average
of 98.4 cents on the dollar, up from 93.8 cents on Jan. 19,
driving the yield down to 5.14 percent from 5.55 percent.  Sal Galatioto, who has helped structure bond deals for
teams including the  New York Giants , said he doesn’t expect
stadium bondholders to be hurt because of reserves and the fact
that the national TV contract would keep paying the NFL during a
work stoppage.  “You’re making plenty of money because you have no
expenses,” said Galatioto, the president of  Galatioto Sports
Partners LLC  in New York. “The bondholders would be fine.”  For NFL cities, the teams add value to the property-tax
base and labor pool, said N. Edward Coulson, an economist with  Pennsylvania State University  in  University Park , who has
studied the value of sports franchises.  “People are willing to pay more to live in a town with an
NFL team,” Coulson said.  Sought-After Franchises  The value leads government officials to offer subsidies as
incentives to help owners finance stadiums. In Houston, bonds
for the Houston Texans’ Reliant Stadium are backed in part by
taxes on hotel and car rentals. Alcohol and tobacco taxes helped
fund the Cleveland Browns’ stadium.  Subsidies in the Ohio city, which dismissed firefighters,
and in  New Orleans , which has struggled to rebuild after  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005, would continue to be paid even if
localities are cut off from the economic benefits expected from
games, according to official documents and reports. Yet the
cities would lose the economic benefits generated by the events.  In  Minneapolis , the  Minnesota Vikings ’ regular-season games
generate $6 million of spending that “support a wide variety of
good jobs for workers in the hospitality, hotel and service
industries,” wrote Mayor R.T. Rybak in a Feb. 3 letter to
Goodell. Playoff games generate $9 million, the letter said.  Metrodome Situation  The city has no guarantee the Vikings will play in the
Metrodome after the roof collapsed in December, leaving the team
to host games at the University of Minnesota’s TCF Bank stadium.  Houston Mayor Annise Parker said in her Feb. 8 letter to
Goodell that the Houston Texans’ games in Reliant Stadium
generate $250 million of economic activity in restaurants and
other entertainment outlets.  “Any decline in these revenues would hurt working families
and the city as a whole, further compounding the difficulties we
are facing due to the ongoing economic downturn,” Parker wrote.  As businesses and governments that depend directly on games
lose income, the impact on the economy in most NFL cities will
be minimal as fans spend on other activities, said  Andrew Zimbalist , who teaches sports economics at  Smith College  in
Northampton,  Massachusetts .  “It may be devastating to the psyche of a community, but
not the economy,” Zimbalist said. “Instead of spending money
at the stadium, fans will go bowling or do something else.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in  Dallas  at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 