-- 
GM Estate's Bankruptcy Plan Accepted by 97 Percent of Unsecured Creditors

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-02-25T19:18:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/gm-estate-s-bankruptcy-plan-accepted-by-97-percent-of-unsecured-creditors.html
General Motors Corp.’s plan to
liquidate unwanted businesses in bankruptcy was accepted by
creditors holding $17.9 billion, or 85 percent, of its unsecured
debt, according to court documents.  Of the automaker’s 88,107 creditors eligible to vote, 97
percent approved the Chapter 11 plan, according to a tally filed
by Epiq Bankruptcy Solutions in  Manhattan  court yesterday.
Acceptance by the majority of unsecured creditors brings the
bankruptcy closer to approval even as some creditors have
objected in advance of a final hearing scheduled for March 3.  “Objections to the plan should be overruled by this court
and the plan should be confirmed,” a committee of unsecured
creditors said in court papers filed Feb. 23.  The committee worked for 21 months to come up with the
plan, which “provides the best possible recovery for unsecured
creditors as a whole,” lawyers for the group wrote.  The results include holders of claims from European bonds
and a Nova Scotia subsidiary, and need to be updated with
results from holders in  Italy , Epiq said.  When GM filed for bankruptcy in June 2009, it sold some
assets to a newly formed company that has since gone public.
Unwanted properties were left under  bankruptcy protection . An
outline of the terms of a plan for so-called Old GM was approved
by the  bankruptcy court  Dec. 7.  Asbestos Claims  A separate tally by claims agent The Garden City Group
showed that 98 percent of holders of asbestos claims by amount
voted to accept it. Together, the 17,027 claimholders have
$17,027 worth of claims.  Some creditors of General Motors Corp.’s unwanted
businesses object to its final wind-down, saying it improperly
treats $1.3 billion in debt. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan
Stanley and  hedge funds  holding notes in a Nova Scotia
subsidiary rejected the plan.  In objections filed earlier this month, the Nova Scotia
note holders said an agreement made before GM’s bankruptcy
relieved GM Canada of $1.3 billion in intercompany loans.
Appaloosa Management LP, Aurelius Capital Management LP, Elliott
Management Corp. and Fortress Investment Group LLC, holders of
notes in General Motors Nova Scotia Finance, said the sale was
used to wrongly avoid paying $1.3 billion in debt.  Onondaga County, New York, and the California Department of
Toxic Substances Control have also objected to the plan.  The case is In re Motors Liquidation Co., 09-50026,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in  New York  bankruptcy court at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 