-- 
Goldman’s Special-Situations Chief Ruzika to Leave

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-02-25T19:05:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/goldman-sachs-special-situations-group-head-richard-ruzika-plans-to-leave.html
(Corrects description of SSG founders in the fifth,
sixth paragraphs of story originally published Feb. 25.)    Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
special situations-group chief Richard Ruzika plans to
leave and will be replaced by Jason Brown.  Ruzika, 51, who has run the unit that invests in
distressed assets since 2007, will retire at the end of
April, Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and
President  Gary Cohn  wrote in a Feb. 17 memo obtained by
Bloomberg News. Brown, who has led the group in  Asia  since
2007, will remain in  Hong Kong , according to a separate
memo.  The group, known as SSG, began in Asia more than a
decade ago before expanding into  Europe  and the Americas.
While SSG’s overall performance isn’t made public, some of
its one-time gains and losses are included in company
disclosures. The group’s sale of Horizon Wind Energy LLC in
2007 generated about $900 million in gains, and it made
about $500 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 from the
recovery of failed Japanese golf courses that it purchased.    Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based
Goldman Sachs, confirmed the content of the memos. The
moves were reported earlier today by the New York Times.  Peter Briger, who left in 2001 and is now co-chairman
of  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , and Edward Mule, now CEO
of Silver Point Capital LP, started the Asia business,
according to three people with knowledge of the group who
declined to be identified because the details haven’t been
disclosed by the bank.  New York Jet  Mark McGoldrick, who left in 2007 to start Mount
Kellett Capital Management LP, became co-head of the global
business with Ralph Rosenberg in 2003, according to a
Goldman Sachs memo at the time, and later led the group
with Stephen McGuinness. Ruzika became co-head with
McGuinness and sole head when McGuinness moved into Goldman
Sachs Asset Management in 2008, according to one of the
people familiar with evolution of the unit.  Ruzika joined Goldman Sachs in 1982 as a silver and
gold trader. He became head of global commodities in 2000
and co-head of global macro trading in 2006.  Ruzika played football at  Columbia University  and was
signed by the  New York Jets  in 1981 as a tight end before
he decided he didn’t want to play football and left
training camp, according to a New York Times article at the
time.  Performance Not Public  The firm has never given detailed results of the
special-situations group, which had been included in the
fixed-income, currencies and commodities revenue segment.
Last month, the company changed the way it disclosed
financial information, moving SSG to a new investing and
lending division.  Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer David Viniar
said last month that there’s a chance some activities in
the firm’s investing and lending segment won’t be allowed
by new regulatory rules. SSG shouldn’t be affected by the
Dodd-Frank Act’s prohibition on proprietary trading because
most of the group “is actually a lending business,”
Viniar told analysts on Oct. 19.  Regulators are in the process of implementing the
Volcker rule, which was passed as part of Dodd-Frank in
July. The  Federal Reserve  confirmed this month that banks
would generally have two years to comply after the rule
takes effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  