-- 
Gold May Rise on Libya, Inflation Concern, According to Survey

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-02-25T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/gold-may-rise-on-libya-inflation-concern-according-to-survey.html
Gold, trading near a record high,
may climb as violence in  Libya  and concern that inflation will
accelerate boost demand for an alternative asset, a survey
found.  Sixteen of 20 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 80 percent, said the metal will rise next week.
Four predicted lower prices. Gold for April delivery was up 1.8
percent for this week at $1,414 an ounce at 11 a.m. yesterday on
the Comex in New York. Futures reached a record $1,432.50 in
December.  “Unrest in Libya and the potential for it spreading to
other key Arab areas is fueling the advance,” said Jim Pogoda,
an investor in Summit,  New Jersey , and a former precious-metals
trader for Mitsubishi International Corp.  Libya is the latest country in the region to be rocked by
protests that toppled presidents in Tunisia and  Egypt  this year.
Opponents of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  consolidated control
over the oil-rich east while he clamped down on Tripoli, using
tanks to block highways and security forces to attack residents,
witnesses said. Oil surged to $100 a barrel in New York for the
first time in two years.  “The situation in Libya continues to create jitters over
oil supplies, which in turn could stoke inflation,”  James Moore , an analyst at TheBullionDesk.com in London, said in an e-
mail. Some investors buy gold as a hedge against rising prices.  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of Feb. 18.  The weekly gold survey that started more than six years ago
has forecast prices accurately in 200 of 351 weeks, or 57
percent of the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish: 16 Bearish: 4 Neutral: 0  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 