-- 
Google Changes How It Searches Web to Get ‘Quality’ Results

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-02-25T23:46:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/google-alters-how-it-searches-web-focuses-on-quality-results.html
  Google Inc . said it changed the way
the company carries out Web searches to feature more “high-
quality” sites, following criticism that its results favored
information of little value to users.  The change to Google’s algorithms, which it relies on to
discern what users want when they search the Web, affects 12
percent of queries, the company  said . Google made the change
this week, aiming to give higher rankings to sites with original
content, in-depth reports or “thoughtful” analysis.  “This update is designed to reduce rankings for low-
quality sites -- sites which are low-value add for users, copy
content from other websites or sites that are just not very
useful,” the company said in a blog posting late yesterday.  Google, which gets most of its sales from search-engine
advertising, has received complaints that spammers and websites
game its system to receive prominent placement. The company has
made other changes in recent months aimed at quelling concerns
over so-called content farms, which tailor information in such a
way that it takes precedence in results.  “People are asking for even stronger action on content
farms and sites that consist primarily of spammy or low-quality
content,”  Mountain View , California-based Google  said on its
blog  last month.  Demand Media  Companies like Demand Media Inc., a content farm that uses
on an army of freelancers to generate material, needs Google to
bring traffic to their sites, said Danny Sullivan, the editor in
chief of search-analysis firm Search Engine Land. Demand Media’s
initial public offering in January put a spotlight on content
farms, and Google’s latest changes could affect their
performance, he said.  “What it does mean for them is they are definitely on
notice,” Sullivan said. “If they have subpar content, Google
is going to try to take out that content. If they’ve getting
some of the revenue -- or significant amounts of their revenue
-- from subpar content, then it’s going to go to their bottom
line.”  Larry Fitzgibbon, Demand Media’s executive vice president
of media and operations, said Google’s changes haven’t had a big
effect so far on its content and media business.  “It’s impossible to speculate how these or any changes
made by Google impact any online business in the long term --
but at this point in time, we haven’t seen a material net
impact,” Fitzgibbon said in  a blog post .  Stock Reaction  Demand Media’s stock dropped as much as 7.8 percent today
following Google’s announcement, before rebounding. The shares
closed up 36 cents at $22.96 on the New York Stock Exchange.
They have risen 35 percent since their debut last month.  Google advanced $1.22 to $610.04 on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. The shares have climbed 2.7 percent this year.  The company also has faced questions about retail sites
boosting their search results. The New York Times reported
earlier this month that J.C. Penney Co. artificially increased
its ranking on Google for a range of product categories.  The retailer has since terminated its relationship with the
consulting service that worked on its search performance, said
Darcie Brossart, a spokeswoman for Plano, Texas-based J.C.
Penney. The company also has taken down more than 2,000 Web
links that were set up to boost its results, she said. The links
weren’t authorized by J.C. Penney, and the site saw no financial
benefit from the higher search results, Brossart said.  Overstock.com  The Wall Street Journal raised similar questions about  Overstock.com Inc ., saying Google was penalizing the e-commerce
site by moving its links down in search results.  The site was enabling university webmasters to provide
discount links to students and faculty, which Google didn’t
believe should influence its algorithms, Overstock Chief
Executive Officer Patrick Byrne said in an e-mailed statement.
The e-commerce company discontinued the program and worked
aggressively to pull down or deactivate the links, he said.  Google also faces more competition from  Microsoft Corp .’s
Bing search engine. Google’s market share of U.S. queries
dropped to 65.6 percent in January from 66.6 percent the
previous month, according to ComScore Inc. Bing accounted for
13.1 percent of searches in January, up from 12 percent.  Earlier this month, Google announced a feature for its
Chrome Web browser that lets users block unwanted sites from
search results. Feedback from that effort didn’t influence the
latest changes, though the adjustment does appear to play down
many of the sites that users were blocking, Google said in the
blog posting.  “At this point, anybody providing content and making money
from it is highly dependent on the traffic from Google,” said
Whit Andrews, an analyst with Stamford, Connecticut-based
Gartner Inc. “Any content provider is reading that blog entry
exhaustively.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  