-- 
Guardi Venice Scene May Fetch 20 Million Pounds at Sotheby’s

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-02-25T00:38:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/guardi-painting-of-grand-canal-may-fetch-32-million-at-sotheby-s-auction.html
A view of the Grand Canal by the
Venetian painter Francesco Guardi, estimated at 20 million
pounds ($32 million), will be one of the highlights of London’s
Old Master auctions in July.    Venice , a View of the Rialto Bridge from the Fondamenta
del Carbon,” was one of four large-scale canvases that Guardi
painted in the late 1760s. Never seen at auction before, it will
be offered by Sotheby’s on July 6.  “It’s as good a Guardi as is likely to turn up,” the
London-based dealer and scholar Charles Beddington said in an
interview.  “It’s the best painting by the artist that has been seen
at auction since 1989,” said Beddington, who curated the
exhibition “Venice: Canaletto and His Rivals,” which opened
this week at the  National Gallery of Art , Washington D.C.  The action-packed, 78-inch-wide (1.98 meter) Guardi work is
one of a pair that was bought in Venice by the English “Grand
Tourist” Chaloner Arcedeckne in 1768. They were acquired by the
Guinness family in 1891 and passed by inheritance to the
Conservative politician Paul Channon, who died in 2007. The  Sotheby’s  painting is being sold by his heirs, said dealers with
knowledge of the matter. Its companion is included in the
catalog of the Washington show.  Another painting from the group was sold by Sotheby’s for
94.35 million French francs ($15.9 million) in  Monaco  in 1989,
the auction house said. At the time, that was the second-highest
auction price paid for an Old Master painting and it remains a
record for Guardi.  “Guardi often comes up when people who don’t normally
collect Old Masters name the artists they’d like to own,” Alex
Bell, Sotheby’s international head of Old Master paintings, said
in an interview. “This is a grand and atmospheric painting, and
the scene is highly recognizable. This is the sort of work that
could appeal to a variety of buyers.”  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in  London  at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 