-- 
Libyan Envoy Asks UN Council to Save Country From Qaddafi

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-02-25T22:46:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/libyan-envoy-asks-un-council-to-save-country-from-qaddafi.html
  Libya ’s ambassador to the  United
Nations  appealed to the Security Council today to “save” his
nation from the violence unleashed on protesters by leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and to impose sanctions on the regime.  “Please UN, save Libya,” Ambassador Mohammed Shalgham
said at a meeting of the Security Council. “I tell my brother
Qaddafi, leave the Libyans alone.”  Shalgham, a former Libyan foreign minister, was embraced by
UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, U.S. Deputy Ambassador
Rosemary DiCarlo and other diplomats following his speech. He
hugged Libya’s Deputy Ambassador Ibrahim Dabbashi, who denounced
the regime earlier in the week and was crying as Shalgham’s
speech ended.  After the speech, Britain and  France  circulated a draft
resolution that would freeze the assets and ban foreign travel
of Qaddafi, his seven sons, his daughter, two cousins and 11
other government officials.  The measure also would impose an arms embargo on the sale
or purchase of all types of weapons to and from Libya and would
refer reported violence for inquiry by the  International
Criminal Court  in The Hague. It asks the prosecutor of the court
to report to the council within two months, and every six months
thereafter, on its investigation of alleged violations of
international law by the Qaddafi regime.  Imposing Sanctions  Shalgham said that he would support imposition of the
sanctions and that most of Libya’s diplomats around the world
consider him to be the country’s foreign minister.  “Ninety percent of our missions all over the world are not
with Qaddafi,” Shalgham said. “We are working for Libya and
consider me their minister of foreign affairs, because I was for
nine years. All of them are working directly with me.”  The draft resolution also would establish a committee of
the  Security Council  to monitor enforcement of the sanctions,
designate other individuals for possible action, and report on
progress within 30 days.  All UN member nations would be asked to report on
implementation of the resolution within 120 days.  The Security Council has scheduled a meeting for 11 a.m.
tomorrow in New York for further talks on the text.  French Ambassador  Gerard Araud  told reporters that there
was a “large commonality” within the Security Council on quick
action toward adoption of the text.  ‘Killing Your People’  “I hope within hours, not days, they can do something
tangible, effective to stop what they are doing there, what
Qaddafi and his sons are doing against our innocent people,”
Shalgham said. “You can’t be a leader or a king or a president
while you are killing your people just for saying they want to
be free. It can’t continue. I don’t know how it is going to
finish.”  Ban, who addressed the Security Council before Shalgham,
also appealed for quick action.  “The challenge for us now is how to provide real
protection and do all we can to halt the ongoing violence,” Ban
said. “It is time for the Security Council to consider concrete
actions. The statements and actions of the Security Council are
eagerly awaited and will be closely followed throughout the
region.”  Ban later told reporters that he had witnessed an
“extraordinary scene” in the Security Council chamber and a
“truly historic moment.” He said the international community
must “rise to the occasion.”  Shooting at Demonstrators  Dabbashi earlier told reporters in  New York  that forces
loyal to Qaddafi have killed hundreds of protesters in Tripoli
today.  “They are shooting at the demonstrators, trying to stop
them,” he said. “Hundreds of people have been killed. We
expect thousands to be killed today in Tripoli.”  Dabbashi said ambulances, which appeared to have been sent
to pick up wounded protesters in Tripoli, were filled with
soldiers who opened fire on demonstrators when the doors opened.  “I call on the international community to intervene now,
to send a clear message to Qaddafi that he should stop the
killing,” Dabbashi said. “Otherwise, I think he will continue
this killing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  