-- 
Libyan Prince Says Tribes Are United Against Qaddafi, Who Ousted Relative

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-02-25T14:18:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/libyan-prince-says-tribes-are-united-against-qaddafi-who-ousted-relative.html
Libyan Prince Muhammad bin Sayyid
Hassan as-Senussi said that the country’s tribes are united
against  Muammar Qaddafi , who ousted Senussi’s great-uncle in a
1969 coup, and that there is no risk of civil war.  “The Libyan people and the tribes have proven they are
united,” and talk of civil war has been “created by the regime
to spread fear,” as-Senussi said in a telephone interview from  London  today. He said massacres are being carried out by pro-
Qaddafi forces.  Qaddafi bolstered defenses in the capital, Tripoli, today
after rebels seized much of the rest of the country. Security
forces opened fire in Tripoli to prevent a demonstration after
Friday prayers by Qaddafi’s opponents, Al Jazeera television
said. The death toll since the uprising began last week has
reached several hundred and foreign governments are seeking to
evacuate their citizens.  As-Senussi, 48, is the son of Hassan as-Senussi and the
great-nephew of King Idris, who was overthrown by Qaddafi in
September 1969.  Idris and his wife, Queen Fatima, were abroad when the coup
took place and travelled to  Egypt , where they remained until
their deaths. Qaddafi detained as-Senussi and his father along
with other members of the royal family and held them under house
arrest. In 1984, their house was destroyed and the family moved
into a shack on the beach. Four years later, they were allowed
to leave for the U.K.    Libya ’s largest tribe, the Warfalla, on Feb. 20 became the
first to condemn Qaddafi, and three days later most tribes had
followed with expressions of opposition.  1951 Constitution  As-Senussi urged the international community to intervene
against Qaddafi and said he is on good terms with opposition
groups. He said it is too early to discuss what shape a new
government may take or whether the 1951 constitution, which came
into force after the country became independent from  Italy ,
could be revived.  “These matters are premature and are issues that are
decided by the Libyan people,” as-Senussi said. “What’s more
important now is the killing of innocent people.” Asked whether
he wants to return to Libya, he said: “The Senussi family
considers itself as in the service of the Libyan people.”  Many Libyan protesters have displayed the flag -- red,
green and black stripes with a crescent and star -- used by the
country when it was a constitutional monarchy under the as-
Senussis between 1951 and 1969.  “‘The Libyan youth have raised the flag of freedom,
independence, which has become a symbol of this revolt,” as-
Senussi said  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 