-- 
Libya's Tribal Revolt May Mean `Last Nail in Coffin' for Qaddafi's Regime

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-02-25T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/libya-s-tribal-revolt-may-mean-last-nail-in-coffin-for-qaddafi-s-regime.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  spent
most of his 41 year-regime trying to sideline the country’s
tribes. That may be something he’s now regretting as his power
unravels.  Akram al-Qarfalli, a senior member of the Warfalla tribe,
on Feb. 20 announced it was withdrawing support from Qaddafi,
saying “he is no longer a brother.” The Al-Zawiya tribe
threatened to halt the flow of oil if Qaddafi doesn’t stop
killing protesters. By Feb. 23 most tribes were united in their
opposition, says former interior minister, Abdul Fattah Younis.  “The tribes are powerful, especially outside urban
centers,” said Charles Gurdon, a Libya analyst and managing
director of the London-based Menas Associates political risk
consulting firm, in a phone interview. “The fact the majority
of them are now opposed to Qaddafi is probably the last nail in
the coffin.”  Tribal loyalties form the bedrock of Libyan society. While
Qaddafi says the patchwork of more than 100 tribes makes a slide
into civil war inevitable if he’s ousted, academics and
opposition members say they have been key in uniting Libyans
against the regime and will help shape the country’s political
future.  “If this movement continues to gain speed and it overturns
the regime, the tribes will try to create a new political
system,” said Ronald Bruce St. John, author of “A Historical
Dictionary of  Libya ,” in a telephone interview.  Biggest Tribe  Protests calling for the ouster of Qaddafi, now into a
second week, have been met with a brutal crackdown. Almost 300
people have died, according to  Human Rights Watch , that has also
driven  oil prices  to a 2 1/2-year high. Libya holds North
Africa’s largest oil reserves.  Of the 20 largest tribes with real political influence, the
Warfalla is the biggest and originates from the eastern region
now under rebel control, said Faraj Najem, author of “Tribe,
Islam and State in Libya.” It has about 1 million members,
compared with Libya’s population of 6.4 million. The Al-Zawiya
tribe stems from the south east. The Tuareg tribes in southern
Libya on Feb. 25 joined the call for a free democratic Libya.  Muhammad bin Sayyid Hasan as-Senussi, whose great-uncle
King Idris was overthrown by Qaddafi in 1969, urged all tribes
to continue to fight the Libyan leader in a Feb. 24 interview
with  Al Arabiya .  Outstanding Treaties  Tribal leaders are likely to support honoring all Libya’s
outstanding treaties, says Luca Venturi, a spokesman for the
Democratic Libya Information Bureau, a group of regime opponents
composed of bankers, lawyers and former diplomats.  “The tribes are a very significant part of the population
and stakeholders in the political and economic scenarios,” he
said.  Before Libya’s independence from  Italy  in 1951, the tribes
operated as autonomous political, economic, and military
entities. They lived mostly in the deserts and oases, with
loyalty extending in a hierarchy from immediate family through
to a tribal confederation.  Tribes are now no longer confined to specific regions as
marriages and city life has changed that. They spill over
borders into neighboring Egypt and  Tunisia , which has helped
those fighting mercenaries hired by Qaddafi, said Najem.  Islamic Theory  “The tribesmen during World War II did much like what has
been happening in the past few days, they were weeding out
mercenaries, supplying people with goods and shelter, and
providing a very sophisticated network so that people could
communicate and relay messages,” he said.  Qaddafi came to power with the backing of his Gadhadhfa
tribe, from central Libya. He suspended the constitution and
later outlined his political and economic philosophy in the
Green Book, which combines socialist and Islamic theories and
rejects parliamentary democracy and political parties.  The Libyan leader consolidated his grip with the help of
the Warfalla and the Maqariha, originally from the south west.
The two tribes later joined members of the Gadhadhfa in taking
key positions in Qaddafi’s armed forces, police and intelligence
services, according to Najem.  “Originally Qaddafi wanted to create a socialist economy
and a new society, not based on the kingdom of Libya,” Gurdon
said. “He recognized that tribes could be a threat and so the 
tribal structure was deliberately weakened.”  He undermined tribal leaders by ignoring them, strangling
the flow of money to their regions or through assassinations,
Gurdon said. This only changed in the last few years when
Qaddafi faced opposition to the idea of his second-eldest son,
Saif Al-Islam, taking over, he added.  Weaker Grip  Qaddafi is now scrambling to cobble together some support
among the tribes. The Gadhadhfa tribe still backs him and is
“afraid to find out what’s going to happen” if they withdraw
support, said Robert Baer, a former case officer for the Central
Intelligence Agency, in a phone interview.  On Feb. 20, he met in Tripoli with several tribal elders to
listen to their demands, Al Arabiya reported. Members of the
Awlad Ali tribe in western  Egypt , which traces its roots back to
Libya, has accused Qaddafi of trying to recruit members with
offers of money, the Doha-based broadcaster said.  Without Qaddafi’s leadership, the tribal country will
splinter and “there will be civil war,” his son, Saif, said in
a speech the day after the Warfalla withdrew its support.  For now, opposition groups and some analysts reject that
assertion, saying they will act as a cohesive rather than
anarchic force in any new Libya that emerges.  “It is not going to be like  Afghanistan  where the tribal
leaders are the only structure,” said Venturi. “But they will
be key players along with a rising educated, middle class of
professionals.”  -- With assistance from Maram Mazen in Cairo, Massoud A.
Derhally in  Beirut . Editors: John Fraher, Andrew Barden  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  