-- 
Libya's Eastern Rebels, Long-Time Qaddafi Foes, Driving Country's Revolt

-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-02-25T17:17:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/libya-s-eastern-rebels-long-time-qaddafi-foes-driving-country-s-revolt.html
Decades of poor treatment and
economic discrimination against Libyans in the country’s eastern
province of Cyrenaica provided the kindling for the revolt
against leader  Muammar Qaddafi , and the pro-democracy uprising
in neighboring  Egypt  provided the spark.  The rebellion began in Cyrenaica, a region endowed with oil
that was home to Libya’s first and only monarch, King Idris, who
ruled from independence in 1951 until he was toppled by Qaddafi,
then 27, in a 1969 military coup. Qaddafi then moved quickly to
favor his own tribe and the western region around Tripoli,
cutting the east’s share of  government spending .  After nursing resentments and attempting uprisings that
were crushed, anti-Qaddafi easterners now are now advancing
toward their goal of ending his 41-year-rule.  National Public
Radio  reported yesterday that opposition Libyans -- tribal
elders, professors, businessmen -- were forming a provisional
government in the eastern coastal city of al-Bayda.  “There’s always been a level of discontent in the east --
rightly so because they have been somewhat disadvantaged,”
Ronald Bruce St John, the author of several books on  Libya , said
in an interview. “And every time you had a revolt, the regime
cracked down harder. In time it became a cycle.”  Qaddafi deliberately pursued a policy to “keep the east
poor,” the U.S. Embassy in Tripoli wrote in a Feb. 15, 2008,
cable made public by the group WikiLeaks. Half of the men aged
18 to 34 in eastern Libya are unemployed, the cable said,
quoting a local source.  Keeping Poor Enough  “The situation reflects in part the Qadhafi regime’s
belief that if it keeps the east poor enough, it will be unable
to mount any serious political opposition,” said the cable,
using its preferred spelling of the leader’s name. It quoted a
proverb cited by the local source: “If you treat them like
dogs, they will follow you like dogs.”  Libya’s current unrest began as early as Feb. 15, when
locals in the eastern city of Benghazi demonstrated against the
arrest of activists representing families of prisoners shot by
Qaddafi’s forces in a 1996 protest at Abu Salim prison in
Tripoli, according to a Feb. 22 paper by London-based journalist
Camille Tawil for the  Jamestown Foundation , a Washington-based
policy group.  Prison Executions  The prisoners had halted their protest over living
conditions and detentions without trial, when security forces
opened fire, killing as many as 1,200, according to a report by
 Human Rights Watch . Families weren’t informed of the deaths
until 2001 -- without any details -- and Qaddafi didn’t publicly
acknowledge the killings until 2004, according to the group.
Harassment of the victims’ families, who have demanded an
accounting, had only recently eased, the New York-based rights
group said in  December .  In January, Benghazi residents protesting a lack of housing
took over a stalled government housing project, in one of the
earliest signs of anti-government action this year, the Egyptian
newspaper al-Ahram reported.  The east’s economic privation made it a source of recruits
for al-Qaeda and other Islamic extremist groups fighting U.S.
forces in  Iraq , the cable said, citing someone whose name was
blacked out of the WikiLeaks version.  The region’s imams tended to be more outspoken and the
tight-knit communities there were harder for Qaddafi’s regime to
police, the source told the U.S. diplomats. The State Department
spokesman,  Philip J. Crowley , said in an e-mailed message that
he wouldn’t confirm the authenticity of the cable.  Political Geography  With hundreds of miles of desert separating the main towns
of Libya’s three regions, Cyrenaica, Tripolitania and Fezzan, in
the Sahara at the southwest of the country, the regions had
little binding them together, St John said. Cyrenaica turned
toward Egypt, Tripolitania toward Tunisia and  Algeria , and the
Fezzan to trade and caravan routes in the Sahara.  “Qaddafi came from a tribe in the center part of the
country,” said St John. “One of the first things he and his
regime did was try to break down influence of people from
Cyrenaica allied with the king.”  Much of the tension between east and west results from
rivalries among Libya’s scores of tribes, and Qaddafi’s efforts
to divide the country’s riches and power among tribes that
supported him, said Edward Walker, a scholar at the Middle East
Institute in  Washington  and a former assistant secretary of
state for near eastern affairs.  ‘Two Different Countries’  “One of the problems with Libya is that it’s in many
respects two different countries,” Walker said in an interview.
Qaddafi’s own Qadhadhfa tribe, from the center of the country,
was opposed by the dozens of tribes in the east. “The elements
of this rift have been there for a long time,” he said.  Leaders of the large Warfalla tribe, which turned against
Qaddafi in a 1993 coup attempt, told al-Jazeera television Feb.
20 that Qaddafi should leave the country. The alleged coup
plotters, some linked to the Warfalla tribe, were arrested and
family members were forced to execute the officers in 1997 to
“cleanse” the tribe’s honor, according to Tawil.  “Libya as a country is a relatively new concept,” said
Elliott Abrams, a fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in
Washington and a former deputy national security adviser to
President  George W. Bush . “The period of Libya as a modern
nation really starts after World War II.”  Oil Output  Most of Libya’s proven oil and gas reserves lie in
Cyrenaica, one of three provinces that the 20th century colonial
power,  Italy , melded into the precursor of modern Libya. Oil and
gas account for 97 percent of Libya’s export earnings, one-
fourth of the country’s economic output, and 90 percent of
government revenue,  according  to the  International Monetary
Fund .  “Substantial revenues from the energy sector coupled with
a small population give Libya one of the highest per capita GDPs
in  Africa , but little of this income flows down to the lower
orders of society,” the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency  wrote 
in a public document analyzing Libya’s economy.  With $105 billion of reserves in the national treasury and
a population of about 6.5 million, Libya has ample funds to
support a transition from Qaddafi’s regime and ease any regional
tensions that may come from four decades of investment favoring
the Tripoli region, Abrams said in an interview.  “If you had a new government, it could actually adopt a
development plan that could buy years of stability,” Abrams
said.  The country is likely to hold together, even if the regions
assert themselves more strongly, and local tribes and religious
groups hold sway over their own areas, said St John.  National Feeling  “While regionalism has characterized the country for a
period of time, there a truly national feeling that’s developed
since independence and especially under Qaddafi,” St John said.  “If Qaddafi holds on for months, you may have a
provisional independent republic in the east, but in the long
run, I don’t see the country splitting up,” said Abrams.  Muhammad bin Sayyid Hassan as-Senussi, 48, a great-nephew
of King Idris, said the country’s tribes are united against
Qaddafi and there is no risk of civil war.  “The Libyan people and the tribes have proven they are
united,” as-Senussi said in a telephone interview from  London 
today. Talk of civil war, he said, has been “created by the
regime to spread fear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  