-- 
ICE’s New Rules May Reject CO2 Permits It Accepted in 2010

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-02-25T16:04:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/ice-s-new-rules-may-reject-co2-permits-that-were-accepted-in-2010.html
ICE Futures  Europe , the biggest
exchange for carbon trading, said it’s considering new rules
that may prevent accepting European Union emissions allowances
it would have taken for contract settlement last year.  The London-based bourse is seeking advice from members
through March 4 on which permits should be on a prohibited list,
it said yesterday. Since November 2010, about 4 million metric
tons of allowances have been reported stolen. They would be
valued at 61 million euros ($84 million) at today’s benchmark
prices. The December future is the market’s most-traded.  ICE Futures may not allow for settlement some permits this
year that it would have accepted in the December 2010 futures-
contract delivery, David Peniket, ICE Futures president, said
today in a phone interview. The change would respond to hacking
attacks that left permits missing in at least five nations and
closed spot markets on Jan. 20. While spot trading resumed Feb.
4 on BlueNext SA, ICE’s prompt markets remain closed.  A potential proposal to delay settlement of prompt
transactions for 48 hours “looks constructive,” Peniket said.
“We don’t think a delay of that kind would be a concern. It
depends on the reaction from the users.”  The EU will discuss introducing a 48-hour delay on delivery
of spot allowances to help protect the world’s biggest emissions
market from crime, a person with knowledge of the matter said
Feb. 23.  April Deadline  Peniket declined to comment on when prompt trading, known
as the daily futures market, may resume. Under EU rules, about
11,000 factories and power stations must have enough allowances
in their accounts on April 30 this year to match 2010 emissions,
which are verified by audit firms.  “We recognize that the end of April is a time by when
people would find a prompt market helpful,” he said.  Nor did he say how many tons of stolen allowances the
exchange has handled.  Holcim Ltd., a Swiss cement maker, said Nov. 30 it lost
earlier in the month 1.6 million tons of EU permits from a
Romanian account. There had been earlier thefts alleged in  Germany  and further hacking attacks last month in  Greece ,  Austria  and the  Czech Republic .  ICE, seeking to protect confidence in the market, also
proposed yesterday that permits delivered can come only from
accounts in the U.K., German or Dutch registries or potentially
others to be named later.  Stolen Allowances  ICE accepted delivery last year of allegedly stolen
allowances for settlement as long as traders held “unencumbered
title to assets transferred to the clearing house,” according
to a company  circular dated Dec. 6 .  BlueNext, the Paris exchange that competes with ICE in the
prompt market, handled 80,000 tons of spot transactions so far
today, compared with 4.2 million for ICE’s December future. The
ICE March 2011 future, which hadn’t traded today at of 3:40
p.m., had record open interest yesterday of 2.84 million tons.  “Subject to the consultation, we intend to publish a list
of those certificates we won’t take,” Peniket said. “We would
still value a move by member states or the commission to publish
their own lists if they are able to.” The commission “has the
relationship with the different registries,” which track
ownership of allowances around the region.  ICE is seeking the broadest possible feedback, Peniket
said. “Many participants we have talked to so far would like to
see as much filtering as possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  