-- 
IEA Says Saudis Boosted Oil Shipments After Libyan Shut-Ins

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-02-25T22:11:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/iea-says-saudis-boosted-oil-shipments-after-libyan-shut-ins-2-.html
The  International Energy Agency  said
today that increased oil supplies from Saudi Arabia are heading
for the  Mediterranean Sea  after the conflict in  Libya  shut in
more than half of the country’s production.  Violent clashes between opponents of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and forces loyal to him have reduced the nation’s oil
output by at least 850,000 barrels a day from 1.6 million before
the conflict, according to a  statement  on the website of the
Paris-based agency.  “Saudi Arabia has been actively offering extra crude
supplies to offset the lost Libyan barrels, with several buyers
expressing interest,” the IEA said.  More Saudi oil is “reportedly” flowing through the
kingdom’s 1,200-kilometer (750-mile) East-West pipeline from the
7 million-barrel-a-day Abqaiq processing facility in the eastern
part of the kingdom to the Red Sea port of Yanbu for shipment to
the Mediterranean, the agency said.  “We are aware of increased volumes from  Saudi Arabia  but
don’t know the exact amount,” Diane Munro, the IEA’s supply
analyst, said in a telephone interview from Paris today.  Saudi oil is generally higher in sulfur than Libyan, though
the kingdom’s Arab Super Light stream “is of similar quality,”
the IEA said. “The lower light product yields and higher sulfur
in most of these grades make them imperfect substitutes, but
this will be mitigated to some extent by the generally
increasing refinery flexibility seen in recent years.”  Replacement Oils  The “closest quality replacement” oils are from Algeria,
the North Sea, West Africa and the Caspian Sea, the agency said.
Of those,  North Sea  and Urals grades are the easiest short-haul
alternatives, it said.  Brent crude oil for April settlement rose 78 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $112.14 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Yesterday, it touched $119.79, the highest
price since Aug. 22, 2008. Brent gained 9.4 percent this week.  In its Feb. 10 monthly report, the IEA, which advises 28
nations on energy matters, estimated Saudi Arabia’s average
January crude production at 8.6 million barrels a day, unchanged
from December.  Commercial oil supplies in the industrialized nations of
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development are
“comfortable” with enough crude to cover 57.5 days of demand
as of the end of December, the IEA said. That’s above a five-
year average of 54.6 million.  An additional 1.6 billion barrels of public stockpiles,
covering 34 more days of demand, are also in place, it said.  Libyan Output Curtailed  “Almost all international  oil companies  operating in Libya
have reported partial or full shut-in of output,” the IEA said.
These companies account for about 72 percent of production.  The IEA said the status was “still unclear” for the
fields operated by the National Oil Corp., which accounts for
the remaining 28 percent of production.  Oil for April delivery gained 60 cents, or 0.6 percent, to
settle at $97.88 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Oil touched $103.41 yesterday, the highest intraday price since
Sept. 29, 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at   bbanker@bloomberg.net . 