-- 
India Predicts 9.25% Growth Next Year, Signals Lower Budget Gap

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-02-25T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/india-says-economy-may-grow-as-much-as-9-25-next-year-amid-inflation-risk.html
  India ’s  finance ministry  said
economic growth may accelerate to as much as 9.25 percent in the
next financial year, the fastest pace since 2008, and signaled a
cut in the budget deficit to help slow inflation.  “With continued growth momentum, the prospects for
sustaining and deepening the fiscal consolidation process remain
bright,” the annual Economic Survey prepared by advisers to
Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said yesterday. “Inflation is
clearly the dominant concern.” Mukherjee is due to unveil the
budget on Feb. 28 for the year starting April 1.  India needs to narrow the fiscal deficit alongside interest-
rate increases to curb inflation that has been “uncomfortably
high” this year, the ministry said. The gap in the nation’s
finances will be the highest in 2011 among the so-called BRIC
economies that include  Brazil ,  Russia , India and China, according
to the  International Monetary Fund .  “The budget will focus on reducing the fiscal deficit and
taming inflation,” said Jay Shankar, chief economist at Religare
Capital Markets Ltd. in Mumbai. “The government may unwind the
fiscal stimulus announced during the global financial crisis.”  Shankar expects Mukherjee to raise excise and service taxes,
both currently at 10 percent, by one percentage point.  Stocks Gain  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index rose 0.4 percent
in Mumbai yesterday. The rupee gained 0.3 percent to 45.32
against the dollar. The yield on the 8.13 percent bond due in
September 2022 was little changed at 8.13 percent.  India is the world’s fastest-growing major economy after
China, according to Bloomberg data.  China ’s economic growth may
be 9 percent this year, the People’s Daily reported on Feb. 25,
citing the State Council’s Development Research Center.  “The reduced fiscal deficits will permit greater
availability of credit to sustain growth, while tighter monetary
policy starts to transmit its impact in reducing inflation,” the
Indian finance ministry’s report said.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation rate averaged
9.4 percent in the nine months through December, which is the
most in the past decade, the report said. Inflation slowed to
8.23 percent in January, and “this trend may continue in the
next two months,” it said. The economy may expand 8.6 percent in
the year ending March 31, the government said Feb. 7.  ‘Unacceptable’ Inflation  “The present level of inflation is unacceptable,”  Kaushik Basu , the chief economic adviser in the finance ministry told
reporters in New Delhi yesterday. “We want to bring it down much
further.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government is under pressure
to contain price gains as inflation erodes the spending power of
the more than three-quarters of Indians the World Bank estimates
live on less than $2 a day.  Thousands of workers from across India rallied by trade
unions marched toward the country’s parliament in central New
Delhi on Feb. 23 protesting rising food prices, low wages and job
insecurity.  The  Reserve Bank  of India, which has raised its benchmark
repurchase rate seven times in the past year, estimated last
month that inflation will slow to 7 percent by March 31. The
repurchase rate is 6.5 percent. The central bank on Jan. 25
signaled it will raise borrowing costs further.  Anti-Inflation Stance  “Current growth and inflation trends warrant persistence
with an anti-inflationary monetary stance,” the finance ministry
said.  The state-controlled  Indian Railways  left passenger and
freight charges unchanged in its budget yesterday, a move Prime
Minister Singh said will help tackle inflation.  India’s federal  budget deficit  may narrow to 4.8 percent of
gross domestic product in the year ending March 31, less than the
earlier target of 5.5 percent of GDP, the finance ministry report
showed. The IMF estimates a deficit of 8.5 percent of GDP by
including the shortfall in state government budgets.  Mukherjee has room to maneuver in the budget because less
bonds are due for repayment and the government earned double the
targeted amount from the sale of phone licenses to companies
including Vodafone Group Plc in the previous year.  Eight of 12 economists in a Bloomberg News survey predict
policy makers will cut borrowing in the year starting April 1.
The finance ministry may have 4.3 trillion rupees ($95 billion)
in gross borrowing, about 5 percent less than planned this fiscal
year, CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets said.  Policy Aim  “The issue of maintaining an environment where the cost and
availability of credit is supportive of growth momentum, while
ensuring that inflation falls back to more comfortable target
levels, will be at the centre stage of policy consideration in
the near term,” according to the report.  The ministry said that the inflation outlook depends on food
prices and “demand-side pressures” in the economy.  “The domestic food price situation could be exacerbated by
the increase in global food prices because of dependency on
import of some food items like edible oil,” the report said.  Growth may accelerate as India’s savings and investment
rates “have turned around,” the report said.  The savings rate rose to 33.7 percent in the year ended
March 31, 2010, from 32.3 percent in the previous year, while the
investment rate climbed to 36.5 percent, the report showed.  “Since savings and investments now show a positive momentum
and the government is implementing a gradual exit from the
stimulus package, the savings and investment rates are likely to
rise further,” according to the report. “Hence, it is expected
that the economy’s growth will breach the 9 percent mark in 2011-
12.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  