-- 
India Cricket Stars Urge World Cup Ticket Rethink as Bangalore Fans Beaten

-- B y   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 
2011-02-25T22:13:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/india-cricket-stars-urge-world-cup-ticket-rethink-as-bangalore-fans-beaten.html
Indian cricket stars called for the
sport’s fans in the subcontinent to be given greater priority at
the  World Cup  after police beat people queuing for tickets in
Bangalore on Feb. 24.  “A ticket should be well within the reach of the common
man and without the fans Indian cricketers are a big zero,”
Bishan Singh Bedi, a former Indian skipper, said in an interview
yesterday. “I am quite up to my neck with this VIP culture and
the politicians throwing their weight around. I am absolutely
sick and tired of this.”  Two people were injured when police chased fans waiting to
buy tickets for the  India-England  match to be played on Feb. 27,
Uday Shankar, a police spokesman in Bangalore, said by phone.
Police started caning fans when they didn’t heed orders to form
a queue at ticket counters, he said.  About 7,000 tickets were on sale Feb. 24 for the 45,000
seats at the Chinnaswami stadium, Karnataka State Cricket
Association’s media manager, S. Muralidhar, said by phone.  Ratnakar Shetty, tournament director and chief
administrative officer of the  Board of Control for Cricket in
India , said contractual obligations led to a shortage of tickets
and the administration couldn’t do much, according to a  report 
in the Economic Times newspaper.  “Why do you want to disperse the crowd?” Bedi said
yesterday by phone. “They are not into any hooliganism. They
just went there to buy a ticket. If the numbers were too big
they should have done something about it.”  6-Week Battle  The  International Cricket Council  has written to the
country’s sports body urging it to sort out ticketing issues in
the world championship matches being held in India,  Sri Lanka 
and  Bangladesh  over six weeks, Press Trust of  India  reported Feb.
24. Phone calls to James Fitzgerald, media and communications
manager of the ICC, were not answered.  “It’s the local flavor that adds to the cricket,” said
spinner Venkatapathy Raju, who played 28 Test matches for India.
“It is they who bring in the cheer and the noise. If one gives
only 7,000 tickets for them for a match that is really nothing.
We should aim for at least 20,000 tickets,” Raju said. “And
when they come in hope of getting a ticket they should not be
beaten up.”  India won the World Cup, in which teams play a one-day
format of the game, in 1983, while  Australia  have won the
previous three competitions. The final match of the tournament
is scheduled to be played on April 2 in Mumbai.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Jay Shankar in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell in Mumbai at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  