-- 
India's Nifty Index Futures Gain Following Biggest Stock Slump Since 2009

-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 
2011-02-25T01:50:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/india-s-nifty-index-futures-gain-following-biggest-stock-slump-since-2009.html
Indian  stock futures  in  Singapore 
rose, signaling gains for the country’s equities, following the
biggest share-price declines since 2009 amid concerns of
accelerating inflation.  March futures on the S&P CNX Nifty Index advanced 0.5
percent to 5,314 as of 9:38 a.m. Singapore time. The stock gauge
slid 3.2 percent to 5,262.7 yesterday on India’s National Stock
Exchange, the biggest drop since August 2009. The Bank of New
York Mellon India ADR Index, which tracks the country’s American
depositary receipts, declined 1.4 percent to 1,178.35 yesterday,
the lowest level since Feb. 10.  Oil has surged 13 percent this week and touched the highest
in 29 months in New York yesterday before retreating as Libya’s
violent uprising cut supplies from  Africa ’s third-biggest
producer. India, which imports almost 75 percent of its oil
consumption, reported yesterday that food inflation accelerated
for the first time in three weeks.  “If you keep the event-risk aside, we believe valuations
are becoming attractive for a patient long-term investor,”
Navneet Munot, chief investment officer at Mumbai-based SBI
Funds Management Pvt., a unit of India’s biggest lender, said.
“We will look to deploy more cash if there is another 5 percent
to 7 percent correction in the markets.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, India’s domestic
benchmark gauge, slid 3 percent yesterday to 17,632.41, the
biggest drop since Nov. 3, 2009. The gauge’s companies are
valued an average 16.5 times estimated earnings, down from last
year’s high of about 21.5 times in March, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The average ratio for stocks in the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index is 11.1. times.  Stock Outflows  The Sensex has lost 14 percent this year, making it the
world’s third-worst performer after Egypt and  Tunisia . The MSCI
Emerging Markets Index sank 0.8 percent yesterday, extending its
drop this year to 5.6 percent.  Overseas investors have pulled a net 66.1 billion rupees
($1.4 billion) out of Indian equities this year as inflation
quickened to the fastest pace in six years, according to data on
the  website  of the Securities and Exchange Board of India.  ADRs of  Tata Motors Ltd ., the nation’s biggest truckmaker,
sank 2.8 percent to $24. ICICI Bank Ltd., India’s second-biggest
lender, slid 2.4 percent to $42.90. Both companies’ domestic
shares slumped more than 5 percent yesterday.  The Bank of New York’s India ADR index fell as much as 2.3
percent yesterday after crude oil futures touched $103.41 a
barrel, the highest intraday price since Sept. 29, 2008.  Libyan Supplies  The ADRS recouped some losses as oil started to retreat,
falling 0.8 percent to settle at $97.28, after the U.S.,  Saudi
Arabia  and the  International Energy Agency  said they can
compensate for any disruption of Libyan shipments. Opponents of
Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi are consolidating control over the
oil-rich east while he clamped down on Tripoli, witnesses said.
Crude futures lost 0.1 percent to $97.22 in after-hours trading.  “India gets punished disproportionately more than most
emerging-market countries with high  oil prices  because of the
heavy import ratios,” said Vikas Pershad, the Chicago-based
chief executive officer of Veda Investments LLC, which owns
Indian ADRs including Tata Motors and ICICI Bank.  Inflation is picking up in India, where the  World Bank 
estimates more than three-quarters of the people live on less
than $2 a day. An index of wholesale farm-product prices rose
11.49 percent in the week ended Feb. 12 from a year earlier,
after climbing 11.05 percent the previous week, the commerce
ministry said yesterday.  Inflation Target  The “challenge” faced by the central bank is to curb
inflation without hurting economic growth that is essential to
lift living standards,  Duvvuri Subbarao , the  Reserve Bank  of  India ’s governor said in a speech yesterday in the eastern state
of Orissa.  Subbarao last month increased  interest rates  for the
seventh time since March to curb inflation that he expects to
accelerate to 7 percent by March 31. The central bank is aiming
for an inflation rate of 4 percent to 4.5 percent. The bank
urged the government to cut subsidies in its budget due Feb. 28
to curb consumer demand.  Higher fuel prices push up food costs by boosting transport
rates. That will worsen the “crazy jumble” of items including
erratic weather patterns and underproduction of staple foods
that are pushing up prices in developing  Asia , Mark Matthews, a
Singapore-based strategist at Macquarie Group Ltd., said in a
Bloomberg Television interview yesterday.  Thousands of workers from across India marched toward the
country’s parliament in  New Delhi  on Feb. 23 protesting rising
food costs, low wages and job insecurity.  “The sentiment broadly is negative, especially taking the
global scenario into account,” Chandresh Nigam, head of
investments at Axis Asset Management Co., with $1.1 billion in
assets, said in a phone interview. “There could be some
nervousness as well as some money movement away from risky
assets in this environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Camila Russo in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  