-- 
Minister Flaherty Says Canada Wants Special Treatment From U.S. Bank Law

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-02-25T19:51:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/minister-flaherty-says-canada-wants-special-treatment-from-u-s-bank-law.html
Canada is lobbying U.S. officials to
ease added costs from complying with a law aimed at catching
American tax cheats abroad, Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said.  “We would like to have, quite frankly, recognition of the
fact that Canada is obviously not a tax haven and that we are
not a country that restricts the flow of information,” Flaherty
said after a speech today in Halifax, Nova Scotia.  The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, known as FATCA, was
incorporated into jobs legislation enacted in March. The law
requires overseas financial companies for the first time to
identify their American customers to the  Internal Revenue
Service  and withhold 30 percent of U.S. interest and dividend
payments from account holders who provide inadequate information
to determine their U.S. status.  Flaherty said it appears the law would impose “a very
substantial administrative burden” on Canadian banks and
“would not accomplish the goal” of the legislation.  Other countries including the U.K. and  Switzerland  have
also asked the U.S. government to revisit the law. The
compliance costs could reach several billion dollars, according
to the European Banking Federation and Institute of
International Bankers.  The U.S. pushed for the rules after a case involving  UBS
AG , which settled U.S. government claims in 2009 that they
helped thousands of rich Americans hide their money offshore.  Barred from Markets  By the time the requirements take effect in January 2013,
each foreign institution must enter into an information-sharing
agreement with the IRS. Those that don’t will be effectively
barred from accessing U.S. markets.  Canadian banks have raised their concerns about the law
with the Canadian government, said Maura Drew-Lytle, director of
media relations at the Canadian Bankers Association.  We “are pleased with the government’s engagement and their
understanding of the complexity and many unworkable challenges”
of the law, Drew-Lytle said in an e-mailed statement. “We will
continue to work closely with the government in seeking
solutions with U.S. policy makers.”  In his earlier speech, Flaherty focused on his Conservative
government’s stimulus package that will end this year, and a
plan to balance the budget by 2015. Flaherty is due to present a
budget next month and needs the support of one opposition party
for it to pass and avoid an early election.    Canada  is now set for “steady” and not “dramatic”
economic growth, and businesses that have “a lot of cash” must
start investing more, Flaherty said.  ‘Step Up’  “It is imperative that the private sector step up to the
plate” as stimulus ends, he said.  The recent rise in crude  oil prices  may have a mixed impact
on Canada, where some regions export energy and others are large
consumers, Flaherty said.  Crude oil headed for its biggest weekly gain in two years
on concern the turmoil that has cut  Libya ’s output may spread to
other parts of the Middle East. Crude oil for April delivery
climbed 64 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $97.92 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange .  “I don’t think there is reason now to have any strong
concern about any long-term effects,” Flaherty said. “We will
have to watch to see whether there is any significant
interruption in supply, and if there is, whether that
interruption of supply is made up by others.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  