-- 
LinkedIn Service Is Restored in Beijing After `Jasmine' 24-Hour Disruption

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-25T13:56:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/linkedin-accessible-in-beijing-after-jasmine-disruption.html
LinkedIn Corp., operator of the
largest networking site for professionals, became accessible
again in Beijing after a disruption of more than 24 hours.  Service to the site resumed some time before 8 p.m. Beijing
time, according to Bill Bishop, an independent media consultant
and internet user in the nation’s capital. The service was
blocked as “part of a broader effort in China going on right
now, involving other sites as well,” Hani Durzy, a spokesman
for  Mountain View , California-based LinkedIn, said in an e-mail
earlier today.  The site went down one day after a user posted comments
saying that Tunisia’s Jasmine Revolution should spread to the
Asian nation that’s been ruled by the Communist Party since 1949.
The world’s largest Internet market by users has since 2009 shut
out sites such as those operated by Facebook Inc. and Twitter
Inc. that don’t comply with Chinese rules to self censor
information on politically sensitive subjects.  “Often, this is done as a sort of a warning signal -- sort
of a shot across the bow,” said Doug Tygar, professor of
computer science at the  University of California  at Berkeley.
“A portion of that is symbolic.”  A LinkedIn user identified as “Jasmine Z” set up the
discussion group to post opinions on whether the revolutions
that brought down the leaders of  Tunisia  and  Egypt  should spread
to China.  When the site came back up this evening, the discussion
group was still there, under the administration of a user now
identified as “Jasmine J.” E-mails sent to accounts associated
with Jasmine Z and Jasmine J did not receive a response.  ‘Jasmine Voice’  The problems accessing the site over the past day are
“likely” connected to the creation of the LinkedIn group,
Tygar said. Chinese citizens can use Internet services to work
around blocked sites, he said.  Li Wufeng, chief of the State Council Information Office
Internet Affairs Bureau, didn’t return calls today.  On Feb. 23, Jasmine Z set up the “Jasmine Voice”
discussion group to post opinions on the pro-democracy protests
currently spreading through the Middle East.  “After years of independent thinking, I am becoming a
critical dissent dying for democracy, freedom and justice in my
homeland,” Jasmine Z wrote in the first of three posts.  A second post said  China ’s Communist Party members fail to
“realize the crisis of the autocratic one-party system” and a
third post referred to the party as “a power and elite club.”  Oppressive Environments  Earlier this month, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
vowed the U.S. will step up support for global Internet freedom,
as citizens using social networking sites run by Facebook and
Twitter organize demonstrations spreading across the Mideast and
North Africa.  The U.S. will help “people in oppressive Internet
environments get around filters, stay one step ahead of the
censors, the hackers, and the thugs who beat them up or imprison
them for what they say online,” she said in a speech in  Washington .  U.S. Ambassador to China Jon Huntsman Jr. was filmed at a
protest in Beijing last week. The U.S. Embassy in a statement
said that Huntsman and his family were “passing through” the
shopping district and his presence was “purely coincidental.”  After a video of Huntsman at the event began to circulate
on the Internet, Huntsman’s Chinese name is no longer searchable
on micro blogs like Sina.com. A search on Sina’s micro blog
produces a Chinese message which translates as “According to
relevant laws, regulations and policies, the search results have
not been shown.”  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  