-- 
Minsheng Said to Seek About $4.6 Billion, Raising Target

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-25T07:10:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/minsheng-bank-said-to-seek-4-6-billion-in-share-bond-sale-above-target.html
China Minsheng Banking Corp., the
nation’s first non-state lender, aims to sell about 30 billion
yuan ($4.6 billion) of stock and debt, a person with knowledge
of the matter said.  The bank will raise 40 percent more than previously planned
by selling about 21 billion yuan of convertible bonds in
Shanghai and 9 billion yuan of shares in  Hong Kong , the person
said, declining to be identified before a public announcement.
The company’s board approved the plan today, the person said.  Minsheng Bank Chairman Dong Wenbiao is trying to bolster a
capital adequacy ratio that’s the second-lowest among nine
Chinese banks traded in Hong Kong. The lender scrapped a plan to
raise 21.5 billion yuan in a private placement in Shanghai
because of opposition from small shareholders, the person said.  “The new plan is more likely to be accepted by investors
and can sustain Minsheng’s growth for at least three years,”
said Li Wen, a Beijing-based analyst at Donghai Securities Co.
“Demand for convertible bonds, especially from fixed-income
funds, is quite strong.”  Shares of Minsheng Bank were suspended from trading today.
The stock closed at 5.09 yuan in  Shanghai  yesterday, about 10
percent below than its HK$6.72 price in Hong Kong. Minsheng
trades at 1.4 times estimated book value for 2010, trailing the
average 1.54 times for rivals listed in Hong Kong, data compiled
by Bloomberg dhow.  Broken Promise  The company’s proposed private placement in Shanghai would
have been priced at 4.57 yuan a share, 10 percent below
yesterday’s close. Minsheng changed its fundraising plan because
it can sell stock in Hong Kong more quickly, and demand for
convertible bonds in China is strong, the person said.  Li Limin, a Beijing-based press officer at Minsheng Bank,
declined to comment.  Dong, 53, may still risk the ire of investors as he reneges
on a promise made in November 2009, after the bank raised $3.9
billion in a public offering in Hong Kong, that Minsheng Bank
wouldn’t sell more equity for three years.  Minsheng Bank was forced to raise more money after
regulators told the lender to boost its capital ratio by two
percentage points, Shanghai Securities News reported Jan. 12,
citing Dong.  “If we don’t refinance, that means we are not obeying
orders, and then we won’t be able to open for business next
year,” the newspaper quoted Dong as saying.  Weaker Capital  Minsheng Bank’s capital adequacy ratio fell to 10.77
percent at the end of June from 10.83 percent six months earlier.
While that’s still above the regulatory minimum,  China  may raise
the ratio for lenders including Minsheng to as high as 13
percent when credit growth is deemed excessive, a person with
knowledge of the matter said last month.  The company’s stock has slumped 13 percent in Hong Kong
trading since the 2009 offering. In Shanghai, Minsheng declined
24 percent last year, compared with a 14 percent drop in the
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index.  The lender, which has about 460 outlets and 176 billion
yuan of assets, was founded in 1996 by pig-feed tycoon Liu Yonghao and some of China’s wealthiest businessmen. The bank has
boosted profit by an average 46 percent since 2007.  China’s banking regulator said this week it is drafting new
capital regulations based on the global Basel III agreement and
plans to announce them as soon as possible.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  