-- 
Iraq's Shiite Clerics Back Protests as Maliki Tells People to Stay at Home

-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-02-25T14:51:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/iraq-s-shiite-clerics-back-protests-as-maliki-says-stay-inside.html
  Iraq ’s senior Shiite Muslim clerics
affirmed the right to peaceful demonstrations as Prime Minister
Nuri al-Maliki told Iraqis to stay home after five people were
reported killed in clashes with security forces.  “Demonstrations on the streets of Iraq are taking place
because people are collectively saying that they want to be
heard,” Sheikh Ahmed Al-Safi told thousands of Muslims gathered
at Imam Hussein Square in the southern city of Karbala today.
“The constitution guarantees the right of protests and it is
the right of any person to protest peacefully.”  Al-Safi is a spokesman for Grand Ayatollah Ali Al Sistani,
Iraq’s top Shiite religious leader.  Rallies across Iraq calling for more accountability from
elected leaders and better services have intensified since the
start of the month, beginning before a wave of unrest swept
through North Africa and the Middle East. Five people were
killed in clashes today between security forces and protesters
in the northern city of Mosul,  Al Jazeera  said.  Al-Maliki yesterday ordered an indefinite curfew in  Baghdad 
and warned people not to participate in rallies planned for
today. While Iraqis have legitimate demands and their right to
protest is guaranteed, Islamists and Baathists will try to
instigate violence, he said.  Lawmakers earlier this week approved the 2011 budget and
diverted some funds that had been earmarked for fighter jets to
increase salaries and social programs for the poor.  ‘Impeded From Protests’  Regulations imposed last year have “effectively impeded
Iraqis from organizing lawful protests,” New York-based  Human
Rights Watch  said in a report. The rules require organizers to
get written approval from both the minister of interior and the
provincial governor before submitting an application to the
police not less than 72 hours before a planned event, HRW said.  Dozens of men wielding clubs and knives attacked about 50
protesters who had set up tents in Baghdad’s Tahrir Square on
Feb. 21, wounding at least 20, according to the HRW report. At
previous rallies in Baghdad,  Human Rights Watch  said it observed
members of the security forces intimidating protesters by
videotaping them and threatening to arrest them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 