-- 
Iraq Protesters Are Attacked While Police Stand By, HRW Says

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-02-25T10:16:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/iraq-protesters-are-attacked-while-police-stand-by-hrw-says.html
Peaceful rallies in  Iraq  to call for
an end to corruption and improved basic services were marred
this week when police stood by as armed assailants beat and
stabbed protesters, according to  a report  by Human Rights Watch.  Dozens of men wielding clubs and knives on Feb. 21 attacked
about 50 protesters who had set up tents in  Baghdad ’s Tahrir
Square, wounding at least 20, according to the report, issued by
the New York-based campaign group late yesterday. Witnesses told
the group the assailants talked to the police before the attack.  The protesters used the Internet, including social media
websites, to plan rallies across Iraq today, HRW said, a month
after a similar “Day of Anger” demonstration in  Egypt  led to
the Feb. 11 ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak . Five people were
killed today at a rally in the northern city of Mosul and there
were dozens of casualties, including some deaths, in al-Anbar
province, west of Baghdad, Al Arabiya television reported.  “Promises by Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki to allow
protests are meaningless when we see vicious attacks,” Joe Stork, deputy Middle East director at Human Rights Watch, said
in the report. “Iraqi authorities should hold police who
allowed this attack to happen accountable.”  Iraqi demonstrations calling for an end to corruption and
better services preceded the wave of unrest that has swept
through North Africa and the Middle East. In June, violent
protests over power shortages led to the resignation of the
electricity minister.  Five Previous Deaths  At least five people have died in previous protests since
Feb. 16, according to the report. Small demonstrations have
taken place in Iraq since the start of the month, including some
in the northern semi-autonomous region of Kurdistan. Armed men
have also targeted opposition groups and journalists, HRW said.    Human Rights Watch  said its workers saw “lacerations or
bruises on seven protesters” who took part the Feb. 21
demonstration in Baghdad. Witnesses’ testimony was consistent
with video images shot at the scene in the hours before the
attack, and of wounded protesters the next morning, it said.  At previous rallies in Baghdad, Human Rights Watch said, it
observed members of the security forces intimidating protesters
by videotaping them and threatening to arrest them, and in one
instance saying, “Now, we know who you are.”  Iraq’s constitution guarantees “freedom of assembly and
peaceful demonstration,” though regulations imposed last year
have “effectively impeded Iraqis from organizing lawful
protests,” HRW said. The regulations require organizers to get
written approval from both the minister of interior and the
provincial governor before submitting an application to the
relevant police department, not less than 72 hours before a
planned event, according to HRW.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 