-- 
ISE Wins Block Trade Battle With Rival Options Exchanges

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-02-25T23:22:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/ise-wins-block-trade-fight-with-floor-based-options-exchanges.html
The  International Securities
Exchange , operator of the biggest all-electronic options market
in the U.S., won a 20-month fight against rivals with trading
floors, convincing regulators to allow certain block trades
without requiring them to be shown to other traders.  The Securities and Exchange Commission  approved  the ISE’s
so-called qualified contingent cross, or QCC, proposal yesterday
over objections from  CBOE Holdings Inc . and NYSE Euronext, which
said the trades would harm the options market. New York-based
ISE is owned in part by  Deutsche Boerse AG , which said on Feb.
15 it would combine with  NYSE Euronext  to form the world’s
largest operator of securities and derivatives markets.  The ISE’s proposal comes as nine options exchanges battle
for market share in an increasingly competitive industry. Volume
last year rose 8 percent to 3.9 billion contracts, the eighth-
straight  annual record , according to the Chicago-based Options
Clearing Corp. The ISE, the third-largest exchange by volume,
had 19 percent of options last year. In 2009 it had 27 percent
and was the second-largest.  “It’s the first time since September 2009 that ISE is
going to be able to compete for these large crossing orders on a
level playing field with the floor-based exchanges,” said ISE
President and Chief Executive Officer Gary Katz in an interview.
“That’s why the floor-based exchanges have been so negative and
against this order.”  QCC Orders  The QCC orders will be available to customers on Feb. 28,
Katz said. He declined to comment on how this may affect ISE’s
share of trading in 2011.  The orders in question, proposed by the industry’s first
all-electronic exchange in June 2009 and later modified, are
multi-leg trades of related securities involving stock and
options with a minimum of 1,000 contracts. In these trades, the
price or execution of one component depends on the price or
execution of another.  Prearranged trades by broker-dealers are currently brought
for execution and potential price improvement to CBOE, Nasdaq
OMX PHLX, NYSE Amex or NYSE Arca, all of which operate floors.
Options trades processed by the Options Clearing Corp. must be
executed by an exchange. Unlike in options,  stock brokers  can
internalize orders -- trade within their walls -- as long as
they do it at the market’s best available price.  ‘We Are Disappointed’  “We are disappointed that ISE’s QCC proposal has been
approved,” CBOE Executive Vice Chairman Edward Tilly said in an
e-mailed statement. “We have long believed that there is
tremendous value to a marketplace that rewards the important
role of dedicated liquidity providers.” He said the exchange
will “monitor the changes in order routing stemming from this
approval” and decide whether to offer users a similar order.  SEC approval of QCC orders will allow a “huge segment” of
options orders to avoid being revealed in advance to the market,
the CBOE told the SEC in an Aug. 9  letter . Those orders would
move to the ISE’s QCC or another exchange’s version of that
order type, it said. Nasdaq OMX PHLX, operated by  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc ., called the QCC proposal a “step backwards for
investors.”  NYSE Euronext criticized the QCC order in an Oct. 21  letter 
as a “major departure from established market practice”
because it lets market participants avoid exposing the trading
interest to others who might improve the price. Allowing brokers
to execute 100 percent of an order is also a difference from the
40 percent limit the SEC has enforced in most cases, it said.  ‘Active Place’  “The floors are an active place and an important source of
liquidity,” NYSE Euronext told the SEC in the letter. “The
ability of a market maker to join a floor crowd plays a
significant role in preventing unfair or inefficient prices on
open-outcry crosses.”  ISE  told the SEC  on Aug. 25 its QCC order would enable it
to vie with floor-based exchanges and said the criticisms and
“delaying tactics” of competitors had no merit. The exchange
said its proposal was a way to compete against rivals operating
trading floors by giving its members a way to execute large
stock-option orders electronically.  “Floor-based exchanges oppose the QCC because it would
break the lock that they currently have on executing these
trades,” ISE said. “Floors accommodate these trades by
providing a market structure in which there is little or no
chance that members will break up the pre-arranged trade.”  Prearranged Orders  Susquehanna Financial Group LLP told the SEC on Oct. 22
that prearranged orders are usually brought to floor-based
venues because they can get executed without having the trade
broken up by market participants transacting against a portion
of the order. It agreed with ISE that floor-based exchanges
haven’t automated their rules for crosses to maintain their
advantage over electronic venues.  The  Bala Cynwyd , Pennsylvania-based firm also said the
ISE’s orders would make that exchange a “favorite destination
for brokers intent on executing stock-option orders at dubious
prices.” Other exchanges would likely submit “copycat
filings” to offer their own versions of QCC aimed at capturing
more volume, Susquehanna said.  Since its initial proposal, the ISE increased the minimum
number of options contracts in QCC trades to 1,000 from 500. It
also said QCC orders won’t be allowed if the ISE has a customer
buy or sell request at the same price.  Transparency  “It potentially could lead down the path of less
transparency in the options market in terms of orders are being
exposed on the marketplace,” said  Andy Nybo , principal and head
of derivatives at research firm Tabb Group LLC in New York. “If
it’s a paired order with a stock component, it can be executed
at the NBBO or better without being exposed for price
improvement in the options marketplace.” The NBBO refers to the
national best bid or offer.  Blocks involving more than 500 contracts account for about
25 percent of options volume, even though they’re 0.3 percent of
trades, Nybo said based on  Tabb Group  estimates. On CBOE, 36
percent of order volume in May 2010 came from buy or sell
requests of 1,000 contracts or more, according to the exchange.  The QCC orders aren’t new types of trades and don’t provide
opportunities for brokers to engage in practices that aren’t
already available to them, Katz said. Concerns that this allows
internalization in the options market for the first time are
misleading, he said.  ‘Competitive’ Issue  “This is not an internalization issue, this is a
competitive issue,” he said. “It allows ISE to deliver the
same functionality that exists today on the floors. We’re
pleased the SEC has done the analysis and come to the same
conclusion.”  The SEC trading and markets division approved the initial
ISE proposal in August 2009. The next month CBOE petitioned the
SEC to review that proposal, which the agency  granted  in
November 2009.  The regulator’s subsequent analysis of options trades in
August and September 2009 found that 12 percent of transactions
involving 2,000 or more contracts on the ISE were processed in a
single execution. Two floor-based  exchanges  processed 26 percent
and 29 percent of similar trades in single transactions. The
analysis supported ISE’s contention that larger orders are
broken up less frequently on floor-based exchanges, although it
didn’t confirm that position since the analyzed trades included
different types of large orders, the SEC said.  “It’s an example of how the options market is quickly
evolving as a result of regulatory changes and new rules and
trading protocols,” Nybo said. While the QCC order may
“enhance ISE’s position in larger transactions that are tied to
stock,” he said the impact on an exchange’s share of trading
will depend on the fees it charges and competition from rivals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  