-- 
Hitachi Construction May Build First Key Components in China

-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 
2011-02-25T08:51:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/hitachi-construction-may-shift-production-from-japan-to-china.html
Hitachi Construction Machinery Co.,
the world’s biggest maker of giant excavators, may build its
first plant to make key components in  China  as part of a drive
to get more of its parts from  Asia  outside Japan to counter a
stronger yen.  The company may raise the proportion of overseas-made
components and materials to two-thirds from 50 percent, Chief
Executive Officer Michijiro Kikawa said in an interview. The
Tokyo based company is considering adding the Chinese plant at
“early” stage and also sees India as a potential manufacturing
base for parts, he said.  “Until now we’ve followed a concept that key components
are developed and produced in Japan and they are supplied
globally,” Kikawa, 63, said Feb. 23 in the interview at the
company’s headquarters. “We won’t necessarily stick to Japan”
for less important key parts.  The shift underscores a move by companies ranging from
Panasonic Corp. to Nissan Motor Co. to choose China and  India  as
production sites as sustained gains in the yen erode the cost
competitiveness of Japan-made products. Kikawa expects industry
demand will exceed its January estimate of 220,000 excavators
this fiscal year to break a 2007 record and increase as much as
20 percent next year on growth in emerging nations.  Demand expansion has been “too fast,” exceeding Hitachi’s
ability to supply all machinery needed for customers, he said.
“We’re aggressively investing in expanding capacity as demand
will keep rising in coming years.”  Expansion in Asia  Hitachi will bring forward by a year, to the end of 2012, a
plan to nearly double capacity at its assembly plant in China to
30,000 units, Kikawa said. It will also boost global output
capacity by 20 percent to 25 percent by the end of September,
six months ahead of its earlier target, he said.  China has grown to account for half the industrywide sales
of excavators, the best-selling construction equipment, helped
by government incentives to construct road, railways and
buildings to sustain economic expansion. Japan, once the world’s
largest construction-machinery market, now makes up 6 percent,
according to data from Hitachi Construction Machinery.  Hitachi, Japan’s largest maker of construction equipment
after  Komatsu Ltd . and the world’s largest producer of large
mining excavators, rose 0.3 percent to 2,019 yen as of 3 p.m.
trading close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The stock has risen
3.8 percent this year. The benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average is
up 2.9 percent this year.  Kikawa said production of rollers used in excavator
caterpillar and swing bearings may move to Asian markets from
Japan, while engines, hydraulic valves and controllers must be
made in Japan so the industry can maintain its technological
edge over overseas rivals, Kikawa said.  Domestic Production  Japan’s shift in production bases comes as an aging
population damps the outlook for growth at home and the yen’s
gains erode its competitiveness. The government must take steps
to avoid hollowing out manufacturing in Japan, economist Naoki Iizuka said.  “While Japanese companies want to stay at home in a
patriotic spirit, they know they have to fight against rivals in
fast-growing markets,” said Iizuka, a senior economist at
Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. A shift overseas is a “minus”
for the economy, he said.  Komatsu Chief Executive Officer Kunio Noji said yesterday
the Japanese construction machinery manufacturers should
continue making key components in Japan, the market that
fostered the industry during the nation’s economic expansion
until 1990, to enable it to compete against global rivals.  “We should reward the market,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at   msuga@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  