-- 
Ivory Coast Clashes Spread to Political Capital Yamoussoukro, Three Killed

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 
2011-02-25T10:56:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/ivory-coast-clashes-spread-to-political-capital-yamoussoukro-three-killed.html
Post-election violence in  Ivory
Coast  spread to the political capital, Yamoussoukro, where at
least three people were killed yesterday in the country’s
escalating conflict.  “We heard a lot of gunfire, probably coming from the
security forces,” said Serge Kipre, a resident, by phone today.
He saw bodies of three people he described as “civilians,”
including two near a mosque in the city, which lies about 250
kilometers (155 miles) north of Abidjan, the commercial capital
and biggest city.  At least 315 people have been killed in violence that
followed  Ivory Coast ’s Nov. 28 election, according to the United
Nations. Security forces who remain loyal to  Laurent Gbagbo , the
incumbent president, have clashed with supporters of  Alassane Ouattara , the internationally recognized winner of the vote.
Gbagbo refuses to cede power to him, alleging electoral fraud.  Sustained machine-gun fire was heard for a fourth
consecutive night in the Abobo neighborhood of Abidjan, resident
Ahmed Sylla said by phone. “Scores of people are trying to leave
the neighborhood,” he said. Fighting yesterday centered around a
local military barracks, known as camp commando. Earlier in the
week clashes broke out between protesters and security forces in
at least three other neighborhoods.  In the western part of the country, at least 40,876 people
have been internally displaced, the  United Nations  said
yesterday, and nearly 40,000 have fled to neighboring Liberia.
Ethnic tensions have been exacerbated by the political crisis
and on Feb. 23 fighting between rebels that support Ouattara and
government troops broke out.  “The impact of the post-electoral crisis on civilian
populations is severe and goes beyond displacement,” said
Ndolamb Ngokwey, the UN’s humanitarian coordinator in the
country. “There is an urgent need from the conflicting parties
and international donors to support emergency aid programs,” he
said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 