-- 
J.C. Penney First-Quarter Profit Forecast Trails Estimates; Shares Decline

-- B y   M a t t h e w   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-02-25T21:20:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/j-c-penney-s-full-year-profit-forecast-exceeds-estimates-on-accessories.html
J.C. Penney Co. forecast first-
quarter profit that fell short of analysts’ projections as the
department-store chain shuts down its catalog unit and outlets.
The stock fell 6.5 percent, the most in six months.  Profit in this quarter will be as much as 26 cents a share,
excluding costs tied to borrowing and restructuring, the Plano,
Texas-based retailer said today in a statement. Analysts on
average estimate 31 cents, according to a Bloomberg survey.  J.C. Penney, the third-biggest department-store chain in
the U.S., said sales growth probably will slow once it gets rid
of the mail-order and outlet operations. The moves are part of
Chief Executive Officer Myron Ullman’s broader strategy to
improve results after  Bill Ackman  and  Steven Roth  became two of
its biggest investors last year.  Ackman, founder of Pershing Square Capital Management LP,
and Roth, chairman of  Vornado Realty Trust , joined the board
this month. Ullman had announced their appointment Jan. 24, the
same day he revealed his plans for reviving the business.  J.C. Penney declined $2.39 to $34.16 at 4:01 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading, the largest drop since
Aug. 5.  J.C. Penney forecast full-year profit of $2 to $2.10 a
share. That compares with the $1.81 average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Fourth-quarter net income rose 36 percent
to $271 million, or $1.13 a share, from $200 million, or 84
cents, a year earlier, the retailer said.  The retailer also plans to buy back as much as $900 million
worth of shares, which would amount to about 10 percent of its
shares outstanding, based on yesterday’s stock close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  