-- 
Japan to Spend 110 Billion Yen to Cut Rare Earth Usage

-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 
2011-02-25T08:19:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/japan-to-spend-110-billion-yen-to-cut-rare-earth-usage-2-.html
Japan’s government and more than 100
companies including Hitachi Metals Ltd. and  Toyota Motor Corp .
plan to spend 110 billion yen ($1.3 billion) on facilities to
reduce the nation’s reliance on rare earth imports.  The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry will put 33.1
billion yen toward the cost of 160 projects for 110 companies,
with the balance paid by the companies, the ministry said today
in a  statement .  Japan, the world’s largest rare-earth importer, is seeking
to cut rare-earth use by one-third, or 10,000 metric tons a year,
to reduce its reliance on Chinese supplies, the ministry said.
The nation is also stepping up efforts to invest in overseas
mines after China’s export restrictions increased tension
between the two nations last year.  “The framework will benefit Japanese industries, enabling
individual companies to cut the burden of costs and shorten the
term of development,” said Yasuhiro Matsumoto, an analyst at
Shinsei Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The government’s involvement
in a wide range of domestic industries will also likely increase
negotiation power with  China .”  China controls more than 95 percent of the world’s supply
of rare earths, a group of 17 chemically similar elements used
in hybrid cars, iPods and weapons.  The package “is based on the idea that the government will
give support to companies making efforts to secure rare-earth
supplies,” Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  told reporters in Tokyo.  Alternatives  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest seller of hybrid
autos, is developing an alternative motor for future models and
electric cars that doesn’t need rare-earth minerals. Toyota
engineers in Japan and the U.S. are working on a so-called
induction motor that’s lighter and more efficient than the
magnet-type motor now used in its Prius, company spokesman  John Hanson  said last month.  Intermetallics Co., Asahi Glass Co., Nissan Motor Co.,
Panasonic Corp. and Mitsui Mining & Smelting Co. are among other
companies receiving the subsidies, the statement said.  China’s rare earth exports to Japan rose more than sixfold
to 4,081 tons in December from a month earlier, according to a
Jan. 31 report released by Japan’s  Finance Ministry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 