-- 
Jerry Seinfeld Didn't Defame Author by Calling Her `Wacko,' Judge Rules

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-02-25T21:12:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/jerry-seinfeld-didn-t-defame-author-by-calling-her-wacky-judge-rules.html
Comedian Jerry Seinfeld didn’t
defame a cookbook author when he called her “wacko” and “a
nut job” on television, a New York state judge ruled.  Judge Marcy Friedman in  Manhattan  dismissed a lawsuit by
Missy Chase Lapine, author of “ The Sneaky Chef:  Simple
Strategies for Hiding Healthy Foods in Kids’ Favorite Meals,”
against Seinfeld and  News Corp .’s HarperCollins Publishers unit,
which she claims stole her ideas when it published a cookbook by
Seinfeld’s wife, Jessica.  “Seinfeld’s statements disparage Lapine’s claim of
plagiarism as false or baseless or, more colloquially, as
wacky,” Friedman wrote in a decision made public today. “As
statements of opinion about the lack of merit of plaintiff’s
claims, they are not actionable.”  A federal judge in 2009 dismissed Lapine’s trademark- and
copyright-infringement claims against Jessica Seinfeld’s book,
“Deceptively Delicious: Simple Secrets to Get Your Kids Eating
Good Food.” That ruling was upheld last year by the U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals in New York.  “Today’s decision is a complete victory for Jerry -- and
also a victory for the First Amendment and the right of
comedians to tell jokes,” Orin Snyder, a Gibson, Dunn &
Crutcher partner who represents the defendants, said in a
statement. Snyder said the ruling also confirms the earlier
court rulings that Jessica Seinfeld created the book on her own.  ‘Malicious Attack’  Chris Seeger, a lawyer for Lapine, didn’t return a voice-
mail message seeking comment.  Friedman threw out Lapine’s claim that  Jerry Seinfeld  used
a 2007 appearance on CBS’s Late Show with  David Letterman  “to
launch a malicious, premeditated and knowingly false and
defamatory attack.” She also dismissed Lapine’s claim that
Seinfeld made defamatory claims about Lapine’s mental health on
E! News.  “The court finds it inconceivable that a reasonable viewer
would have believed that Seinfeld’s statements were conveying
facts about Lapine,” Friedman said.  On the Letterman appearance, according to Friedman’s
ruling, Seinfeld summarized Lapine’s legal claim as: “You stole
my mushed-up carrots. You can’t put mushed-up carrots in a
casserole.”  “It’s vegetable plagiarism,” Seinfeld told Letterman.  HarperCollins Claims  Friedman also dismissed Lapine’s claims of
misappropriation, unfair competition and breach of implied
contract against HarperCollins, saying that Lapine’s book lacked
the novelty necessary to support her legal claims against the
publisher.  “Numerous other titles reflect the same ideas, tips, and
tricks that plaintiff claims were her own innovation,” Friedman
wrote. “The idea of hiding healthy ingredients in foods likely
to be accepted by children was, at best, a creative variation on
preexisting ideas.”  In the federal court case, the appeals court said the two
books weren’t “substantially similar” and that “the total
concept and feel of Deceptively Delicious is very different from
that of The Sneaky Chef.”  The case is Lapine v. Seinfeld, 150051/2010,  New York  State
Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Donald Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  