-- 
Jolie’s ‘Salt’ Named Riskiest Movie After Star Jumps Off Bridge

-- B y   A p r i l   L e e
-- 
2011-02-25T05:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/jolie-s-salt-named-riskiest-movie-after-star-jumps-off-bridge.html
“Salt” was the riskiest movie of
2010 to insure after star  Angelina Jolie  did her own stunts in
scenes involving weapons, fights and a leap off an overpass,
according to  Fireman’s Fund Insurance Co .  Jolie also rode a motorcycle in the film about a CIA agent
accused of being a Russian spy, earning “Salt” the designation
of hardest to insure, Fireman’s Fund said in a Feb. 11
statement. In one scene, Jolie, 35, is shown tiptoeing barefoot
on a narrow building ledge several stories high. Another scene
shows her leaping from a bridge onto the roof of a truck.  An injury to a film’s lead actor can shut down production
and force an insurance claim for costs of the delay. Insurers
may work with movie producers on safety efforts or even alter
production plans to reduce risks, and an underwriter is
typically on set to oversee dangerous stunts. Fireman’s Fund
said it provided insurance for  Sony Corp .’s “Salt.”  “Whenever an actor chooses to do their own stunts it
increases the film’s risk,” said Lauren Bailey, vice president
of the entertainment division of Fireman’s Fund, a unit of
Munich-based  Allianz SE .  “Delays can cost a production
millions of dollars if a cast member becomes injured and is
unable to work, which can cost up to $250,000 a day for a big-
budget film.”  Fireman’s Fund, based in Novato,  California , is the largest
insurer of Hollywood productions. It insured films including
“Inception,” “The  Social Network ” and “The Town.”  “Salt” is nominated for an Academy Award for sound
mixing, according to the  Oscars website . It had a production
budget of $110 million and took in $293.5 million from worldwide
ticket sales, according to  Box Office Mojo , a film-industry
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
April Lee in New York at 
 alee355@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  