-- 
Kirch Hasn’t Shown Loss in Deutsche Bank Case, Court Says

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-02-25T14:37:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/kirch-may-be-unable-to-claim-eu2-bln-from-deutsche-court-says.html
Businessman  Leo Kirch  hasn’t yet
shown he incurred 2 billion euros ($2.8 billion) in damages as a
result of his media group’s 2002 bankruptcy, which he claims was
the result of comments on the company’s creditworthiness by  Deutsche Bank AG ’s former Chief Executive Officer  Rolf Breuer ,
an appeals court said.  Kirch’s claim he lost the money when he was forced to sell
his stake in  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG  isn’t substantiated,
Presiding Judge Guido Kotschy said at a Munich court today,
adding the assessment was preliminary. Kirch may nevertheless be
able to win a declaratory judgment that Breuer and the bank
wronged him if evidence supports it, the judge said.  “The lower court that dismissed the case without taking
any evidence didn’t grasp the suit sufficiently,” said Kotschy.
“We need to take the evidence before we can decide the merit of
the claims.”  Kirch’s dispute with the Frankfurt-based bank stems from a
February 2002 Bloomberg television interview in which Breuer
said, “everything that you can read and hear” is that “the
financial sector isn’t prepared to provide further” loans or
equity to Kirch. Four months later Kirch Holding GmbH, which
owned a controlling stake in Formula One and a majority stake in
broadcaster ProSiebenSat.1, filed the country’s biggest
bankruptcy case since World War II.  Regrets  Breuer, 73, is being sued along with Deutsche Bank. When he
appeared in court today, he said he regrets the comments and
wouldn’t repeat them if in the same situation again. The
interviewer’s question about Kirch came as a surprise and Breuer
told the judges he thought declining to respond to them might
have been interpreted by the markets as a negative message.  “In hindsight, I have to say this was an accident,”
Breuer told the court. “But what I said was publicly known at
the time and true. I didn’t break any secret and I didn’t lie.”  An appearance by Kirch, 84, who was scheduled to testify
today, was canceled minutes before he was due to appear. His
lawyers said his medical condition prevented him from coming to
court. His testimony has been postponed to March 25. Another
court appearance in January was canceled due to Kirch’s health.  The Munich appeals court judges want to ask Kirch about
negotiations between his company’s units and Deutsche Bank.
Under German law, a plaintiff can make contractual claims if
such negotiations passed the point of informal talks.  Breuer Meeting  In 2001 and January 2002, Kirch had meetings with Breuer
and Michael Cohrs, former co-head of  investment banking  at the
lender. The parties are in dispute over what the talks covered.
Cohrs is also scheduled to testify March 25.  A declaratory judgment against Breuer and Deutsche Bank
would allow Kirch to collect damages of any future losses he
incurred. Kirch claims he is still losing money because his
groups’ insolvency proceedings are ongoing, making it too early
to assess the total damages.  Peter Heckel, a lawyer representing Breuer and the bank,
told reporters after the hearing that Kirch has never been able
to convince any court he took a loss related to the comments.  Three days ago Kirch lost a parallel case involving the
Printbeteiligungs unit, in which he claimed he was forced to
surrender in 2002 a 40 percent stake in  Axel Springer AG  that
he’d used as collateral for a loan. Kirch had sought 1.3 billion
euros in that suit.  The Federal Court of Justice,  Germany ’s highest civil court
ruled in 2006 that Breuer was wrong to question the condition of
Kirch’s group in the interview. While dismissing most of Kirch’s
case, the court said the Printbeteiligungs unit may be able to
seek compensation because it had a contract with Deutsche Bank.  The court hearing today’s case will also hear Kirch’s claim
that Deutsche Bank tried to force him to hire the bank as
adviser for the group’s restructuring, Kotschy said.  “If you see the February 2002 events, you cannot reject
the claim out of hand that they may have tried to bring Kirch
into a situation where he needed to accept the offer,” Kotschy
said. “It’s a least a possibility that needs to be examined.”  Today’s case is OLG Muenchen, 5 U 2472/09.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Dusseldorf Offc at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  