-- 
Kohn Says Inflation Won’t Reach 2 Percent for Many Years

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-02-25T18:43:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/kohn-says-inflation-won-t-rise-to-2-percent-pace-for-many-years.html
Former Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Donald Kohn  said that while forces slowing inflation will begin
to ease during the next few years, prices probably won’t begin
to rise at the Fed’s preferred 2 percent rate for many years.  “The output gap will close slowly over the next few
years” and “downward pressure” on inflation will “begin to
abate,” Kohn said today at the University of Chicago Booth
School of Business’s U.S.  Monetary Policy  Forum in New York.
Inflation will “slowly move up” to the central bank’s desired
level and it will “take several years to get there.”  The inflation gauge watched by the Fed, which excludes food
and energy costs, increased 0.7 percent in the 12 months through
December, the smallest advance since records began in 1959.
Central bank officials prefer inflation ranging from 1.6 percent
to 2 percent.  Kohn, 68, retired from the Fed in September and was a close
ally of Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his predecessor,  Alan Greenspan .  The labor markets have been putting “downward pressure”
on inflation and the financial markets don’t reflect the
“degree of inflation worry” that some critics of the Fed’s
policies have voiced, Kohn said.  The “huge increase” in commodity prices during the last
six months is mainly a result of imbalances between supply and
demand, Kohn said. Monetary policy has only played a “minor
role,” he said.  U.S. budget shortfalls also feed inflation concerns and
need to be addressed, Kohn said. “We would hear less about
inflation risk” in the U.S. if our national debt was “on a
more sustainable path,” he said.  When inflation eventually “threatens” the Fed’s goal of
about 2 percent, the central bank will need to withdraw its
record stimulus, Kohn said. The Fed will need to act “before
inflation moves up in a major way,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  