-- 
Naked Youth, Nylon Tights, Layer Cake Spice Up London Exhibits

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-02-25T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/naked-man-nylon-tights-layer-cake-spice-up-london-shows-martin-gayford.html
A flame burns out of a metal
bench, and at unscheduled intervals a naked young man appears
and sits at the other end of the seat.  This work by Roger Hiorns, “Untitled” (2005-2010) is
the most memorable item in “British Art Show 7” at the
 Hayward Gallery  in London. The undressed youth sees to that.  Don’t ask me what it means. You won’t get much help from
the catalog either (“it is within the uncomfortable
relationship between doubt and belief in our contemporary
present that Hiorns’s sculptures operate”). It may be a
metaphor for something, and raises interesting questions, such
as: If you were to buy “Untitled” (2005-2010) on the art
market, would the nude come with it, and if so, where would
you keep him?  The nude on the bench is a good metaphor for the whole
show: It’s striking to look at, and resistant to rational
explanation. Not that that’s bad. As such things go, British
Art Show 7 is rather good. It contains a large, rambling
selection of works, all contemporary and made in Britain.  Of these, some are, like the Hiorns piece, intriguing.
Spending too much time with some of the other works might
destroy the will to live. Emily Wardill’s “Sea Oak” (2008),
for example, consists of 51 minutes of blank film projection,
accompanied by interviews with members of a left-leaning
Californian think tank. That sounds like a metaphor too.  The selectors have cast their net widely. Among the 39
artists on show is Alasdair Gray, best known for his novels.
Several others, including Hiorns, Wolfgang Tillmans and Sarah Lucas have featured on  Turner Prize  shortlists. The rest will
be unknown, except to contemporary-art-spotting anorak types.  Gin and Eggs  On closer examination, the exhibits fall into three broad
subdivisions: old-fashioned painting, strange sculptural
objects and wacky narrative. In the last category, for
example, is a collection of drawings, texts and an
installation by Charles Avery about an imaginary, nameless
island, whose inhabitants eat gin-soaked eggs (“bitterly
disgusting, yet ruinously addictive”).  Among the paintings, Gray’s -- more like colored drawings
-- caught my eye. They are, as befits an author, in the idiom
of book illustrations and with a quirky, obsessive quality.
Lucas’s series of “NUDS,” fashioned from tan-colored nylon
tights, are outstanding in the weird-object department. They
succeed in looking seedy, verging on obscene, without
resembling anything identifiable. That’s good.  Chocolate Cake  Karla Black has works in both “British Art Show 7” and
“Watercolour” at  Tate Britain . Her “Brains Are Really
Everything” (2010), a cross between a ziggurat and a
chocolate layer cake made out of earth and soap among other
materials, is one of the more arresting 3-D pieces at the
Hayward.  But her “Opportunities for Girls” at Tate Britain, a
crumpled cellophane sheet coated with paint, toothpaste, hair
gel and shampoo, makes me think, “Stop, whoa! This show is
getting out of hand.” Fortunately, it comes right at the end.  You can see how this object got included. There is a
well-defined tradition of watercolor painting in Britain,
including great works by Turner, William Blake and others,
right up to the 20th century. It may have seemed predictable
just to corral a lot of that into a show. So the curators
extended the range to include the unexpected.  To an extent, this works. It’s good to see such items as
botanical illustrations, medieval miniatures and 17th-century
maps. At the other end of the time scale, though, the efforts
to make watercolor seem edgy and contemporary get frantic.  For the most part, this is a high-quality selection of
Blake, Turner, Cotman, Girtin and so on -- predictable maybe,
but that’s what most visitors will expect and enjoy.  “British Art Show 7” is at the  Hayward Gallery  in  London  through April 17. Information:
 http://www.haywardgallery.org.uk . “Watercolour” is at Tate
Britain through Aug. 21. Information:
 http://www.tate.org.uk/britain/ .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 