-- 
Nancy Kissel's Retrial for Murder Is Adjourned After Her Outburst in Court

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-02-25T10:09:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/nancy-kissel-s-retrial-for-murder-is-adjourned-after-her-outburst-in-court.html
  Nancy Kissel ’s retrial for the
murder of her Merrill Lynch & Co. banker husband was adjourned
today after she screamed repeatedly and said she could “see”
him while being cross-examined by the prosecution.  Judge Andrew Macrae called a recess before adjourning the
hearing an hour early. Kissel stood up as she wailed in the
direction of the jury before being restrained by three female
prison officers, and consoled by one of her lawyers Amanda
Clift-Matthews and her mother, Jean McGlothlin.  Prosecution lawyer  David Perry  was asking Kissel if she
lied about the state of her marriage or if her allegations of
abuse were lies. He showed her photos from a family vacation one
year before the killing, and asked whether she had been “acting
all the time.”  The Michigan-born mother of three took the stand earlier
this week and told jurors she had been physically and sexually
abused by  Robert Kissel  before she killed him on Nov. 2, 2003.  Perry put to Kissel that she hadn’t told anyone her husband
drank excessively or forced her to have anal sex until she was
charged with his murder in November 2003.  “There were things that my husband did that I knew weren’t
right but I compromised,” Kissel replied, sobbing. She
tearfully referred to an injury to her face that she couldn’t
tell anyone about, to which Perry said, “Mrs. Kissel, you
didn’t tell anyone because it was untrue.”  The defendant began to scream on the stand and ignored
Macrae’s attempts to address her.  ‘I Can See Him’  “I can see him. He’s on the floor,” Kissel told Clift-
Matthews, pointing.  The judge vacated the court and allowed Kissel’s mother and
lawyers to console her. He then ordered an adjournment until
Monday.  Prosecutors have rejected Kissel’s guilty plea to
manslaughter and allege she planned his drugging and bludgeoning
to death. Her defense has argued she suffered from mental
disorders and was provoked into the killing.  Kissel testified earlier today that on the night of the
killing, her husband told her he had filed for divorce, that he
had told lawyers there was something wrong with her and that
he’d take the children. She also said he had a baseball bat.  “He was leaning on it and tossing it up in the air.”
Kissel said she didn’t understand why he had the bat, and picked
up the lead ornament from the dining room before walking towards
him and into the bedroom.  She said that he then forcibly had anal sex with her,
during which she reached for the ornament and swung it backwards
to strike him in the forehead.  Her husband then said he was going to kill her, she told
the jury in response to questions from another of her lawyers  Edward Fitzgerald .  “I just kept swinging,” she said, without describing the
sequence of events in more detail.  The case is HKSAR v. Nancy Ann Kissel, HCCC55/2010 in  Hong
Kong ’s High Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  