-- 
Natural Gas Futures May Fall as Weather Warms, Survey Shows

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-02-25T20:21:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/natural-gas-futures-may-decline-as-weather-warms-survey-shows.html
Natural gas futures may decline next
week as moderating temperatures limit demand for the heating
fuel, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Nine of 22 analysts, or 41 percent, forecast that gas
futures will fall on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through
March 4. Eight, or 36 percent, said futures will rise and five
predicted that prices will stay the same. Last week, 42 percent
of participants said gas prices would drop.  Normal or above-normal temperatures are likely across most
of the continental U.S. from March 1 through March 5, according
to MDA Federal Inc.’s EarthSat Energy Weather in Rockville,  Maryland .  “Demand is decreasing as winter weather eases,” said Carl Neill, an energy consultant at Risk Management Inc. in Atlanta.
Gas futures may reach a seasonal low price “over the next few
weeks,” Neill said.  Natural gas for April delivery rose 9.9 cents, or 2.5
percent, to $4.005 per million British thermal units this week
on the New York exchange.  The low temperature in New York on March 4 may be 37
degrees Fahrenheit (6 Celsius), 5 degrees above normal,
according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania .
The low in  Chicago  may be 29, 2 degrees above normal.  About 52 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 48 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  8       9        5  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in  New York  at 
 Cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  