-- 
New Zealand May Seek More Recovery Help After Quake

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-02-26T05:32:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/new-zealand-may-seek-more-recovery-help-after-christchurch-quake.html
  New Zealand  may seek additional help
to find more than 200 missing people in Christchurch following a
6.3-magnitude earthquake, as search-and-rescue efforts in the
nation’s second-largest city enter a fifth day.  “We will be needing more help before this is over,”
Foreign Minister Murray McCully told reporters yesterday. “No
country can have on hand the sort of expert resources in the
area of urban search and rescue which would enable it to cope
with the scope of the quake we saw.”  About 500 search-and-rescue workers are operating in
Christchurch, including teams from  Australia , the U.S.,  Taiwan ,
Japan and  Singapore . A team of 10 rescuers from  China  and the
remainder of a 55-strong U.K. team joined the search yesterday,
according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs & Trade.  The death toll is at least 145 people and there are still
at least 200 people missing, Police Superintendent Dave Cliff
said today. Many foreigners were caught in the quake, including
students at an English-language school, McCully said.  “You’ve now got what is looking like a very significant
fatality toll,” Prime Minister John Key said in an interview
with  Television New Zealand  yesterday. “That is really
unnerving people and rightfully so.”  Rescue workers from Japan were helping in recovery efforts
at the Canterbury Television building, where a number of
Japanese students attended the King’s Education school.  Japan Team  “The team has worked really hard,” Hisashi Tokunaga,
Japan’s parliamentary vice minister for foreign affairs, told
Television New Zealand after arriving in Christchurch. “We
still have some hope that we are going to have the Japanese
people rescued.”  Twenty-one Chinese students are missing, with eight of the
unaccounted buried in the CTV building,  China Central Television 
reported earlier this week, citing local police. Officials
estimate that people from 20 countries are amongst the missing,
Television New Zealand reported, without saying where it got the
information.  “There are an awful lot of people around the world who are
deeply concerned about loved ones,” Cliff told reporters
yesterday. “Let them know where you are and that you’re safe.”  Aftershocks  Christchurch has been shaken by dozens of aftershocks since
the initial quake and may experience more temblors greater than
magnitude 5 in coming days, according to the Civil Defense
website. The tremors threaten to topple buildings already
weakened, prompting estimates that many central business
district structures need replacement.  “Its extensive, there’s no doubt about that,”  Gerry Brownlee , Canterbury Earthquake Recovery Minister told
Television New Zealand. “The expectation would be that for some
months all of the services that operate in the CBD will need to
relocate elsewhere.”  On the streets of Christchurch yesterday, piles of silt
forced up by a process where soil loses its strength after
violent shaking were stacked meters high awaiting collection.  “There may be four or five times as much silt on the
streets of Christchurch today as there was in September”,
Brendan Burns, a Labor Party parliamentarian who represents the
Christchurch Central electorate, said in an interview yesterday.  The death toll from the quake is the worst since the  Napier
earthquake  in 1931 that killed 256. This week’s quake came less
than six months after a 7-magnitude temblor rocked Christchurch
in the early morning of Sept. 4.  The earlier quake, in which no one was killed, caused
widespread damage to the city. The destruction and mounting
economic costs also follow the death of 29 miners after an
explosion at a  coal mine  at  Pike River  on New Zealand’s  South
Island  in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  