-- 
New Mexico Realtor Charged in $76 Million Ponzi Scheme

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-02-26T01:57:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/new-mexico-realtor-charged-in-76-million-ponzi-scheme.html
A New Mexico man who once headed the
state’s biggest independent residential brokerage was charged
with running a  Ponzi scheme  that caused more than $76 million in
investor losses, the Justice Department said.  Douglas F. Vaughan, 63, was accused of operating a
promissory note program marketed as a way of investing in his
real estate business from 2005 to 2010, according to a federal
indictment unsealed today in Albuquerque. About 600 investors
had money in the program when the scheme collapsed last year,
prosecutors said.  The company, the Vaughan Co. Realtors, was at one time New
Mexico’s largest independent residential brokerage, according to
the indictment. When it filed for bankruptcy in February 2010,
it was the third-biggest residential real estate brokerage in
the state, New Mexico Business Weekly reported.  “Vaughan allegedly misrepresented to investors their
guaranteed rate of return, the safety of their investments, and
even what it was they were investing in,” Kenneth Gonzales, the
U.S. Attorney for  Albuquerque , said in a statement. “People who
trusted Vaughan ended up losing a lot of money, in some cases,
their life savings.” The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued Vaughan in March in connection with the alleged
Ponzi scheme.  Amy Sirignano, a lawyer representing Vaughan, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment after regular business
hours.  Robert Gorence, an Albuquerque lawyer who withdrew from
representing Vaughan in the lawsuit, didn’t respond to a
telephone message. A voice-mail message left at Vaughan’s
telephone number also wasn’t returned.  Court Appearance  Vaughan made an initial appearance in federal court in
Albuquerque today and is being held pending an arraignment and a
detention hearing scheduled for Feb. 28, said Elizabeth M.
Martinez, a spokeswoman for  New Mexico ’s U.S. attorney, Kenneth J. Gonzales.  Vaughan’s company was incorporated in November 1972 and
Vaughan served as chairman, chief executive officer, president
and majority owner as well as the only member of the board of
directors, according to the indictment.  In about April 1993, Vaughan began accepting money in
exchange for interest-bearing promissory notes, the indictment
charged.  The notes were supposedly secured by a deed of trust that
included Vaughan’s personal bank accounts, and stock and real
estate holdings, according to the indictment. He paid referral
fees to people who sold, and relied on word-of-mouth from
existing investors to recruit relatives, friends and associates.  The proceeds subsidized operations of his company, which
wasn’t generating enough real estate-related revenue to sustain
itself, and to repay the interest and principal on earlier
investments, the indictment said.  Ferrari, Basketball League  Prosecutors said Vaughan also took more than $5.4 million
for personal expenses, including trips to  Las Vegas ,
construction of a mansion overlooking the  Tanoan Country Club ,
the purchase of a Ferrari automobile and an ownership interest
in a basketball league.  By 2005, the company was “insolvent” and the promissory
note program was its sole source of income, the indictment says.
Vaughan’s company had a cumulative net operating loss of more
than $54 million for the years 2004 to 2009.  Vaughan was charged with three counts of  wire fraud , 17
counts of mail fraud, five counts of money laundering and four
counts of false writing and documents. He faces as many as 20
years in prison on each fraud count, 10 years for each  money
laundering  count and five years for each false writing charge.  The indictment was unsealed this morning after Vaughan’s
arrest at a residence in Albuquerque’s  North Valley , the  Justice
Department  said.  The case is U.S. vs. Vaughan, 11-cr-00404, U.S. District
Court, District of New Mexico (Albuquerque).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  