-- 
New Crop of Governors to Commiserate Amid Unrest

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-02-25T13:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/new-crop-of-u-s-governors-to-commiserate-amid-unrest-at-home.html
  Ohio  Governor John Kasich, facing an
economic crisis not seen for decades, gave his constituents a
warning last month in his inaugural address: “Put on the seat
belt.”  The belts have been buckled, in Columbus and throughout the
U.S. This weekend, Kasich is joining his peers at a National
Governors Association meeting in  Washington  as states face
deficits that may total $125 billion in 2012, and protests have
erupted in Ohio,  Wisconsin ,  Indiana  and elsewhere after attempts
to limit collective-bargaining rights for public employees.  Labor groups plan a protest Feb. 27 against Wisconsin
Governor  Scott Walker  at the meeting “asking him to go home and
kill the bill,” the AFL-CIO said in an e-mail.  Walker may not be there. He doesn’t plan to attend as long
as 14 Democratic senators remain in  Illinois  to prevent a vote
on his union bill, Chris Schrimpf, a spokesman for Walker, said
in a telephone interview from Madison.  The weekend meeting allows the governors, especially the 29
new state chief executives, to compare notes, said Raymond C. Scheppach, executive director of the association. It’s the
largest number of new governors to attend the annual meeting, he
said.  “This really is their first meeting together,” Scheppach
said in a telephone interview Feb. 24.  The confab, which runs from tomorrow through Feb. 28,
includes a black-tie evening Feb. 27 at the White House with
governors and their spouses and President Barack Obama and first
lady  Michelle Obama . The next day, the governors meet with the
president and members of his cabinet.  Job Creation  Tomorrow’s opening session is focused on job creation with
the title, “Growing a Competitive State Economy.” It concludes
with remarks from Zhou Qiang, the party secretary of the Hunan
Provincial Committee in  China .  Sunday’s panels include discussions about education, public
finance and Medicaid. The meeting concludes with a speech from  Bill Gates , founder of  Microsoft Corp . and co-chairman of the
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.  Scheppach said he expects that through the weekend,
“budget cutting will be a fair amount of the conversation.”  ‘Dire Situation’  “We will never again have such an opportunity to reform
and correct the spending habits and processes that have brought
us to this dire situation,” South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley
said in her Jan. 19 State of the State address. “This year has
to be the year we make the tough-but-right decisions so that,
going forward, this process doesn’t hurt as much as it does
today.”  Besides the panel sessions, there will be several
“governors-only” meetings without reporters or staff present,
to enable them to get to know each other and talk about the
issues facing their states, Scheppach said.  Kasich and Walker in particular are becoming friends and
have been exchanging phone calls and e-mails in recent weeks as
the protests escalated in their respective states, said Rob
Nichols, a Kasich spokesman.  “A number of these governors he has developed a friendship
with because they are involved with similar circumstances,”
Nichols said in a telephone interview from Columbus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in New York at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  