-- 
New York City Asks Bankers to Plumb Parking Meters, Garages to Add Revenue

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-02-25T17:04:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/new-york-city-asks-bankers-to-plumb-parking-meters-garages-to-add-revenue.html
  New York  City officials are calling
on investment bankers to help find ways to extract more revenue
from city assets, including its parking meters and garages, real
estate and infrastructure, while reducing costs.  In a  request for expressions of interest  on its website,
the city  Economic Development Corp.  seeks ideas on how “to
develop new sources of revenue” and restrain costs, as
officials confront a projected deficit of almost $5 billion, or
6.8 percent, of an estimated $71.6 billion fiscal 2013 budget.  “We’re seeking a partner to help us reduce costs or bring
in revenue and one area is parking meters,” said  Marc LaVorgna ,
a spokesman for New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg .  Cities around the U.S. have begun to view their street
curbs as assets. They’re installing meters, sometimes equipped
with devices that adjust rates higher during times of peak
demand, to deal with the pressure of rising labor costs and
insufficient revenue.    New York City ’s treasury reaped more than $140 million in
2010 from its 49,989 parking meters and 48,854 “muni-meters,”
which issue a receipt to be placed on the dashboard, according to
the city’s Management and Budget office. The city collected
about $575 million in parking violation  fines  last year, the
budget office estimated.  ‘Nothing Magical’  “We are not going to sell assets in return for money that
we spend on balancing the budget,” Bloomberg said today during
his weekly appearance on WOR radio. “We’re not going to turn
over the right to set parking rates or set the fines or that
sort of thing, but installing and maintaining equipment, there’s
nothing magical about that.”  Bloomberg’s budget for 2012 includes increased rates of $3
an hour from $2.50 in commercial zones, and $1 an hour from 75-
cents in residential areas above 86th Street in  Manhattan  and
the city’s four other boroughs. The plan calls for generating
revenue by converting six city-owned vacant lots into
“ privately run parking lots .”  Parking in most parts of  Chicago  costs $1.50 an hour, with
the exception of the central business district outside the Loop,
where motorists pay $3 an hour and inside the Loop where it
costs $5 per hour from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m., and $2.50 at other
hours.  Chicago Lesson  LaVorgna said New York City officials want to avoid
repeating the experience of Chicago, where drivers will pay a
Morgan Stanley-led partnership at least $11.6 billion to park at
city meters over the next 75 years, 10 times what Mayor Richard Daley got when he leased the system to investors in 2008. The
city gave up billions of dollars in revenue when it leased its
36,000 meters, the third-largest U.S. system, for $1.15 billion,
Alderman Scott Waguespack said in an August interview.  In its request, New York says it wants bankers and
financial firms to offer ideas “to enhance the efficiency of
services the city provides” and to “develop new sources of
revenue and/or relief for the city from future operating and
capital obligations.”  The document cites “city parking assets including on-
street meters and off-street lots and garages,” real estate,
“including management, revenue generation and use proposals for
new construction and existing city assets,” and infrastructure
such as transportation facilities.  The request is “deliberately vague” to attract the widest
variety of proposals, LaVorgna said.  The document gives applicants until March 2 to request more
information. Proposals must be submitted by March 11.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 