-- 
NFL Establishes Standardized Sideline Tests to Diagnose Player Concussion

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-02-25T17:15:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/nfl-establishes-standardized-tests-for-judging-concussions-on-sidelines.html
The  National Football League  has
told team doctors and trainers to use standardized sideline
tests when they suspect a player has sustained a concussion.  The new test rules will be used by all teams before sending
a player back onto the field, the league said today in a news
release.  “It does not replace more sophisticated tests, and does
not replace the individualized assessment by the clinician of
the athlete, but does provide the medical staff with a
standardized protocol to evaluate for head injury,” the NFL
said.  The tests are based on work done in 2008 by the Concussion
in Sport group in Zurich,  Switzerland , and include
“modifications specific to professional football,” according
to the league.  The tests include a set of questions, an examination of the
player’s eye movement, hands-on physical checks and a balance
test.  “This tool provides a standardized format for evaluating
head injury that medical staff can use on the sideline,” Margot
Putukian, chairwoman of the NFL’s Return-to-Play Subcommittee
and head team physician for  Princeton University , said in the
statement. “It incorporates the most important aspects of a
focused exam, so that injury is identified and athletes with
concussion and more serious head and spine injury can be removed
from play.”  The NFL has sought to initiate policies giving teams better
information before they allow players to return to the field.  Inconsistent Rules  During the last season, there was no consistency in the
questions used by medical personnel in their examinations of
players.  The league has been looking at possible changes to rules
and equipment to reduce head injuries.  In November 2009, the U.S. House Judiciary Committee held a
hearing on head injuries in football, with Commissioner Roger Goodell and players union Executive Director  DeMaurice Smith 
among those testifying. Smith told Congress that the NFL ignored
a decade of research showing a connection between on-field
injuries and post-career mental illness.  The following month, Goodell told the teams that players
had to remain on the sidelines if they couldn’t remember plays,
had memory gaps or suffered from persistent headaches or
dizziness. He also told clubs to hire independent neurologists
and obtain their agreement with team doctors’ decisions to allow
a player to return to action after a concussion.  In October, the NFL began suspending players and issuing
fines for flagrant hits that endanger safety, particularly those
to the head.  Former Chicago Bears safety Dave Duerson died Feb. 17 at
age 50 from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the chest.
According to his family, he chose that method so that his brain
could be donated for research into chronic traumatic
encephalopathy, a condition linked to athletes who have
sustained repeated concussions.  Duerson retired in 1993 after playing 11 seasons in the
NFL. He played on two Super Bowl-winning teams, with the Bears
and  New York Giants .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  