-- 
Nippon Building to Buy 60% of Mitsubishi Heavy Headquarters

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 
2011-02-25T07:14:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/nippon-building-investor-to-buy-mitsubishi-heavy-office-for-738-million.html
  Nippon Building Fund Inc ., Japan’s
largest real estate investment trust, and a Japanese investor
will pay 60.5 billion yen ($738 million) to buy and lease back  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd .’s Tokyo headquarters building.  Nippon Building will take a 60 percent stake and the
unidentified institutional investor will hold the remaining 40
percent, Mitsubishi Heavy, Japan’s largest heavy-machinery maker,
and Nippon Building said in separate statements today. The
companies expect to close the deal in September.  The acquisition, the largest by a Japanese REIT since April,
comes more than two years after Mitsubishi Heavy failed to sell
the building for about $800 million. Nippon Building’s purchase
may signal that the Bank of Japan’s program to buy Japanese REIT
shares is starting to boost the local commercial  property market ,
according to Mizuho Securities Co.  “This is a large-scale transaction following the
improvement of financing by Japanese REITs,” said Mikio Namiki,
an analyst at Mizuho Securities in Tokyo. “I expect such large
deals made by J-REITs to continue.”  The central bank in December began allocating 50 billion
yen of an asset-buying fund to purchase shares of J-REITS with
credit ratings of AA or higher. Today’s deal would be the
largest after  Mori Trust Sogo REIT Inc . bought a 50 percent
stake in an office building that houses the Conrad Tokyo hotel
last April for 110 billion yen.  Mitsubishi Heavy rose 0.9 percent to 342 yen and Nippon
Building gained 0.1 percent to 852,000 yen at the 3 p.m. close
on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The Bank of Japan’s economic
stimulus plan unveiled on Oct. 5 to end a decade of deflation
has helped boost the Tokyo Stock Exchange REIT Index 14 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  