-- 
Obama Makes Split From Defense of Marriage Law: Ann Woolner

-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-02-25T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/obama-makes-split-from-defense-of-marriage-law-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
It’s hard to beat the federal
Defense of Marriage  Act  for an Orwellian-named law. The Attack
on Marriage Act would be more like it.  To a widow in New York, the statute means that the  Internal
Revenue Service  considers her a pal, not the lawfully wedded
wife of her now-deceased partner of 44 years. New York
recognizes their Canadian marriage license, but federal law
doesn’t. So the widow owes the U.S. government $350,000 in
estate taxes, though she’d owe nothing if she had been a man.  Likewise, a retired employee of the U.S. Naval Intelligence
Office was barred from enrolling her wife in the federal
government’s health plan, she says in a lawsuit. The two had
been legally married in  Connecticut , but the Defense of Marriage
Act considers the nuptials invalid.  That law says only marriages between one man and one woman
are considered legal by the U.S. government, no matter what
state law says. Five states and the  District of Columbia  now
allow same sex marriages, but the federal government refuses to
recognize them.  Unfair and demeaning to millions of taxpayers, the U.S.
statute has been declared unconstitutional by a federal judge in  Massachusetts .  It’s possible to abhor that law and still question the
wisdom of Attorney General  Eric Holder ’s  announcement  this week
that his department will no longer defend it in court, an
astonishing development. For the past two years, the
administration has defended it.  ‘Responsibility to Defend’  The Constitution says the president must “take care that
the laws be faithfully executed.” Under popular interpretation
of that clause, that means the president should defend federal
statutes in court. Justice Department policy says government
lawyers will do that when there are reasonable arguments to back
them up.  Republicans seem to think that means government lawyers
must always argue in favor of whatever Congress passes.  “The  Justice Department  has a responsibility to defend the
laws passed by Congress regardless of the personal political
views of the president or the attorney general,” House
Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith said in a  statement .
The Texas Republican called it a “politicization” of the
Justice Department “when the personal views of the president
override the government’s duty to defend the law of the land.”  And yet there are times, however rare, when previous
administrations have decided they couldn’t defend a law that
Congress passed, with or without reasonable arguments.  First President Bush  Under President George H. W. Bush, the Justice Department
in 1990 filed a Supreme Court brief calling unconstitutional a
law that essentially gave regulatory preference to minority-
owned broadcast stations.  Six years later, President  Bill Clinton ’s administration
refused to defend a provision requiring the military to
discharge most members of the armed services who were HIV-
positive.  These are two of many examples.  Republicans who now complain the Justice Department is
failing in its constitutional duty to defend federal laws might
heed the words of one of the conservative movements best-known
scholars,  Robert Bork , former appeals court judge and solicitor
general under Presidents  Richard Nixon  and  Gerald Ford .  When called on to defend a campaign finance law before the
Supreme Court, Solicitor General Bork filed seemingly dueling
briefs and was slammed by critics for not simply defending the
law.  ‘Profound Obligations’  He responded that it would be a “betrayal of profound
obligations” to the  Supreme Court  “to take the simplistic
notion that whatever Congress enacts we will defend.” (He said
so in a letter quoted in an  essay  by a later solicitor general,
Seth Waxman.)  As for the Obama administration’s refusal to defend the
anti-gay marriage law, Holder and Obama would have been better
off reaching that conclusion two years ago. Their timing prompts
critics to complain the decision’s political, not legal.  No doubt there’s some truth to that, as there usually is
when presidents decide to balk at upholding a law.  But court rulings on gay rights issues over the past two
years gives them more ground on which to claim the law’s
unconstitutional.  And two new cases, filed by the widow in  New York  and the
retired Navy employee in Connecticut, sparked a new review of
the law, Holder said. To defend the act, the department would
have had to have filed briefs by March 11.  Key to the whole discussion is a technical legal question,
so stay with me here.  Compelling Interests  Before deciding whether there’s a reasonable argument they
can use to support a law, government lawyers have to know how
high the standard should be. To defend a law that discriminates
against a protected class of people, the Justice Department must
show a compelling government interest that trumps what would
otherwise be  unconstitutional  treatment of a group of people.  But if those constitutional protections don’t apply to this
particular group of people -- and there are tests for deciding
that -- it’s enough to show that the law has a rational basis.
It doesn’t have to be based on compelling government interests.
It just can’t be arbitrary.  In Defense of Marriage cases, no court has required the
tougher, compelling interest test to judge the law’s
constitutionality, and the Obama administration has defended it
using the lower threshold.  What Holder and Obama have now decided is that the tougher
scrutiny should apply, given the history of discrimination
against gays, the building consensus that sexual orientation
can’t be changed and that it doesn’t make gays different in any
way that matters.  And there simply is no interest compelling enough to
overcome the discriminatory aspects of the law, Holder said.  Leaving defending the law up to Congress is an extreme act
by Holder and Obama, especially after they’ve been defending it
for two years.  But then, this is an extreme law.    Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  