-- 
Obama Aides Say Social Security No Risk to U.S. Finances Amid Deficit Spat

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-02-25T19:45:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/obama-aides-say-social-security-no-risk-to-u-s-finances-amid-deficit-spat.html
Obama administration officials are
rejecting the idea of making major changes to Social Security as
part of a debate over reining in the national debt, a stance
that’s drawing protests from deficit-cutting advocates.  White House Budget Director Jack Lew and Jason Furman,
deputy director of President Barack Obama’s National Economic
Council, both stressed this week that Social Security isn’t
facing an immediate funding crisis and should be viewed
separately from moves to reduce the federal  budget deficit .  Their comments go further than Obama did in his Jan. 25
State of the Union address in erecting a fence around Social
Security, signaling a desire to delay any action on the federal
retirement program.  “They’ve dumped a big pot of ice cold water on any embers
of Social Security reform,” said Chuck Blahous, a Social
Security public trustee who headed a commission on the program
empaneled by President  George W. Bush .  The White House position may also jeopardize a broader
bipartisan effort to tackle the national debt. The math for a
Social Security fix, which would blend benefit cuts and tax
increases for future retirees, could be relatively simple.
That’s why some Republicans say it could be a starting point for
a bipartisan consensus on a debt-reduction bill being negotiated
by a group of six senators.  Shutdown Looms  With polls showing that public opposition to benefit
reductions runs deep and cuts across parties, few Republicans or
Democrats will want to attach their names to a bill that stands
little chance of being signed by the president.  The debate over Social Security is taking place as
Republicans and Democrats in Congress are deadlocked over
spending cuts with a U.S. government shutdown looming. The
Republican drive to lower spending will then turn to a debt-
reduction package as the U.S. approaches its authorized debt
ceiling of $14.3 trillion within a few months.  Separately, aides to the group of six senators working on a
plan to address the deficit confirmed that talks are focused
more on tackling the rate of growth in Medicare spending than
Social Security’s long-range shortfall.  Adequate Resources  In a Feb. 22 editorial in  USA Today , Lew said the
retirement program’s trust fund will have adequate resources to
pay full benefits to retirees for the next 26 years, that the
nation’s debt “problem is not Social Security” and that
strengthening the program should be handled separately.  Speaking to NDN, a Democratic-leaning advocacy group,
Furman said talk of a Social Security overhaul “is not one you
care about” if “you are worried about our long-run fiscal
future.” He said the program is “the bedrock of retirement
security” and solvent for another 26 years, until 2037.  The Lew editorial and Furman comments were buttressed by
comments last weekend by the Senate’s No. 2 Democrat,  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , who served on Obama’s deficit commission.  “I was stunned, I really thought we were making progress
across the board,” Senator  Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina
Republican, said of the comments. “It seems to me to be the one
place where you could actually have a breakthrough. It’s so much
easier to do than Medicare.”  Obama’s Call  Experts say ensuring Social Security’s solvency may be at
least technically simpler than dealing with Medicare, the
insurance program for the elderly. For instance, the Social
Security Administration  projects  that 30 percent of the
shortfall over the next 75 years could be prevented by raising
the maximum earnings subject to payroll tax by 2 percent a year
until 90 percent of all earnings are covered.  In his State of the Union speech, Obama called for a
“bipartisan solution” to strengthen Social Security “without
slashing benefits for future generations.”  Durbin, who last year called an increase in the  retirement
age  hardly “radical” and voted for a plan that would also
reduce annual cost-of-living gains for all recipients and trim
benefits for the wealthy, took a different tack last weekend.  On NBC’s “Meet the Press” program on Feb. 20, Durbin said
Social Security doesn’t add “one penny” to the deficit. He
threw his support behind a proposal by former New Mexico Senator
Pete Domenici, a Republican, and  Alice Rivlin , a former budget
director to President  Bill Clinton , that relies more on tax
increases to close the program’s 75-year shortfall.  Durbin is also part of the bipartisan working group of six
senators. Obama and congressional Republicans, who’ve offered no
specifics on how to handle entitlement spending, are looking to
the recommendations of the group, Rivlin said.  Praise From AARP  Others, including the AARP retiree lobbying group, praised
the White House for making its position clear.  “We are pleased to recently hear from a number of top-
level officials in  Washington  that Social Security would be
considered separate from the rest of the budget debate,” said
Nancy LeaMond, AARP executive vice president.  In their 2010 report, Social Security’s trustees said the
program will pay more in benefits than it collects in taxes for
the first time since 1983. That’s led some overhaul advocates to
say the program is adding to the deficit.  The report also says the program can pay full benefits
through 2037 by drawing on trust fund assets in the form of
Treasury bonds. At that point, tax income would cover only 75
percent of scheduled benefits.  ‘Miscalculating’ Political Moment  Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid account for $1.4
trillion of the $3.7 trillion fiscal 2011 budget, almost 40
percent. That share will rise to $2.7 trillion in a decade and
account for about 50 percent of the budget, according to the  Congressional Budget Office . Including interest, entitlement
spending will reach $3.7 trillion by 2021, or about 60 percent
of the budget. With no changes, by 2025 entitlement spending
could consume all  tax revenue .  Overall, over the next 75 years, Social Security faces a $7
trillion unfunded liability and Medicare faces a $36 trillion
unfunded liability.  Graham said there may still be a number of Senate bills in
the next few weeks addressing Social Security. He plans to
introduce a bill with Arizona Senator  John McCain . Among the
measures it could include are increasing the Social Security
retirement age, means-testing benefits for the wealthy and
increasing the percentage of wages subject to payroll taxes.  “They’re miscalculating the political moment,” Graham
said of the administration. “I’m still standing and I worked
with President Bush to try to do something.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  