-- 
Oil Pares Biggest Weekly Gain Since 2009 Amid Unrest in Libya

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-02-25T13:44:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/oil-heads-for-biggest-weekly-gain-since-2009-on-libya-supply-u-s-economy.html
Oil headed for its biggest weekly
gain in two years on concern the turmoil that has cut  Libya ’s
output may spread to other parts of the Middle East.  Crude surged to a 29-month high in New York yesterday amid
estimates that Libya’s output was cut by as much as two-thirds.
It retreated after the U.S., Saudi Arabia and the  International
Energy Agency  made assurances they can compensate for any
disruption of Libyan supplies. Oil also slipped as a U.S.
government report showed the economy grew slower less than
forecast in the fourth quarter.  “There’s still big uncertainty regarding the amount of
production losses in Libya and who will fill the gap,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .  Crude for April delivery gained as much as $1.92 to $99.20
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange and was at $96.60 a barrel at 1:42 p.m. London time.
Prices have risen more than 12 percent this week, the biggest
gain since the five days ended Feb. 27, 2009.    Brent crude  for April settlement was up 18 cents at $111.54
a barrel after rising as high as $113.91 on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. Yesterday, it climbed to $119.79, the
highest since Aug. 22, 2008. Brent is up 8.8 percent this week,
the most since October 2009.    U.S. Economy   The Commerce Department said the U.S. economy grew at a 2.8
percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, slower than
previously calculated as state and local governments made deeper
cuts in spending. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had
predicted expansion of 3.3 percent.  U.S. crude supplies climbed 822,000 barrels to 346.7
million in the week ended Feb. 18, the Energy Department said
yesterday in a weekly report. Inventories were forecast to climb
by 1.1 million barrels, according to the median of 15 analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Crude advanced above $100 this week as violence in Libya
forced companies including Total SA and Eni SpA to halt
production. Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  vowed to fight a
growing rebellion until his “last drop of blood.” As much as 1
million barrels of the country’s daily output may have been
shut, according to a Feb. 23 estimate from  Barclays Capital .  Libya, which pumps 1.6 million barrels of oil a day, is the
ninth-largest producer among the 12 members of OPEC, shipping
most of its crude and fuels across the Mediterranean to  Europe .
The country has the largest reserves in  Africa .  Price Swings  Prices swung the most in a year yesterday as Saudi Arabia
and the IEA moved to allay concern that Libya’s lost output
would lead to a supply shortfall. Brent traded in a range of
$10.19, the most since Sept. 29, 2009, while New York’s West
Texas Intermediate fluctuated in a range of $7.79 a barrel.  The Paris-based IEA said it is ready to release emergency
stockpiles, if needed. Saudi Arabia and other members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said they won’t
wait for an emergency meeting of the group to increase output,
according to a person with knowledge of producer-nation policy.  OPEC is prepared to meet any shortage if needed,  Saudi
Arabia  Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said Feb. 22. The country pumps
8.4 million barrels a day and says it has the ability to bring
on a further 4 million.  The production cuts in Libya were the first instance of
crude supplies being reduced by the civil unrest spreading
through the Middle East and North Africa.  Protests ignited by the ouster of Tunisia’s president last
month and fanned by the Feb. 11 fall of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  have also spread to Yemen and Bahrain, prompting Saudi
Arabia, the world’s biggest oil exporter, to introduce moves
intended to increase  living standards .  ‘Upside Risk’  While OPEC spare capacity is sufficient to make up for any
shortfall from Libya, there is a “significant upside risk” to
prices if the unrest reduces supplies from other oil-producing
countries, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a Feb. 23 report.  Nomura Holdings Inc. predicted on the same day that  oil
prices  may surge to $220 on the Libyan outages and any expansion
into neighboring  Algeria .  Yesterday the Nymex boosted the margin requirement on its
oil futures for the first time since March 2009 and the  IntercontinentalExchange Inc . raised its rates for the second
day in a row. Margins for speculators on the Nymex will increase
to $6,075 per contract from $5,063 after the close of trading
today, according to a notice on the  website  of the CME Group,
Nymex’s parent.  “If you have the margin raised, that takes capital out of
your position,” said Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks &
Opinions LLC in Houston. “You have to reduce your position to
balance your margin account.”  Oil may gain next week amid the Middle East turmoil, a
Bloomberg News survey showed. Twenty-three of 40 analysts, or 58
percent, forecast WTI futures will climb through March 4. Last
week, 44 percent said crude would increase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  