-- 
LSE Forced to Halt Trading After Glitch in New Technology

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-02-25T10:46:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/london-stock-exchange-suspends-continuous-trading-citing-system-issues-.html
  London Stock Exchange Group Plc ,
which this month agreed to buy Canada’s  TMX Group Inc ., was
forced to halt trading on its main market by a technical fault
less than two weeks after moving to a new system.  The exchange said it’s investigating a “market data
issue” and participants are unable to enter orders. No time has
been set for the resumption of trading, according to a statement
on its  website  at 10:19 a.m. in London. Lauren Crawley-Moore, an
LSE spokesman, declined to comment further.  LSE moved its main market to the MillenniumIT platform on
Feb. 14 after three months of delays. Turquoise, the first of
the exchange’s markets to make the change, had glitches on its
first day of trading in October and the next day was forced to
postpone the market open. Today’s outage follows the Feb. 22
delay to the start of trading on the Italian stock exchange,
which is owned by LSE and runs its old system. Borsa Italiana
opened 6 1/2 hours late, two hours before the close.  “Twice in one week with the blame game in full flow does
not instill confidence,” said Atif Latif, director of trading
at Guardian Stockbrokers in  London . “No one was really able to
comment on this till after 8:30 a.m., which is worrying for when
it is likely to be resolved.”  Alternative Systems  LSE Chief Executive Officer  Xavier Rolet  bought  Colombo , Sri
Lanka-based MillenniumIT in 2009 to overhaul LSE’s technology
and compete with alternative trading systems such as Bats Europe
and Chi-X Europe Ltd. The Millennium technology replaces
TradElect and is designed to stem a loss of market share to
rivals with faster systems. Trading in U.K. stocks is still
taking place on competing exchanges today.  “It is unfortunate for the LSE Group that lightning has
struck twice in the same week,” said Hirander Misra, who helped
found Chi-X  Europe  and is now chief executive officer of Algo
Technologies Ltd., which offers clients exchange data and
access. “Systems are not infallible and outages do occur,
however it is essential for any primary market trading system to
have a high level of up time.”  LSE acquired a majority stake in Turquoise, the London-
based alternative trading system created by banks, in 2009 and
on Feb. 9 agreed to purchase Toronto Stock Exchange owner TMX
Group in an all-share transaction valued at about C$3 billion
($3.1 billion).  “We want this glitch cleaned up extremely quickly,”  David Buik , a market strategist at BGC Partners, said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television. “You simply cannot afford not to have
your technology in duplication.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 