-- 
LSE Opens Four Hours Late Two Weeks After Technology Switch

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-02-25T17:25:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/london-stock-exchange-trading-held-for-hours-two-weeks-after-system-switch.html
  London Stock Exchange Group Plc 
opened more than four hours late days after moving to a new
electronic system, mirroring a technical fault that halted its
Italian market this week.  Trading started at 12:15 p.m. in London today after the
exchange resolved a “market data issue,” according to a
statement on its  website . Trading usually begins at 8 a.m. and
closes at 4:30 p.m.  LSE moved its main market to the MillenniumIT platform on
Feb. 14 after three months of delays. Turquoise, the first of
the exchange’s markets to make the change, had glitches on its
first day of trading in October and the next day was forced to
postpone the market open. Today’s outage follows Feb. 22’s 6
1/2-hour delay to the start of trading on the Italian stock
exchange, which is owned by LSE and runs its old system.  “Twice in one week with the blame game in full flow does
not instill confidence,” said Atif Latif, director of trading
at Guardian Stockbrokers in  London . “No one was really able to
comment on this till after 8:30 a.m., which is worrying.”  Chief Executive Officer  Xavier Rolet  bought  Colombo , Sri
Lanka-based MillenniumIT in 2009 to overhaul LSE’s technology
and compete with alternative trading systems such as Bats Europe
and Chi-X Europe Ltd. The Millennium technology replaces
TradElect and is designed to stem a loss of market share to
rivals with faster systems.  ‘Sincerely Regret’  “We sincerely regret the inconvenience that today’s
disruption to trading has caused our customers,” Rolet said in
an e-mailed statement.  Trading in U.K. stocks continued on competing exchanges
during today’s outage. About 33.5 million shares of companies in
the FTSE 100 Index changed hands before the LSE opened at 12:15
p.m., 92 percent fewer than by the same time yesterday.  “It is unfortunate for the LSE Group that lightning has
struck twice in the same week,” said Hirander Misra, who helped
found Chi-X Europe and is now chief executive officer of Algo
Technologies Ltd., which offers clients exchange data and
access. “Systems are not infallible and outages do occur,
however it is essential for any primary market trading system to
have a high level of up time.”  LSE shares fell 0.1 percent to 892.5 pence in London
trading, compared with a 1.8 percent gain in the FTSE 250 Index.  Turquoise, TMX Purchases  LSE acquired a majority stake in Turquoise, the London-
based alternative trading system created by banks, in 2009 and
on Feb. 9 agreed to purchase Toronto Stock Exchange owner  TMX
Group Inc . in an all-share transaction valued at about C$3
billion ($3.1 billion).  LSE was forced to halt trading for more than three hours on
Nov. 26, 2009, due to technical problems and in November 2007 a
glitch left some traders without prices for as much as 40
minutes. The exchange was closed for almost eight hours on April
5, 2000, because of an issue with the London Market Information
Link, a computer system used to connect the exchange with data
vendors and dealers. It closed for a day on Oct. 16, 1987, after
a severe storm battered southern  England , leaving most traders
unable to get to work.  On Jan. 27, LSE,  Europe ’s oldest independent stock market,
said sales in its fiscal third-quarter fell 1 percent as revenue
from capital markets declined. Revenue for the three months
ended Dec. 31 decreased to 149.1 million pounds ($240 million)
from 151.3 million pounds a year earlier.  Chi-x Europe also halted trading of U.K. stocks for about
five minutes around 11.15 a.m. today, citing “market data”
issues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 