-- 
Monsanto Wins Reversal of Order to Destroy Sugar Beet Plants

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-02-26T00:08:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/monsanto-wins-reversal-of-order-to-destroy-sugar-beet-seedlings.html
  Monsanto Co . and the U.S.
Agriculture Department won reversal of a judge’s order to
destroy genetically modified sugar beet seedlings planted last
year, a federal appeals court in San Francisco ruled today.  A three-judge panel, ruling in a lawsuit filed by
environmental and organic seed groups over sugar beet plants
modified to withstand Monsanto’s Roundup herbicide, said the
groups hadn’t shown that the seedlings were likely to
contaminate natural sugar beet plants.  A Nov. 30 order to dig up 256 acres of seedlings has been
on hold pending the appeals court review.  Sugar beets, grown on 1.3 million acres in 10 states,
provide half the nation’s sugar supply, according to the  Sugar
Industry Biotech Council . Most sugar beet seed is grown in  Oregon ’s Willamette Valley. The Center for  Food Safety , a
plaintiff, and organic seed organizations claim wind-blown
pollen from the genetically engineered crops will contaminate
conventional sugar beets and other closely related plants.  Four seed companies -- American Crystal Sugar Co.,
Betaseed, Syngenta and SES vanderHave USA -- obtained permits
from the Agriculture Department in August for limited planting
of the modified seedlings. The permits, which expire Feb. 28,
don’t allow the companies to let the plants flower and produce
seed, the ruling said.  Paige Tomaselli, a spokeswoman for the Center for Food
Safety in San Francisco, didn’t immediately return a voice mail
message.  St. Louis-based Monsanto is the world’s largest seed
company.  The case is Center for Food Safety v. Vilsack, 10-17722,
9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals   San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  