-- 
New Zealand Earthquake Won't Derail Economic Growth, Loomis Says

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-02-25T01:17:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/loomis-says-dairy-trumps-new-zealand-s-bump-in-road-quake.html
Loomis Sayles & Co., the second-
largest holder of  New Zealand ’s debt, is confident the nation’s
deadliest earthquake in 80 years won’t derail growth as the
economy benefits from surging dairy demand from markets
including China and  India .  “We believe there is definitely a positive commodities
story with food and energy being at the center of that story,”
Elaine Stokes, a money manager at Loomis, which oversees $152
billion in assets, said in a phone interview yesterday. “New
Zealand is located such that it really can take advantage of
where the biggest growth is in the world and we still see the
strongest growth in the world in  Asia .”  The Boston-based firm continues to hold its New Zealand
investments, she said, and a further 5 to 10 percent decline in
the nation’s currency may present an opportunity to add to
holdings. Stokes helps manage the $19.8 billion Loomis Bond Fund
which returned 14 percent to investors last year, beating 96
percent of its peers, Bloomberg data show.  New Zealand’s currency has fallen 2.1 percent against the
dollar since a 6.3 magnitude earthquake struck on Feb. 22
killing at least 113 people, destroying buildings and
threatening to tip the economy into recession. It traded at
75.04 U.S. cents as of 1:24 p.m. in Wellington after falling as
low as 74.28 cents on Feb. 23, the least since Dec. 23.  Paying Farmers More  Within hours of the quake, Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.,
the world’s largest dairy exporter, raised its forecast payment
to farmers after whole-milk powder prices reached a 31-month
high. Milk prices will likely remain at least 50 percent above
historical averages in the longer term, Chief Executive Officer
Andrew Ferrier said Feb. 14.  Dairy products are among the nation’s biggest exports and
“we are seeing, even within the region, an increase in
consumption. So, there’s a very strong fundamental story
there,” Stokes said.  The value of New Zealand’s commodity exports rose 3.8
percent to a record in January from December and prices gained
27 percent from a year earlier on higher demand for beef and
milk, ANZ National Bank Ltd. said Feb. 1. Last year, the value
of New Zealand’s dairy exports gained 29 percent to NZ$10.3
billion ($7.7 billion).    China  is New Zealand’s second-largest export market after  Australia  and overseas shipments make up 30 percent of the
smaller South Pacific nation’s economy.  ‘Offers Value’  Finance Minister Bill English said Feb. 9 that New
Zealand’s economy may have entered its second recession in two
years by contracting in the fourth quarter of last year.  Traders see certainty that New Zealand’s central bank will
cut rates to 2.75 percent from 3 percent when it meets on March
10, according to a Credit Suisse AG index based on swaps. Even
then, New Zealand would offer a yield advantage over nations
including the U.S., U.K.,  Europe  and Japan where key borrowing
costs are between zero and 1 percent.  “I look at something like this as a one-time event, bump
in the road, but it doesn’t derail the whole long-term story,”
Stokes said. “For a country of New Zealand’s strength, a triple
A country, we’re seeing a significant yield. That, given the low
yields in the rest of the developed world, really offers
value.”  Loomis holds 0.9 percent of New Zealand’s government
securities, the biggest owner after Daiwa Asset Management Co.
Ltd., among companies required to make regulatory filings,
Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 