-- 
Morgan Stanley Trader Teichholtz Joins Hedge Fund Pine River

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-02-25T17:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/morgan-stanley-trader-colin-teichholtz-said-to-join-pine-river-hedge-fund.html
Colin Teichholtz, co-head of liquid
rates trading at  Morgan Stanley , is leaving the company to join
hedge fund Pine River Capital Management LP, according to two
people familiar with the move.  Teichholtz, 40, helped lead a group at the New York-based
securities firm that traded Treasuries, interest-rate swaps,
agency debt and government-backed mortgage bonds. He will work
in  New York  for Minnetonka, Minnesota-based Pine River, said the
people, who declined to comment because the information isn’t
public. Teichholtz declined to comment for this article.  Hedge funds may step up hiring from investment banks after
firms including Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut compensation pools and deferred pay to
appease regulators seeking to reduce risk-taking in the wake of
the financial crisis. Average bonuses among 1,009 U.S.
respondents dropped 5 percent in 2010 from the previous year, a
survey by eFinancialCareers.com released last month showed  Performance at  hedge funds  climbed 1.7 percent last month,
reaching a two-year high as global stock markets rallied.  Teichholtz, who began at Morgan Stanley in 2003, is joining
a firm whose Nisswa Fixed Income Fund Ltd. ranked No. 7 in
Bloomberg Markets magazine’s 2010 list of 100 best-performing
hedge funds managing $1 billion or more. It returned 27 percent
in the first 10 months of the year, the period covered by the
rankings.  Patrick Clifford, a spokesman for Pine River, said the
company couldn’t comment “at this time.” Mary Claire Delaney,
a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley, declined to comment.  Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  has
made changes in the firm’s trading unit after fourth-quarter
revenue from the fixed-income business was less than half that
of its rivals. The company last month replaced fixed-income
trading head Jack DiMaio with Ken deRegt, and hired Glenn Hadden
from rival Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as global head of  interest
rates .  Jared Work, a Morgan Stanley trader of 30-year government-
backed mortgage bonds, also left the company this year, said one
of the people. Work declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  