-- 
Origin Says Solar Business to Expand After Fivefold Sales Gain

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-02-25T05:18:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/origin-says-australian-solar-business-to-expand-after-fivefold-sales-gain.html
  Origin Energy Ltd ., set to become  Australia ’s largest energy retailer after buying power assets,
expects its solar business to make “an increasingly strong”
contribution after a fivefold gain in sales.  Origin’s solar revenue rose to more than A$187 million
($189 million) in the six months ended Dec. 31, the Sydney-based
company said yesterday as it reported a 14 percent drop in
underlying profit. Origin recorded more than 28 megawatts of
installations of solar photovoltaic systems that convert
sunlight into electricity, boosted by government subsidies to
households. That compared with 2.4 megawatts a year earlier.  “Growth in the PV business has been extraordinary,”
Managing Director Grant King said on a call with analysts.
“Some of that growth was stimulated by over-generous subsidies,
particularly in New South  Wales , so we’ll see some settling
back. Nonetheless, that business is here to stay and will be an
increasingly strong contributor.”  Australia has set a target of generating 20 percent of its
electricity from renewable energy by 2020, and Prime Minister
Julia Gillard said yesterday the country will set a price on  carbon emissions  next year in preparation for a trading system
to curb  greenhouse gases  that could begin as early as 2015.  New South Wales in 2009 introduced an initiative offering
people with solar panels 60 Australian cents a kilowatt for the
power they generate. The program grew faster than expected,
prompting the state to cut the rate to 20 cents a kilowatt for
electricity fed to the grid, the government said in October.  Rooftop Installations  The state capped the initiative at 300 megawatts of
capacity, which “reflects the substantial fall” in the costs
of solar systems during the last 12 months,  the government said .  Solar rooftop installations are becoming “quite a material
contributor” to Origin’s business, according to King. Origin’s
half-year sales increased 7 percent to A$4.6 billion.  Origin spent A$22 million on “Transform Solar,” a 50-50
venture with  Micron Technology Inc . that’s targeting “potential
commercial” solar development, the company said.  Origin in December agreed to pay A$3.25 billion to acquire
New South Wales electricity assets, including retail businesses
Country Energy and Integral Energy, in a transaction that’s due
to be completed March 1. The company also is a partner with  ConocoPhillips  in a proposed natural gas project in Queensland.  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 