-- 
L.A. Chamber of Commerce Endorses Brown's $9.3 Billion Tax Extension

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-02-25T21:47:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/los-angeles-chamber-backs-brown-9-3-billion-tax-extension-to-cut-deficit.html
The  Los Angeles  Area Chamber of
Commerce, the largest business group in  California ’s most-
populous city, endorsed Governor  Jerry Brown ’s plan to extend
$9.3 billion in taxes and fees to help close a  budget deficit .  Brown, a 72-year-old Democrat, proposes to plug a $25.4
billion fiscal hole through a combination of spending cuts and
tax extensions. He has asked the state Legislature to put the
five-year extensions up for a statewide vote in June. The
Legislature is expected to make its decision in early March.  “The support of the L.A. chamber is really fundamental,”
Brown said. “I would hope other business groups would join with
them and other groups like organized labor, environmental groups
and important individuals from both parties.”  Chamber Chairman Joe Czyzyk, chief executive officer of
Mercury Air Group Inc., told Brown the business organization
would prefer a three-year extension instead of five. Brown was
noncommittal.  The 1,600-member  chamber  represents businesses that employ
650,000 workers in the nation’s second-largest city, according
to its  website .  “The L.A. Chamber is kind of an anomaly, a very positive
attitude about taxes,” said Kris Vosburgh, executive director
of the  Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association , an anti-tax group.
“Their clout should not be overestimated.”  Advertising Campaign  Vosburgh said his organization is considering a radio
advertising campaign to oppose extending the taxes, should it
reach the ballot.  “This isn’t the time to further impoverish taxpayers,”
Vosburgh said in a telephone interview from his Los Angeles
office. “It’s just another nail in the coffin of the California
economy.”  The 15,000-member  California Chamber of Commerce  hasn’t
taken a position on the tax extensions or the governor’s budget
plan, according to Denise Davis, a spokeswoman for the
Sacramento-based group.  In 2009, it  endorsed  a series of ballot measures backed by
Republican Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  that would have
extended the state’s tax increases. The measures were defeated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  