-- 
Oscar Oddsmakers Favor `King's Speech' as Best Movie Over `Social Network'

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-02-25T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/oscar-oddsmakers-favor-king-s-speech-for-best-movie-actor.html
“The King’s Speech” and leading
man  Colin Firth  are overwhelming favorites to win top Oscars
when the Academy Awards are announced on Feb. 27, extending four
years of dominance by smaller-budget films.  The Weinstein Co. movie has an 81 percent chance of
capturing the best-picture Oscar, Hollywood’s highest honor,
according to odds-maker Intrade.com. Firth’s best-actor
prospects are even better at 96 percent, according to the
Dublin-based  Web site . The race for best director is closer.  “The King’s Speech” became the best-picture frontrunner,
eclipsing “The Social Network,” after Hollywood guilds
representing directors, actors and producers all gave the movie
their top honors. The story, about Britain’s King George VI and
the unorthodox speech therapist who helped him deliver an
important World War II radio address, resonated with audiences.  “‘The King’s Speech’ has heart,” said Tom O’Neil, who
lists the film as a 71 percent favorite on  Goldderby.com , a site
that compiles critics’ predictions. “They’re embracing the
heart of this movie.”  “The Social Network,” from  Sony Corp .’s Columbia
Pictures, is second in various rankings, with the best odds, 40
percent, coming from Johnny Avello, executive director of racing
& sports operations at Wynn Las Vegas, part of  Wynn Resorts Ltd .  The film about Facebook Inc. and founder  Mark Zuckerberg 
was named best film by critics groups, including the New York
Film Critics Circle and the Los Angeles Film Critics
Association. Guilds are more likely to include motion picture
academy members who vote in the Oscar races, said O’Neil.  Box-Office Winners  Both movies won at the box office. “The King’s Speech,”
made for $15 million, has generated $236.9 million in worldwide
ticket sales, according to  Box Office Mojo , an industry website
owned  Amazon.com Inc . “The Social Network,” with a $40 million
production budget, has worldwide sales of $221 million.  Ticket sales for all 10 of this year’s best-picture
nominees have exceeded their production budgets, according to
Box Office Mojo. The 83rd Academy Awards will air live on  Walt
Disney Co .’s ABC TV network, with the ceremony scheduled to
start at 8 p.m. New York time.  Among the major awards categories, one of the closest races
is for best director.  David Fincher , who directed “The Social
Network,” leads the category with a 60 percent chance on
Intrade.com and 50 percent from Ladbrokes. Intrade puts Tom Hooper for “The King’s Speech” in second at 38 percent.  The other contenders, Darren Aronofsky for   Black Swan ,”
David O. Russell for “The Fighter” and “True Grit” directors
Joel and Ethan Coen, are long shots based on the sites.  $1 Million Wagered  The popularity of numerous best-picture nominees may be
generating greater interest among bettors, Intrade Chief
Executive Officer John Delaney said in an interview. Hits on the
Web site’s Oscar categories are up 300 percent from a year
earlier, when “The Hurt Locker” and “Avatar” led the
wagering, he said.  “It’s a very strong endorsement as to what our traders,
our real-money traders, think is going to happen,” Delaney
said. About $1 million has been wagered, he said.  The other best-picture nominees include “Black Swan,”
“The Fighter,” “Inception,” “The Kids Are All Right,”
“127 Hours,” “Toy Story 3,” “True Grit” and “Winter’s
Bone.”  “The King’s Speech,” co-starring  Geoffrey Rush  as
therapist Lionel Logue, is among six independent films in the
best-picture category. Smaller-budget movies have won best
picture since the drama “The Departed” took the award at the
2007 telecast.  Oscar Hopefuls  “The King’s Speech” is given an 86 percent chance of
winning by  Ladbrokes Plc , the U.K.-based bookmaker. Firth is a
98 percent favorite to win best actor. Avello gives the movie a
75 percent chance. He puts Firth’s chances at 89 percent.  Firth’s rivals for best actor are: Jesse Eisenberg for his
portrayal of Zuckerberg in “The  Social Network ,”  Jeff Bridges 
for “True Grit,” Javier Bardem for “Biutiful,” and James Franco for “127 Hours,” director Danny Boyle’s film about a
young hiker who amputates his own arm after being trapped in a
Utah canyon.  For best actress,  Natalie Portman  is the 88 percent
favorite to win for her role as the troubled ballerina in
“Black Swan,” according to Intrade. Annette Bening is second
for “The Kids Are All Right,” followed by Michelle Williams
for “Blue Valentine,”  Jennifer Lawrence  for “Winter’s Bone”
and  Nicole Kidman  for “Rabbit Hole.”  “The Social Network,” adapted for the screen by “The
West Wing” creator  Aaron Sorkin , focuses on legal and personal
disputes among the young founders of Facebook, the social-
networking company. Sorkin and director Fincher are nominated
for Oscars, in addition to Eisenberg.  “The Social Network,” set in college classrooms and
dorms, may not resonate with older academy members, O’Neil said.  “It’s a cold movie,” O’Neil said. “There are no heroes
in ‘The Social Network.’ There’s no one to root for. It’s always
important to have a rooting factor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  