-- 
Motorola Mobility Sues TiVo to Challenge Time Warp Patents

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-02-25T23:34:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/motorola-mobility-sues-tivo-to-challenge-time-warp-patents-1-.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.
filed a lawsuit challenging  TiVo Inc .’s “time warp” patents
and claiming it owns the rights to digital-video recording
technology that was invented first.  The complaint today in federal court in Texarkana, Texas,
contends TiVo infringes patents and seeks a ruling that Motorola
Mobility customer  Verizon Communications Inc .’s set-top boxes
don’t use TiVo inventions. TiVo sued Verizon in 2009, claiming
the FiOS television service violates its patents.  Motorola Mobility said engineers of its General Instrument
unit formed a company called Imedia that developed “fundamental
inventions related to digital video recorders” in 1994 and
1995, more than two years before Alviso, California-based TiVo
was founded and sought its own patents.  “The TiVo patents disclose and claim the same technology
that Imedia engineers invented years before,” Libertyville,
Illinois-based Motorola Mobility said in the complaint. “TiVo
obtained patents on its DVR product and sued the industry.”  General Instrument, which now owns all Imedia assets, and
Motorola Mobility make the set-top boxes for Verizon. Motorola
Mobility said Verizon is demanding that Motorola Mobility defend
Verizon and be responsible for any losses in the case.  TiVo won a 2004 lawsuit against  Dish Network Corp . and is
trying to get the Dish DVR service shut down. The issue is
before a U.S. appeals court.  TiVo also has sued  AT&T Inc . over its U-Verse service.  Microsoft Corp ., which makes the software for U-Verse, is
challenging the patents, and has accused TiVo of violating
Microsoft’s inventions.  Michael Boccio, a spokesman for TiVo, said the company had
no comment on the complaint.  The new case is Motorola Mobility Inc. v. TiVo Inc.,
11cv53, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas
(Texarkana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  