-- 
Republicans Urge Democrats to Accept $4 Billion Budget Cut

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-02-26T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/house-republicans-urge-democrats-to-accept-cuts-avoid-government-shutdown.html
U.S. House Republicans agreed
yesterday to temporarily ease some demands for cuts in federal
spending, a move Senate Democrats said “encouraged” them as
the two sides work to avert a government shutdown next week.  House Republicans proposed a two-week spending  bill  that
would make $4 billion in cuts through a handful of reductions
already backed by President  Barack Obama  and by eliminating
unspent funds for legislative pet projects. A failure to enact a
new plan by March 4, when current spending authority expires,
would cause a shutdown.  The Republicans dropped, at least for now, demands for cuts
in a number of government programs, proposing instead to keep
most federal agencies at current budget levels through March 18.
Democrats wouldn’t say whether they will accept the plan, though
they had kinder words for yesterday’s action than for earlier
Republican proposals they rejected.  “We are encouraged to hear that Republicans are abandoning
their demands for extreme measures like cuts to border security,
cancer research and food safety inspectors,” Jon Summers, a
spokesman for Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , said in a
statement.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
said in a statement that the bill “includes common-sense
spending cuts to responsibly keep the government running for the
next two weeks and avoid a shutdown.”  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, had sought a 30-day extension at
current spending levels. Summers said the Republicans’ two-week
plan “sounds like a modified version of what Democrats were
talking about” to allow time to prepare a longer-term measure
that would fund the government through Sept. 30, the end of the
2011 fiscal year.  Highway, Election Spending  The House Republican proposal would make $1.24 billion in
reductions, including a $650 million cut in highway spending,
$75 million less for election-assistance grants to states and a
$29 million reduction in a broadband loan program. It would end
four Department of Education programs as proposed in Obama’s
budget request earlier this month.  The measure also would rescind $2.7 billion from accounts
lawmakers used to fund their pet projects -- a practice, known
as earmarking, that both parties say they have abandoned.  Even if lawmakers are able to avoid a shutdown next week,
they must bridge large differences over how much to spend for
the remainder of the fiscal year.  The House last week passed legislation that would cut $61
billion in spending this year by eliminating more than 100
programs and cutting hundreds of others. Senate Democrats have
rejected those cuts, saying they would threaten the economic
recovery. Even so, Democrats have said they will seek additional
cuts.  ‘Resolve Our Differences’  “I have talked to members of the Republican leadership,
and I am hopeful we can resolve our differences on a long-term
measure quickly so that we are not forced to continue funding
the government in disruptive two-week increments that undermine
efficiency,” Representative Steny Hoyer of  Maryland , the
second-ranking House Democrat, said in a statement.  “We welcome the news that they are beginning to embrace
the need to cut spending,” Cantor said. “But I’d caution my
Senate Democrat colleagues to make sure that their cuts are
significant and serious spending reduction proposals, not just
minor efforts to trim around the edges.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  