-- 
Owen Wilson Flaunts ‘Pass’; Doomed Monks Hear ‘Swan Lake’: Film

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-02-26T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/owen-wilson-flaunts-pass-doomed-monks-hear-swan-lake-film.html
In “ Hall Pass ,” a comedy about two
dumb and dumber guys looking to relive misspent (and likely
misremembered) youth, directors Peter and Bobby Farrelly
recapture a bit of their own glory days.  If the brothers can’t muster the fresh, bold laughs they
inspired with “ There’s Something About Mary ” 13 years ago,
they come closer than they have since.  Pairing Owen Wilson and Jason Sudeikis (“Saturday Night
Live”) as 40ish buddies buckling under the stagnation of
marital contentment, “Hall Pass” builds from an absurd premise
-- the guys are given a one-week free ride by their wives to
indulge in temporary bachelorhood -- to conclude that there’s no
place like home.  Home, for Wilson’s Rick, means three kids, a comfy suburban
house, pleated khakis and a happy if thrill-free marriage to the
lovely Maggie (Jenna Fischer). He and his goofy pal Fred
(Sudeikis) are basically good, do-the-right-thing kind of guys,
yet can’t help stealing a look at the buxom barista who serves
their Splenda-sweetened iced coffee.  Acting on the recommendation of a friendly neighborhood pop
psychologist (Joy Behar), Maggie and Fred’s wife Grace
(Christina Applegate) gather the kids and head off for a beach
week, instructing the boys to get things out of their systems.  Golf Buzz  As Maggie tells Grace, Rick and Fred are “domesticated
house cats,” scratching for freedom but certain to freeze at
the moment of escape.  With a makeshift entourage of equally spineless poker
buddies, Rick and Fred cruise the local hotspots, starting with
Applebee’s, in search of the carefree sexcapades barely
remembered from their college days.  Some adventures are funnier than others: A drunken night at
a local roadhouse scores laughs, while a pot-buzzed afternoon on
the golf course misfires. But the Farrellys, with two or three
misguided exceptions, aim for a gentler humor than the zipper-
gripping guffaws of “Mary.”  When one of Fred’s near-conquests has a bathroom accident
that recalls a similarly explosive moment in the Farrellys’
“ Dumb and Dumber ,” the scene seems better suited to an outtake
reel. The Farrellys are on steadier ground with Rick’s sweet-
natured infatuation with the sexy barista (charmingly played by
Nicky Whelan).  The filmmakers have certainly expanded their scope of
sympathy over the years to include wives: Maggie and Grace have
adventures of their own before rediscovering their hearts’ true
desires.  “Hall Pass,” from New Line Cinema, is playing across the
U.S. Rating: **1/2  ‘Gods and Men’  Stark and emotionally brutal, Xavier Beauvois’ “ Of Gods
and Men ” is an unflinching, compassionate examination of faith
and courage under strain.  Loosely based on the true story of seven Christian monks
kidnapped and murdered by Islamist terrorists in 1990s  Algeria ,
this French film is set in a small monastery in the mountains of
an unnamed North African country.  The lives of the Christian monks who live there have long
been peacefully interwoven into the surrounding Muslim
community. Without too heavy a hand, Beauvois and screenwriter
Etienne Comar make clear the commonalities between the two
faiths.  ‘Swan Lake’  That coexistence is doomed as radical Islamists gain
political advantage in the country. When the slaughter of
foreigners begins, the monks know their own days are numbered
and must decide whether to stand their ground or flee.  Caroline Champetier’s camera work beautifully captures the
mountain landscape, yet it’s most powerful during the
heartrending close-ups in the film’s most remarkable scene.  On their last night together, the monks break their age-old
custom of dining in silence by listening to a recording of
  Swan Lake .” The rapture in their eyes is testament to beauty
in an unspeakably cruel world.  “Of Gods and Men,” from  Sony Pictures Classics , is
playing in  New York  and  Los Angeles . Rating: ****  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:  Greg Evans  at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 