-- 
Lloyds Bank Cut Real Estate Lending by $8.9 Billion Last Year

-- B y   T o m   B i l l
-- 
2011-02-25T15:32:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/lloyds-bank-cut-real-estate-lending-by-8-9-billion-last-year.html
  Lloyds Banking Group Plc , the U.K.’s
second-largest provider of commercial real estate financing, cut
loans to property companies by 5.5 billion pounds ($8.9 billion)
last year as it reduced risk.  The total fell to 78.3 billion pounds from 83.8 billion
pounds a year earlier, Lloyds said in its full-year earnings
statement today.  Banks have reined in real estate lending since the global
financial crisis began. A lack of property loans in the U.K.
could trigger a second slump in the values outside of the
country’s most attractive locations, the Property Industry
Alliance told the  Bank of England  last month.  “The focus is to continue to improve and re-balance the
risk profile of the existing portfolio and apply conservative
and prudent lending policies in relation to new business,” the
bank said about its real estate lending today.  Poorly performing commercial property loans rose by 700
million pounds to 26.2 billion pounds, Lloyds said. Commercial
property prices will probably fall 2 percent this year and 3
percent in 2012, it said.  A 34.4 billion-pound shortfall in financing for debt due in
the next four years may result in more foreclosures and a slump
in values, the industry group said.  Some property assets have been moved to Lloyd’s business
support unit, which focuses on distressed investments, said Ian Kitts, a London-based spokesman for Lloyds.    Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , the U.K.’s biggest
commercial real estate lender, said yesterday that it had cut
its loans to the sector by 11 percent to 87 billion pounds as
debt was repaid, sold and restructured.  RBS said 9.2 billion pounds in its real estate lending
portfolio was on the bank’s “credit watch” list, while 32.6
million pounds is being managed by the bank’s global
restructuring group and 45.5 billion was “managed normally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Bill in London at   tbill2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  