-- 
Toyota Settlement of Sudden Acceleration Lawsuit Approved

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-02-26T00:07:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/toyota-10-million-settlement-with-family-approved-in-acceleration-lawsuit.html
  Toyota Motor Corp . won approval for
a $10 million settlement with the family of a California Highway
Patrol officer who together with three others died when their
car sped out of control and crashed.  California Superior Court Judge Anthony Mohr approved the
product-liability settlement at a hearing today in  Los Angeles .
Bob Baker Lexus, the San Diego dealership that had loaned the
Lexus ES350 involved in the crash to  Mark Saylor  and his family,
had objected to the settlement that leaves the dealer facing
unresolved negligence claims.  Saylor, 45, his wife, their 13-year-old daughter and his
brother-in-law, Chris Lastrella, died in the crash on Aug. 28,
2009.  “We’re pleased the court has affirmed the private,
amicable settlement that Toyota and the Saylor and Lastrella
families reached in good faith through mutual respect and
cooperation,” the carmaker said today in an e-mailed statement.  Larry Willis, a lawyer for the dealership, said in a phone
interview that he believes Toyota should be responsible for any
claims Bob Baker  Lexus  still faces.  John Gomez, a lawyer for the Saylor family who wasn’t at
the hearing, didn’t immediately return a call to his office.  Lexus Accelerated  According to the March 2 lawsuit filed by Saylor’s family,
the Lexus accelerated on its own and reached speeds of more than
100 miles an hour before it came to the end of a freeway and
broke through a fence. In a 911 emergency call Saylor’s brother-
in-law made from the car before the crash, he said that the
accelerator was stuck, according to the complaint.  The company, based in Toyota City, Japan, said in a
statement in December that a December 2009 San Diego County
Sheriff’s Department report on the crash “determined that the
cause was an incompatible all-weather floor mat from a Lexus SUV
model that was installed incorrectly in the ES 350 sedan at the
dealership.”  The report concluded that the accelerator pedal became
trapped either in the grooves of mat, which is larger and
thicker than the correct mat for the sedan, or underneath it,
according to Toyota’s statement. The report also found that
clips to hold the mat in place were not attached, which could
have allowed it to move forward, Toyota said.  Cause of Accident  Willis, the lawyer for Bob Baker Lexus, said in December
that he disagreed with the report’s conclusions, which he said
were only preliminary, and that a subsequent investigation
indicated that the accident may have been caused by an
electrical problem with the vehicle.  Toyota has recalled more than 8 million vehicles for
repairs related to sudden unintended acceleration. In September
2009, the automaker announced a recall of 3.8 million Toyota and
Lexus vehicles because of a defect that may cause floor mats to
jam accelerator pedals. The company later recalled vehicles over
defects involving the pedals themselves.  Toyota’s American depositary receipts, each representing
two ordinary shares, rose $1.65, or 1.8 percent, to $91.75 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The case is John Saylor v.  Toyota Motor Corp .,
37-2010-00086718, California Superior Court, San Diego County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  