-- 
Toyota Judge Tells Lawyers to Move Fast for 2013 Trials

-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-02-25T20:04:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/toyota-judge-tells-lawyers-to-move-fast-for-first-trials-in-2013.html
Lawyers suing  Toyota Motor Corp . and
those for the automaker were told by a federal judge to quickly
resolve an evidence dispute so the first cases over unintended
sudden acceleration of its vehicles can go to trial in the first
three months of 2013.  U.S. District Judge James V. Selna in  Santa Ana ,  California , told the lawyers to decide procedures for examining
the Toyota software source code for its electronic throttle
control system, which has been blamed by some plaintiffs for
instances of unintended acceleration.  “I think it’s important that these underbrush issues get
teed up and resolved so the discovery can go forth and we can
proceed with these trials,” Selna said today in court, also
referring to other issues related to evidence in the lawsuits.  Selna is overseeing hundreds of cases coordinated in
multidistrict litigation. The federal lawsuits against Toyota
alleging economic loss, wrongful death or personal injury from
sudden unintended acceleration were consolidated before him in
April.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, recalled millions of
U.S. vehicles last year and in 2009, most for defects related to
unintended acceleration. It paid a record $48.8 million in fines
for how some of the recalls were conducted. The carmaker said
yesterday that it’s recalling another 2.17 million vehicles in
the U.S. for carpet and floor-mat flaws that could jam gas
pedals.  Source Code  Access to the source code, which is the programming for the
throttle system, has been disputed for several months by the two
sides and was described by the judge as one of the key issues to
be resolved before trials can begin. The judge said the
plaintiffs’ lawyers have a right to review the code to allow
their experts to determine whether the system caused the
acceleration problems. Toyota lawyers said they want sufficient
safeguards to prevent the codes, which are trade secrets, from
becoming public and available to their competitors.  “There’s no disagreement between us over what they want to
see, the only question is the mechanism of monitoring,” Joel
Smith, a lawyer for Toyota, told Selna.    Mark Robinson , a lawyer for the plaintiffs, told the judge
that their experts won’t violate confidentiality.  “One thing we don’t want to do is to get blamed for the
source code getting out to the public,” Robinson said.  The coordinated cases are In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:  Bill Callahan  in  San Diego  at 
 callahan@san.rr.com ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 