-- 
Mid Europa Buys Poland's Zabka Store Chain as Retail Market Consolidates

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 
2011-02-25T12:36:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/penta-to-sell-polish-zabka-chain-to-mid-europa-partners.html
Mid Europa Partners, a U.K.-based
private equity firm, today bought Zabka Polska SA, Poland’s
largest convenience-store chain, as Polish mergers and
acquisitions continue after a record last year.  Mid Europa will pay Penta Investments 400 million euros
($551 million) for the 2,400-store chain, Martin Danko, a
spokesman for the Czech and Slovak private equity fund that’s
selling Zabka, said in a text message today. Zabka had 121.5
million zloty ($42 million) in earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, and amortization on sales of 2.54 billion zloty
last year, Penta said in an e-mailed statement today.  “It’s yet another sign that the Polish retail market is
moving toward faster consolidation,” Michal Potyra, an analyst
at UniCredit SpA in Warsaw, said by phone. “Someday Zabka will
end up being owned by one of the larger players.”    Carrefour SA  of  France , the world’s second-largest
retailer, was interested in Zabka and didn’t submit a final bid,
who declined to be identified because the talks were
confidential, told Bloomberg News at the time. That month  Emperia Holding SA  sold its wholesale business to  Eurocash SA 
for 926 million zloty and said it would use the money to buy
retailers.  Mid Europa sees “strong organic and consolidation growth
opportunities available in the Polish retail sector,” Matthew Strassberg, a partner in the fund, said in the statement.  Deals Quadruple  Polish mergers and acquisitions quadrupled to $20.3 billion
last year, with the biggest deals coming in the banking,
telecommunications and energy industries.  The market will keep growing in the next three to five
years to reach the western European level of as much 10 percent
of the country’s gross domestic product, Krzysztof Rozen, head
of corporate finance at KPMG International’s Warsaw-based unit,
said last year. The ratio stood at about 4 percent in 2010.  KPMG, which led the league tables last year, advised Penta
on the Zabka deal, together with JP Morgan Chase & Co., Baker &
McKenzie LLP, and Roland Berger. Vienna Capital Partners, CMS
Cameron McKenna LLP and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP advised Mid
Europa.  Penta sold 128 Zabka and Koruna convenience stores in the  Czech Republic  for 1.02 billion koruna ($57.5 million) to  Tesco Plc , the U.K.’s largest retailer, in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  