-- 
Permira Co-CEO Bjorklund Says Fund Has Rebounded From Credit Crisis Losses

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-02-25T08:50:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/permira-co-ceo-bjorklund-says-fund-has-rebounded-from-credit-crisis-losses.html
Kurt Bjorklund, Permira Advisers
LLP’s co-managing partner, said his 9.6 billion-euro ($13.3
billion) private equity fund has rebounded, recovering almost
all the writedowns its recorded during the credit crisis.  Permira ’s fund, which owns stakes in clothing designers
Hugo Boss and Valentino Fashion Group SA, is now “close to
par,” up from a 40 percent markdown at the end of June,
Bjorklund, 41, said in an interview at his office in  London .  “The first part of the fund is recovering rapidly and
includes some strong performers,” he said, citing pet food
maker Provimi SA, casino operator Galaxy Entertainment Group
Ltd. and chemical maker Arysta LifeScience. “The whole second
half of the fund, invested since the recession hit, includes
real winners. We’re now working for the upside.”  Firms including KKR & Co. are marking up the value of their
holdings as public markets rebound and companies emerge from the
most severe recession in more than 70 years. Permira had marked
down its Permira IV fund, raised in 2006, by as much as 60
percent in December 2008. More than half of the funds raised in
2006 are posting losses of less than 4 percent, up from a median
15 percent loss in 2008, according to London-based Preqin Ltd.  Six out of the seven companies Permira acquired before
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008 “are well
above, from an operating performance point of view, where they
were at the time of the acquisition,” Bjorklund said.  Freescale Semiconductor  Those include chipmaker Freescale Semiconductor Inc.,  Hugo
Boss  and German broadcaster ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG, he said.
The three investments, representing more than 500 million euros
each, are among the five largest in Permira IV, the firm’s most
recent fund.  Bjorklund, a former Boston Consulting Group consultant,
headed Permira’s Stockholm office for five years and became co-
managing partner in 2007 with Tom Lister, 46, who is based in  New York . He worked on Permira’s investments in companies
including satellite system operator Inmarsat Plc and TDC A/S,
Denmark’s largest telephone company.  SVG Capital Plc, the private equity firm’s largest
investor, said last week it marked up the value of its stake in
Hugo Boss and Italian luxury label Valentino, Permira’s largest
holding, by 37 percent last year after operating profit jumped.  The investor also boosted the value of casino operator
Galaxy Entertainment by 180 percent after shares of the Chinese
casino operator almost tripled. It marked up pet food maker
Provimi’s value by 64 percent and the value of Japanese
chemicals maker Arysta LifeScience by 43 percent.  Hugo Boss  SVG values its stake in Hugo Boss and Valentino at
20 percent less than its $2.5 billion purchase price. German
broadcaster ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG is still marked down 52
percent from the original investment, according to SVG.
Freescale Semiconductor, marked up 89 percent in 2010, is valued
at less than half the amount Permira paid for it in 2006. The
firm, which owns the chipmaker with Blackstone Group LP, TPG and  Carlyle Group , is preparing an initial public offering for
Freescale.  Permira invested about one-third of its fund before the
financial crisis. Investments made since, such as the 2.5
billion-euro acquisition of U.K. pay-TV technology firm NDS
Group Plc with Robert Murdoch’s News Corp., and the 300 million-
euro purchase of U.K. life insurance company Just Retirement
Plc, are helping offset the few investments still marked down,
Bjorklund said.  Permira still aims to generate net annual returns that are
about 15 percentage points higher than public markets, the same
level that the firm has achieved over the past 25 years,
Bjorklund said.  “That magnitude of premium is what our business is
about,” Bjorklund said.  Permira has “a couple of billion euros” to invest before
September 2012, when the fund’s purchase period expires, and the
firm hasn’t yet made a decision on when it will start raising a
new pool, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  