-- 
Petrobras Profit Rises 38% to Record on Higher Oil Output at Brazil Fields

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-02-28T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/petrobras-fourth-quarter-net-income-increases-38-to-10-6-billion-reais.html
  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , the world’s
third-largest oil company by market value, said fourth-quarter
profit surged 38 percent to a record after production increased.  Net income rose to 10.6 billion reais ($6.4 billion), or 81
centavos a share, from 7.7 billion reais, or 87 centavos, a year
earlier, the Brazilian state-controlled company said Feb. 25.
Per-share profit, which fell after the company’s $70 billion
stock offer last year diluted earnings, topped the 67-centavo
average estimate of three analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Petrobras expanded output to an average 2.63 million
barrels a day in the quarter and produced a record in December
after completing maintenance at offshore platforms. It also
started new fields including Lula, formerly known as Tupi, which
holds an estimated 6.5 billion barrels, taking advantage of
surging prices as demand for fuels increased.  “The combination of robust crude oil price realizations
and increases in crude oil production contributed to solid
earnings,”  Gianna Bern , president of Brookshire Advisory and
Research, a Chicago-based risk-management adviser to oil
producers, said in a telephone interview on Feb. 25.  Oil futures in New York averaged 12 percent higher in the
fourth quarter than a year earlier. Crude oil for April delivery
rose 60 cents to close at $97.88 a barrel Feb. 25 on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange .  Petrobras gained from increased demand for fuel in the
world’s second-fastest growing major auto market behind  China .
Brazilian car makers produced a record 3.6 million vehicles last
year, a 14 percent increase over 2009, according to the
country’s automakers association.  ‘Extraordinary’ Diesel Sales  “Diesel sales had extraordinary growth and refineries are
producing at maximum rates,” Chief Financial Officer  Almir Barbassa  told reporters in Rio de Janeiro on Feb. 25.  Petrobras, which has a market value of about $243 billion,
has gained 4.8 percent this year.  Exxon Mobil Corp . and
PetroChina Co. are the world’s first-and second-biggest oil
producers by market value, respectively.  Petrobras said it will revise its investment plan this year
to include the development of new oil reserves it bought from
the government as part of a $70 billion share sale, the largest
in history. The company will likely announce its new plan in
April or May, according to Barbassa.  Petrobras doesn’t plan to raise domestic gasoline prices,
limiting its gains in coming quarters as oil surges to a two-
year high. Barbassa expects  oil prices  to return to between $80
and $90 a barrel in one to two months after tensions in North
Africa and the Middle East die down, he said.  Debt Sales  Petrobras will need to sell $6 billion to $8 billion of new
debt in each of the next five years to help finance its business
plan, Barbassa said Jan. 15. Petrobras sold $6 billion of debt
in January.  The company is developing the offshore Lula field and may
take a minimum stake of 30 percent in the government’s Libra
field. Lula and Libra are the Americas’ biggest oil discoveries
since  Mexico ’s Cantarell in 1976. The fields are in a deep-water
region, known as the pre-salt, along  Brazil ’s coast.  Petrobras aims to produce 2.1 million barrels a day in
Brazil this year, up from an average of 2.004 million barrels
last year, Barbassa said.  The company’s output growth, while increasing at a slower
pace than management predicts, compares well with other major
oil producers, said Bern of Brookshire Advisory. Petrobras plans
to drill 60 offshore wells this year, twice as many as in 2010.  “They’re one of the few majors with a plan to increase
production,” said Bern. “You’re going to see an increase in
demand for their exports.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  