-- 
Protalix Falls After FDA Declines Drug for Gaucher Disease

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-02-25T21:27:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/pfizer-protalix-fail-to-win-fda-approval-of-cerezyme-rival-1-.html
  Protalix BioTherapeutics Inc . fell
the most in two years in New York trading after it failed to win
U.S. approval of a plant-based medicine it’s developing with  Pfizer Inc . to treat Gaucher disease.  Protalix, based in Carmiel,  Israel , dropped $1.73, or 18
percent, to $7.63 at 4:04 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, the biggest percentage decline since Dec. 1,
2008. Pfizer fell 4 cents to $18.86.  The  Food and Drug Administration  asked for more data from
two studies and information on testing specifications in the new
drug application for taliglucerase alfa, developed to treat
Gaucher disease, an inherited illness that causes fat build-up
that can lead to  lung disease  and  brain damage , Protalix said
today in a statement. No new trials were requested. The drug
would compete with  Genzyme Corp .’s top-selling Cerezyme and  Shire Plc ’s Vpriv.  “We don’t think this is going to be a very long process,”
Protalix Chief Executive Officer David Aviezer told analysts and
investors on a conference call today. The company plans to work
closely with Pfizer and request a meeting with the FDA as soon
as possible to determine what needs to be done for approval.  Taliglucerase is the first product for Protalix. The
medicine is designed to replace an enzyme missing in people with
Gaucher disease, a disorder that causes fat to build up in the
liver, spleen, bone marrow and nervous system.  Rivals’ Sales  Cerezyme had global sales of $719.6 million last year for
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme, a 42 percent decline
from two years ago because of manufacturing issues. Vpriv,
chemically known as velaglucerase alfa, generated sales of $143
million for Dublin-based Shire after being approved by the FDA
in February 2010.  “Importantly, it does not appear that the FDA has
significant safety concerns with taliglucerase,” said Brian Abrahams, an analyst at Wells Fargo Securities in  New York , in a
note to clients today. “Rather, given the improving supply of
Genzyme’s Cerezyme and availability of Shire’s velaglucerase,
the agency likely prefers to wait for a more complete dataset
for patients on taliglucerase prior to approval.”  Gaucher disease affects about 1 in every 50,000 to 100,000
people and can lead to bone pain, anemia, lung disease or brain
damage, according to the  National Human Genome Research
Institute .  Taliglucerase, once approved, may win at least 15 percent
of patients “through strong marketing and competitive
pricing,” said Ritu Baral, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity in
New York, in a Feb. 22 note to clients. Cerezyme costs more than
$200,000 a year.  Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, paid $60 million for
rights to taliglucerase in November 2009 and promised Protalix
an additional $55 million if the drug passed certain regulatory
hurdles. New York-based Pfizer is entitled to 60 percent of the
drug’s revenue under the licensing agreement.  Sanofi-Aventis SA of Paris said Feb. 16 it would buy
Genzyme for at least $20.1 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 