-- 
Plague Death Came Within Hours, Spurred by Scientist's Medical Condition

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-02-25T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/plague-kills-u-s-scientist-in-first-laboratory-case-in-50-years-cdc-says.html
University of Chicago  infectious
disease specialist Ken Alexander still remembers the shock he
felt almost 18 months ago when his pager shook with the message
that a colleague had died from  the plague .  A half-hour later, Alexander was sitting at a table in the
dean’s office with researchers, lawyers, administrators and
campus security officers, he recalled in an interview.  The
stricken colleague ,  Malcolm Casadaban , a 60-year-old genetics
and cell biology professor, had checked into a hospital five
days earlier and died within hours. Lab results were positive
for the plague, and the university’s “biosafety fire alarm”
had been triggered, Alexander said.  “The first question was: Do we think this is real,”
Alexander, chief of infectious diseases at the university’s
pediatrics department, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“The answer was yes. So the onus was upon us to do two things;
to notify the health infrastructure and act as if this were a
worst-case scenario.”  That meeting on Sept. 18, 2009, began an investigation into
the medical mystery of Casadaban’s illness that concluded with a
report detailing the events, published yesterday by the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.  Considered Harmless  Casadaban was conducting laboratory research on the
bacterium that causes the plague when he became sick. The germ
was genetically weakened and considered harmless to humans. It
was considered so safe, Casadaban’s work with the live plague
bacteria wasn’t noted when he fell ill,  according to the CDC . A
professor at the university for 30 years, by all accounts he had
followed the proper safety protocols, the report said.  Casadaban’s research focused on describing the chain of
cellular events that occurs as a person is sickened by the
plague bacterium, called  Yersinia pestis . Scientists suspect
that Casadaban may have harbored a previously unknown
vulnerability to the laboratory plague strain that was revealed
only in his death.  An autopsy found the researcher had a medical condition
called  hemochromatosis , which causes an excessive buildup of
iron in the body, according to the CDC report. The disorder
affects about 1 in 400 people and goes unnoticed in about half
of patients.  Casadaban’s illness is important because of the way the
plague bacterium had been weakened. Yersinia pestis needs iron
to survive. Normally it gets this iron by stealing it from a
host’s body with proteins that bind to it and help break it
down. To make the bacterium harmless, scientists genetically
stripped it of the proteins needed to consume iron.  ‘So Much Iron’  “It’s like having a lion, where we took out all its teeth
and all its claws,” Alexander said. “But in the case of Dr.
Casadaban, the lion didn’t even need to have teeth. There was so
much iron that it was freely available and easy to get.”  Plague infects more than 2,000 people worldwide each year,
according to the  World Health Organization  in Geneva. Early
detection and treatment with antibiotics are important, and
about 90 percent of reported cases survive. About 5 to 10 cases
occur in the U.S. each year, passed through rodents and the
fleas that feed on them, the CDC said. The last time a scientist
was sickened by the plague was in 1959, the CDC reported.  The hemochromatosis that contributed to Casadaban’s fate
has been credited with protecting people from strains of plague
that circulate in the wild. Sharon Moalem, an evolutionary
biologist and author of “Survival of the Sickest,” posited
that the disorder shifts iron from certain white blood cells,
where it is typically sought by the plague bacterium.  Genetic Disposition  People of European descent are twice as likely as the rest
of the population to have hemochromatosis, according to previous
studies. That’s because people with the condition were more
likely to survive epidemics of  the bubonic plague  that killed
millions of people in medieval  Europe  and pass the hereditary
condition to their descendants, according to Moalem.  The day plague was diagnosed in  Chicago , researchers tested
the strain to make sure it hadn’t mutated. By a second emergency
meeting that afternoon, high amounts of iron had already been
discovered in Casadaban’s liver, adding credibility to the early
hypothesis of hemochromatosis formed by his colleagues.  The CDC later confirmed the tests with mouse experiments
that proved the strain that killed Casadaban was the same that
has been safely used by hundreds of scientists doing similar
research. The agency is now studying animals to learn how
hemochromatosis may increase susceptibility to infection by
bacteria with weakened iron-acquiring abilities.  Casadaban’s death shows that no matter how a germ has been
hobbled, some people may always be vulnerable, Alexander said.
While research with viruses, bacteria and vaccines that employ
weakened strains should continue, scientists must take
precautions and be aware of hidden vulnerabilities, he said.  “I’m sure that if Dr. Casadaban had had one comment for us
as we sat around that table it was: ‘Listen guys, I’m trying to
teach you something, and you better damn well learn it,’”
Alexander said. “And I think we did.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Tom Randall  in  New York  at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 