-- 
India's Power-Grid Bottleneck May Get Funding in Federal Budget Next Week

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-02-25T02:04:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/power-grid-bottleneck-may-be-tackled-in-indian-budget-next-week.html
Indian clean-energy companies said
the government’s budget next week may provide funding for
extending electricity lines to plug an infrastructure gap that
threatens to isolate new wind farms and solar plants.  “What the entire renewable sector expects from the budget
is some sort of relief on how they’ll evacuate power,” said
Sunil Jain, chief operating officer of  Green Infra Ltd.,  which
acquired BP Plc’s  India   wind-energy  assets in 2009 and is
developing solar, hydropower and biomass projects. “It’s the
biggest obstacle to growth of  renewable energy .”  India’s grid, which loses  28 percent  of the electricity it
carries, reaches only two out of three residents. The
shortcomings threaten to hold up investments and delay projects
in a country whose chronic electricity shortage reached  11
percent  last month, according to government data.  India expects to add about 4,000 megawatts of renewable
power capacity in the next year of which about 70 percent will
come from wind, said Chief Financial Officer Robin Banerjee of  Suzlon Energy Ltd ., India’s biggest wind-turbine maker.  “The entire wind energy proposed for southern  Tamil Nadu 
has no transmission lines or substations,” said K.
Kasthoorirangaian, chairman of the  Indian Wind Power Association ,
referring to the southern state that accounts for 42 percent of
India’s wind capacity. “How will we transmit the power?”  Coal Tax  Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee is set to present on Feb.
28 a budget for the fiscal year ending in March 2012. In last
year’s budget, he announced a carbon tax on domestic and
imported coal to fund clean energy projects that’s forecast to
raise 25 billion rupees ($555 million) in its first year,
revenue that developers want to use.  “They haven’t mentioned what they’re using the money
for,” Suzlon’s Banerjee said in a phone interview. “We’d like
to know how much they’ve collected and where the money is going
to be invested.”  The money may be tapped to fund new transmission lines,
Pramod Deo, chairman of the Central Electricity Regulatory
Commission, said in an interview Feb 21.  Banerjee said the budget also needs to provide clarity on
when India plans to introduce a new  tax code  that will affect
tax benefits on investments. Currently, long-term investments,
such as wind projects, enjoy a tax-holiday on income earned
during the first 10 years, he said.  The budget announcement may provide some clues on whether
that benefit will continue and what may replace it in the new
tax code, Banerjee said.  Wind Subsidy Doubling  The government may announce more funding for the Ministry
of New and Renewable Energy to allow it to raise the subsidy
paid to wind farms based on the amount of power they generate,
Kasthoorirangaian said.  The wind-power industry is lobbying for a doubling of the
“generation-based incentive” subsidy to 1,000 rupees ($22) per
megawatt-hour of power fed into the grid, Kasthoorirangaian said.
The sector is also asking that an overall cap on the subsidy of
6.2 million rupees per megawatt be removed, he said.  The budget is unlikely to provide further incentives to
the solar sector, which has already benefited from special
tariffs and other perks awarded under the government’s Solar
Mission program announced in September, said Jain. Wind and
solar energy companies don’t pay  import duties  on equipment and
expect that benefit to continue, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 