-- 
Protests Across Arab World Gain Momentum as Libyans Revolt Against Qaddafi

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-02-25T16:29:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/protests-across-arab-world-gain-momentum-as-libyans-revolt-against-qaddafi.html
Protesters surged into city centers
across the Middle East and North Africa to demand more rights
today as  Muammar Qaddafi  of  Libya  became the latest regional
autocrat to see his grip on power crumble.  There were demonstrations in Yemen, Jordan, Tunisia,  Egypt 
and  Iraq , with protesters in each country demanding more
accountable governments and better  living standards .  In Yemen, tens of thousands gathered in the capital,
Sana’a, calling for an end to President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s
three-decade rule. Protests there have persisted for 15 days
even as police resorted to tear gas, truncheons and at times
guns, leaving at least seven people dead.  In Tunisia, thousands called for the resignation of Mohamed Ghannouchi, the interim prime minister who was a close ally of
ousted President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali. Mass protests forced
Ben Ali to flee  Tunisia  in January, kicking off a wave of unrest
that spread to Egypt, toppling President Hosni Mubarak after 18
days and now threatening governments across the region.  In Egypt today, Cairo’s Tahrir Square once again filled
with demonstrators, this time demanding the removal of a Cabinet
sworn in on Feb. 22. The protesters were reacting against the
failure of the military rulers who took over from Mubarak to
change the leadership of key ministries, including foreign
affairs, finance and defense.  In Jordan, thousands demanded reforms and protested the use
of force last week to suppress a similar rally. Opposition
leaders blamed the action on “thugs” sent by intelligence
forces. The demonstrators demanded faster social and political
change, and the abolition of the country’s peace treaty with  Israel .  Deaths in Iraq  In Iraq, at least five were killed in the northern city of
Mosul and rallies across the country led to clashes with
security forces, Al-Jazeera reported. Demonstrations demanding
more accountability from elected leaders and better services
have intensified this month, though they began before the
current wave of regional unrest.  Iraq’s senior Shiite Muslim clerics affirmed the right to
peaceful demonstrations. “The constitution guarantees the right
of protests and it is the right of any person to protest
peacefully,” Sheikh Ahmed Al-Safi told thousands gathered at
Imam Hussein Square in the southern city of Karbala today. Al-
Safi is a spokesman for Grand Ayatollah Ali Al Sistani, Iraq’s
top Shiite religious leader.  Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki, who yesterday ordered an
indefinite curfew in  Baghdad , told Iraqis to stay home. While
Iraqis have legitimate demands and their right to protest is
guaranteed, Islamists and members of the former regime’s Baath
party will try to instigate violence, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Benjamin Harvey  in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 