-- 
PTT Chemical, PTT Aromatics Boards Approve Merger Plan

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-02-25T03:18:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/ptt-units-to-merge-create-southeast-asia-s-second-biggest-chemical-group.html
  PTT Chemical Pcl  and  PTT Aromatics &
Refining Pcl , the chemical units of Thailand’s biggest company,
agreed to merge under a plan that would create  Southeast Asia ’s
second-biggest petrochemical group by market value.  PTT Chemical shareholders will receive 1.98 shares in the
merged company for each stock they own, and investors in PTT
Aromatics will get 0.50 shares for every share held, the
companies said today in a statement. PTT Chemical’s shareholders
will vote on the merger on April 21.    PTT Pcl  and its units already account for 24 percent of the
market value of Thailand’s benchmark SET Index, and the new
company would become the country’s fourth largest, behind PTT,
PTT Exploration & Production Pcl and Siam Cement Pcl.  “It will create valued-added synergies and increase
competitiveness,” PTT Chief Executive Officer Prasert Bunsumpun
said at a media briefing today. “The merged company will have
bigger assets, more quality human resources and stronger
financial status, which will support its future expansion. It
will be like a lion with wings.”  The combination of PTT Chemical and PTT Aromatics may have
a market value of $10.9 billion based on current prices, lagging
only  Malaysia ’s  Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd ., valued at $16.4
billion, as Southeast Asia’s biggest petrochemical company,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Small’ Synergies  The merger will create synergies of between $80 million to
$154 million through cost savings and additional value added to
existing products, PTT Chemical said.  “The benefits from synergies appear to be a little bit
small,” Songklod Wongchai, an analyst at Finansia Syrus
Securities Pcl in Bangkok, said by phone today. “In the long
run, the combination will add value for the expansion into high-
margin products. The conversion ratio is in line with the market
expectation.”  The merged company will have revenue this year of 400
billion baht ($13.1 billion), Prasert said in Bangkok. PTT
Chemical and PTT Aromatics had combined revenue of 375 billion
baht last year, he said.  PTT shares have climbed 6.3 percent this year, compared
with a 4.8 percent decline in  Thailand ’s benchmark SET Index.
PTT Chemical gained 2.8 percent to 149.5 baht as of 10:06 a.m.
local time, snapping a three-day decline. PTT Aromatics rose 2.7
percent to 38.25 baht.  PTT to Buy Shares  PTT said it will offer to buy shares from any investors who
oppose the merger, though it doesn’t plan on owning more than 50
percent of the combined company in the long term, according to
its statement.  PTT Chemical hired Kim Eng Securities (Thailand) Pcl to
advise the company on the merger, and PTT Aromatics appointed
Trinity Securities Ltd.  “The merger will benefit the country as it will create a
larger company,” Naris Chaiyasoot, PTT’s acting chairman, said
yesterday. “The merged entity is expected to be the fourth
largest in terms of market capitalization. That will attract
investors and increase their confidence.”  PTT plans to spend 327 billion baht between 2011 and 2015
to expand its business in Thailand and overseas. That expansion
and higher petrochemical prices will help boost sales this year
by 10 percent, Prasert, the chief executive, said on Nov. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  