-- 
Publicis Groupe, MSLGroup Sued for Gender Discrimination

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-02-25T00:36:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/publicis-groupe-mslgroup-sued-for-gender-discrimination-2-.html
  Publicis Groupe SA  and its MSLGroup
unit were sued for allegedly discriminating against female
public relations employees in pay, promotions and firings.  Monique da Silva Moore, a former global health-care
director for MSLGroup filed a gender discrimination suit today
in federal court in New York, claiming that men dominate the
senior management positions at a company where 70 percent of the
employees are women.  “Publicis’s glass ceiling might as well be a cement
wall,” da Silva Moore said in the complaint. “Gender
discrimination permeates Publicis’s entire PR practice.”  According to the complaint, da Silva Moore seeks to
represent a class of hundreds of women who are current and
former public relations employees of Paris-based Publicis and
MSLGroup in the U.S. The suit claims more than $100 million in
damages.  “We generally do not comment on pending litigation, but we
can say that the fact that the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission dismissed Ms. da Silva’s charge reflects the lack of
merit to her claims,” Trudi Harris, a spokeswoman for MSLGroup,
said in an e-mailed statement. She said the company expects the
court will reach the same conclusion.  Janette Wipper, a lawyer for da Silva, said in an e-mailed
statement that the EEOC “did not issue any finding concerning
our client’s charge.” The agency’s investigation has no bearing
on the lawsuit, she said.  Peggy Nahmany, a spokeswoman for Publicis, had no comment
on the suit.  The case is Da Silva Moore v. Publicis Groupe, 11-CV-1279,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York    Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 