-- 
Qaddafi Son Says Family Controls Most of Libya, Al Jazeera Spreading Lies

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-02-25T13:05:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/qaddafi-son-says-family-controls-of-most-of-libya-won-t-leave.html
Muammar Qaddafi’s son Saif al-Islam Qaddafi denied that his family was losing control of vast
swathes of  Libya , blaming Al Jazeera television for spreading
“lies” that make the rebellion look larger than it is.  Most of the country is calm and under the regime’s control,
with the exception of the cities of Misrata and al-Zawiyaa in
the west and Beyda and Derna near Benghazi in the east, Saif al-
Islam said in an interview taped early today in Tripoli with
CNN-Turk television.  Armed groups of “terrorists” in those cities have stolen
tanks from the army, declared their independence, set up
“Mickey Mouse governments” and are broadcasting false news
from  radio stations  there, he said.  Muammar Qaddafi has bolstered defenses in the capital,
Tripoli, and launched counter-strikes against opponents who have
seized much of the rest of the country.  France  and the U.K. will
submit a proposal to the United Nations Security Council today
for an arms embargo and other measures against Libya.  A group of 100 rebels was fighting a population of 550,000
people in Misrata, Qaddafi’s son said, while “at most” 200 to
300 “terrorists” were controlling a region with more than 2
million people in Libya. He said the population can’t defend
itself because the average citizen doesn’t have a gun.  Tripoli, where half of Libya’s population lives, is under
control and is completely “normal,” the younger Qaddafi said.
Benghazi, the second-largest city, where many of the
demonstrations have centered, is “total chaos,” lawless and
uncontrolled, he said. Beyda and Derna have declared independent
“emirates” led by Islamic terrorists, he said.  Young People  The army and air force have attacked ammunition dumps to
prevent them from falling into the hands of the opposition, and
have not attacked civilians, Qaddafi’s son said. He said 242
people have died so far in the unrest, most of them young people
provoked to attack an army barracks in Benghazi.  Libyans have been pleading with the regime to help them get
rid of those behind the revolt, he said. He said the Qaddafis
would never leave Libya.  “We have Plan A, Plan B and Plan C,” he said. “Plan A is
to live and die in Libya. Plan B is to live and die in Libya.
Plan C is to live and die in Libya.”  Oil Fields  He said the regime wouldn’t sabotage the country’s oil
fields, had no problem with peaceful demonstrations and demands
for political rights, and wouldn’t attack its own people.  Saif al-Islam blamed mass defections by Libyan diplomats
and the defection of two air force pilots to Malta on what he
said was false information being broadcast by  Al Jazeera 
television and by rebels controlling radio stations in the
north. He said the stations were affecting the “outlook” for
Libya and influencing a few people in their decision-making.  All of the “lies” were coming from Al Jazeera, which has
its own agenda, he said.  Libya is strong and small armed groups won’t be allowed to
divide the country, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Benjamin Harvey  in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 