-- 
Qaddafi Must Quit Power and UN Must Investigate, Sarkozy Says

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-02-25T16:43:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/qaddafi-must-quit-power-and-un-must-investigate-sarkozy-says.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
urged Libya’s leader  Muammar Qaddafi  to quit power and said the  United Nations  must start an investigation into possible crimes
in the North African nation amid reports that worshippers were
being shot as they left mosques after Friday prayers.  “France’s position is clear, Mr. Qaddafi must go,”
Sarkozy said at a news conference with Turkish President
Abdullah Gul in Ankara today. “The repeated and systematic
violence against the Libyan people is unacceptable and must be
submitted to investigation and sanctions.”  The possibility of civil war in North Africa’s biggest oil
producer pushed crude prices to a 2 1/2-year high and led to
calls for intervention to stop the worst violence yet in two
months of spreading Middle East and North African unrest.  France 
and the U.K. will submit plans for an arms embargo and other
sanctions against Libya at the United Nations Security Council.  Gul said the region “needs immediate peace, democracy,
supremacy of law, human rights and basic freedoms” and that it
must complete the process of change “without allowing in
chaos.” Gul said Turkey is “in constant contact with Libyan
authorities and we make all our sensitivity on this subject
clear.”  Sarkozy said he wants the  International Court of Justice  in
The Hague to examine events in Libya. He called for sanctions
against “those who are continuing to collaborate with Mr.
Qaddafi.”  The French leader cautioned about any foreign military
intervention in Libya because it would fuel “the credibility of
those inside who crazily say that there is a foreign plot” to
overthrow North African and Middle East leaders.  Sarkozy said he spoke yesterday with President  Barack Obama 
about the region’s unrest.  “Without a doubt this is a historical turning point that
no one had predicted,” Sarkozy said. “We must adapt ourselves
to the new geopolitical reality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Ankara at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;  Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  