-- 
Qaddafi Cracks Down on Tripoli as Sarkozy Calls for Departure

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e ,   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-02-25T18:27:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/qaddafi-bolsters-defenses-in-tripoli-as-france-u-k-press-for-sanctions.html
  Muammar Qaddafi  rallied supporters
in his capital, Tripoli, telling them to defend their country
from opposition forces that have consolidated control of the
eastern part of the Libya.  “We will fight and defeat” any foreign intervention and
“defend the oil”, Qaddafi told crowds gathered in Tripoli’s
Green Square, who carried posters and banners supporting him.  “When needed, all the weapons stores will be opened so
that all the Libyan people and the Libyan tribes are armed,” he
said. “Libya will become a fire.”  The prospect of civil war in North Africa’s biggest oil
producer has pushed crude prices to a 2 1/2-year high, and led
to calls for intervention to stop the worst violence yet seen in
two months of spreading unrest across the Middle East and North
Africa.  France  and the U.K. will submit a plan for an arms
embargo and other sanctions against Libya at a meeting of the  United Nations Security Council  today.  “France’s position is clear, Mr. Qaddafi must go,” French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said at a news conference with Turkish
President Abdullah Gul in Ankara today. Sarkozy, the first
leader of a major power to call openly for Qaddafi’s
resignation, said intervention wasn’t a good option.  Tripoli has been gripped by violence today. About 1 million
of Libya’s 6.4 million inhabitants live in Tripoli, according to
a 2006 census.  Shooting in Tripoli  Several people were killed in the capital when security
forces loyal to Qaddafi fired on protesters after worship, Al
Arabiya television said, citing at least three witnesses. The
U.K. government said the route to Tripoli airport is no longer
safe. U.S. Senators  John McCain , an Arizona Republican, and  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent, called on the Obama
administration to back the rebels with weapons.  In his address, Qaddafi vowed to fight his opponents,
saying the rebellion is an outside attempt to take over the
country, a former Italian colony that gained independence in
1951.  “We will defeat them as we defeated  Italy . This is the
power, the undefeated power. Life is worthless without
dignity,” Qaddafi said.  Oil headed for its biggest weekly gain in two years on
concern the turmoil may spread to other parts of the region.
Crude for April delivery gained as much as $1.92 to $99.20 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $96.60 a barrel at 1:42 p.m.  London  time.  Oil Output  Libya normally pumps 1.6 million barrels of oil a day,
selling most of it to  Europe , according to Bloomberg estimates.
That’s about 1.8 percent of world supply.  With the eastern coastline staying under the control of
Qaddafi opponents, the issue now is whether and how he will be
ousted.  “There isn’t a clear endgame here,” Shadi Hamid, director
of research at the Brookings Doha Center in Qatar, said in a
telephone interview. “There isn’t a rebel army marching on
Tripoli attempting to take it over from Qaddafi. The military in
Libya is different than the military in Tunisia and  Egypt . It’s
divided.”  Across the Arab world today, protesters streamed into
squares to demand more rights and government transparency two
weeks after the ouster of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.
Demonstrations took place in Yemen, Jordan, Egypt, Iraq and
Tunisia, the country that sparked the change sweeping the region
last month when President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was ousted.  ‘More Precarious’  Foreign leaders are trying to get their citizens out of  Libya  as Qaddafi digs in. The security situation at Tripoli
airport was “deteriorating” and the journey there was
“becoming more precarious,” the U.K. Foreign Office said in a
statement.  A U.S.-chartered ship left Tripoli for Malta today with
more than 300 passengers, more than half of them Americans, the
State Department said. The departure had been delayed by storms.  The U.K. reported evacuating 350 British nationals and
citizens of 25 other countries yesterday aboard planes and a
British frigate. Turkey has sent passenger ferries and a
military ship, and  China  chartered four passenger ships from
Greece and Malta and 100 buses from Egypt to move 4,600 of an
estimated 30,000 nationals in Libya.  “Britain, through the  United Nations , is pressing for
asset seizures, for travel bans, for sanctions, for all of those
things we can do to hold those people to account, including
investigating for potential crimes against humanity,” Prime
Minister  David Cameron  told reporters in London today.  No-Fly Zone  French Foreign Minister Michele Alliot-Marie, speaking in
an interview on France Info radio, said the sanctions proposal
doesn’t mention a no-fly zone over Libya, though “it’s not
ruled out in the future.” The North Atlantic Treaty
Organization was due to discuss the conflict in a meeting of
ambassadors at NATO headquarters in Brussels today.  President  Barack Obama  consulted with Cameron, Sarkozy and
Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi last night and talked
with Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan today about a
coordinated response to the situation in Libya.  There’s “little chance” of military action by the
countries that would be capable of it, including the U.S., said
Jan Techau, an analyst at the NATO Defense College in  Rome , in a
phone interview.  “Once you intervene, you own the place. Who
do you back? Who are the warring factions? And how do you get
out? The fog of war is extremely dangerous.”  ‘Change of Leadership’  McCain and Lieberman, speaking at a press conference in  Jerusalem  today, urged NATO countries to impose a no-fly zone on
Libyan airbases to prevent air attacks on the anti-Qaddafi
forces. Lieberman said they should get “military support to
complete the change of leadership.”    Switzerland  froze the assets of Qaddafi and his entourage
for three years. U.K. officials have identified billions of
pounds in assets held by Qaddafi in British banks and are
planning to freeze them, the  Daily Telegraph  reported, citing an
unidentified official with knowledge of the matter.  Qaddafi told state television yesterday that “drugged
kids” were responsible for the uprising, under incitement by
foreigners including al-Qaeda. Ambassadors and senior officials
from the judiciary have abandoned the regime, and one of the
leader’s cousins and confidantes, Ahmed Qaddaf al-Dam, defected
to Egypt.  “There isn’t a room for compromise,” said Hamid.
“Mubarak and Ben Ali knew that their time was up. Qaddafi
doesn’t know that his time is up. This means that he has to be
forced out by the army or someone has to kill him.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net 
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  