-- 
Qualcomm Sees Demand Driven by Washers, Cereal Boxes

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-02-25T22:13:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/qualcomm-sees-mobile-chip-demand-powered-by-books-washers-cereal-boxes.html
  Qualcomm Inc ., the biggest maker of
mobile-phone chips, is betting that cereal boxes, washing
machines and children’s books will help drive demand for
powerful processors for mobile devices.  Beginning this year, people will be able to point their
phones at everyday items and bring them to life on screen, such
as in games, advertisements and how-to guides, said  Jay Wright ,
director of business development at San Diego-based Qualcomm.
So-called augmented-reality applications will emerge when the
company releases a new software package next quarter, he said.  The market for these specialized apps is projected to grow
to $3 billion by 2016 from $21 million last year, according to
 ABI Research . As demand for augmented-reality surges, so will
the need for processors that can handle demanding computing
tasks at higher speeds, Qualcomm says.  “It’s tremendously computational intensive,” Wright said
in an interview. “This is something that wasn’t possible until
we had gigahertz-class processors.”  Augmented reality in a phone works by scanning each frame
from the camera, looking for a known image by comparing it
against a database on the device, then drawing graphics on top
of that image, all at 30 frames per second, he said.  For example, the winning app in a recent competition for
Qualcomm developers was for a game called “ Paparazzi .” The
game shows a vain celebrity superimposed over whatever the phone
is pointed at.  Virtual Photographer  The player becomes a virtual photographer who has to take
photos before the celebrity gets agitated and attacks. The
game’s two Lithuanian developers received $125,000, Qualcomm
said last week.  While most phones that run Google Inc.’s Android software
are capable of running some form of augmented reality software,
they aren’t powerful enough to deal with programs that recognize
more than one object at a time, limiting the uptake of the
software until more capable chips come to market.  By making the software free and open to other chipmakers’
products, Qualcomm also risks helping its competitors if its
processors can’t establish a lead in performance.  While games will lead the augmented-reality apps market for
now -- because they are the fastest-growing type of mobile apps
-- eventually the technology will expand to more functions,
driven by the advertising industry, Wright said.  Consumers Get Informed  In the future, a shopper might walk down a supermarket
aisle and point a phone at items on the shelf. The phone would
then display discounts, related ads or product information, he
said. Pointing the phone at a children’s cartoon book could make
an animated character come to life.  Augmented reality will also return to its roots as an
instructional tool, Wright said. The technology was developed
for aircraft maintenance, where mechanics would wear special
glasses with wiring diagrams projected onto the lenses.  A consumer application of the technology will come in the
form of an onscreen guide to everyday devices such as a washing
machine. By pointing the phone at the controls, the user would
be shown step-by-step-instructions on setting different wash
cycles, Wright said.  “There are some very practical applications for the
technology,” Wright said. “We are going to see those
commercially available this year.”  Qualcomm said earlier his month that it will begin sending
samples of more powerful versions of its  Snapdragon  mobile-phone
processors to customers this year.  Research Effort  Snapdragon competes with products from Marvell Technology
Group Ltd.,  Nvidia Corp ., Texas Instruments Inc. and  Intel Corp .
in the market for chips that run software in handsets such as
Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  Qualcomm says it has the world’s largest research effort in
the technology, including a center in Vienna. The company plans
to make the software free to developers and won’t confine its
use to Qualcomm chips, said Matt Grob, Qualcomm’s head of
research and development.  “We really feel adoption is critical and to that end we’re
making it easy,” Grob said.  Qualcomm rose $1.22, or 2.1 percent, to $59.02 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has
gained 19 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  