-- 
Rajaratnam May Find Guidance in Accused Insider’s 2005 Acquittal

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-02-25T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/rajaratnam-may-find-guidance-in-accused-insider-s-2005-acquittal.html
Justin Voss knew the only way he’d
defeat  insider-trading  charges and avoid prison was to take the 
witness stand and testify. He did, and days later jurors 
acquitted him.  “If you’re in an insider-trading case, you’re almost
forced to prove your innocence,” Voss, 70, said in an interview
from his home in Lake Wales,  Florida . “They think, if the
government is going to bring this guy to trial, he must have
done something. And most people don’t understand the stock
market.”  Former Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who
goes on trial March 8, may reach the same conclusion that Voss
did when he battled insider trading charges in  Ohio  in 2005.
Nothing is more important to the defense than persuading jurors
that there were legitimate reasons for stock trades, Voss’s
lawyer, Frank Razzano, said.  “Insider-trading charges are among the most difficult
charges to beat,” Razzano said in an interview. “The
government has your guy trading, making money and knowing the
insider. The only way to do it is if there’s an equally
plausible explanation” from the defense for why stocks were
traded.  Centerpiece  Rajaratnam’s trial will be the centerpiece of a U.S.
crackdown on hedge fund insider trading. Since Oct. 16, 2009,
when Rajaratnam and five others were arrested, U.S. prosecutors
in  New York  have brought criminal charges against more than
three dozen traders, corporate executives, and employees of
expert-networking firms. About two dozen have pleaded guilty.  Rajaratnam, 53, denies wrongdoing.  Acquittals of insider-trading defendants are rare. In  Manhattan , where Rajaratnam will stand trial on multiple counts
of conspiracy and securities fraud, the four insider-trading
trials since 2003 ended in convictions. One of those was
reversed by the trial judge, who said there wasn’t enough
evidence to convict.  Voss is among the few accused insider traders in the U.S.
to be cleared. His defense is similar to that of Rajaratnam, who
says his trades were based on Galleon research. Both cases were
brought amid public hostility towards  Wall Street .  “It’s the same defense -- that I developed the research on
my own,” Razzano said. “It’s a similar climate.”  Adviser’s Duty  Rajaratnam’s lawyers have said they plan to argue at the
trial that it was his duty as an  investment adviser  to “ferret
out” information and speak to corporate insiders as he
researched companies.  At the same time, Rajaratnam may have a tougher time than
Voss establishing his defense. The government’s case against him
includes wiretaps of 173 of his phone conversations and
testimony from Rajaratnam’s friends and business partners that
they tipped him.  A retired economics professor, Voss was among five people
who went on trial in 2005 in federal court in Columbus, Ohio,
for trading on tips leaked by Roger Blackwell, a director of
Worthington Foods Inc., before its 1999 acquisition by  Kellogg
Co . for $307 million. Voss and another man were acquitted.
Blackwell, a professor at  Ohio State University  for 40 years,
was convicted with two others. He is serving a six-year prison
term.  Worthington Foods  The government’s main target was Blackwell, who was also an
author, consultant, expert on consumer behavior and member of
numerous boards. Prosecutors indicted him in 2004, alleging that
he tipped partners, family and friends to the buyout, and they
charged Voss, who’d known Blackwell since high school, with
conspiring to trade on the leaks and passing the tips to others.  Voss earned $417,831 through his trades, the largest profit
among the group of defendants, the U.S. said.  The case didn’t reach jurors until 2005, almost six years
after Voss bought 38,000 shares of Worthington Foods. By then,
he’d withstood years of scrutiny by the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , questioning by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, and offers from prosecutors that he plead guilty and
testify against Blackwell.  Investigators even tried to get Voss’s brother to
incriminate him, Voss said.  “Every time you stepped into the courtroom, it was like
you were stepping into a separate world,” said Voss, a robust
man with a head of thick blond hair. “They would take itsy-
bitsy pieces of evidence and weave it together” to show
wrongdoing, he said.  The Trial  Unlike his co-defendants, one of whom was terrified to go
on trial, Voss said he was his usual chatty and wisecracking
self as the trial began in May 2005. “If I can get before a
jury of my peers and tell my story, they will find me not
guilty,” he said he told himself. Still, the case became his
obsession, and he and Razzano reviewed documents late into each
evening after the day’s testimony. He listened in silence as
Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Marous told jurors that
“crimes” by “co-conspirators” included even a “coverup.”  Fred Alverson, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Carter Stewart
in Columbus, declined to comment.  The 1999 takeover of Worthington, Ohio-based Worthington
Foods spurred government suspicion of widespread insider
trading, and authorities zeroed in on Blackwell, according to
trial evidence. Analyzing phones calls and stock trades,
prosecutors began building a case against Blackwell and those
close to him. Blackwell’s ex-wife became a government witness.  Circumstantial Evidence  At the trial, no one testified that Blackwell had tipped
Voss, who began buying shares two weeks before the takeover
became public. Instead, prosecutors presented circumstantial
evidence of phone calls between the two and of Voss’s sudden
interest in the company. They said the tips may have come during
Voss’s June visit to Blackwell’s home while other suitors were
expressing interest in the food company.  Razzano said he knew the evidence was weak but feared his
client would be convicted anyway. Law students in a class he
taught had evaluated the case and concluded Voss was guilty.  “Jurors will say, ‘You made a lot of money without a lot
of work,’” said Razzano, a former federal prosecutor in  New
Jersey  and now a partner at  Pepper Hamilton LLP  in  Washington .
“They’ll say, ‘He knew the guy, he traded right before the
event.”  It was essential that Voss testify, Razzano said, but he
fretted whether jurors would like Voss and how Voss would
perform under the pressure of the witness stand.  “If the jury says, ‘I don’t like the looks of him,’ you’re
dead,” Razzano said.  Nervous  Eager to tell his story, Voss was also nervous. He said he
feared that he’d fail to follow Razzano’s instructions on how to
conduct himself on the stand. Settling into the witness box, he
began by recounting his life history and of his years trading
stocks, then acknowledged that Blackwell had spoken positively
of Worthington Foods. It was essential that Voss do so, Razzano
said, for the jury would never believe that he and Blackwell
didn’t discuss the company.  Merely because Blackwell had praised Worthington Foods
didn’t mean Blackwell had tipped him, Voss said. Guided by his
lawyer, Voss reminded jurors that he had a doctorate in
economics and knew how to scrutinize a balance sheet. After
hearing a news report that summer about consolidation in the  food industry , he flipped on his computer and began researching
Worthington Foods, he testified.  The company had strong earnings and was undervalued, Voss
told jurors. The recent decline in share price was an anomaly
due to high advertising costs as it pushed into new markets, he
testified. Amid the frenzy over technology stocks, Voss thought
investors had ignored a gem.  Heavy Buying  Most important, Voss observed that its shares generally
rose at the end of each earnings period. He began to buy
heavily, mostly with broker loans. Coincidentally, he said, his
buying preceded the merger announcement.  “The consensus was 22, and it was sitting at 12,” Voss
said of analysts’ projected share price. “If it increased a
quarter of a point, I’d make money. How can you lose?”  On cross-examination, Voss fielded questions about a 29-
minute phone call he had with Blackwell after learning that
regulators were probing the trades. Voss said they were
discussing a possible social visit. He believed he parried the
prosecutor’s questions.  “I knew more about investment than that attorney would
ever know,” Voss said in the interview.  Decision to Testify  Rajaratnam’s spokesman,  Jim McCarthy , declined to comment
on whether his client would testify in his defense. Many
defendants don’t make that decision until after hearing the
government’s evidence.  Rajaratnam submitted to a day of questioning by the SEC in
2007, telling the agency that his stock picks were based on
research and denying that he used inside information.  “Has Galleon ever made a trade on the basis of non-public
information?” an SEC lawyer asked him. “Not to my knowledge,”
Rajaratnam responded, according to a transcript of the
deposition.  Confident throughout the trial of an acquittal, Voss grew
fearful listening to the jury’s staccato repetition of
“guilty” for most counts against Blackwell, who also
testified. With the first “not guilty” for a co-defendant,
Voss knew he’d be cleared.  His eyes teared with his acquittal.  “It was the way everyone feels after they’ve finished
their last exam,” the former professor said. “It was like I
passed.”  Rajaratnam faces a similar test, starting March 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 