-- 
Treasury 3-Month Bill Rates Rise Most Since July Amid Unexpected Issuance

-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-02-25T20:55:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/treasury-3-month-bill-rates-increase-most-this-week-since-july.html
Rates on three-month U.S. bills,
among the most sought securities during times of turmoil, rose
this week by the most since July as the Treasury Department
unexpectedly increased the amount of securities available.  The rate on  U.S. government debt  maturing in three months
rose about three basis points to 0.122 percent from 0.089
percent on Feb. 18. The securities touched 0.0821 percent on
Feb. 17, the lowest level since June 17.  The Treasury sold $25 billion of 49-day cash management
bills on Feb. 23 for the first time since Jan. 26 to fund its
Supplementary Financing Program. The sale came after the
Treasury announced that it was reducing its borrowing on behalf
of the Fed because of concern the federal debt limit won’t be
extended. It also sold $40 billion of four-week bills the same
day after increasing the size of the sale by $5 billion.  “When Treasury announced they were rolling off SFP bills,
the sector richened on the expectation of lower supply,” said
Michael Purcell, a trader at Citigroup Inc. in  New York . “The
announcement that they were going to auction another $25 billion
of cash management bills caused a selloff on the increased
supply, which was unexpected.”  While three-month bills fell, Treasury 10-year notes headed
for the biggest weekly gain since May as unrest in  Libya  drove
investors to the safety of U.S. government debt. The yield on
the 10-year Treasury fell 16 basis points to 3.42 percent, the
most since the five days ended May 21.  The amount of bills started declining after the Treasury
began to allow its 56-day SFP bills to roll off as they matured
as part of their plan to cut the amount outstanding from $200
billion to $5 billion by around the end of March. Treasury will
sell $5 billion in securities to keep the program balance from
dropping to zero.  The balance in the Treasury’s Supplementary Financing
account began to decline as of Feb. 3 as outstanding so-called
SFP bills matured and were not rolled over. When the Treasury
sells bills at the Fed’s behest through the SFP, it drains
reserves from the banking system and makes the central bank’s
job of controlling  interest rates  easier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexandra Harris in New York at 
 Aharris48@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  