-- 
Treasuries Head for Biggest Weekly Gain Since May on Libya, Revised Growth

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-02-25T22:24:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/treasuries-snap-gain-on-speculation-economic-growth-confidence-improved.html
Treasury 10-year notes had the
biggest weekly gain since May as unrest in  Libya  drove investors
to the safety of  U.S. government debt  and raised concern that
surging  oil prices  may stall the economy recovery.  Yields on the benchmark securities fell for a second day
after the Commerce Department reported slower-than-forecast
fourth-quarter U.S. economic growth. Thirty-year bond yields
were at the lowest in a month even as stocks rose and the Swiss
franc depreciated amid reduced refuge demand. Treasuries also
firmed as the  Federal Reserve  bought $7.2 billion of government
debt maturing from May 2018 to February 2021 as part of its $600
billon plan to sustain the expansion.  “No one wants to be short this market, given the event
risk coming from the Middle East,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-
income strategist and economist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
in Philadelphia, which manages $12 billion in fixed income
assets. “Over the weekend liquidity goes away, but event risk
doesn’t, so you don’t want to be caught offside.”  The yield on the 10-year Treasury fell four basis points to
3.41 percent as of 5:05 p.m. in  New York , according to BGCantor
Market Data. The 3.625 percent note maturing in February 2021
rose 9/32, or $2.81 per $1,000 of face value, to 101 24/32.  Ten-year yields are down 17 basis points this week, the
most since the five-days ended May 21, 2010.  Stocks, Oil  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 index rose 1.1 percent. Crude oil
futures for April delivery in New York rose 14 percent this week
to $98.31 a barrel, and touched $103.41 yesterday, the highest
level since September 2008.  Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  rallied supporters in the
capital, Tripoli, today telling them to defend their country
from opposition forces that have consolidated control of the
eastern part of Libya. The U.S.,  Saudi Arabia  and the  International Energy Agency  said yesterday they can compensate
for any disruption to crude supplies caused by turmoil in  Africa ’s third-largest oil producer.  Longer-term Treasuries have rallied as “each $5 oil rise
decreases gross domestic product by 0.2 percent to 0.3 percent
if these higher prices are sustained,” Lebas said.  The yield curve, the difference in yields between two- and
10-year notes, narrowed the most since the week ending on Aug.
13 to 270 basis points. The difference has narrowed 13 basis
points this week.  Treasury Returns  Treasuries have handed investors a loss of 0.3 percent this
month and this year, compared with a gain of 5.9 percent last
year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, slower than previously calculated and less than
forecast as state and local governments made deeper cuts in
spending.  The revised increase in gross domestic product compares
with a 3.2 percent estimate issued last month and a 2.6 percent
gain in the third quarter, figures from the Commerce Department
showed today in  Washington . The economy, excluding inventories,
grew at a 6.7 percent pace, the most since 1998.  “We had a downward revision, which wasn’t anticipated,”
said Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist in New York at primary
dealer Mizuho Financial Group Inc. “It’s what happens with oil
that’s going to drive the market.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. revised down its first-quarter growth
estimate for the U.S. economy to an annual rate of 3.5 percent
from a prior forecast of 4 percent, according to chief U.S.
economist  Michael Feroli .  “Consumers stumbled a bit to start the year,” Feroli
wrote in a note e-mailed to clients today. “The recent rise in
energy prices poses a notable headwind.”  The difference between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, widened to 2.44
percentage points yesterday, the most since April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  