-- 
Three German States Say Inflation Accelerated in February

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-02-25T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/three-german-states-say-inflation-accelerated-in-february-1-.html
Inflation in three German states
accelerated in February, driven by higher energy costs.  In Brandenburg, the inflation rate rose to 1.8 percent from
1.5 percent in January, the state’s statistics office in Potsdam
said today. In Hesse, the rate climbed to 1.8 percent from 1.6
percent, and in Saxony it increased to 2.2 percent from 1.9
percent.  Economists forecast German inflation, calculated using a
harmonized European method, will quicken to 2.1 percent from 2
percent, the median of 31 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
shows. That report, based on data from six states, is due later
today.    Oil prices  have surged 35 percent in the past six months,
surpassing $100 a barrel, and may rise further amid political
tensions in the Middle East and North Africa, a region that
accounts for 36 percent of global crude output. With the euro
area’s recovery gaining strength, due largely to  Germany ’s
booming economy, European Central Bank officials have expressed
concern that workers will seek compensation for rising prices,
entrenching faster inflation.  “Inflation pressure in Germany will rise in coming months;
we could imagine an inflation rate of 2.8 percent in autumn,”
said Ulrich Kater, chief economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. The
ECB, which aims to keep euro-area inflation just below 2
percent, “must remain alert as it will miss its goal this
year,” he said.  Tougher Language  ECB council member Yves Mersch said in an interview
published Feb. 22 that policy makers may toughen their language
on inflation at their meeting on March 3, indicating a readiness
to raise  interest rates  in coming months.  The ECB has kept its benchmark interest rate at a record
low of 1 percent for almost two years. Next week, the ECB will
publish new economic projections and may lift its 2011 inflation
forecast to more than 2 percent from the 1.8 percent it
predicted in December, according to Mersch.  Euro-area inflation jumped to 2.4 percent last month.  In Saxony, consumer prices rose 0.5 percent from January,
today’s report showed. Food prices rose 4.1 percent from a year
earlier, while heating oil costs jumped 30.5 percent.  Germany’s economy,  Europe ’s largest, may expand 2.5 percent
this year, Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  said this week. It
grew 3.6 percent in 2010, the most since reunification two
decades ago.  Business Confidence  German business confidence unexpectedly rose to a record
high this month and growth in Europe’s service and manufacturing
industries accelerated to the fastest pace in more than four
years, led by stronger output in Germany.    Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s largest maker of
luxury cars, said on Feb. 4 it expects “significant” sales
increases in the first half of this year on demand in Asia and
the U.S.  German producer-price inflation accelerated to 5.7 percent
in January, the fastest pace in more than two years.  “Faster inflation could very well prove more persistent
than expected,”  Bundesbank  board member Andreas Dombret said
yesterday. “Second-round effects cannot be excluded. Hence, the
medium-term upside risks for price stability have increased.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  