-- 
Related Sells Manhattan’s Sagamore as Apartment Demand Climbs

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-02-25T17:47:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/related-sells-manhattan-s-sagamore-building-as-apartment-demand-increases.html
Related Cos., the  New York  developer
founded by billionaire Stephen Ross, and a partner sold the
luxury  Sagamore  apartment building on Manhattan’s Upper West
Side as investor demand for multifamily properties surges.  The 265-unit building went under contract this month for
$140 million, according to a person with knowledge of the
bidding who asked not to be named because details of the
transaction are private. The buyer is a unit of Chicago-based
private-equity firm  LaSalle Investment Management .  “With the sale of the Sagamore, we recognized an
opportunity to both extract value for Related and our partners
and to reinvest the capital into our acquisition and development
initiatives,” Bruce Beal Jr., executive vice president of
Related, said in an e-mailed statement. He declined to comment
on the price for the 12-year-old building.  The deal is the largest by price for a Manhattan
multifamily property since March, according to data from  Real
Capital Analytics Inc.  in New York. Demand for apartments is
climbing as the city’s rental market tightens. Leases almost
tripled in the fourth quarter and median rents rose 1.7 percent
from a year earlier to $2,950, appraiser  Miller Samuel Inc . and
broker Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate said last month.  Many Bidders  The sale generated interest among at least 15 “qualified”
bidders, said Doug Harmon, senior managing director at  Eastdil
Secured LLC  in New York, who represented Related and its joint
venture partner for the Sagamore, the State Teachers Retirement
System of  Ohio .  “The depth and breadth of offers we received demonstrates
the unwavering and aggressive support for New York City, luxury,
multifamily rental product,” Harmon said.  Matt Jordan, senior vice president at  LaSalle Investment
Management , declined to comment. The company has also purchased
multifamily properties in  Los Angeles  and  Washington , D.C., in
the past year, according to Real Capital.  The Sagamore, located on West 89th Street near Amsterdam
Avenue, is a so-called 80/20 building, in which 80 percent of
the apartments are rented at market rate and the other 20
percent are reserved for low-income tenants. Those renters must
earn no more than 50 percent of area median income, according to
 guidelines  on the website of the  New York City  Housing
Development Corp. That limits the eligible income to about
$39,000 for a family of four, according to the department.  Under the program, developers agree to set aside the
affordable units in exchange for tax-exempt bonds to finance
construction.  $2,995 for Studio  Market-rate apartments  advertised  for rent at the Sagamore
range from $2,995 for an alcove studio to $3,550 for a one-
bedroom, one bathroom unit, according to the property’s website.
The building also features two-bedroom apartments with dining
areas and home offices.  Average rents on the Upper West Side in January ranged from
$1,778 for a studio to $5,795 for a three-bedroom apartment,
according to brokerage  Citi Habitats .  “The Upper West Side is co-op country,” Harmon said.
“It’s a strong win to now own one of the very few, high-end
luxury rental buildings in that tight submarket”.  The Sagamore, which includes a 17,000-square-foot (1,580
square-meter) parking garage and 8,000 square feet of retail
space, has net operating income of about $7.5 million a year,
according to the building’s sales offering plan.  The $140 million sale price is the largest for a  Manhattan 
multifamily building since Chicago-based  Equity Residential , the
biggest publicly traded apartment owner in the U.S., bought
Longacre House on West 50th Street for $142.7 million, according
to Real Capital.  Triple Dollar Volume  The dollar volume of Manhattan apartment sales more than
doubled in 2010 from a year earlier to $2.13 billion, according
to Real Capital Analytics. About 100 properties changed hands, a
41 percent increase from 2009.  Manhattan apartment investors in 2010 were willing to pay
an average of $305,679 per unit, or 22 percent more than what
they agreed to pay in 2009. Nationally, multifamily investors
paid about $111,743 per apartment unit, Real Capital said.  “It’s a significant sale,”  Ben Thypin , an analyst at Real
Capital, said of the Sagamore. “It’s trading at a fairly big
price per unit, although it’s consistent with recent sales of
this magnitude.  “It’s also a reflection of Manhattan being in much better
shape than the rest of the country,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  