-- 
Reliance Communications Falls to Record Amid Wireless Probe

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-02-25T11:16:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/reliance-communications-falls-to-record-amid-wireless-probe-1-.html
  Reliance Communications Ltd ., the
worst-performing stock in India’s benchmark Sensex Index this
year, tumbled to a record low in Mumbai trading amid a probe by
investigators into the 2008 auction of phone licenses.  India’s second-largest mobile-phone operator dropped 5.3
percent to 87.45 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. Gaurav Wahi, a spokesman for Reliance Communications, didn’t answer two
calls made to his mobile phone.  Reliance Communications has lost 40 percent of its market
value this year as the Central Bureau of Investigation extended
a probe into the allocation of airwaves and questioned chief
executives of phone companies, including Reliance
Communications’ Chairman Anil Ambani. The stock fell 14.3
percent on Feb. 9, prompting Ambani to blame brokers for
spreading “baseless, sensational” charges.  “The market mood is very nervous,” said Jagannadham
Thunguntla, chief strategist at SMC Capital Ltd., which manages
$100 million in stocks. “Market participants are feeling very
restless when it comes to any sort of uncertainty.”  The CBI arrested former telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja  and at least two other officials on Feb. 2 after
the nation’s chief auditor said in November the sale of permits
at below-market prices may have potentially cost the treasury
$31 billion.  Investigators have said in court that Raja conspired to
benefit companies including Swan Telecom Ltd., now known as
Etisalat DB Telecom Pvt., and  Unitech Ltd . by violating
guidelines in the license sale. Last week, Raja was sent to jail
for two weeks following his interrogation.  Ambani’s  Reliance Infrastructure Ltd ., which operates
India’s first privately run urban-train service, fell 4.3
percent to 637.55 rupees.  Reliance Power Ltd . lost 1.5 percent
to 109.10 rupees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  