-- 
Rice Surges Limit as Leaders Seek to Avoid Food-Price Inflation

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-02-25T17:58:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/rice-rebounds-as-governments-build-supplies-after-inflation-sparked-riots.html
Rice, the staple food for half the
world, rallied by the daily limit from a four-day losing streak
in  Chicago  as governments boosted stockpiles to curb prices that
sparked protests in North Africa and the Middle East.    Bangladesh , South Asia’s biggest buyer, said it’s seeking
supply from  India  as part of more regular grain purchases to
bolster food security. Japan bought 68,000 metric tons of rice
from the U.S.,  Australia  and Thailand in a tender two days ago.  “When we go for international tenders and prices suddenly
rise, private suppliers sometimes fail to fulfill their
commitments,” Muhammad Abdur Razzaque, the Bangladeshi food
minister, said in an interview yesterday. “They don’t supply us
and put us in trouble. It has happened.”  Rice traded in Chicago has gained 48 percent since the end
of June, part of a surge in agriculture prices that the  United
Nations  says drove world food prices to a record last month.
Costs jumped as floods from  Canada  to Australia and droughts in  China  and Russia ruined crops.  Rice for May delivery rose 50 cents, or 3.6 percent, to
$14.31 per 100 pounds at 11:45 a.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade. The grain climbed 8.5 percent in January.  The grain represents almost 50 percent of food costs of the
poorest across the developing world and 20 percent of total
household spending, according to the International Rice Research
Institute, based in Los Banos, the Philippines. In the U.S., 6
percent of incomes are spent on groceries, data from Euromonitor
International show.    Morocco  to Yemen  The past year’s 28 percent jump in global food costs
estimated by the UN helped spark protests from Morocco to Yemen
this year, toppling leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt . That’s driven
governments to accelerate purchases of grains and other foods to
bolster reserves.  Egypt bought 120,000 tons of wheat from  France  and 115,000
tons from the U.S. this week. Iraq tendered for 100,000 tons of
wheat this week and Saudi Arabia may buy 275,000 tons of milling
wheat, CME Group Inc. said in a report on its website.  The World Bank said this month 44 million people have been
pushed into extreme poverty since June as food shortages lifted
the UN food-price gauge.  Farmers may sow 2.9 million acres of rice in the U.S. when
planting begins in April, down 19 percent from a year earlier
and below a forecast on Feb. 11 of 3.3 million acres, the USDA
said yesterday. Analysts anticipated a decline of 25 percent as
farmers switch to more-profitable corn, soybeans and cotton,
according to a Bloomberg News survey in January.  Rice had slid 8.4 percent this week at yesterday’s close.
Recent declines by grains and oilseeds are “unsustainable” and
will increase demand for crops and boost prices, Luke Chandler,
London-based global head of agricultural commodities research
for Rabobank International, said yesterday in a report.  “We’re seeing a lot of interest from wheat importers
looking to tender and increasing activity from commercials,” he
said in an interview on Feb. 23. “Across the grains and
oilseeds complex, the likelihood is that the highs are ahead of
us. That suggest food prices and the FAO Index will remain
heightened throughout the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  