-- 
Richemont's Chloe Says China Will Surpass Japan as Top Market in Two Years

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-25T10:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/richemont-s-chloe-planning-to-add-four-stores-in-china-this-year-ceo-says.html
Chloe, the French fashion label
owned by Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, said  China  will become
the company’s biggest market in two years as it adds more stores
in the world’s fastest growing major economy.  “We expect that within two years China will be the number
one market for Chloe,” surpassing Japan, Chief Executive
Officer Geoffroy De La Bourdonnaye said in an interview in  Shanghai  today. Four Chloe stores will be added in China this
year, taking the total number in the nation to 13, he said.  Chloe joins luxury labels including  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA  and Bally International AG in opening more
stores in the world’s second-largest economy as growth in  Asia 
outpaces the U.S. and  Europe . The Greater China region,
comprising mainland China, Hong Kong and  Taiwan , will become the
biggest market for  luxury goods  by 2020 as rising incomes spur
demand, CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets said this month.  “China is not just catching up with the world, I think now
it’s leading in many ways,” said De La Bourdonnaye, who became
CEO in September. The fashion label plans to add 10 stores
worldwide this year, taking the total to 150, he said.  Chloe’s parent Richemont, the world’s largest jewelry maker
and owner of brands including Baume & Mercier, Cartier and
Shanghai Tang, faces competition from other luxury labels in
China. The nation overtook Japan to become Asia’s largest
economy last year.  Luxury Competition  Italian fashion house Prada SpA said last month it will
start the process for selling shares in an initial public
offering in  Hong Kong .  Bally, the Swiss luxury shoemaker, expects sales growth of
10 percent or more in China and Hong Kong in 2011, Dinesh Tandon, chief executive officer of North Asian operations, said
Nov. 18. It plans to open at least five outlets this year in
China and Hong Kong, bringing the total to 70, he said.  LVMH plans to open a Zenith watch shop in Hong Kong and De
Beers diamond stores in that city and in Beijing this year, the
company said this month.  China’s per capita urban household disposable income rose
to 19,109 yuan ($2,910) last year, data from the nation’s bureau
of statistics show.  The number of middle-income and affluent consumers in China
will almost triple to 415 million in 10 years, the Boston
Consulting Group Inc. said in November. The consulting company
defines middle-income and affluent consumers as those whose
annual household income exceeds 60,000 yuan.  Chloe’s China headcount will double to 70 by November, said
Sophia Wu, a general manager at the company.  -  Michael Wei . Editors: Lena Lee, Suresh Seshadri.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  