-- 
Rio, BHP May Raise Second-Quarter Contract Iron Ore Prices 23%

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-25T08:41:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/rio-bhp-may-raise-second-quarter-contract-iron-ore-prices-23-.html
Rio Tinto Group and  BHP Billiton
Ltd ., the world’s second- and third-largest  iron ore  exporters,
may raise contract prices about 23 percent in the second quarter
from the first as spot prices hit a record, according to
calculations based on The Steel Index pricing.  The price of 62-percent iron ore arriving at Tianjin port
averaged $178.03 a metric ton, including shipping, from Dec. 1
to Feb. 24, compared with $149.91 in the previous three months,
according to The Steel Index. The price rose to $191.9 a ton on
Feb. 16, the highest level since the data became available in
November 2008. Average shipping costs fell to $7.3 a ton in the
December-February period from $11.26 in previous three months.  Steel prices in  China  climbed to 4,961 yuan a metric ton on
Feb. 15, the highest since Sept. 2008, enabling steelmakers to
expand profit margins and pass on higher raw material costs.  “With the quarterly price hike, Chinese steelmakers are
still making profits under the current steel prices,” said
Henry Liu, a Hong Kong-based analyst with Mirae Asset Securities
Co. “But steel prices may incur a substantial correction in
April due to increasing credit curbs and an industry
overcapacity.”  Quarterly prices are typically based on figures derived by
deducting freight costs from the three-month average of iron ore
price indexes provided either by The Steel Index, Platts or
Metal Bulletin with a one-month lag period.  Pricing Options  Rio, BHP and Rio De Janeiro-based  Vale SA , the biggest iron
ore supplier, abandoned annual pricing last year in favor of
quarterly agreements as spot prices rose. BHP offers various
pricing options including quarterly, monthly and weekly pricing
as well as auctions to mills, according to Mysteel Research
Institute analyst Tang Xiaolan and Mirae’s Liu.  Rio Tinto spokesman Bruce Tobin declined to comment on
likely price increases when contacted today. Fiona Martin, a
spokeswoman for BHP, also declined to comment.  China’s steel inventories held by traders increased 11
percent to 14.72 million metric tons by the end of January from
a month ago, reaching the highest level since October, the China
Iron and Steel Association said last week, as private
steelmakers have been running at full capacity on higher prices.  BHP fell 0.1 percent to close at A$45.95, and Rio was down
0.4 percent at A$83.93 on the Australian stock exchange. Baoshan
Iron & Steel Co., China’s biggest listed steelmaker, fell 1.3
percent to close at 6.85 yuan in  Shanghai .  Metal Bulletin  Second-quarter prices may increase 24 percent, according to
data compiled by Metal Bulletin, which tracks 62-percent iron
content ore arriving at China’s Qingdao Port. The average price
has risen to $175.28 a ton for the period from Dec. 1 through
Feb. 23, compared with $146.65 in the previous three months.  Contract iron ore prices rose about 7 percent in the
January quarter after falling 13 percent in the prior three
months.  The price Rio charges steelmakers may rise about 34 percent
in the second quarter from the previous three months based on
the Platts index dated to Feb. 18, according to an e-mailed
document sent by Platts via its public relation agency. The
prices are measured in dry metric tons which exclude a typical 8
percent moisture of iron ore.  --Helen Yuan, with assistance from Rebecca Keenan in  Melbourne .
Editors: Alan Soughley, Indranil Ghosh  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 