-- 
Romanian Government Seeks Confidence Vote on Labor, Boc Told TVR

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-02-25T06:47:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/romanian-government-seeks-confidence-vote-on-labor-boc-told-tvr.html
  Romania ’s government will seek a
confidence vote in Parliament next week as it plans a fast-track
approval of labor legislation changes, Prime Minister Emil Boc
said late yesterday at the public television station TVR.  The opposition parties will probably try to oust Boc
through a no-confidence motion, the head of the social-democrats
Victor Ponta said last week. Boc said the ruling coalition
agreed on the vote and he is optimistic that the changes will be
approved and his government will survive.  Boc, who survived four no-confidence votes in 2010 over his
administration’s austerity measures, is counting on a majority
of 249 votes in a 470-seated Parliament to survive. The
opposition needs 236 votes to oust the government. President
Traian Basescu said on Feb. 15 that the cabinet needed “another
governing style” and he opened talks with coalition parties to
regain confidence in the government.  A decision on potential changes in the government will be
made after the junior coalition party of ethnic Hungarians holds
internal elections on Feb. 26-27, Basescu said.  “I think the changes in the labor legislation will pass,
I’m not scared of a new no-confidence vote” Boc told TVR.
“Through these changes we try to make the labor market more
flexible, introduce contracts for temporary workers and increase
sanctions for black market labor while insuring higher social
protection for the employees.”  The government also plans to reduce the social
contributions for health, pension and unemployment this year and
the percentage will depend on the economic situation, Boc said.  The ruling coalition, facing elections next year, lost
public support after public-pay cuts and tax increases to
qualify for the bailout. The economy contracted on an annual
basis for an eighth quarter in the final three months of last
year. The government forecasts 1.5 percent growth this year.  Backing for Boc’s  Liberal Democratic Party  was cut in half
in a year to 18 percent, after it pushed through the austerity
measures, according to a poll conducted on Jan. 8 and Jan. 9 by
the Bucharest-based polling company CCSB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  