-- 
Ruben Blades, Salsa King Spice Up Lehman Center’s 30th Birthday

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-02-26T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/ruben-blades-salsa-king-santa-rosa-spice-up-lehman-center-s-30th-birthday.html
Back in the 1980s, when  Ruben Blades 
and his Seis de Solar band were setting the salsa world on fire,
the television program “Saturday Night Live” offered them a
guest spot, every musician’s dream.  But they were already booked at the Bronx’s  Lehman Center
for the Performing Arts , which had embraced Blades before he
achieved mainstream recognition. He turned down the TV offer.  “The Lehman Center is very, very important,” Blades, 62,
said by phone. “The stereotype that we have of the Bronx as not
connected to learning and enlightenment is false. The center has
been there for the people of the Bronx no matter what conditions
exist.”  The Harvard-trained lawyer who stepped down as minister of
tourism for his native  Panama  in 2009 cleared his schedule once
again for the center to appear at its 30th anniversary gala
concert called “Una Sola Salsa.” Blades will perform with
salsa legend  Gilberto Santa Rosa .  “Gilberto is a total professional, and you also get to
learn from him,” Blades said. “I enjoy collaboration, and
that’s why I’ve worked with many artists, such as Elvis Costello
or  Lou Reed .”  In the past three decades, the 2,300-seat venue located on
the  Lehman College  campus, has hosted Latin music stars and
other musicians while offering affordable ticket prices that
make performances accessible to the largely Latino community.
Lehman College, which is part of the state and federally
subsidized  City University of New York , gave Blades an honorary
degree in 2000.  Seductive Vocals  The Puerto Rico-born Santa Rosa, known for his seductive
vocals, will handle the “more romantic side of things” with
ballads selected from his 20-plus recordings in the past three
decades, Blades said. Santa Rosa’s 2006 CD, “Directo al
Corazon,” won a  Latin Grammy Award  that year for Best Salsa
Album and another for Best Tropical Latin Album.  Blades’s set will include some romantic ballads of his own
and one of his signature tunes, “Juan Pachanga,” about the
foibles of a hard-drinking, carefree man.  Since leaving government service in Panama, Blades has been
recording new music and plans to release more than a dozen CDs
in the future, including new versions of old songs.  “What continues to really amaze me is the amount of
respect and admiration I get,” Blades said. “My songs don’t
have an expiration date because they talk about everyday life.”  (“Una Sola Salsa” with Blades and  Santa Rosa  is tonight
at 8 p.m. at the Lehman Center for the Performing Arts, 250
Bedford Park Blvd. West in the Bronx. Ticket information:
+1-718-960-8833).  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 