-- 
Rupiah Advances After Fitch Raises Indonesia’s Rating Outlook

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-02-25T11:37:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/rupiah-advances-after-fitch-raises-indonesia-s-rating-outlook.html
  Indonesia ’s rupiah had its sixth
weekly gain after  Fitch Ratings  raised its outlook on Southeast  Asia ’s biggest economy to positive from stable. Bonds declined.  The company affirmed its BB+ grade on the nation’s local-
and foreign-currency debt yesterday, one step below investment
grade. The rupiah has advanced 1.6 percent this year, the best
performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies, as official
data show overseas funds increased  holdings  of Indonesian  government bonds  by 2.8 percent from the end of last year to
201.3 trillion rupiah ($22.8 billion) as of Feb. 24.  “The report will fan expectations of Indonesia achieving
investment-grade rating soon,” said Joanna Tan, a Singapore-
based economist at Forecast Singapore Pte. “That’s definitely
positive for the rupiah.”  The rupiah strengthened 0.3 percent this week to 8,838 per
dollar as of 4:22 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency appreciated 0.4 percent today.    Standard & Poor’s  lifted Indonesia’s sovereign credit
rating to BB from BB- in March, two levels below investment
grade, with a positive outlook.  Moody’s Investors Service raised Indonesia’s credit rating
to the highest level since the 1997 Asian financial crisis last
month. Moody’s Ba1 rating is also one step below investment
grade.  Inflation  The rupiah’s current level isn’t overvalued, central bank
Governor Darmin Nasution said in Jakarta today. Bank Indonesia
will allow the rupiah to appreciate to help keep “imported
inflation” in check, said its deputy governor, Hartadi Sarwono.  Policy makers may refrain from adding to this month’s
interest rate increase for now as previous efforts to curb
inflation are sufficient, Sarwono said in Jakarta yesterday.    Bank Indonesia  on Feb. 4 unexpectedly raised its  reference
rate  to 6.75 percent from a record-low 6.5 percent, after
consumer prices climbed to a 21-month high.  Ten-year government bonds fell this week. The yield on the
8.25 percent note due July 2021 climbed four basis points
through the five days to 8.77 percent. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  