-- 
Russian Central Bank Unexpectedly Raises Main Rates, Reserve Requirements

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-02-25T11:32:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/russia-unexpectedly-increases-refinancing-rate-by-a-quarter-point-to-8-.html
  Russia ’s central bank unexpectedly
lifted the refinancing rate from a record low, the first
increase since December 2008, and boosted reserve requirements
for a second month to curb inflation.  Bank Rossii  raised its main rates 0.25 percentage point,
boosting the refinancing rate to 8 percent, the overnight
deposit rate to 3 percent and the overnight auction-based repo
rate to 5.25 percent, it said today in a statement on its
website. Economists expected the refinancing and the repo rates
to be left unchanged and the deposit rate to rise, according to
the median estimate of 18 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Russians see inflation, the fastest among the so-called
BRIC countries, as the country’s biggest challenge facing the
country, according to a poll by the state-run VTsIOM research
center. Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s administration has sold
discounted grain from state stockpiles and ordered  oil companies 
to cut prices for gasoline and diesel to stem price increases.  “Now that inflation is starting to approach 10 percent,
that’s kind of a threshold level,” Sanna Kurronen, a Helsinki-
based economist at Danske Bank A/S who correctly predicted the
increases, said today by phone. “Now they really want to
respond more aggressively.”  Ruble Gains  The ruble strengthened after the decision, gaining 0.3
percent to 28.9198 per dollar by 2:26 p.m. in Moscow, bringing
its seventh weekly gain to 0.9 percent. A close at that level
would be its strongest since Nov. 25, 2009. The ruble-
denominated  Micex Index  of 30 stocks was 0.3 percent stronger,
at 1720.94.  Policy makers worldwide are grappling with rising food and
energy prices.  China  increased reserve requirements and boosted  interest rates  this month as inflation quickened to 4.9 percent,
above the government’s target.  Brazil  raised its main overnight
rate on Jan. 19 after three increases in 2010.  India , which had
inflation of 8.23 percent in January, boosted its benchmark rate
to a two-year high on Jan. 5.  Global prices for food surged to a record high last month,
a factor in sparking protests in North Africa that toppled the
governments of Tunisia and  Egypt .  Russian inflation was an annual 9.7 percent as of Feb. 21,
up from 9.6 percent in January, the central bank said today.
Policy makers also lifted mandatory  reserve requirements  for
liabilities to 4.5 percent from 3.5 percent for non-resident
companies and to 3.5 percent from 3 percent for all others.  ‘High Time’  Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin, a deputy to Putin,
yesterday said that it was “high time” for additional measures
to be taken to curb inflation.  “The decision is made due to high inflationary
expectations and taking into account the emerging conditions for
capital inflow into Russia on the back of high  oil prices ,” the
central bank said in the  statement . The increases take effect
Feb. 28.  Eighty percent of the country’s public believes inflation
is “very high,” compared with 65 percent in December,
according to a poll published yesterday by the state-run All-
Russian Center for the Study of Public Opinion, or VTsIOM.  Retail sales rose in January at the slowest pace in a year
as real disposable incomes shrank 5.5 percent for the first
decrease since August 2009. That may weigh on retailers
including X5 Retail Group, Russia’s largest grocer, and OAO
Magnit, its largest competitor.  The  unemployment rate  rose to 7.6 percent in January, the
highest level since April 2010, according to the statistics
service.  ‘Very Flexible’  Bank Rossii will also maintain a “very flexible”
exchange-rate policy, allowing the ruble to strengthen to help
slow inflation, Kudrin said on Feb. 21. Inflation will probably
be between 7 percent and 8 percent this year, down from 8.8
percent in 2010, Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said on Feb.
22 in Moscow.  The ruble has gained more than 7 percent in the past three
months versus the dollar, making it the best performer among
more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The central bank may face an “unpleasant” increase in
speculative inflows if it would start “aggressively hiking its
deposit rate,” Nikolay Podguzov, VTB Capital’s head of fixed-
income research in Moscow, said by phone on Feb. 21.  Russia-focused equity funds had inflows for a 13th
consecutive week, even as investors continued to flee developing
markets,  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib Financial
Corp. in Moscow, said today by e-mail, citing EPFR Global data.
Funds investing in Russian shares received $162 million in the
week ended Feb. 23, down from $169 million the week before.  “This is a very strong message” from the central bank,
Aurelija Augulyte, an emerging-market economist at  Nordea Bank
AB , said in an e-mail. Policy makers “will likely follow the
policy mix approach similar to China -- raising rates and
reserve requirements, or one at a time.”  The deposit rate may rise as much as 1 percent by year-end,
she wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in London at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  