-- 
Russia Stocks Rise 2nd Day as Libya, U.S. Lift Oil, Metals

-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 
2011-02-25T17:09:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/russia-stocks-rise-2nd-day-as-libya-u-s-lift-oil-metals.html
Russian stocks climbed for a second
day, pushing the benchmark gauge to its biggest weekly increase
in more than two months, as oil and copper rose on better-than-
expected U.S. consumer confidence and unrest in the Middle East,
bolstering the earnings outlook for producers.  OAO Novolipetsk Steel, billionaire  Vladimir Lisin ’s
steelmaker, rose 5.9 percent. OAO Novatek, the country’s largest
non-state gas producer, climbed 5.3 percent, while OAO Sberbank,
Russia’s biggest lender, added 3.2 percent. The 30-stock  Micex
Index  gained 1.9 percent to 1,747.72 by 6:45 p.m. in Moscow,
giving it a 3.4 percent advance for the past five days, the
biggest weekly jump since Dec. 5.  Urals oil, Russia’s export blend of crude, rallied as much
as 1.3 percent to $110.03 a barrel today after unrest in Libyan
production of oil fell because of violence in the coutry.
Confidence among U.S. consumers increased in February to the
highest level in three years, boosting optimism about the
recovery of the world’s biggest economy.  “Crude oil is still very much the market vector at present
and whatever global markets are doing,  Russia  is likely to
outperform in this environment,” Julian Rimmer, a trader of
Russian shares at CF Global Trading in  London , said by e-mail
today. The market reaction to the central bank’s decision to
raise  interest rates  today was “entirely neutral,” he said.  Bank Rossii unexpectedly raised its key refinancing rate
0.25 percentage point, the first increase since December 2008,
and boosted reserve requirements for a second month to curb
inflation.  Fund Flows  Funds focused on Russia, the world’s biggest energy
exporter, saw “relatively strong inflows” in week through Feb.
23,  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib Financial Corp. in
Moscow, wrote in an e-mail today. Russia holdings had $162
million of inflows compared with outflows for  China , Brazil and
Turkey, he wrote.  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the country’s largest miner, added
4.1 percent to 6,853.04 rubles. Copper prices advanced in
London.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Maria Levitov at   mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  