-- 
SABMiller May Face Coca-Cola Amatil Payout in Any Foster's Bid

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-02-25T04:12:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/sabmiller-may-face-coca-cola-amatil-payout-in-any-foster-s-bid.html
  SABMiller Plc , the world’s second-
largest brewer by volume, may need to include its Australian
partner  Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd . or negotiate a buyout of their
venture if it bids for  Foster’s Group Ltd .  The terms of their partnership require any SABMiller
alcohol expansion in Australia to be first offered to their
Pacific Beverages venture, which holds rights for brands
including Peroni, Miller and Grolsch, Coca-Cola Amatil Chief
Executive Officer Terry Davis said in a Feb. 23 interview.  “If the joint venture says no, then they have a bit of a
problem,” Davis said by telephone. “You can expect that I
would want fair value for those brands.”  Pacific Beverages was formed in 2006 with an aim to create
Australia’s third-largest beer business in a market where more
than 90 percent of sales are controlled by Foster’s and the Lion
Nathan unit of Kirin Holdings Co. SABMiller is working with
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to study a bid for Foster’s once  Australia ’s biggest brewer completes a spinoff of its wine unit,
a person with knowledge of the situation has said.  “There might be a breakup fee in the hundreds of
millions,” said  Theo Maas , who holds beverage stocks among the
$5 billion he helps manage at Arnhem Investment Management in
Sydney.  Victoria Bitter    Nigel Fairbrass , a spokesman for London-based SABMiller,
declined to comment on the venture with Sydney-based Coca-Cola
Amatil. Troy Hey, a spokesman for Melbourne-based Foster’s,
declined to comment on “market speculation” the company may be
a takeover target.  Speculation increased that SABMiller may purchase Foster’s,
maker of Australia’s top selling brew Victoria Bitter, after the
Melbourne-based company said on Feb. 15 that it plans to spin
off the world’s second-largest wine business by May to focus on
boosting beer earnings. Outgoing Chief Executive Officer  Ian Johnston  said on a conference call that day the Foster’s board
of directors would consider any bid if it came along.  “When I negotiated the contract I was mindful of this,”
said Davis, 53.  Pacific Beverages, which is 50 percent owned by each
company, posted its first annual profit this week, with Coca-
Cola Amatil earning A$1.5 million ($1.52 million) from it in the
12 months ended Dec. 31.  The venture last year started production at a new A$120
million brewery near Newcastle north of Sydney as it seeks to
win more sales of draft beer in pubs and clubs.  The venture, which also sells Jim Beam bourbon and Russian
Standard vodka, sells five beers in Australia’s top 20 premium
packaged labels with both Grolsch and Peroni Nastro Azzurro in
the top ten.  “The pubs realize they make more margin selling a premium
beer than they do selling a commercial beer,” Davis said. “The
independent customers in particular want to break the
stranglehold of the major brewers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  