-- 
Samsung Group, Quintiles Plan $266 Million Venture to Make Biologic Drugs

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-02-25T08:02:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/samsung-electronics-group-to-form-266-million-biopharmaceuticals-venture.html
  Samsung Group , the South Korean
company whose businesses range from electronics to ship-building,
will partner with Quintiles Transnational Corp. to make biologic
drugs as it seeks new businesses to drive growth.  The venture, with 300 billion won ($266 million) in capital,
will begin building a plant in the Songdo district of Incheon,
near Seoul, in the first half of the year, Samsung Group said
today. It will contract-make medicines made from living cells,
and Samsung Group plans to expand into producing copies of
biologics including Rituxan, the leukemia and lymphoma treatment
sold by  Roche Holding AG  and Biogen Idec Inc.  The investment will help Samsung Group,  South Korea ’s
largest industrial group, tap a market that boasts 5 of the
world’s 10 bestselling medicines. The Seoul-based group may
exceed its target to generate 1.8 trillion won a year by 2020
from biopharmaceuticals because of the demand for those
medicines, Executive Vice President Kim Tae Han said.  “Biopharmaceuticals are a globally hot market,” Shin Ji Won, an analyst at Mirae Asset Securities in  Seoul , said by
telephone. Samsung has “repeatedly expressed interest in the
area” and the business plan is now more visible, he said.  The venture plans to start supplying biologic products in
the first half of 2013. Most of the medicines, to fight diseases
such as cancer and arthritis, will be sold overseas, the group
said. Biologics include arthritis drugs Remicade, made by
Johnson & Johnson, Enbrel from Amgen Inc., and Humira from
Abbott Laboratories.  Production, Technologies  Samsung Electronics Co. and Samsung Everland Inc. will each
own a 40 percent stake in the venture, with  Samsung C&T Corp .
and Quintiles each holding 10 percent, the group said in a
statement. Samsung affiliates will focus on production, while
Quintiles will help develop technologies, South  Korea ’s Ministry
of  Knowledge Economy  said in a separate statement.  Samsung Electronics, the group’s flagship company, declined
0.3 percent to 926,000 won at the 3 p.m. close of trading in
Seoul, while Korea’s Kospi index gained 0.7 percent.  Samsung Group said in May it has set aside 23.3 trillion
won to spend on five new businesses by 2020, with 2.1 trillion
won for biopharmaceuticals. The group expects annual revenue
from the five businesses to reach 50 trillion won by 2020.  The venture represents “a significant step in Samsung’s
investment strategy in future growth engines,” the group said.  Anand Tharmaratnam, Quintiles’s head of clinical
development in the Asia-Pacific region, wasn’t immediately
available to comment on the venture.  Biosimilar Production  Samsung Group will also develop so-called biosimilars, or
copies of biopharmaceuticals, and begin producing them in 2016
starting with Rituxan, Kim said at a briefing today.  Rituxan has patent protection in the U.S. until 2018 and in
the rest of the world through 2013, Nina Schwab, a Roche
spokeswoman, said in May last year. It generated sales of $6.11
billion last year, making it the world’s ninth best-selling
medicine, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Global sales of biosimilars are forecast to expand more
than 40-fold to $90.5 billion a year between 2010 and 2020,
according to the ministry’s statement.  Samsung Group may also set up another joint venture to make
biosimilars this year, Kim said. The group ultimately aims to
develop its own biopharmaceuticals after gaining experience in
making them, he said.  It will spend about half of the 2.1 trillion won budget on
developing biosimilars and use the other half to build factories,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  