-- 
Sarkozy Seeks Middle Way on Turkey EU Bid; Gul Wants Pledge Kept

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-02-25T17:54:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/sarkozy-seeks-middle-way-on-turkey-eu-bid-gul-wants-pledge-kept.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
said he’s seeking how to increase Turkish integration into  Europe  without letting it join the European Union as his Turkish
counterpart, Abdullah Gul, insisted on his country’s right to
membership.  “We tried to understand one another’s red lines,” Sarkozy
said at a joint press conference in Ankara today. “We tried to
find future paths that would lead neither to Europe’s
destabilization nor to the humiliation of Turkish society, which
is on its way to modernization,” he said.  Sarkozy spent six hours visiting the Turkish capital,
holding separate talks with Gul and Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan . Opposition to Turkish membership from EU members also
including Austria and  Germany  and a standoff with Cyprus have
limited the country’s progress toward joining the bloc since it
started entry talks in 2005.  “We expect the word that was given to be respected,” Gul
said at the press conference, referring to the pledge to hold
entry talks. He called EU membership “the most sensitive
issue” in his country and blamed European governments for
“artificially” slowing talks.  Since his 2007 election, Sarkozy has said repeatedly that  Turkey  should drop its efforts to join the EU and accept the
status of a “privileged partner” instead. Today he said that
he had to take into account French public opinion.  “Between full membership and a simple association, which
the Turkish people have already said they refuse, there is a
balance that we can find, if we look at this issue in a serene
and forward-looking way,” Sarkozy said.  “We’ve told him this approach to Turkey is completely
mistaken,” Erdogan said in a televised interview in Ankara late
yesterday, according to state-run news agency Anatolia.  The situation in Europe is “complicated enough” without
the debate over Turkish membership, Sarkozy said in Ankara.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Ankara, Turkey, at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  