-- 
HSBC, Standard Chartered Likely to Report Margin Squeeze in Asia

-- B y   J o n   M e n o n
-- 
2011-02-25T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/hsbc-standard-chartered-likely-to-report-margin-squeeze-in-asia.html
  HSBC Holdings Plc  and  Standard
Chartered Plc , the two U.K. banks most reliant on  Asia  for
earnings, may next week say profitability in the region is being
squeezed by both international and domestic competitors.  U.S. banks including  Citigroup Inc . are expanding in Asia
again after retreating during the financial crisis, placing
pressure on HSBC and Standard Chartered as they compete for
revenue and employees. Chinese lenders such as Industrial &
Commercial Bank of  China  Ltd. are maintaining their grip in
their domestic market, leaving overseas lenders with a 2 percent
share, according to estimates by  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP .  “You’ve got margin pressure” on both deposits and loans
in Hong Kong and across Asia, said  Ian Gordon , an analyst at
Exane BNP Paribas SA in London with an “underperform” rating
on the stock. “Returning international competitors, as well as
mainland Chinese banks, are becoming more aggressive -- most
certainly in  Hong Kong . There are plenty of headwinds.”  HSBC will report full-year earnings at 8:15 a.m. in London
on Feb. 28 and Standard Chartered two days later. The banks,
both of which have operated in Asia for more than a century, are
focusing on emerging markets as their growth outpaces that in  Europe  and the U.S. HSBC made more than half of its first-half
profit from Asia and  Standard Chartered  about 75 percent.  Competition in Hong Kong and across Asia is “almost
entirely” responsible for a drop in the banks’ net interest
margin, the difference between what banks earn on loans and what
they pays on deposits and funds, Gordon said. HSBC, in
particular, is replacing more profitable loans in the U.S. with
less lucrative loans in Asia, he said.  Net Interest Margin  HSBC’s net interest margin will decline to 2.83 percent
from 2.94 percent, according to Deutsche Bank AG analysts Jason Napier and David Lock, while the measure will drop to 3.52
percent from 3.76 percent at Standard Chartered.  Both banks take in more in deposits from clients than they
lend. HSBC’s loan-to-deposit ratio was 78 percent at June 30,
while Standard Chartered’s was 76 percent.  The profitability of deposits is declining as banks try to
retain clients with higher  interest rates , while the two haven’t
benefited from an increase in the profitability of mortgage
lending in the same period, according to analysts including
Simon Willis at Daniel Stewart & Co. in  London .  “We would expect HSBC’s management to be making comments
that it’s very difficult to improve spreads in Asia because
there’s a thriving and aggressive competition in pretty much
every market,” said  Simon Maughan , co-head of European equities
at MF Global U.K. Ltd. in London. “Loan losses are low, Asian
markets are strong and property prices are rising. Typically in
that environment, banks get into extreme margin competition.”  Employee Costs  HSBC and Standard Chartered are also paying more to attract
employees to their investment banks as revenue from the region
jumps, said Maughan. Citigroup plans to increase its workforce
in China to 12,000 in three years, according to Asia-Pacific Co-
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Bird .  Standard Chartered in December said costs would rise faster
than revenue in 2010, after hiring about 7,000 staff. Ex-HSBC
CEO  Michael Geoghegan  said in November the bank was “seeing a
lot more competition coming into the region. That in itself will
change pricing. There will be a big challenge for skills.”  HSBC didn’t seek direct  government aid  to bolster capital
during the financial crisis, and raised $17.8 billion from
investors in a rights offering in 2009.  Stuart Gulliver , 51, the
former investment banking head, succeeded Geoghegan in January.  ‘Not Seeing Benefits’  “HSBC has come through the crisis very well but they are
not seeing the benefits of that as much as they should have,”
said Bruce Packard, an analyst at Seymour Pierce in London.
“They are still competing against all the same people that were
around three years ago,” including Citigroup, which received a
$45 billion U.S. government bailout, Packard said.  HSBC, which bought subprime lender  Household International 
in 2003, closed its U.S. consumer finance unit to new clients
two years ago after setting aside more than $58 billion to cover
bad loans. That decision has crimped revenue, which is expected
to rise 4.8 percent to $69.27 billion, the analysts said.  HSBC may say profit for 2010 more than doubled as
provisions for bad loans at its U.S. unit halved. Net income
probably rose to $13.91 billion from $5.83 billion in 2009,
according to the median estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Even so, provisions probably declined 47 percent to
$14.06 billion.  Standard Chartered will probably say 2010 profit rose 25
percent to $4.2 billion as provisions declined, according to the
median estimate of 17 analysts.  U.S. Loans  “Standard Chartered has been growing its loan book faster
than HSBC and that’s been consistent post the crisis and that
alleviates some of the pressure” on margins, said Willis.
“HSBC has been focused on addressing the issues in the U.S.”  HSBC reduced customer loans by 15 percent to $893 billion
in the two years to June 30 2010, according to company filings.
Standard Chartered increased loans by 23 percent to $215 billion
in the period, filings show.  HSBC’s stock is almost unchanged in London trading in the
past year, making it the worst-performer among the FTSE 350
banks. Standard Chartered has climbed 9.7 percent and trades at
about 13 times estimated earnings. HSBC is at 15 times.  The table below shows analysts median estimates for 2010 in
millions of dollars for HSBC and Standard Chartered. 