-- 
Brummer Closes Asian Equity Hedge Fund After 15% Decline

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-02-25T03:56:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/scandinavia-s-brummer-closes-its-asian-hedge-fund-on-poor-returns.html
Brummer & Partners, the largest
Scandinavian hedge fund, closed its Asia-focused equity fund and
the firm managing it after its performance damped returns,
according to the Stockholm-based company’s annual report.  The Karakoram fund, which bet on rising and falling stock
prices in  Asia  outside Japan, lost 15.4 percent last year, the
worst performer in a global portfolio of the firm’s hedge funds,
the annual report published on Feb. 15 shows. The fund, which
started trading in July 2009, had assets of $234 million as of
Dec. 31, according to the report seen by Bloomberg News.  “The year offered a demanding climate for the managers of
the single-strategy funds due to hard-to-assess macro factors
and relatively high levels of volatility in equity and fixed-
income markets,” Brummer & Partners said in the report.  The tough trading and asset-raising environment led to
about 100 Asian hedge fund closures in the 12 months through
January, according to Singapore-based Eurekahedge Pte.  Singapore-based Artradis Fund Management Pte, whose hedge
funds made $2.7 billion for investors as markets see-sawed in
2007 and 2008, is closing after it lost money from wagers on
price swings in the last two years. Shafiq Karmali, a former
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. trader, planned to shut Cypress Lane, a
little more than a year after starting the Hong Kong-based hedge
fund, three people briefed on the decision said in November.  Karakoram, managed by Ee Toh Chia in Singapore, contributed
to an underperformance of Brummer & Partners’ multistrategy
portfolio, according to the report. The portfolio gained 3.5
percent in 2010, below its targeted annual return of 8 percent
to 10 percent and average annual return of 8.9 percent since
inception, it said.  Low Probability  The  HFRI Fund of Funds Composite Index  returned 5.7 percent
last year and the  MSCI World  Index gained 10 percent.  Chia and Anders Stendebakken, managing director of Brummer
& Partners’ business in Asia, declined to comment.  Brummer & Partners intensified its analysis of Karakoram
portfolio managers’ “risk and result components” after the
summer, it said. The multistrategy fund’s board decided that the
“probability of positive returns was so low that it was in the
unit-holders’ interest to fully redeem the investment,” it said.  Karakoram had an allocation of 5.4 percent from the Brummer
& Partners Multi-Strategy Fund on Dec. 1. Assets in the
multistrategy fund increased to 29 billion kronor ($4.5 billion)
at the end 2010, from 19 billion kronor at the start of the year,
as it attracted net inflow of capital, according to the report.  Multistrategy Portfolio  The firm’s Arbor Market Neutral fund, in which the
multistrategy fund had an underweight position, lost 9.7 percent,
according to the report. Single-strategy funds Nektar and Lynx
made the biggest contribution to the global portfolio, Brummer &
Partners said. The multistrategy portfolio invests in hedge
funds managed by companies in which Brummer & Partners is a
shareholder.  “Overall 2010 thus proved a weak year, despite strong
performances from some of the group’s funds,” it said.  The group’s assets under management grew more than 40
percent to 78 billion kronor, as the number of clients increased
to 10,000 from 7,000, it said.  Brummer & Partners “seeks to identify new funds with the
potential to improve the efficiency of the management” of the
multistrategy portfolio, it said.  The fund invested as of Jan. 1 in an event-driven hedge
fund that seeks to profit from events such as mergers in the
Asia-Pacific region, according to the report.  The Stockholm firm teamed up with Scott Collison, a former
portfolio manager at Millennium Management LLC’s Asian business,
to start Orvent Asset Management Pte in  Singapore  to manage the
fund, Brummer & Partners said.  Orvent started with an initial allocation of 3 percent from
Brummer & Partners’ multistrategy fund, according to the report.  Brummer & Partners will team up with two new portfolio
managers set up another event-driven hedge fund based in  London ,
it said in the report. The fund, whose managers previously
worked at the proprietary trading desk of “a leading investment
bank,” is set to start trading in the second quarter, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  