-- 
Scene Last Night: Yale Club Hosts Prize Won by Ex-Merrill Man

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-02-26T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/scene-last-night-yale-club-hosts-history-prize-ex-merrill-lynch-man-wins.html
Yale alumni Lewis Lehrman, chairman
of Ten Squared Management LLC, and Richard Gilder, partner at
Gilder Gagnon Howe & Co., gathered with other history fans
Thursday night at the Yale Club of  New York City .  The occasion marked the awarding of the $25,000 Frederick Douglass Book Prize for nonfiction on slavery. It was named for
the self-educated abolitionist, whose great-great-great-
grandson, Kenneth Morris, was present.  Enjoying the filet mignon and white chocolate mousse were
Joseph McNay, chairman of Essex Investment Management Co.,
Walter Evans, a manuscript collector who owns several Douglass
family scrapbooks, historian Eric Foner and a lot of students
from the Frederick Douglass Academy.  Lehrman told two students about  Alexander Hamilton . “I
started out as a teacher,” he said to Bloomberg News.  “I read all the finalists,” Gilder said.  The two men are the founders and funders of the Gilder
Lehrman Institute of American History and the Gilder Lehrman
Center for the Study of Slavery, Resistance, and Abolition at  Yale University , which sponsor the prize.  “Not only is it a mouthful to spit out all those greats,
but it makes me feel far removed,” said Morris, president of
the Frederick Douglass Family foundation, in after-dinner
remarks. “It’s like trying to picture a billion dollars with
all those zeroes.”  Prizes went to “In the Shadow of Slavery:  Africa ’s
Botanical Legacy in the Atlantic World” by Judith A. Carney and
Richard Nicholas Rosomoff, and “Sex Trafficking: Inside the
Business of Modern Slavery” by Siddharth Kara, a former Merrill
Lynch investment banker.  Foner, a professor at  Columbia University , was recently
named the 2011 winner of the Gilder Lehrman Institute’s Lincoln
Prize for his book “The Fiery Trial:  Abraham Lincoln  and
American Slavery.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 