-- 
Scott of Florida Calls High-Speed Rail Project a Bad Deal (Transcript)

-- B y  
-- 
2011-02-25T18:30:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/scott-of-florida-calls-high-speed-rail-project-a-bad-deal-transcript-.html
  Florida  Governor  Rick Scott 
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that accepting
$2.4 billion from the Obama administration for a high-speed
rail project in his state would have been a bad deal for
taxpayers.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with Florida Governor Rick
Scott, who joins us in our studio.  Thank you for being here, Governor.  GOVERNOR RICK SCOTT: Thanks for the invitation.  HUNT: Governor, you want to cut down on the cost for
taxpayers on public employees, but you have said collective
bargaining is fine. After all, the cost to taxpayers -  SCOTT: Well, we have it. We have it in our
constitution. So I don’t -  HUNT: Right.  HUNT: And - and most studies show collective
bargaining doesn’t add much to budget costs. It is the - it
is the wages and the benefits.  SCOTT: The benefits in our state.  HUNT: Right. So my question is, are Governor Walker,
Governor Kasich making a mistake by focusing on collective
bargaining rather than on wages and benefits?  SCOTT: Well, I think they’re - I think they’re
absolutely doing the right thing. You know, what our issue
in Florida is, is that, you know, our - our state workers
don’t pay for anything into their  pension plan . And we
can’t afford that. It’s not fair to taxpayers.  HUNT: But should the issue be pensions and wages? Or
should it be collective bargaining?  SCOTT: I think - I think it depends on the state. As
you know, in our state, we have - we - in the constitution,
they have collective bargaining. So if you didn’t have
collective bargaining, would it be better for the state?
Absolutely.  HUNT: You’ve also proposed banning labor union
political contributions unless they get permission from
their members, right?  SCOTT: Absolutely.  HUNT: Would you also ban corporations from spending
political monies unless they get approval from
shareholders?  SCOTT: You know, I haven’t thought about it that way.  HUNT: Why isn’t that the same thing?  SCOTT: I think it’s - it’s a legitimate issue. I think
- I think the way - if you’re going to spend dollars for
somebody, yeah, I mean, I think you ought to get - you
know, people ought to know how you’re spending it. I think
it ought to be transparent.  HUNT: So in Florida, maybe change the rules so you
have - so corporations have to get approval from
shareholders?  SCOTT: What - what I’m more focused on is, let’s be
transparent. Let’s make sure everybody knows what they’re
doing. So that would be my biggest issue, is transparency,
the people know exactly how their money is being spent.  HUNT: But am I right, you’re saying you’d consider
doing it for corporations as well as for unions?  (CROSSTALK)  SCOTT:  - corporations.  HUNT: You’re not?  SCOTT: No.  HUNT: Why are they different than labor unions?  SCOTT: Well, I think, first off, it’s the - you’re -
you’re competing with the private sector. The - when you’re
dealing with state workers, it’s their money. It’s
basically your tax dollar money. So I think it’s totally
different.  HUNT: Let’s talk about the Florida economy and your
budget. You said during the campaign you weren’t going to
cut education spending, but your budget cuts education by
10 percent. You also cut corporate taxes.  SCOTT: Well, that’s not true. What I said in the
campaign was I wouldn’t cut any state funding of education.
What’s happened is -  HUNT: September 28th, North Broward economy (ph),
“We’re not going to cut the education budget. We’re going
to make sure that money is there for education”?  SCOTT: Absolutely right. I am not cutting any state
spending on education. But, look, here’s what the federal
government’s done. The federal government threw all this -
these dollars into these states and then expected the
states to continue to fund things. So it’s not - that’s not
doable. You can’t do it.  HUNT: But education spending -  SCOTT: We’re spending that -  HUNT:  - will be less because of what you just said.
And at the same time, you’re cutting corporate taxes, which
Moody’s says is going to provide additional challenges for
Florida’s fiscal situation.  SCOTT: No. No. We’re going to - we’re - look, we’re
walking into a $3.6 billion  budget deficit .  HUNT: Right.  SCOTT: Right? I’m going to reduce state spending by
that. I’m also going to reduce state spending to phase -
start phasing out the business tax. I’m going to reduce
property taxes. I’m going to make Florida the place where
if you want to open up a business, you say, “Why would I go
anyplace else?” We already have the best weather. We’re a
right-to-work state, the beaches, all that. But on top of
that, we’re not going to have - we’re going to reduce our
property taxes, and we’re going to get rid of the business
tax.  Now, we spend enough money on education. We’ve got to
figure out how to spend our money better, no different than
what the private sector has done.  SCOTT: In education, what we need to do is we need to,
step one, say, let’s pay the best teachers the best. So
let’s really have real measurement -  HUNT: But the issue is not spending more money on
education, but you’re saying - is this a national model?
Should Barack Obama be cutting back or paring back
educational expenses and cutting corporate taxes now?  SCOTT: Absolutely he should be cutting corporate
taxes.  HUNT: With a budget deficit of $1.6 trillion?  SCOTT: Step one, he needs to reduce - dramatically
reduce spending.  HUNT: You think there could be a federal corporate  tax
cut  right now?  SCOTT: Absolutely.  HUNT: You do?  SCOTT: But what I would do is, I would start by - I
would dramatically reduce spending in this country -  HUNT: And then cut taxes, cut individual taxes, too?  SCOTT: I would balance the budget. I would cut taxes.
And I would try to do it every year. We have to understand,
we’re competing with countries all over the world that have
lower tax rates than we do.  HUNT: Would you reduce Social Security benefits?  SCOTT: I would go through and I would - I would go
through, take every program we have, if they can -  HUNT: But would you reduce Social Security benefits?  SCOTT: The way I would do it is, I would go through
every program we have and say, “How can you do it better?”
And - but what we’ve got to do is we’ve got to understand
that we are competing all around the world. And if we - if
we have programs that we can’t afford and all we’re doing
is telling people, “Don’t have those jobs in America. Put
those jobs someplace else.”  HUNT: Let me ask you this about a Florida issue. You
rejected a high-speed rail project from Tampa to  Orlando .
Republicans, like Congressman John Mica and 26, I think,
members of your party and your state legislature say this
action is going to cost Florida jobs, it’s going to make a
congested area even more congested, this was shovel-ready,
and you are pandering to the Tea Party supporters.  SCOTT: Well, let’s think about it. So, again, I’ve got
- I’ve - I represent the taxpayers of this state.  HUNT: Right.  SCOTT: All right? If you look at history on high-speed
rail projects, there’s always cost overruns, right? The -
so that’s potential of $3 billion to the state. On top of
that, you know, all these lose money.  I don’t want our taxpayers to fund that. We already
have a project down in the Miami-Palm Beach area. We - $65
million a year to operate, the fares cover $10 million. On
top of that, if it’s shut down, because it’s not viable, we
have to pay - the state has to pay $2.4 billion back.  HUNT: But there were eight business consortiums that
said they were going to pick up the cost overruns. Now, you
know, one can argue about that, but you didn’t go through
the process of finding out whether that was a - a credible
commitment or not. Why did you skip that process?  SCOTT: I’m very comfortable in that, if you look at
the ridership studies, there is no way that anybody’s going
to take that risk.  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: So that process was unnecessary, basically?  SCOTT: There’s no one that’s going to take that risk.
And - and, you know, it was - it was never going to happen.
And, first off, you know, when consortiums say they’re
going to take the risk, what’s their balance sheet?  SCOTT: No one showed up and said - with a - with a
balance sheet that said, “Oh, I’ve got the money, and I’ll
take all that risk.”  HUNT: Let me ask you one sensitive question. You - you
would like to have Medicaid turned into block grants. And
your critics say, now, wait a minute, you want to go and
you want to reform Medicaid, Governor Scott, but you ran a
company that was guilty of the most serious Medicare fraud
I think ever, $1.7 billion fine for bilking the taxpayers,
not you personally, but the company that you ran. How do
you have credibility in reforming Medicaid?  SCOTT: Go back and look at what we accomplished. We -
I’m very proud of what we accomplished. When I started that
company in 1988, health care inflation was over 16 percent.
Ten years later, it was 0.8 percent, because I ran it like
you should run a business. I watched how you spend every
dollar. And we had great outcomes, and we had great patient
satisfaction, because I measured everything.  HUNT: But there was a $1.7 billion fine, wasn’t there?  SCOTT: Look, we - what I focused on was three things.
I focused on, you know, outcomes, patient satisfaction,
price. So, you know, if - could I have hired more auditors?
Sure. And I should have hired more auditors. When you’re in
business, you learn a lot of lessons, and that’s what I
should have done.  HUNT: If you redid Medicaid, would you hire more
auditors for the state of Florida?  SCOTT: Well, what - here - if you want to fix
Medicaid, what you’ve got to do is you’ve got to allow the
Medicaid recipient to have more say in what happens and get
the federal government out of the way.  HUNT: How would you grade  Barack Obama  these last
couple months, since the shellacking that he took in
November? How has he governed?  SCOTT: Well, you know, what’s changed? I mean, we
still have ridiculously high taxes. We’re walking into a
$1.6 trillion budget deficit. You know, there’s still - I
can tell you, in our state, you know, they want to tell us
how to do - basically how we run our state. They want to -
we have an issue over EPA nutrients. We have an issue over
Medicaid reform. We can’t afford Obamacare.  HUNT: So you don’t - you don’t think he’s changed? You
don’t think he’s moved to the center?  SCOTT: What’s changed?  HUNT: Okay. Governor Scott, thank you so much for
being with us.  SCOTT: All right.  HUNT: And when we come back, putting pressure on
Qaddafi, and the shutdown. We’ll talk to our reporters,
next.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY
CONTAIN MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS
TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED “AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND. BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO
THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL,
NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-
PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN THIS
TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN
CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION
EXPRESSED IN THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF
THE PURCHASE OR SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY
OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG LP.  #<610771.1204164.2.1.77.31389.25>#
-0- Feb/25/2011 18:30 GMT
 