-- 
Sensex Rises, Trims Weekly Decline as Government Flags Inflation Concern

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-02-25T11:47:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/sensex-rebounds-from-its-biggest-slump-in-15-months-as-oil-prices-retreat.html
India’s benchmark stock index rose,
paring a weekly loss. Most stocks fell as the government said
inflation is a “dominant concern.”    Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd ., the largest maker of sport-
utility vehicles and tractors, declined 3.4 percent. India needs
to narrow the fiscal deficit alongside interest-rate increases
to curb inflation that has been “uncomfortably high,” the
annual Economic Survey prepared by advisers to Finance Minister
Pranab Mukherjee said.  Reliance Infrastructure Ltd ., the builder
of a mass rapid transit system in Mumbai, slumped 4.3 percent.  Gains by Tata Motors Ltd. and ICICI Bank Ltd. helped the
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, to gain 68.50,
or 0.4 percent, to 17,700.91 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai.
Seventeen stocks fell and 13 climbed as the 30-company gauge
swung between gains and losses at least 15 times. The Sensex has
dropped 2.8 percent this week as  oil prices  surged after a
violent uprising in  Libya  cut crude exports.  “Oil is adding to the inflation concern,” said Vaibhav Sanghavi, a  fund manager  at Ambit Capital Ltd. in Mumbai. “Due
to the geopolitical risk some investors think it’s better to
take some risk off the table. The street is eagerly waiting for
the government to give a roadmap for reforms and the fiscal
situation in the budget.”  The  Reserve Bank  of India last month urged Mukherjee to cut
subsidies in the annual budget due on Feb. 28, to curb consumer
demand and help cool inflation. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
government is under pressure to contain price gains as inflation
erodes the spending power of the more than three-quarters of
Indians the World Bank estimates live on less than $2 a day.  Nifty, BSE  The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange rose
0.8 percent to 5,303.55, while the April futures gained to
5,341.15. The BSE 200 Index advanced 0.5 percent to 2,175.15.  Mahindra & Mahindra slid 3.4 percent to 595.2 rupees, while
its April futures settled at 601.55 rupees. Reliance
Infrastructure lost 4.3 percent to 637.55 rupees, while its
April futures settled at 646 rupees.  Thousands of workers from across  India  rallied by trade
unions marched toward the country’s parliament in central  New
Delhi  on Feb. 23 protesting rising food prices, low wages and
job insecurity.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation rate averaged
9.4 percent in the nine months through December, the most in the
past decade, the  finance ministry  said. Inflation slowed to 8.23
percent in January, and “this trend may continue in the next
two months,” it said. The economy may expand 8.6 percent in the
year ending March 31, the government forecast Feb. 7.  Government Measures  The Sensex has lost 14 percent this year, making it the
world’s third-worst performing benchmark index, on concern
government measures to quell inflation will hurt economic growth.
The gauge has slumped 16 percent from a Nov. 5 record.  Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on Jan. 25 raised  interest rates  for the seventh time in a year and forecast
inflation will slow to 7 percent by March 31. The bank is aiming
for inflation of 4 percent to 4.5 percent.  Companies on the measure are valued at an average 16.6
times estimated earnings, down from last year’s high of about
21.5 times in March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Last year, India’s gauge climbed 17 percent, adding to the 81
percent surge in 2009.  Indian analysts are most “bullish” on stocks in three
years, Morgan Stanley said, citing so-called consensus ratings
on equities covered by the company. The consensus has a “buy”
or equivalent recommendation on 71 percent of the companies
covered by Morgan Stanley, against 61 percent in July last year
and 51 percent in July 2009. That’s the most positive “sell-
side consensus” since February 2008.  ‘Sell-Side Consensus’  “The sell-side consensus conviction on stocks is very
strong,” Morgan Stanley analysts including Ridham Desai wrote
in a report dated yesterday. Still, “the conviction level of
the buy-side is at a two-year low.”  “Sentiment now is more clouded by global issues,” said
Alroy Lobo, global head of equities at Kotak Mahindra Asset
Management Co., who oversees about $3 billion in stocks. “We
are coming closer to levels where markets are looking reasonably
attractive from a valuation perspective.”    Reliance Communications Ltd ., the worst-performing stock in
the Sensex, tumbled to a record low amid a probe by
investigators into the 2008 auction of phone licenses. The
nation’s second-largest mobile-phone operator plunged 5.3
percent to 87.45 rupees. Gaurav Wahi, a spokesman for Reliance
Communications, didn’t answer two calls made to his mobile phone.  Reliance Communications has lost 40 percent of its market
value this year as the  Central Bureau of Investigation  extended
a probe in the allocation of airwaves and questioned chief
executives of telecom companies, including Reliance
Communications Chairman  Anil Ambani . The stock fell 14.3 percent
on Feb. 9, prompting Ambani to blame brokers for spreading
“baseless, sensational” charges.  Overseas investors sold a net 131 million rupees ($2.91
million) of Indian equities on Feb. 23, taking the total outflow
from equities this year to 66.2 billion rupees, according to
data on the  website  of the  Securities and Exchange Board of
India .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  