-- 
Sinopec to Buy Fuel, LNG Stake From ConocoPhillips, Origin

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-25T07:24:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/sinopec-to-buy-15-stake-in-origin-conocophillips-queensland-lng-venture.html
China Petrochemical Corp., the
nation’s second-largest oil company, agreed to acquire 15
percent of an Australian gas venture planned by ConocoPhillips
and  Origin Energy Ltd . as part of a fuel-purchase accord.  Sinopec Group, as China Petrochemical is known, will buy as
much as 4.3 million metric tons of liquefied natural gas a year
for two decades under the preliminary pact, the Beijing-based
company said in a statement today. The supply agreement would be
the largest for any of the Queensland ventures intending to
liquefy gas extracted from coal deposits, Grant King, managing
director of Sydney-based Origin Energy, told reporters.  “This should give an increasing amount of confidence that
this project will proceed,” King said. “The message to other
customers with whom we’re in discussions and with contractors is
that our project is building some very substantial momentum.”
Origin shares rose the most in two years.    ConocoPhillips  and Origin propose one of four coal-seam
gas-to-LNG ventures in Queensland state targeting Asian demand.
BG Group Plc has committed to a $15 billion LNG venture and
Santos has approved a $16 billion development, while Arrow
Energy, owned by Royal Dutch Shell Plc and PetroChina Co., plans
another development on the central Queensland coast.  The companies didn’t disclose the value of the deal in
their separate statements. The stake in Australia Pacific LNG
may be worth about A$1.13 billion ($1.14 billion), UBS AG
analyst  David Leitch  estimated by phone from Sydney.  ‘Market Price’  The price ConocoPhillips and Origin receive for their LNG
would be “at market,” King said. “It is important any price
recognizes the quality of APLNG resources, both quality and
quantity. We’re comfortable the price will do that.”  The agreement would cut the partners’ stakes to 42.5
percent each. Origin and ConocoPhillips will “intensify the
dialogue” with other potential customers and may sell more of
its interest in the venture, King said.  Origin Energy rose 5.8 percent to A$16.83 in Sydney, the
most since Feb. 5, 2009.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp .,
Sinopec Group’s Hong Kong-listed unit, was 3.3 percent higher at
HK$7.91 at 3:08 p.m.  “Sinopec Group has been active in overseas upstream assets
purchases as their assets at home are relatively small,” said
Anna Yu, an analyst at ICBC International Research Ltd., by
telephone from  Hong Kong . “This will not only secure fuel
supply, but also share the profit gain from the project.”  Increasing Gas Supplies  China is importing gas and increasing domestic output as it
aims to almost triple use of the cleaner-burning fuel to about
10 percent of energy consumption by 2020.  Australia was China’s biggest supplier of LNG last year,
accounting for 42 percent of the 9.4 million tons in imports,
according to customs data. China paid an average $191 for each
ton of Australian term-contract supplies in 2010, compared with
an average $323 for all imports, including both term and spot
cargoes, customs data show.    Australia  Pacific LNG won environmental approval from the
federal government Feb. 22 and is due to begin production in
2015, Origin said. The venture may cost $17 billion, and Origin
may need to sell as much as $4 billion in shares and reduce its
stake to 35 percent to fund it,  Xavier Grunauer , an analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in Sydney, said in a report today.  Origin and Conoco aim to make a final  investment decision 
to proceed with the project later this year, King said.  ConocoPhillips and Origin are among companies planning as
much as A$200 billion of Australian LNG ventures aimed at Asian
markets. LNG is natural gas chilled to liquid form, reducing it
to one-six-hundredth of its original volume for shipment by
tankers to destinations not connected by pipeline.  BG, the U.K.’s third-largest gas producer, agreed last year
to supply  China  National Offshore Oil Corp. with 3.6 million
tons of LNG a year over two decades.  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Wang Ying in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net 
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  