-- 
South Korea Prods North by Dropping Leaflets Telling of Mideast Protests

-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-02-25T07:26:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/south-korea-prods-north-by-dropping-leaflets-telling-of-mideast-protests.html
  South Korea ’s military has dropped
leaflets on North Korea that tell of pro-democracy revolts in
the Middle East with the intention of provoking a movement
against  Kim Jong Il ’s regime, a South Korean lawmaker said.  The leaflets detail popular uprisings that toppled  Egypt ’s
government and sparked a bloody crackdown in Libya, explaining
that “a dictatorial regime is destined to collapse,” Song Yong
Sun, a member of the National Assembly’s defense committee, said
in an e-mailed statement today. The leaflets travel in balloons
that distribute their cargo when they burst, according to her
office.  South Korea has sent over 3 million leaflets across the
border in renewed “psychological warfare” since North Korea
shelled one of its islands in November, killing four people, the
statement said.  North Korea ’s state-run Korean Central News
Agency hasn’t reported on demonstrations in the Middle East.  The Chinese government this week blocked phone messages and
websites to stamp out movements inspired by the Middle East
revolts. China shares a border with North Korea and is the major
economic benefactor and political ally.  A defense ministry official in Seoul declined to comment on
Song’s statement, asking not to be named because of military
policy.  “North Korean people’s protests may also be able to bring
a change to the regime,” Song, a member of the Future Hope
Party, said in the statement. “South Korea’s military and
government should also be ready for any revolt inside North
Korea.”  Rice, Medicines  The South Korean government hasn’t been able to confirm if
there has been any protest in North Korea, Unification Ministry
spokeswoman Lee Jong Joo told reporters on Feb. 23.  South Korea has also started sending rice, clothing,
medicines and radios in baskets tied to balloons this month for
the first time in 11 years, Song said.  South Korea remains technically at war with North Korea
since their 1950-53 conflict ended in a cease-fire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in  Seoul  at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  