-- 
Sugar Price Drop May Delay Payment to Growers, Indian Mill Says

-- B y   P r a d i p t a   M u k h e r j e e
-- 
2011-02-25T10:16:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/sugar-price-drop-may-delay-payment-to-growers-indian-mill-says.html
Sugar makers in  India , the world’s
biggest user, may face difficulty in paying cane suppliers after
local prices fell below the cost of production, according to  Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd ., the nation’s second-biggest miller.  “Arrears will mount as most mills are losing bank
financing,” Managing Director Vivek Saraogi said in an
interview at his office in Kolkata yesterday. “Prices should
trend upwards on an ex-mill basis because right now prices are
below cost for most mills.”  Sugar prices have fallen 6 percent in India on forecasts of
a gain in output for the second straight year and restrictions
on exports, while prices in  London  climbed the highest level in
22 years early this month on concern that global supplies will
lag behind demand after a storm in  Australia  and drought in  Russia  crimped harvests.  India’s sugar consumption may total 23 million metric tons
in the year ending Sept. 30, Saraogi said. That’s more than the
22.1 million tons forecast by the Indian Sugar Mills Association
this week. Output may total 24.5 million tons, he said.  The country will have a surplus of about 1 million tons for
exports and a delay in government approval for selling overseas
is hurting farmers, Saraogi said. India in December allowed
shipment of 500,000 tons and then kept the plan on hold amid
rising food prices. The government will look into allowing
exports, Food Minister K.V. Thomas said Feb. 23, without giving
a timeline.  An index measuring wholesale prices of farm products
including lentils, rice and vegetables rose 11.49 percent in the
week ended Feb. 12 from a year earlier, the commerce ministry
said yesterday. It gained 11.05 percent the previous week.  “Sugar is the only product with negative inflation over
the last year,” Saraogi said. “Still, the government wants to
dither on policy-making, which is hurting the farmers’ cause.”  Balrampur is selling at an average 28 rupees (62 cents) a
kilogram and pays growers 205 rupees per 100 kilograms, he said.  The company’s shares, which have shed 25 percent this year,
rose as much as 2.1 percent to 68 rupees before closing at 66.90
rupees in Mumbai. The company said Feb. 22 that its board
approved a plan to buy back shares at up to 85 rupees apiece.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net . 