-- 
U.S. Can `Ride Out' Libyan Oil Supply Disruption With Reserves, Obama Says

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-02-25T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/u-s-can-ride-out-libyan-oil-supply-disruption-with-reserves-obama-says.html
President  Barack Obama  sought to
assure markets and the public that the U.S. economy can
withstand any disruption in  Libya ’s oil production caused by the
revolt against Muammar Qaddafi’s regime.  Obama and members of his administration said the ability to
tap reserves held by major economies and the capacity of other
oil-producing countries to pump more crude will blunt the impact
from the loss of shipments from Libya, which accounts for about
1.8 percent of global supply.  “We’ll be able to ride out the Libya situation, and it
will stabilize,” Obama said yesterday as he joined the first
meeting of his advisory council on jobs and competitiveness at
the White House.  Crude oil retreated from the highest level in 29 months
after the statements by Obama and members of his administration
and assurances from  Saudi Arabia  and the  International Energy
Agency  that they can compensate for any loss of Libyan
production. Oil for April delivery declined 82 cents, or 0.8
percent, to settle yesterday at $97.28 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The contract touched $103.41, the highest
intraday price since Sept. 29, 2008. Futures are up 22 percent
from a year ago.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , who also attended the
advisory council meeting, said that the world’s major economies
could dip into strategic reserves “in the event that we were
faced with some particular risk of sustained supply
disruption.”  ‘Excess Capacity’  In addition, he said, “there’s a fair amount of excess
capacity in parts of OPEC” that will make it less likely that
the market will build up higher prices over time.  The comments by Obama and Geithner were part of a concerted
effort by the administration to assuage concerns that the unrest
across the Middle East and North Africa will cause the  U.S.
economy  to stumble as the recovery from the worst recession
since the Great Depression is taking hold.  Earlier in the day,  Austan Goolsbee , chairman of the White
House Council of Economic Advisers, said that the U.S. economy
can withstand oil price increases so far.  “Anything like we have seen so far neither we nor the
private sector has forecast that would derail our recovery,”
Goolsbee said yesterday at a breakfast with reporters organized
by the Christian Science Monitor.  Gasoline Prices  Goolsbee said that as the economy has grown more energy-
efficient, fuel price increases have had less impact on economic
growth than they did during the oil price shocks of the 1970s.
Still, gasoline prices have risen 20 percent from a year ago to
a nationwide average of $3.189 a gallon, according to Department
of Energy figures.  While the cost of gasoline has “some psychological
impact,” he said,  consumer confidence  recently has been
strengthening.  “We start from a more optimistic place for 2011 than we
have been in some time,” Goolsbee said.  Consumer confidence climbed last week to the highest level
since April 2008 as Americans grew less pessimistic about their
finances.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, formerly the ABC News
U.S. Weekly Consumer Comfort Index, was minus 39.2 in the period
to Feb. 20, compared with minus 43.4 the prior week, a report
yesterday showed. Forty-nine percent of those polled held
positive views on their financial situation, the most in a year.  Petroleum Reserve  The rise in  oil prices  brought a call yesterday for Obama
to consider tapping the U.S.  Strategic Petroleum Reserve , which
holds 726.5 million barrels of crude oil in four caverns created
in salt domes along the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coasts.  In a letter to Obama, Democratic U.S. Representatives
Edward Markey of  Massachusetts , Rosa DeLauro of  Connecticut  and  Peter Welch  of  Vermont  asked the president to use the reserve to
mitigate any rapid increase in prices that may hit during the
summer driving season.  “Releasing even a small fraction of that oil could have a
significant impact on speculation in the marketplace and on
prices,” the lawmakers wrote in the letter, which was released
by their offices. “It would also remind the world that the U.S.
is ready, willing and able to use the SPR aggressively and
effectively if needed.”  White House press secretary Jay Carney declined to directly
respond to the letter.  Options Open  While the U.S. has “the capacity to act in the event of a
major supply disruption,” Carney said, “I’m not going to
preview what might happen if a further disruption happens and
what our options are.”  In August 2008, as a candidate for president, Obama called
for the government to swap light crude in the reserve for
heavier oil at a time when crude oil was at more than $120 a
barrel and the average retail price of gasoline was about $3.90
a gallon. He previously opposed tapping the reserve as a brake
on prices. When oil peaked at $147.26 a barrel in July of that
year, President  George W. Bush  resisted calls to release some
reserves to drive down prices.  The reserve was established in a 1975 law as a buffer on
supply disruptions. Oil was released for emergencies during the
first Persian  Gulf War  in 1991 and following  Hurricane Katrina 
in 2005.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  