-- 
U.S. Stocks Advance as Consumer Confidence Exceeds Forecasts

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-02-25T21:43:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/u-s-stock-futures-rise-boeing-climbs-on-air-force-refueling-contract-win.html
U.S. stocks rose, preventing the
biggest weekly drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since
August, as confidence among American consumers beat forecasts
and climbed to the highest level in three years.    Boeing Co . had the biggest rally in more than a month,
rising 2.2 percent, after defeating European Aeronautic, Defence
& Space Co. for a $35 billion Air Force tanker program.  Intel
Corp . gained the most in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average ,
adding 2.7 percent, as Longbow Research advised buying the
shares.  Salesforce.com Inc ., the largest supplier of customer-
management software, jumped 3.4 percent after forecasting
revenues that exceeded analysts’ projections.  The S&P 500 rose 1.1 percent to 1,319.88 at 4 p.m. in New
York. The benchmark gauge fell 1.7 percent this week, the most
since November. The Dow advanced 61.95 points, or 0.5 percent,
to 12,130.45 today. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, which measures the cost of using options as
insurance against declines in the  S&P 500 , tumbled 9.9 percent,
the most since November, to 19.22.  “We’re in a sustainable recovery,” said Thomas Nyheim, a
Greenville, Delaware-based money manager for Christiana Trust,
which oversees $7 billion.   Consumer confidence  beat estimates.
Corporate earnings have been pretty good. We’re not looking for
any pullback in economic growth. That should hold stocks up.”  Middle East Turmoil  The S&P 500 had fallen the previous three days amid growing
turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa. The index has risen
5 percent in 2011, extending last year’s 13 percent rally, as
government stimulus measures and improving profits bolstered
investor confidence. Per-share profit at 71 percent of the 456
companies in the S&P 500 that have reported results since Jan.
10 beat analyst estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Stocks extended gains today after the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer sentiment
for February climbed to 77.5 from 74.2 the prior month.
Economists projected an increase to 75.5, according to the
median of 59 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Earlier today, the Commerce Department said that the  U.S.
economy  grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter,
slower than previously calculated and less than forecast as
state and local governments made deeper cuts in spending. The
revised increase in gross domestic product compares with a 3.2
percent estimate issued last month and a 2.6 percent gain in the
third quarter.  Leaner Stockpiles  The economy, excluding inventories, grew at a 6.7 percent
pace, the most since 1998. Slower inventory accumulation shaved
3.7 points from growth, the most since 1988. Inventories last
quarter were stocked at a $7.1 billion pace, compared with an
originally reported $7.2 billion rate and down from a $121.4
billion rate in the third quarter. Leaner stockpiles may help
set the stage for faster growth in the first half of this year.  “If you dive into the GDP report, you’ll see that the
seeds for sustainable growth are there,” said  Mark Bronzo , who
helps manage over $25 billion at Irvington, New York-based
Security Global Investors. “Inventories went down even further.
That creates the chance that they will have to be rebuilt, so
that growth will be even stronger. On top of that, a lot of
names are rebounding after getting hit pretty hard this week on
the Middle East situation.”  Crude oil futures in New York surged to a 29-month high
yesterday amid estimates that  Libya ’s output was cut by as much
as two-thirds. Oil retreated below $100 a barrel in  New York 
after  Saudi Arabia , the U.S. and the  International Energy Agency 
said they can compensate for any Libyan supply disruption.  ‘Relief Rally’  “We’re getting a relief rally,” said Paul Zemsky, the New
York-based head of  asset allocation  for ING Investment
Management, which oversees $550 billion. “There’s pressure
coming off the Middle East. On the GDP report, the headline
number was disappointing. However, companies can improve their
numbers at that pace of growth. In addition, the moderate
economic acceleration tells me that the Fed will be on hold.”  The benchmark gauge for U.S. stocks has rallied 26 percent
since Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  suggested on Aug.
27 that he was prepared to act to spur economic growth.  Boeing rose 2.2 percent to $72.30. The sole supplier of
aerial refueling tankers to the U.S. Air Force since 1948 won a
$35 billion program to build 179 new tankers, the Pentagon said
yesterday. It was the Chicago-based company’s third try at the
contract since Congress and the  Air Force  first proposed the
tanker replacement program in late 2001.  Corporate Demand  Intel added 2.7 percent to $21.86. The world’s largest
chipmaker was rated “buy” in new coverage by Longbow
Research’s analyst Joanne Feeney, who said corporate demand and
new products will help propel Intel’s sales and earnings growth
into next year.  Salesforce.com rallied 3.4 percent to $138.83. Revenue will
be $480 million to $482 million in the fiscal first quarter,
which ends in April, San Francisco-based Salesforce said.
Excluding some costs, profit will be 26 cents or 27 cents a
share. Analysts had projected sales of $471.5 million and profit
of 32 cents, the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.    American International Group Inc . slumped 4.7 percent to
$38.54, the lowest price since Dec. 8. The bailed-out insurer
said it faces increased risk of losses on its $46.6 billion
municipal bond portfolio and that defaults could pressure the
company’s liquidity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  