-- 
U.S. Imposing Sanctions on Libya, Shutting Down Embassy

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-02-26T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/u-s-imposing-sanctions-on-libya-shutting-down-embassy.html
President  Barack Obama  took the
first step in what his administration said will be a series of
sanctions against the Libyan government, signing an order
freezing any U.S. assets of  Muammar Qaddafi , his family and
members of his regime.  Following the departure of diplomatic personnel and other
Americans from Libya yesterday, the Obama administration also
temporarily shuttered the U.S. embassy in Tripoli and said no
options, including military action, have been ruled out.  Qaddafi and his associates “have taken extreme measures
against the people of Libya, including by using weapons of war,
mercenaries, and wanton violence against unarmed civilians,”
reads the order, signed by Obama last night.  In a separate statement, Obama criticized the Libyan
government for its “continued violation of human rights,
brutalization of its people, and outrageous threats” and said
the regime must be held accountable.  “We will stand steadfastly with the Libyan people in their
demand for universal rights, and a government that is responsive
to their aspirations,” he said.  Violence between supporters of Qaddafi and opposition
groups has raged for more than 10 days, and there were reports
from  Libya  that worshipers were being shot as they left mosques
after Friday prayers. Qaddafi continued to cling to power as his
opponents consolidated control of the eastern part of the
country and violence worsened in the capital.    United Nations   The U.S. will work with the United Nations on additional
sanctions against Qaddafi, White House press secretary Jay Carney said. The asset freeze is “a first step,” he said. “We
continue to review our options going forward.”  Qaddafi and four of his children are named in the executive
order and the U.S. departments of Treasury and State will
identify other officials and family members who may be subject
to the order,  Stuart Levey , the Treasury Department’s under
secretary for terrorism and financial intelligence, told
reporters last night.  “We do have reason to believe that there are substantial
funds of money that will be blocked by this action and therefore
preserved for the Libyan people and protected from being looted
by the regime,” he said. “Those assets will stay in place
until we release them.”  Monitoring Libya  Carney said the U.S. will use the “full extent” of its
intelligence capabilities to monitor the regime’s actions. Asked
whether the U.S. military may get involved, Carney said that no
options have been taken “off the table.”  Pressure was building for firmer action against Libyan
authorities. A group of 41 former U.S. administration officials
and human-rights activists urged Obama and NATO to deploy
military forces to create a no-fly zone over Libya to prevent
Qaddafi from using aircraft to attack civilians, as did Senators  John McCain , an Arizona Republican, and  Joseph Lieberman , a
Connecticut independent.  Analysts said the chaos in Libya limits the steps the U.S.
can take now.  “The only thing that can have immediate impact are
statements which can give people a sense of their options going
forward,” said Jon Alterman, Middle East analyst at the Center
for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “The
information picture is so cloudy that it’s hard to do a lot of
effective things through diplomatic channels.”  ‘A Certain Caution’  Marina Ottaway, director of the Middle East program at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, said
the administration was initially hamstrung by Americans trapped
in the country, most of whom were evacuated yesterday by ferry
to Malta and by chartered aircraft to  Turkey .  “There is a certain caution on the part of the U.S.,” she
said. “That said, I am not sure we are going to see a dramatic
change afterwards because the choices for intervention are very
limited.”  The turmoil in Libya and concern that it may spread helped
push crude oil to its biggest weekly gain in two years. Crude
for April delivery climbed 60 cents, or 0.6 percent, to settle
at $97.88 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday.
Futures are up 25 percent from a year ago.  Obama plans to meet with UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon
on Feb. 28 to discuss coordinated action, Carney said. Obama
consulted with President  Nicolas Sarkozy  of  France , U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  and Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  on Feb. 24 and spoke yesterday with Turkish Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan .  Additional Sanctions  France and the U.K. submitted a plan for an arms embargo
and other sanctions against Libya at a meeting of the UN
Security Council yesterday. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will travel to Geneva to meet on Feb. 28 with her
counterparts to discuss suspending Libya from the UN Human
Rights Council. During its meeting yesterday, the council
approved a recommendation to move ahead with the suspension.  While saying Libya’s future must be decided by its citizens,
Carney said Qaddafi’s “legitimacy has been reduced to zero in
the eyes of his people.”  Carney said the administration waited until U.S. nationals
had been safely evacuated to announce the steps it is taking.  “This has been a very rapid effort to work with our
international partners to analyze and select the options we want
to take,” he said. “There has been great haste” to move ahead
on sanctions.  At the State Department, spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said
the embassy shut down, because the safety of personnel could no
longer be guaranteed, would be temporary. The U.S. maintains
diplomatic relations with Libya, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in  Washington  at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  