-- 
U.S. Consumer Confidence Climbs More Than Estimated to a Three-Year High

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-02-25T16:13:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/u-s-consumer-confidence-rises-more-than-estimated-as-index-registers-77-5.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
increased in February to the highest level in three years as a
drop in unemployment helped overcome concern over rising food
and fuel costs.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
sentiment climbed to 77.5, exceeding the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, from 74.2 in January, a
report today showed. The Commerce Department said the economy
grew less than previously estimated in the fourth quarter as
state and local governments cut back on spending.  The sentiment survey showed that for the first time in six
years, households this month said they had heard more optimistic
than pessimistic news on the economy, boosting the odds that  consumer spending  will keep bolstering the expansion. At the
same time, a jump in fuel costs caused by the unrest in the
Middle East threatens to keep the enthusiasm in check.  “We’ve clearly seen a bounce in the confidence numbers
coincide with the gains in financial markets and the pickup in
the economy, particularly the improving labor market,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , global chief economist at MF Global Inc. in  New
York . “It was a bit of a surprise given the geopolitical
tensions.”  Stocks extended earlier gains after the report. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.9 percent to 1,317.51 at
11:12 a.m. in New York.  Treasury securities  were little changed,
leaving the yield on the benchmark 10-year note at 3.43 percent
compared with 3.45 percent late yesterday.  Range of Estimates  The 59 estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 74.8
to 78. The index averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the
recession that began in December 2007 and ended in June 2009.
This month’s reading was the highest since January 2008.  Today’s report mirrors other consumer gauges.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, formerly the ABC News
U.S. Weekly Consumer Comfort Index, climbed last week to the
highest level since April 2008 as Americans grew less
pessimistic about their finances.  The gauge was minus 39.2 in the period to Feb. 20, compared
with minus 43.4 the prior week, a report yesterday showed.
Forty-nine percent of those polled held positive views on their
financial situation, the most in a year.  The comfort index often tracks changes in prices Americans
pay at the gas pump, whereas changes in the stock prices have
more of an influence on the Michigan index, according to
economists. Households with yearly incomes of $75,000 or more
accounted for the entire jump in confidence last month, today’s
report showed.  Other Gauges  The Conference Board’s index of confidence increased to
70.4, the highest since February 2008, from 64.8 the prior
month, according to Feb. 22 figures from the New York-based
private research group.  A report from the Commerce Department today showed the
economy grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter,
down from a prior estimate of 3.2 percent. The world’s largest
economy expanded at a 2.6 percent pace in the third quarter.  The sentiment survey’s current conditions gauge, which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether they consider it a good time to buy big-ticket items
like cars, increased to 86.9 from 81.8 the prior month.  Recent equity market performance may have played a part in
boosting peoples’ attitudes. The  S&P 500 Index  advanced 3.9
percent this year through yesterday, extending gains from 2010.  Unemployment Drops  While employers added a fewer-than-forecast 36,000 jobs to
payrolls in January, the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to
9 percent, the lowest since April 2009, according to Labor
Department figures released Feb. 4. Unemployment dropped to 9.4
percent in December from 9.8 percent the previous month.  The index of consumer expectations six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of consumer spending,
increased to 71.6 from 69.3.    Macy’s Inc ., the second-biggest U.S. department-store
chain, is among companies counting on shoppers to keep spending.
The Cincinnati-based retailer this week reported earnings that
beat analysts’ estimates as it controlled costs and sold
exclusive holiday gifts.  “We are entering the year with building momentum, which
gives us confidence that we should have another strong year,”
Karen Hoguet, chief financial officer, said on a conference call
with investors on Feb. 22.  Consumers in the confidence survey said they expect an
inflation rate of 3.4 percent over the next 12 months, the same
as in January. Over the next five years, the period tracked by
Federal Reserve policy makers, Americans surveyed said they
expect prices will climb 2.9 percent, also the same as last
month.  Rising gasoline prices may have restrained a further
increase in sentiment. The average price of a gallon of regular
gasoline at the pump was $3.29 yesterday, the highest level
since October 2008, as mounting tension in the Middle East and
North Africa drove up the cost of crude oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  