-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Copper Advances for a Second Day

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-02-25T12:14:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-copper-advances-for-a-second-day.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Cameroon May Increase Cotton Output 35%, State-Grower Says (1)  Cameroon may increase cotton output by as much as 35
percent this season by using higher yielding strains and
improving agricultural techniques, according to Sodecoton, the
state-owned producer.    Hedge Funds  Slashing Food-Price Bets After ‘Harrowing’ Fall (1)  Hedge funds are leading an exodus from agricultural
markets, slashing bullish bets in the U.S. from almost the
highest levels on record after grain prices slumped, money
managers said.  Sugar Price Drop May Delay Payment to Growers, Indian Mill Says  Sugar makers in India, the world’s biggest user, may face
difficulty in paying cane suppliers after local prices fell
below the cost of production, according to Balrampur Chini Mills
Ltd., the nation’s second-biggest miller.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Rises for Second Day Before U.S. GDP, Confidence Reports  Copper rose for a second day in London before reports
forecast to show improved economic growth and consumer
confidence in the U.S., the world’s second-largest buyer of the
metal.  Anglo Says Too Soon to Evaluate Pebble Mine; Partner Premature  Anglo American Plc, with $70 billion in expansion plans,
said it’s too soon to evaluate the Pebble copper mine before a
“prefeasibility study,” and comments by its partner this week
on the mine’s economics were premature.  Copper Stockpiles Drop in Shanghai for First Time in 4 Weeks (1)  Copper stockpiles monitored by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange dropped for the first time in four weeks, according to
weekly exchange data.  Lead-Battery Demand for Cars to Rise 2.6% on China,  India  (1)  Global demand for lead-acid batteries may rise 2.6 percent
this year amid increased car sales in China, India and  Southeast
Asia , said an executive at GS Yuasa Corp., the world’s third-
biggest producer.  MINING:  Anglo American Board to Be Without an Oppenheimer for First Time  Anglo American Plc, which owns a stake in the world’s
biggest diamond producer, said Nicky Oppenheimer, the grandson
of the company’s founder, will leave the company, making it the
first time a member of the family hasn’t sat on the board since
it was created in 1917.  Polyus Gold to Spend $1.1 Billion on Natalka Field, Region Says  Matrosov Mine, a unit of OAO Polyus Gold,  Russia ’s largest
gold producer, plans to spend 31.5 billion rubles ($1.1 billion)
over three years developing the country’s Natalka field,
according to the government of the Magadan region, where the
deposit is located.  Fortescue Metals Discovers 1 Billion-Ton  Iron Ore  Deposit (1)  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd., Australia’s third-largest iron
ore exporter, said it discovered a 1 billion-metric-ton deposit
of the material near its existing mine in Western  Australia  and
will seek to develop it rapidly.  Anglesey Mining Reaches Iron-Ore Haulage Accord With Tshiuetin  Anglesey Mining Plc said its 41 percent-owned associate
Labrador Iron Mines Holdings Ltd. reached an agreement with
Tshiuetin Rail Transportation Inc. for the haulage of iron ore
from LIM’s project in Schefferville.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold May Rise, Extending 4th Weekly Advance on Unrest in  Libya   Gold may rise in  London , extending the fourth consecutive
weekly advance, as unrest in Libya spurs demand for the metal as
an alternative investment.  Gold May Rise on Libya, Inflation Concern, According to Survey  Gold, trading near a record high, may climb as violence in
Libya and concern that inflation will accelerate boost demand
for an alternative asset, a survey found.  ‘Imperialist’ Dollar Cedes to Gold, Euro Havens: Chart of Day  Gold and the euro will benefit the most from Middle East
turmoil as some governments in the region shun dollars,
traditionally a safe haven, because of their views on
“imperialist” U.S. foreign policy, according to Fairfax IS.  AGRICULTURE:  Rice Gains as Governments Seek to Avoid Food-Price Inflation  Rice, the staple food for half the world, rallied from a
four-day losing streak as governments boosted stockpiles to curb
prices that sparked protests across North Africa and the Middle
East.  Wheat Gains in  Chicago  as Dry Weather May Limit U.S. Production  Wheat rose in Chicago after the U.S. said yesterday
production in the country, the world’s biggest exporter of the
grain, may suffer from dryness.  Coffee May Rise in London as  Vietnam  Curbs Exports of the Beans  Coffee may rise in London on speculation of reduced
supplies from Vietnam, the largest producer of robusta beans.  Rural Land Conversion in  China  Hurts Agriculture, Group Says  China’s crop production may decline and social stability is
at risk as local authorities take more rural land from farmers
for non-agricultural use, a Seattle-based land rights research
group said.  Rwandan Tea Production May Increase 18% on New Plantations (1)  Rwandan production of tea, the African nation’s second-
largest export crop, may jump 18 percent to 26,000 metric tons
this season as new plantations produce more of the leaf,
according to Anthony Butera, director general of the Rwandan Tea
Authority.    Bangladesh  to Boost Food Security, Imports, Minister Says (2)  Bangladesh, South Asia’s biggest rice buyer, is in talks
with India to buy grains on a regular basis to bolster food
security as governments seek to avoid a repeat of the unrest
that broke out when prices last soared.  ECONOMIES:  China’s February Inflation May Slow to 4.8%, CICC, Shenyin Say  China’s inflation rate may have cooled to 4.8 percent in
February from 4.9 percent in January, China International
Capital Corp. and Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. said in
separate notes today.  China’s Slowing Money Growth Signals Stocks Rally: Chart of Day  China’s stocks may extend this year’s gains as money supply
growth approaches a level that will force the government to ease
its “tightening campaign,” according to China International
Capital Corp.  U.K. Economy Shrank More Than Estimated in Fourth Quarter (3)  Britain’s economy shrank more than initially estimated in
the fourth quarter, complicating the task of the  Bank of England 
as a split deepens among policy makers on whether to withdraw
stimulus.  India Says Economy May Grow Up to 9.25% Amid Inflation Risk (2)    India’s economy  may grow as much as 9.25 percent in the
next financial year and officials need to tighten monetary and
fiscal policies to slow inflation, the  finance ministry  said
before next week’s budget statement.  Sentance Says BOE Must Tighten Now to Prevent Bigger Moves (1)  Bank of England policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said officials
must start raising  interest rates  from a record low
“gradually” to prevent being forced to tighten policy too
aggressively later.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks Rise on U.S. Recovery Outlook; Pound, Irish Bonds Fall  Stocks rose, snapping a four-day decline, on speculation
the U.S. recovery is gaining momentum. The pound weakened after
Britain’s economy shrank more than expected, while wheat and
rice rebounded and Irish bonds fell.  Oil Heads for Biggest Weekly Gain Since 2009 on Libya, Economy  Oil headed for its biggest weekly gain in two years on
concern the turmoil which has cut Libya’s output may spread to
other parts of the Middle East and speculation the U.S. economic
recovery will boost fuel demand.  Yen, Franc Decline as Stocks Advanced, Oil Price Concern Eases  The yen and franc declined before a report that is forecast
to show U.S. economic growth quickened and as stocks rose,
denting demand for the perceived safety of the Japanese and
Swiss currencies.  Ruble Heads for Highest in 15 Months on Unexpected Rate Increase  The ruble headed for its strongest level in 15 months,
after the central bank unexpectedly lifted the refinancing rate
from a record low to curb inflation.  Brent Oil Premium Highest Since 2008 on Libya: Energy Markets  The premium traders pay for the earliest deliveries of  Brent crude  is at its highest in almost three years as
unprecedented disruptions to shipments from Libya spur a
scramble for supplies.  Treasuries Fall on Speculation Economic Growth, Confidence Rose  Treasury 10-year notes fell before the publication of
reports forecast to show economic growth quickened and  consumer
confidence  improved.  SPORTS:  Manchester United Board Had No Talks, Says Club ‘Not For Sale’  Manchester United’s board said the club is “not for sale”
and that “no discussions have taken place,” according to a
statement today.  Fabregas to Beg Wenger for Cup Final Chance, Sun Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Crusaders Switch Super Rugby Games as Quake Closes Home Stadium  The Canterbury Crusaders will play their first two Super
Rugby home games in Nelson after Christchurch’s AMI Stadium was
closed following  New Zealand ’s deadliest earthquake in eight
decades.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  