-- 
Corporate Bond Sales Fall to 2011 Low Amid Middle East Tensions

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 
2011-02-25T23:22:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/u-s-corporate-bond-issuance-drops-to-2011-low-amid-middle-east-tensions.html
U.S. company bond sales tumbled 69
percent this week to the lowest in 2011 as growing tensions in
the Middle East shook markets.    McKesson Corp ., the biggest U.S. drug distributor, and  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP  led companies selling $6.79
billion of debt, the least since the week ended Dec. 31,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with
$21.8 billion of issuance in the five days ended Feb. 18.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.7 percent this week,
including the biggest two-day decline since August, as violence
escalated in  Libya , the latest country convulsed by protests
ignited by the ouster of Tunisia’s president last month and
energized by the departure of  Egypt ’s President  Hosni Mubarak  on
Feb. 11. Issuance also declined in part because of the
President’s Day holiday on Feb. 21, when U.S. markets were
closed, said Rajeev Sharma, a money manager at First Investors
Management Co.  “Everybody’s watching the news, and everything that’s
happening in the Middle East does cause a little bit of
uncertainty,” said Sharma, who oversees $1.5 billion of
investment-grade credit in  New York . Sales will likely pick up
next week, he said.  The extra yield investors demand to own corporate debt
instead of Treasuries rose this week for the first time since
the five days ended Dec. 3, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. Spreads widened 6 basis points to 224 basis
points, the data show, after narrowing by one basis point today.  ‘Market Tone’  “We do have a few issuers who are sitting on the fence and
it has definitely to do with the market uncertainty,” said
Timothy Cox, an executive director of debt capital markets at
Mizuho Securities USA in New York. “They’d prefer to issue when
the market tone is better rather than try to force a deal in.”  Crude  oil prices  breached $100 a barrel in New York for the
first time since October 2008 and had their biggest weekly gain
in two years as Libya’s uprising threatened to disrupt crude
exports. The price retreated below $100 a barrel after  Saudi
Arabia , the U.S. and the  International Energy Agency  said they
can compensate for any Libyan supply disruption and as the  U.S.
economy  grew less than forecast in the fourth quarter.  Even as spreads widened on corporate bonds, absolute yields
on investment-grade debt continued to decline. The yields fell
10 basis points from a week earlier and 2 basis points today to
4.04 percent, the lowest this month, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show. Speculative-grade debt yields rose 3
basis points for the week to 7.31 percent after touching a
record low of 7.285 percent on Feb. 22. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  ‘Speed Bump’  “Fundamentally, it seems that both investment-grade and
high-yield are here for a while,” said Ron Quigley, managing
director and head of syndicate global capital markets at Aladdin
Capital LLC. “The events in  Africa  are a considerable speed
bump, and they’ve handled it well.”  No companies sold debt in the week ended Dec. 31, Bloomberg
data show.  McKesson issued $1.7 billion of 5-, 10- and 30-year notes,
Bloomberg data show. Proceeds will be used to help pay back a $1
billion short-term loan, the San Francisco-based company said in
a Feb. 23 regulatory filing.  McKesson used a bridge loan to help redeem debt issued by
US Oncology, according to the filing, which it agreed to buy in
November to expand in cancer care and medicines. The
transaction, valued at $2.2 billion, included $415 million of
cash and about $1.79 billion of debt, the company said in a Dec.
30 statement.  McKesson Sale  McKesson’s 3.25 percent, 5-year notes yielded 115 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, the 4.75 percent,
10-year debt paid a 130 basis-point spread, and the 6 percent,
30-year bonds offered a spread of 150 basis points, Bloomberg
data show.  When McKesson last issued debt in February 2009, about five
months after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., its
$700 million offering included a $350 million portion of 6.5
percent five-year debt that paid a 450 basis-point spread, the
data show.  “Overall, you first have to address the fact that deals
are getting done,” Quigley said. “There is still a
considerably large wall of investor money.”  Kinder Morgan Energy, the pipeline company whose general
partner went public this month, sold $1.1 billion of 5- and 30-
year bonds, Bloomberg data show. Proceeds will be used to repay
commercial paper borrowings and for general partnership
purposes, the Houston-based company said in a Feb. 23 regulatory
filing.  Middle East Uncertainty  Issuance will likely increase next week as “the market has
a tendency to rebound quickly,” Mizuho’s Cox said. Uncertainty
in the Middle East may even make U.S. markets more attractive,
he said.  “I really believe that even if the market remains globally
choppy that people will look to the USA and other developed
countries for stability,” Mizuho’s Cox said. “The U.S.
certainly looks like a nice place to put your money these
days.”  Baker & Taylor Inc., the book distributor based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , plans to sell $240 million of five-
year notes to help repay outstanding debt, according to a person
familiar with the transaction. Jefferies Group Inc. will market
the notes through March 2, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 