-- 
Treasury’s Miller Says U.S. TARP Investments Face Market Risk

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-02-25T18:07:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/u-s-tarp-stakes-face-considerable-market-risk-treasury-s-miller-says.html
The U.S. Treasury’s investments in
banks, automakers and  American International Group Inc . face
ongoing risk even as they may come close to breaking even, an
official said today.  The government so far has recouped about $275 billion out
of $410 billion of investments made through the Troubled Asset
Relief Program,  David Miller , the program’s chief investment
officer, said in a speech at Columbia University.  “While much work remains, and there is considerable market
risk to these investments, we anticipate the cost of this
program will be negligible and merely a fraction of what was
initially estimated,” Miller said in his prepared remarks. “It
is my view that subject to market conditions, the TARP
investment portfolio, when taken as a whole, is likely to break
even.”  Congress passed the $700 billion TARP in 2008 to inject
capital into U.S. banks and help them shed the troubled assets
that were clogging their balance sheets. The program was later
expanded to prop up AIG and the  auto industry  and also to help
homeowners facing foreclosure.  Miller said Treasury should finish selling off its largest
stakes -- in  Citigroup Inc ., AIG,  General Motors Co ., Chrysler
Group LLC and Ally Financial Inc. -- “in the next few years,”
where it has not done so already. He said last year’s Dodd-Frank
financial overhaul bill will help the government avoid similar
bailouts in the future.  “The system must have flexibility to respond to unexpected
and destabilizing events,” Miller said. “Regulators should not
be faced with having no option but to keep banks alive and Dodd-
Frank creates a framework for this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  