-- 
U.S. Economy Grew 2.8% in Fourth Quarter, Revised From 3.2%

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-02-25T14:37:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/u-s-economy-expands-2-8-in-fourth-quarter-revised-from-3-2-.html
The  U.S. economy  grew at a 2.8
percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, slower than
previously calculated and less than forecast as state and local
governments made deeper cuts in spending.  The revised increase in gross domestic product compares
with a 3.2 percent estimate issued last month and a 2.6 percent
gain in the third quarter, figures from the Commerce Department
showed today in Washington. The economy, excluding inventories,
grew at a 6.7 percent pace, the most since 1998.  Americans may be in a better position to keep spending
after tax cuts put more money in their pockets, while companies
such as  Caterpillar Inc . benefit from faster economies overseas
and business investment. A surge in  oil prices  sparked by
turmoil in  Africa  and more cutbacks by state and local
governments represent risks to growth.  “The economy underperformed expectations in the fourth
quarter,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in West Chester,  Pennsylvania . Still, “if you
factor in the rising gas prices, the economy is performing well.
Consumers are taking the rise in gasoline prices in stride” so
far, he said.  For all of 2010, the world’s largest economy expanded 2.8
percent, the most in five years, after shrinking 2.6 percent in
2009. The volume of all goods and services produced rose to
$13.37 trillion in the final three months of 2010.  Economists projected a 3.3 percent gain in fourth-quarter
GDP, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
of 77 economists. Estimates ranged from 3 percent to 4.4
percent.  Stocks Rise  Stocks rose after the report, with the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index gaining 0.6 percent to 1,313.87 at 9:36 a.m. in  New
York . Treasuries were little changed from yesterday, with the
yield on the benchmark 10-year note at 3.45 percent.  State and local government expenditures fell at a 2.4
percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, compared with a
previous estimate of a 0.9 percent drop. In the third quarter,
state and local government spending rose 0.7 percent.  California should scale back pension promises to public
workers and reshape the benefits system to make it similar to
those used in industry to rein in costs, a state oversight panel
recommended. Government pension costs are no longer sustainable,
the independent Little Hoover Commission said yesterday.  Public Pensions  The rising cost and underfunding of public employee
pensions has sparked a national debate, most recently in  Wisconsin  where Republican Governor Scott Walker has asked the
Legislature to boost contributions from state workers.
California’s 10 largest public pension funds were short a
combined $240 billion in 2010, the commission found.  Household purchases, about 70 percent of the economy, rose
at a 4.1 percent pace, the most since the same three months in
2006, compared with 4.4 percent originally estimated and a 2.4
percent rate in the third quarter.  The gain in  consumer spending  compared with a 4.2 percent
median forecast in the Bloomberg survey and followed a 2.4
percent increase the prior quarter. Purchases added 2.9
percentage points to growth.  The  Federal Reserve ’s preferred price gauge, which is tied
to consumer spending and strips out food and energy costs,
climbed at a 0.5 percent annual pace. The Fed’s longer term
projection for inflation is a range of 1.6 percent to 2 percent.
Rising oil and food costs may push up the prices of other goods
and services.  Oil Prices  Oil that topped $100 a barrel this week threatens to
restrain consumer spending at the same time unemployment stands
at 9 percent. For each sustained 10 percent gain in oil prices,
economic growth may be reduced by an average 0.2 percentage
point in the subsequent year, Jan Hatzius, chief U.S. economist
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York, wrote in a note to
clients yesterday.  A 14 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since
Sept. 30, reduced debt and gradual improvement in the labor
market are giving consumers the wherewithal to spend.    Saks Inc ., the New York-based luxury retail chain,
yesterday reported its first fourth-quarter profit in three
years as improved  consumer confidence  prompted customers to
splurge on apparel and handbags again during the holiday season.
Saks forecast a mid-single digit increase in percentage terms in
sales at stores open at least a year in 2011.  In addition to consumer spending, fourth-quarter growth got
a lift from a narrowing trade deficit as exports climbed, which
added 3.4 points to growth, the most since 1980.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, is projecting 2011 sales will top $50 billion after
$42.6 billion last year.  Sales ‘Improving’  “Sales are improving in every region, and are at or near
records in the developing world,”  Mike DeWalt , director of
investor relations at Caterpillar, said on a Jan. 27
teleconference. “We’ve become somewhat more positive about
economic growth in the developed economies of  North America ,  Europe , and Japan.”  Spending on equipment and software grew at a revised 5.5
percent pace, compared with 15.4 percent in the prior quarter.  Slower inventory accumulation shaved 3.7 points from
growth, the most since 1988. Inventories last quarter were
stocked at a $7.1 billion pace, compared with an originally
reported $7.2 billion rate and down from a $121.4 billion rate
in the third quarter. Leaner stockpiles may help set the stage
for faster growth in the first half of this year.  Wages and Salaries  Today’s report also showed that in the third quarter, wages
and salaries increased by a revised $54.9 billion from the
previous three months, compared with $52 billion initially
reported. The figures incorporate new, more comprehensive data
from tax records and may help support the biggest part of the
economy in coming months. Pay rose by $53.4 amount in the fourth
quarter, today’s report said.  As spending picks up, companies like Motorola Solutions
Inc. and  Intel Corp . are planning on adding workers.  “I do think we’ll expand, I think it’ll be more surgical
and incremental,” Gregory Brown , chief executive officer of
Motorola Solutions Inc., said in a Feb. 18 interview at a
Business Council meeting in Fort Lauderdale,  Florida . “There’ll
be opportunities for hiring, but I would characterize it as
relatively modest going forward.”  Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, last week announced
plans to build a $5 billion microprocessor plant in Chandler,
Arizona, and hire 4,000 U.S. employees this year.  Tax-Cut Extension  The government’s extension in December of President George
W. Bush’s tax cuts, renewal of emergency jobless benefits for
the long-term unemployed and cuts to payroll taxes of 2
percentage points prompted economists such as Hatzius at Goldman
Sachs to raise forecasts for 2011.  The measures also let firms depreciate 100 percent of
capital expenditures over the course of 2011. That will help
sustain demand for equipment, which together with growing
exports to  China ,  Brazil  and other fast-growing countries, has
fueled the factory-led recovery that began in June 2009.  Today’s GDP estimate is the second of three for the
quarter, with the other release scheduled in March when more
information becomes available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  