-- 
U.S. Close to Issuing Oil Permits, Bromwich Says

-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-02-28T12:24:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/u-s-close-to-issuing-deep-water-permits-bromwich-says-1-.html
(Corrects depth of waters in fifth paragraph of story
published Feb. 25.)  The U.S. is close to issuing permits
for deep-water drilling in the  Gulf of Mexico , said Michael R. Bromwich, head of the government agency that oversees offshore
oil exploration.  “I’m quite confident that we’re getting very close to the
point where we can begin issuing deep-water permits,” Bromwich,
director of the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation
and Enforcement , told reporters in Houston. “We are going to
continue having constructive dialogue and engagement with
industry.”  The Interior Department hasn’t issued permits for drilling
in the deep waters in the Gulf of Mexico and had said the
industry hasn’t demonstrated the ability to shut oil flow from a
deep-water leak similar to the one that occurred at a BP Plc
well last year.  Marine Well Containment Co., a nonprofit group formed by
Exxon Mobil Corp. and ConocoPhillips, is developing a system
using some of the equipment that helped plug BP’s gushing well
in the Gulf of Mexico last year. It is able to capture 60,000
barrels a day from waters 8,000 feet (2,438 meters) deep, the
group said on Feb. 17.    Helix Energy Solutions Group Inc ., which provided vessels
during the response to the BP spill, is leading a group of 20
companies working on a separate containment system. Helix is
able to flare 10,000 barrels of oil a day and can deploy the
Helix Q4000 rig and a stack of valves to cap a well in waters as
deep as 5,600 feet, Chief Executive Officer Owen Kratz said
yesterday.  Cobalt International Energy Inc., a Houston-based
exploration company and a member of the Helix group, won
Interior Department approval yesterday for its exploration plan
in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico, the first step toward
winning a permit to drill. The regulator has until March 24 to
rule on an exploration plan submitted by Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  