-- 
Huawei Says It's No Threat to U.S. Security, Invites Probe on Any Concerns

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-25T00:26:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/huawei-says-it-s-no-threat-to-u-s-security-invites-probe-on-any-concerns.html
Huawei Technologies Co. said
perceptions that the Chinese phone-network equipment maker
threatens U.S. national security are unfounded and invited the
government to probe the company about any concerns it may have.  “Over the past 10 years, as we have been investing in the  United States , we have encountered a number of misperceptions
that some hold about Huawei,” Ken Hu, chairman of Huawei’s U.S.
operations,  wrote  in an open letter on the company’s website.
“We sincerely hope that the United States government will carry
out a formal investigation on any concerns it may have.”  The comments come a week after the company withdrew its
purchase of  Santa Clara , California-based 3Leaf Systems’s
patents, in compliance with a recommendation by the  Committee on
Foreign Investment  in the United States. China’s Ministry of
Commerce said last week the move was regrettable and that U.S.
intervention on Chinese companies’ investments in recent years
has affected trade cooperation between both sides.  Unfounded perceptions about Huawei include claims of close
ties with the Chinese military, allegations of financial support
from the Chinese government, and threats to national security,
Hu wrote.  Huawei has been trying to expand in the U.S. for the past
three years and has been thwarted repeatedly as U.S. lawmakers
raised opposition about security risks from the Chinese company.
Prior to 3Leaf, Huawei failed in bids to acquire companies
including 3Com Corp. in 2008 and 2Wire and Motorola’s wireless
business last year.  ’Serious Risk’  Huawei’s possession of 3Leaf’s technology “could pose a
serious risk” to U.S. computer networks, five U.S. lawmakers
wrote to Obama this month.  The repeated rejection of investment by Huawei in cases
from 3Com to 3Leaf shows that the U.S. is using security
concerns as a pretext to reject investment by Chinese companies,
Yao Jian, spokesman for  China ’s Ministry of Commerce said Feb.
17. This “has influenced Sino-U.S. cooperation,” Yao said.  “As far as the investment activities of Chinese
enterprises in the United States, it’s clear that there are many
cases where the United States is using a security review to
refuse investment by Chinese companies,” Yao said.  The U.S. should increase the transparency of the approval
process and give Chinese companies investing in the U.S. “fair
treatment,” Yao said.  Cloud Computing  3Leaf, founded in 2004, developed technology for cloud
computing that lets businesses and government agencies move
applications and programs such as e-mail to remote networks
owned and operated by a third-party.  Huawei is China’s largest maker of phone network equipment,
and ranks second globally only to Stockholm-based Ericsson AB,
according to  Redwood City , California-based Dell’Oro Group.
Huawei’s share of the global market for mobile phone network
equipment almost doubled to 21 percent in the third quarter of
2010, from 11 percent in the third quarter of 2008, according to
Dell’Oro Group. Ericsson’s share was 34 percent in the third
quarter.  Still, Huawei has had difficulty penetrating the U.S. In
2009, combined revenue in North and South America accounted for
only 12 percent of Huawei’s total sales of $21.8 billion,
spokesman Ross Gan said in November. China accounted for about
33 percent, other Asian markets 20 percent, and  Europe , the
Middle East and  Africa  accounted for 35 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  