-- 
UBS’s Hatheway Sees Support for Oil Price at Current Levels

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-02-25T13:09:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/ubs-s-hatheway-sees-support-for-oil-price-at-current-levels.html
Oil, which reached a 29-month high
yesterday on concern the turmoil that has cut  Libya ’s output
will spread to other parts of the Middle East, is unlikely to
surrender its recent gains, according to Larry Hatheway, chief
economist for  UBS Investment Bank .  “I tend to think oil prices will be supported at around
current levels by demand,” Hatheway said in an interview in
Cape Town, South Africa today. “Spikes can’t be ruled out if
the unrest spreads or even just continues.”  Crude gained as much as 5.4 percent to $103.41 a barrel
yesterday, and traded at $97.48 at 2:47 p.m. Johannesburg time.
The price fluctuated after the U.S., Saudi Arabia and the  International Energy Agency  made assurances they can compensate
for any disruption to Libyan supplies.  “The spreading political risk and popular discontent
caught a lot of observers by surprise,” Hatheway said. “It’s
very, very difficult to know whether it would extend beyond the
North African and Middle East countries that thus far have been
affected.”  Several countries, including  India  and  South Africa , have
raised concern over recent days that the surge in oil prices may
stoke inflation.  High fuel prices typically have a greater inflationary
impact in emerging economies where consumers spend a proportion
of their income on necessities such as energy and food, Hatheway
said. Central banks may have to raise  interest rates  in
response, he said.  “We do think that the Chinese authorities have some work
left to be done,” he said. “Their concerns are not just about
inflation, but an overshoot of credit, and in some areas perhaps
overheating in the domestic economy.”  Hatheway expects investors to continue decreasing their
holdings in emerging markets until the political turmoil in the
Middle East subsides.  “Equity markets have taken a bit of a setback,” he said.
The higher  oil prices  have begun to raise “concerns about
growth. Investors are beginning to think not just about
inflation consequences, but about the growth consequences of
higher commodity prices overall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 