-- 
Geologist Bets on $70 Billion Oil Find Chasing Atlantic Drift

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-02-25T00:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/tullow-geologist-gambles-on-70-billion-oil-find-by-chasing-atlantic-drift.html
More than 90 million years ago, when
the land mass of Pangaea began separating into the continents we
now call South America and Africa, the earth may have produced a
lucrative farewell gift: huge oil and gas deposits along both
coastlines where they had previously been joined.  Now, Angus McCoss, exploration director and chief geologist
at  Tullow Oil Plc , which in 2007 discovered one of the biggest
oil finds of recent years off the coast of West Africa, is
betting more than $100 million that a similar bonanza awaits off
South America’s eastern shore, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in
its Feb. 28 issue.  Tullow and partners  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and  Total SA  by
the end of March will start drilling their first deepwater test
well about 100 miles (160 kilometers) off French Guiana, a
sliver of South American rainforest best known as a former penal
colony. The prospect field, called Zaedyus, lies 21,000 feet
(6,400 meters) below the ocean’s surface.  McCoss, who spent most of his career at Shell, aims to
repeat the success of Jubilee, Tullow’s 120,000 barrel-a-day
field off  Ghana  on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean. He’s
optimistic because of evidence that Zaedyus mirrors Jubilee’s
geology, formed in the Cretaceous period when the African and
South American land masses began to separate.  “Tullow has proven more than once they are capable of
thinking outside the box,” says Thierry Pilenko, chief executive
officer of oil service provider Technip. The idea of twin basins
on either side of the Atlantic is “compelling,” he said.  Bight of  Benin   A glance at a map shows how South America would once have
fit snugly into Africa’s Bight of Benin. Zaedyus is the first
well to test the “Atlantic mirror” theory and the payoff could
be huge. Computer models estimate the field may hold 700 million
barrels in gross reserves, valued at more than $70 billion at
today’s oil prices.  “Zaedyus is the most exciting well of the year, as bold as
it gets,” says McCoss, who joined Tullow in 2006. “It’s
remarkable to try to open up a new basin in 2011. There aren’t
many opportunities left in the world.”  The world’s largest oil companies missed out on the Jubilee
find. Tullow’s partners in Ghana are  Anadarko Petroleum Corp .
and private equity-backed Kosmos Energy. In French Guiana,
however, Shell and Total,  Europe ’s largest and third-biggest oil
companies, have bought shares in Tullow’s field and agreed to
shoulder the majority of the $110 million cost of surveying the
area and drilling the well.  McCoss says the chance of finding oil from the first test
well to be drilled in French Guiana is probably about 15
percent.  ‘It’s Risky’  “It’s exciting, but it’s risky,” said Yves-Louis Darricarrere, Total’s head of exploration and production. “It’s
a good example of how we want to be more bold. I like to
associate with those I admire.”  Geologists believe that when the Atlantic Ocean started
opening between  South America  and Africa, organic sediment
resulted in hydrocarbon deposits known as the  Late Cretaceous 
turbidite sands. They haven’t been drilled to date because they
are less visible than other types of deposits and drilling at
such depths has only recently become viable.  “Integrated oil companies aren’t as comfortable with the
risks of drilling these wild cat types of wells as explorer
companies have been,” says  Oswald Clint , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein. “The deep waters off French Guiana have never been
explored.”  Devil’s Island  French Guiana is an overseas region of  France  with a
population of about 230,000. Starting in the 1850s, the country
began deporting convicts to a penal colony known as Devil’s
Island off the coast, a practice that lasted about a century.
Arianespace, the world’s biggest commercial satellite launcher,
launches satellites from Kourou, near the capital Cayenne.  “We’ve been very encouraged by three-dimensional seismic
we’ve shot in French Guiana,” McCoss said, referring to studies
of reserves done using sound waves. “We’ve found, as we had
hoped, that it is in the heart of a major turbidite sand
system.”  Tullow is also a partner in the Jaguar exploratory field
off nearby Guyana, scheduled for drilling later this year.
Spain’s  Repsol YPF SA  and Canada’s CGX Energy Inc. are the other
participants in that field.  Exxon Mobil Corp . also holds
offshore Guyanan acreage. In Suriname, a former Dutch colony
that sits between  Guyana  and French Guiana, Murphy Oil, Repsol,
Japan’s Inpex, and Tullow hold acreage.  Angola Drilling  Oil companies are preparing to test a similar theory of
reserves mirroring each other across the Atlantic by drilling
into so-called pre-salt formations off Angola. They may resemble
structures in  Brazil  that scientists say could hold 124 billion
barrels of oil.  Brazil’s state-controlled Petrobras’s Lula field,
discovered in 2006 and formerly known as Tupi, was the biggest
find in the Americas since  Mexico ’s Cantarell in 1976. BP, Exxon
Mobil and Total are among companies that have been awarded
rights to explore the Angolan pre-salt blocks.   London-based Tullow, which isn’t involved in  Angola , plans 
to invest at least $500 million to drill about 40 exploration
and appraisal wells this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 