-- 
Unions Rally at New Jersey Capitol Against Christie, Walker

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-02-25T20:28:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/unions-rally-in-rain-at-new-jersey-s-statehouse-against-christie-walker.html
Thousands of union members rallied
in the rain outside New Jersey’s Capitol to protest Governor  Chris Christie ’s proposed benefit cuts and show support for
workers fighting  Wisconsin  Governor  Scott Walker ’s bill to limit
collective bargaining.  More than 3,000 people gathered today, according to Sgt.
Brian Polite, a spokesman for the state police. Protesters clad
in slickers and boots carried signs that read, “Christie for
Ex-Governor” and “Unions Built the Middle Class,” and sang
labor anthems including “We Shall Overcome.” Fifty-seven
unions were represented, according to the New Jersey Education
Association, the state’s teachers union.  Republican governors including Christie, Wisconsin’s Scott Walker and Ohio’s John Kasich are trying to change rules for
collective bargaining and worker contributions for health care
and pensions as U.S. states face deficits that may reach a
combined $125 billion in the next fiscal year.  “We will turn back Walker in Wisconsin together,” Larry Cohen, national president of the  Communications Workers of
America , which represents 55,000 state and local-government
employees in  New Jersey , told the crowd. “We will turn back
Kasich in Ohio together. And we will turn back Chris Christie
together. That’s how it happens: First it’s a spark, then a
flame and it grows. Today, we’re a movement.”  Premium Costs  Christie wants to force government workers to cover 30
percent of their health-care premiums, up from about 8 percent
now. The first-term governor also has proposed reversing a 9
percent pension-benefits increase enacted in 2001, raising the
minimum  retirement age  and freezing annual cost-of-living
raises.  Lawmakers in Wisconsin’s Senate are deadlocked over
Walker’s proposal to restrict collective bargaining. In Ohio,
Kasich has also called for charging employees more for benefits.
Such proposals have sparked union demonstrations in Wisconsin,  Ohio  and  Indiana . Rallies were planned for 27 states this week,
including today’s in Trenton, which packed the steps and shut
down traffic in front of the Statehouse.  “We won’t stand for governors who decide to throw
contracts away,” said Bill Lucini, 57, business agent of the
National Association of Letter Carriers in Philadelphia, “We’ll
go to every state if we have to.”  Tea Party  About two-dozen Tea Party supporters marched in favor of
Christie about a half-block from the rally. Members of the
movement, a loose coalition of anti-tax advocates, said the
Christie legislation would level a playing field that has become
skewed toward unions and must be corrected.  “This is over-reaching and this is not what unions were
created for,” Anna Little, mayor of Highlands and a Tea Party-
backed Republican congressional candidate who lost in November,
said to reporters prior to the rally. “It is perfectly
appropriate for any employer at any time to determine what
salary, wages, and benefits are available to his or her
employees. And that’s what the state of New Jersey is attempting
to do.”    Michael Drewniak , spokesman for the governor, declined to
comment on the union gathering and circulated a transcript of a
radio interview yesterday in which Christie said he didn’t care
about the event. Christie was in  Washington  today for a National
Governors Association meeting, according to Maria Comella, a
spokeswoman.  Unions Next  Those at the rally included state workers, teachers and
local-government employees from across New Jersey, as well as
about a dozen Democratic lawmakers. Industrial unions from the
Garden State, neighboring Pennsylvania and  Virginia  also
attended.  If government-union rights go down, companies’ labor groups
may be next in line, said Stan Luck, 47, an employee with New
York-based telephone company  Verizon Communications Inc . and CWA
member who traveled from his home in Richmond, Virginia, for the
demonstration.  “This will have a snowball effect that will impact
everyone,” said Rita Hrcsko, 54, a registered nurse and member
of Local 5058 of the Health Professionals and Allied Employees.
“Everybody has the basic right to negotiate a contract.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 