-- 
United Overseas Bank's Profit Rises 35% as Fees Outweigh Loan-Margin Drop

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-02-25T06:37:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/united-overseas-bank-s-profit-rises-35-as-fees-outweigh-loan-margin-drop.html
  United Overseas Bank Ltd ., the
smallest among Singapore’s three banks, said fourth-quarter
profit gained 35 percent as higher sales of investment products
boosted fees and commissions, offsetting a drop in loan margins.  Net income rose to S$706 million ($554 million) in the
three months ended Dec. 31 from S$522 million a year earlier,
the company said today in a Singapore stock exchange  statement .
That’s higher than S$551 million average estimate of seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Singapore banks are selling more investment products as the
city’s shares climbed for a second year in 2010, with the
benchmark  Straits Times Index  reaching its highest since the
global financial crisis in 2008. The economy expanded a record
14.5 percent last year, probably the world’s second fastest
after Qatar, based on International Monetary Fund estimates.  Trading and investment income gained because of “stronger
market sentiments,” the bank said in the statement. “Amidst a
subdued interest-rate environment coupled with massive liquidity
and keen competition, interest-margin compression was countered
by higher loan volumes and fee income.”  United Overseas shares gained 2.8 percent to S$18.50 as of
2:13 p.m. local time, the most in almost nine months. The stock
has advanced 1.7 percent this year, while its rivals  DBS Group
Holdings Ltd . and Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. declined.  Fees, Commission  Non-interest income doubled to S$700 million in the period
from S$350 million a year ago. Fee and commission income,
including for credit cards and  fund management , climbed 26
percent to S$310 million.  “Asset quality remains arguably the best amongst all three
banks, with more than sufficient provisioning and low non-
performing loans,” James Koh, an analyst at Kim Eng Securities
Pte, said in an e-mailed note. “However, the same worries also
persist, that it is not doing enough to grow, as compared to the
other two banks which are being very aggressive on all fronts.”  Net interest income, or the difference between what the
bank makes from lending and what it pays on deposits, dropped 3
percent to S$865 million in the quarter. The net interest margin,
a measure of loan profitability, narrowed to 1.91 percent from
2.28 percent a year earlier, United Overseas said.  The lower margin was the “main driver for the
disappointing net interest income development,” Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, which has a “buy” recommendation on the
stock, said in a research report today. “On the other hand,
commission income was surprisingly strong.”  The bank said its housing loans, which gained 22 percent to
S$33.5 billion at the end of the year, was “the major sector”
that contributed to its customer loans’ total growth for 2010.    Singapore ’s economic growth boosted home sales, driving
private residential prices to a record in the fourth quarter,
according to government data. The gain also prompted new curbs
including limits on loans and higher sales taxes.  For the full year, profit gained 42 percent to S$2.7
billion from S$1.9 billion a year earlier, beating the S$2.5
billion average estimate of 24 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  