-- 
USDA Offers $1.33 Billion to Settle Farm-Women Bias Cases

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-02-25T23:22:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/usda-offers-1-33-billion-to-settle-farm-women-bias-cases.html
The  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
said it will provide at least $1.33 billion in compensation as
part of a “streamlined process” to settle bias lawsuits
brought by Hispanic and women farmers.  The government will also provide as much as $160 million
in farm-debt relief, Agriculture Secretary  Tom Vilsack  said
today in a conference call with reporters. The process may
allow claimants to resolve cases without litigation, he said.  The USDA has faced claims from black, women, Hispanic and
Native American farmers for past racial discrimination. The
largest lawsuit, Pigford v. Glickman, was filed by black
farmers and led to a $1.25 billion settlement in December. A
case involving American Indians was filed in 1999 and settled
for $680 million in October.  “Every farmer and rancher should be treated equally and
fairly,” Vilsack said during today’s conference call.  Growers who establish their claims, which would cover
discrimination from 1981 to 2000, can receive as much as
$50,000 through the non-judicial process, Vilsack said.
Individual lawsuits will still be an option should a farmer
feel higher damages are warranted.  The settlement allows women and Hispanic farmers a less-
onerous way to gain redress for past injustices while still
giving them the option to seek higher amounts, Vilsack said.  Plan Criticized  Attorney Kristine Dunne of Arent Fox LLP, who represents
some of the women farmers, said the administration’s plan seems
hurried and may not provide adequate compensation.  “Having waited so long for justice, the women farmers
deserve to have their claims heard in a fair and equitable
process,” she said in a news release.  The USDA’s civil-rights record was highlighted last summer
when Vilsack forced the resignation of department employee  Shirley Sherrod  after an edited video clip released on the
Internet left the impression that the African-American woman
didn’t fully help a white farmer she met with in 1986.  Vilsack and President Barack Obama apologized for the
firing after learning that the full video showed that Sherrod
actually helped the man save his farm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Steve Stroth
at   abjerga@bloomberg.net . 