-- 
Verizon IPhone Drops Calls, Not Endorsed by Consumer Reports

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-02-25T22:22:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/verizon-iphone4-has-dropped-call-problems-consumer-reports-says.html
The  Apple Inc . iPhone 4 carried by
Verizon Wireless suffers from a glitch -- similar to one that
plagues  AT&T Inc .’s version -- that may result in dropped calls
in certain areas,  Consumer Reports  said.  After testing the phone, which was released this month,
Consumer Reports said it won’t include the device on its list of
 recommended smartphones .  “The Verizon iPhone 4 closely resembles the original AT&T
iPhone 4 in many positive respects, including offering great
multimedia functionality, a sharp screen, and the best MP3
player we’ve seen on a phone,” Consumer Reports, published by
Yonkers, New York-based Consumers Union, said on its website.
“Unfortunately, it also shares with its sibling the possibility
of compromised performance in low-signal conditions when used
without a bumper or case.”  The iPhone, which first hit stores in 2007, has become
Apple’s best-selling product. It accounted for 39 percent of
$26.7 billion in total sales in the most recent quarter. Calls
may be dropped when the phone is gripped a way that affects the
phone’s signal strength, the group said.    Consumer Reports  also said the device “performs superbly”
in most respects and that using a case can fix the signal.  Consumer Reports similarly didn’t recommend the iPhone 4
when it was released for AT&T last year, citing an antenna
design flaw that led to dropped calls. Apple Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Jobs  apologized and offered customers free cases
to help fix the problem with the AT&T phones.  Thin Design  “IPhone 4 has a great antenna that allows it to have an
amazingly thin design, great battery life and reception,” said  Natalie Kerris , a spokeswoman for Apple. “We designed the
iPhone 4 external antenna to work great on Verizon’s network.”  Verizon Wireless said less than 0.5 percent of iPhone 4
call attempts fail or are ineffective in major cities, including  New York , Chicago,  San Francisco  and Washington. That’s on par
with the performance of other smartphones on its network, said  Marquett Smith , a spokesman for Verizon Wireless. The company
isn’t recommending that subscribers use bumpers.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, rose $5.28, or 1.5
percent, to close at $348.16 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The
shares have climbed 72 percent in 12 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ; 