-- 
Vietnam Stocks to Extend Slump on Inflation, Bao Viet Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-25T06:58:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/vietnam-stocks-likely-to-extend-slump-bao-viet-vietnam-international-say.html
Vietnam’s benchmark stock index,
which has fallen 11 percent from a nine-month high, is likely to
extend its drop on concern a government plan to curb inflation
will slow the economy, according to Bao Viet Securities Co. and  Vietnam  International Securities Co.  The VN Index rose 1.2 percent to 466.96 at the close in Ho
Chi Minh City today as trading volumes slumped. The gauge
settled yesterday at the lowest level since Dec. 9 after the
government outlined measures to tackle rising prices. The index
may drop to 450, said Pham Thanh Thai Linh, Hanoi-based head of
market strategy at Bao Viet Securities. Cao Thi Hong, vice
general director of Vietnam International, a Hanoi-based
brokerage, foresees the index sliding to 420.  “The package of measures that the government just signed
is still not strong enough and the main concern is that the
general macroeconomy is still bad,” Vietnam International’s
Hong said. “Today’s gain in the VN Index is just like a bump on
a sloping road. The low trading volume today showed that most of
investors are very cautious.”  Vietnam’s Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung is trying revive
investor confidence in an economy facing the strain of consumer
prices that may accelerate from a two-year high as electricity
prices rise and four currency devaluations in 15 months spur
import costs.  Foreign investors sold a net 14.3 billion dong of  shares  on
the Ho Chi Minh City bourse on Feb. 24, taking total sales this
month to 30.8 billion dong, according to data from the exchange.  Weekly Drop  The value of stock traded on the Ho Chi Minh City exchange
tumbled 33 percent from yesterday to 654.6 billion dong, the
lowest level in a month. For the week, the VN Index lost 7.3
percent, the biggest decline since December 2009.  “I still see that a range from 450 to 470 is fair for the
index,” Bao Viet’s Linh said after the market closed. “Low
trading volume indicates there was less selling today since
whoever needs to sell may have already done so.”  His firm is a unit of Bao Viet Holdings, the nation’s
biggest insurer. The company’s shares slipped 3.9 percent to
75,000 dong today. Bao Viet Holdings, the second-biggest company
in the VN Index by market value, slumped 21 percent this week.    Masan Group Corp . rallied 4.6 percent to 79,500 dong,
paring its drop this week to 11 percent. The food and financial
services company is the VN Index’s fourth-biggest member.  The VN Index, a measure of 280 companies, slumped 11
percent from a nine-month high on Feb. 9, exceeding the 10
percent drop some investors refer to as a correction. The gauge
slid 7 percent in the past month, making it  Asia ’s worst
performer after  Pakistan ’s benchmark index.  ‘Still Fragile’  “The market is still fragile as there is no supporting
factor yet,” Bao Viet’s Linh said by phone yesterday. “The
market will drop and then go sideways.”  Dung cut the credit-growth target to below 20 percent from
23 percent for 2011, and asked ministries to narrow the  budget
deficit  to less than 5 percent of gross domestic product this
year, according to a resolution presented on Feb. 24 to policy
makers. Dung urged a “cautious and tight” monetary policy and
lowered this year’s money supply growth target to about 15
percent to 16 percent, down from 21 percent to 24 percent.  The premier also asked the central bank to slow the growth
and proportion of lending in non-productive sectors, especially
property and stock trading. Inflation accelerated to a two-year
high of 12.31 percent this month.  Attractive Valuations  Stock declines have dragged down the average valuation of
the VN Index’s companies to 10.5 times estimated profit from
about 11.7 times on Feb. 9, which was the highest level since
July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “At current  price levels , valuations are already very
attractive, but that doesn’t mean stocks will advance
immediately,” Bao Viet’s Linh said.  The central bank raised its refinancing rate by 2
percentage points to 11 percent last week, and boosted its
reverse repurchase rate on Feb. 22. The bank devalued the dong
on Feb. 11 to curb the nation’s trade shortfall and narrow the
gap between official and black-market exchange rates.  The devaluations raise the risk of higher import costs,
while a planned 15.3 percent increase in power tariffs on March
1 may also spur prices. The government estimates the impact of
the devaluations and increases in fuel and electricity prices
will raise Vietnam’s consumer price index by 2 percentage points
this year, Finance Minister Vu Van Ninh said in Hanoi yesterday.  “The hike in electricity and petroleum prices will put
pressure on inflation in March,” said Vietnam International’s
Hong. “Local investors are losing confidence.”  --Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen, Nguyen Kieu Giang, Diep Ngoc Pham.
Editors: Darren Boey, Richard Frost  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net ;
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  