-- 
Volkswagen Profit Beats Ford With Nine Factories in China Powering Sales

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-02-25T16:38:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/volkswagen-2010-net-income-surges-sevenfold-on-demand-from-chinese-buyers.html
  Volkswagen AG ,  Europe ’s biggest
automaker, passed rival  Ford Motor Co . in the auto industry
earnings race last year on surging demand in China.  Net income surged sevenfold to 6.84 billion euros ($9.42
billion), the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company said today. Ford
posted 2010 profit of $6.56 billion, while  General Motors Co .
reported $4.7 billion.  Toyota Motor Corp . forecasts 490 billion
yen ($6 billion) in profit in the year ending March 31.  Volkswagen aims to surpass Toyota, the world’s largest
carmaker, in sales and profitability by 2018 on growth in  Brazil , Russia,  India  and China. VW forecasts deliveries will
grow 5 percent this year after reporting a record 7.2 million
deliveries of cars and sport-utility vehicles in 2010. Sales in  China , VW’s biggest market, advanced 37 percent last year to
1.92 million on the Lavida sedan and Golf hatchback.  “These are very strong results,” said Frank Biller, an
analyst with Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart,  Germany , who recommends buying VW stock: “The operating
business looks very solid, driven by sound demand from key
markets including China.”  Volkswagen closed up 6.95 euros, or 6.2 percent, to 119.40
euros, the most since Oct. 25, in  Frankfurt . The stock has
dropped 2 percent this year, valuing the carmaker at 52.5
billion euros.  Net income beat the 4.96 billion-euro average estimate of
six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 21 percent to
126.8 billion euros. Earnings before interest and taxes in 2010
advanced to a record 7.14 billion euros, up from 1.85 billion
euros in 2009. VW proposed a 2010 dividend of 2.20 euros per
common share and 2.26 euros per preferred share.  China Expansion  VW, the first overseas carmaker to enter China three
decades ago, is planning to add two plants and double production
to 3 million cars annually. The manufacturer, which also owns
the Audi, Skoda and Lamborghini brands, currently has nine
Chinese factories.  The German automaker today named SEB AB Chief Executive
Officer Annika Falkengren and Qatar Holdings LLC Executive
Director Khalifa Jassim Al-Kuwari to the supervisory board. Al-
Kuwari will be the second board member for Qatar Holdings LLC,
which has a 17 percent VW stake.  RWE CEO Juergen Grossman and former E.ON AG manager Hans Michael Gaul will leave the board to make room for the new
appointments, the carmaker said. Shareholders will vote on the
changes at their May 3 meeting.  Tight Supplies  Tight component supplies stemming from parts-makers’
struggle to keep up with vehicle demand caused VW to halt
production at its main Wolfsburg factory on Jan. 31 and a plant
in Emden. The Audi luxury division announced plans yesterday to
add 2,000 workers as it struggles to keep up with record sales.  “We expect the group’s revenue and operating profit in
2011 to be higher than the previous year,” VW said in the
statement. “However, the continuing volatility in interest and
exchange rate trends and commodities prices will weaken the
positive volume effect.”  VW said in November it will invest 51.6 billion euros
through 2015 on plants, vehicles and developing the carmaker’s
nine brands worldwide. Spending doesn’t include China, the
manufacturer’s biggest market, where VW’s joint ventures will
invest another 10.6 billion euros.  Volkswagen announced yesterday plans to build over 100,000
cars in  Russia  annually with OAO GAZ, the automaker controlled
by billionaire Oleg Deripaska. That comes on top of production
at the carmaker’s own factory in the country in Kaluga.  ‘Well Positioned’  “Volkswagen is extremely well positioned in lucrative
growth markets,” Aleksej Wunrau, a BHF-Bank AG analyst in
Frankfurt with an “overweight” rating on VW stock, said before
the results. “Sales took a slight hit in the fourth quarter but
still performed better than the overall market.”  Volkswagen is facing challenges to complete a planned
merger with Porsche SE. The combination of the two carmakers,
scheduled to happen in the second half, will probably be delayed
until 2012 because of legal investigations into share-price
manipulation allegations affecting the sports-car manufacturer,
Porsche said Feb. 23.  Porsche and VW agreed to combine in August 2009 following a
failed attempt by the Stuttgart-based sports-car maker to
acquire its larger rival. Investors claim Porsche misled them by
denying through much of 2008 it intended to acquire VW. Porsche
said in October of that year it controlled most of VW’s common
stock, causing the shares to surge as short-sellers raced to
cover their positions. Porsche has denied the charges.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  