-- 
Vornado Said to Pay $150 Million for Stake in 1 Park Avenue

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-02-25T20:59:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/vornado-said-to-pay-150-million-for-stake-in-manhattan-s-1-park-avenue.html
  Vornado Realty Trust , which controls
15.2 million square feet (1.4 million square meters) of New York
office buildings, agreed to pay more than $150 million for a
majority stake in a Park Avenue tower whose owner was seeking to
restructure debt, two people with knowledge of the deal said.  The deal values the building, 1 Park Ave., at about $400
million, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the talks are private. Owner Murray Hill Properties, whose
principal is New York real estate investor Norman Sturner, will
stay on as a minority partner, they said.  Near record-low  interest rates  and recovering occupancy
rates have helped raise values for properties in such cities as  New York  and  Washington  where global investor interest is high.
New York-based Vornado is hunting for transactions, armed with
$1.7 billion in cash and credit lines and an investment fund
with more than $1 billion of buying capacity, Ross Smotrich, an
analyst at Barclays Capital Inc., said yesterday in a report.  “If Vornado is doing something like this, that’s a good
sign for the market overall,” said Christopher Macke, senior
real estate strategist for CoStar Group Inc., a Washington-based
property-information service. “When you’ve got a local player
who knows that market incredibly well deciding to increase their
activity level, that’s a pretty good indicator of which
direction that market is heading.”  The transaction may be completed as soon as next week,
according to one of the people.  Buying at Peak  Sturner’s Murray Hill Properties paid $550 million for the
925,000 square-foot, 20-story tower at Park and East 32nd Street
in 2007, when real estate values were cresting, city  records 
show. The company formed a joint venture with Blackacre
Institutional Capital Management LLC, an investment arm of
Cerberus Capital Management LP.  Edna Lassiter, a person listed as a contact for Murray Hill
Properties on its website, didn’t immediately return an e-mail
seeking comment. Roanne Kulakoff, a spokeswoman for Vornado, and  Peter Duda , a spokesman for New York-based Cerberus, both
declined comment.  Carlton Group Inc. represented Murray Hill in the
recapitalization. Gail Horowitz, a spokeswoman for  New York- 
based Carlton, didn’t immediately return a phone call.  Senior, Mezzanine Loans  The property’s owners have $375 million of senior debt that
was packaged as bonds and sold to investors in two commercial
mortgage-backed securities issues, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. They also have two mezzanine notes totaling about
$100 million, the two people said.  Mezzanine loans are a form of higher-interest debt that’s
subordinate to a first mortgage. They’re backed by an equity
stake in the company owning a property, typically allowing the
landlord to leverage more of the asset’s value than a primary
lender would.  The senior debt was moved to special servicing in August of
2009 because of “imminent default,” according to servicer
notes compiled by Bloomberg.  The building paid only 98 percent of its debt service in
2010, according to Realpoint LLC, a real estate credit-rating
service. Its  cash flow  may improve because a tenant, NYU Langone
Medical Center, is in negotiations to expand, the people said.  The  1 Park Avenue  building was completed in 1925, according
to Murray Hill’s website. Its lobby features ornate barrel-
shaped chandeliers hanging from criss-cross vaulted ceilings and
marble-clad elevators. The building was designed by York &
Sawyer, who were also the architects of the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York building in lower  Manhattan , according to
Emporis.com, a building information website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  