-- 
Walker’s Bill Gives Wisconsin Police a Pass on Pension Payments

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-02-25T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/walker-says-public-safety-means-wisconsin-cops-keep-collective-bargaining.html
Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker 
exempted police and firefighters from a bill limiting collective
bargaining to avoid jeopardizing public safety, a spokesman
said. A similar bill in Ohio includes the groups.  If Walker’s bill passes, public-safety workers would pay
little or nothing toward their pensions and negotiate raises as
a group. All other state employees would pay 5.8 percent of
their wages toward their pensions, and voters would have to
approve raises that outpace inflation. Those in uniform would
pay 6 percent of their health-care premiums; civilians would pay
about 12 percent.  Labor actions could interrupt services if the measure’s
bargaining limits are imposed on police and firefighters’
unions, Walker has said. His motive in excluding them from the
bill was “contingency planning to ensure public safety,” Chris
Schrimpf, his spokesman, said in an e-mail.  States face deficits that may reach a combined $125 billion
in the next fiscal year. Republican governors including Walker,
Ohio Governor John Kasich and  New Jersey ’s  Chris Christie  are
trying to change rules for collective bargaining and worker
contributions for health care and pensions.  The governors say the changes will let state and local
governments manage budget cuts. Critics say the efforts are
“union busting.”  Walker excluded police to avoid losing backing for his bill
because emergency workers enjoy public support, said Jim Palmer,
executive director of the 11,000-member Wisconsin Professional
Police Association.  ‘Politically Motivated’  “It was politically motivated more than anything else,”
Palmer said in a telephone interview from Madison.  His union didn’t endorse Walker last year; all but four of
314 police and fire unions in state backed the Democratic
candidate, said Cullen Werwie, a spokesman for Walker.  “I can’t have the possibility anywhere in the state of  Wisconsin  that if there was a fire or a crime or anything else
that there would be one gap, one interruption in services out
there because there’s no way we’re going to put the public
safety at risk,” Walker said in a Feb. 21 press conference.  Leaders of the  Wisconsin Professional Police Association 
and the 3,000-member  Professional Fire Fighters of Wisconsin 
said their members oppose the bill and support protests that
have swarmed around the Capitol in Madison since last week.  “It’s an attack on the middle class,” Mahlon Mitchell,
president of the Fire Fighters of Wisconsin, said in a telephone
interview from Madison. “There’s a fire in the house of labor,
and where there’s a fire, the fighter goes and puts it out.”  Avoiding the Ax  It is illegal in Wisconsin and  Ohio  for police and
firefighters to strike.  The Ohio bill would allow state and local government
workers to bargain for wages only and eliminate binding
arbitration for resolving contract disputes. The restrictions
would be applied to police and firefighter unions. Lawmakers
worried that contracts would force governments to fire emergency
workers, rather than reducing costs in other ways, said
Republican Senator Shannon Jones, the bill’s sponsor.  “Our public employees are good people, and the last thing
they would want to do is put people’s lives in danger,” Jones
said in an interview.  The Ohio bill also would replace salary schedules with
merit pay, require workers to pay 20 percent of their health-
care costs and prohibit governments from paying any part of
employees’ share of pension costs.  The Wisconsin legislation would restrict collective
bargaining for civilian public employees to wages only, and
voters would have to approve raises higher than the increase in
inflation based on the  Consumer Price Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in  New York  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  