-- 
Ivory Coast Violence Drives Regional Stock Exchange to Mali

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 
2011-02-25T14:56:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/west-africa-stock-market-relocates-to-mali-after-ivory-coast-office-seized.html
West Africa’s regional stock market,
sub-Saharan  Africa ’s fifth-biggest by market value, will
relocate “temporarily” to Bamako, Mali after its offices in
Ivory Coast’s commercial capital, Abidjan, were seized by troops
loyal to incumbent President  Laurent Gbagbo .  The Bourse Regionale des Valeurs Mobilieres was taken over
by security forces on Feb. 9. Today’s statement, which was e-
mailed by the bourse, did not say when trading would restart.  The stop came as the country’s financial system ground to a
halt last week, with at least 10 banks closing their branches
amid the deepening political crisis that has left the world’s
top cocoa producer with two rival administrations. Gbagbo
refuses to cede power to Alassane Ouattara, the internationally
recognized winner of a disputed Nov. 28 election.  The exchange has a market value of 3.5 trillion CFA francs
($7.3 billion), according to Johannesburg-based Securities
Africa.  France Telecom SA ’s Senegalese unit,  Sonatel , is the
biggest company on the BRVM by market value, worth 1.6 trillion  CFA francs . Eight banks, including  Societe Generale  SA’s
Abidjan-based SGBCI unit and  Ecobank Transnational Inc . are
listed.  Violence in Abidjan and the closure of banks made it
“impossible to perform any trades,” said Samir Gadio, a
London-based emerging market analyst at Standard Bank Plc.
“There was no other choice.”  As many as 315 people have been killed in post-election
clashes, according to the United Nations. Pro-Ouattara
protesters have clashed with security forces in several
neighborhoods in Abidjan this week.  Logistics  The move will raise logistical challenges for the exchange,
including the establishment of custodial accounts outside  Ivory
Coast  that will be used for clearing trades and the installation
of a computerized trading system in Mali, Gadio said by phone
today.  Trading on the exchange will likely be limited to local
investors while foreigners work to establish Malian bank
accounts and other infrastructure necessary for conducting
trades, said Dean Ginsberg, head of research for Securities
Africa.  “Mali doesn’t have all the infrastructure for settlement
and foreign exchange like the Ivory Coast,” he said by phone
today. “The companies operating in Ivory Coast are not going to
move to Bamako. There are a lot more questions than answers
right now.” Ivorian companies dominate the listing, accounting
for 33 of 39 companies, according to the bourse’s  website . There
are no Malian companies listed, it shows.  The ICX 10, a composite index of the 10 largest companies
on the exchange, declined 1 percent to close at 184.33 on Feb.
11, the last day for which data is available. Since the
beginning of the year, the index rose 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason McLure in Accra at 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 