-- 
Energy Future Rejects Aurelius Claim of $24 Billion Default

-- B y   P i e r r e   P a u l d e n   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-02-25T21:53:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/txu-rejects-aurelius-capital-s-assertion-of-24-billion-default-on-buyout.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp.,
formerly known as TXU Corp., is rejecting an assertion by hedge
fund Aurelius Capital Management LP that it’s in default on a
$24 billion loan that financed its record buyout by KKR & Co.
and TPG Capital.  The allegations are “utterly meritless,” said Robert Walters, general counsel of Energy Future Holdings. Stephen
Sigmund, spokesman for Aurelius, declined to comment.  The New York-based hedge fund, led by Mark Brodksy, said in
a letter to Citigroup Inc., administrator of the buyout loans,
that payments by the TCEH unit to parent Energy Future aren’t in
accordance with the credit agreement, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter, who declined to be identified
because the letter has not been made public.  The hedge fund has bought about $50 million of Energy
Future loans during the past 10 days, one of the people said.
Citigroup will lead discussions with lenders about Aurelius’s
assertion, the person said.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Citigroup, didn’t immediately return a telephone message left at
her office seeking comment.  Aurelius is among bondholders sponsoring an alternative
reorganization proposal in the bankruptcy proceedings of Tribune
Co., taken private for more than $8 billion in 2007 by
billionaire property investor  Sam Zell . The hedge fund was also
party to lawsuits and restructurings involving General Motors
Corp., MBIA Inc., Ambac Assurance Corp., Dubai World and Vitro
SAB.  TXU, then the largest electricity supplier in  Texas , was
taken private for about $45 billion in 2007. The Dallas-based
company has about $42 billion of debt, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pierre Paulden in  New York  at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  