-- 
Yellen Says Fed Could Use Communication to Ease Policy

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-02-25T18:56:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/yellen-says-fed-could-use-communication-to-affect-easing-unemployment.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said the central bank could use communications to
make policy more accommodative, lower unemployment and raise the
rate of inflation if financial markets expected a tightening of
policy before the Fed intended.  If policy makers expected the Fed’s target rate to stay
lower for longer “and market participants came to share that
view, then financial conditions would become significantly more
accommodative, even in the absence of any change in the current
level of the funds rate,” Yellen said, according to prepared
text of a speech today in  New York .  “Such a shift in policy expectations would be associated
with a lower trajectory for the  unemployment rate ,” Yellen said
at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business’s annual
U.S. Monetary Policy Forum. The shift would also cause “a
somewhat higher path of  core inflation ,” Yellen said.  Yellen is leading a committee of policy makers to evaluate
the effectiveness of the central bank’s communications strategy
as it carries out a plan to purchase $600 billion of Treasuries
by the end of June to boost the recovery.  Yellen also said the policy making  Federal Open Market
Committee  is “regularly reviewing the asset purchase program in
light of incoming information,” echoing the language of its
statements. She said the panel “will adjust the program as
needed” to fulfill its congressional mandate to deliver full
employment and stable prices.  Presents Scenario  The Fed vice chair presented a scenario in which the Fed
persuaded investors that it would postpone a policy tightening
by one year from current expectations. Charts accompanying her
presentation showed unemployment falling by 0.5 percentage point
by 2013 from this action, and core inflation rising by 0.3
point.  She said that “it is not my intention to provide new
information about the outlook for the  U.S. economy  or monetary
policy,” and that she only wanted to “highlight the role of
central bank communications in bolstering the effectiveness of
unconventional monetary policy.”  The Fed first lowered its target interest rate to a range
of zero to 0.25 percent in December 2008. In March 2009, it
began saying it would keep rates low “for an extended period.”  In November 2009, the Fed said it would maintain its policy
so long as the economy had “low rates of resource utilization,
subdued inflation trends, and stable inflation expectations.”  Adjusting Language  Yellen said that “down the road, once the recovery is well
established and the appropriate time for beginning to firm the
stance of policy appears to be drawing near, the FOMC will
naturally need to adjust its ‘extended period’ guidance and
develop an alternative communications strategy to shape market
expectations about the policy outlook.”  She said that in the case the economy faltered, current
communications might cause markets to expect a later tightening
of policy. “The forward guidance now in place might well be
sufficient to facilitate an outward shift in the expected path
of the funds rate, just as we saw over the course of last
year,” she said.  Yellen also elaborated on a defense of the Fed’s large-
scale asset purchases that she gave in Denver last month, saying
that without the purchases, unemployment would have “remained
persistently above 10 percent, and core inflation would have
fallen below zero this year.”  Yellen, 64, became vice chair of the Fed in October after
serving six years as president of the San Francisco Fed. She
also served as a Fed governor from 1994 to 1997 and as chairman
of President  Bill Clinton ’s  Council of Economic Advisers  from
1997 to 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Denver at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  