-- 
Franc Drops as Mideast, Libya Turmoil Eases; N.Z., Australia Dollars Gain

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-02-25T22:06:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/yen-swiss-franc-decline-as-stocks-advance-concern-over-oil-price-eases.html
The Swiss franc fell against most of
its major counterparts as concern eased that the political
turmoil in  Libya  will disrupt global oil markets, denting the
refuge appeal of the currency.  The yen gained against the dollar for an eighth day, the
longest winning streak this year, after data showed the  U.S.
economy  grew more slowly than first estimated in the fourth
quarter. The franc retreated from a record high versus the
greenback as oil slid below $100 a barrel after Saudi Arabia,
the U.S. and the  International Energy Agency  said yesterday they
can compensate for interrupted supply. Stocks rose.  “Trades that were put in for the Swissie and the yen are
being unwound as fear over the oil supply dissipates,” said
Greg Salvaggio, senior vice president of capital markets at
currency-trading firm Tempus Consulting Inc. in Washington.  The franc depreciated 0.2 percent to 92.81 centimes per
dollar at 5 p.m. in  New York  after earlier reaching 92.27
centimes, the strongest level since at least 1971, when
Bloomberg records begin. The Swiss currency rose 0.1 percent to
1.2768 per euro. The dollar gained 0.3 percent versus the euro
to $1.3754, paring a weekly loss to 0.4 percent.  The yen rose 0.3 percent to 81.68 per dollar and advanced
0.6 percent to 112.35 per euro. The Japanese currency fell 0.6
percent to 83.12 yen per Australian dollar.  The franc and the yen tend to strengthen during periods of
financial stress because their export-reliant economies don’t
need foreign capital to balance current accounts -- the broadest
measure of trade.  Higher-Yielding Assets  The Australian,  New Zealand  and Canadian dollars gained
against most major currencies as investors sought higher-
yielding assets such as equities. The  Standard & Poor’s  500
Index advanced 1.1 percent in its first gain in a week. Crude
oil futures traded at $98.22 a barrel in New York after touching
$99.20. They topped $103 yesterday, the highest in 29 months.  Canada’s currency reached the strongest level since March
2008, 97.73 cents per  U.S. dollar . Australia, New Zealand and  Canada  derive the majority of their exports from commodities.  The Aussie, as Australia’s currency is known, appreciated
0.9 percent to $1.0177. It gained for a second week against the
U.S. dollar, rising 0.3 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, also strengthened
today after Standard & Poor’s said the earthquake in
Christchurch would have no immediate effect on the nation’s
credit rating. It rose 0.6 percent to 75.15 U.S. cents. The kiwi
lost 1.3 percent on the week amid concern the quake would hurt
the nation’s economy.  ‘Long  Australia ’  “After the sustained strength in the Aussie this week, it
seems like the only trade that makes sense is long Australia,”
said Tempus’s Salvaggio. A long position is a bet a currency
will appreciate.  The New Zealand currency was the biggest loser over the
past month in a basket of 10 developed-nation currencies in the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. It dropped 3.7
percent, while the euro declined 0.6 percent, the yen slipped
0.5 percent and the dollar lost 1.2 percent.  U.S. gross domestic product expanded in the fourth quarter
at a 2.8 percent annual pace, compared with an earlier estimate
of 3.2 percent, Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . The forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 77
economists was for a 3.3 percent increase.  “Anything that is going to indicate that it is going to
take longer for a self-sustained U.S. recovery is going to
prolong rate hikes and is going to demean the dollar,” said
Jessica Hoversen, a Chicago-based analyst at the futures broker
MF Global Holdings Ltd.  Safety Demand  The franc and yen advanced this week as violence in Libya
spurred demand for safer assets. Leader  Muammar Qaddafi , who has
lost control of much of his North African country’s oil-rich
east, tried to tighten his grip today on the capital, Tripoli.
Libya holds  Africa ’s largest crude oil reserves.  The yen rose 1.8 percent this week against the dollar, the
biggest gain this year, and the franc strengthened 1.7 percent.
Year-to-date, the Japanese currency has depreciated 0.8 percent,
while the Swiss has gained 0.7 percent.    Saudi Arabia  has increased crude oil production this month
in response developments in Libya, the International Energy
Agency said today. The Paris-based IEA said yesterday it’s ready
to release emergency stockpiles, if needed.  Not a Risk  “The oil price increases we’ve seen so far don’t pose a
risk to the recovery,” Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President Jeffrey Lacker told reporters today at a monetary
policy conference in New York.  The pound rose 0.2 percent to 85.33 pence per euro, after
falling for the past five days. Earlier it lost as much as 0.5
percent to 85.93 pence, the weakest level since Jan. 31, after
data showed the British economy shrank more than initially
estimated. Sterling slipped 0.2 percent to $1.6113.  U.K. gross domestic product contracted 0.6 percent in the
fourth quarter, the  Office for National Statistics  said today,
exceeding the Jan. 25 estimate of a 0.5 percent drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  