-- 
Yilmaz Says Mideast Unrest Poses New Challenge to Turkey

-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-02-25T11:05:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/yilmaz-says-mideast-unrest-poses-new-challenge-to-turkey-1-.html
Unrest in the Middle East and
surging  oil prices  have created a “brand new scenario” that’s
likely to change  Turkey ’s inflation forecasts, the central bank
governor,  Durmus Yilmaz , said.  A $10 increase in the price of oil can add about 0.4
percentage points to Turkish inflation, Yilmaz told businessmen
in the western city of Manisa in a televised speech today. He
said the bank’s forecast of 5.9 percent year-end inflation is
likely to be revised when the bank updates policy on April 28.  The prospect of civil war in Libya,  Africa ’s third-biggest
oil producer, has pushed crude oil prices to a 2 1/2-year high.
The Turkish bank’s forecasts are based on $95 a barrel.  Brent
crude  for April settlement reached $119.79 yesterday, the
highest since Aug. 22, 2008, and was up $1.26 at $112.62 at 9:20
a.m. in  London  today.  Turkish inflation slowed to a four-decade low of 4.9
percent in January. The rate will fall further in February
before steadily rising through the rest of the year, Yilmaz said
today.  The bank’s attempts to slow Turkish domestic credit growth
through higher bank reserve requirements appear to be working,
Yilmaz said. Early figures show a “limited” slowdown in loan
expansion. Still, the data are “noisy” and the bank needs to
wait until the end of March to be sure, he said.  Booming domestic demand for imported goods drove the
current-account deficit to a record $7.5 billion in December.
The gap will widen in the first quarter of the year, and the
impact of the bank’s attempts to tame demand and help exports
will become clearer in the second three months, Yilmaz said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 