-- 
Hyundai Motor Chairman Chung Ordered to Pay Automaker $66 Million Damages

-- B y   S o o k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-02-25T10:55:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-25/hyundai-motor-chairman-chung-ordered-by-court-to-pay-automaker-66-million.html
  Hyundai Motor Co . Chairman  Chung Mong Koo  was ordered by a court to pay the company 74.6 billion
won ($66 million) for unfairly helping affiliates at the expense
of the automaker he’s led for a decade.  The Seoul Central District Court dismissed a 1 trillion won
claim by minority shareholders in Hyundai Motor that alleged
billionaire Chung Mong Koo, 72, and his son Chung Eui Sun
inappropriately took control of logistics affiliate Glovis Co.,
depriving the automaker of potential profits.  The ruling, ordering Chung Mong Koo to pay Hyundai, may
encourage more lawsuits by minority shareholders in  South Korea ,
where four of the five biggest companies by market value are
controlled by the founding families, said Park Yoon Bae,
president of  Seoul  Invest, a private-equity firm.  “We need to end the unfair practice at conglomerates of
managerial control and fortunes being kept in the family,” said
Park, whose firm buys small stakes in large South Korean
companies and agitates for change.  Chung Mong Koo’s lawyers at Barun Law in Seoul weren’t
immediately available to comment on whether he will appeal the
decision.  Chung Mong Koo, whose holdings in Hyundai, its units and
Glovis are valued at $5.7 billion, is set to earn 5.3 billion
won in dividend payments from his 20 percent stake in Glovis
this year.  Shares Rise  Shares of Hyundai Motor, South Korea’s biggest automaker,
advanced 2.3 percent to close at 175,000 won in Seoul while
Glovis was unchanged at 139,500 won. The benchmark Kospi index
gained 0.7 percent.  “I don’t think any result in this suit could have a big
impact on Hyundai Motor’s financial value and it’s unlikely to
have a major effect on its stock,” Lee Myung Hoon, a Seoul-
based analyst at E*Trade Securities Co., said in a phone
interview before the ruling.  Judge Yeo Hoon Koo said Chung had breached his duty to
Hyundai Motor, along with former vice chairman Kim Dong Jin, who
was ordered to pay 8 billion won. Chung is jointly liable for
this sum.  The shareholders, including the group  Solidarity for
Economic Reform , filed a civil suit against Chung and Kim in May
2008 alleging that: Hyundai Mobis was allowed to charge Hyundai
Motor too much for parts; Glovis received inflated shipping fees
through orders from Hyundai Motor and its affiliates; and
Hyundai Motor was used to help pay Kia’s debts to  Hyundai Mobis .  A group of minority shareholders may appeal after the court
rejected their claim that the Chungs inappropriately seized
control of Glovis.  ‘Disappointed’  “We are very disappointed,” said Kim Sang Jo, Solidarity
for Economic Reform’s executive director. “We need to hear
higher courts’ juridical judgment on this issue.”  Kim Bong Kyung, a vice president at Hyundai Motor Group,
declined to comment on the ruling today by phone.  Chung was convicted in June 2008 of embezzling almost 70
billion won from Hyundai Motor, Kia and other affiliates, and of
breach of trust, including selling securities in Hyundai Motor
affiliates to his son at below-market prices.  Chung Eui Sun wasn’t indicted. His father, who received a
suspended jail sentence, was pardoned in August 2008 by
President  Lee Myung Bak .  Chung Eui Sun was promoted to vice chairman in 2009 and
appointed to the company’s board, moving a step closer to
succeeding his father.  The case is: Choi Han Soo (plus 14 others) v. Chung Mong
Koo (plus 1 another) 2008 Gahap 47881 Seoul Central District
Court (Seoul).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sookyung Seo in Seoul at 
 sseo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  