-- 
New Zealand First Quarter Business Confidence Slumps Following Earthquake

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-04-04T22:34:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-10/new-zealand-fourth-quarter-business-confidence-rises-update1-.html
New Zealand business confidence
slumped to a two-year low in the first quarter after an
earthquake killed at least 170 people and forced companies to
close in the nation’s second-largest city.  A net 27 percent of 690 companies surveyed expect the
economy will deteriorate over the next six months, from a net 8
percent expecting an improvement in the previous survey, the New
Zealand  Institute of Economic Research  said today in Wellington.
The net figure, which isn’t adjusted for seasonal patterns, is
calculated by subtracting the proportion of pessimists from
optimists.  Falling confidence adds to signs the economy will
experience little growth in the first half of the year after the
magnitude 6.3 earthquake that struck Christchurch in the
province of Canterbury on Feb. 22. Central bank Governor Alan
Bollard to cut the official cash rate by a half a percentage
point last month to aid a recovery from the temblor.  “The earthquake was disruptive but outside of that the
economy was flat,”  Shamubeel Eaqub , principal economist at the
institute, told reporters today. “Profits are still very weak.
Businesses are getting a huge squeeze on their margins.”  Ten of 14 economists surveyed last month forecast Bollard
will keep the benchmark interest rate at 2.5 percent until next
year. Four expect an increase in the fourth quarter. Eaqub
doesn’t expect a move until 2012.  Profitability  Businesses reported that sales and profits declined in the
first quarter, adding to signs of minimal growth in gross
domestic product, today’s report showed. The economy shrank 0.2
percent in the third quarter last year and grew 0.2 percent in
the final three months of the year.  A net 6 percent of companies said trading weakened in the
three months ended March 31, the institute said. A net 28
percent said profits fell, increasing from 21 percent three
months earlier.  Sentiment toward the second quarter is also weak, according
to today’s survey. A net 22 percent of firms expect profits will
fall, from 5 percent in the previous survey.  Investment intentions remain flat, today’s report showed. A
net 7 percent planned to spend less on buildings in the next
quarter from 8 percent. Employment intentions are also little
changed.  Economists monitor the institute’s report to gauge whether
inflation pressures will emerge. Bollard said last month he
expected medium-term inflation to stay within the 1 percent to 3
percent range that he is required to target.  Rising Costs  Current inflation pressures are subdued because demand is
weak and firms cannot pass on rising costs, Eaqub said.  Forty-four percent of companies expect costs will increase
in the second quarter while 14 percent were able to raise prices
in the first quarter, today’s report showed. A net 14 percent of
firms plan to raise prices over the next three months.  “Profitability is being eroded by rising costs,” Eaqub
said. “Building cost pressures and a tightening labor market
suggest medium-term inflationary pressures are emerging.”  A net 10 percent of companies said it is harder to find
skilled workers, up from 7 percent in the previous survey.  Capacity utilization, a measure of factory usage, was
little changed at 89.4 percent in the first quarter from 89.0
percent in the previous three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  