-- Abe Pledges With Singh to Boost Japan-India Defense Cooperation
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-05-29T11:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/abe-pledges-with-singh-to-boost-japan-india-defense-cooperation.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
and Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  pledged to increase
defense cooperation and push for a deal that would allow the
export to  India  of nuclear reactor parts for civilian use.  The two leaders agreed today in  Tokyo  to conduct a
feasibility study on a high-speed rail link between Mumbai and
Ahmedabad, and welcomed the signing of a 71 billion yen ($699
million) loan for the Mumbai metro line. Abe also pledged 30
billion yen for promoting Indian technology and investment.  Singh “expressed his appreciation to the government and
people of  Japan  for their continued and unwavering support to
India’s development,” according to a joint statement. Abe
pledged to maintain development aid “at a substantial level.”  Promoting the export of nuclear power and rail technology
is part of Abe’s drive to triple infrastructure exports to about
30 trillion yen by 2020 to boost economic growth. He is also
boosting regional security ties in the face of  China ’s growing
assertiveness to islands administered by Japan.  India and Japan’s navies held their first joint exercise in
June 2012, and Abe and Singh “decided to conduct such exercises
on a regular basis with increased frequency,” according to the
statement. The two nations will discuss ways to cooperate on
using Japan’s US-2 amphibious aircraft designed for air-sea
rescue operations.  “We attach particular importance to intensifying political
dialogue, strategic consultations and progressively
strengthening defense relations including through naval
exercises and collaboration on defense technology,” Singh said
at the release of the statement.  Fukushima  Abe is marketing Japan’s atomic energy expertise even as
the government mulls restarting nuclear plants shut after the
2011 Fukushima disaster.  Japan and India forged an economic agreement in 2011
abolishing tariffs on 94 percent of trade over 10 years.
Bilateral trade was about $17.6 billion in 2012, little changed
from the previous year, according to the Japan External Trade
Organization.  Singh’s visit was initially scheduled for last year, but
was postponed after then-Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  called a
snap election for December. The Indian leader leaves Japan for
Bangkok tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  