-- Maersk’s 8.4 Billion Bananas Add to Ship Profits: Freight
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-05-30T12:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/maersk-s-8-4-billion-bananas-add-to-ship-profits-freight.html
(Corrects 12th paragraph to say  Philippines  sends 1,000
boxes.)  The secret to making money in
shipping containers can be found in 8.4 billion bananas.  That’s how much of the fruit  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , the
world’s biggest container line, moved last year. The company’s
reliance on refrigerated boxes helped keep it  profitable  as the
industry posted a second straight year of losses.  Moving perishable food in refrigerated containers is
expected to grow an average of 4.5 percent a year until 2016,
according to  Drewry Maritime Equity Research , twice the pace
forecast for ordinary boxes this year. Maersk and its rivals are
seeking to move more goods in cooled containers -- whose freight
rates are 3.5 times higher -- to offset losses from other goods.  “Transport of refrigerated goods is one bright spot for
shipping lines,” said Jay Ryu, an analyst at Daewoo Securities
Co. in  Seoul . “Moving things like meat and wine will generate
more earnings than wastepaper and hay.”  New cooling methods manufactured by  United Technologies
Corp. (UTX)  have helped Maersk to work with farmers in the Philippines
and apple growers in  New Zealand  to transport fruits farther.
Shipping lines are hauling $6 billion of computers and
perishable goods in refrigerated boxes daily.  Furniture and construction material are the top two items
by volume that the container line industry moves. Bananas are
the biggest cargo moved by refrigerated containers, also known
as reefers. Then comes frozen chicken, citrus, fish and dairy
products. Some mobile phones and displays are also shipped in
air conditioned boxes, according to United Technologies.  Global Population  The world’s 30 biggest container-shipping companies had a
combined loss of $6 billion in 2011, and narrowed it to $239
million last year, according to market researcher Alphaliner.  Transport using refrigerated containers is expected to
increase to 212 million tons in 2016 from 172 million tons in
2011 because global population is forecast to increase to 7.45
billion by then, according to shipping consultant Drewry.  “This forecast will have a direct effect on worldwide
perishable reefer demand, particularly in the high-volume import
regions such as Western  Europe ,  North America  and  Asia ,” said
Rahul Kapoor, a  Singapore  based analyst at Drewry. Moving goods
in cooled boxes gives companies more margins, he said.  In mid-March, it cost $1,700 to move a non-refrigerated
forty-foot box to north Europe from Santos,  Brazil , according to
Drewry. In comparison, rates for frozen meat in a cooled
container on the same route were about $5,000, and as much as
$6,000 to  Russia .  Philippine Bananas  Maersk has invested $1.9 billion in the reefer business
since 2008, according to the company’s  website . Maersk delivered
11.6 million tons of refrigerated cargo last year, using its
230,000 reefers -- each capable of carrying 25 tons of chicken.  Every week, at least 1,000 boxes filled with bananas are
moved from the Philippines, said Thomas Knudsen, chief executive
officer of  Maersk Line ’s Asia-Pacific operations.  Shares of Maersk fell 0.3 percent to 42,000 kroner as of
1:54 p.m. in Copenhagen. The stock gained 12 percent last year.
Thirteen of the 31 analyst ratings on the company recommend
 investors buy  the stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In comparison, shares of Singapore-based  Neptune Orient
Lines Ltd. (NOL)  -- unprofitable in each of the past  two years  -- rose
1.8 percent last year. Nine of 26 analyst ratings on the company
recommend investors sell the stock.  Greenhouse Gas  With Maersk,  CMA CGM SA , Hapag-Lloyd AG, NOL and other
shipping lines all embracing this trade, demand for boxes and
new technology is also rising.  UTC Climate, Controls & Systems , a unit of Hartford,
Connecticut-based  United Technologies , has developed a new
container-cooling system that uses greenhouse gas to keep fruit
and meat from getting spoilt.  That will replace industrially produced hydrofluorocarbons,
one of the biggest causes of global warming, John Mandyck, the
company’s chief sustainability officer, said in an interview in
Singapore May 14. UTC -- the world’s biggest maker of reefers --
expects to start selling the new product called  NaturaLine  in
the second half of this year.  Maersk also uses a technology that helps slow the aging
process of the fruit, Knudsen said.  “In developing economies, about 50 percent of all
vegetables and so on are lost during transportation because it’s
poorly stored,” Knudsen said.  Maersk is now working in Papua New Guinea to haul tuna.  “With a world that has a growing population, and our land
not growing, it’s important that we become more productive in
how we manage our  food supply ,” said UTC’s Mandyck.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  