-- Thai Baht Weakens to Four-Month Low as Interest-Rate Cut Seen
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-05-29T02:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/thai-baht-weakens-to-four-month-low-as-interest-rate-cut-seen.html
Thailand’s baht dropped to a four-month low before a review today at which the central bank is
forecast to cut borrowing costs for the first time since October.  The Bank of Thailand will lower its one-day bond repurchase
rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 2.5 percent,
according to 15 of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. One
predicts a half-point cut and eight see no change. The Dollar
Index, which tracks the greenback against six major counterparts,
rose for a second day after a report yesterday showed U.S.
 consumer confidence  is at a five-year high.  “The rate cut will put some more downward pressure in the
short term on the baht,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a researcher at
the Japan Center for Economic Research in  Tokyo . “There’s
general dollar strength supported by the good U.S. data.”  The baht fell 0.5 percent to 30.15 per dollar as of 8:45
a.m. in Bangkok and touched 30.16 earlier, the weakest level
since Jan. 15, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency was poised for a second monthly decline, falling 2.7
percent in May.  There is a risk the baht could fall to 30.5 per dollar if
the central bank cuts by more than 25 basis points, according to
 Paul Mackel , HSBC Holdings Plc’s Hong Kong-based head of Asian
currency research. A bigger rate reduction would be taken as
“quite an aggressive sign” that the monetary authority is
still concerned about inflow pressures and the strength of the
currency, he said yesterday.  Bonds Drop  The baht has advanced 1.4 percent this year, the second-best performance among the 11 most-traded Asian currencies after
 China ’s  yuan . It reached 28.56 on April 22 and April 19, the
strongest level since July 1997. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price
options, fell nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to
6.66 percent.  The central bank will intervene in the foreign-exchange
market should the baht move “excessively,” while any measures
to curb fund inflows would be used as “a last resort,” Bank of
 Thailand  Deputy Governor Pongpen Ruengvirayudh said yesterday.
Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said yesterday that
proposed measures to deal with increased capital inflows will be
published in the Royal Gazette in the next two days.  The yield on the 3.625 percent government bonds due June
2023 rose three basis points to 3.45 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  