-- Airbus Accused of Gutless Models Hits Back at Boeing 787 Parts
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-05-29T15:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/airbus-accused-of-gutless-models-hits-back-at-boeing-787-parts.html
Airbus SAS, a week after being
accused by  Boeing Co. (BA)  of lacking the guts to develop an all-new
airplane, hit back by ridiculing as inferior its arch-rival’s
choice of parts on the first 787 Dreamliner shown to the world.  “The aircraft we rolled out a couple of weeks ago didn’t
have rivets from Wal-Mart, like the ones our competitors had at
the time off their roll-out,”  Tom Enders , the chief executive
officer of Airbus parent European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co., told investors at the annual shareholders meeting today.
“It’s a real aircraft.”  Boeing and Airbus, which share a duopoly in the market for
large commercial jets, have been known to trade the occasional
jibe about their products and strategy, accusing each other of
making misleading claims about their planes’ performance. Airbus
had struck a more supportive note during the three-month
grounding of the Dreamliner, only to resume a more aggressive
stance as the A350’s maiden flight approaches in coming weeks.  Enders’s comment was directed specifically at the plane
that Boeing presented publicly on July 8, 2007, timed to
coincide with the plane’s name -- 787. The first 787 to actually
fly didn’t come until 1 1/2 years later. Paul Lewis, a spokesman
for Boeing, said his company had no comment on Enders’s remarks,
made at a gathering in Amsterdam today.  Humble Gathering  Airbus doesn’t “have an airframe that can compete” with
the 777X, the upgraded version of Boeing’s biggest twin-engine
plane, Boeing CEO Jim McNerney said at an investor conference on
May 22. “They don’t have the appetite to do a ground-up
airplane, and they’d have to do a ground-up airplane.’  The A350 is Airbus’s response to the 787 Dreamliner and the
popular 777, and the first painted aircraft emerged from a
hangar this month, indicating the maiden flight is nearing.
Fabrice Bregier, the Airbus head who succeeded Enders, kept the
roll-out to a low-key event reserved only for employees, with
outside spectators catching only a remote glimpse from a fence.  The humble ceremony compared with Boeing’s jubilant
unveiling of the 787 Dreamliner in 2007, an event hosted by
former television news anchor Tom Brokaw before 15,000 people
and broadcast live by satellite. The Chicago-based manufacturer
had then planned on making the plane available for commercial
use within eight months, only to see the program get derailed by
years of delays as it grappled with suppliers and materials.  While Airbus has continuously cautioned that the A350
program remains challenging, the company hasn’t disclosed a
delay within a year. Enders and Bregier have said they want to
make sure the plane is mature at every step of its development
before moving to the next stage, a lesson they say they learned
from Boeing and Airbus’s own delays on the A380 super jumbo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  