-- Malaysian Air Posts Wider Quarterly Loss as Fares Decline
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-05-29T11:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/malaysian-air-posts-wider-first-quarter-loss-as-fares-decline.html
Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS) , the
nation’s largest long-haul carrier, posted a wider first-quarter
loss after passenger fares declined and costs increased.  The carrier had a  net loss  of 278.8 million ringgit ($90
million) in the three months ended March 31, compared with 171.8
million ringgit a year earlier, it said in a statement today.
Revenue rose 14 percent to 3.55 billion ringgit.  Finance costs more than doubled to 99.3 million ringgit
while passenger yields, the average price a traveler pays to fly
one kilometer, declined 5 percent.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  also
posted a wider operating loss in the period as carriers in  Asia 
face rising competition from Emirates and other Middle East
airlines expanding in the region.  Malaysian Air was unchanged at 40.5 sen at close of Kuala
Lumpur trading before the announcement. The stock has gained 21
percent this year, compared with a 5.6 percent increase for the
benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index.  The carrier also had a foreign currency loss of 21 million
ringgit in the quarter, compared with a gain of 199.6 million
ringgit a year earlier, Malaysian Air said in the statement.  Passenger numbers rose 17 percent in the quarter, while
capacity increased 11 percent, the Subang Jaya, Malaysia-based
carrier said. Malaysian Air’s seat factor was 76.6 percent in
the period. Average  jet fuel  price was 135 ringgit per barrel in
the quarter, increasing costs for the airline, it said.  In December, Malaysian Air agreed to buy 36 aircraft from
Avions de Transport Regional as it seeks new planes to cut costs
and lure more passengers. The carrier is adding the planes for
its Firefly and MASwings units that operate short-haul flights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  