-- Pinnacle’s $2.8 Billion Ameristar Bid Challenged by FTC
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-05-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/ameristar-pinnacle-deal-challenged-by-ftc-over-antitrust.html
Pinnacle Entertainment Inc. (PNK) ’s $2.8
billion purchase of  Ameristar Casinos Inc. (ASCA)  was challenged by the
U.S. Federal Trade Commission over claims the deal would lead to
lower payouts for gamblers in Missouri and  Louisiana .  The FTC said yesterday that it voted unanimously to issue
an administrative complaint and seek a temporary restraining
order and preliminary injunction from a federal judge to prevent
the transaction from closing. Pinnacle and Ameristar are both
Las Vegas-based companies that run casinos throughout the U.S.  “The transaction increases Pinnacle’s ability and
incentive to raise prices post-acquisition to the detriment of
customers in the form of less favorable hold rates, rake rates,
table game rules and odds, and lower player reinvestments,” the
FTC said in a statement on its website. Hold rates determine the
theoretical loss at a slot machine. Rake rates are the charges
for table games such as poker.  Pinnacle plunged 8.2 percent to $18.92 yesterday in  New
York   trading , while Ameristar fell 1.9 percent to $25.91,
recovering from an earlier 12 percent drop. Ameristar  jumped  20
percent to $26.50 on Dec. 21, the day the merger was announced.  The FTC said that in St. Louis, Pinnacle’s acquisition of
Ameristar would cut the number of casino service providers to
three from four. In  Lake Charles , Louisiana, an Ameristar casino
going up adjacent to an existing Pinnacle one will be Pinnacle’s
“closest and most significant” competitor in the market, the
agency said.  Entry Barriers  The FTC also said there are significant barriers to entry
for a new casino in the markets under review because of the
limited number of licenses available in each state and state
laws and regulations limiting the expansion of existing gambling
facilities.  “We are disappointed by the FTC’s decision to issue an
administrative complaint regarding our proposed acquisition of
Ameristar Casinos,” Anthony Sanfilippo, chief executive officer
of Pinnacle, said in a statement. He said the merger wouldn’t
hurt competition in any of the markets where the combined
company would operate.  “We are committed to completing the transaction as
expeditiously as possible and in the time frame agreed upon with
Ameristar,” said Sanfilippo, without saying whether the parties
would be willing to enter into settlement negotiations with the
FTC or make any divestitures.  Viewed Favorably  The $2.8 billion merger, announced in December, was viewed
favorably by analysts who saw it as a way for Pinnacle to
increase its scale by purchasing a similarly sized company with
high-quality assets at an attractive price.  Casino revenue in the $37 billion industry has yet to
recover from the 2008 recession, according to data from the
American Gaming Association, a trade group. Operators compete
fiercely for new licenses, such as those being awarded in
Massachusetts and  Pennsylvania .  Savings from the merger were expected to total $40 million
annually, according to Yinan Zhao, a Susquehanna Financial Group
analyst in New York. Concentration in  St. Louis  was identified
as potential snag by analysts including Zhao, who said in a
December report that the merger could give the combined company
a 58 percent share of that market.  Ameristar, which owns eight casinos in six states, dates
back to two properties that moved to Jackpot,  Nevada , in 1954,
according to a company history. Ameristar still owns Cactus
Petes Resort Casino and the Horseshu Hotel & Casino near the
Idaho border.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  