-- America’s Sick Youth Sports Culture
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2013-05-29T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/america-s-sick-youth-sports-culture.html
A 17-year-old soccer player in  Utah 
was recently  charged with homicide  for fatally punching a
referee who had just given him a yellow card. Maybe you remember
the story. Or maybe you’ve already conflated it with the
countless others like it -- tales of kids, coaches and
especially parents acting like utter idiots at youth sporting
events, occasionally with tragic consequences.  It has gotten to the point where 21 states have laws
addressing  assaults on officials . America’s youth sports culture
is sick. But the conventional diagnosis of the illness has it
backward: The problem isn’t that we take youth sports too
seriously. It’s that we don’t take them seriously enough. As a
result, we’re producing bad citizens and bad athletes.  The U.S. is obsessed with youth sports, but Americans don’t
quite know what to do with that obsession. It’s the trickle-down
effect of the myth of amateurism. If collegiate sport is
supposed to embody some Platonic ideal of competition for its
own sake, youth sports are supposed to represent something more
innocent still: a world where nobody’s keeping score.  There’s virtue in this. At the same time, it’s only natural
for kids -- and yes, their parents -- to want to get something
else out of sports (and for the country to get some world-class
professional athletes in the bargain). The refusal to
acknowledge this has produced a haphazard approach to
competitive youth athletics and its out-of-control culture. Kids
haven’t been taught to respect the games they’re playing.
Parents haven’t been told to shut up and let the coaches do
their job.  My Son  It doesn’t have to be this way. My 8-year-old son spends
nine hours a week at soccer practice. That doesn’t mean I’m
using him to act out my own unfulfilled dreams of athletic
success. I am not a Tiger Dad, pushing my son toward a college
scholarship, never mind a multimillion-dollar professional
contract. Nor do I worry that he’s somehow missing out on his
childhood because he’s learning to use his weak foot instead of
hanging out with friends after school.  As I see it, he’s getting a second education on the soccer
field -- one that emphasizes discipline, perseverance,
conditioning (not just fitness, but also balance and
flexibility), technical mastery and the ability to cope with
disappointment. I’m sure he could be learning equally valuable
lessons playing chess or the violin. He just happens to love
soccer.  And he happens to have professional coaches who know what
they’re doing, having fashioned their program after  Europe ’s
soccer academies. They are serious and demanding, but the kids
are still having fun. There is pleasure in playing the game
right, in learning to look for a pass or move into open space.
There are good arguments against specialization in youth sports
-- especially if cultivating talent is a secondary concern --
yet there is also something to be said for doing “one thing
supremely well,” as Roger Bannister put it.  The growing international diversity of professional
basketball and baseball is worthy of celebration. But it also
speaks to the U.S. failure to better train its young athletes.
There is no culture of serious teaching in youth basketball. In
fact, there is the opposite in the Amateur Athletic Union, which
is all about making reputations rather than players.  America’s inability to get any traction in the world of
international soccer is instructive, too. It’s shocking that a
country with the population and resources of the U.S. has
produced just a handful of players capable of competing at the
highest level of the game.  Like basketball, soccer requires both sound fundamental
skills and creativity. For all of the millions of American kids
playing organized soccer every year, the U.S. is still failing
on both fronts. There’s no schoolyard soccer culture to speak
of, and too few soccer clubs that teach the game the right way.
(The U.S. men’s national team is trying to expand its own
academy program, though progress has been slow.)  Our Culture  Organized youth sports don’t have to mean crazy kids,
coaches and parents, any more than the phrase “youth sports
academy” has to conjure images of Nick Bollettieri-style
sweatshops (“‘Lord of the Flies’ with forehands,” as  Andre Agassi , who was sent there against his will,  memorably described 
Bollettieri’s tennis academy).  John McEnroe , of all people, has built a kinder, gentler
alternative to Bollettieri’s academy on Randall’s Island in  New
York  City. It’s too early to judge its success. If nothing else,
McEnroe has created some competition to produce the next
generation of U.S. tennis stars.  Other countries successfully train serious youth soccer
players without having the whole enterprise degenerate into
bullying, assault or homicide. Just look at the youth academies
run by  FC Barcelona  or  AC Milan . These programs are not designed
for everyone; only the top players are invited. The clubs don’t
have to compete with other sports for the attention of their
country’s most promising athletes.  Yet there’s a lot Americans can learn from this pre-professional approach to kids and sports. Among other things, it
recognizes that fostering emotional maturity is a critical part
of the development of young athletes. Kids in Ajax’s youth
academy in the Netherlands, for example,  don’t even start 
playing other clubs until they’ve spent years at the academy. By
then they are ready to win and also to lose. Which is a lot more
than we can say about many of the athletes in America’s youth
leagues.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
He is the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the
Bronx Is Burning” and “Death Comes to Happy Valley.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or  @jonathanmahler  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 