-- Amgen to Join Astellas on Developing Cancer, Bone Drugs
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e ,   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-05-29T20:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/amgen-astellas-to-develop-cancer-bone-drugs-in-japan.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s largest
biotechnology company by sales, announced a partnership with
Japanese drugmaker  Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503)  to bring five of its
experimental therapies to market in that country.  The companies will create a venture called Amgen Astellas
BioPharma KK that will become an Amgen subsidiary as early as
2020, they said today in a statement. The venture will seek
regulatory approval in Japan for drugs to treat high
cholesterol, osteoporosis, stomach cancer, leukemia and
lymphoma.  Amgen is developing new products and expanding its business
outside the U.S. as sales decline for its anemia drugs Aranesp
and Epogen. While most large U.S. drugmakers generate about half
their  revenue  oversees, Amgen, based in  Thousand Oaks ,
 California , got just 22 percent in 2012. Chief Executive Officer
Robert Bradway is looking to change that balance with expansion
plans in 75 markets including Japan,  China  and  Brazil .  “This is consistent with our desire to globalize and this
is a very, very important step for us in that progression,”
said Bradway, who took the company helm last year, in a phone
interview. “This is a clear, tangible step in the direction of
Amgen having its own presence in the world’s second-largest
pharmaceutical market.”  Unmet Needs  Yoshihiko Hatanaka, president and CEO of Tokyo-based
Astellas, said the alliance “will strengthen our pipeline to
address unmet medical needs, as well as enable us to obtain
growth drivers.”  Amgen fell 1.7 percent to $104.39 at the close in  New York .
The company has  advanced  51 percent in the past 12 months.
Astellas  jumped  as much as 3.2 percent to 5,500 yen in  Tokyo  and
closed 1.9 percent higher at 5,430 yen. The stock has surged 76
percent in the past 12 months.  Amgen executives have signaled they were looking for
partners in  Asia . Arvind Sood, the company’s vice president of
 investor relations , said at a March conference headed by
investment firm Cowen & Co. of  Boston  that Amgen saw a
“tremendous amount of unmet medical need in the Asian markets”
for products to treat gastric cancer, in particular.  One reason 33-year-old Amgen hasn’t expanded globally
sooner is because of the complexity of manufacturing and
distributing its biologic-based products, Bradway said. Unlike
most drugmakers, which sell chemically-based pills, Amgen’s
products are manufactured from living organisms, must be stored
in specific conditions, and are injected rather than swallowed.  Amgen’s Footprint  “We were very successful and continue to be successful in
the U.S. and western  Europe , and the partnerships we struck
served us well at that time, but as we’ve grown we have felt and
increasing desire and need to have control of our business in
these markets,” Bradway said. “We have sought to take back
rights from our partners and establish our own footprint for the
benefit of our pipeline molecules and others.”  Among the drugs Amgen and Astellas will co-develop are the
gastric cancer therapies rilotumumab, also known as AMG 102, and
AMG 337, the companies said today.  Two of the other experimental drugs that are part of the
Astellas venture, the heart therapy AMG 145 and the osteoporosis
treatment romosozumab, are among eight late-stage medicines that
Bradway said should begin reaching the U.S. market by 2016.  The fifth drug, blinatumomab or AMG 103, is aimed at
treating acute lymphoblastic leukemia and non-Hodgkins lymphoma.  Paying Royalties  Astellas will pay “a certain amount of royalties” to
Amgen, Hatanaka of Astellas said in the briefing without
elaborating on further financial details of the deal. The
companies will split the costs, Bradway said. Amgen’s goal is to
begin marketing the first drug from their collaboration as early
as 2016.  Amgen sold its Japanese unit in 2008 to Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co., the country’s largest drugmaker, for as much
as $902 million. Amgen’s vice president of global marketing at
the time, Dominique Monnet, said  Japan ’s drug regulations “make
it pretty expensive for a company not established in Japan to be
able to launch and commercialize” new products.  Unlike the Takeda deal, Amgen’s alliance with Astellas is
designed to be a long-term deal that will result in a
freestanding company by 2020.  Bradway said “the timing worked well” to re-enter Japan
through the partnership.  “Japan was an important opportunity for Amgen, one that we
felt that we needed to be represented in, in order to remain the
world’s leading biotech company,” Bradley said in a briefing in
Japan with reporters. “We have known that we would need and
want a direct operating presence here, and timing worked well
now to work together with Astellas.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised Amgen on the venture with
Astellas.  Morrison & Foerster LLP  provided legal advice to
Astellas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  