-- Hammond Seeks ‘Adult’ Talks With Osborne on U.K. Defense
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-05-29T08:47:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/hammond-seeks-adult-talks-with-osborne-on-u-k-defense.html
U.K. Defence Secretary Philip Hammond, who has yet to agree on cuts to his department’s
budget, said he wants an “adult conversation” with Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne , highlighting tensions in
government over spending.  Osborne said yesterday he reached agreement with seven
ministries to reduce expenditure by as much as 10 percent for
the 2015-2016 fiscal year, taking him 20 percent of the way
toward his target of cutting spending by 11.5 billion pounds
($17 billion) for the period, which goes beyond the next general
election. He has not reached a settlement with the Ministry of
Defence.  Hammond has repeatedly said that while he’s prepared to
make efficiency savings, significant cuts to the  defense budget 
would affect military capability. He denied today that he’s
being obstructive, saying there is a cross-government review
examining efficiency in his ministry.  “I’m not a hold-out,” Hammond told the  BBC ’s “Today”
radio program. The review “will conclude over the next couple
of weeks and then I expect to sit down with the chancellor and
the chief secretary and have an adult conversation about how we
go forward on the basis of that independently chaired review of
what we can do.”  Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander is the
Liberal Democrat minister conducting the review of  government
spending . His party is opposed to further reductions in the
welfare budget, which some Tories including Hammond have said
should be cut before savings are found elsewhere.  “If we need to go beyond what are efficiency savings, then
of course we would have a discussion across government about how
and where we would take out additional capability,” Hammond
said.  The chancellor is scheduled to announce his 2015-16
spending plans in Parliament in  London  on June 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  