-- Amtrak Risks Hundreds of Millions in Equipment, IG Says
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-05-29T20:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/amtrak-risks-hundreds-of-millions-in-equipment-ig-says.html
Amtrak, the U.S. intercity passenger
railroad, may waste hundreds of millions of dollars buying
equipment it doesn’t need and require more taxpayer operating
subsidies as a result, a watchdog said.  The railroad, based in Washington, doesn’t have a
“disciplined process” to figure out what locomotives and
passenger cars it needs, its inspector general said in a  report 
released yesterday. Inspector General Ted Alves pointed to a
$563 million deal, backed by a U.S. loan, to buy 70  Siemens AG (SIE) 
electric locomotives when 56 are needed at peak demand on a
normal day.  “Pursuing acquisitions before adequately analyzing needs
could result in spending hundreds of millions of dollars more
than necessary on future equipment,” the report said. It also
criticized the railroad for not evaluating what it would cost to
refurbish existing equipment.  The report was released as Amtrak is testing the first of
those Siemens locomotives to roll off the assembly line, and as
the railroad plans later this year to seek proposals to replace
its Acela trainsets that serve the Northeastern U.S.  Those and other equipment purchasing plans “could
exacerbate its operating deficit and negatively affect
operations, particularly if the acquisitions are not properly
integrated into overall financial planning,” the report said.
“If  Amtrak  does not improve its fleet planning process, it
risks spending hundreds of millions of dollars more than
necessary, and potentially needing additional operating
subsidies.”  Amtrak, in a response included with the report, said it
agrees with the “theme” of the conclusions while disagreeing
with some examples. Chief Executive Officer Joseph Boardman
pointed to its work with California to buy new Acela equipment
as an example of a way to save money, by working with a partner
on train purchasing.  “We agree with the inspector general that the changes we
are undertaking will provide improved analysis for decision-making and support our goal of running Amtrak more like a
business,” Amtrak spokesman Steve Kulm said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  