-- Amway’s Executives Freed After Arrest in South Indian State
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-05-29T09:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/amway-s-executives-freed-after-arrest-in-south-indian-state.html
Amway Corp., the direct seller of
vitamins, air purifiers and cosmetics, said its Indian unit’s
chief executive officer and two other executives were released
on bail yesterday after being arrested a day earlier.  The three were arrested on suspicion of violating the
country’s law that protects investors from fraudulent investment
offerings and ponzi schemes, said A.V. George, police chief for
Wayanad district in the southern Kerala state. The company
didn’t do anything wrong, Amway spokesman Sudeep Sengupta said
in a phone interview. He said the  India  unit’s CEO William Scott
Pinckney, Chief Financial Officer  Anshu Budhraja  and Sanjay
Malhotra, a corporate director, were freed yesterday.  Amway’s  Indian network of 1.5 million direct-selling agents
had combined sales of about 22.8 billion rupees ($408 million)
last year, according to the company. The allegations are “not a
minor offense” and investigations have been going on for a
while, George said by telephone.  “This was not a sudden thing,” he said.  There have been at least three incidents where officials
from direct sales companies have been arrested in Kerala state
in the past eight months, said Chavi Hemanth, secretary general
of the  Indian Direct Selling Association . The arrests highlight
the need for the central government to enact laws tailored to
direct-selling organizations, to prevent companies from being
compared with fraudulent investment schemes, said Hemanth.  The latest Amway arrests are “unwarranted since there is
no criminality involved and this case should have been handled
as a consumer redressal” issue, the Federation of Indian
Chambers of Commerce and Industry, said in a e-mailed statement.
The incident may have an “adverse impact on Indo-U.S. business
relationships.”  Closely held Amway is seeking to grow its business in
 emerging markets  including India, as sales in  China , it’s
biggest market are likely to grow less than 10 percent this
year, President Douglas DeVos said in March. The Ada, Michigan-based company plans to open a manufacturing plant in southern
Tamil Nadu state, Sengupta said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  