-- Anadolu Hayat Falls Most in 10 Months on Draft: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-05-29T15:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/anadolu-hayat-falls-most-in-10-months-on-draft-istanbul-mover.html
Anadolu Hayat Emeklilik AS (ANHYT) , the
Turkish insurer owned by the country’s biggest bank, declined
the most in almost 10 months after the government proposed
removing a requirement for borrowers to have insurance.  The  shares  of Anadolu Hayat fell 4.2 percent to 5.98 liras
at the close in Istanbul, the biggest drop since Aug. 14. More
than 660,000 shares traded, or 1.7 times the three-month daily
average. The  Borsa Istanbul National 100 (XU100)  index slumped 3.1
percent, falling for a fifth day.  Bank customers will no longer be required to have  life
insurance  to obtain consumer loans and mortgages, according to a
draft of the plan received by e-mail from the Customs & Trade
Ministry yesterday. Those who want coverage will be able to
choose their insurer, the ministry said in the statement.  “This is a key source of revenue for Anadolu Hayat,”
Kutlug Doganay, an analyst at Is Investment in Istanbul, said by
phone today. “If the draft becomes law, the company’s earnings
would be negatively affected. Investors seem to have started to
price in the prospect - the decline may continue.”  The ministry submitted the plan to the Cabinet, Customs &
Trade Minister Hayati Yazici said yesterday, state-run Anatolia
news service reported today. Under government procedures, draft
laws need Cabinet and parliamentary approval before they may
become law.  Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISCTR)  AS, which owns 62 percent of Anadolu
Hayat and  Turkey ’s biggest lender by assets, slid 3.3 percent.
The stock has dropped 6.1 percent this week after Turkey capped
the interest rate lenders can charge on overdrafts this week,
fueling speculation lenders will face more regulatory measures
that risk eroding profits.  Anadolu Hayat reported first quarter net income of 23.8
million liras ($13 million), up 11 percent from 21.5 million
liras in the same period a year earlier. Two analysts recommend
investors buy the shares, while three, including Doganay, say
hold and two advise selling the stock, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  