-- Martinez Set to Target Wigan Players for Everton: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-05-29T09:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/martinez-set-to-target-wigan-players-for-everton-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Martinez Plans  Roberto Martinez  will try to bring some players from Wigan
to Everton when he makes his expected switch to the Merseyside
club, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Antolin Alcaraz, Arouna Kone, James McCarthy and Shaun Maloney are among players he’s interested in, the newspaper
added. Callum McManaman, who was once on Everton’s books, is
another possible target. Marouane Fellaini may be sold to raise
funds for Everton.  Hughes for Stoke?  Mark Hughes  is expected to be named as Stoke City manager
as early as today after talks with the club yesterday, the Times
reported.  His appointment to succeed  Tony Pulis  appears to be a
“formality,” the newspaper said.  Former Blackburn and Manchester City manager Hughes was
fired by Queens Park Rangers last November after the team picked
up four points in the first 12 games of the season. QPR went on
to be relegated at the end of the campaign.  England ‘Farce’  England manager  Roy Hodgson ’s preparations for tonight’s
match with the Republic of Ireland “descended into farce”
yesterday over Ashley Cole’s appointment as captain for the game
to honor his recent achievement of winning a 100th cap, the
Daily Mail reported.  Cole won’t fulfill some of the functions traditionally
associated with the captain, such as talking to the media, with
 Frank Lampard  carrying them out instead.  Hodgson backtracked after initially seeming to suggest
Lampard was captain, the Mail added.  Cole has previously clashed with the Football Association
hierarchy and was fined for criticism he expressed on Twitter.  Mourinho Curbed  Jose Mourinho , expected to return to Chelsea as manager,
won’t be able to bring a “substantial retinue” of coaching
staff with him, the Times reported.  Mourinho, now at Real Madrid, will be able to bring two of
his most loyal assistants, fitness coach Rui Faria and
goalkeeping specialist Silvino Louro, but won’t be able to make
wholesale changes to the backroom staff, the newspaper added.
Steve Holland will be kept on as first-team coach, it said.  The compromise agreement was reached after talks between
Mourinho and the Blues, the Times said.  Bruce Targets Given  Hull City manager  Steve Bruce  may sign goalkeeper Shay Given from Aston Villa after the Tigers’ promotion to the
Premier League, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Bruce has made recruiting a top-class goalkeeper his No. 1
priority after signing forward  George Boyd  from Peterborough,
the Mirror added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  