-- Harvard Grads Taking Wall Street Jobs Rises, Survey Finds
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-05-29T17:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/harvard-grads-taking-wall-street-jobs-rises-survey-finds.html
The number of  Harvard College ’s
graduating seniors going to work on  Wall Street  increased to 15
percent this year from 9 percent last year, according to an
 annual survey .  Even with the increase, the figure is still down from
before the global credit crisis when, in 2007, 47 percent of the
graduating class said it was taking jobs in finance, the Harvard
Crimson reported yesterday. The student newspaper’s survey of
780 students -- almost half the graduating class -- took place
May 11 to May 21 and included questions about drinking and drug
use and cheating on exams.  The survey found that 61 percent of seniors have jobs lined
up, while 18 percent are going to graduate school. The rest are
undecided, or plan to travel or pursue fellowships. The most
popular industry is consulting, with 16 percent saying they will
be working in that field. The most lucrative is finance, with 21
percent of respondents saying they will earn more than $110,000
to start.  The uptick in grads bound for Wall Street comes amid signs
that employment in investment banking and securities dealing in
 New York  is the lowest in two decades even as net income at U.S.
banks last year was the second-best on record, according to the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  About 7 percent of seniors said they cheated on an exam or
take-home assignment during their undergraduate years. About a
quarter of respondents said they drink alcohol more than twice a
week, while less than 3 percent said they use marijuana more
than twice a week.  Harvard College is the undergraduate school of  Harvard
University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  