-- Asian Pay TV Slumps to Become Year’s Worst IPO: Singapore Mover
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-05-29T10:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/asian-pay-television-declines-in-trading-debut-singapore-mover.html
Asian Pay Television Trust , owner of
 Taiwan ’s third-largest cable television operator, slumped on its
first day of trading in  Singapore  to become the world’s worst
initial public offering this year on concern marginal earnings
growth will limit its ability to sustain dividends.  The  stock  sank 5.2 percent to close at 92 Singapore cents,
retreating from an intraday high of S$1.005. That makes the IPO
the worst among companies that raised at least $1 billion
worldwide, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
benchmark Straits Time Index dropped 1.1 percent.  The trust, which owns Taiwan Broadband Communications Co.,
sold 1.44 billion shares at 97 Singapore cents each, raising
S$1.39 billion ($1.1 billion) in its initial share sale. The
stock offers a projected yield of 8.5 percent for 2014 based on
the price for its IPO, according to its prospectus. That
compares with the estimated dividend yield of 4.9 percent for
 StarHub Ltd. (STH) , Singapore’s biggest cable TV operator, for the
next 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “People don’t understand where the valuation is coming
from,” said Jason Hughes, Singapore-based head of sales at CMC
Markets. “Investors could be questioning what sort of growth
can be expected going forward.”  Asian Pay Television expects revenue to increase to S$310.8
million this year and to S$323.8 million in 2014, according to
the prospectus. That compares with S$308.7 million in 2012.  Macquarie International Infrastructure Fund sold its stake
in Taiwan Broadband as part of its planned shutdown. The
Singapore-listed fund, which owned 47.5 percent of Taiwan
Broadband, said in April that it was seeking at least 40.8
Singapore cents per share from the sale.  Neuberger Berman  Asian Pay Television’s IPO is the second-biggest offering
in the city-state this year after  Mapletree Greater China
Commercial Trust (MAGIC)  raised $1.4 billion in February, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The shares were offered at a price of as much as S$1 and
sold to investors including  Neuberger Berman  LLC and Quantum
Partners LP, the prospectus shows. Taiwan Broadband, established
in 1999, serves more than 750,000 cable TV households with over
150 channels, according to its  website .  Newspaper publisher  Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. (SPH)  said this
week it plans to raise about S$540 million from an IPO of a real
estate investment trust, with a listing expected in early July.
 Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd. (OUE)  said in March it’s in talks with
banks to set up a REIT in the city-state. In  Hong Kong , Langham
Hospitality Investments, a trust backed by  Great Eagle Holdings
Ltd. (41)  hotels, is scheduled to start trading tomorrow.  “The monetization of assets through REITs or trust
structures may be difficult now because of a change in interest
rate expectations towards higher rates,”  Alan Richardson , a
Hong Kong-based fund manager who helps oversee about $110
billion for Samsung Asset Management Co., said. “That theme
appears to be coming to a close.”  Macquarie Group Ltd. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. were joint
global coordinators for the offering, and DBS Group Holdings
Ltd. and CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. also helped manage the IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  