-- Stocks Drop With Commodities on Fed Concern; Yen Climbs
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-05-29T20:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/asian-stocks-advance-for-second-day-on-u-s-data-aussie-weakens.html
     May 29 (Bloomberg) -- Stocks fell, trimming a 12th
consecutive monthly gain in Europe, amid concern the  Federal
Reserve  will reduce debt purchases as the economy recovers.
Commodities slid as the  International Monetary Fund  cut China’s
growth forecast, while the yen strengthened and dollar weakened.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.7 percent to
1,648.36 at 4 p.m. in New York and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
lost 1.9 percent. Ten-year Treasury yields retreated from the
highest level in more than a year, while German bunds dropped as
bonds worldwide headed for their steepest monthly slide since
2004. The yen gained 1.3 percent to 101.10 per dollar. The S&P
GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials slipped 1.1 percent, the most in
almost a month, as natural gas, copper and oil paced losses.  The U.S. sold $35 billion of five-year notes today after a
two-year auction yesterday drew the fewest bids since February
2011. Yesterday’s was the first offering since Fed Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said last week the central bank could reduce the
pace of its purchases if there is a sustained improvement in
growth. The world’s biggest economy grew at an annualized 2.5
percent pace in the first quarter, unchanged from a preliminary
reading last month, economists said before Commerce Department
data tomorrow.  “We’ll have days when people are focusing on the positive
economic story and days when people are focusing more on the
issue that the Fed has in terms of slowing down their asset
purchases and eventually moving  interest rates ,” Dan Curtin,
the Boston-based global investment specialist at J.P. Morgan
Private Bank, which oversees about $900 billion, said by
telephone.  ‘Remains Appropriate’  Fed Bank of Boston President  Eric Rosengren  said the
central bank should press on with record stimulus to speed
economic growth, reduce 7.5 percent unemployment and boost
inflation running below 2 percent.  “While we have seen some improvement in labor market
conditions, significant accommodation remains appropriate at
this time,” Rosengren said today in remarks prepared for a
speech in Minneapolis. “ Core inflation  remains at the very low
end of recent experience, and the  unemployment rate  is close to
the cyclical peaks of the past two recessions.”  U.S. stocks erased yesterday’s 0.6 percent advance in the
 S&P 500 . The index has risen 3.2 percent so far in May and is
poised for a seventh straight monthly gain, its longest rally
since 2009.  Market Leaders  Nine of the 10 main groups in the S&P 500 declined today,
as utility, telephone and consumer-staples companies dropped at
least 1.5 percent to help lead losses. The three groups pay
dividends equal to at least 2.8 percent of their prices, the
highest among the 10 industries, and have led the S&P 500’s 1.2
percent retreat since its record on May 21 amid concern rising
Treasury yields will compete with their payouts.  Verizon Communications Inc. and Procter & Gamble Co. lost
more than 2.4 percent to pace losses among the biggest U.S.
companies. Lennar Corp. and PulteGroup Inc. fell at least 3.2
percent as investors sold shares of homebuilders.  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  jumped 28 percent, the most in four
years, after Shuanghui International Holdings Ltd. agreed to
acquire the pork processor for $4.72 billion. Shuanghui will pay
$34 a share for Smithfield, a 31 percent premium over
yesterday’s closing share price.  Mortgages, Treasuries  Mortgage applications in the U.S. dropped last week for a
third consecutive time as the highest borrowing costs in a year
triggered a slump in refinancing. The  Mortgage Bankers
Association ’s index fell 8.8 percent in the period ended May 24
from the prior week. The group’s refinancing measure slumped
12.3 percent to the lowest level of the year, while its
purchasing measure climbed 2.6 percent.  The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage jumped to 3.90
percent, the highest level since May 2012, from 3.78 percent in
the prior week. The 0.31 percentage-point surge over the past
three weeks has been the biggest over a similar period since
early February 2011.  The yield on 10-year Treasury notes fell five basis points
to 2.12 percent after reaching 2.23 percent, the highest since
April 5, 2012. The yield rose 16 basis points yesterday as a
report showed U.S.  consumer confidence  in May reached the
strongest in more than five years. Securities in the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Index have fallen 1.3
percent in May, poised for the steepest loss since April 2004.
Treasuries have dropped 1.9 percent this month, the indexes
show.  ‘Reevaluate’  U.S. government securities yesterday suffered their biggest
one-day decline since October 2011. A continuation of the surge
in 10-year note yields risks breaking  U.S. government debt  out
of the low interest rate environment that has held since 2008,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  If “you get above about 2.4 percent, which was the 2012
yield highs, you’d have to completely reevaluate any kind of
‘we’re staying in a low-yield range for a long time’ ”
scenario, Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist in New York at
Credit Suisse, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee . “We are not
quite there yet, we are about 25 basis point away from that kind
of level that I’d be thinking we are going to have a trend
higher in yields somewhat similar to what happened, say early-to-mid 2009.”  Almost 13 shares dropped for every one that gained in the
Stoxx 600 while volume was 7 percent less than the 30-day
average. The decline pared this month’s advance to 2 percent as
the gauge headed for the longest monthly winning streak since
1997.  European Movers  Evraz Plc slid 2.7 percent after Stoxx Ltd. said it will
remove the company from the Stoxx 600 before the start of
trading on June 24. Hennes & Mauritz AB dropped 2.5 percent as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended investors sell the shares.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index snapped a three-day
advance, falling 1.1 percent. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies listed in  Hong Kong  sank 1.6
percent. China’s expansion will be 7.75 percent this year and
next,  David Lipton , first deputy managing director of the IMF,
said in Beijing today. In April, the IMF predicted growth of 8
percent this year and 8.2 percent in 2014.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
forecast global economic growth will accelerate in 2014 with
both the U.S. and Japan continuing to outpace the euro area.  ‘Moving Forward’  “The global economy is moving forward and it is doing so
at multiple speeds,” OECD Chief Economist Pier Carlo Padoan
said today in the Paris-based organization’s semi-annual
Economic Outlook. Differing monetary and fiscal choices across
the major developed economies are driving regional divergence
with “each path carrying its own mix of risks,” he said.  Brazil’s Ibovespa sank 2.2 percent, the most in six weeks,
and Russia’s Micex Index slipped 2.6 percent to a one-month low
as commodities fell. Turkey’s benchmark gauge dropped 3.1
percent, the most since January. The Philippine Stock Exchange
Index jumped 1.6 percent after Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima
said the government will ensure economic growth stays high.  West Texas Intermediate oil slipped 2 percent to $93.13 a
barrel, the lowest settlement since May 1, and copper retreated
0.5 percent in New York. China is the biggest buyer of
industrial metals and energy. The declines trimmed this month’s
gain in the  S&P GSCI (SPGSCI)  to 0.8 percent.  OPEC Production  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest crude exporter, is
content with current conditions in the oil market,  Ali al-Naimi ,
the kingdom’s petroleum minister, said in Vienna yesterday. The
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will keep its
production quota unchanged on May 31, according to two OPEC
delegates who asked not to be identified because the decision
isn’t final.  Germany’s 10-year bond yield rose four basis points to 1.53
percent, the highest level since February. German unemployment
rose more than four times as much as economists estimated in May
as the euro area’s sovereign debt crisis and a long winter took
their toll on Europe’s largest economy. The number of people out
of work climbed a seasonally adjusted 21,000 to 2.96 million, a
fourth straight monthly gain. Economists predicted an increase
of 5,000, according to
the median of 35 estimates in a survey. The adjusted jobless
rate held at 6.9 percent, just above a two-decade low of 6.8
percent.  The cost of insuring European corporate bonds rose for the
first time in three days, with the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of
credit-default swaps linked to 125 investment-grade companies
increasing 5 basis points to 99.6 basis points.  The yen appreciated 0.6 percent to 130.82 per euro.
Europe’s 17-nation shared currency rose 0.6 percent to $1.2937.
The Swiss franc gained against all 16 of its major peers,
advancing 0.9 percent versus the euro.  The krona strengthened against 14 of 16 major peers after
data showed the Swedish economy expanded at a faster pace than
economists predicted in the first quarter. Sweden’s currency
appreciated as much as 0.7 percent against the euro to 8.5832.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  