-- Aussie Weakness Needed to Restore Competitiveness, Garnaut Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-05-29T03:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/aussie-weakness-needed-to-restore-competitiveness-garnaut-says.html
The Australian dollar needs to weaken
“by a large amount” to restore competitiveness eroded by two
decades of prosperity, according to  Ross Garnaut , who advised
former Prime Minister Bob Hawke during the 1980s overhaul of the
nation’s economy.  “You cannot fatten the pig on market day,” Garnaut said
in the Victoria University 2013 Vice-Chancellor’s Lecture
delivered in Melbourne late yesterday. “The sooner we start the
restoration of competitiveness with depreciation of the real
exchange rate, the sooner we can enjoy the benefits in the
marketplace.”  Garnaut, ambassador to China from 1985-1988, said the
Australian dollar, which has declined 7.8 percent this month,
needs to depreciate “many times further.” China’s resource
demand has passed its peak and “will soon end,” he said.  The local dollar dropped to a 1 1/2-year low today as
Pacific Investment Management Co. said economic growth in  China ,
Australia’s biggest trading partner, will moderate toward 7
percent and that the Reserve Bank of Australia’s record-low cash
rate isn’t “meaningfully easy” because of the currency’s
sustained strength. Governor Glenn Stevens and his board have
slashed the  benchmark rate  by 2 percentage points in the past 19
months to 2.75 percent to spur industries such as construction.  Traders are pricing in a greater than 50 percent chance the
RBA will lower rates to a fresh record of 2.5 percent in August,
according to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg. The Aussie dollar
fell to 95.47 U.S. cents today, the lowest since Oct. 5, 2011.  Currency Rethink  Garnaut said in his speech yesterday that “a big fall” in
the exchange rate would happen as global markets recognize the
weakness in  Australia ’s position with the approaching end of the
China resource boom.  “It started to happen early this month, with the Reserve
Bank’s reduction of interest rates and change of rhetoric on the
strong dollar, and the government’s shaking free of an earlier
embrace of the strength of the national currency,” he said.
“The recent fall in the foreign exchange value of the
Australian dollar is a start, but has to go many times
further.”  Ford Motor Co. said last week it will stop making cars in
Australia, nine decades after founder Henry Ford first began
building Model Ts in the country, as the currency’s strength
undermines the local industry’s ability to compete with imports.  Australia’s three car makers have struggled as a 25 percent
rise in the local dollar against the yen over the past year
stoked sales of cheaper imported vehicles and cut exports.  Reform Culture  “The increase in the real exchange rate over the past
decade is of historic dimension,” said Garnaut. “The real
effective exchange rate rose by 69 percent from December 2002 to
its peak in March 2013.”  Australia must also change entrenched expectations that
living standards will rise and that taxes will fall, as they
have for a generation, he said. The political culture must
return to the pro-reform era of 1983 to 2000, Garnaut said.  “If we continue within the political culture of the later
years of high prosperity, ‘Business as Usual’, we will live in
greater comfort for a short while,” he said. “But sooner
rather than later we will experience deep economic recession
with high unemployment -- probably unemployment rising with each
new recessionary episode without falling much in the years
between.”  Mining Peak  The China resources boom has “passed its highest point and
will soon end,” he said.  Australia last week said the resources-investment boom may
be at its peak as A$150 billion ($144 billion) of projects have
been scrapped or delayed.  The RBA has “plenty of firepower to combat a slowdown in
the domestic economy,” Pimco’s Adam Bowe and Robert Mead said
in an article titled ‘The New Normal Has Finally Arrived Down
Under.’ “To stimulate some of the domestic growth candidates
like non-mining business investment, household consumption and
housing construction, we believe the RBA will need to provide
meaningfully easy policy rates.”  The Australian dollar’s decline in the past month has made
it the worst performer after South Africa’s rand among the 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as concern mounts about
China’s economic outlook and increased speculation about the
U.S. tapering quantitative easing.  “Australia has so far escaped the clutches of the global
New Normal,” Pimco said. “However, as domestic growth outside
the mining sector remains subdued and Australian policy rates
appear likely to converge towards their global peers, we believe
the New Normal has finally arrived Down Under.”  Pimco coined the term “new normal” in 2009 to describe an
era of lower returns, heightened regulation and shrinking U.S.
clout in the world economy following the 2008 financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  