-- Tax Transparency Would Take a Bite Out of Future Apples
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-29T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/tax-transparency-would-take-a-bite-out-of-future-apples.html
Apple Inc.’s clever tax-avoidance
strategies,  revealed  at last week’s highly publicized U.S.
Senate hearing, probably inspired more than a few copycats. What
company, after all, wouldn’t want to sidestep billions of
dollars in U.S. taxes, as Apple did, by creating stateless Irish
subsidiaries that owe no taxes anywhere?  Before executives file the paperwork, they should consider
this: The hearing also inspired European Union leaders to push
for a new law that would require corporations to reveal the
amount of taxes they paid, country by country. EU officials put
the measure on a legislative fast track in hopes it would become
law this summer.  Such transparency could accomplish two things: First, by
forcing corporations to reveal revenue, head count, profit and
taxes paid per country, the EU would subject companies that pay
less than their fair share to potentially embarrassing public
scrutiny. Starbucks Corp. in December  voluntarily  paid the U.K.
more than it legally owed to quiet a controversy over its low
tax payments.  Second, similar public pressure could dissuade politicians
in low-tax countries, including Ireland, Luxembourg and the
Netherlands, from continuing to offer their countries as  tax
havens , depriving others of needed revenue.  Behavior Modification  If the EU wants companies to pay more tax, it would be far
better simply to amend its tax laws. But behavior modification
through transparency is the next best thing. The tactic makes
such good sense that the U.S., and individual states, should do
the same.  As two left-leaning advocacy groups  reported  in 2011, many
U.S. corporations pay little income tax to the states, on top of
low federal taxes. They showed that 68 out of 265 companies
studied had paid no state income tax in at least one year
between 2008 and 2010, despite reporting collective profits of
$117 billion in that period. Over three years, the 265 companies
avoided about $43 billion in state taxes.  Competition to attract  investment  is a main reason for the
decline in state tax payments. When  California  offers generous
research-and-development credits to attract manufacturers, other
states must match those tax breaks or watch jobs move across the
border. The result is a race to the bottom. And corporations
know all too well how to play one state against another.  Companies shouldn’t be faulted for seeking the best tax
deals they can find, and states are right to try to lure jobs.
But public officials need to do a better job of ensuring that
the breaks they’re offering to corporations are in taxpayers’
interests. The Pew Center on the States said in a  study 
published in April 2012 that half the states hadn’t taken basic
steps to find that out.  Some well-intentioned breaks, such as the film production
tax credits that 44 states now offer, may have gone too far.
 Louisiana  alone issued $180 million in film tax credits in 2011.
In most states, unused credits can be sold to other companies --
even if they aren’t in the film business -- to lower their tax
bills. Bank of America Corp., the Hershey Co. and Comcast Corp.
have benefited from this secondary market.  A watchdog group called  Good Jobs First , which seeks to
hold accountable the government officials who dole out economic-development money, is on the right track. It follows 249,000
awards from 427 programs in 50 states and offers a database that
anyone can search.  Tax Disclosure  Here’s another way to take advantage of transparency’s
positive effects: Require companies to disclose what they
actually pay in federal income taxes. As the Senate  Permanent
Subcommittee  on Investigations  reported  last week, Apple’s 2011
annual report states that its tax liability on $34.2 billion in
revenue came to $8.2 billion, for an effective tax rate of 24.2
percent. That calculation, however, includes U.S., state and
foreign taxes. In fact, Apple paid only $2.5 billion in federal
income taxes, for a 20.1 percent effective rate.  The Securities and Exchange Commission could make tax
transparency a reality by requiring publicly traded companies to
report actual taxes paid to federal, state, local and foreign
governments. Investors should urge the SEC to adopt this change.
Those who believe that lower taxes always equal higher earnings
should consider the long term: Companies will eventually suffer
if states are unable to provide good roads, schools and
essential services. What’s more, state subsidies encourage
companies to lobby for loopholes rather than maximize profits
through innovation and cost-cutting.  Unless states know what economic benefit they are getting
in return, tax privileges can become another form of corporate
welfare. And if the EU, the U.S. and the 50 states won’t stop
handing them out like lollipops, taxpayers at least deserve to
know who’s paying what to whom -- or not.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 