-- Serena Williams Joins Federer in French Open Third Round
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-05-29T22:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/azarenka-advances-to-french-open-second-round-radwanska-wins.html
Former winners  Roger Federer  and
 Serena Williams  rushed past lower-ranked opponents into the
third round of the  French Open .  Federer, the 2009 champion, beat Indian qualifier Somdev
Devvarman 6-2, 6-1, 6-1 in 82 minutes yesterday on Court Suzanne
Lenglen at Roland Garros. It was the second short match in a row
for the second-seeded Swiss, who won his opener in 51 minutes.  Federer said he’s still motivated after winning a men’s
record 17 Grand Slam singles titles. The 31-year-old said he may
get tested in his next round, against No. 30 seed Julien Benneteau. The Frenchman took him to five sets in the third
round of Wimbledon last year.  “I think I’m playing okay,” Federer told reporters after
hitting 54 winners to 14 by his opponent. “Definitely think the
next match is going to be sort of the big test for me to see
exactly where I stand.”  Shortly after on the main Court Philippe Chatrier, the 31-year-old Williams of the U.S. took just over an hour to defeat
French wild-card Caroline Garcia, 6-1, 6-2. Williams, the 2002
champion, has only dropped four games in two matches in Paris.
Yesterday’s victory extended her winning run on clay to 26.  “It’s important to win easily, but I also have to play
well,” said Williams, who addressed the crowd in French for a
second time this week. “If I continue to do that, I’ll win
 Roland Garros .”  Top-seeded Novak Djokovic of Serbia plays Argentina’s Guido
Pella today, when No. 3  Rafael Nadal  of Spain faces Slovakia’s
Martin Klizan. Defending women’s champion  Maria Sharapova  of
Russia meets Canada’s Eugenie Bouchard and former
winner Li Na of China plays Bethanie Mattek-Sands of the U.S.  Azarenka Underway  Earlier yesterday, Australian Open champion  Victoria Azarenka  finally got her tournament under way with a victory.  Azarenka, the No. 3 seed from Belarus, beat Russia’s Elena Vesnina 6-1, 6-4 to open Day 4 play. The first-round match was
one of 14 postponed two days ago because of rain.  “I felt like I’m one of the last ones to start,” Azarenka
said at a press conference. “It was a long wait but I think
performance-wise it was a good match.”  Unseeded Bojana Jovanovski of Serbia upset former world No.
1  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark 7-6, 6-3 in a second-round
match. At No. 10, Wozniacki is the highest-seeded woman to lose
so far.  “I didn’t get to play the game I wanted to,” Wozniacki,
who lost four straight opening-round matches before the
tournament, told reporters. “Didn’t get her to move enough.
Then all of a sudden you’re in trouble.”  Jovanovski will next play former champion  Svetlana Kuznetsova  of Russia, who beat Slovakia’s Magdalena Rybarikova
in three sets yesterday.  No. 4 Seeds  Fourth seeds Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland and  David Ferrer 
of Spain both won in straight sets to reach the third round.
Radwanska beat Mallory Burdette of the U.S. 6-3, 6-2 and Ferrer
defeated fellow Spaniard Albert Montanes 6-2, 6-1, 6-3.  All 15 men’s seeds in action yesterday advanced.  No. 6 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France, No. 10 Marin Cilic of
Croatia and No. 11 Nicolas Almagro of Spain won second-round
matches in straight sets, while No. 8 Janko Tipsarevic of Serbia
was a straight-sets victor in his opening match.  On the women’s side, seventh-seed Petra Kvitova of the
 Czech Republic  and No. 12 Maria Kirilenko of Russia joined
Azarenka in advancing to the second round, while No. 23 Klara Zakopalova and No. 25 Lucie Safarova were beaten.  Last year’s runner-up  Sara Errani , the fifth seed from
Italy, beat Yulia Putintseva of  Kazakhstan  in straight sets to
move to the third round. Other second-round women’s winners
included No. 8 Angelique Kerber of Germany, No. 20 Carla Suarez Navarro of Spain and No. 29 Varvara Lepchenko of the U.S.  Women’s Upsets  In a pair of first-round upsets, Zakopalova of the Czech
Republic lost to unseeded Estonian Kaia Kanepi, while American
Jamie Hampton knocked out Safarova of the Czech Republic.  Stefanie Voegele of Switzerland beat Britain’s Heather
Watson in a three-set first-round match. With U.S. Open champion
 Andy Murray  injured, Watson’s loss leaves no Britons in the
second round at Roland Garros for the first time since 2007.  Among the other men’s second-round winners yesterday were
No. 14 Milos Raonic of Canada and France’s 15th seed  Gilles Simon .  Sam Querrey , the highest seeded American man at No. 18,
beat Jan Hajek of the Czech Republic.  Gael Monfils overcame Latvian Ernests Gulbis to move into
the third round in four sets. Monfils, a Frenchman coming back
from a knee injury, upset No. 5 Tomas Berdych in his opening
match in five sets.  Yannick Noah was the last Frenchman to win Roland Garros,
30 years go.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ; Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros
through the London sports desk at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  