-- Bachmann House Retirement Plan Tea Party Turning Point
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-05-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/bachmann-says-she-won-t-run-for-u-s-house-re-election-in-2014.html
U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann ’s decision to leave Congress marks a changing guard in
the anti-tax  Tea Party  movement as it girds for its next battle
later this year over an increase in the nation’s  debt  ceiling.  Bachmann’s announcement yesterday that she won’t run again
after four terms follows the departure of former South Carolina
Senator  Jim DeMint , a Republican who left last year to head the
Washington-based  Heritage Foundation , which advocates limited
government. The two lawmakers had been regarded as the faces of
the Tea Party’s rebellion in the House and Senate.  Bachmann, a 2012 presidential hopeful, DeMint, and former
Representative  Allen West  of  Florida , who clashed with House
Speaker  John Boehner  and lost his election last year, are being
supplanted by leaders such as freshman Senator Ted Cruz of Texas
as Republicans regroup after losing showdowns with President
 Barack Obama  over taxes and spending.  “You need to look at this as part of a trend instead of a
separate event,” said  Stan Collender , a former Democratic
congressional budget analyst who once briefed the House Tea
Party Caucus on the debt limit at Bachmann’s invitation.  “As the  deficit’s  getting better and the economy is
improving, the influence of the Tea Party and the anger that
drove it is waning,” said Collender.  Congress has been focused on revising U.S. immigration and
gun laws, issues the Tea Party hasn’t championed. Treasury
Secretary Jack Lew has said the effective deadline to raise the
nation’s borrowing limit won’t be until at least September.  Next Test  With that issue posing the next test of how much strength
the movement retains, Ron Bonjean, a former aide to Republican
House Speaker Dennis Hastert, said the Tea Party is waiting in
the wings.  “The challenge right now is there is no central fight for
the Tea Party until Congress starts addressing once again the
debt ceiling,” said Bonjean.  Bachmann, 57, has been out of the national spotlight
following her failed presidential primary run. Instead, she
engaged in confrontations with party leaders as part of a group
of Republicans who tried in vain to prevent a tax increase this
year.  Like DeMint, Bachmann may anticipate she will wield more
power outside of Congress, said Bonjean.  “ Washington  has not heard the last of Bachmann, she’s
going to be around,” said Bonjean.  “My future is full, it is limitless,” the four-term
 Minnesota  congresswoman said yesterday in a  video  posted on her
website announcing she will step down when her term ends.  Ethics Inquiry  Her announcement came amid an ethics inquiry. The Office of
Congressional Ethics is looking into alleged campaign-finance
violations, the Daily Beast  reported  in March. A lawyer for
Bachmann told the  Washington Post  that month that she was
cooperating with the probe and wasn’t presented with any
allegations of personal wrongdoing.  Bachmann dropped out of her party’s presidential primaries
last year after a sixth-place finish in the Iowa caucuses. In
her video, she said eight years was long enough to serve a
congressional district, though she had raised $678,666 for the
2014 campaign in the first three months of 2013.  Among the House’s most prolific fundraisers, Bachmann had
$1.9 million in the bank as of March 31. She had started running
a campaign TV ad in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, spending
$85,000 to tout her work against Obama’s health-care law.  She said her decision to step aside wasn’t related to
ethics inquiries into her presidential campaign and its staff.  ‘Without Baggage’  For Republicans, her retirement “may be a blessing,” said
 Terry Madonna , a political science professor at Franklin &
Marshall College in Lancaster,  Pennsylvania . “You get a fresh
candidate without baggage.”  Bachmann’s district is the most Republican-leaning in
Minnesota. While Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney 
lost the state to Obama by almost 8 percentage points in
November, he carried Bachmann’s congressional district by 15
percentage points.  Still, Bachmann beat Democrat hotel developer Jim Graves in
November by fewer than 5,000 votes of more than 355,000 cast,
the narrowest margin of any congressional race in the state.  Bachmann must “have recognized that it would be an uphill
battle for her going forward,” Graves, who’s running again for
the seat, said in a statement released by his campaign.  Bachmann said electoral concerns weren’t a factor.  “My decision was not in any way influenced by any concerns
about my being re-elected to Congress,” she said.  Carter Supporter  Bachmann began her political life as a Democrat. She met
her husband, Marcus, while they were working on the 1976
Democratic presidential campaign of  Jimmy Carter . She said she
became a Republican after reading the Gore Vidal novel “Burr,”
which she said mocked the nation’s founding fathers.  In the House, she organized the Tea Party Caucus shortly
before the 2010 elections. After Tea Party-fueled gains in that
election helped give Republicans control of the House, Bachmann
tried to join the new House Republican leadership. She withdrew
from consideration for the fourth-ranking spot of conference
chairman after drawing little support.  Bachmann led Tea Party activists pressing for a significant
reduction in federal spending. While that push helped
Republicans win House control in 2010, the movement suffered
setbacks in its relations with leadership and in public opinion.  Negative Views  According to a January NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll,
47 percent of Americans said they have a negative view of the
Tea Party. That compares with 49 percent who view the  Republican
Party  unfavorably and 38 percent who have a negative view of the
 Democratic Party .  Bachmann opposed raising the federal debt limit in 2011 and
said it would take what amounted to inconceivable Democratic
concessions -- including a full repeal of Obama’s 2010 health-care overhaul -- to get her to reconsider.  Three Tea Party-supported House members were removed from
the Budget and Financial Services committees in December after
they opposed Boehner on spending and budget issues.  Bachmann’s absence probably won’t affect the future of the
Tea Party movement, which has developed independently of the
congresswoman since 2010, said Christina Botteri, a founding
member of the National Tea Party Federation, a coalition of
local and regional Tea Party groups.  “The most authentic Tea Party official right now in
Washington is  Ted Cruz ,” who is also emerging as a leading
critic of a bipartisan immigration bill headed for the Senate
floor next month, said Botteri.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  