-- Quattrone Gives $15 Million to Penn to Study Justice
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2013-05-29T14:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/banker-quattrone-gives-15-million-to-penn-law-to-study-justice.html
Frank Quattrone , the investment
banker who spent five years battling security regulators in
court, gave $15 million to the University of Pennsylvania Law
School to study the U.S. criminal justice system.  The Quattrone Center for the Fair Administration of Justice
will fund research and propose solutions to improve the legal
system, the university, based in Philadelphia, said yesterday in
a  statement . The donation came from the Frank and Denise
Quattrone Foundation.  Quattrone, 57, is the founder and chief executive officer
of Qatalyst Partners LLC, a San Francisco-based investment bank
which helped manage Autonomy Corp.’s $10.3 billion sale to
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  in 2011. Quattrone formerly led the
technology groups at Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank AG and Credit
Suisse Group AG and worked on the public offerings of Cisco
Systems Inc., Netscape Communications Corp. and Amazon.com Inc.  Quattrone spent five years, between 2003 and 2008, in legal
battles with securities regulators and the  Justice Department .
His 2004 conviction for hindering an investigation of Credit
Suisse’s initial public offering practices was reversed on
appeal in 2006 and all remaining charges were dismissed in
August 2007.  “Our system of justice may very well be the best in the
world but with each passing day the frequency and sometimes
tragic consequences of its mistakes, as well as the risk of
random unfair outcomes for all Americans, are becoming better
understood,” Quattrone said in the statement.  The University of Pennsylvania, a member of the  Ivy League ,
was founded by  Benjamin Franklin  and opened its doors to
students in 1751.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  