-- Bank of Canada Keeps Its Benchmark Interest Rate at 1% (Text)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-05-29T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/bank-of-canada-keeps-its-benchmark-interest-rate-at-1-text-.html
Following is the text accompanying the
 Bank of Canada ’s decision to leave its benchmark overnight rate
target at 1 percent. The statement was released today in Ottawa.  The Bank of  Canada  today announced that it is maintaining
its target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. The  Bank Rate  is
correspondingly 1 1/4 per cent and the deposit rate is 3/4 per
cent.  Global economic growth has evolved largely as anticipated in
the Bank’s April Monetary Policy Report (MPR).  In the  United
States , the economic expansion is progressing at a modest pace,
with continued strengthening in private demand partly offset by
fiscal consolidation. Japan’s economy is beginning to respond to
significant policy stimulus.  Europe , in contrast, remains in
recession. Growth in China has continued to ease from very strong
rates, weighing somewhat on global commodity prices. The Bank
continues to expect global economic activity to grow modestly in
2013 before strengthening over the following two years.  In Canada, recent economic indicators suggest that growth in
the first quarter was stronger than the Bank projected in April.
For the year as a whole, growth is expected to remain broadly in
line with the Bank’s MPR forecast. Over the projection horizon,
 consumer spending  is expected to grow at a moderate pace,
business investment to grow solidly, and residential investment
to decline further from historically high levels. Growth in total
household credit is slowing and the Bank continues to expect that
the household debt-to-income ratio will stabilize near current
levels. Exports are projected to continue to recover, but to be
restrained by subdued foreign demand and ongoing competitiveness
challenges, including the persistent strength of the Canadian
dollar.  Core inflation  is in line with the April MPR projection,
while total CPI inflation has been slightly weaker. Both total
and core inflation are expected to remain subdued in coming
quarters before gradually rising to 2 per cent by mid-2015 as the
economy returns to full capacity and inflation expectations
remain well-anchored.  Reflecting all of these factors, the Bank has decided to
maintain the target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent.  With
continued slack in the Canadian economy, the muted outlook for
inflation, and the constructive evolution of imbalances in the
household sector, the considerable monetary policy stimulus
currently in place will likely remain appropriate for a period of
time, after which some modest withdrawal will likely be required,
consistent with achieving the 2 per cent inflation target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  