-- Biden Circles Xi as U.S. Duels China for Latin America Ties
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-05-29T16:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/biden-circles-xi-as-u-s-duels-china-for-latin-america-influence.html
The competition between the world’s
two biggest economies for influence in Latin America is on
display this week as U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  visits  Rio de
Janeiro  today near the end of a three-nation tour of the region
with Chinese President Xi Jinping close behind.  The dueling visits -- Biden departs  Brazil  May 31, the same
day Xi arrives in  Trinidad & Tobago  to begin his first tour of
the region since  China ’s political transition ended in March --
underscore how Latin America’s natural resources and rising
middle class are making it an increasingly attractive trade
partner for the world’s top two economies.  Competing with China’s checkbook isn’t easy for the U.S.
Seeking South American soy, copper and iron ore, China boosted
imports from Latin America 20-fold, to $86 billion in 2011 from
$3.9 billion in 2000, according to calculations by the  Inter-American Development Bank . By contrast, the U.S. policy of
pursuing free-trade accords has been controversial, said  Kevin Gallagher , a Boston University economist.  “If I’m a Latin American leader, I’m very happy because I
now have more chips to play with,” said Gallagher, author of
the 2010 book “The Dragon in the Room,” about China’s inroads
in the region. “The onus is on the U.S. to come up with a more
flexible, attractive offer but that’s not so easy because it
doesn’t have the deep pockets like it used to.”  The Latin America visits come as the  International Monetary
Fund   forecasts  the region’s economies will expand 3.4 percent
this year, almost three times the pace of growth in the
developed world.  U.S. Outreach  Biden’s tour, which began May 26 in Colombia, included a
“frank” and at times “brutal” discussion about trade,
economic growth and security with 15 Caribbean leaders in
Trinidad yesterday, Prime Minister Kamla Persad-Bissessar said,
without giving more details. The leaders signed an accord to
boost investment and economic cooperation.  “Our country is deeply invested and wants to be more
deeply invested in the region,” Biden  said  in Port of  Spain .
Yesterday’s accord “will give us all a vehicle to overcome
special, specific, practical barriers to trade and investment.
Our goal is not simply growth, but growth that reaches
everyone.”  In Colombia, Biden said a one-year-old  free-trade agreement 
between the two countries is “just the beginning,” citing a
doubling of the period for which entry visas are valid and
efforts to expand trade ties further.  State Visit  The outreach follows President  Barack Obama ’s visits in May
to  Mexico  and Costa Rica and precedes talks at the White House
in June with the leaders of Chile and Peru. In October, Obama
will host Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  to a state dinner
at the White House.  U.S. business with the region is brisk even in the absence
of a region-wide free-trade agreement that the U.S. pursued for
more than a decade and that anti-U.S. allies of the late
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  helped bury in 2005.  Buoyed by bilateral agreements signed since then with Peru,
Panama and Colombia, U.S. exports to Latin America have more
than doubled since 2000 to a record $400 billion last year. The
region last year bought 26 percent of U.S. exports, an increase
from 22 percent in 2000.  Brazil Surplus  In Rio, Biden will tour a research facility operated by
state-run oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA. U.S. exports of
capital goods are helping Brazil develop the biggest oil
discoveries in the Americas since 1976 and are one reason why
the U.S. in 2009 began posting a  trade surplus  with Brazil, the
region’s biggest economy, for the first time in a decade.  Trade with Brazil could rise to $500 billion from about
$100 billion currently, Biden said today, citing biofuels,
aviation and energy.  “We see greater Brazilian investment in the  United
States ,” Biden said. “We welcome it, we need it. We want you
investing.”  For Xi, his week-long tour of Trinidad, Costa Rica and
Mexico precedes a visit to  California  for his first face-to-face
talks with Obama since taking office.  The trip to  Latin America  and the Caribbean, coming so
early in Xi’s presidency, reflects the rising confidence of the
Chinese leadership as it pursues its strategic interests with
little concern for U.S. reaction, said Evan Ellis, a professor
at the National Defense University in  Washington . China in
recent years has ousted the U.S. to become the top trade partner
for Brazil and Chile.  ‘Washington’s Backyard’  “In the past Chinese presidents were very deferential to
the U.S., always making reference to Washington’s backyard,”
said Ellis, the author of dozens of papers and a book about
China’s penetration of Latin America. “You don’t hear any of
that from Xi’s team, though you don’t find any threatening
rhetoric either.”  Trinidad, the largest supplier of energy in the Caribbean
and the one stop on both delegations’ itineraries, may be the
best example of China’s newfound boldness, said Ellis.  While in  Trinidad and Tobago , Xi will also meet with
leaders from other countries in the region, including the
Bahamas, Jamaica, Suriname and Antigua and Barbuda, Assistant
Foreign Minister Zhang Kunsheng told reporters today in Beijing.  Any loan or investment announced by Xi has the potential to
surpass the $200 million the U.S. spends annually on the entire
region through the  Caribbean Basin Security Initiative .  Highway Loan  Biden yesterday said the U.S. will seek to increase
assistance through the security initiative, without giving more
details.  “If the Chinese decide to unroll one of their little
packages in Trinidad, they’ll win the entire Caribbean over,”
said Gallagher.  Xi will bring a $400 million loan to help expand and
modernize a highway in Costa Rica, newspaper La Nacion reported
today, citing an interview with the country’s ambassador to
China.  As China asserts itself more, the region’s leaders have
also grown more wary.  The decade-long export surge has concentrated on a few raw
materials, making South America more vulnerable to a slowdown in
China. Driven by Chinese demand, stronger dollar inflows used to
buy exports have also fueled the region’s currencies, making
imports cheaper and hurting local manufacturers.  Currency Gains  Rousseff in 2011 increased by 30 percentage points a tax on
foreign cars after automakers complained about threats from
competitors including Wuhu-based Chery Automobile Co. Colombia’s
peso, Brazil’s real and Chile’s peso were three of the top four
best performers over the past decade among 31 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, each surging more than 40 percent.  In Mexico, Xi visits a nation that competes directly with
China for sales to the U.S. market. China more than doubled its
market share in the U.S. since joining the  World Trade
Organization  in 2001, accounting for 19 percent of goods sold
last year, up from 8 percent in 2000, according to the U.S.
Commerce Department. That compares with Mexico’s 12 percent
share, barely changed from 2000.  April Visit  Still, Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto, who visited
Beijing in April, is looking to expand trade and investment with
China, if only to diversify away from the U.S., buyer of 80
percent of the country’s exports.  Both the U.S. and China deny they’re competing with one
another. The two countries “can play to their respective
advantages” and contribute to the region’s development, Foreign
Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said May 21 in Beijing.  In the case of the U.S., those advantages include its role
as a purchaser of the region’s high-value manufacturing goods,
an administration official said in a May 22 conference call with
reporters.  Case in point: Brazil’s Embraer SA this month announced a
$4 billion deal to sell regional jets to United Continental
Holdings Inc. partner SkyWest Inc. after winning a U.S. contract
in February to provide 20 Super Tucano turboprops to the Afghan
military. At the same time, almost 90 percent of the $41 billion
Brazil sold to China last year was derived from commodities.  Earlier this month, Brazil was the focus of a U.S. trade
mission for 20 companies including Morgan Stanley, Textron
Inc.’s Cessna Aircraft Co. and OSI Systems Inc.’s Rapiscan,
which makes airport screening devices. The delegation also
visited Colombia and Panama.  “The Chinese still come with a lot of money and that’s
tough to say no to,” said  Eric Farnsworth , head of the
Washington office of the Council of the Americas, a group
representing U.S. businesses. “But increasingly these countries
have a better understanding of who has what to offer and on what
conditions. For the first time questions are being raised about
whether the region pushed the U.S. too far away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  