-- BMO Leads Canada Bank Stocks Down as Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-05-29T20:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/bmo-leads-canada-bank-stocks-lower-after-profit-misses-estimates.html
Bank of Montreal  led Canadian lenders
lower in Toronto trading after posting second-quarter results
that missed analysts’ estimates.  Bank of Montreal (BMO)   fell  1.9 percent to C$62.50 at 4 p.m., the
biggest drop since June 2012, making it the  worst performer 
today on the eight-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX Commercial
Banks Index.  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ,  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and the
country’s three other big lenders also declined.  Profit for the period ended April 30 slid 5.3 percent to
C$975 million ($940 million), or C$1.42 a share, from C$1.03
billion, or C$1.51, a year earlier, Toronto-based Bank of
Montreal said today in a statement. Revenue declined 0.4 percent
to C$3.94 billion.  Canada’s fourth-largest bank recorded C$50 million of
expenses tied to its integration of Wisconsin lender Marshall &
Ilsley Corp., which it bought in July 2011 for C$4.1 billion,
and an C$82 million restructuring charge tied to cost-cutting.
The bank also faced lower earnings from Canadian lending and
insurance, according to the statement.  “We view the results as a noisy mess,”  Robert Sedran , an
analyst with CIBC World Markets, said in a note to investors.
“The Canadian personal and commercial-banking segment’s
earnings and revenue growth trailed peers so far this quarter.”  Adjusted earnings, which exclude some items, were C$1.46 a
share, the company said, missing the C$1.48  average estimate  of
15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Bank of Montreal joins
Toronto-Dominion Bank and Scotiabank in posting results that
missed estimates.  Canadian Banking  Canadian consumer-banking profit fell 0.7 percent to C$430
million from a year earlier on lower net interest margins and
higher expenses, Bank of Montreal said. Net interest margin is
the difference between what a bank pays for deposits and charges
for loans.  “The slowing in Canadian lending is something we’ve
expected,” John Kinsey, who helps manage about C$1 billion at
Caldwell Securities Ltd. in Toronto, said in an interview. “For
some time all of the banks have said it’s going to be tough to
grow in  Canada .”  Profit from Bank of Montreal’s Chicago-based BMO Harris
Bank consumer-lending unit rose 9.2 percent to C$155 million,
the company said.  “Our feeling of optimism around economic growth in the
United States, the prospects for Canada, the stabilization of
the consumer and the plateauing of consumer debt in Canada is a
good thing,” Chief Executive Officer William Downe, 61, said in
a telephone interview. “We feel good about personal and
commercial banking on both sides of the border.”  Capital Markets  Earnings from BMO Capital Markets, the lender’s investment-banking unit, climbed 18 percent to C$275 million. Profit from
the private-client group, which includes insurance and mutual
funds, fell 4.1 percent to C$141 million, the bank said.  The lender set aside C$145 million for bad loans, down from
C$195 million a year earlier.  Bank of Montreal is “taking concrete steps to be more
efficient,” Downe said on a call with investors. “The
restructuring charge this quarter is part of an active, ongoing
commitment to align non-interest expense with the current and
future business environment.”  Downe said he isn’t seeing takeover opportunities in the
U.S. Midwest, where the lender has had a presence since buying
Harris Bank for C$718 million in 1984.  “I have not seen any change in the willingness of people
to even talk seriously about transactions,” Downe said. “The
expectation is things are going to get better and sellers are on
the sideline.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  