-- BOE’s Bean Says Monetary Policy Can Be Backstop Against Excesses
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-05-29T12:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/boe-s-bean-says-monetary-policy-can-be-backstop-against-excesses.html
Bank of England  Deputy Governor
 Charles Bean  said there may be times when monetary policy can be
a backstop against financial “excesses” and that its focus
should not always be just  price stability .  “There are other policies, in particular the toolkit of
macro-prudential, which can be addressed to limiting excesses in
the financial system,” Bean said in London today. “But there
may be occasions where monetary policy could get in all the
cracks -- it may be a useful backstop. In that sense, it’s
another reason for why we want to allow temporary departures
from the inflation target.”  The Bank of England has reclaimed power over financial
regulation in the U.K. and is using macro-prudential tools to
ensure stability. At the same time, the government has revamped
the central bank’s  monetary-policy  framework to give it more
flexibility to meet its 2 percent price goal.  “Pre-crisis it was the norm that monetary policy was used
to control aggregate demand to keep inflation reasonably stable,
close to target, and then micro-supervision would look after any
problems in the banking system,” Bean said. “What we’ve
realized through the experience of the financial crisis is that
the world is more complicated. Potentially monetary policy can’t
be focused solely on the macroeconomic objective of price
stability.”  In response to questions at an event hosted by the Official
Monetary and Financial Institutions Forum, Bean also said
efforts to reduce debt levels will weigh on economic growth for
some time.  “In many advanced economies, including ourselves, some
parts of those economies are carrying forward relatively high
debt levels,” he said. “That will act as a drag on demand
growth for at least some time to come. So the recovery is likely
to be one that is long drawn out. We’ve already seen the first
phase of that. It is likely there will be more of that in the
future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  