-- BOE Targets June to Complete Review of Banks’ Capital Raising
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-05-29T12:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/boe-targets-june-to-complete-review-of-banks-capital-raising.html
The U.K.’s Prudential Regulation
Authority is aiming to tell all lenders their individual share
of a 25 billion-pound ($37.8 billion) capital shortfall by the
end of June, according to a senior bank supervisor.  The watchdog has a “timely but not rushed process” to
discuss with each firm in turn the steps they need to take to
bolster their balance sheets,  Sam Woods , a director at the PRA’s
domestic banking division, said in an interview in London.  “We’re quite a way through that process but we’re still in
it,” said Woods, who oversees U.K. banks including  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc . “My
expectation is we’ll basically be through by the end of June.”  The PRA, the unit of the  Bank of England  which took over
responsibility for banking supervision from the Financial
Services Authority last month, along with the Financial Policy
Committee, ordered lenders to boost their capital by the end of
the year. Lloyds and RBS said this month they could meet the
requirements without needing to raise additional equity or sell
contingent convertible securities, known as CoCos.  “Some people were asking, ’have you really made them do
anything? Has the world changed as a result, because the banks
so far haven’t had to raise equity?’ The answer is absolutely
yes,” said Woods.  The British banking system “will be significantly better
capitalized by the end of this year than it would have been
without” the FPC exercise, said Woods, who was formerly a
senior manager at U.K. Financial Investments Ltd., the company
set up during the 2008 financial crisis to manage the
government’s investments in Lloyds and RBS. “I’m absolutely
convinced of that.”  Selling Units  Britain’s lenders have been selling units and detailing
plans to bolster their businesses since the central bank
initially said in November it was concerned that they weren’t
holding enough capital.  Since then, Lloyds has sold a 35 percent stake in wealth-manager St. James’s Place Plc and is considering a sale of its
Scottish Widows Investment Partnership division. Edinburgh-based
RBS said in February it would sell a 25 percent stake in
Citizens Financial Group Inc., the U.S. consumer and commercial
lender, and would further shrink its investment bank.  Lloyds  shares  have advanced 27 percent this year. RBS
shares, which are up 1.2 percent in 2013, remain below the 407
pence break even rate on the government’s 45.5 billion-pound
investment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  