-- BOE’s Bean Says Global Policy Coordination Is Not Always Easy
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-05-29T10:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/boe-s-bean-says-global-policy-coordination-is-not-always-easy.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor
Charles Bean said coordination among global policy makers is
often difficult because of differences of opinion on the causes
of economic problems.  “Why has it in practice proved so difficult to achieve?”
Bean said in  London  today, referring to the commitments by Group
of 20 nations at the Pittsburgh summit in 2009. “First and
foremost, the actors have not always shared the same diagnosis
of the underlying problems.”  Bean said that while coordination “could generate a better
outcome by helping policy makers to internalize the consequences
of their actions,” implementing this “turns out not to be so
easy.” This is partly because of asymmetry in the global
economy, he said.  “In addition, because multiple actions by multiple actors
are needed, there is a genuine difficulty in ensuring that
agreements are stuck to and free riding is avoided,” he said.
“And that is more of a problem, the weaker are the political
ties between countries.”  He added that there are some aspects of the international
policy process that have “worked well,” including
strengthening global financial regulation.  Bean also said “we are still a long way short of seeing a
full recovery in the advanced economies.”  “That sluggishness in the recovery reflects the fact that,
unlike a normal cycle, substantial real adjustments are also
required,” he said. “These include not only the repair of
over-extended balance sheets, especially in the banking sector,
but also the need to shift the composition of demand and
production towards more sustainable patterns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  