-- Japan’s Bond Market Wants BOJ to Purchase More Short-Term
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-05-29T06:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/boj-seen-failing-to-tame-volatility-as-sale-slumps.html
Expectations for the widest bond
price swings in more than four years and the weakest demand at
an auction in nine months added to signs of waning debt market
confidence in Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda.  Implied volatility of Japan’s 10-year note futures, a
measure of expected moves used to price options, climbed to 7.23
percent yesterday, the highest since November 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. A sale of 20-year debt yesterday
drew the lowest demand since August 2012. Expected price
fluctuations for U.S. Treasury futures rose to 5.06 percent from
3.61 percent on April 30.  “Confidence in the BOJ’s monetary policy is starting to be
shaken,” said Toru Suehiro, a market economist in Tokyo at
Mizuho Securities Co., one of the 24 primary dealers obliged to
bid at government debt auctions. “Doubt is the biggest enemy
for monetary policy.”  Japan’s benchmark 10-year yield jumped to 1 percent last
week, a one-year high, even after the BOJ doubled bond purchases
in April to end 15 years of deflation in the world’s third-largest economy. While Kuroda indicated this week that the
financial system can weather an increase in yields if it occurs
alongside an economic recovery, mortgage and corporate borrowing
rates have started climbing as consumer prices continue to fall.  Yields Jump  Ten-year Japanese government bond yields rose three basis
points to 0.935 percent today after jumping 7 1/2 basis points
yesterday. They stood at 0.55 percent on April 3, the day before
the BOJ unveiled a plan to buy more than 7 trillion yen ($69
billion) of bonds every month, about half the  amount  that Japan
plans to sell in the market in the fiscal year started April.
The policy aims to double cash in the economy in two years.  BOJ policy board member Ryuzo Miyao said yesterday that the
central bank’s debt purchases will “ strongly support ” growth
by keeping interest rates lower even when improved economic
prospects put upward pressure on borrowing costs.  So far, policy makers are getting the opposite results. As
JGB yields climbed, the benchmark lending rate for large
corporations, known as the  prime rate , rose 10 basis points from
its record low to 1.25 percent on May 10, according to Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. Rates for 35-year  home loans  inched higher
to 1.81 percent this month from an all-time low of 1.8 percent
in April, data from the Japan Housing Finance Agency show.  Corporate Bonds  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Asahi Glass Co. sold
20 billion yen of 10-year, 1.005 percent bonds, according to a
statement yesterday from Nomura Holdings Inc. The Tokyo-based
company offered similar-maturity debt in 2009 that paid 1.943
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan’s corporate notes have handed investors a 0.47
percent loss this month, poised for the worst performance since
March 2011, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. That
compared with a 1.64 percent decline for the nation’s sovereign
debt, and a 1.15 percent loss for company bonds worldwide.  Five-year credit-default swaps to insure Japan’s sovereign
notes were at 71 basis points yesterday, after rising to 74 on
May 27, the highest since April 3, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. An
increase in the contracts signals worsening perceptions of
creditworthiness, while a decrease suggests the opposite.  The  Markit iTraxx Japan index , comprised of default swaps
for 50 companies, was at 88.5 basis points yesterday after
increasing to 93 on the previous day, the highest since April
22, CMA data show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Bond Auction  The yen rose 0.3 percent to 102.08 per dollar as of 3:37
p.m. in Tokyo today. It has tumbled 12 percent this year, the
most among the 10 developed-market currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes.  The Ministry of Finance’s 1.1 trillion-yen offering of 20-year debt yesterday attracted bids valued at 2.54 times the
amount available, down from 3.68 at the prior sale in April.
Yields on the securities rose 3 1/2 basis points to 1.695
percent in the market yesterday.  “The 20-year auction came in weaker than I expected,”
said Takuma Sugawara, a senior JGB strategist in  Tokyo  at
Societe Generale SA, another primary dealer. “I think
investors’ demand for the securities will start to pick up as
yields move higher,” with buying interest already seen when
rates are around 1.7 percent, he said.  The ministry will  auction  2.9 trillion yen of 2-year notes
on May 30 and 2.4 trillion yen of 10-year debt on June 4.  Deflation Lingers  Government data due for release on May 31 may show that
deflation persists in Japan, bolstering the allure of fixed-income securities.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food  fell 0.4
percent in Japan last month from a year earlier, according to
the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The rate hasn’t been above zero since April 2012.  Price swings have also increased in the share market.  One-month  implied volatility  of the Topix stock index
jumped to 36.4 percent on May 24, the highest since the
aftermath of Japan’s record earthquake in March 2011. The gauge
closed 1.2 percent higher yesterday after swinging between a 1.2
percent drop and a 1.8 percent gain. The Topix rose 0.9 percent
today.  “Even when stocks fall, bonds are more likely to be sold
if volatility remains high in the debt market,” said Kazuya Ito, the head of fixed income in Tokyo at Daiwa SB Investments
Ltd., which oversees the equivalent of $48 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  