-- Brazilian Soccer Clubs May Face Relegation Under New Debt Plan
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-05-29T15:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/brazilian-soccer-clubs-may-face-relegation-under-new-debt-plan.html
Brazilian soccer clubs owe about 3
billion reais ($1.4 billion) in unpaid taxes, and may face point
deductions or relegation should they fail to meet conditions of
a proposed new agreement to help ease the debts.  Funds from sponsors and broadcasters have boosted the
revenue of teams in the Campeonato Brasileiro, the country’s top
division. Still, years of mismanagement have led the government
to intervene in a country where soccer is by far the most-popular sport, and where the 2014 World Cup will be staged.  The “government recognizes the situation that some of the
Brazilian soccer clubs have been through recently,” the sports
ministry said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “For this
reason, aiming to strengthen these clubs, the government is
creating a debt-renegotiation project.”  The government didn’t provide complete details on its
proposals to waive some of the debt in return for management
reform. The plan is part of a bill that requires parliamentary
approval.  Rio de Janeiro-based  Flamengo ,  Brazil ’s most-popular soccer
team, has the highest debt, which club President Eduardo Bandeira de Mello said in an interview has reached 750 million
reais, with more than half owed in unpaid federal taxes.  Supporters of the member-owned team in December elected a
new board headed by Bandeira de Mello, a former economist at
Brazil’s development bank BNDES who campaigned on a ticket of
fixing the club’s finances.  Another Rio club, Botafogo, which last year signed four-time European Cup winner Clarence Seedorf, and Fluminense, last
year’s championship winner, owe a combined billion reais,
according to Amir Somoggi, a consultant to several top division
clubs.  Financial Assistance  The government’s proposals are currently being discussed
with soccer teams.  “It is not about forgiveness or amnesty,” the sports
ministry said, explaining clubs must agree to a series of
reforms in exchange for any financial assistance. These include
changes to the way they’re managed, and a promise to invest a
proportion of their income into helping the country develop
athletes for the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Rio in 2016.  Flamengo, which runs several sports teams, earlier this
year cut its elite swimming, judo and gymnastic teams to save
costs.  On May 16, Sports Minister Aldo Rebelo said some of the
country’s teams were in “dire straits.”  “It’s a challenge,” he said. “We want to improve the
financial health of our clubs by allowing them to be
professional with a management more engaged in obtaining revenue
in order to avoid such a high level of indebtedness.”  UEFA Regulations  The sports ministry said that should the bill pass, clubs
that don’t meet their commitments may face penalties similar to
those being planned by European soccer’s governing body UEFA
under its new financial control regulations.  Board members would be required to pay fines for breaching
regulations and their clubs would face points deductions. The
worst offenders would be demoted to a lower league.  “In case of infringement, the relegation of the club may
occur,” the sports ministry statement said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 