-- Brazil’s Economic Growth Disappoints for Fifth Quarter
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-05-29T16:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/brazil-s-economic-growth-disappoints-for-fifth-quarter.html
Brazil ’s growth unexpectedly slowed
in the first quarter, complicating government efforts to revive
the economy as it battles inflation. Swap rates fell.  The economy expanded 0.55 percent in the January-March
period, the national statistics agency said today in Rio de
Janeiro. Gross domestic product increased less than the 0.9
percent median forecast of analysts polled by Bloomberg, the
fifth straight quarter of slower-than-forecast growth. On an
annualized basis, the expansion decelerated to 2.2 percent, down
from 2.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012.  Investors are paring bets the central bank tonight will
accelerate the pace of monetary tightening to rein in inflation
near the 6.5 percent upper limit of its target range. President
Dilma Rousseff’s government over the past year has lowered
borrowing costs to a record low, cut taxes and slashed utility
rates in a bid to stimulate growth -- so far to little avail.  “The growth deceleration shows that the economic recovery
has not manifested itself,” Kathryn Rooney Vera, macroeconomic
strategist at Bulltick Capital Markets LP, said by telephone
from Miami today. “The plan of attack has not panned out.”  While investment surged 4.6 percent in the first quarter,
it’s likely to lose momentum in the coming months as one-time
stimulus to boost truck sales fades. Continued gains in
investment will also require that domestic demand rebounds,
Marcelo Salomon, co-head for Latin America Economics at Barclays
Plc, said by phone today. Household spending rose 0.1 percent in
the first quarter -- its worst performance since 2011.  Rate Outlook  Thirty-eight of 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
 forecast  policy makers today will raise the benchmark Selic rate
by 25 basis points to 7.75 percent. Nineteen analysts expect a
half-point increase to 8 percent.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in July 2013, the most
traded in Sao Paulo today, fell one basis point to 7.56 percent
at 1:34 p.m. local time.  “With this GDP figure, the probability that a 25 basis-point increase prevails is stronger,” Andre Loes, chief Latin
America economist at HSBC Bank Brasil SA, said by phone from Sao
Paulo.  Dragging down growth in the first quarter was a 0.3 percent
contraction in industrial output, following two periods of
expansion, today’s report showed. Services, which are
responsible for the bulk of activity, expanded 0.5 percent.  Finance Minister Guido Mantega said the fact that
investment is recovering even as the global economy remains
depressed is satisfying. He said the government has no plans to
provide additional stimulus as the full impact of payroll tax
cuts and other measures are only now being fully felt.  Inflation Outlook  “We’re beginning 2013 much better than we did the start
of last year,” Mantega told reporters in Brasilia, downplaying
the decline in the annualized growth rate. “What’s to the right
of the comma is always revised during the course of the year.”  GDP rose 1.9 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier after expanding 0.9 percent in all of 2012 -- the worst
performance since 2009.  Even as the government struggles to revive growth,
inflation remains a concern after it exceeded the bank’s target
range in March for the first time since November 2011.  Mantega today said that recent weakness in the real, which
has declined more than 4.6 percent in the last month, isn’t
contributing to inflation pressures and can drive faster growth
by boosting exports. As such, the government has no plans to use
the exchange rate to tame price increases.  ‘Stagflation’  “Other tools exist to combat inflation,” he said. “This
is an international shift and there’s no reason we should be
different.”  The real extended losses after his comments, falling 1.4
percent to 2.1050 per dollar as of 1:41 p.m. local time.  Brazil is the only country in the Group of 20 nations whose
central bank is increasing borrowing costs, and earlier this
month Europe,  Australia  and  India  all lowered their rates.  Inflation slowed to 6.49 percent in April while still
exceeding estimates of all but one of 30 analysts polled by
Bloomberg. Central bank President Alexandre Tombini said in a
May 21 speech that the monetary authority will act to ensure
that inflation slows in the second half of 2013 and next year.  Retail sales contracted for two months in the first quarter
as inflation ate away at purchasing power. Monthly  consumer
confidence  has fallen four times so far this year, according to
an index published by the Getulio Vargas Foundation.  “Brazil is going through a period of slow growth and fast
inflation -- a period of stagflation,” Salomon said. “The weak
data on consumption will spark debate that this could be more
prolonged than expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  