-- Brazilian Cement Maker Votorantim Seeks $3.7 Billion in IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-05-29T15:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/brazilian-cement-maker-votorantim-seeks-3-7-billion-in-ipo.html
Votorantim Cimentos SA,  Brazil ’s
biggest cement producer, is moving ahead with an initial public
offering, seeking to raise as much as $3.7 billion.  The cement producer and its parent plan to offer 400
million units for listing in Sao Paulo or their equivalent in
American depositary receipts in New York, according to a
regulatory filing. The units will be offered for 16 to 19 reais
($7.68 to $9.12) each, while the ADRs, equivalent to two shares,
will be offered for $15.59 to $18.51, the filing showed.  Sao Paulo-based Votorantim Cimentos, the world’s eighth-largest cement maker, with factories from Latin America and the
U.S. to  Turkey ,  India  and  China , plans to use proceeds from the
sale for expansion outside its home country and potential
acquisitions. The company seeks to follow other Brazil-based
companies such as  Banco do Brasil SA ’s insurance unit and  Alupar
Investimento SA (ALUP11)  in completing IPOs this year.  Votorantim Cimentos, founded in 1933, is moving ahead with
the sale even after the benchmark Brazilian  Ibovespa (IBOV)  declined
9.6 percent this year amid slowing growth and as government
intervention in utilities, energy and banking crimped earnings.  Of the 400 million units on offer, Votorantim Cimentos
plans to sell 285.7 million, while Votorantim Industrial SA will
sell the remaining 114.3 million, according to the filing. Each
Votorantim Cimentos unit is equal to one common share and two
preferred shares, according to the filing.  The ADRs will be listed on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol VEBM, and the common stock on the Sao Paulo
Stock Exchange under VEBM3, the company said in its filing.
Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Banco Itau BBA SA, Credit
Suisse Group AG and BTG Pactual SA are managing the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  