-- Brazil Raises Rate More Than Estimates as Inflation Saps GDP
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-05-30T00:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/brazil-raises-key-rate-to-8-as-inflation-threatens-recovery.html
Brazil ’s central bank unexpectedly
accelerated the pace of interest rate increases, as policy
makers step up efforts to slow inflation that forestalled the
economy’s rebound in the first quarter.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, voted
unanimously to raise the benchmark Selic rate 50 basis points to
8.00 percent, matching the forecast of 19 of 57 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Thirty-eight analysts expected a second
straight 25 basis-point increase.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has renewed
pledges to slow inflation even as Brazil’s $2.5 trillion economy
has expanded less than expected by analysts for five straight
quarters. While the government kept borrowing costs at a record
low 7.25 percent from October through March and expanded tax
cuts to spur activity, stimulus measures have failed to spark
growth and driven inflation to the upper limit of the central
bank’s target range.  Latin America ’s biggest economy
unexpectedly slowed in the first quarter as higher consumer
prices eroded demand.  “The decision was necessary due to inflation levels, and
even with the weak economy,” Fernando Fix, chief economist at
Votorantim Asset Management, said by phone from Sao Paulo.
“Inflation is at high levels, and represents one of the main
reasons behind low growth.” Fix expects the Selic to end the
year at 8.75 percent.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in July, the most
traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 7.56 percent. The real weakened 1.7 percent
to 2.1106 per dollar.  ‘Timely Way’  Today’s decision represented the first time since Tombini
became president of the central bank in 2011 that policy makers
surprised analysts surveyed by Bloomberg by setting the
benchmark rate at a higher-than-expected level.  Central bankers may have to “intensify” use of the Selic
to tame inflation, the institution’s economic policy director
Carlos Hamilton said April 25. Tombini on May 21 said the bank
will “do what is necessary, in a timely way” to ensure price
increases slow in the second half of the year. Brazil won’t
tolerate inflation, as price increases hurt growth, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said today.  Annual  inflation  accelerated for nine straight months
through March to 6.59 percent, above the top of the central
bank’s target range of 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent. In April,
year-on-year inflation eased to 6.49 percent.  Policy Plan  Policy makers today said they expect that the half-point
rate increase will slow inflation throughout this year and 2014,
according to their statement posted on the central bank’s
website.  Analysts who cover Brazil’s economy forecast year-end
inflation at 5.81 percent, up from a previous projection of 5.71
percent a month ago, according to the central bank’s latest
weekly survey of about 100 economists.  Inflationary pressures are persisting across areas of the
economy including transportation and food and beverage,
according to Carlos Kawall, the chief economist at Banco J.
Safra.  Retail sales in March unexpectedly fell for the third time
in four months, while  consumer confidence  has declined to a
three-year low.  “There are problems created by logistics and supply
restrictions,” Kawall said by phone from Sao Paulo before
today’s decision. “This creates an inertia effect that results
in higher inflation in later periods. The central bank has to
fight this effect.”  GDP, Expectations  Brazil is the only country in the Group of 20 nations whose
central bank is raising its key rate. In the past month,
countries including  Israel , the European Union, Australia and
 India  have all lowered borrowing costs.  Brazil’s economy  expanded  0.55 percent in the first
quarter, the national statistics agency said today. The result
was lower than the 0.64 increase pace set in the fourth quarter
of 2012, and below the 0.9 percent median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Consumer default rates in April fell for the fourth
straight month, while unemployment hovers near record lows.
Industrial production in March expanded 0.7 percent after
plunging the most since 2008 in February.  Brazil’s gross domestic product growth is accelerating and
government measures to boost investments are working, Mantega
said today.  Anchoring Expectations  Brazilian companies have posted their longest stretch of
earnings disappointments on the back of the country’s uneven
recovery.  Thirty-seven of the 65 companies on the Ibovespa index
reported first-quarter results that trailed analyst’s estimates.
Four companies posted unexpected losses, including homebuilder
 Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  and mining company  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA. (MMXM3)   Brazil’s economy expanded 0.9 percent last year, the
slowest pace since 2009. Economists surveyed weekly by the
central bank have cut their 2013 growth forecast for the second
straight week to 2.93 percent, below the central bank’s forecast
of 3.1 percent.  Even as economic growth remains a concern for the central
bank, policy makers are raising rates in an effort to anchor
inflation expectations, according to Darwin Dib, chief economist
at CM Capital Markets Asset Management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  