-- Bulgarian Parliament Approves Socialist-Led Minority Cabinet
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-05-29T10:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/bulgarian-parliament-approves-socialist-led-minority-cabinet.html
Bulgarian lawmakers approved the
Socialist-led minority coalition Cabinet of Prime Minister
Plamen Oresharski, ending months of political uncertainty.  Lawmakers in the 240-seat assembly voted 120 to 97
lawmakers to back the Socialists’ coalition with the ethnic Turk
Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Oresharski, 53, is a former
finance minister and university professor. Zinaida Zlatanova,
who led the European Union delegation in Sofia, will be his
deputy prime minister, taking charge of justice, internal order
and EU funds.  The EU’s poorest nation is struggling to emerge from
political turmoil that started with anti-austerity protests that
forced out the previous government in February and led to a snap
election on May 12. Bulgaria’s new leader will need to balance
between budget cuts to keep finances stable and demands for
higher wages and lower energy costs.  Petar Chobanov, a professor who was a chairman of the
financial regulator, was named finance minister, while Dragomir
Stoynev, an alumnus of Sorbonne University in Paris and a former
adviser of Socialist leader Sergei Stanishev, was picked to be
minister of energy and economy. Kristian Vigenin, a European
Parliament member, will lead the Foreign Ministry.  The government will review potential energy-price cuts and
start a health-care overhaul, Oresharski said. His plan also
includes reimbursing about 350 million lev ($231 million) of
value-added taxes to companies and repaying about 100 million
lev for completed public orders to businesses.  Increasing social benefits for the poor and families with
young children, which will require a total of 7 million lev, is
also part of the plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  