-- BW Group Adds $605 Million of Gas Ships as Rates Increase
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-05-29T14:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/bw-group-expands-gas-carrier-fleet-as-record-trade-drives-rates.html
BW Group Ltd., the biggest owner of
the largest liquefied petroleum gas carriers, will expand its
fleet with ships valued at as much as $605 million as record
trade in the fuel lifts freight rates to near a record.  The company bought five very large gas carriers from Maersk
Tankers and took over charters for the same number, the two
owners said in a joint statement today. The fleet would cost
between $580 million and $605 million, assuming the vessels lack
charters, Arctic Securities ASA analyst Erik Nikolai Stavseth in
Oslo said by e-mail today.  Rates for the ships jumped as much as 78 percent to $70.86
a metric ton this year, in part because the U.S. is shipping a
record amount of LPGs including propane and butane as it taps
new energy reserves found in shale-rock formations. The
transaction will add to BW Group’s share in a market where it
already has the biggest fleet, according to data from  Clarkson
Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker.  BW Group, based in  Singapore , owns 15 VLGCs and operates
seven more, communications and brand manager Lisa Lim said by
phone. There are 165 of the vessels in service, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The transaction requires regulatory approval.  Maersk Tankers is selling to focus on fewer shipping
markets, Chief Executive Officer Hanne Soerensen said by phone
today. The company “has no further plans at this point” to
sell additional vessels, she said.  Rates for VLGCs will this year exceed the record $81.64 a
ton set in 2008,  Exmar NV (EXM) , an Antwerp, Belgium-based owner of
LPG carriers, said May 21. Trade in the fuel used in everything
from cigarette lighters to plastics will advance 6 percent this
year to a record 71 million tons, according to shipbroker
Joachim Greig & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  