-- California Gun Restrictions Advanced by Senate Democrats
-- B y   M a r k   M e l n i c o e
-- 2013-05-29T21:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/california-gun-restrictions-advanced-by-senate-democrats.html
California ’s Democrat-controlled
Senate approved a package of gun measures to tighten laws that
are already among the most restrictive in the U.S. in the wake
of massacres including a  Connecticut  school shooting.  The bills sent to the Assembly, also led by Democrats,
included measures to ban magazines holding more than 10 rounds
as well as semi-automatic rifles with detachable magazines,
require ownership records for all types of guns and set
background checks for ammunition buyers.  “They are designed to close loopholes, to keep the
circulation of guns and ammunition out of the hands of dangerous
persons,” Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg of
 Sacramento  said before a vote on his measure. “The common
characteristic in each of these mass shootings is easy access to
rapidly reloading guns with detachable high-capacity
magazines.”  The measures were introduced after 20 children and six
educators were slain Dec. 14 at Sandy Hook Elementary School in
Newtown, Connecticut. In July, a gunman killed 12 people and
wounded 70 at a movie theater in Aurora,  Colorado . Lawmakers in
New York, Colorado, Connecticut and  Maryland  passed new firearms
limits after the killings.  Senators Jim Nielsen, a Republican from Gerber, and
Roderick Wright, an Inglewood Democrat, argued against several
of the measures.  “There’s this perception of, oh my god, all these assault
weapons,” Wright said. “Let me remind you of something.
Assault weapons in the United States and in California kill less
than 1 percent of the people who are killed.”  California passed the nation’s first assault-weapon ban on
some semi-automatic rifles in 1989 after a gunman with an AK-47
sprayed an elementary school in Stockton, killing five children
and wounding 29. A federal ban passed in 1994 has since expired
and efforts to restore it have so far stalled in Congress.  Another of the most deadly mass shootings in the U.S.
occurred in  California  in 1984, when a gunman killed 21 people
at a McDonald’s restaurant near San Diego.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Melnicoe in Sacramento at 
 mmelnicoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  