-- Canada Dollar Advances as Carney Retains Bias to Raise Rates
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-05-29T21:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/canada-dollar-advances-as-carney-retains-bias-to-raise-rates.html
The Canadian dollar rose against its
U.S. peer for the first time in four days as outgoing Bank of
 Canada  Governor Mark Carney left interest rates unchanged and
retained his warning they could rise as economic growth
progresses.  The currency strengthened from the lowest level in almost a
year before data May 31 forecast to show the nation’s gross
domestic product grew 2.3 percent at an annual rate in the first
quarter, compared to 0.6 percent growth the previous period,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 23 economists. Carney noted
in his final policy meeting that first-quarter growth will
probably exceed the bank’s April forecast of 1.5 percent. He
will be succeeded by Stephen Poloz on June 3.  “When the statement turned unexpectedly a little bit more
hawkish, and the BOC did not remove the tightening bias, those
two events supported the loonie,” Adrian Miller, director of
fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New York, said
in a telephone interview. “That’s why you’re seeing the loonie
do a little bit better.”  Along with flagging stronger growth, Miller said the
central bank strengthened language predicting increased business
investment.  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.5 percent to
C$1.0351 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched
C$1.0421 earlier, the weakest since June 5, 2012. One loonie
buys 96.61 U.S. cents.  Bonds, Oil  Canada’s benchmark 10-year  bonds  were little changed with
yields at 2.07 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in
June 2023 lost seven cents to C$94.91.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 2.2
percent to $92.88 per barrel in New York while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks lost 0.7 percent.  The  benchmark rate  on overnight loans between commercial
banks remained at 1 percent for the 22nd consecutive meeting in
a decision from Ottawa that was expected by all 23 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey. Inflation has been slower than
projected since the last decision, policy makers said.  The currency rose after Carney reiterated his guidance that
the bank’s next move will likely be to raise rates.  ‘Upside Surprise’  “Over the last year, they’ve had nothing but downside
surprises to economic growth, so looking at a rare upside
surprise does give them a little more optimism the recovery is
on track,”  David Tulk , chief macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, said by phone from Toronto.
“The wider realization that it’s pretty much status quo for the
bank leaves the Canadian dollar a little more adrift, waiting
for the next macro theme.”  The loonie dropped yesterday to a one-year low versus the
greenback after confidence among U.S. consumers climbed to a
five-year high. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
last week the central bank could cut the pace of asset purchases
if officials see indications of sustained improvement in
economic growth.  “The way things are going, the U.S. may even hike rates
before Canada -- I think people are starting to feel that way,”
said Darcy Browne, managing director of currencies at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit, by phone
from Toronto.  Higher interest rates in the U.S. would make U.S. assets
more attractive relative to Canadian peers, strengthening the
American currency.  Risk Reversals  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
against its U.S. counterpart hovered near its lowest in two
weeks. The three-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate
touched 1.49 percent, near the 1.46 percent level reached
yesterday.  Risk reversals measure the premium on options contracts to
sell Canadian dollars versus buying U.S. contracts that do the
opposite.  “There was a quick reaction right after the statement, but
I still am U.S. dollar bullish,” said Greg Anderson, global
head of foreign exchange strategy at Bank of Montreal, by phone
from New York. “We’ve got a pause today in the general U.S.
dollar uptrend.”  The loonie has gained 2 percent in the last three months
against nine other developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weight  Index. (SPX)  The U.S. dollar has
increased 2.4 percent while the British pound gained 2.2
percent. The yen tumbled 7.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  