-- Canadian Dollar Gains on Bets of No Change in Carney’s Finale
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-05-29T12:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/canadian-dollar-gains-on-bets-of-no-change-in-carney-s-finale.html
The Canadian dollar gained from its
lowest point in almost a year against its U.S. counterpart amid
forecasts Bank of  Canada  Governor Mark Carney will make no
changes to monetary policy in his last policy decision.  The currency reversed three days of declines against the
U.S. dollar on bets the Bank of Canada will leave its benchmark
interest rate unchanged and Carney will retain the bias to raise
rates he has included in every policy statement since last
April. Stephen Poloz takes over as governor June 3 as Carney
leaves to head the Bank of England. Canada’s dollar fell
yesterday as strong U.S. economic data boosted speculation the
Federal Reserve could taper it monetary stimulus.  “Every time we see Carney stands pat on policy, doesn’t
change the interest rate, we always have a stronger Canadian
dollar on the back of it,” Eimear Daly, a currency-market
analyst at Monex Europe Ltd., said by phone from  London . “We’ve
seen a massive selloff in the Canadian dollar just because
people are really expecting an end to U.S. quantitative easing,
and I think it’s completely oversold at this point. In the next
few months, I think we’re going to see a correction in the
Canadian dollar.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
off the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, gained 0.2 percent to
C$1.0374 per U.S. dollar at 8:11 a.m. in Toronto after touching
C$1.0421, the weakest level since June 5, 2012. One loonie buys
96.40 U.S. cents.  The Fed has been purchasing $85 billion in assets a month
as part of its quantitative-easing program to lower borrowing
costs, a strategy that tends to devalue the currency.  All 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict Carney will
leave interest rates unchanged at 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  