-- Carlyle Buys 49% Stake in Two Chinese Shopping Malls on Demand
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-05-29T03:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/carlyle-buys-49-stake-in-two-chinese-shopping-malls-on-demand.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s second-largest manager of alternative assets, bought a minority stake
in two Chinese shopping malls, seeking to tap a retail property
boom spurred by rising domestic consumption.  A company advised by Carlyle’s Asia real estate group
bought a 49 percent stake in Suzhou In-City Mall and Hangzhou
Gudun In-City Mall in eastern  China , both owned and operated by
SZITIC Commercial Property Co., according to an e-mailed
statement. The financial terms were not disclosed.  Carlyle is joining companies such as Hong Kong’s  New World
Department Store China Ltd. (825)  to invest in Chinese malls. The
country’s retail sales climbed 12.8 percent in April over a year
earlier, recovering from the 12.6 percent pace a month earlier
as the Chinese leadership vowed to improve the quality and
efficiency of economic growth.  “Rising household disposable income, continuing
urbanization, changing demographics and government initiatives
to promote domestic consumption will continue to benefit China’s
retail sector,” Jason Lee, head of Carlyle Asia Real Estate,
said in the statement.  Those factors will support growth in both rent and capital
value for well-operated retail properties, he added. Through the
acquisition, Carlyle entered a strategic partnership with SZITIC
Commercial Property, based in the southern Chinese city of
Shenzhen, according to the statement.  Asia Investments  Carlyle  Asia  Real Estate, set up in 2001, has invested more
than $2.1 billion of equity in Asia. In China, it has made 14
investments with total value of $2.5 billion, it said in the
statement.  The Suzhou mall has a gross floor area of 136,000 square
meters (1.5 million square feet) on four above-ground floors and
one floor of retail space in the basement, according to the
statement. The Hangzhou mall has four floors above ground and
two basement floors for car parks with a total gross floor area
of 52,000 square meters, it said.  Both malls have been in operation for more than three
years, with tenants selling fashion, electronics, food and
beverages under brands including Wal-Mart, Sephora and
Starbucks, according to the statement.  Carlyle managed $176 billion globally by March in funds
including private equity and real estate, the statement showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  