-- Carney’s Last Interest Rate Decision May Extend Pause
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-05-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/carney-s-last-interest-rate-decision-may-extend-pause.html
Bank of  Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
will probably use his last interest-rate decision to extend the
longest policy pause since the 1950s and reiterate tightening
may be needed after “a period of time.”  The  benchmark rate  on overnight loans between commercial
banks will remain at 1 percent for the 22nd consecutive meeting
in a decision from Ottawa due at 10 a.m. according to all 23
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey .  Carney leaves Canada as the only Group of Seven central
banker signaling the chance of tighter policy while the U.S.
Federal Reserve and  Bank of Japan  rekindle growth with asset
purchases, a policy Carney will oversee when he takes over the
 Bank of England  July 1. Stephen Poloz, who succeeds Carney as
governor as of June 3, will inherit responsibility for a
Canadian economy increasingly reliant on exports and investment
as indebted consumers and governments curb spending.  The bias to tighter policy “leaves Poloz with somewhat of
an awkward situation,” said  Mark Chandler , head of fixed-income
strategy at  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ’s RBC Capital Markets unit in
Toronto. Poloz probably wouldn’t introduce a bias to raise rates
if he was “starting from scratch,” Chandler said.  Poloz is likely to keep Canada’s key rate unchanged until
the fourth quarter of next year according to a Bloomberg survey
of 18 economists taken May 3 to May 8.  The Bank of Canada cut its forecast for 2013 growth in
April to 1.5 percent from 2 percent, and said the economy won’t
reach “full capacity” until mid-2015. Consumer prices have
lagged behind the central bank’s 2 percent target for a year,
and the  inflation rate  last month was the slowest since the end
of the last recession three years ago at 0.4 percent.  ‘Vague’ Guidance  “We would expect the  Bank of Canada  to retain its vague
rate hike guidance that at some point, a long way off, the next
move is up,” said  Derek Holt , Scotiabank’s vice-president of
economics in Toronto, adding that the language will be “of
little consequence to fixed income markets that have little rate
risk priced in,”  Canada relies on exports for about a third of its gross
domestic product, and the bank has said the recovery in foreign
trade is the slowest since World War II, hobbled by the Canadian
dollar’s “persistent strength” and the need for companies to
regain competitiveness.  The central bank also  said  in April that consumer debt
burdens will probably stabilize around the current record 165
percent of disposable income, after being elevated in part by a
rise in housing investment. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has
acted four times to make mortgage lending rules more restrictive
on concern housing markets in cities such as Vancouver and
Toronto were overheating.  Leon’s Furniture Ltd. (LNF)  reported  earnings  May 14 unchanged
from a year ago at 12 Canadian cents a share. Executives said in
the company’s quarterly report “we continue to see a soft
economy with no clear signs of any major turnaround.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  