-- Carney Praised While Leaving Canadian Stalemate: Economy
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-05-29T20:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/carney-policy-praised-while-leaving-canada-in-stalemate-economy.html
 Mark Carney leaves the Bank of
 Canada  this week receiving praise for sparing the country the
worst of the global recession even as he bequeaths to his
successor an economy saddled with consumer debt.  Carney, who kept the key interest rate at 1 percent for the
22nd consecutive announcement today, departs June 1 to take over
the Bank of England a month later. Stephen Poloz, who succeeds
him on June 3, will probably maintain Carney’s no-change policy
for at least the rest of the year, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Carney, the former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker who
became head of the Bank of Canada in 2008, quickly cut the main
interest  rate  to 0.25 percent during the crisis -- and then
vowed to keep it there for a year. The innovative policy,
emulated by Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, helped fuel a
borrowing binge that left Canadians with record household debt,
which will discourage Poloz from providing additional stimulus
at a time when exports are flagging.  “Poloz inherits a standstill with regards to interest
rates,” said John Braive, vice chairman at Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce’s CIBC Global Asset Management, which oversees
C$52 billion ($50 billion) of fixed income assets. “It’s a tug-of-war going on here between the domestic side of the economy
and the export side.”  The decision to leave the policy rate unchanged was
expected by all 23 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey .
Inflation has been slower than expected since the last decision
and economic growth has been faster, policy makers said.  ‘Modest Withdrawal’  “The considerable monetary policy stimulus currently in
place will likely remain appropriate for a period of time, after
which some modest withdrawal will likely be required, consistent
with achieving the 2 percent inflation target,” policy makers
led by Carney said in today’s statement, which echoed the last
decision on April 17.  Global economic growth will accelerate in 2014 with both
the U.S. and Japan continuing to outpace the euro area, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said in
its Economic Outlook report. U.S. gross domestic product will
rise 1.9 percent this year and 2.8 percent in 2014 and Japan’s
will increase 1.6 percent and 1.4 percent, the OECD projected,
while the euro-area economy will shrink 0.6 percent this year
before expanding 1.1 percent in 2014.  In Asia today, the Bank of  Thailand  cut its benchmark
interest rate for the first time this year as slowing economic
growth bolstered government calls for easing. The one-day bond
repurchase rate fell by a quarter of a percentage point to 2.5
percent.  Weaker Dollar  The Canadian dollar has weakened 3.8 percent during
Carney’s term, after it surged to parity with the U.S. dollar
under former Governor David Dodge. The benchmark Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Composite  Index (SPTSX)  fell 8.4 percent in U.S.-dollar terms
over Carney’s time, while the S&P 500 rose 18.2 percent. The
country’s sovereign bonds with maturities greater than one year
have returned 28.61 percent since Feb. 1, 2008. That’s the worst
performance among all but four countries tracked by
Bloomberg/EFFAS index data.  The Canadian dollar rose 0.5 percent to 1.0348 per U.S.
dollar at 4:30 p.m. today in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
96.64 U.S. cents. Canadian bonds were mixed, with the yield on
the benchmark government 10-year note falling 1 basis point to
2.06 percent. The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index fell 0.1
percent to 12,732.61.  Limited Purchases  Under Carney’s watch, the country’s banks avoided collapses
and injections of public capital. Limited asset purchases kept
financial markets working while freeing Canada from the risks
involved in winding up extraordinary policies, such as
encouraging excessive risk-taking by pension funds and insurance
companies, which the U.S., Europe and  Japan  face.  “You have a lot of countries in Europe that would give
their eye teeth for that sort of performance,” said David Rosenberg, chief economist and strategist with Gluskin Sheff +
Associates in Toronto. “He certainly deserves high marks and
he’s up to the job in the U.K.”  At the same time,  mortgage rates  near historic lows sparked
a 26 percent increase in Canadian house prices over the last
four years, leading Carney to warn that consumer debts are the
greatest domestic threat to the economy.  Carney has, for more than a year, been the only Group of
Seven central banker warning that interest rates may rise, in
part to curb the borrowing his policy has encouraged. He
reiterated that stance today, saying in a statement from Ottawa
tighter policy may be needed after “a period of time” as the
economic expansion progresses.  Inflation Target  Carney has also kept  inflation  at an average 1.7 percent in
his five years at the Bank of Canada, close to its 2 percent
target. The International Monetary Fund forecasts Canada’s
economy will grow by 1.5 percent this year, the slowest among
Group of 20 countries outside Europe.  “We are stuck in Canada,” Fiera Capital Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Guy Desjardins said May 23 in  Montreal . “Exports
can contribute positively to growth but up to a point, it won’t
make up for the contraction coming from the consumer sector.”  Nonetheless, Carney, Finance Minister Jim Flaherty and
banking regulators deserve praise for supporting the economy
with programs to keep credit markets working in the crisis while
keeping the risks of banking excess in check, said Paul Taylor,
chief investment officer at BMO Harris Private Banking Manages
in Toronto, which manages C$16 billion.  ‘Good Work’  “Good work has been done,” Taylor said in a telephone
interview. “The challenges that he faced in Canada and the job
that he did are certainly going to be called into play in a much
more meaningful way in his role as governor of the Bank of
England.”  Carney, 48, has some practice on the world stage preparing
him to become the first foreigner to run the 319-year-old Bank
of England, being named by Group of 20 leaders in 2011 to run
the Basel, Switzerland-based Financial Stability Board, the body
charged with drafting new rules to avoid future credit crises.  His market knowledge has been invaluable, said Gluskin
Sheff’s Rosenberg. That knowledge was on display at a November
2007 meeting where Carney asked who he could talk to about
Freddie Mac, the U.S. mortgage financier that was put under
conservatorship in 2008 amid soaring losses.  “Carney pulled out a huge spreadsheet and said ‘Here’s the
problem. I’m pretty sure they’re insolvent,’” Rosenberg said.  Wider Remit  A wider government remit will give Carney even more to do
at the Bank of England because banking regulation is set by a
separate agency in Canada. He hasn’t made direct comments on how
he plans to spur a U.K. economy that avoided an unprecedented
triple-dip recession in the first quarter as a pickup in
inventories and sluggish consumer spending growth countered a
slide in exports and investment.  Carney has given two speeches since his November
appointment talking about the utility of giving guidance about
the path of future interest rates, saying they can be useful
within a central bank’s existing mandate.  “His approach to policy in Canada is consistent with a
focus on forward guidance, at the expense of asset purchases,”
Royal Bank of Canada strategists Mark Chandler and Jens Larsen
wrote in a May 9 report. “If there is one thing that Governor
Carney is not bringing to the table in his new role at the BoE,
it is any ‘hands on’ experience with messy programs such as
quantitative easing that are in full bloom at the U.K.’s central
bank and in other places.”  Canada was “very fortunate to have somebody who had that
real world financial experience at the helm; that certainly
helped us navigate through the crisis more effectively,”
Rosenberg said. “It is historians who will really grade Mark
Carney; my sense is that history will treat him favorably.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  