-- Cash Left Untaxed Aided by $103 Billion in Bonds: Credit Markets
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-05-29T12:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/cash-left-untaxed-aided-by-103-billion-in-bonds-credit-markets.html
U.S. businesses with the most cash
are holding more than $425 billion overseas as they tap the bond
market to help sidestep a corporate tax rate that  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
 Tim Cook  says handicaps American competitiveness.  Among the 100 non-financial companies with the most cash
and marketable securities, 31 that disclose funds parked in
foreign units have sold $103 billion of dollar-denominated bonds
since the start of 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Cupertino, California-based Apple, which issued a
record $17 billion of bonds on April 30, leads borrowers from
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to  Nike Inc. (NKE)  paying an average of 2.38 percent
annually to borrow for about 12 years.  Raising domestic funds with debt instead of repatriating
non-U.S. holdings allows companies to exploit both record-low
yields and tax-deductible interest payments while also avoiding
a government levy of as much as 35 percent on the cash.
 Washington ’s tax code has failed to keep up with the digital age
by making it too costly to bring money home, Cook said last week
in congressional testimony. Of the iPhone maker’s $145 billion
of cash, 70 percent is held overseas.  Boost Leverage  “There’s this giant arbitrage game going on,” Edward Kleinbard, a tax law professor at the University of Southern
California, said in a telephone interview from Los Angeles. By
issuing dollar debt, “firms are leaving their worldwide
interest expense in the United States, where they’re deducting
that interest against their highest-taxed income in the world,
and getting cash to fund dividends or stock buybacks,” he said.  Global demand for information-technology multinationals has
left the businesses with at least $340 billion abroad, the most
of any industry, Bloomberg data show. The companies have issued
about $40 billion of bonds since the beginning of last year.  Conditions are ripe for technology borrowers to boost
leverage to fuel equity returns that have underperformed the
broader market, Barclays Plc analysts including Danish Agboatwala wrote in a May 16 report. Microsoft, Intel Corp. and
Cisco Systems Inc. will likely continue to use debt offerings to
“synthetically” unlock foreign cash.  “It’s a no-brainer,” John Lonski, chief economist for
Moody’s Capital Markets Research Group in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “Cash may be overseas, but through the
credit market it can be put to work, at least for the benefit of
shareholders.”  Pfizer Sale  Elsewhere in credit markets,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  issued $4 billion
of securities in its first dollar-denominated debt sale in more
than four years. Yields on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac mortgage
bonds that guide U.S. home-loan rates rose to the highest in 13
months. Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. obtained as
much as $7.2 billion of debt financing for its purchase of
Bausch & Lomb Holdings Inc.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, rose to the highest level since March,
climbing 3.2 basis points to 18.2 basis points. The gauge widens
when investors seek the perceived safety of government
securities and narrows when they favor assets such as corporate
bonds.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.6 basis point
to a mid-price of 75.5 basis points, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  European iTraxx  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings rose three to 98 at 1:15 p.m. in
 London . In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit iTraxx Asia index
of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  added one to 107.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE) 
were the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers yesterday, accounting for 3.7 percent of
the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Fannie Mae  The four-part offering by Pfizer, the world’s largest
drugmaker, included $1 billion of 3 percent, 10-year debt paying
a yield of 87.5 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. New York-based Pfizer last sold
dollar-denominated bonds in March 2009, issuing $13.5 billion of
securities in five parts.  Fannie Mae’s current-coupon 30-year securities climbed 0.09
percentage point to 2.91 percent, the highest since April 2012,
Bloomberg  data  show. The yields have risen from a record-low of
1.68 percent reached Sept. 26, after the Federal Reserve
announced it would start buying $40 billion of government-backed
housing debt a month, embarking on its third round of so-called
quantitative easing to spur growth.  Yields on mortgage-bonds are rising after Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told lawmakers last week that the pace of purchases
could be reduced if the economy shows sustained improvement,
sparking concern that values of the debt will fall as the
central bank pulls back from the market.  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index
fell 0.05 cent to 98.64 cents on the dollar, the lowest since
May 3. The measure, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, has gained 3.14 percent
this year.  Valeant Financing  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at S&P.  Valeant got financing of $6.7 billion to $7.2 billion from
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to help fund its $4.5 billion purchase
of Bausch & Lomb and will spend $4.2 billion to repay the eye-care company’s debt, according to a joint company statement.  In  emerging markets , relative yields widened 5 basis points
to 298 basis points, or 2.98 percentage points, according to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index . The measure has
climbed from 275 on May 10, the least in almost three months.  Of 100 U.S. non-financial companies with more than $1.1
trillion of cash and marketable securities, at least 45 disclose
overseas holdings in regulatory filings, Bloomberg data show.
Those companies keep more than 65 percent of their $654 billion
of total cash outside the country, with 31 of them issuing
dollar-denominated bonds since the start of 2012.  ‘Efficient Leverage’  Under the U.S. tax code, companies pay foreign taxes on
income earned outside the U.S. If they bring back the money,
they must pay the full U.S. tax rate of 35 percent after taking
credits for foreign taxes paid.  Apple alone skirted as much as $9.2 billion in taxes by
borrowing rather than repatriating funds, Gerald Granovsky, an
analyst at Moody’s, estimated this month. Because interest
payments are tax-deductible, Apple saves about another $100
million a year, he said.  “We pay all the taxes we owe -- every single dollar,”
Cook, Apple’s chief executive officer since 2011, said in
testimony on May 21 to the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations in response to accusations the company had
created a web of offshore entities to avoid paying U.S. taxes.  Adding debt to Apple’s capital structure will help with
“efficient leverage of our very strong balance sheet,” Apple
Chief Financial Officer Peter Oppenheimer said on an April 23
conference call with investors.  ‘Take Comfort’  Steve Dowling, an Apple spokesman, declined additional
comment.  The 31 U.S. corporate borrowers are paying less than
governments from  Brazil  to South Korea to raise funds in the
bond market with interest expenses than can be deducted against
domestic income.  More than $57.5 billion of their debt sold since the start
of 2012 was issued to mature in 10 years or more and has an
average coupon of 3.36 percent, Bloomberg data show. That
compares with the 4.74 percent yield as of yesterday on similar-maturity bonds for investment-grade companies in the U.S.,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  “To issue debt is very cost-effective for them,” Wesley Sparks, head of U.S. fixed income at Schroder Investment
Management North America Inc., which manages about $25 billion
of the assets, said in a telephone interview. “We can take
comfort in that, if worst comes to worst, and at some future
point there’s a recession and they needed to tap the cash, they
could bring it home.”  Microsoft, Cisco  Microsoft, which sold $1.95 billion of dollar bonds in
April after a $2.25 billion offering five months earlier, ranks
second to Apple with $74.5 billion of cash on March 31, $66
billion of which was held in foreign subsidiaries, according to
an April 18 regulatory filing.  Cisco, which last sold new debt in 2011, keeps more than 80
percent of its $47.4 billion stockpile overseas, according to
its filing. Nike, with 72 percent of its $4 billion in cash held
in foreign subsidiaries, last month entered the bond market for
the first time in a decade with a $1 billion offering. Intel,
which borrowed $6 billion in December, doesn’t disclose foreign
holdings.  “Given the historically low interest-rate environment that
prevails today, we view the prudent use of debt as a cost
effective and efficient tool in our long-term capital deployment
strategy,” Mary Remuzzi of Nike said in an e-mail.  Share Repurchases  Intel raised funds in December to “take advantage of
historically low interest rates,” said Chris Kraeuter,
spokesman for the Santa Clara, California-based chipmaker. “Our
capital allocation philosophy seeks to balance ongoing capital
expenditures, growth investments and direct return of capital to
shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.”  Peter Wootton, a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, and Kristin Carvell of Cisco declined to comment.  Offering documents for each bond sale cited share
repurchases as a potential use of proceeds. Apple’s
unprecedented borrowings will help finance a $100 billion
capital reward for equity owners.  “Companies can do almost anything with their offshore,
lightly taxed earnings, except use them for dividends or stock
buybacks,” Kleinbard said.  Repeal Wager  While companies with multinational operations have lobbied
for years to lower corporate tax rates in exchange for bringing
some of their offshore cash home, the push to rewrite tax laws
has cooled as the pace of deficit growth slows and lawmakers
work to revise immigration law.  The U.S. captured just 9 percent of its federal tax
revenues from companies in 2010, down from 32 percent in 1952,
according to a 2011 Congressional Research Service report. The
Fed’s plan to aid an economic recovery by purchasing assets and
suppressing interest rates has only made borrowing a more
attractive option for companies with offshore cash.  “The real risk is when it comes to refinancing all this
new debt, three or five or seven or 10 years from now, in an
environment where the yield curve will in all probability be
higher,” said Alan Shepard, an analyst and money manager at
Madison Investment Advisors Inc., which oversees about $16
billion in Madison,  Wisconsin . “Obviously, the board rooms are
betting on the repatriation tax being repealed or strongly
curtailed by then so they can then get the cash back to reduce
leverage.”  The following is a table of cash held overseas by U.S.
companies and bonds issued since the beginning of 2012, using
data compiled by Bloomberg:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  