-- Chafee Plans to Run for Re-Election in R.I. as a Democrat
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-05-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/chafee-said-to-plan-re-election-campaign-as-a-democrat.html
Governor Lincoln Chafee, a Republican
turned independent, plans to seek re-election in  Rhode Island 
next year as a Democrat, the state’s biggest political party.  Christian Vareika, a spokesman, said the governor plans to
make the formal affiliation switch today at Warwick City Hall.  Top Democrats embraced the 60-year-old leader’s decision.  “I’m delighted to hear that Governor Chafee is joining the
 Democratic Party ,” President  Barack Obama  said in a statement
released yesterday by the  Democratic National Committee . “I
enjoyed working with Linc when he was a Republican in the United
States Senate, and I look forward to continuing that
collaboration.”  The former Republican U.S. senator from the Ocean State
served as a co-chairman of Obama’s re-election campaign last
year. While almost half of Rhode Island voters are independent,
registered Democrats outnumber Republicans by about 4-to-1, and
the party dominates the state legislature. Chafee said in an
April interview he was considering a switch to seek re-election.  “Being a solo practitioner, as an independent, I enjoy the
status,” he said. “But the practical realities sometimes are
reason to think about options.”  A Brown University  poll  in February showed just 26 percent
of voters approved of Chafee’s job performance, the lowest
rating of any U.S. governor, according to the  New York  Times.
The Feb. 21-23 survey of 593 registered voters had a margin of
error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.  Good Alignment  “Looking at the governor’s policies and principles, they
align well with the Democratic Party,” Vareika said by
telephone. “It was not a quick decision.”  Republicans said Chafee’s move was purely political.  “Saddled with the worst approval rating of any governor
and a difficult path to re-election, Lincoln Chafee flip-flopped
again today,” Phil Cox, the executive director of the
 Republican Governors Association , said yesterday in a statement.
“This was a decision based purely on politics, not policy.”  Joining the Democratic Party won’t be enough to guarantee
Chafee gets its 2014 nomination, said  Jennifer Duffy , a senior
editor with the Cook Political Report in  Washington .  “How he proves his Democratic credentials” will be key
for the governor, Duffy said. “He needs to prove to voters he
is an honest-to-God Democrat.”  In April, Chafee signed a bill making same-sex marriage
legal -- the Brown poll showed 60 percent of voters supported
the move. Rhode Island was the last of the six New England
states to allow such weddings.  Pension Changes  Chafee also signed into law a package of pension changes in
2011 that will delay retirement for state employees and offer
them 401(k)-type savings plans that don’t provide guaranteed
benefits. Union leaders, a key constituency in the Democratic
primary, have sued to prevent the measure from taking effect.  The pension bill was authored by Rhode Island Treasurer
Gina Raimondo, a Democrat who is a likely 2014 candidate for
governor. A former venture-capital  fund manager , she had a 56
percent approval rating in the Brown poll.  Rhode Island union leaders have directed much of their
anger about the law at Raimondo, picketing outside a convention
where she gave a keynote speech in March. Chafee backed
continuing mediation between the state and public-worker unions.  Providence Mayor Angel Taveras may also challenge the
governor in the Democratic primary. The Brown poll put his
approval rating at almost 64 percent.  Chafee served in the Senate from 1999 to 2007, after he
lost the seat to a Democrat in 2006. He switched to independent
in 2007, citing the  Republican Party ’s turn to the right.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  