-- China Growth Outlook Cut by IMF as ‘Decisive’ Reforms Urged
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-29T09:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/china-growth-outlook-cut-by-imf-as-decisive-reforms-urged.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
lowered its forecasts for China’s  growth  and said making
“decisive” policy changes would put the economy on a more
sustainable path.  Expansion will be about 7.75 percent this year and next,
 David Lipton , first deputy managing director of the IMF, said
today at a press briefing in Beijing after concluding an annual
review of China. In April, the IMF forecast growth of 8 percent
this year and 8.2 percent expansion in 2014.  Lipton warned of risks from a record expansion of credit,
with the revised outlook following an unexpected slowdown in the
first quarter. Premier  Li Keqiang , who took office in March, is
planning policy changes that would open up more of the economy
to private investment and alter a household-registration system
that impedes urbanization.  “While China still has significant policy space and
financial capacity to maintain stability even in the face of
adverse shocks, the margins of safety are narrowing and a
decisive impetus to reforms is needed to contain vulnerabilities
and move the economy to a more sustainable growth path,” Lipton
said.  At the same time, Lipton said China’s current monetary and
fiscal policies are “appropriate” and the IMF isn’t suggesting
China restrict credit now.  Lipton spoke after meeting with leaders including vice
premiers  Wang Qishan  and Ma Kai, People’s Bank of China Governor
 Zhou Xiaochuan , Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  and Liu He, a vice
chairman of the National Development and Reform Commission,
according to the IMF.  Analyst Surveys  The fund’s lower forecast is in line with recent reductions
by economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The median estimate of
51 analysts this month was for 2013 growth of 7.8 percent, down
from April’s projection of 8 percent.  Lipton repeated the IMF’s view from last year that the  yuan 
is “moderately” undervalued against a basket of currencies and
said a stronger yuan over time is needed to redress the issue.
Further progress is needed on relaxing controls on  interest
rates  and the  exchange rate , he said.  China disputed the assessment last year and said the yuan
was “now close to equilibrium or, at most, slightly
undervalued,” according to the 2012 annual report.  The currency has gained about 3.5 percent against the
dollar in the past year and today weakened 0.1 percent to 6.1267
per dollar.  Credit Assurances  China has assured the IMF that reining in credit expansion
is a priority, said Lipton, the No. 2 official at the
Washington-based fund. Rapid growth in financing raises
questions over the quality of investment and the repayment
ability of companies and local governments, Lipton said.  Curbing credit expansion may slow growth in the short term
while putting the economy on a more sustainable path, Lipton
said.  Lipton called for a bigger role for market forces in the
economy, after Li said in March that cutting the government’s
power was a “self-imposed revolution,” with changes that would
“be very painful and even feel like cutting one’s wrist.”  China needs a “decisive push for rebalancing toward higher
household incomes and consumption,” Lipton said. The nation
should allow more competition in industries “currently
considered strategic” and increase dividends from state-owned
enterprises to “improve financial discipline and provide
additional fiscal revenue,” Lipton said.  The IMF also urged deepening changes to  tax policy  and a
“comprehensive re-ordering of local government finances.”
China should strengthen governance in “lower-level state or
state-related economic institutions, especially the banks,
state-owned enterprises and local governments,” Lipton said.  The fund issued last year’s full annual report on China in
July.  -- Kevin Hamlin . Editors: Scott Lanman, Rina Chandran  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  