-- China’s Stocks Rise for a Fourth Day as Carmakers Climb
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-05-29T07:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/china-s-stock-futures-rise-signaling-benchmark-index-may-gain.html
China’s stocks  rose for a fourth day,
led by consumer-discretionary companies, as improving U.S.
 consumer confidence  and home-price data boosted the outlook for
exports to the world’s biggest economy.  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104) , which has a joint venture with General
Motors Co., led gains for carmakers after Daiwa Securities Co.
said auto inventories showed healthy industry demand. FAW CAR
Co. jumped to a two-year high before its parent company starts
sales of Red Flag sedans. Poly Real Estate Group Co. rose 1.3
percent.  Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science & Technology Co. (1157)  slid
to a three-year low even after it denied falsifying sales.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.1 percent to 2,234.02
at the close. The CSI 300 Index retreated 0.1 percent to
2,642.56. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index slid 1.5
percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. climbed 1.2 percent yesterday.  “Investors think the  U.S. economy  may improve in the
second half and this could boost our exports,” Zhang Haidong,
an analyst at Tebon Securities Co., said by phone from  Shanghai .
“Investors are rotating their investment into blue chips.”  The U.S. Conference Board’s index of consumer sentiment
climbed to its strongest level in more than five years, while
the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
jumped 10.9 percent in the 12 months through March, the most
since April 2006. The U.S. is China’s second-largest export
market, making up about 17 percent of the nation’s overseas
shipments, according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  China Outlook  The Shanghai  index  has rebounded 6.9 percent from this
year’s low set on May 2 after interest-rate cuts by central
banks around the world spurred capital inflows and Chinese
policymakers accelerated reforms of the economy by allowing
private investment in industries such as telecommunications.  “Decisive” policy changes would put  China’s economy  on a
more sustainable path, the  International Monetary Fund  said
today as it lowered its forecasts for the nation’s economic
growth. Expansion will be 7.75 percent this year and next,  David
Lipton , first deputy managing director of the IMF, said today in
Beijing. In April, the IMF forecast growth of 8 percent this
year and 8.2 percent expansion in 2014.  SAIC, the biggest Chinese automaker, jumped 2.1 percent to
15.90 yuan. Great Wall Motor Co. added 1.4 percent to 38.20
yuan. China’s April auto inventory of 1.68 months announced by
the China Automobile Dealers Association shows the demand and
supply relationship is healthy, Jeff Chung, a Daiwa analyst,
wrote in a report.  Automakers Drop  FAW rallied 7.7 percent to 15.46 yuan, the highest close
since April 26, 2011. China FAW Group Corp., which built the
first Hongqi brand for Chairman  Mao Zedong  in 1958, will hold an
event tomorrow evening to mark the start of retail sales,
according to Fan Xiaojing, a marketing executive with the state-owned automaker.  The Shanghai Composite trades at 9.5 times 12-month
estimated earnings, compared with a seven-year average of 15.5
times, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Trading volumes
were 31 percent above the 30-day average today, while 30-day
 volatility  was at 15.9, compared with this year’s average of
19.4, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Poly Real, the second-biggest Chinese developer, advanced
1.3 percent to 12.80 yuan, the highest close since Feb. 28. The
Shanghai property gauge trades at 8.1 times estimated profit,
compared with a five-year average of 14.28.  IPO Outlook  Zoomlion, China’s second-largest maker of construction
equipment, fell 2.5 percent to 7.11  yuan  after denying for a
second time allegations it falsified sales. The company said
yesterday an article on Sina.com saying sales were improperly
accounted for was “distorted” and “misleading.”  China will likely resume initial public offerings as early
as mid-August, the 21st Century Business Herald reported today,
citing an unidentified person close to regulator. The China
Securities Regulatory Commission suspended issuance of IPO
shares in October, as investor appetite for new stock waned amid
equity-market declines that dragged the Shanghai index to near
four-year lows.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., surged 1.6 percent, the most
in five weeks.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the world’s fourth-largest
solar module producer, jumped 10 percent while  Yingli Green
Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  advanced for a third day. Suntech Power
Holdings Co. and LDK Solar Co. rose to one-week highs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  