-- China Overnight Money Rate Falls as Cash Demand Wanes
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-05-29T09:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/china-overnight-money-rate-falls-as-month-end-cash-demand-wanes.html
(Corrects description of repurchase contracts in 2nd
paragraph.)  China ’s overnight money-market rate
fell for a second day on speculation cash supply is improving as
banks and companies cover their month-end funding needs.  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand for a three-month
bill sale planned for tomorrow, according to a trader at a
primary dealer required to bid at the auctions. The monetary
authority also asked lenders to submit orders for 28-day
repurchase contracts, which are used to drain funds, and 14-day
reverse-repurchase agreements this morning, the trader said. A
report last week showed manufacturing contracted.  “Any previous need for cash has been cleared, and given
the uncertain growth outlook, the market perception is for the
PBOC to adopt a somewhat neutral stance, instead of aggressive
tightening in the near term,” said  Frances Cheung , a strategist
at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong .  The  one-day  repurchase rate, a gauge of funding
availability, fell 30 basis points, or 0.30 percentage point, to
3.04 percent as of 10:20 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to the
National Interbank Funding Center.  The central bank added a net 128 billion  yuan  ($20.9
billion) to the financial system last week, the biggest
injection since the period ended Feb. 8, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  China’s manufacturing probably contracted in May for the
first time in seven months, according to data last week from
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. The  Purchasing Managers ’
Index showed a preliminary reading of 49.6, compared with a
final 50.4 for April. A level of 50 or above signals expansion.  The seven-day repo rate rose nine basis points to 3.63
percent after declining as much as 40 basis points earlier. The
one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, was unchanged at 3.27 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  