-- Christie Says Rutgers Athletic Chief Hiring ‘Not My Call’
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-05-29T00:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/christie-says-rutgers-athletic-director-s-future-not-my-call-.html
New Jersey  Governor Chris Christie
said he won’t interfere with the hiring of Julie Hermann,
accused of verbal abuse as a volleyball coach 16 years ago, to
take over as  Rutgers University ’s athletic director.  “My job is not to run Rutgers,” Christie said yesterday
in his monthly “Ask the Governor” show on WKXW-FM in Ewing,
New Jersey. He said he had “absolute confidence” in President
Robert Barchi and the state university’s board of governors to
decide personnel issues. Hermann’s future is “not my call,”
Christie said.  The 49-year-old Hermann was hired May 15 to run athletics
at New Brunswick-based Rutgers, the flagship state school with
58,000 students, as it finishes the biggest public-university
merger in U.S. history and prepares its football program for a
2014 debut in the Big 10, among the most prestigious U.S.
intercollegiate conferences.  Hermann replaces Tim Pernetti, who resigned after ESPN
aired video of Rutgers men’s basketball coach Mike Rice verbally
and physically abusing players. In 1997, University of  Tennessee 
women’s volleyball team members wrote to school officials
accusing Hermann, their coach, of “mental cruelty,” according
to a May 25 report in the Star-Ledger newspaper of  Newark , New
Jersey.  Reported Letter  At Tennessee, Hermann referred to players as “whores,
alcoholics and learning disabled,” according to the Star-Ledger. Hermann said May 27 in a statement that she had worked
to ensure that players were treated with respect and dignity,
and was “never notified of the reported letter outlining the
concerns of some former athletes.”  Hermann spent the past 16 seasons in athletic
administration at the  University of Louisville .  Rutgers, the eighth-oldest U.S. college, has a July 1
deadline to complete what Christie has called the biggest
public-university merger. The school, when integrated with the
University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, will have an
annual budget of $3 billion.  More Notice  Rutgers also is seeking more notice for athletics, and is
set to start participating in Big Ten football starting in 2014,
the result of a new focus on sports that included a $102 million
stadium renovation. The athletic director will oversee Rutgers’
Big Ten transition.  Last month ESPN aired video showing men’s basketball coach
Rice hurling basketballs at his players and shouting obscenities
and gay slurs at them. Rice was fired, Pernetti resigned and
Barchi, former provost of the  University of Pennsylvania ,
weathered calls from faculty members and some lawmakers to step
down.  Barchi, the school’s 20th president, has set about
implementing Christie’s directive to reorganize New Jersey’s
higher-education system. In a statement on the Hermann matter,
he said, “We remain confident that we have selected an
individual who will work in the best interests of all of our
student athletes, our athletics teams and the university.”  Hermann was among 63 people considered by a search
committee and she “swiftly stood out as a leading candidate,”
said Barchi, adding that she was screened by executive search
and private-security firms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  