-- Cisco to Buy JouleX for $107 Mln Adding Energy Software
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-05-29T20:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/cisco-to-buy-joulex-for-107-mln-adding-energy-software.html
  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the biggest
maker of networking equipment, agreed to acquire JouleX for $107
million, gaining software that helps companies manage power
usage as mobile devices spur a surge in data traffic.  The transaction, which includes cash and retention-based
incentives, is expected to close in the fiscal fourth quarter,
San Jose, California-based Cisco said today in a statement.  Cisco Chief Executive Officer John Chambers is stepping up
investments in data networks to help accommodate users who are
increasingly relying on smartphones and tablets to watch video
and surf the Web. Adding JouleX’s programs and services for
managing energy-consumption over corporate networks will help
Cisco diversify beyond hardware, where growth is slowing.  “They want to lessen their reliance on things that they
can sell just one time, like hardware, and things where margins
are going down, like hardware,” said Michael Genovese, an
analyst at MKM Partners in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “They want to
increase their reliance on things that they can charge customers
on a recurring basis for, and this is right in line with that.”  Cisco’s shares rose 1 percent to $24.12 at the close in New
York. The  stock  has gained 23 percent this year, compared with a
16 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  JouleX is the latest in a series of acquisitions Chambers
has announced as he works to bolster the company’s core business
of routers and switches for large companies and
telecommunications carriers.  Last month, Cisco agreed to buy U.K. networking company
Ubiquisys for about $310 million, gaining technology that helps
wireless carriers provide better service to smartphone and
tablet users. The transaction followed purchases in recent
months of Intucell Ltd. for $475 million and Meraki Inc. for
$1.2 billion.  In March of last year, Cisco agreed to buy NDS Group Ltd.
for about $5 billion to tap demand for technologies that deliver
and protect pay-TV content.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  