-- CME Group Puts Nymex Building in Manhattan Up for Sale
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-05-29T20:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/cme-group-puts-nymex-building-in-manhattan-up-for-sale.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures exchange, hired real estate brokers to sell its 16-story
New York Mercantile Exchange tower, with plans to potentially
lease back a portion of the building and its trading floor.  CME Group may also consider relocating the exchange to
another property in  lower  Manhattan , according to a statement
today from the Chicago-based company. It will continue operating
the Nymex trading floor in New York regardless of a sale.  CME Group is selling real estate as electronic trading
grows more popular and it seeks to focus on its derivatives
business. The company sold two of the three buildings that
comprise the Chicago Board of Trade complex last year for $151.5
million and leased back the space that it occupies in the
properties. About 88 percent of the contracts traded on CME
Group’s exchanges did so electronically in March, matching the
record it set last year for computer-based buying and selling.  “We currently don’t use all the office space in the
building,” Damon Leavell, a CME Group spokesman, said in a
telephone interview. “We are still committed to maintaining the
floor and open-outcry trading.”  CME Group  rose  3.3 percent to $67.62 in New York today, the
second-biggest  gain  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 index. The
stock has risen 28 percent in the past year.  The company hired Newmark Grubb Knight Frank to market the
Nymex property. Holly Duran Real Estate Partners LLC is advising
the company.  CME Group acquired the New York tower, along with the
exchange, in 2008. It owns the building on a ground lease from
New York’s Battery Park City Authority that expires in June
2069.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  