-- Colombia Peso Rebound Seen on Dollar Buying End: Market Reversal
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-05-29T18:52:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/colombia-peso-rebound-seen-on-dollar-buying-end-market-reversal.html
Colombia ’s peso is poised to rebound
from its biggest tumble in a year as policy makers consider
whether to extend a dollar purchase program that ends this
month, trading patterns show.  The 14-day relative strength index of the  exchange rate 
rose yesterday to 83.3, the highest since September 2011, as the
peso tumbled 3.1 percent against the dollar in two weeks, the
most of any South American currency tracked by Bloomberg. A
level above 70 implies an imminent reversal. The currency broke
through 1,900 per dollar yesterday for the first time in 16
months, prompting Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas to declare
the depreciation “a great achievement.”  Colombia’s central bank has bought at least $30 million of
U.S. dollars a day since Jan. 28, helping to weaken the peso 6.2
percent, and sold 8 trillion pesos ($4.2 billion) of its 10
trillion peso allowance of bonds to mop up extra local currency.
The dollar purchase program is scheduled to end on May 31 and
policy makers will decide whether to extend, reduce or halt the
intervention.  “If they don’t extend, or do it for less time, we could
get some correction to the move we’ve had in the last few
days,” said  Camilo Perez , chief economist at Banco de Bogota,
the nation’s second-biggest bank. “The probability they don’t
extend is high, it would be perfectly reasonable not to, and the
technicals suggest the market is vulnerable.”  Limited Period  Banco de Bogota expects the central bank will decide to
extend the purchases for a limited time period, Perez said.
Policy makers can only sell a further 2 trillion pesos of bonds
to sterilize its intervention and the currency is below where it
was when the bank last announced dollar purchases in January, he
said.  The peso rose today, gaining 0.3 percent to 1,892.40 per
dollar as of 1:44 p.m. in Bogota, ending an eight-session losing
streak. It slid as far as 1,902.67 yesterday. The currency has
closed weaker than its 20-day Bollinger band for the last five
sessions, indicating it is due for a reversal.  Bollinger bands, developed by  John Bollinger  in the 1980s,
are used by technical analysts to identify the turning point in
an asset’s trajectory.  The recent drop in the peso has spurred speculation that
the central bank may suspend its intervention, according to
Alejandro Cuadrado, a strategist at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA)  in  New York .  “There’s talk already about the end of the central bank
intervention,” he said. “Our base case is still for three
months, but I’d be really surprised if they did more and they
could stop. People are moving towards no renewal.”  Best Performance  The peso appreciated 16 percent in the three years through
the end of 2012, the best performance among the 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as army victories over
guerrillas opened up swaths of countryside to overseas
investment in mining and oil and bolstered  consumer confidence .
Foreign direct investment reached a record $16.7 billion last
year.  The government has repeatedly tried to weaken the peso,
arguing that its strength is hurting Colombia’s industry and
agriculture by making exports uncompetitive. President  Juan
Manuel Santos  said as recently as April 15 that 1,900 per dollar
marks the equilibrium for the currency. The same month, Finance
Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said changes to pension fund rules
would boost demand for dollars by about $4 billion this year.  He called a strong currency the “mother of all problems”
on May 17 after data showed  industrial output  fell 11.5 percent
in the 12 months through March even as the central bank lowered
the benchmark  interest rate  to 3.25 percent, the lowest level in
two years. The economy expanded 3.1 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in the Andes
region.  ‘Great Achievement’  “We’re not going to sit with our arms crossed, but we
think it’s a great achievement to be at 1,900 per dollar,”
Cardenas told reporters in Bogota yesterday after the markets
closed.  The currency has dropped 6.7 percent this year, the worst
performer among emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
after the South African rand’s 14 percent tumble.  “This is what the market calls the ‘Cardenas rate,’ the
rate he has mentioned since the beginning of the year,” said
 Diego Donadio , a strategist at BNP Paribas SA in  Sao Paulo .
“We’re there.”  Donadio on May 28 took profits on the recommendation he had
to bet on the peso falling against the dollar because of the
possibility the central bank stops buying U.S. currency.  Options Premium  The premium for three-month options granting the right to
sell the peso against the U.S. dollar relative to those allowing
for purchases was 2.86 percentage points yesterday, up from 1.99
percentage points at the end of April, 25-delta risk reversal
rates show. A so-called Z-score of 3.7, the highest among 30
most-traded currencies, means the premium is more than three
units of standard deviation from the 20-day average.  In these and other forms of technical analysis, investors
and analysts study charts of trading patterns and prices to
predict changes in a currency, security or index.  “The government is happy with the peso at this level and
one assumes so is the central bank,” said Jorge Cardozo, an
analyst at Corredores Asociados brokerage in Bogota who expects
a suspension of dollar buying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  