-- Commerzbank Completes Share Sale as S&P Warns on Lending
-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 2013-05-29T13:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/commerzbank-completes-share-sale-as-s-p-warns-on-lending.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) , the German bank that
got a 18.2 billion-euro ($23.5 billion) state bailout, completed
its fifth capital increase in four years, the day after  Standard
& Poor’s  cut its  credit rating , warning of risky lending.  Shareholders took up 99.7 percent of subscription rights in
the 2.5 billion-euro share sale held between May 15 and May 28,
when 555.6 million new shares were issued, Frankfurt-based
Commerzbank said in an e-mailed statement today.  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  asked investors to
buy the stock as part of a plan to return to profit and repay
debt to the government. S&P lowered Commerzbank’s long-term
credit rating to A- from A, saying economic conditions had left
the firm vulnerable to “high-risk lending concentrations,”
particularly in shipping and property.  Germany ’s second-largest bank will use the funds it raised
in the share sale to repay 1.6 billion euros to the government’s
bank rescue fund and 750 million euros to insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
redeeming silent participations issued during the rescue,
Commerzbank said. The government’s stake has declined to 17
percent during the capital increase, it said.  The bank’s capital adequacy ratio under full Basel III
banking rules, a key measure of financial strength, increased to
8.4 percent from 7.5 percent as a result of the repayments,
Commerzbank said.  Blessing, who handed the government a 25 percent stake in
the 2009 bailout, is also eliminating staff and winding down
real estate and shipping assets to help turn the company around.  Shares Fall  Commerzbank shares fell 0.4 percent to 7.97 euros at 1:45
p.m. in  Frankfurt , paring earlier losses of as much as 2.4
percent. The stock has dropped 26 percent this year compared
with a gain of 9.2 percent for the Bloomberg Europe Banks &
Financial Services Index.  Six of 34 analysts are recommending clients buy
Commerzbank’s shares,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. The
average 12-month price estimate among the analysts was 8.24
euros a share, 3 percent more than yesterday’s closing price.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered its rating to Baa1 last
month, one step lower than S&P, citing weak earnings power.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Amott in London at 
 jamott@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Bentley in Frankfurt at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  