-- Companies Can Tie Worker Health Premium Cost to Wellness
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-05-29T20:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/companies-can-tie-worker-health-premium-cost-to-wellness.html
Businesses in the U.S. won more
freedom to charge higher insurance premiums to workers who don’t
meet health goals, or reward those who shape up, under  rules 
released by the Obama administration.  Three years in the making, the regulations also require
employers to offer a “reasonable alternative” for workers who
can’t meet standards on weight, cholesterol or other measures,
the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services said today in a
 statement . That’s meant to protect employees from
discrimination, although the agency rejected calls by consumer
groups that companies provide medical evidence for claims that
wellness programs improve health.  “The final rules support workplace health promotion and
prevention,” the department said, “while ensuring that
individuals are protected from unfair underwriting.”  Conditions such as obesity and diabetes account for three-quarters of U.S. health spending, and wellness programs have
been gaining in popularity as businesses grapple with rising
costs. The regulations, mandated by the 2010 health-care law,
let employers charge workers as much as 30 percent of their
medical-plan premiums if they fail to meet goals, an increase
from the current 20 percent. The rules take effect Jan. 1.  Incentive Programs  Almost half of U.S. companies with more than 200 employees
now have wellness programs, according to the  Kaiser Family
Foundation , a nonprofit health research group based in  Menlo
Park ,  California . The incentives can be tied to activities such
as joining a gym or getting a blood-pressure test or specific
targets such as body-mass index.  While the administration eased some proposals, the
regulations will still complicate wellness efforts, said Helen Darling, president of the National Business Group on Health. The
Washington-based nonprofit represents large employers including
 Dell Inc. (DELL) , American Express Co. and  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)   The rules give workers more leeway to seek changes in
wellness targets they can’t meet due to health conditions and to
have their doctors suggest alternative measures. There’s a
danger that could tie up employers in protracted negotiations
over health goals, Darling said in a telephone interview.  “The more you put in terms of requirements and the more
risk you make for employers, the more likely they are to say,
‘we don’t need this hassle,’” she said. “It’s making a lot
more work for employers, and therefore, more expense.”  Consumer Protections  Families USA, a Washington-based consumer group, welcomed
the consumer protections.  “These rules will help ensure that wellness programs are
designed to actually promote wellness, and that they are not
just used as a backdoor way to shift health care costs to those
struggling with health problems,” said  Ron Pollack , the group’s
executive director, in a statement.  The health agency today also released a  study  of workplace
wellness efforts, also mandated by the health-care law. The
report by the Rand Corp. found small yet promising changes in
worker behavior and costs from programs at 600 businesses.  The measures “can reduce risk factors, such as smoking and
increase healthy behaviors, such as exercise,” the  Santa
Monica , California-based research institute said in the report.
Its analysis “confirms that workplace wellness programs can
help contain the current epidemic of lifestyle-related
diseases.”  The move to tie workers’ costs to their health is being
examined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to
see whether such programs violate anti-discrimination laws. And
California’s legislature is considering a bill that would bar
linking financial rewards to a worker’s health status.  While some studies suggest $3 or more is saved for every $1
spent on wellness programs, the gains may come from shifting
costs to less-healthy employees rather than changing behavior,
according to a March analysis in Health Affairs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  