-- Confidence in U.S. Consumer Stocks Seen at UBS: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-05-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/confidence-in-u-s-consumer-stocks-seen-at-ubs-chart-of-the-day.html
Favoring “the consumer economy”
will provide more of a payoff for investors than anticipating
that business spending will bounce back, according to  Jonathan Golub , chief U.S. equity strategist at UBS AG.  As the CHART OF THE DAY illustrates, Golub’s outlook is in
keeping with the performance of industry groups in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index during the current bull market.  The consumer-discretionary index, which spans auto and
apparel makers, homebuilders, media companies, restaurants and
retailers, is the top performer among the S&P 500’s 10 broadest
industry groups since stocks began climbing in March 2009. It’s
also beating the S&P 500 this year, unlike similar gauges of
industrial and technology companies, which depend mainly on
corporate demand.  “The strength of the consumer will have a positive impact
on a host of industries,” Golub, based in New York, wrote in a
report yesterday. “On the corporate side, businesses remain
hesitant to put cash to work.”  Consumers were more confident last month than at any other
time since February 2008, according to data that the Conference
Board released yesterday. The increase contrasted with a slump
in sentiment among business leaders, based on a May survey by
Chief Executive magazine.  Investors ought to be more heavily invested in consumer-discretionary stocks than their weighting in the S&P 500 would
suggest, Golub wrote. They were 12 percent of the index’s value
as of yesterday, compared with 10 percent for industrial stocks
and 18 percent for technology, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. He was neutral on the latter two groups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  