-- Constancio Says ECB Far From Decision on Negative Deposit Rate
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-05-29T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/constancio-says-ecb-far-from-decision-on-negative-deposit-rate.html
European Central Bank Vice President
Vitor Constancio comments on negative deposit rates, asset-backed securities and financial stability.  He made the remarks in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in  Frankfurt  after presenting the ECB’s twice-annual
Financial Stability Review.  On a negative deposit rate:  “Banks will of course react to any such measure. It’s a
measure which is very difficult to assess the potential effect
of. Certainly there will be contradictory effects of that
measure. It could increase the use of liquidity positions to
lend, to have active operations an not just being passive. But
we have seen in the Danish experience, one of the reactions was
to, for a while, increase loan rates to offset. That of course
goes into the other direction. There are many effects in
different directions. It’s something that we are analyzing, as
has been explained by President Draghi several times. But
certainly no decision has been taken, we are far away from any
decision.”  On a potential ABS-purchase program:  “The potential is reduced because if you look around and
see the size of this market it’s very small indeed. Whatever
could be done would not be extremely significant. It’s something
that’s in the menu of things but I wouldn’t attribute a big
importance. The public debate on that has been a bit
overblown.”  On financial stability:  “Certainly the situation has improved in general in
financial markets and that helps the banking sector. But it is
true that in the Financial Stability Review we have expressed
our concerns with some aspects and situations of the banking
sector, starting with the profitability prospects in view of the
weak growth that we now have in  Europe . Non-performing loans are
increasing as a result of it. So the general assessment in our
Financial Stability Review is that financial stability has
improved but still remains fragile due to weak growth and some
bank vulnerabilities.”  On common resolution:  “There are certainly transitional arrangements that can be
devised. If a bank attains a point of non-viability it has to
deliver the bank to the national authority. It has to be
resolved in that context. The difficulty is with cross border
banks. If we talk about national banks, it’s one national
authority. We would like to have a European wall to deal with
these situations. We can live during a certain period of time
without them but I hope a solution will come.”  European Union Commissioner  Michel Barnier  said that “the
commission is working and intends to present a solution that
won’t need a treaty change and won’t just be a coordinating
entity. It was an important message coming from the
commission.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  