-- Copper Users Squeezed as Glut Clogs Warehouse Lines: Commodities
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n ,   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-05-30T18:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/copper-users-squeezed-as-glut-clogs-warehouse-lines-commodities.html
At a time when  copper stockpiles  are
rising to the highest in a decade, manufacturers are paying the
biggest premiums for the metal in as much as seven years as
financing deals lock up supply and extend lines at warehouses.  While inventories tracked by the  London  Metal Exchange more
than doubled in the past year and supplies exceed demand for the
first time since 2009, getting copper is becoming more expensive
and taking longer. Buyers in  Shanghai  pay $135 a metric ton more
than LME futures, up from $55 last year, Metal Bulletin data
show. Luvata  Malaysia  Bhd., a circuit-board parts maker, stopped
buying from local LME stockpiles after waiting times rose to
three months from three days at the start of 2012.  Manufacturers may not be reaping all the benefits of the 28
percent slump in prices since they reached a record two years
ago because the financing accords are curbing access to metal.
As much as 30 percent of LME-tracked reserves are tied up in the
agreements, Societe Generale SA estimates. About 84 percent of
stockpiles are now concentrated in three locations, lengthening
lines just as supply from mines is constrained by disruptions
including port strikes in  Chile  and a landslide in  Utah .  “Premiums are up, and they’re up substantially,” said
Rodney Kent, chief executive officer of Camden, New York-based
 International Wire Group Holdings Inc. (ITWG) , which had sales of $734
million last year. “You used to be able to clear an order and
get an off-take in a matter of days, and now it can be a matter
of months.”  Bear Market  Copper for delivery in three months, the  LME’s benchmark ,
fell 7.7 percent to $7,317 a ton this year, entering a bear
market in April. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. expects a decline to
$7,000 in 12 months. The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI (SPGSCI)  gauge of 24
commodities dropped 3.7 percent since the start of January as
the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities rose 9.6 percent. A
Bank of America Corp. index shows Treasuries lost 1 percent.  Global output will rise 4.3 percent to 21.1 million tons
this year as demand expands 2.2 percent to 20.9 million tons,
Standard Bank Group Ltd. estimates. Supply fell short of
consumption in each of the previous three years, according to
data from the Lisbon-based International Copper Study Group.  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Trafigura Beheer BV bought storage companies in 2010, with
the acquisitions meaning that they now control more than half of
the 700-plus sheds in the LME’s network. Stockpiles tracked by
the bourse rose 91 percent to 611,125 tons this year, of which
514,100 tons were held in New Orleans, the Belgian port of
Antwerp and Johor, Malaysia.  Borrowing Costs  The three locations stored about 25 percent of LME
inventory a year ago. Combined stockpiles excluding New Orleans,
Johor and Antwerp are at the lowest since August 2007,
compounding the supply crunch for consumers.  Financing typically involves the purchase of metal for
nearby delivery and a forward sale to take advantage of a market
in contango, where prices rise into the future. The transactions
are being helped by record-low borrowing costs after central
banks cut interest rates to boost economic growth. Three-month
copper is about $30 more expensive than metal for immediate
delivery, compared with an average discount of $5.44 last year.  Orders to  withdraw metal  from warehouses rose more than
fourfold this year, prolonging waiting times. Assuming that all
copper in New Orleans is held by one storage company, it would
take at least five months to get metal out, from about two weeks
a year ago, according to Macquarie Group Ltd.  Wire Group  Most manufacturers get metal on long-term contracts with
suppliers, using LME warehouses to buy metal if needed, said
 Robin Bhar , an analyst at Societe Generale in London. Luvata
Malaysia uses about 30,000 tons a year, and until 2012, 90
percent came direct from annual contracts, said Michael Nordgren, the managing director of the local unit of Brentford,
England-based Luvata.  Nexans SA (NEX) , the Paris-based cable maker
that buys 450,000 tons annually, says it gets less than 2
percent from the spot market.  The  premium in the U.S.  jumped 52 percent in the past year
to $176, the highest since 2007, while in Europe it rose 60
percent to $120, the most since 2006, according to data from
Metal Bulletin. International Wire Group has seen premiums climb
about 25 percent in the past year and the LME’s  warehousing
system  isn’t working for consumers, said Kent.  Minimum Amount  Premiums were further boosted by supply disruptions such as
a landslide in April at the Bingham Canyon mine in Utah and port
strikes in Chile, the largest producer. Sterlite Industries
( India ) Ltd. was ordered in March to shut its copper smelter in
south India following a gas leak and Phoenix, Arizona-based
 Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  halted production at its
mine in  Indonesia  in May after a tunnel collapsed.  The LME, bought last year by Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing
Ltd. for $2.2 billion, has sought to ease the congestion by
raising the minimum amount that must be delivered by those with
the biggest stockpiles. The bourse also added an extra minimum
delivery last month for warehouses where orders to withdraw
metal exceed a certain threshold.  Warehousing policy is always being reviewed and the LME is
monitoring the impact of the changes, Miriam Heywood, a bourse
spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail. Officials from Goldman Sachs,
Glencore Xstrata, JPMorgan and Trafigura declined to comment.  The LME has no control over who owns storage companies and
the lines at sheds aren’t being formed by those seeking physical
supply, Diarmuid O’Hegarty, the bourse’s chief operating
officer, told a conference this month in Amsterdam. The
exchange’s primary role is as a venue for price setting, not a
market of last resort for consumers needing metal, he said.  Storage Charges  Rising premiums, stockpiles and extended waiting times are
also features of the aluminum and zinc markets. Societe Generale
SA estimates that as much as 80 percent of  aluminum inventory 
tracked by the LME, as much as 60 percent of zinc and as much as
50 percent of nickel are tied up in financing agreements.  The expansion in copper stockpiles is most notable in
Johor, where sheds now hold 204,500 tons, from 1,425 tons a year
ago. Warehouse operators offered incentives to move metal to the
port, enticing a flow of cargoes from  China , said Sijin Cheng,
an analyst at Barclays Plc in  Singapore . Daily storage charges
are as much as 44 cents a ton, according to the LME, which gets
1.1 percent of the fees.  A group of industrial copper users wrote to the LME in
April urging the exchange to ease the congestion. The group,
including Southwire Co. and  Encore Wire Corp. (WIRE) , the two biggest
U.S. makers of electrical building wire and cable, is seeking to
resolve the issue without legal action, said Robert Bernstein, a
partner at New York-based Eaton & Van Winkle LLP, the legal firm
representing the companies.  “The main casualties will be the consumers,” said Societe
Generale’s Bhar, who’s covered metals markets for about a
quarter of a century. “Historically, higher stocks, higher
supply would result in lower premiums. But we have circumvented
the normal laws of economics.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  