-- Corporate Interest Deduction Proves Sacred Amid Reformers: Taxes
-- B y   M a r c   H e l l e r
-- 2013-05-29T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/corporate-interest-deduction-proves-sacred-amid-reformers-taxes.html
A newly formed coalition of
businesses is stepping up efforts to protect interest deductions
as  tax reform  advances in Congress.  Interest on debt has been fully deductible for 100 years --
encouraging factory expansions and hiring for new initiatives,
and fueling a spate of private equity takeovers. The deductions
totaled more than $8.5 trillion in a decade by one estimate. As
part of tax reform and discussions about the  U.S. debt , both
Democratic and Republican lawmakers are calling for limits.  A group of businesses in industries from real estate
development and housing to finance started last week to push
back, Bloomberg BNA reported. The BUILD Coalition, an acronym
for Businesses United for Interest and Loan Deductibility, says
capping the deduction may damp willingness to borrow for capital
improvements or other expenses.  “Any limitation to interest deductibility will only serve
to raise costs on growing businesses and slow job growth,” said
Jeffrey D. DeBoer, chief executive officer of the Real Estate
Roundtable, a member of the new group.  By deducting interest expenses, companies can reduce the
amount of income that’s available to be taxed. That makes
borrowing a more attractive option for businesses to finance
operations or capital investments. In turn, additional borrowing
supports the $5.9 trillion market for dollar-denominated
corporate debt by supplying investors with interest-bearing
securities. In 2013,  JPMorgan Chase (JPM)  & Co. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  lead
borrowers in dollar-denominated bonds.  Investment firms such as  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , KKR & Co. and
 Carlyle Group (CG)  LP use interest deductions as a cornerstone of
their private-equity business model. Leveraged buyouts use a
combination of cash, also known as equity, and borrowed money to
fund a corporate takeover.  Proposed Caps  The Obama administration in February 2012 proposed limits
on deductibility as part of a framework for tax reform, saying a
scaled-back deduction could help toward a lower overall
corporate  tax rate .  The deductions totaled $422.7 billion in 2009, according to
a December report from Tax Notes. Between 2000 and ’09, non-financial company deductions reached $5.7 trillion and financial
firms deducted $2.8 trillion.  The authors of the Tax Notes study, Robert Pozen and Lucas
Goodman, said that a 65 percent deduction cap for non-financial
firms could pay for lowering the corporate tax rate to 25
percent from 35 percent.  Vulnerable Now  Robert Terra, a spokesman for the BUILD Coalition, told BNA
that several legislative moves in the past two years suggest
interest deductibility is vulnerable.  In Congress, Republican Senator  Rob Portman  from  Ohio  in
2012 proposed limits on corporate interest deductibility.
Representative Devin Nunes, a Republican from  California , has
proposed eliminating the interest deduction and imposing a
 consumption tax  on businesses instead.  Senators  Ron Wyden , a Democrat from  Oregon , and  Dan Coats ,
a Republican from  Indiana , proposed legislation in 2011 to cut
the value of inflation from the deduction, among other
provisions for broad tax reform.  “Cutting the value of this tax deduction will reduce a
company’s financial incentive to take on debt,” the senators
said in a 2011 news release.  Nunes, who was chairman of the House Ways and Means
Committee’s tax reform working group on international taxes, and
other congressional critics say the deduction favors
accumulation of debt over equity.  Debt’s Role  In April, the Organization for International Investment --
which represents foreign-owned companies doing business in the
U.S. -- wrote to the working group, urging lawmakers to preserve
the interest deduction.  “The longstanding ability to deduct interest as an
ordinary business expense is directly linked to critical
economic activities and provides essential flexibility in a
company’s capital structure,” the group wrote. “Debt finance
plays an important role in facilitating investments by all types
of U.S. companies -- including those headquartered abroad.”  Members of the coalition include the National Association
of Development Companies, Small Business Entrepreneurship
Council, Real Estate Roundtable, Private Equity Growth Capital
Council, Expedia, National Association of Homebuilders and the
National Multi-Housing Council. Terra said the organization
expects to expand as the issue gains visibility.  Leaders of the congressional tax-writing committees have
said they intend to press ahead with tax reform in 2013 and
consider it their top priority even amid inquiries into the
 Internal Revenue Service ’s practices with applications for tax-exempt status from some small-government groups.  Doing Business  “Interest is a normal cost of doing business and is often
used to finance day-to-day operations and fundamental business
activities like meeting payroll, buying raw materials, making
 capital expenditures , and building new facilities that allow
firms to expand and help the economy grow,” DeBoer said in a
statement last week.  The Private Equity Growth Capital Council, the industry’s
chief lobbyist, released an Ernst & Young  report  last year that
argued a reduction of the corporate tax rate funded by limiting
deductibility of interest would increase the marginal tax rate
by 6.7 percent, to 33.1 percent from 31 percent.  Private-equity firms, which on average funded their
takeovers of companies last year using half cash and half debt,
would see their costs soar if the tax deduction on interest is
limited or eliminated. The cash tax rate is typically 5 to 10
percentage points lower for a private equity-backed company than
for a similar private company, according to Brad Badertscher, an
accounting professor at the University of  Notre Dame  in Indiana
who researches the topic.  Carlyle’s Risks  Carlyle, the world’s second-biggest buyout firm, said in
March that the administration’s tax framework reflects Obama’s
attempts to “change the tax law in ways that could be adverse
to us.” Limiting the tax deductibility of interest would reduce
the amount of cash it can distribute to investors, the firm
said.  The change “could also increase the effective cost of
financing by companies in which we invest, which could reduce
the value of our carried interest,” Washington-based Carlyle
said in the March 14 filing with regulators, referring to the
share of profits it keeps for itself after monetizing its deals.  Still, some executives don’t expect a change any time soon.
 Tony James , president of Blackstone, the largest private-equity
firm, said this month that he doesn’t see much risk specific to
the industry from “the whole tax thing,” which he referred to
as a lot of talk.  David Rubenstein , Carlyle’s co-CEO, said this
month on a conference call with investors that he doesn’t expect
tax reform in the near term.  Though, he said: “At some point in our lifetime, those
issues might get faced by Congress.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  