-- Courts Asia May Seek Acquisitions on Plans to Add New Markets
-- B y   K e n n e t h   F o o
-- 2013-05-29T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/courts-asia-may-seek-acquisitions-on-plans-to-add-new-markets.html
Courts Asia Ltd. (COURTS) ,  Singapore ’s biggest
electronics and furniture retailer, may seek acquisitions and
add new markets after opening its largest store in Indonesia
next year.  The company is counting on its big-box strategy of building
standalone stores to boost growth, Chief Executive Officer Terry O’Connor said in an interview in Singapore yesterday. It has 72
outlets in Singapore and  Malaysia , and plans to open a 140,000-square-foot retail center in Indonesia next year, its first in
the country.  “A fourth market is definitely something we’re interested
in,” O’Connor said. “We like  Philippines . We also like
 Vietnam , which has recovered and coming back up.”  A rising middle class, or those with disposable income of
$3,000 a year, is powering spending in  Southeast Asia , according
to CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets. Most of the region’s 600 million
people -- the combined population of the U.S., Germany and
Brazil -- will be middle class by 2020, according to Bain & Co.  Courts Asia’s S$125 million ($99 million) bond sale last
month will help the company expand over the next three years
“with confidence,” O’Connor said.  “We’ve strengthened our war chest,” he said. “If M&A
opportunities come up on the medium-term horizon, access to
capital makes these a reality.”  New locations will only be added after the opening of its
Indonesian outlet in eastern Jakarta in early 2014, he said.  Indonesia’s Growth  Record low interest rates, soaring stock prices and rising
prosperity are boosting consumers’ ability and willingness to
spend in Indonesia, said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a Singapore-based
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “The domestic consumption story will be an attractive
one” for retailers, he said. “The numbers don’t lie. You have
over 200 million people driving more than half of GDP.”  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  climbed 20 percent this year,
the best performer among the 10 biggest stock markets in Asia
excluding Japan.  India will be a longer-term prospect, O’Connor said, as the
market is dominated by single-brand retailers rather than
companies like Courts Asia that sell products from different
manufacturers.  The  stock  slumped a record 7.1 percent to S$1.055 at the
Singapore close yesterday after the company said fourth-quarter
profit dropped 19 percent to S$12.6 million. The decline pared
the stock’s gain this year to 22 percent, compared with the 6.3
percent advance in the Singapore benchmark  Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)   The company will add two stores in Singapore by the end of
the year, and will open its first big-box outlet in Malaysia in
August, O’Connor said.  “Such a store becomes a national draw card, offering a
broader shopping experience,” O’Connor said. “Such a strategy
also makes sense as you can build your own store far more
competitively than you can lease one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kenneth Foo in Singapore at 
 kfoo23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  