-- Czech Euro Entry in Doubt Before 2019, Central Bank Chief Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-05-29T11:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/czech-euro-entry-in-doubt-before-2019-central-bank-chief-says.html
The Czech Republic is unlikely to
adopt the euro before 2019, central bank Governor Miroslav Singer said, envisaging a longer accession process than the
country’s pro-European Union President Milos Zeman.  While the Czechs don’t have a euro-adoption target date,
the question of when to join the monetary union is gaining
prominence in political debates one year before parliamentary
elections. Prime Minister Petr Necas is refusing to set a date
for the switch and says a referendum on such a move will be
needed. The main opposition party, which leads in opinion polls,
says the next Cabinet should set a euro-entry timetable.  “Even if the elections create a political coalition of
forces seeking a quick euro-zone entry, it seems to me that they
are more likely to file the application no earlier than in
2016,” Singer said at a conference in  Prague  today.
“Therefore, the earliest entry date would be 2019,” he said,
adding the central bank has only an advisory role on the issue.  Singer has said that a flexible exchange rate is a buffer
against external economic shocks and sees no need to rush the
euro adoption. All seven members of the bank’s policy-setting
board were named by previous President Vaclav Klaus, one of the
most vocal critics of the currency union and an opponent of
closer EU integration. Zeman, who succeded Klaus in March, said
that Czechs may join the euro in five years.  After rate cuts last year brought Czech borrowing costs
near zero, policy makers put the koruna at the forefront of
their deliberations. The bank is debating whether weakening the
currency through market interventions is needed to meet the 2
percent inflation target. The koruna has lost 3.2 percent this
year, the sixth-worst performance among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg in the period.  Euro Commitment  The Czech Republic was among the eight post-communist
countries that joined the EU in 2004 and committed to adopting
the common currency after meeting the entry criteria. The group
also included  Estonia ,  Hungary ,  Latvia ,  Lithuania ,  Poland ,
Slovakia, and Slovenia.  Czech debt is below the bloc’s mandated cap of 60 percent
of economic output and the government plans to narrow the fiscal
deficit to less than the 3 percent limit this year.  In neighboring Poland, the EU’s largest eastern economy,
the debate on when and how it should adopt the euro was revived
this year after the currency region’s debt crisis eased. The 17-nation currency group needs to resolve internal issues and
Poland must be fully prepared before it scraps the zloty, Prime
Minister Donald Tusk said in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  