-- Diabetes Drug From Bristol and Astra Wins U.K. Panel’s Backing
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-05-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/diabetes-drug-from-bristol-and-astra-wins-u-k-panel-s-backing.html
Forxiga, a new diabetes treatment
from  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , won the
backing of the U.K.’s National Institute for Health and Care
Excellence for some patients in combination with older products.  The drug was recommended with either metformin, a 50-year-old medicine, or insulin, the hormone diabetics often take to
keep their blood-sugar levels in check, the agency known as NICE
said in a statement. It didn’t recommended Forxiga taken
together with metformin and the older drug sulfonylurea, except
for research purposes.  NICE said in February it needed more information about the
benefits of the drug after the companies refused to offer a
discount. The agency, which advises the state-run health system
on which treatments represent value for money, said the medicine
costs 36.59 pounds ($55.32) for 28 tablets. Final guidance on
the drug for the most common form of diabetes, known as Type 2,
will be published in June, the agency said.  The disease is “a serious problem in the U.K.” and the
treatment provides another option for patients, Carole Longson,
health technology evaluation center director at NICE, said in
the statement.  Diabetes occurs when a person’s blood sugar gets too high
and the body either doesn’t produce enough insulin or doesn’t
use it effectively to bring the level back to normal. Type 2
makes up about 90 percent of the 347 million diabetes cases
worldwide, according to the  World Health Organization .  FDA Rejection  Forxiga, also called dapagliflozin, is one of a new class
of diabetes drugs known as sodium glucose co-transporter-2, or
SGLT-2, inhibitors that flush excess sugar out of the body in
urine and are an alternative to insulin therapy. Insulin is the
hormone made by the pancreas that regulates blood sugar.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  rejected the medicine
last year, saying it needed more data about whether the benefits
outweigh an increased risk of developing bladder and breast
cancer. The pill was approved for sale in  Europe  in November.
The FDA approved a rival SGLT-2 inhibitor, canagliflozin from
Johnson & Johnson, in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  