-- Dominion Reactor Shutdown Sends U.S. Nuclear Output Lower
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-05-29T17:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/dominion-reactor-shutdown-sends-u-s-nuclear-output-lower.html
Dominion Resources Inc. (D)  shut the 973-megawatt North Anna 2 reactor in  Virginia , sending U.S.  nuclear-power production  lower for a second day.  Nationwide generation fell 1.1 percent from yesterday to
84,936 megawatts, or 83 percent of capacity, the  biggest decline 
since May 18, according to Nuclear Regulatory Commission data
compiled by Bloomberg. Output was 0.9 percent less than a  year
ago  with 13 of 104 plants offline.  North Anna 2, about 40 miles (64 kilometers) northwest of
Richmond, was manually shut yesterday because of decreasing
steam generator levels, according to a  commission filing . The
unit had been running at 98 percent of capacity. North Anna 1
was not affected.  “Procedures directed operators to manually shut down the
reactor to ensure water levels were maintained in the steam
generators,” Richard Zuercher, a company spokesman based in
Richmond, said in an e-mail.  The closing dropped Southeastern nuclear-power generation
to 28,047 megawatts, 2.9 percent less than yesterday. The
Northeast also posted a decline after Constellation Energy Group
Inc. and  Exelon (EXC)  Corp. slowed two reactors. The area’s nuclear
output slid 1.3 percent to 19,528 megawatts.  ’Abnormal Indications’  Constellation cut output to 65 percent of capacity at the
1,140-megawatt  Nine Mile Point 2 plant  in order to carry out
maintenance on a feedwater system and control rods, said Jill Lyon, a company spokeswoman based in Scriba, New York.  While the unit is operating at reduced rates, crews expect
to remove a pump from service in order to investigate abnormal
indications on a water-level control valve, she said. Lyon
declined to comment on the duration of the maintenance.  Nine Mile Point, located near Oswego, New York, operated at
full power yesterday.  Exelon’s New Jersey-based Oyster Creek 1, which has the
capacity to generate 619 megawatts, reduced power to 70 percent
of capacity while personnel make repairs to a water flow
regulator valve, said Suzanne D’Ambrosio, a plant spokeswoman.  Reactor maintenance shutdowns, usually undertaken in the
U.S. spring or fall when energy use is lowest, may increase
consumption of natural gas and coal to generate electricity. The
average refueling down time was 46 days in 2012, according to
the Nuclear Energy Institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  