-- Scalia Gives Obamacare a Big Boost
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-05-29T22:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/the-biggest-supreme-court-ruling-you-haven-t-heard-of.html
The  Supreme Court  has yet to decide
this year’s attention-grabbing cases on same-sex marriage,
affirmative action and the Voting Rights Act. But last week, a
divided court  decided  Arlington v. FCC, an important victory for
 Barack Obama ’s administration that will long define the
relationship between federal agencies and federal courts.  The underlying question was this: If a law is ambiguous,
who gets to interpret it? Federal judges or the agency that
carries it out? Who interprets the crucial ambiguities in the
Affordable Care Act, the Clean Air Act or the Wall Street Reform
and Consumer Protection Act?  The divisions within the court defied the usual ideological
predictions. In a powerful and convincing opinion by Justice
 Antonin Scalia , the court’s majority ruled that even when the
agency is deciding on the scope of its own authority, it has the
power to interpret ambiguities in the law. Scalia was joined by
Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg,  Elena Kagan ,  Sonia Sotomayor  and
 Clarence Thomas .  In an agitated dissent, Chief Justice  John Roberts , joined
by Justices Samuel Alito and  Anthony Kennedy , contended that the
courts, not the agency, must decide on the scope of the agency’s
power. (Justice  Stephen Breyer  wrote separately and only for
himself.)  The court’s ruling, which involved the Federal
Communications Commission’s defense of its rules governing
siting applications for wireless facilities, is an important win
for all future presidents, whether Republican or Democratic. It
reduces confusion and uncertainty in the law. It also
 strengthens  the hand of agencies carrying out Obama’s health-care law and financial reform.  Agencies’ Power  To understand the decision, a little background will be
helpful. For almost three decades, the court has ruled that when
Congress gives a federal agency the power to issue regulations,
that agency is usually  authorized  to interpret ambiguities in
the original legislation. Sometimes Congress speaks clearly. But
in some cases, its meaning is obscure. For example, does the
word “source” in the  Clean Air Act  mean each smokestack in a
plant or the entire plant?  The court has ruled that the agency is entitled to
interpret such ambiguities, as long as its interpretation is
reasonable. The reasoning here is that by giving rule-making
authority to agencies, Congress implicitly delegated
interpretive power to them, as well. The court has also noted
that compared with the courts, the agencies are politically
accountable and have technical expertise, so they are in the
best position to resolve ambiguities.  Why the heated  dispute  in last week’s case? For more than a
decade, judges and scholars have differed over what happens when
an agency is deciding on its own “jurisdiction,” that is, on the
scope of its own authority. Imagine that the  Food and Drug
Administration  is asserting its power over certain tobacco
products, or the  Department of Health  and Human Services is
applying an ambiguous provision of the Affordable Care Act to
certain employers, or the Federal Communications Commission is
trying to regulate some new technology. In such cases, shouldn’t
a federal court, rather than the agency, get to interpret
ambiguities?  In giving an affirmative answer, Roberts  expressed  concern
about “the authority administrative agencies now hold over our
economic, social and political activities,” and about a federal
bureaucracy that “continues to grow.” He insisted that “the
danger posed by the growing power of the administrative state
cannot be dismissed.”  Scalia’s Response  In these circumstances, Roberts argued that the court, and
not the agency, must resolve ambiguities about the scope of the
agency’s authority. Judges must “not leave it to the agency to
decide when it is in charge.”  It is a forceful argument, and Roberts made it well, but
Scalia  offered  a persuasive three-part response.  First, he invoked precedent, arguing that the court has
long followed a general principle to the effect that
“ambiguities will be resolved, within the bounds of reasonable
interpretation, not by the courts but by the administering
agency.”  Second, he contended that Roberts was quite wrong to say
that courts could identify a separate category of cases -- those
involving the scope of an agency’s authority. The question is
always whether the agency is acting within the bounds set by
Congress. “There is no principled basis for carving out some
arbitrary subset of cases,” he wrote. In his view, Roberts’
 approach , forcing lower courts to draw ad hoc lines, would make
the law unpredictable and produce chaos.  Third, Scalia insisted that the danger of agency
overreaching is to be avoided, not by an arbitrary carve-out,
but by requiring agencies to respect congressional limits on
their authority.  A striking feature of the Arlington  decision  is the
composition of the majority, with Scalia and Thomas joining
Ginsburg, Kagan and Sotomayor.  What unified the court’s two leading conservatives and
three of its more liberal justices? Scalia’s opinion reflects
his longstanding commitment to clarity in the law, a commitment
that Thomas shares. It also reflects the majority’s  belief ,
cutting across ideological divisions, that ambiguities in the
law should be resolved by officials who are ultimately
accountable to the people and likely to be experts on the issues
at hand.  Like Chief Justice Roberts, of course, many people are
nervous about the power of administrative agencies, and the
Arlington decision might well make them even more nervous. But
would they really prefer ambiguities to be resolved by federal
judges, who might have agendas of their own?  Scalia was right to identify the ultimate safeguard against
administrative power: If Congress has clearly expressed its
will, the matter is at an end. A potential benefit of the
Arlington  decision  is to offer Congress an emphatic reminder of
that fact.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley university professor
at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government.” The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 