-- The Challenge of Feeding 9 Billion People
-- B y   G r e g   P a g e
-- 2013-05-29T22:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/the-challenge-of-feeding-9-billion-people.html
America’s breadbasket, on the heels
of last year’s severe drought, abounds with predictions of
record corn and soybean harvests. The juxtaposition of the hope
for this growing season against the reality of last year should
give us reason to consider the lessons learned in 2012.  With grain stocks low,  farmers  have responded to higher
prices and planted more. Although rising commodity prices are
often viewed only as harbingers of inflation, they also motivate
farmers to produce more. “The cure for high prices,” as the
commodities-market adage goes, “is high prices.”  In late March, the U.S. Agriculture Department predicted
farmers would plant the most  corn  since 1936 -- about 97 million
acres -- and 77 million acres with soybeans, although estimates
may fall because of the slow pace of spring planting. All that
acreage is predicted to deliver a record 14 billion bushels of
corn and a near-record of more than 3 billion bushels of
soybeans. The forecasts are predicated on a return to normal
yields and moderate weather during the growing season.  We have been here before. Last year, from January through
the first week of June, the price of the most important food
crops fell 20 percent in anticipation of bountiful harvests.
Then the rains stopped. By August, corn and soybean prices in
the U.S. reached record highs in anticipation of what proved to
be the smallest corn and soybean harvests in six and nine years,
respectively.  Summer Drought  Many consequences of last summer’s drought are still
affecting agriculture and the economy.  Cattle ranchers responded to increases in feed prices by
thinning herds. By the start of this year, the U.S. cattle herd
was the smallest since 1952. Packers now have insufficient
animals to process. As a result, feed lots and packing plants
have been idled, some closed for good. The herd reduction kept
beef prices low temporarily, but prices have now begun to rise.
An Agriculture Department report shows that prices for poultry,
other meats, eggs and dairy also have increased since September
2012, while food prices in other categories have been little
changed.  Food prices  aren’t the drought’s only impact. With corn in
short supply, 20 of the country’s 211 ethanol plants halted
production. Meanwhile, low water  levels  on the Mississippi River
made shipping corn, soybeans and other commodities by barge more
expensive in late 2012 as traffic was restricted to one lane in
some areas, and barges couldn’t be loaded to capacity.  If we are going to ensure that the 9 billion people on the
planet by 2050 have access to safe, affordable and nutritious
food -- and that we can produce that food in an environmentally
responsible way -- we should learn some important lessons from
the drought of 2012. Here are four to consider.  First, free trade is essential and makes food more
affordable. Despite the severity of last year’s drought, world
food production contracted by only 1.4 percent from a year
earlier. A  dry Iowa  alone doesn’t create a world shortage. We
will produce the most food, the most efficiently, if farmers
plant the crops best suited for their regional growing
conditions, and if we trade the surpluses with one another. Food
must be able to move from times and places of surplus to times
and places of deficit.  Net Exporter  The U.S. benefited from this last year. Historically the
world’s largest net corn exporter, the U.S. will import even
more corn during the 2012-2013 crop year than  China , according
to Agriculture Department forecasts. Imported corn prevented
last year’s herd thinning from being more pronounced than it
was. Drought-related food-price increases are being mitigated
today partly because U.S. beef, pork and poultry producers used
corn from Latin America to feed their animals.  In an increasingly interconnected world, export bans,
trade-distorting tariffs and inconsistent import standards
hinder the free flow of food, worsen local shortages and
contribute to price increases. There are more than 1,300 tariff-rate quotas in agriculture and food products filed with the
World Trade Organization, including more than 100 in the
European Union on important foodstuffs such as animal protein,
rice and dairy products. All of them harm consumers.  The second lesson is that markets are better than mandates
at allocating food supplies. Commodity prices elevated by low
supplies told farmers everywhere -- not just in the U.S. -- to
plant more crops. But in times of tight supply, a mandated
diversion of a crucial crop, such as corn, into biofuel
production creates unintended consequences for food and feed
affordability in poorer countries. I believe biofuels have a
role to play, but we need policies to be more responsive to
supply and demand.  A third lesson is that we must embrace technologies that
help farmers to grow more from less. Food production must
increase at least 70 percent, by some estimates, in the next
four decades to meet population growth. Optimally we should
achieve that increase without bringing sensitive lands into
production, by reducing greenhouse-gas emissions, and by using
less water and fewer chemicals. This is possible only if we gain
society’s permission to use sound, proven science -- including
genetically engineered crops -- to produce food.  But the most important lesson from the drought of 2012 is
this: Our world can’t take food production for granted.
Producing food will always be subject to all the uncertainties
and unpredictability of the weather. We won’t have a food-secure
world if we compound the inherent risks with poor policy.  (Greg Page is chairman and chief executive officer of
Cargill Inc. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Cargill_Incorporated@cargill.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  