-- Lebanon Tourism Down 13% This Year on Syria War, Minister Says
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-05-29T11:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/lebanon-tourism-down-13-this-year-on-syria-war-minister-says.html
Tourism in Lebanon has dropped 13
percent this year, weakened by travel warnings and spillover
from the civil war in neighboring  Syria , caretaker Tourism
Minister Fadi Abboud said.  Tourism had already contracted by 20 percent in 2012,
Abboud said today in a telephone interview. The sector made up
22 percent of GDP in 2010 and dropped to 19 percent last year,
he said. The figures include real estate foreigners bought for
personal use.  “Tourism is directly tied to stability in the security
situation,” he said. “I’m not expecting anything better” than
last year.  The two-year-old uprising against Syria’s President Bashar al-Assad has fed sectarian conflict in Lebanon from the start.
Assad’s supporters and opponents have clashed mainly in the
northern Lebanese city of Tripoli, where 30 people died in
fighting that began last week, the Daily Star newspaper said
today.  In other violence this week, three Lebanese soldiers were
killed in a drive-by shooting, and at least four people were
injured when rockets slammed into a stronghold of the Lebanese
militant Hezbollah group, hours after its leader declared he
could mobilize thousands of fighters to help Syria’s rulers.  Gulf tourists largely shunned Lebanon last summer after
their countries warned them against travel to the country. This
year, the United Arab Emirates and  Kuwait  have issued similar
warnings. Gulf nationals ordinarily make up 40 percent of
tourists and account for 60 percent of tourism spending, Abboud
said.  Abboud urged Gulf countries to look at the situation in
Lebanon “realistically.” Lebanon, he said, is “fully ready to
receive tourists.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  