-- ECB Warns Financial Weakness Could Break Best Lull in Two Years
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-05-29T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/ecb-warns-financial-weakness-could-break-best-lull-in-two-years.html
The European Central Bank said
weakness in the euro-area economy and the fragility of the
region’s banks risk ending what it describes as the calmest
period in financial markets since 2011.  “The main message is that financial stability has improved
since the last issue,” ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said
today in Frankfurt as he presented the ECB’s twice-yearly
Financial Stability Review. “But the situation remains fragile.
The year 2012 was not good at all for banks.”  While the central bank credits its own so-called OMT bond-buying program for helping to produce an easing of tensions in
the 17-member currency area after fears of a break-up peaked
last year, six straight quarters of recession are eroding the
resilience of banks. ECB President Mario Draghi says his staff
are looking at ways to stimulate lending to small businesses.  “Particularly vulnerable are banks that are confronted
with a significant deterioration of asset quality with high and
rising non-performing loan levels,” the ECB said in the report.
“Continued and prompt progress in proactively tackling bank
balance sheet problems is required.”  Italian, Spanish and Portuguese bonds soared after Draghi’s
July 26 pledge to do “whatever it takes” to defend the euro.
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
securities instead of similar-maturity German bunds shrank to as
little as 2.71 percentage points on May 3, the least since
August 2011. It swelled to a euro-era record of 6.498 percentage
points last July as Europe’s debt crisis worsened. It was 2.87
percentage points at 3:38 p.m. London time.  ‘Downside Risks’  As the euro-region economy faces “considerable downside
risks,” countries must restore competitiveness, boost the
flexibility of wages and prices and increase productivity as
banks repair their balance sheets, the ECB said.  “The prospects for the euro area remain well below those
for international peers –- including major advanced and emerging
market economies,” the ECB said. “Both private and public
sector forecasts indicate an only gradually improving near-term
economic outlook in the euro area. The latest ECB staff
projections suggest a gradual recovery in the second half of
this year, largely driven by a pick-up in domestic demand.”  The ECB will publish new staff forecasts for growth and
inflation at its rate-setting meeting on June 6. It currently
predicts the euro-area economy will contract by 0.5 percent in
2013 before growing 1 percent next year.  The report called on governments to speed up work on a
European banking union and stronger fiscal pillars in the
region, adding that any procrastination risks renewed tensions
in sovereign debt markets.  Continued Momentum  “Progress in adjusting public finance vulnerabilities
should not unravel,” the ECB said. “Beyond this, continued
momentum is needed towards completing a genuine Economic and
Monetary Union, notably including a full banking union and a
strengthening of fiscal frameworks.”  While banking union, which should receive its first pillar
in the form of ECB bank supervision next year, will be an
important contributor to financial stability, countries need to
focus on bank recapitalization and deficit reduction now, the
ECB said.  “Stressed countries have over the past few years made
considerable efforts to adjust their public finances,” the ECB
said. “Weaknesses in public finances, in particular, persist in
several countries, with expectations for government deficits in
2013 having worsened in approximately half of the euro area
countries since December.”  Disorderly Unwinding  Backtracking on consolidation could therefore risk
“renewed tensions in sovereign debt markets,” the report
warned. At the same time, as investors have bought into the
improvement in market sentiment after the ECB announced its
Outright Monetary Transactions program in mid-2013, the
possibility of a correction in credit markets is now rising, the
ECB said.  “An abrupt adjustment in benchmark sovereign interest
rates, generally considered as the riskless rate in asset
pricing models, or risk premia in specific market segments where
yields are compressed, could result in a disorderly unwinding of
flows,” leading to bank losses, the report said.  Looking back to the turbulent Cypriot bailout in March, the
ECB said financial markets largely shrugged off the imposition
of the euro area’s first depositor bail-in.  Contagion to other euro-area markets “appears to have been
largely contained in most cases.”  That improvement is partly due to financial market
participants having “internalized” the commitment of euro-area
politicians and monetary policy makers to keep the currency area
together, the ECB said.  “The current resilience of the euro area macro-financial
environment is in stark contrast to earlier stages of the
financial crisis,” the report said. ’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  