-- ECB Targeted as Blockupy Protesters Descend on Frankfurt
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-05-29T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/ecb-targeted-as-blockupy-protesters-descend-on-frankfurt.html
Frankfurt ,  Germany ’s financial
capital and the seat of the  European Central Bank , is bracing
for as many as 30,000 demonstrators to descend on the city for
four days of protests against European leaders’ handling of the
sovereign-debt crisis.  Activists have set up camp on the outskirts of the trade
fair grounds to the west of the city, awaiting the arrival of
busloads of people from all over the country as well as from
abroad, according to Blockupy, an international group that is
organizing the blockades. The biggest action is planned for May
31, when the demonstrators plan to “visibly disturb the usual
business of the ECB as well as other actors of the crisis
regime,” Blockupy said in a statement on its  website .  The debt crisis has left the euro area mired in recession
and fueled an increase in youth unemployment to an average 24
percent across the 17-nation currency union in March, according
to a Eurostat report last month. The ECB, which this month cut
its benchmark  interest rate  to a record low of 0.5 percent, has
backstopped European bond markets since 2010, lent unprecedented
amounts to commercial banks and announced a still-unused
“unlimited” bond-support program in 2012 to restore stability.  The troika of officials from the ECB, European Union and
 International Monetary Fund  have approved rescue packages for
euro-area countries from Ireland to Cyprus since the crisis
broke out in  Greece  in 2009.  ‘Obvious Symbol’  “The ECB is the most obvious symbol of the crisis,” Ani
Diesselmann, 31, a spokeswoman for Blockupy Frankfurt, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “The main point is that all
participants are against the troika and the undemocratic regime
which is managing the crisis in a way that is not for people,
but for profit.”  The ECB will remain operational during the demonstrations
while taking steps to ensure the safety of its staff, it said in
a statement this week.   Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest
lender, will also maintain services to its clients, though it
plans to close its Taunusanlage and Rossmarkt branches in the
financial district as a safety precaution, spokesman Klaus Thoma
said.  Police are advising Frankfurters to leave their cars at
home and avoid confrontation with protesters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  