-- ECB Says Private Lending Contracted for 12th Month in April
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-05-29T08:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/ecb-says-private-lending-contracted-for-12th-month-in-april.html
Lending to companies and households
in the euro area contracted for a 12th straight month in April
as the currency region struggles to leave its longest-ever
recession behind.  Loans to the private sector fell 0.9 percent from a year
earlier after dropping an annual 0.7 percent in March, the
Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank  said today. Lending
declined 0.3 percent from March.  The ECB cut its benchmark  interest rate  to a record low of
0.5 percent this month after the recession in the 17-member euro
area extended to six quarters in the three months through March.
While ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the bank is looking at
ways to stimulate lending, policy makers have signaled there’s
little that monetary policy can do by itself.  “Over time, as banks get rid of bad loans on their balance
sheets, lending could pick up,” said  Holger Sandte , chief
European analyst at  Nordea Markets  in Copenhagen. “It’s not a
quick development, and the ECB doesn’t have a silver bullet.”  The rate of growth in M3  money supply , which the ECB uses
as an indicator for future inflation, rose to 3.2 percent in
April from 2.6 percent in March.  M3 grew 3 percent in the three months through April from
the same period a year earlier. M3 is the broadest gauge of
 money supply  and includes cash in circulation, some forms of
savings and money-market holdings.  “Money and credit growth are very moderate in the euro
area,” ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said in
Frankfurt yesterday. Answering concerns that the ECB’s
accommodative stance could pose inflation risks, Asmussen added
that “we can’t speak of a bubble.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  