-- ECB’s Constancio Says Debate on ABS-Market Plan Is ‘Overblown’
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-05-29T15:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/ecb-s-constancio-says-debate-on-abs-market-plan-is-overblown-.html
European Central Bank Vice President
 Vitor Constancio  said expectations for a plan from the central
bank to stimulate the market for asset-backed securities have
become inflated.  “Whatever could be done would not be extremely
significant,” Constancio said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Frankfurt today. “It’s something that’s in the
menu of things but I wouldn’t attribute a big importance. The
public debate on that has been a bit overblown.”  With the euro-area stuck in its longest-ever recession and
the ECB’s benchmark rate already at 0.5 percent, policy makers
are searching for new tools to help companies hampered by high
retail lending rates or overly strict rules. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on May 2 the central bank would consult other euro-area institutions on how to restart the market for ABS.  “The potential is reduced, because if you look around and
see the size of this market, it’s very small indeed,”
Constancio said.  Should the ECB need to cut  interest rates  again, it might
face a choice of whether to begin charging banks to park funds
in its deposit facility. Such a measure would have
“contradictory effects,” Constancio said, adding that banks
could pass the costs on to customers.  Danish Experience  “It’s a measure which is very difficult to assess the
potential effect of,” he said. “But we have seen in the Danish
experience, one of the reactions was to, for a while, increase
loan rates to offset.”  No decision on such a measure has been taken by officials,
Constancio added.  With the ECB assuming responsibility for supervising
 Europe ’s banks next year, policy makers have pushed for a joint
resolution authority to be ready at the same time. As that has
been opposed by the German government, Constancio said the ECB
could live with an interim arrangement such as that proposed by
Bundesbank Vice President Sabine Lautenschlaeger.  “There are certainly transitional arrangements that can be
devised,” he said. “If a bank attains a point of non-viability
it has to deliver the bank to the national authorities.”  “We would like to have a European wall to deal with these
situations,” Constancio said. “We can live during a certain
period of time without them but I hope a solution will come.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  