-- Telecom Italia Is Said to Plan $13 Billion Network Spending
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-05-30T07:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/telecom-italia-to-approve-network-spinoff-societe-generale-says.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  is planning 10
billion euros ($13 billion) in fiber-optic investments for its
fixed-network unit, whose spinoff is expected to win board
approval today, said two people familiar with the situation.  The spending, to be made over 10 years, will help the new
network unit Opac SpA offer faster Internet access and services
including high-definition video, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the plan hasn’t been made public. The
investments would be funded by cash generated by the network
unit as well as contributions from investors, the people said.  Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe is considering a
sale of an initial 30 percent stake in the new company to state
lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti after a separation, people
familiar with the matter have said. The assets have a  valuation 
of about 14 billion euros, based on a multiple of six times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
a person familiar with the matter said this month.  “Opac SpA’s  shareholders  could get a good return of these
investments because the company will probably work as a utility
with strong  cash flow ,” said Andrea Rangone, a professor of
business strategy at Politecnico of Milan. “Revenue and profits
will be strongly influenced by the decisions of Italian
authority which will regulate the unbundling, defining the price
that other operators have to pay for access.”  Cash Generation  A Telecom Italia representative declined to comment.  A spinoff would bring regulatory benefits and generate cash
that could help Milan-based Telecom Italia reduce its  net debt  -
- which at 28.8 billion euros at the end of March is more than
double the company’s market value -- and invest in expanding
coverage. Regulatory benefits are the company’s initial focus,
two people said.  Telecom Italia  shares  have lost about 70 percent of their
value in the past six years as competition and regulations
weighed on subscriber growth and profitability. Telco SpA, a
group of investors made up of  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Assicurazioni
Generali SpA (G) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  Mediobanca SpA (MB) , is the
biggest shareholder with a 22.4 percent stake.  The stock rose 0.5 percent to 65.1 cents at 9:05 a.m. in
Milan, giving the company a market value of 11.9 billion euros.  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , after meeting with Telecom Italia
managers yesterday, also said its board will probably approve
the spinoff proposal today.  “We are likely to hear that Telecom Italia has agreed in
principle to move ahead with network separation and discussions
with CDP or others can start in earnest,” the bank wrote in a
note yesterday.  Debt Target  While such a move could generate cash, Telecom Italia said
the proposed network separation isn’t a means for cutting  debt ,
 Societe Generale  said.  “Telecom Italia is confident that the three efficiency
programs that they have implemented will allow them to hit their
year-end target, of net debt below 27 billion euros, and
currently they are under no stress from the rating agencies,”
according to the note.  Last week,  Standard & Poor’s  cut the former phone
monopoly’s rating to one step above junk, citing  Italy ’s
“tough” economic environment and competition in its mobile-phone business.  If Telecom Italia proceeds with the separation proposal, it
would also need to hold talks with Agcom, the country’s
telecommunications regulator, and agree on a framework of rules
governing the new company to ensure rivals have access to its
transmission network, a person familiar with the situation said
this month.  The carrier is separately evaluating a possible combination
of its wireless unit with  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s 3 Italia,
although  Spain ’s Telefonica remains skeptical of a transaction,
people familiar with the matter have said. A merger would also
likely attract antitrust scrutiny, analysts have said. Telecom
Italia said on May 8 it plans to complete the review
in 30 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  