-- Emerging Currencies Slump as Turkish Yields Soar Most in 4 Years
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-05-29T16:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/emerging-currencies-slump-as-turkish-yields-soar-most-in-4-years.html
Emerging market currencies weakened
and  Turkey ’s bond yields climbed the most since October 2008 as
concern the U.S. will reduce economic stimulus measures curbed
demand for riskier assets.  The Philippine peso dropped 1.3 percent, the most since
November 2010, leading losses among 24 emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. South Africa’s rand fell to a
four-year low and the Russian ruble traded at its lowest to the
dollar in more than a month. Yields on two-year benchmark
Turkish notes climbed 26 basis points, or 0.26 percentage point,
to 5.52 percent at the close in Istanbul.  U.S.  consumer confidence  advanced to the highest in more
than five years, a Conference Board report showed yesterday,
fueling bets the  Federal Reserve  will reduce asset purchases.
Turkey and South Africa are among the “large emerging-market
current-account deficit economies” being hit harder by the
sell-off as investors pursue “quality rather than yield,” UBS
AG analysts Bhanu Baweja and Manik Narain in London wrote in a
research note today.  “We still need to wait for next week’s nonfarm payroll for
a definite assessment, but for the time being the general market
momentum is clearly not working in favor of global  emerging
markets  risky assets,”  Benoit Anne , the head of emerging-markets strategy at Societe Generale SA in London, said in an e-mailed note today.  Weaker Rand  The rand is the worst performing emerging market currency
this month, losing more than 8 percent against the dollar, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The Chilean, Colombian and Mexican
peso have each declined more than 3 percent in the period, while
Hungary’s forint and China’s  renminbi  are the only two gainers.  Turkey’s current-account gap, which measures 7.3 percent of
gross domestic product, is the third biggest of about 60
countries tracked by Bloomberg, while South Africa’s is the
fourth at 6.5 percent.  The Fed buys $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage debt a
month to support the domestic economy. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said on May 22 the central bank may cut the pace of buying “in
the next few meetings” if economic conditions improve.  Nonfarm output data are due to be released on June 5,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  