-- Ethiopia to Accommodate Nations Concerned by Nile Dam
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-05-30T09:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/ethiopia-to-accommodate-nations-concerned-over-dam-on-nile-river.html
(Corrects to remove reference to amount of electricity in
second paragraph of story first published yesterday.)  Ethiopia’s government said it will
try to accommodate nations concerned that their water supplies
may be affected by the damming of the  Blue Nile  River, as
Sudanese and Egyptian officials met to discuss the issue.  Ethiopia, source of one of the two tributaries of the Nile
River, will start filling the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam on
the Blue Nile at the “end of next year,” Deputy Prime Minister
Debretsion Gebremichael said in an interview yesterday. The 80
billion-birr ($4.3 billion) hydropower project may begin
generating of electricity next year and is set for completion in
2017, he said.  The schedule for filling the 74 billion cubic meter
reservoir is expected to be a “major comsg4ncern” for the
downstream nations of Egypt and Sudan, said Debretsion. Once
completed, the power plant will be  Africa ’s largest with the
capacity to generate 6,000 megawatts.  Egypt , which relies on the
Nile for almost all of its water, has historically opposed
upstream projects on the world’s longest river.  “We are not selfish, we are not only looking at our
national interest,” said Debretsion, who is also chairman of
the state-owned Ethiopian Electric Power Corp. “This is an
international river and we will try our best to accommodate
their benefits and their interests.”  Seeking Assurance  Sudanese Water Resources and Electricity Minister Osama
Abdalla Mohamed al-Hassan arrived in the Egyptian capital,
Cairo, today to discuss the issue with Egyptian officials, the
state-run Middle East News Agency reported.  Egypt’s government and public are concerned that the dam
may decrease the flow of the Nile, Mohamed Edrees, Egypt’s
ambassador to  Ethiopia , said in a phone interview today from
Addis Ababa.  “Our concern is for it not to affect our water security,
to harm the water coming to Egypt,” he said. “How to do it
effectively on the ground and how to implement it, this is
something to be left to the technicians to discuss and agree
on.”  The dam, which will be twice the size of  Singapore , will be
full in “five to six years,” Ethiopian Water and Energy
Minister Alemayehu Tegenu said at a ceremony to celebrate the
diversion of the river yesterday in Guba, 454 kilometers (282
kilometers) northwest of Addis Ababa. “We won’t fill the
reservoir at one go,” he said.  ‘Broad Understanding’  Sudan ’s government has had consultations with Ethiopia and
Egypt and there is a “broad understanding on the issue,”
Foreign Ministry spokesman Abu-Bakr al-Siddiq said in a phone
interview today from Khartoum, the capital.  “We don’t have any problem with what the Ethiopians have
done,” he said. Edrees said the diversion has no “direct
implication” as it doesn’t alter the flow of the river.  A technical committee made up of neutral experts and four
representatives each from Ethiopia, Sudan and Egypt is expected
to deliver a report on the project in a “few days,” Edrees
said.  “Actual dam construction” can start after the diversion
was carried out a “few days ago,” said Debretsion. The
altering of the course was a milestone in the project as “we
managed to direct Abay on our own side,” Alemayehu said, using
the Amharic name for the Nile.  Members of the Ethiopian public have bought bonds worth
more than 5 billion birr so far to pay for the dam, which will
be financed from domestic sources only, Bereket Simon, who heads
a fund-raising council for the project, said in an interview at
the site yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  