-- Mets Beat Yankees 2-1 as Rivera Has 1st Blown Save of Season
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-05-29T09:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/mets-beat-yankees-2-1-as-rivera-blows-first-save-of-mlb-season.html
The  New York Mets  won their second
straight game against the  New York Yankees  for the first time
since 2010 as  Mariano Rivera  surrendered two ninth-inning runs
for his first blown save of the Major League Baseball season.  The Mets won 2-1 for the second straight night at Citi
Field in New York. The four-game crosstown series now switches
to Yankee Stadium for games tonight and tomorrow.  Rivera, 43, the MLB career leader with 626 saves, had
successfully converted all 18 of his previous save opportunities
this season. He leads the  American League  in saves in 2013.  “We don’t want that to happen, but it happened,” Rivera
said on the Yankees website. “Hopefully, it’s the last one, God
knows. But at the same time, what can I say? It was a great game
until it got into the game.”  The Mets remain fourth in the five-team National League
East division with a 20-29 record. The Yankees (30-21) are one
game behind the AL East division-leading Boston Red Sox (32-21),
who lost 3-1 to the  Philadelphia Phillies  last night.  After rain caused a 100-minute delay to the start of last
night’s game, the Yankees took the lead in the sixth inning.
 Brett Gardner  reached second base on a fielding error by Marlon Byrd and advanced to third on Robinson Cano’s groundout before
scoring on Lyle Overbay’s single.  Rivera relieved  David Robertson  in the ninth and gave up
hits to all three batters he faced. Leadoff batter Daniel Murphy
had a ground-rule double before scoring on Wright’s single to
tie it at 1-1. Wright, who had advanced to second on a throwing
error by center fielder Gardner, then scored the winning run on
 Lucas Duda ’s single.  “Incredible,” Wright told ESPN in a televised interview.
“To get one against the greatest closer of all time, I mean,
those don’t come around too often.”  Rivera threw the ceremonial first pitch before the game
last night as the Mets honored the 12-time All-Star in his last
scheduled appearance at Citi Field in his 19th and final season.  Mets starter Matt Harvey surrendered one run on six hits
and struck out 10 in eight innings, while reliever Scott Rice
(3-3) got the win after pitching the ninth. Yankees starter
Hiroki Kuroda gave up four hits and struck out seven in seven
scoreless innings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 