-- Letters to New York Mayor Test Positive for Ricin
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-05-29T23:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/letters-to-n-y-mayor-said-to-test-positive-for-ricin.html
The  Federal Bureau  of Investigation
and the  New York City Police Department  are investigating
anonymous letters threatening Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  that
tested positive for the deadly chemical ricin.  The writer of a letter opened in New York on May 24
threatened the mayor and made references to “the debate on gun
laws,” NYPD spokesman  Paul Browne  said in a statement.  Similar correspondence sent to the  Mayors Against Illegal
Guns  in Washington was opened two days later, the NYPD said.
Bloomberg is a co-chairman of the coalition, which is a
national, bipartisan group of mayors, according to its website.  The FBI’s Joint Terrorism Task Force and the NYPD’s
Intelligence Division, which is responsible for the mayor’s
protection, are investigating the threats, Browne said.  Jim Margolin , a spokesman for the FBI’s New York office, confirmed
the bureau is investigating the matter and that the letters are
undergoing further tests at a federal lab in Maryland.  Civilian personnel in both locations who came into contact
with the letters didn’t display symptoms, Browne said. Members
of the NYPD’s Emergency Services Unit who had contact with the
New York letters, which were opened at the city’s mail facility
on Gold Street in Manhattan, are being examined for minor
symptoms of ricin exposure that they experienced that have since
abated, Browne said.  Potentially Fatal  Ricin is made from castor beans and has been used
experimentally in medicine to kill cancer cells, according to
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. It’s
harmful and potentially fatal if inhaled or ingested, according
to the CDC.  A man from Tupelo, Mississippi, was arrested last month in
connection with the mailing of letters containing ricin to
President Barack Obama and U.S. Senator  Roger Wicker . James Everett Dutschke was charged with producing a biological agent
for use as a weapon.  Dutschke, a former martial arts instructor, was arrested on
April 27, four days after federal prosecutors dropped charges
against Paul Kevin Curtis, an Elvis impersonator from Corinth,
Mississippi. A lawyer for Curtis had told a federal judge during
a court hearing that he may have been framed by Dutschke because
the men had a long-running feud.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
the parent company of  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  