-- EU China-Bike Duty Hits Indonesia, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Tunisia
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-05-29T10:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/eu-china-bike-duty-hits-indonesia-malaysia-sri-lanka-tunisia.html
The European Union extended 20-year-old trade protection against bicycles from China to  Indonesia ,
 Malaysia ,  Sri Lanka  and  Tunisia , saying Chinese manufacturers
used the four countries to evade the levy.  The EU said Chinese exporters of bikes to  Europe  shipped
them via Indonesia, Malaysia and Sri Lanka and arranged assembly
operations via Malaysia and Tunisia to dodge the 48.5 percent
duty. Separately, the EU lowered the levy to 19.2 percent for
one Chinese exporter and to zero for two others including  Ideal
(Dongguan) Bike Co.  while prolonging the anti-dumping protection
until mid-2018 from October 2016.  The levy is meant to punish Chinese exporters for selling
bicycles in Europe below cost, a practice known as dumping. In
October 2011, the EU renewed the anti-dumping duty for five
years to help European producers including  Accell Group NV (ACCEL) 
compete with cheaper imports.  The import tax “was circumvented by trans-shipment via
Indonesia, Malaysia, Sri Lanka and assembly operations via
Malaysia and Tunisia,” the 27-nation bloc said in a decision
today in Brussels. The extension, which exempts some Indonesian,
Sri Lankan and Tunisian bike manufacturers, results from a probe
opened last September and will take effect after being published
in the EU’s  Official Journal  in coming days or weeks.  Bicycle trade is a microcosm of EU-China  commercial
frictions  that are growing as European policymakers threaten a
broader crackdown on perceived unfair low pricing by Chinese
exporters. The two-decade-long punitive duties on bikes continue
to preoccupy the EU and China while the bloc warns of possible
new levies on Chinese solar panels and mobile-telecommunications
equipment to counter alleged dumping and subsidies.  Bicycle Market  China , the world’s biggest bicycle market with production
of 83 million in 2011, threatens European producers because the
country exports almost 70 percent of its output and has spare
capacity of more than 25 million, the EU said. The EU is also
attractive to Chinese exporters because it is the No. 2 bicycle
market, according to the bloc, which said China’s share of the
European market is about 10 percent when the circumvented
imports are included.  European trade protection against Chinese bicycles dates to
1993, when the EU introduced a 30.6 percent anti-dumping duty on
imports from China. The bloc renewed that levy in 2000 before
raising it to the current 48.5 percent in 2005 at the same time
as introducing anti-dumping duties as high as 34.5 percent on
imports from  Vietnam .  Five-Year Prolongation  The EU let the levies against Vietnam expire in July 2010
while opening an investigation into whether to renew the 48.5
duty against China, a step that automatically kept the measure
in place at least for the duration of the probe. The five-year
prolongation in October 2011 was the outcome of that inquiry.  Today’s EU decision to ease the 48.5 percent duty for three
Chinese bike exporters is the result of a review begun in March
2012 and re-imposes the trade protection for five years from the
upcoming date of publication in the Official Journal.  Last week, the EU ended a threat to introduce a separate
set of punitive duties on Chinese bikes by closing a probe into
alleged subsidies to the Chinese industry.  In a third decision today, the EU renewed anti-dumping
duties as high as 63.5 percent on a welding product from China
for another five years following a review into whether to let
the measures lapse.  These levies apply to tungsten electrodes, used for welding
in industries such as aerospace, automobiles, shipbuilding and
oil and natural gas. The EU imposed the duties against China in
March 2007 to shield  Austria ’s Plansee Metall GmbH from cheaper
imports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  