-- EU Carbon Nears 3-Week High as Lawmakers Consider Surplus Fix
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-05-29T17:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/eu-carbon-nears-2-week-high-as-lawmakers-consider-surplus-fix.html
European Union carbon permits rose to
their highest level in almost three weeks as lawmakers
reconsidered a plan to temporarily curb supply in the market
that they failed to endorse last month.  Allowances for December advanced 2.7 percent to close at
3.75 euros ($4.85) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London , the highest since May 9. Certified Emission
Reduction credits for December gained 1 cent to 40 euro cents a
ton, taking this week’s gain to 18 percent.  A draft measure to delay EU emission-permit auctions, known
as backloading, is the first step toward strengthening the
world’s biggest cap-and-trade market after prices slumped to
all-time lows in April. It is scheduled for a new vote in the
environment panel of the European Parliament on June 19 and then
in the full assembly on July 2.  Carbon is also being supported by advancing German power,
as well as a lack of supply today because there were no permits
being sold at auction, said Mark Owen-Lloyd, a trading director
at Clean Energy Group Ltd. in London. There’s a “bit of
euphoria creeping into the market,” he said today by e-mail.  The EU leaders summit on May 22 and comments by the
European People’s Party show carbon markets will continue to be
central to the region’s plans to tackle climate change, Daniel Rossetto, the London-based managing director of emissions
markets adviser Climate Mundial Ltd., said today by e-mail.  “This is bullish news for the market,” Rossetto said from
the Carbon Expo conference in Barcelona. “There’s a very clear
sense now emerging that comprehensive emissions-trading-system
reform will have cross-parliamentary support.”  Spain’s government is discussing whether to back the draft
emergency measure to strengthen Europe’s carbon market and will
decide about its position in a fortnight, State Secretary for
Environment Federico Ramos said.  “My minister and I will do our best to find a positive
position on backloading or any other measures that help to
maintain the EU emissions trading system,” Ramos said in an
interview at Carbon Expo. “The industry department has some
doubts and we have to solve them in the next two weeks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  