-- EU Dials Back Austerity Amid Recession, Youth Unemployment
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-05-29T15:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/eu-dials-back-austerity-amid-record-recession-youth-joblessness.html
Recession-hit countries including
France, Spain and Italy won greater budget freedom as the
European Commission tried to stem the euro economy’s longest
slump and bring down a 24 percent youth unemployment rate.  The commission eased up on the austerity policies
championed by  Germany  in the wake of the debt crisis without
proposing new spending programs for the 17-nation euro zone, set
to be the world’s weakest economic link in 2013.  “Because of good progress made, we now have the space to
slow down the pace of consolidation,” commission President Jose Barroso told reporters in Brussels today. “Member states should
now intensify their efforts on structural reforms.”  A nonstop economic contraction since the fourth quarter of
2011 has given rise to fears of a Japan-style “lost decade”
especially in the once-booming southern European countries
blighted by the debt crisis.  A “small paradigm change” is in the works, Riccardo Barbieri, chief European economist at Mizuho International Plc,
said in a note today. “The EU is now weakening its stance on
austerity, while focusing more on broad reforms.”  The commission forecasts that the euro economy will shrink
0.4 percent this year, with declines of 4.2 percent in  Greece ,
where the crisis started, and 8.7 percent in Cyprus, the latest
country to fall back on emergency aid.  Debt Crisis  German-inspired European Union rules cap deficits at 3
percent of gross domestic product, a level breached by 11 euro
countries last year. The commission today offered France two
more years, until 2015, to reach that target.  Spain (GDBR10)  was granted
two years, until 2016, and Slovenia two years, until 2015.
 Portugal  got an extra year, until 2015. Even the fiscally strict
 Netherlands , a German ally in the debt-crisis response, was
allowed an extra year, until 2014.  Pressure was relaxed on Italy, which was right at the limit
last year, to further shrink the deficit. That gives new Prime
Minister Enrico Letta more room to cut property, consumption and
payroll taxes, with the twin goals of restarting the economy and
keeping his shaky governing alliance in power.  Tax relief and the settlement of unpaid bills owed to
companies leave the Italian government with “a very small
safety margin,” EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
Olli Rehn said. He welcomed the “strong safeguards” that would
kick in automatically to prevent  Italy ’s deficit from swelling
back above the limit.  ‘Effective Action’  Two countries were ordered to do more:  Belgium , with a 3.9
percent deficit last year, has failed to take “effective
action” and must hit the target in 2013, the commission said.
It opened a disciplinary procedure against Malta, the euro
zone’s smallest economy, for overstepping the limit.  The commission’s verdicts require an endorsement by
national finance ministers. While Germany has signaled that it
won’t seek to overturn the recommendations, the anti-austerity
tilt has provoked criticism from Berlin in the runup to national
elections in September.  “We won’t agree to a weakening of the budget rules,”
Norbert Barthle, parliamentary budget spokesman for  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic Union, said May 27.  The commission tiptoed around the question of getting
Germany to spur consumer spending, which would be one way of
lifting the broader  European economy . Noting that German take-home pay is on the rise, Rehn urged Merkel’s government to
promote “the conditions that enable wage growth to support
domestic demand.”  Youth Unemployment  After a Brussels summit last week, Merkel reassured her
home audience that European governments aren’t throwing more
cash at economic problems beyond a previously announced seven-year, 6 billion-euro ($7.7 billion) initiative to find jobs for
young people. That sum is less than 0.01 percent of the 27-nation EU’s GDP.  The commission argued that the extra deficit-reduction time
is justified because the economy has tailed off, and said that
it granted the concession only to countries that are making
economy-boosting reforms to their health care or pension systems
or labor markets.  France , for example, was told to fix its pension system by
raising the retirement age, reinstating reforms that President
Francois Hollande has partly reversed. Rehn spoke of “a sense
of urgency to tackle the erosion of competitiveness in the
French economy.”  Labor Market  Spain, already granted a one-year deficit-cut extension
last year and the recipient of an aid package for its banks,
must trim health-care costs and pursue “active” labor market
policies, the commission said. It issued no new guidelines for
the four countries -- Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Cyprus --
drawing on aid for the public sector.  Deficits have been less of a concern for investors since
last year’s European Central Bank pledge of potentially
unlimited intervention in bond markets defused the risk of a
euro breakup. The market now charges France 52 basis points more
than Germany to borrow for 10 years, compared to 190 basis
points in November 2011.  “A key concern is that softening the fiscal rules may
impact the credibility of the euro zone’s fiscal framework,”
 Nick Kounis , head of macro research at ABN Amro in Amsterdam,
said in a note yesterday. “Short-term growth-enhancing policies
are welcome, but the credibility of the fiscal framework needs
to remain in place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  