-- EU Gives the Netherlands an Extra Year to Meet Deficit Targets
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-05-29T14:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/eu-gives-the-netherlands-an-extra-year-to-meet-deficit-targets.html
A deadline for the  Netherlands  to
meet a European Union budget-deficit target was extended by one
year to 2014 as the country is mired in its  third recession  in
five years.  “The immediate policy challenge for the Netherlands will
be to contain balance-sheet adjustments, to restore confidence
and harness growth while simultaneously stabilizing public
finances,” the European Commission, the EU’s executive arm,
wrote in a  report  released in Brussels today.  The Netherlands, which has exceeded the EU’s deficit
ceiling of 3 percent of gross domestic product since 2009, is
trying to trim its spending gap with a four-year, 16 billion-euro ($21 billion) austerity package agreed on by the coalition
government in October. Prime Minister Mark Rutte’s Cabinet will
decide in August on additional austerity measures to meet the
target next year.  Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said the commission’s
findings were expected. After the commission’s recent economic
forecast for the Netherlands, “it is not surprising the
commission says we need more budget cuts,” he told Dutch press
agency ANP in The Hague today.  The Dutch budget deficit will narrow to 3.6 percent of GDP
this year and remain at that level in 2014, the commission
forecast on May 3. The country’s economy will contract 0.8
percent this year, a second annual decline, before returning to
growth in 2014, the commission said.  ‘Whiz Kid’  Today the commission said the Netherlands, the fifth-largest economy in the euro area, should trim its deficit to 2.8
percent of GDP next year, under the EU ceiling.  “You don’t have to be a whiz kid to understand that, with
the continuing deterioration of the economy, problems have
rather increased than decreased in the last few months,”
Dijsselbloem said in an interview on RTLZ television yesterday.  The commission said the Netherlands has considerable
challenges when it comes to fiscal policy, the labor market, the
housing market, investments in research and development, and
education.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  