-- Europe Seeks CFTC Delay in Imposing Swaps Rules on Banks
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-05-30T10:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/eu-warns-of-uncertainty-if-cftc-won-t-delay-swaps-rule.html
The European Union is urging the U.S.
to allow time for international talks before it imposes swaps
rules on EU lenders, saying that the current timetable would
lead to the banks facing extra costs.  The European Commission wrote to  Gary Gensler , chairman of
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, urging him to
extend a temporary exemption for overseas banks, which is
scheduled to expire on July 12, according to a copy of the
letter obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The EU wants the exemption to be maintained until
“international principles on cross-border  swap  rules have been
agreed by G-20 leaders and implemented in our respective
jurisdictions,” according to the letter from  Jonathan Faull ,
the commission’s director general for internal market and
services, and Steven Maijoor, chairman of the European
Securities and Markets Authority.  An extension is needed to “avoid any possible legal
uncertainty and unintended consequences” from overlapping
national rules, they wrote. “EU firms would face huge legal and
operational uncertainty.”  The international reach of CFTC swap trading requirements
has been one of the most controversial elements of the agency’s
Dodd-Frank Act rules, prompting opposition from financial
companies including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (G)  and  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   Extra Costs  The CFTC has also faced criticism from European and Asian
regulators over the reach of a rule requiring trades to be
guaranteed at clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or other
platforms, with nations warning of overlapping requirements and
extra costs for their banks.  “A globally harmonized approach to cross-border
regulation is of paramount importance,”  Stephen O’Connor ,
chairman of the  International Swaps and Derivatives Association ,
told U.S. lawmakers  last week , according to a published copy of
his remarks.  There is a risk that “market participants will be subject
to duplicative and/or contradictory regulatory mandates from the
EU and other non-US jurisdictions that would impose significant
costs, fragment market liquidity and potentially create an
uneven playing field,” he said.  Temporary Exemption  Under a temporary exemption granted last year, foreign-based banks and overseas operations of U.S. banks don’t need to
count trades they have with non-U.S. clients to determine
whether they cross the threshold requiring registration with the
CFTC. The agency also sought additional public comment on how to
define U.S. entities and foreign branches of U.S. companies.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, said
earlier this week that he will travel to the U.S. in mid-July
for talks with regulators.  “We are confident that there is a way forward,”  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for Barnier, said in an e-mail. The EU
and U.S. “dominate the global market when it comes to financial
services,” she said. “That is why it is so important that we
work closely together to ensure a level playing field and avoid
regulatory overlaps.”  It’s “clear we need to find fair a workable outcome,”
 Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the parliament’s economic and
monetary affairs committee, said in an e-mail. An extension of
the temporary reprieve for overseas banks would be “fully in
line with Dodd-Frank,” she said.  FSB’s Carney  Mark Carney , chairman of the Financial Stability Board has
said that the FSB will report to the G-20 in September on
efforts by regulators to resolve “outstanding cross-border
issues” for swaps regulation, “including gaps, overlaps and
inconsistencies.” The FSB brings together regulators, central
bankers and finance ministry officials from G-20 nations.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, has
filed suit against the CFTC challenging one of the agency’s
proposed swaps rules.  The EU is also guilty of seeking to apply its financial
regulations beyond its borders, Syed Kamall, a U.K. lawmaker in
the European Parliament said.  “When the EU pushes extra-territoriality in its financial
rules, it should come as no surprise when the U.S. seeks to do
this with its regulations,” he said in an e-mail.  “Until we are able to reach global agreements, the sad
reality is that the patchwork of regulation being implemented
across the countries of the G-20 will lead to regulatory
arbitrage, which businesses will seek to exploit,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  