-- Ex-Janus Managers Join Former Colleagues at Hedge Fund
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-05-29T20:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/ex-janus-managers-join-former-colleagues-at-hedge-fund.html
Brian Schaub and Chad Meade, stock
pickers who quit  Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS)  this month, have
joined Arrowpoint Partners, a Denver-based hedge-fund firm co-founded by their former colleague David Corkins.  The pair will focus on investing in small and medium-sized
companies, which is their area of expertise, Corkins said today
in a telephone interview. Schaub and Meade managed two of
Janus’s best-performing equity funds, the $4.9 billion Triton
Fund and the $2.3 billion Venture Fund, until the firm, also
based in Denver, announced their departure May 13.  “All of Arrowpoint is excited to bring a world-class team
into the firm,” Corkins said. “We have a long history with
Chad and Brian and their research process is in line with
ours.”  Arrowpoint manages about $2.2 billion in assets, according
to its website. Other former Janus employees working at
Arrowpoint include co-founder Karen Reidy, portfolio managers
Tony Yao and Minyoung Sohn, and Chief Operating Officer Rick
Grove, according to the firm’s website.  Schaub and Meade’s departures were the highest-profile
exits at Janus since Richard Weil took over as chief executive
officer in February 2010. The pair made Triton Janus’s best
stock fund in the five years through May 10, returning an annual
average of 12 percent and beating 98 percent of competing funds.
They also led Venture, which focuses on small companies, to 9.8
percent annual returns over five years, beating 87 percent of
rivals. Ron Sachs, former manager of the $8.6 billion  Janus
Twenty Fund (JAVLX) , will leave the firm May 31.  Tech Stocks  Janus, known for its concentration in technology stocks
that led to a rapid rise and fall when the sector boomed then
crashed in the early 2000s, is diversifying away from domestic
equities as it seeks to stanch investor withdrawals. The firm is
opening funds that shield investors from market volatility and
spread risk across asset classes. Investors have pulled money
from Janus for 15 straight quarters amid poor performance and a
broad shift to index-based investments and bonds.  Janus said last month its first-quarter profit rose 24
percent compared with a year earlier after stock-market gains
helped boost assets to $163.8 billion.  Corkins co-founded Arrowpoint in 2007, the same year he
left Janus, where he managed the  Janus Fund. (JANSX)  His market-beating
returns helped revive the company after its assets fell by more
than half following the collapse of technology stocks in 2000
and 2001.  Arrowpoint provides investment-management services to
wealthy investors and institutions through separate accounts and
limited partnerships, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  