-- Facebook’s Sandberg Sees More Teens on Tumblr, Twitter
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-05-29T21:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/facebook-coo-sandberg-sees-more-teens-on-tumblr-twitter.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , owner of the world’s
most popular social network, is facing increased competition for
younger users from services run by Twitter Inc. and Tumblr Inc.,
according to Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg .  While more teens are turning to rival social networks,
Facebook usage is still growing among that demographic, Sandberg
said today in an onstage interview at the D: All Things Digital
conference in  Rancho Palos Verdes ,  California .  “Teenagers are using other things more,” Sandberg said.
“At the same time, they continue to be very active, engaged
Facebook users.”  Attracting and keeping young members is a crucial part of
Facebook’s efforts to bolster advertising revenue and find ways
to profit from the growing portion of its more than  1 billion
users  who access the service on mobile devices. While about 94
percent of teen social-media users had Facebook profiles last
year, their ranks on Twitter more than doubled to 26 percent
from 2011, according to a  report  from the Pew Research Center.  “We are the leaders in a growing market,” Sandberg said.
“Do I think there’s time and room for people to do a lot more
sharing before we reach the zero sum game? Yes.”  Nasdaq Settlement  Facebook shares have  dropped  39 percent since an initial
public offering last May, leaving Facebook with a market value
of about $56.3 billion. Facebook fell 3.2 percent to $23.32 at
the close in  New York  after  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  agreed to pay
$10 million to settle Securities and Exchange Commission charges
that its mishandling of Facebook’s IPO last year was a violation
of U.S. securities laws.  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park , California, is concentrating
on new products to get users to spend more time on its mobile
site. Last month, the company introduced Home, software that
integrates features more deeply into some smartphones using
Google Inc.’s Android operating system.  The company has also considered buying Waze, a mobile
software provider of mapping products, people familiar with the
matter said earlier this month. The price could be as much as $1
billion, the people said.  Facebook’s first-quarter sales expanded 38 percent to $1.46
billion, the company said on May 1. Still, that was a slowdown
from the 40 percent growth rate in the fourth quarter.  Mobile made up about 30 percent of advertising revenue in
the first quarter, expanding from 23 percent in the previous
period.  “The growth you’re going to see for us on mobile is not
necessarily inserting more ads in, but improving the quality,”
Sandberg said.  Separately, the company today  said  it is rolling out a
service that verifies pages for high-profile users, borrowing a
feature that Twitter helped make popular. The tool is designed
to help members find the authentic accounts of celebrities and
other well-known people and businesses on Facebook, the company
said. Verified pages will have a small blue check mark to
indicate authentication.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  