-- Forint Weakens From Five-Month High as EU to Drop Budget Inquiry
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-05-29T15:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/forint-weakens-from-five-month-high-as-eu-to-drop-budget-inquiry.html
 The forint retreated from the
strongest level in five months against the euro on speculation
the rally anticipating  Hungary ’s escape from European Union
budget monitoring was overdone.  The forint gained 1.4 percent in four days through
yesterday after news website Bruxinfo reported on May 24 that
the European Commission will recommend an exit today from the
excessive deficit procedure. Laszlo Andor, the EU executive’s
Employment Commissioner, who is from Hungary, confirmed the
decision on his Twitter Inc. account today.  Hungary’s currency declined 1.3 percent to 290.47 per euro
by 5:08 p.m. in Budapest, paring its advance in May to 3.1
percent, still the best performance among 24 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The forint’s relative-strength
index rose to 75 yesterday, above the 70 level signaling an
excessive rally.  “The forint became overbought on a short-term basis and we
are seeing the correction of that today,” Pal Saaghy, a
Budapest-based currency trader at broker Equilor Befektetesi
Zrt., said by phone today. “The market had priced in the good
news on the EU deficit procedure and is now taking profit.”  Yields on the government’s benchmark 10-year domestic bonds
increased 23 basis points, or 0.23 percentage point, to 5.32
percent, the highest since May 1.  Taxes, Aid  Ending the deficit procedure, which has been in place since
Hungary joined the EU in 2004, would avert the threat of a cut
in development aid. Hungary probably also won’t need additional
measures to increase revenue, such as the introduction of new
taxes, if the EU lifts the EDP, Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga 
told InfoRadio late yesterday.  Hungary’s central bank today raised the amount of interest-free funding it plans to provide to commercial banks by 50
percent, Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy told
reporters today. The plan, modeled after a similar program by
the Bank of  England , is aimed at boosting lending and igniting
economic growth after a recession last year.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank yesterday lowered its benchmark
rate to a record 4.5 percent from 4.75 percent, matching the
forecast of all 24 economists in a Bloomberg survey, in a 10th
consecutive month of easing.  “Narrowing carry on forint assets amidst rising global
yields may weaken the attractiveness of local assets,”  Eszter Gargyan , a Budapest-based economist at Citigroup Inc., wrote in
an e-mailed report today. “But positive news -- EDP removal,
growth -- may still dominate in the coming months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  