-- Fortress Said to Seek $1 Billion for Infrastructure Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-05-29T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/fortress-said-to-seek-1-billion-for-infrastructure-fund.html
Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  plans
to seek $1 billion for a global infrastructure fund, building on
similar investments made by its private-equity pools, two people
with knowledge of the situation said.  Fortress Infrastructure Partners will start raising money
in June or July and make long-term investments in such areas as
aviation, telecommunications, intermodal freight transport and
energy, according to the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information isn’t public. Fortress private-equity
funds have made infrastructure investments over the last 10
years, including in cell towers, railroads, ports and aviation.  Gordon Runte, a managing director at the New York-based
firm that oversees private-equity and hedge funds, declined to
comment on the plan.  The dedicated fund is part of the firm’s move away from
larger, broader private-equity pools toward more sector-specific
vehicles. Fortress, which oversaw $55.6 billion as of March 31,
this year raised a $400 million worldwide transportation fund
that will invest in assets such as airplanes, helicopters,
engines and ships.  Fortress hopes to list that vehicle by the end of the year,
said  Wesley Edens , head of the private-equity business, in a
first quarter earnings call earlier this month.  “The private infrastructure fund raise is designed to
complement that with more private-equity-type opportunities,
both for assets and for companies, and we have just started the
process with that,” Edens said.  Joseph Adams will be chief investment officer for the new
fund and Edens will be co-chairman of its investment committee,
according to one of the people. Jonathan Atkeson, Ken Nicholson
and Robert Gibbons will help manage the new fund, which will
have a 10-year life, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  