-- Gafisa Soars on Report Alphaville Deal Imminent: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-29T19:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/gafisa-soars-on-report-alphaville-deal-imminent-sao-paulo-mover.html
Gafisa SA (GFSA3) , the Brazilian homebuilder,
rallied the most in two weeks as the newspaper Valor Economico
reported that it may sell its Alphaville unit in early June.  The shares jumped 3 percent to 4.10 reais at 3:19 p.m. in
 Sao Paulo  after earlier rising as much as 4.8 percent, the
biggest intraday gain since May 10. The stock was the best
performer on the  Ibovespa (IBOV) , which sank 1.8 percent.  The Sao Paulo-based company will decide on Alphaville in
the first half of June, Valor reported, citing a person it
didn’t identify. The newspaper said a deal may value the company
at about 2.1 billion reais ($996 million). Gafisa’s  market
capitalization  is 1.8 billion reais, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The main driver for Gafisa is that it may be getting
favorable valuations for the possible Alphaville sale,” Javier Gayol, an analyst at Corporativo GBM SAB in Mexico City, said in
a telephone interview. “It’s by far the best-performing asset
in the business and understandably the one that’s most
appealing. It would bring in the much-needed cash.”  Gafisa said in its first-quarter  earnings  report on May 10
that it was analyzing “strategic options” for its Alphaville
business, including the sale of a stake or an initial public
offering. A press official for Gafisa declined to comment on its
plans for Alphaville when contacted by  Bloomberg News  today.  “We want to make the best decision possible regarding
value generation for our shareholders,” Alceu Duilio Calciolari, Gafisa’s chief executive officer, said on a May 13
conference call. While the company was in “no hurry,” the
decision will probably be made this year, he said.  Home Demand  The homebuilder’s results have missed analysts’ estimates
in the past two quarters as it has backed away from projects
that are meant for low-income families and subsidized by the
government after it overestimated demand and built inexpensive
houses faster than it could sell them.  Alphaville builds higher-priced houses and apartments and
accounted for 24 percent of Gafisa’s first-quarter revenue. The
unit was the part of the business generating profit, Calciolari
said on the conference call, while Tenda, the company’s low-income unit, was still “consuming results.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  