-- Germany Should Escape Fines Over VW Law, EU Court Adviser Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-05-29T08:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/germany-should-escape-fines-over-vw-law-eu-court-adviser-says.html
Germany should escape fines after an
adviser to the European Union’s top court said it complied with
a 2007 ruling to change legislation known as the Volkswagen law.  Updates to a German law that shielded  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  from
takeovers since 1960 are “fully” in line with the ruling from
the tribunal, Advocate General Nils Wahl of the EU Court of
Justice said today. The Luxembourg-based EU court follows such
advice in the majority of cases.  Germany’s overhaul of the VW law continue to violate the
bloc’s rules because government veto powers at the company still
exist, the European Commission is arguing in a lawsuit at the EU
Court of Justice. Instead of scrapping three provisions that
were ruled unlawful by the court, the country abolished two and
kept the blocking minority, the commission has said.  Germany may be forced to pay millions of euros in penalties
if the EU court sides with the Brussels-based commission.  The EU’s top court in October 2007  overturned  the law that
protected Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen by capping
shareholder’s voting rights at 20 percent, regardless of the
size of their holdings. That matched the stake held during the
previous four decades by the German state of  Lower Saxony , where
Wolfsburg is located. Germany now faces a fine for failing to
end Lower Saxony’s blocking minority at the carmaker when it
modified the law in 2008.  The commission, which won the 2007 case,  sued Germany  in
2012 again over its “piecemeal approach” to changing the law.
The EU executive authority wants Germany to pay a penalty of
31,114 euros a day ($40,000) from the 2007 ruling until it
complies or until the ruling in today’s case, and a 282,725 euro
daily fine from the ruling in today’s case until the VW law is
in line with EU rules.  The case is:  C-95/12 , European Commission v. Federal
Republic of  Germany .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  