-- German Power Prices Won’t Climb for Five Years, Vattenfall Says
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-05-29T11:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/german-power-prices-won-t-climb-for-five-years-vattenfall-says.html
Power prices in Germany and the
Nordic area will probably remain near current levels until 2018,
according to the chief executive officer of  Vattenfall  AB, the
Nordic region’s biggest utility.  The balance between supply and demand will remain little
changed as production increases from the wind and sun, Oeystein Loeseth said today in an interview in  Stockholm .  German power for next-year delivery, the European benchmark
contract, fell to an eight-year low on May 2 as the region’s
second recession in four years curbed energy use. Increased
generation from renewable energy is causing gas-fired plants
including Vattenfall’s to lose money, Loeseth said.  “There are no signals for a recovery in German or Nordic
power prices for the next four or five years, and we have to get
used to the current levels,” Loeseth said. “Energy efficiency
and savings offset any possible consumption growth, while new
power production capacity, mostly from renewable energy, boosts
output, creating more than enough supply.”  German power for 2014 dropped 15 percent this year to 38.75
euros ($49.94) a megawatt-hour, according to broker data
compiled by Bloomberg. The comparable Nordic contract lost 4.5
percent in the period to 35.85 euros on Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s
energy exchange in Oslo.  Prices will be about 40 euros a megawatt-hour in  Germany 
and 35 euros to 36 euros a megawatt-hour in the Nordic area for
the next four to five years, Loeseth said.  Carbon Backloading  A European Union measure to tackle an oversupply in the
region’s carbon market may boost prices, Loeseth said. The
European Parliament is considering a proposal known as
backloading to enable postponing auctions of some allowances to
fix the glut that pushed prices to a record-low.  “Carbon backloading would help power prices rise a little,
but not much,” Loeseth said. “It’s uncertain, and fully
dependent on political decisions.”  The backloading proposal is scheduled for a new vote in the
environment panel on June 19 and in the full Parliament on July
2 after the assembly declined to support it last month. Power
producers in the EU must buy carbon allowances to offset
emissions from burning fossil fuels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  