-- Gold Demand in India Heads for Quarterly Record After Price Drop
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-05-29T10:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/gold-demand-in-india-heads-for-quarterly-record-after-price-drop.html
     May 29 (Bloomberg) --Gold demand in  India , the world’s
largest buyer, is heading for a quarterly record after prices
slumped to a two-year low in April, the  World Gold Council  said.  India’s gold imports will be 300 to 400 metric tons in the
second quarter, almost half total shipments for all of last
year, the London-based industry group said in a report. Gold
auctions run by the  State Bank  of  Vietnam  were fully subscribed
and some retailers in  Japan  ran out of stock, it said.  Investors sold 477.7 metric tons valued at about $21
billion from exchange-traded products this year as some lost
faith in gold as a store of value amid an improving U.S. economy
and rally in equities. The slump into a bear market last month
boosted demand for jewelry from  Asia  and spurred greater coin
purchases, with the  U.S. Mint  saying April 23 that it ran out of
its smallest gold items. Prices are 27 percent below the record
$1,921.15 an ounce set in September 2011.  “This report leads us to conclude that Asian markets will
see record quarterly totals of gold demand in the second
quarter,” Marcus Grubb, managing director of investment
research at the council, said in the report dated today. “Even
if ETF outflows continue in the U.S., it is quite likely that
the gold previously held in ETFs will find a ready market among
Indian, Chinese and Middle Eastern consumers who are taking a
long-term view on the prospects for gold.”  Gold Lagging  Gold for immediate delivery traded at $1,384.74 in  London ,
down 17 percent this year. It reached a two-year low of
$1,321.95 on April 16. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
commodities dropped 2.8 percent since the start of January and
the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities rose 9.8 percent.
Treasuries lost 1.1 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index
shows.  Degussa Goldhandel GmbH, a precious metal trading and
investment company in  Frankfurt , said demand this month will be
double the first-quarter average. Purchases outpaced sales by
nine to one after prices began the slump in mid-April, compared
with four to one in the first quarter, Wolfgang Wrzesniok-Rossbach, the chief executive officer of Degussa, said earlier
this month.  Investors held a record 2,632.5 metric tons through ETPs in
December, equal to almost a year of global mine production.
Holdings dropped every month this year and 2013’s  sales  now
exceed additions in the previous two years, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Lower average prices were already spurring more purchases
before the slide into a  bear market  in April. Total gold demand
fell 13 percent to the lowest in three years in the first
quarter as the record ETP sales outweighed an increase in buying
from China and India, the council said May 16. Retail investment
and jewelry demand in both nations jumped a combined 23 percent
in the quarter, according to the producer-funded organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  