-- Google’s Motorola to Sell Made-in-Texas Moto X by October
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-05-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/google-s-motorola-to-release-moto-x-by-october.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility
handset unit plans to unveil a new smartphone called Moto X by
October, stepping up efforts to gain share from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in
the market for handheld hardware.  The new phone will be manufactured near Fort Worth, Texas,
creating about 2,000 jobs, Motorola Mobility Chief Executive 
Officer Dennis Woodside said yesterday in an interview at the 
D: All Things Digital conference in  Rancho Palos Verdes , 
California.  Flextronics International Ltd. (FLEX)  will make the 
device, said Renee Brotherton, a spokeswoman for the company.  Google is using new designs and products to make the most
of last year’s $12.4 billion purchase of Motorola Mobility
Holdings, its largest acquisition ever. It’s also racing to
regain share lost to Apple in the $293.9 billion market for
smartphones.  “There’s a lot of opportunity for us out there over the
next couple of years,” Woodside said. “We’re trying to bring
Motorola back to its roots.”  The Moto X, which will use two processors to conserve
battery life, will include sensors to help it better understand
what a user needs, Woodside said. For example, the phone will
know when it’s turned on or being used in a vehicle.  By pledging to make smartphones in Texas, Google follows
Apple, which last year said it will make Mac computers in the
U.S. Apple’s plan will result the creation of about 200 jobs, if
the company follows the pattern of other technology companies,
labor economists said at the time.  Motorola, which uses Google’s Android operating system,
ranked No. 4 among smartphone makers in the U.S. in March, with
8.5 percent market share, down from 9.1 percent in December,
 according  to  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)   Tattoos, Pills  Apple was No. 1, adding almost three percentage points to
39 percent from December, while  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , which
also uses Android software, had 22 percent share.  HTC Corp. (2498)  had
9 percent.  Google’s Motorola Mobility also is looking at new ways
wearable-computing devices could confirm a smartphone user’s
identity, according to Regina Dugan,  senior vice president  of
advanced technology and projects at Motorola Mobility.  For example, Motorola is working with a company that
designs electronic tattoos that could be used for
authentication, said Dugan, who also appeared at the conference
yesterday. Motorola is reviewing a pill with a chip inside that
could be used for authentication.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  