-- Gordhan Disappointed With South African Economic Growth Slowdown
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-05-29T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/gordhan-disappointed-with-south-african-economic-growth-slowdown.html
South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said he’s disappointed by this week’s economic growth
data as he had expected a weaker rand to help boost
manufacturing.  “One would have expected with a significantly depreciated
rand the manufacturing sector would be doing better at
exports,” Gordhan said in an interview at the  African
Development Bank  annual meeting in Marrakech,  Morocco ,
yesterday. “Clearly demand from  Europe  which is still a
dominant player is lower and making an impact on the
manufacturing sector.”  Data published on May 28 showed the economy expanded by an
annualized 0.9 percent in the first quarter, the slowest pace
since a 2009 recession and below the most pessimistic forecast
of 15 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “The 0.9 percent is a disappointing number,” Gordhan
said. “We would have been hoping for a better rebound from the
mining sector because some of the difficulties from last year
have been overcome.”  The rand has declined 13.9 percent against the dollar this
year, the second worst performer of 16 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg, as labor unrest threatens to return to the mining
sector. It was down 0.6 percent to 9.8425 by 8:52 p.m. in
Johannesburg yesterday, a four-year low.  South Africa  must speed up spending on infrastructure
projects to boost the economy, Gordhan said. Government revenue
collection is looking “far more optimistic” than expected.  “One quarter is not the basis on which you decide the rest
of the year,” he said. “I am an optimist by nature, we will
see what the rest of the quarters are like.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Marrakech at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  