-- Ibovespa Futures Fall After First-Quarter GDP Misses Estimates
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-05-29T12:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/ibovespa-futures-fall-after-first-quarter-gdp-misses-estimates.html
Ibovespa futures  fell, a sign the
benchmark index may extend a two-day drop, after Brazil’s gross
domestic product grew less than expected in the first quarter.  Power utility  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET3)  may be
active after Brazil’s Senate failed to pass a bill that
regulates the reduction in electricity rates demanded by
President  Dilma Rousseff . State-controlled oil company  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR3)  may move as crude declined from a week-high after
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries indicated the
group will leave its output target unchanged at this week’s
meeting.  Ibovespa futures contracts expiring in June fell 0.9
percent to 55,530 at 9:07 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real was little
changed at 2.0755 per dollar. Brazil’s GDP increased 1.9 percent
in the first quarter of 2013 from the same period last year, the
national bureau of statistics said today. That compares with an
average estimate of 2.3 percent among analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Brazil ’s central bank is set to announce the monetary
policy committee’s decision on the benchmark Selic rate after
the market close. Economists expects an increase of 25 basis
points to 7.75 percent, while traders are betting on a 50 basis
points  advance.   The Ibovespa has declined 8.1 percent this year,
underperforming  emerging markets  including China, Russia and
India, amid concern quickening inflation will curb the nation’s
economic recovery. Brazil’s main equity index  trades  at 13 times
analyst earnings estimates for the next four quarters, compared
with a multiple of 10.8 for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index of
21 developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Trading volume for stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 6.4 billion
reais ($3.1 billion) yesterday, compared with a daily average of
7.67 billion reais this year, according to data compiled by the
exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  