-- Ibovespa Falls Most in the World as PDG Tumbles on Brazil Growth
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-05-29T20:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/ibovespa-drops-as-pdg-sinks-after-brazil-growth-trails-forecasts.html
The Ibovespa fell the most among the
world’s major equity benchmarks as  PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos
& Participacoes (PDGR3)  led consumer stocks lower after  Brazil ’s economy
expanded less than forecast for a fifth consecutive quarter.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the oil producer
controlled by the billionaire  Eike Batista , fell the most on the
gauge as crude slid. Batista’s mining company  MMX Mineracao &
Metalicos SA (MMXM3)  led declines by material producers.  Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  rose
after newspaper Valor Economico reported that the homebuilder
may sell its Alphaville Urbanismo unit in early June.  The Ibovespa fell 2.2 percent to 54,802.52 at 4:52 p.m. in
Sao Paulo. Sixty-six of the 71  stocks  on the gauge dropped.
Brazil’s gross domestic product increased 1.9 percent in the
first quarter of 2013 from the same period last year, below the
median estimate of 2.3 percent growth among 42 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “That’s a weak number that will make the market,
entrepreneurs and investors cut their estimates for the
Brazilian economy this year,”  Alvaro Bandeira , a partner at
Orama Asset Management, said by phone from Rio de Janeiro.  Brazil’s Finance Minister Guido Mantega told reporters in
Brasilia today that the government may review its projection of
3.5 percent growth for the economy this year. Brazilian swap
rates on the contract due in January fell seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 8.06 percent as the slower-than-forecast GDP growth fueled speculation that the central bank
will limit increases in borrowing costs today.  Target Rate  Policy makers raised the benchmark Selic rate last month
for the first time since July 2011, increasing it by a quarter-percentage point to 7.5 percent. Thirty-eight of the 57
economists surveyed by Bloomberg project another increase of 25
basis points today, while the rest expect an increase of 50
basis points to 8 percent.  “Brazil faces a very challenging scenario of low growth
and the need to raise interest rates as inflation remains
high,” Luis Gustavo Pereira, an analyst at brokerage Futura
Corretora in Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview. “The
currency is also weakening and will weigh on price indexes as
well. Investors just don’t want to enter the market under such
an uncertain scenario.”  The real weakened 1.7 percent to 2.1094 per U.S. dollar as
Mantega said the declines aren't a concern. Airline  Gol Linhas 
Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL3) , which has about 73 percent of its debt 
denominated in dollars, slumped 6.6 percent to 10.12 reais, the 
lowest intraday price since Dec. 14.  Brazilian Inflation  Brazilian consumer prices as measured by the IPCA index
increased 6.49 percent in April from a year earlier, according
to the bureau of statistics. Economists predict inflation will
end this year at 5.8 percent, according to a central bank survey
released May 27.  PDG declined 5 percent to 2.47 reais, the worst performance
on the MSCI Brazil/Consumer Discretionary Index, which sank the
most among 10 industry groups.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials
dropped 1.2 percent after the International Monetary Fund cut
economic growth projections for  China , the world’s biggest
consumer of raw materials. Commodities producers account for
about 39 percent of the Ibovespa’s weighting.  OGX sank 8.4 percent to 1.52 reais. MMX retreated 6.9
percent to 1.89 reais.  Gafisa Gains  Gafisa rose 2.5 percent to 4.08 reais. The homebuilder will
make a decision on the Alphaville sale in the first half of
June, Valor reported today, citing a source it didn’t name. A
press official for Gafisa declined to comment on its plans for
Alphaville when contacted by Bloomberg News.  The Ibovespa has declined 10 percent this year, the worst
performance among major emerging-market stock gauges, amid
concern quickening inflation will curb the nation’s economic
recovery. Brazil’s main equity index trades at 12.9 times
analyst earnings estimates for the next four quarters, compared
with a multiple of 10.7 for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of
21 developing nations’ equities, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 6.4 billion
reais yesterday, compared with a daily average of 7.67 billion
reais this year, according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  