-- Michelle Obama in Boston Means ’10 Defeat Not Forgotten
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-05-29T20:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/michelle-obama-in-boston-means-10-defeat-not-forgotten.html
The unofficial slogan for
Massachusetts Democrats as they work toward a special U.S.
Senate election next month is “Remember 2010.”  That was the year that political newcomer Scott Brown won
the seat held for 46 years by the late Democratic Senator  Edward Kennedy  and became the first Republican to prevail in a
Massachusetts Senate race since 1972.  “For us, screwing up a U.S. Senate election is not
theoretical: We have done it,” John Walsh, the state Democratic
Party chairman, said in an interview. “It’s not going to happen
again.”  At stake in the race is the partisan tilt of the Senate at
a time when President Barack Obama’s top domestic priority for
his second term -- revising immigration laws -- will be on the
floor and up for votes. Democrats and their allies are seeking
to maintain a 55-45 advantage over Republicans.  To demonstrate the party isn’t resting on its 3-to-1 voter
registration edge over Republicans in  Massachusetts , Democratic
leaders are lining up behind nominee Representative Ed Markey,
66, including first lady Michelle Obama. She hosted a fundraiser
for him today in Boston and urged her listeners to “keep
writing those checks” for Markey’s campaign.  The president, who has a 67 percent approval rating in the
state, according to a recent poll by Suffolk University,
endorsed his fellow Democrat yesterday.  Grassroots Efforts  Markey’s backers also are revving up a get-out-the-vote
effort for the June 25 election earlier in the campaign than
they did in 2010.  Even so, there are enough parallels to 2010 that some
Democratic strategists are concerned about a repeat.  As was the case three years ago, the Republican nominee,
Gabriel Gomez, 47, tells a compelling life story as the son of
Colombian immigrants who grew up to become a U.S. Navy SEAL.  Also like the last special election, some Democratic
officials are grumbling about their nominee’s light campaign
schedule as another Obama legislative priority -- the  health-care  measure that eventually passed -- hung in the balance. And,
as was the case with Brown, recent polls show Gomez holding a
lead among independent voters, though Markey is shrinking the
gap. Fifty-three percent of those on the Massachusetts voting
rolls are unaffiliated.  Enthusiasm Concern  “My concern is that people aren’t as actively involved and
there isn’t the enthusiasm level” needed to ensure a win, said
Cynthia Curtis, who raised money for Democrat Elizabeth Warren’s
successful 2012 Senate race and is doing the same for Markey.  Curtis also is monitoring voter fatigue. This is the third
U.S. Senate election in Massachusetts in less than four years.
Markey and Gomez are competing to fill the seat held for 28
years by Democrat John Kerry, picked by Obama to be secretary of
state. “It is exhausting,” she said. “And it is expensive.”  Republicans, eager to replicate the 2010 result, are
cutting a path similar to the winning one blazed by Brown, even
down to the candidate’s wardrobe: Brown’s omnipresent brown,
leather jacket, which signaled an informal and approachable
style, has been replaced by Gomez’s olive-colored, bomber-style
jacket that includes a Navy SEAL insignia.  Gomez events are designed to appeal to independents by
highlighting his personal story and connecting him with voters,
such as shaking hands outside of Boston Bruins hockey games.  ‘American Dream’  “Gabriel Gomez is the American Dream,” said Leslie
Little, 58, of Fitchburg, Massachusetts, at a rally headlined by
 Arizona  Senator John McCain, the 2008 Republican presidential
nominee and a Vietnam War hero. “A Navy SEAL, his wife in the
Peace Corps, it’s made for TV.”  Supporters punctuated the rally with spontaneous cheers,
including a man who started yelling “Go! Go! Gomez!”  Markey’s appearances rarely provoke such enthusiasm, as the
candidate, most often wearing a business suit, sticks to the
same script he’s been using for months. The National Rifle
Association, or NRA, should stand for “Not Relevant Anymore,”
he says.  Michelle Obama sought to motivate the crowd at today’s
fundraiser. “We must summon the passion and energy that got our
friend Elizabeth Warren elected,” she said. “We need to summon
the same passion and energy that got  Barack Obama  elected.”  “We’re fired up, Michelle,” a woman in the audience
yelled.  “Be fired up!” the first lady said, as her speech ended.  For Democrats, the key to the race is their field
operation.  PAC Backing  A political action committee founded by California
billionaire Tom Steyer, founder of Farallon Capital Management
LLC in San Francisco, plans to put money into turning out voters
who care about climate change, said PAC adviser Christopher Lehane in an e-mail. The group spent about $538,000 backing him
in April’s Democratic primary, according to Federal Election
Commission records.  Markey, who has served in the U.S. House since 1976, has a
team that includes “dozens” of former paid workers from the
Warren and Obama campaigns, said Carl Nilsson, Markey’s field
director, and they are adding more.  Robert Fitzpatrick, 38, got involved with Markey’s race
after Martina Jackson, a woman he met during the 2012 Warren
campaign, knocked on his door and asked for help. Her pitch: We
worked so hard to get Obama and Warren elected, it would be a
pity to lose this one.  He’s spent weekends this month canvassing targeted
neighborhoods in Newton, a  Boston  suburb. “If I care as much as
I do about these issues -- I have to do it,” he said before
heading out on a rainy Saturday morning.  Primary Vote  Markey has shown signs of weakness even with his party
base. In the primary, he received about 1,700 fewer votes that
the candidate who won the Democratic nomination in 2010 --and
that primary election was held in December.  Those results are “cause for worry for the Democrats in
the state,” said Peter Ubertaccio, the political science
department chairman at Stonehill College in Easton,
Massachusetts. “There is worry, and there is panic; I’m not
sure it is cause for panic.”  Courting Independents  Gomez’s team is creating a field team with “over 3,500”
new volunteers, according to Will Ritter, the campaign
spokesman. He said the team is “aggressively courting”
independent voters and those who supported Markey’s opponent,
fellow House member Stephen Lynch, in the primary.  The effort included a recent event in Braintree where Gomez
invited the press to sit in as he asked a family of “lifelong
Democrats” to support him.  A pair of recent polls shows Markey up by double digits,
including a May 23  survey  by Emerson College that put him up by
12 percentage points. That poll also showed Markey eroding
Gomez’s lead among the independents; Gomez had an 11-point edge,
down from his 21-point lead in a survey released May 1.  Still, making accurate predictions about a special election
has proved difficult. A Boston Globe poll had the Democratic
nominee up by 15 percentage points nine days before Brown won
the Jan. 19, 2010, special election.  “We work very hard to never let our team get distracted by
polling,” said Nilsson in an interview. “We’ve seen how
quickly things can change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  