-- Microsoft, Louboutin, Maasai, Arbitron: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-05-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/microsoft-louboutin-maasai-arbitron-intellectual-property.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest
software company, is seeking a patent on a technology that
rewards viewers for watching commercials.  Application  20130125161 , published in the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office May 16, covers a method of
increasing interactive viewing by tying achievement to specific
content. Viewers who meet certain set goals will receive an
award, which may be physical or virtual, according to the
application.  In some situations, the award may be tied to an avatar,
Microsoft said. Such awards could include the avatar itself, new
vehicles for the avatar, new homes for the avatar, virtual money
to purchase different avatar items, including clothes for the
avatar.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft applied for this patent
in November 2011.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Louboutin Sues California Company Over Knockoff Red Shoe Soles  Christian Louboutin Sarl, the Paris-based maker of shoes
that sell for as much as  $6,400 per pair , sued a California shoe
distributor for trademark infringement and is seeking more than
$2 million in damages.  Alba Footwear LLC  of City of Industry, California, is
accused of importing shoes that infringe Louboutin’s red-sole
trademark.  Investigators for Louboutin have bought Alba-supplied shoes
that featured red soles, according to court papers.  The French shoe company asked the federal court in
 Manhattan  to order Alba and its co-defendants’ to halt their
acts of infringement. Additionally, Louboutin is seeking an
order for the recall and destruction of infringing products and
promotional materials and for awards of money damages, attorney
fees and litigation costs.  Alba didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Christian Louboutin SAS v. Alba Footwear LLC,
1:13-cv-03536-PAC, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  Maasai Tribe May Seek Trademark Protection for Name, Images  Africa’s Maasai tribe may consider seeking protection for
its intellectual property by registering trademarks, the BBC
 reported .  Light Years IP , a Washington-based non-profit that works on
IP issues with producers in developing countries, told the  BBC 
that if the Maasai brand were owned by a corporation, it might
be worth more than $10 million a year.  About 80 companies worldwide use either the Maasai name or
an image of the tribe, including  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC) , which uses it for a line of beach towels, hats,
scarves and duffle bags, and Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc’s
Land Rover unit, which uses the term for a series of accessories
for its vehicles, the BBC reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Arbitron Sues Saga for Unauthorized Use of Audience Rating Data  Arbitron Inc., the media and marketing research firm, sued
 Saga Communications Inc. (SGA)  for allegedly making unauthorized use
of Arbitron’s audience estimates.  Saga, based in Gross Pointe Farms,  Michigan , is accused of
using the audience estimates without permission, beginning in
September 2010, according to the complaint filed May 23 in
federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware . Saga owns and operates
radio and television stations.  Arbitron, of Columbia,  Maryland , accuses Saga of using the
data for a variety of purposes, including setting advertising
rates for its radio stations, and making programming decisions.  These ratings were also factored into a formula used to
determine employee compensation, Arbitron said. This was such a
common practice, Arbitron claims, that employees’ bonuses were
known as “Arbitron bonuses,” based on how well a particular
radio program fared in Arbitron audience estimates.  Arbitron is asking the court for awards of damages of at
least $150,000 per act of infringement, in addition to attorney
fees and litigation costs. The company also asked for extra
damages aimed at punishing Saga for its actions.  Saga didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment on the complaint.  The case is  Arbitron Inc. (ARB) , v. Saga Communications Inc.,
1:13-cv-00923-UNA, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Taiwan’s Music Industry Seeks Blockage of Infringing Websites  Taiwan ’s Recording Industry Foundation, a music-industry
trade group, is calling for amendments to that nation’s
copyright laws, the Taipei Times  reported .  The industry favors legislation enabling the blocking of
foreign websites that infringe, according to the newspaper.  Taiwan’s Intellectual Property Office said it will ask
Internet services providers to block access to domain names and
Internet protocol addresses that infringe, the Times reported.  Cheng Kuo-wei, who heads the  Association of Digital Culture
Taiwan ’s Department of Media and International Cooperation
cautioned that what he deemed excessive expansion of IP rights
could obstruct chill the development of culture-oriented
business, according to the Times.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  U.K. Court Approves Extradition in Industrial Spying Case  A U.K. court ordered extradition of an Indian citizen
accused of industrial espionage under  India ’s Official Secrets
Act, the Times of India reported.  Ravi Shankaran, who was accused of leaking confidential
military information to arms dealers, has argued that the
evidence against him was fabricated and that the lengthy delays
in the Indian judicial system would violate his human rights,
according to the newspaper.  Lawyers for Shankaran said they will appeal the extradition
ruling from the Westminster’s Magistrate Court in  London , the
Times reported.  India’s Central Bureau of Investigation, which began
investigating the case in 2006, sent a two-member team to London
to assist authorities at the extradition trial, according to the
Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 