-- Microsoft-Skype Merger Approval Was Careless, Cisco Tells Court
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-05-29T13:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/microsoft-skype-merger-approval-was-careless-cisco-tells-court.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  challenged
European Union regulators’ approval of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s 2011
takeover of Skype Technologies SA, telling judges the deal
created so many competition concerns there should have been an
in-depth probe.  Microsoft should never have been allowed to “buy its way
to monopoly” in the market for communications that combine
instant messaging, voice and video calls, Cisco told the  EU
General Court  in Luxembourg today. Cisco wants the court to rule
whether the EU was able to conclude beyond a reasonable doubt
that the merger didn’t trigger competition problems, without an
in-depth examination.  “This was a very serious case and there were many factors
to show that there could be serious harm for consumers,”
Alfonso Lamadrid, a lawyer for Cisco told the court today. “The
commission brushed off these concerns. Its assessment was, with
all due respect, careless.”  Microsoft won unconditional approval from the EU in October
2011 to buy Skype, the world’s most popular international
calling service, for $8.5 billion. EU regulators said the deal
wouldn’t harm competition because the market was growing and
they faced “numerous players, including Google.”  The commission used “flawed reasoning” that conflicted
with its approach in previous cases, said Cisco, the largest
maker of computer-networking equipment. The combination of the
companies would give them a combined market share of 80 percent
to 90 percent in the market for video calls on Microsoft’s
Windows-based computers.  Eliminate Incentive  It would “reinforce” the new company’s dominant position
and “eliminate any incentive” to offer interoperability with
other products, Cisco said, according to a court summary of the
 San Jose ,  California  based company’s written arguments.  The market share hasn’t “put off” other participants,
such as Viber Media Inc., from entering the market, said
Nicholas Khan, a lawyer for the commission.  “Cisco pretends to seek interoperability, but what it
actually seeks is that it wants Microsoft to change its
products,” Georg Berrisch, a lawyer for Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, told the three-judge panel. Microsoft bought
Skype “to expand its offerings on the consumer market.”  Luis Ortiz Blanco, another lawyer for Cisco, said the EU
failed to show that users will be able to easily switch from one
platform to another. The commission failed to understand that
people communicate in interconnected groups and as such would be
less willing to switch.  “If you can already reach everybody on Skype, why should
you switch to different applications,” said Ortiz Blanco.  The case is:  T-79/12 ,  Cisco Systems  and Messagenet v.
Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  