-- Midwest Gasoline Weakens as Magellan Lifts Allocation
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-05-29T20:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/midwest-gasoline-weakens-as-magellan-lifts-allocation.html
Gasoline in the U.S. Midwest extended
losses for a second day, weakening the most in a month, on
speculation more motor fuel is arriving in the region after
 Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP)  lifted allocation programs.  Magellan removed yesterday several terminals in the central
region of its pipeline system from its “N-grade” allocation
program, which began May 16 because of stronger-than-normal
demand, said Bruce Heine, a company spokesman. A company
allocates shipments when demand on a pipeline exceeds that
line’s capacity.  “Our N-grade-87-octane gasoline inventory is improving at
this moment,” said Heine, who is based in Tulsa,  Oklahoma .  The premium for  87-octane gasoline  in Group 3, which
includes states north of Tulsa to  Minnesota  and North Dakota,
weakened 5 cents to 8 cents a gallon versus futures on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. The differential has  narrowed  from a
record premium of 64 cents this month.  Supplies in the U.S. Midwest, known as PADD 2, dropped
159,000 barrels to 47.6 million barrels in the week ended May
17, according to Energy Information Administration data. That’s
also the lowest level for this time of year since 2009.  Regional stockpiles declined as refineries including  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s Joliet, Illinois, plant conducted planned
turnarounds. Unplanned maintenance at  CVR Energy Inc. (CVI) ’s
Wynnewood, Oklahoma, plant may have also exacerbated supplies.  Th e 3-2-1 crack spread  in Group 3, a rough measure of
refining margins based on West Texas Intermediate in Cushing,
Oklahoma, fell $1.75 to $28.42 a barrel, the lowest level in
three weeks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  