-- Immigrants Provide $115 Billion to U.S. Medicare Program
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-05-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/immigrants-provide-115-billion-to-u-s-medicare-program.html
Immigrants to the U.S. contributed
$115.2 billion more to the  Medicare Trust Fund  during the past
decade than they withdrew, casting doubt on criticism they
overburden the health plan, Harvard University researchers said.  The data, published in the journal  Health Affairs , suggest
immigrants, mainly those without U.S. citizenship, help
subsidize the nation’s health program for the elderly and
disabled. While American-born citizens took $30.9 billion out of
Medicare in 2009 alone, immigrants provided a surplus of $13.8
billion that year. The study looked at data from 2002 to 2009.  The findings undermine the belief that immigrants are a
drain on the U.S. health-care system, a key issue in the debate
about immigration reform, the researchers said. In 2009,
payments from immigrants and their employers accounted for 14.7
percent of payments to  Medicare , while their expenses
represented 7.9 percent of its costs, the study found.  “Immigrants generate a surplus for Medicare primarily
because so many of them are working-age adults,” said the
researchers led by  Leah Zallman , from  Harvard Medical School  in
 Boston  and the Cambridge Health Alliance. “That group has a
high labor-force participation rate -- a combination that
generates large payroll tax payments.”  Lawmakers in Congress are intent this year on achieving the
first major revision of immigration law in a generation, seeking
a balance between the Democrats’ proposed path to citizenship
for 11 million undocumented immigrants with enough border-security improvements to satisfy Republicans. Congress’s last
effort to pass comprehensive immigration legislation stalled in
2007.  Reform Hurdle  One frequent hurdle for proposed legislation is the concern
that immigrants drive up health-care costs, the researchers
said. The findings of the study released yesterday provide a
novel way of looking at the topic, they said. Many immigrants
come to the U.S. to work and few are elderly beneficiaries of
Medicare.  “Most of the surplus from immigrants was contributed by
noncitizens and was a result of the high proportion of working-age taxpayers in this group,” the researchers said. “Policies
that restrict immigration may deplete Medicare’s financial
resources.”  One-third of all immigrants didn’t have health insurance in
2010, with even higher rates among non-citizen immigrants, said
 Sidney Wolfe , director of Public Citizen’s Health Research
Group, a consumer watchdog organization.  “These are the same people contributing a surplus of well
over $10 billion a year to Medicare for medical care,” he said
in a statement. “For them not to be insured is a disgrace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  