-- Income Extremes Reap Most Benefit From Tax Breaks: CBO
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-05-29T20:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/income-extremes-reap-most-benefit-from-tax-breaks-cbo.html
The highest-income and lowest-income
households receive the most benefit from 10 of the largest U.S.
tax breaks, according to a  Congressional Budget Office  report
released today.  Households in the bottom 20 percent of U.S. income
distribution receive 11.7 percent of their after-tax income from
the breaks, relying on benefits such as the earned income tax
credit.  On the income scale’s other end, those in the top 20
percent receive 9.4 percent of after-tax income from breaks,
with those in the top 1 percent getting 13.1 percent of their
income from such breaks. The highest-income taxpayers rely on
different provisions; 68 percent of the tax benefit from lower
rates on investment income goes to the top 1 percent.  The report was released amid a partisan dispute over how to
revise the U.S. tax code. Democrats want to curb tax breaks for
high-income taxpayers to rein in the federal  budget deficit .
Republicans, meanwhile, want to use all the revenue that would
be generated by broadening the tax base to cover the rate cuts.  “The feasibility of  tax reform  comes into focus when you
see these numbers,”  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , a former CBO director
and president of the American Action Forum, said in a phone
interview today. The group favors free-market approaches to
policy. “It does lead you to the temptation to say we should
just go get this money, and that’s dangerous because that’s
different from reform.”  20 Percent  Democrats note that, in dollar terms, more than half of the
breaks studied go to the top 20 percent of households while 8
percent go to the bottom 20 percent.  Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland , the top
Democrat on the House Budget Committee, said the report bolsters
Democrats’ approach of combining spending cuts with tax
increases for top earners.  “We could achieve a significant amount of  deficit
reduction , long-term deficit reduction, by limiting these tax
preferences to the highest-income earners,”  Van Hollen , who
requested the study, told reporters on a conference call.  President  Barack Obama ’s budget calls for raising $529
billion over the next decade by limiting the value of tax breaks
for top earners.  Health Insurance  The study examined tax breaks including the exclusion of
employer-provided health insurance, deductions for mortgage
interest and charitable contributions and the  child tax credit .
In all, they cost the government $900 billion this year in
forgone revenue and would cost the Treasury $12 trillion over
the next decade.  “If you didn’t know anything about the U.S. individual
income tax, you might be surprised at the magnitudes involved,”
Holtz-Eakin said.  The health insurance tax preference is the largest at $248
billion this year, or 1.5 percent of the gross domestic product.  Because the benefits of the tax breaks are spread unevenly
across income groups, changing the rules could alter the
distribution of the nation’s tax burden.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  