-- Inox Wind May Expand India Manufacturing Plants Next Year
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-05-29T08:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/inox-wind-may-expand-india-manufacturing-plants-next-year.html
Inox Wind Ltd.,  India ’s fourth-largest wind turbine supplier, may spend 1.5 billion rupees ($27
million) to expand capacity at two plants in Gujarat state as it
targets greater market share.  The company, whose customers include  Oil India Ltd. (OINL)  and
Welspun Energy Ltd., may boost capacity to 800 megawatts from
its rotor blade and tower factories in the western India state,
from 500 megawatts this year, said Devansh Jain, director of
Inox, based in Noida, near New Delhi.  “We’re waiting for some clarity on the policy front,” he
said yesterday in a phone interview. Should the government
reinstate a wind-farm subsidy as promised, that would stoke the
additional demand necessary to justify an expansion, Jain said.  India, the world’s third-biggest market for wind turbines,
installed 1,700 megawatts of wind capacity last year, 32 percent
short of its target after the government withdrew a tax break
and generation-based subsidy for wind farms,  according to  the
Ministry of New and Renewable Energy. The government pledged to
reinstate the subsidy in February though it has yet to do so.  Inox plans to nearly double installations to 500 megawatts
in the financial year ending March 31 amid a shakeup that’s
causing weaker turbine suppliers to halt production. The number
of manufacturers that installed machines last year fell by 42
percent to 11 with the top five controlling 90 percent of the
market, according to data from the Indian Wind Turbine
Manufacturers’ Association.  Turbine prices in India are among the lowest in the world
averaging between 57 million rupees to 60 million rupees per
megawatt, Jain said. That’s unlikely to fall much lower as most
turbine suppliers are losing money amid thin margins, he said.  Inox’s board is evaluating “alternatives for raising
capital by any permissible modes,” according to a May 9 filing
by Inox’s parent,  Gujarat Fluorochemicals Ltd. (GFLC)  Jain declined to
elaborate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  