-- Inpex, Rosneft Agree on Oil, Gas Exploration in Okhotsk Sea
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-05-29T05:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/inpex-rosneft-agree-on-oil-gas-exploration-in-okhotsk-sea.html
Inpex Corp. (1605) , Japan’s biggest energy
explorer, and Russia’s OAO Rosneft signed a preliminary
agreement to develop oil and gas blocks in the Sea of Okhotsk.  A venture will be set up to explore the Magadan-2 and
Magadan-3 offshore blocks near Magadan city in far eastern
Russia once final accords are signed, Inpex  said  in a statement.
The blocks, located in the northern part of the Sea of Okhotsk
at a depth of 120 meters (394 feet) to 180 meters, are estimated
to hold recoverable resources of about 1,577 million metric tons
of oil equivalent, state-run Rosneft  said  in a statement.  Inpex follows rivals such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  in
partnering with Rosneft to explore Russia’s Arctic shelf. Japan,
which imports more than 80 percent of its oil from the  Middle
East , is trying to diversify supply after the Fukushima disaster
in March 2011 forced the country to buy more fossil fuels.  “Partnership between Rosneft and Inpex will contribute
significantly not only to the development of the Russian  Far
East , but also to the development of economic relations between
Russia and Japan, and will strengthen energy security of our
partners,” Rosneft President  Igor Sechin  said in the statement.  Under the initial agreement signed between Sechin and Inpex
President Toshiaki Kitamura in Tokyo today, the Japanese company
will hold a 33.33 percent stake in the exploration project,
according to Rosneft’s statement. The Japanese company will
finance geological exploration work at the two blocks, according
to Rosneft.  Project Finance  Japan Oil, Gas & Metals National Corp., a Japanese
government-affiliated company known as JOGMEC, will pay as much
as 75 percent of the costs during exploration, the Yomiuri
newspaper reported earlier today. The  Japan Bank for
International Cooperation  will help finance the project at the
full development stage, the Yomiuri said.  Final agreements are expected to be signed by the end of
2013, Rosneft said.  Japan imported about 181 million tons a year of crude in
2012, according to data compiled by the trade and industry
ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in  Tokyo  at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  