-- Intensive-Care Patients Need Treatment to Stop Deadly Bug
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-05-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/intensive-care-patients-need-treatment-to-stop-deadly-bug.html
Disinfecting all intensive-care
patients to remove potentially deadly  bacteria  can prevent
infections better than testing for a superbug and targeting only
those who carry it, researchers said.  Patients in hospital intensive-care units are particularly
vulnerable, weakened so that normally harmless microbes can make
them ill and sensitive to acquiring infections from others.
Hospitals in the U.S. typically test for bacteria like
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus when patients are
admitted and isolate those who show signs of harboring it to
stop the spread.  The approach doesn’t help the carriers, according to
research published in the  New England Journal of Medicine  that
shows it also isn’t ideal for preventing more infections.
Instead, bathing every patient with anti-microbial soap and
using a topical antibiotic ointment for five days to kill
reservoirs in the nose reduced infection rates 44 percent, the
study found.  “This is the answer to a long-debated question: Do we
target every superbug one by one or try to protect a certain
patient group from all disease,”  Susan Huang , the lead
researcher and associate professor in infectious disease at the
University of  California ,  Irvine , School of Medicine, said in a
telephone interview. “Targeting high-risk patients seems to be
the better way to go. Universal decontamination is the easiest
and most effective way to prevent infection.”  HCA Hospitals  The research released yesterday involved 74,256 patients at
43 hospitals across the country owned by Nashville, Tennessee-based  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , the largest for-profit U.S. hospital
chain. The study examined three methods to control hospital-acquired infections, a main cause of preventable illness and
death. Reducing infections has become a focus of the U.S.
government, which put policies in place to penalize institutions
with high infection levels.  The researchers found no benefit in preventing bloodstream
infections with the most commonly used approach of testing and
isolating patients with MRSA. Testing and treating only those
who carried the bacteria was more effective, though not as much
as universally treating patients to eradicate all types of
microbes, regardless of whether they showed signs of MRSA, the
investigators found.  The finding should have immediate implications, Huang said.
Each MRSA infection can boost health-care costs by $20,000 as
doctors fight the bug and work to stop it from spreading. The
universal treatment approach was relatively inexpensive and
yielded an unexpectedly dramatic benefit, she said.  All Infections  “I really believe that this should be adopted by many, if
not most hospitals as a way to reduce infections from all
pathogens, not just these superbugs,” she said.  HCA has started using the approach at its hospitals, which
account for about 5 percent of all inpatient care in the U.S.,
she said.  The patients were treated with intranasal mupirocin, a
generic antibiotic, for five days and bathed with cloths that
contained the antimicrobial drug  chlorhexidine  for their entire
stay. The approach would prevent 1 bloodstream infection for
every 54 patients who were treated, the researchers calculated.
The reduction in MRSA infections was similar to the decrease in
all infections, though it wasn’t statistically significant.  The study resolves one of the most controversial issues in
infection control for the past decade and should lead to the
repeal of laws in nine states requiring MRSA screening, said
 Michael Edmond  and Richard Wenzel from Virginia Commonwealth
University School of Medicine’s division of infectious diseases
in Richmond.  Isolation ‘Unfriendly’  Patients shouldn’t be isolated, an “unfriendly” practice
that can interfere with care, they wrote in an editorial
accompanying the study.  The findings should bolster the argument for treating all
patients “to control not only the pathogens of today but those
of tomorrow as well,” they wrote. They also cautioned against
universal use of mupirocin because resistance can develop,
making the drug less effective.  Huang agreed that doctors should closely monitor patients
to ensure drug resistance doesn’t develop. Since the medicine
isn’t currently used to treat active infections, however, she
said its use doesn’t have to be limited.  “These agents aren’t used to treat disease,” she said.
“These are topical agents to get things off the skin and out of
the nose. We haven’t lost an antibiotic we would traditionally
use if resistance develops.”  The Agency for Healthcare Research and the U.S.  Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention  funded the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  