-- Italian Killed by Military Bullet, Thai Court Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-05-29T06:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/italian-killed-by-military-bullet-thai-court-says.html
A Thai court said a military bullet
killed an Italian photojournalist during 2010 protests, the
first ruling involving a foreigner as authorities seek to
determine how more than 90 people died in the demonstrations.  Fabio Polenghi was among two foreign journalists shot and
killed while covering military assaults on anti-government
protesters in Bangkok. Former Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva 
and a deputy face murder charges for authorizing soldiers to use
weapons against demonstrators backed by ex-leader  Thaksin Shinawatra  who wanted immediate elections in May 2010.  “I am satisfied with the court result,” Karom
Ponpornklang, a lawyer for Polenghi’s mother, told reporters
after the ruling. “Fabio’s mother is also happy that she
finally knows the cause of her son’s death. There are many
parties who show interest to bring this case to an Italian
court. Still, we need to discuss that later.”  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra led her party to victory
in a vote 14 months after the protests, the fifth straight win
for allies of her brother Thaksin and the seventh loss in a row
for Abhisit’s Democrat party dating back to 1992. Her party is
considering amnesty for some demonstrators involved in tit-for-tat protests since Thaksin’s ouster in a 2006 coup and is
pushing to change the military-influenced constitution.  The bullet that killed Fabio was from an M-16 gun, which is
consistent with the weapons used by soldiers on May 19, 2010,
the court said. It is unclear who fired the bullet, it said.  Inquest Reports  Karom said he will take the inquest report to the
Department of Special Investigation and file a complaint against
former Deputy Prime Minister Suthep Thaugsuban, who was involved
in overseeing the operation.  Courts have ruled on nine of the 94 deaths from the 2010
protests. The military was held responsible for six deaths, and
three were inconclusive. A further 14 inquests are under way,
including for the death of Japanese cameraman Hiroyuki
Muramoto, according to a local group  monitoring  the cases.  Abhisit has denied wrongdoing in the crackdown and said
soldiers acted in self-defense when setting up live-fire zones
around the protest site. An emergency decree in place during the
protests provides him with immunity if the actions weren’t
discriminatory or disproportionate, he said in a January
interview, adding that a court confirmed that armed people were
among the protesters.  Fighting Charges  “I’m willing to face the charges and fight and prove my
innocence in court,” Abhisit said on Jan. 21. “And I will
respect the verdict.” Abhisit took power in a 2008
parliamentary vote after a court dissolved the ruling party for
election fraud.  The DSI, an agency under the Justice Ministry, has charged
leaders of the pro-Thaksin protest group known as the  Red Shirts 
with terrorism and initiated cases against about 300 of its
members for crimes including arson.  In a May 19 rally in Bangkok to commemorate those who died,
Red Shirt representatives asked Yingluck to issue an order that
would grant amnesty to people who face charges related to the
protests, except for demonstration leaders.  “However, the culprit who ordered the killing of more than
90 peaceful protesters must be punished to the full extent of
the law so that this hideous crime will never again be committed
in the future,” Red Shirt leader Tida Tawonseth said in a
 statement . “No more Thais should ever again be shot down in the
streets for their political interest.”  Polenghi, 48, was wearing a blue helmet with the word
“Press” written across the front and back, and a green armband
indicating he was a working journalist,  according  to the
Committee to Protect Journalists.  “Fabio was a peaceful man, and I believe in peace,”
Elisabetta Polenghi, Fabio’s sister, told reporters in Bangkok
before the verdict. “My brother was very deeply involved into
what was happening. He was emotionally involved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  