-- Japan’s 400-Year-Old Builder Seeks Profit Boost on New Demand
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-05-29T02:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/japan-s-400-year-old-builder-seeks-profit-boost-on-new-demand.html
Takenaka Corp., the 400-year-old
Japanese construction company founded by a shrine and temple
carpenter, plans to focus on growth areas, such as hospitals,
and Southeast Asia to counter declines in profits.  “We are at a point where we must consider ways to
anticipate new demand going forward,” Masahiro Miyashita, 66,
the first president in the company’s history who is from outside
the Takenaka family, said in an interview on May 24. “I am
going to try my best to work on boosting our performance in the
next couple of years.”  Closely held Takenaka will explore new building and
engineering techniques to help it win deals, said Miyashita, who
became president in March after the Osaka-based company reported
two straight years of profit declines. The company, which built
Tokyo Tower,  Tokyo Dome (9681)  and Tokyo Midtown Complex, is seeing an
increase in inquires since Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s pledge to
end deflation and boost the economy, he said.  Takenaka’s effort to reinvent itself coincides with a
recovery in  Japan ’s construction industry after the March 2011
earthquake. Orders rose for a second straight year in the 12
months to March 31 after declining for four consecutive years,
according to the Japan Federation of Construction Contractors.
The recovery was helped by the government’s pledge to spend 3.8
trillion yen ($37 billion) for rebuilding and disaster
prevention on top of 19 trillion yen already budgeted.  ‘Tough Time’  Still, rising building costs as commodity prices surged and
strong demand in Japan’s northeastern region after the quake
pushed up prices of construction materials may hinder the
effort, said  Yoji Otani , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG.  “The construction industry is facing a very tough time
that is unprecedented,” said Tokyo-based Otani. “While this
year, construction orders and investments are expected to grow
as public spending increases and the private sector recovers,
the most difficult challenge for Takenaka and other construction
companies is margin squeeze due to labor and building material
increases.”  Public works and orders from the private sector fell to
10.5 trillion yen as of March from 26.7 trillion yen in March
1991, according to the construction contractors federation.  ‘Main Problem’  The Topix Construction Index, whose members include  Kajima
Corp. (1812)  and  Obayashi Corp. (1802) , Japan’s biggest construction
companies, has gained 22 percent this year after rising 32
percent in 2012. That compares with the 41 percent gain by the
Topix Real Estate Index tracking 44 property companies.  “The main problem is that the construction companies can’t
differentiate themselves from others,” said Deutsche Bank’s
Otani. “Real estate companies tend to go with bidders that
offered lowest prices. Keeping prices low is the only way the
construction companies can get projects.”  This is not the first time Takenaka, founded in 1610, is
trying to find ways to grow its business amid difficult times.
After the Tokyo Olympics in 1964 and the oil shock in the 1970s,
orders from the government were reduced, according to the
company. That is when new building techniques, such as
constructing high-rise buildings and structures that support
large, empty spaces, were developed, it said.  Profit Recovery  Takenaka’s profit fell 55 percent to 5.3 billion yen in
2010 and declined 58 percent to 2.3 billion yen in 2011, the
company said. In 2012, profit more than doubled to 6.1 billion
yen after public spending rose in earthquake-affected regions.  The builder will focus to meet increasing demand to
rebuild hospitals and nursing homes in an aging society
following the disaster, Miyashita said.  “Making sure that hospitals are all safe and quake-resistant, and can be operated after disasters is a big issue
going forward,” he said, adding that it will require developing
and researching new engineering techniques.  The company, which has helped build projects overseas, such
as Grand Hyatt Kauai Resort & Spa in  Hawaii  and Hotel Nikko San
Francisco, will also seek opportunities in Southeast Asia, where
it sees faster economic growth, Miyashita said.  Company founder  Takenaka Tobei Masataka  served Oda
Nobunaga, who initiated the unification of Japan in the late
16th century, and decided to become a temple and shrine
carpenter after the death of his master.  “We would like to keep our traditions, as well as our
ability to innovate,” said Miyashita. “The two may seem to be
contradicting of each other, but we have proven ourselves in the
past by finding ways to make progress while maintaining our
tradition. We must continue to do so going forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  