-- Asia Issuers Pay Most Since July for Dollars as Treasuries Fall
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-05-29T03:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/japan-australia-bond-risk-declines-credit-default-swaps-show.html
Borrowers in Asia are  paying  the most
in more than 10 months to sell U.S. dollar-denominated bonds
after Treasuries fell.  Debt sold by companies and sovereigns from the region rose
4 basis points yesterday to yield an average 4.452 percent, the
most since July 13, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.
The yield on 10-year U.S. government debt rose to the highest
since April 2012 as of 5:03 p.m. in New York, Bloomberg Bond
Trader data show.  Tokyo  Metropolitan Government plans to price five-year
bonds today, a person familiar with the matter said, after new
debt sales in Asia outside Japan slumped more than 70 percent
last week. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said May 22
the central bank could slow the pace of asset purchases if
officials see indications of sustained improvement in growth.
Yields on Asian debt have climbed 14 basis points since,
JPMorgan indexes show.  “Rising U.S. Treasury yields are making Asian credit
investors a tad nervous,” said Mark Reade, a Hong Kong-based
credit analyst at Credit Agricole CIB. “Any further surge in
yields could potentially see an unwind of the U.S. dollar ‘carry
trade’ which has driven the outperformance of higher yielding
assets globally, including Asian credit.”  Benchmark (USGG10YR)  10-year yields climbed 16 basis points, or 0.16
percentage point, to 2.17 percent in New York trading earlier
today. A $35 billion sale of two-year debt attracted the least
 bids  for the securities since February 2011 after reports showed
stronger-than-forecast economic data, damping demand for refuge
assets.  Sentiment Improves  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. climbed to the highest
level in more than five years and home prices advanced by the
most in seven as the housing rebound gives the world’s biggest
economy a lift. The Conference Board’s sentiment index rose to
76.2 in May, exceeding all estimates in a Bloomberg survey of
economists and the highest since February 2008, data from the
New York-based private research group showed May 28.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  rose 1 basis point to 107 basis points
as of 8:18 a.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices show. The measure, which touched a one-month high on May
27 before falling yesterday, is now down 0.5 of a basis point
since April 30, CMA data show.  Tokyo Met is marketing its notes at about 50 basis points
more than swaps, the person familiar with the matter said,
asking not to be identified because the terms aren’t set.  The cost of insuring corporate bonds in Japan and Australia
against non-payment fell, according to credit-default swap
traders.  Credit Risk  The Markit iTraxx Japan index declined 2 basis points to 87
as of 9:15 a.m. in Tokyo, according to Citigroup Inc. prices.
The gauge is falling for a second day after reaching a five-week
high on May 27, paring its advance for the month to 3.5 basis
points, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx  Australia  index dropped 2 basis points to
105 basis points as of 10:23 a.m. in Sydney, according to
National Australia Bank Ltd. prices. The benchmark is poised to
close at its lowest level since May 23, down 1 basis point this
month, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  