-- Japan’s Bond Market Wants BOJ to Purchase More Short-Term
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-05-29T09:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/japan-s-bond-market-wants-boj-to-purchase-more-short-term.html
Traders of Japanese government bonds
want the central bank to buy more short-term notes and to
conduct purchases more frequently, according to Bank of Japan
officials after a meeting with market participants.  The attendees said the BOJ should increase buying of one-to-five year notes and suggested smaller purchases at each
operation, a BOJ official told reporters in  Tokyo , asking not to
be named, citing the central bank’s policy. The average duration
of bond purchases now is about seven years, the official said.  The BOJ is trying to steady a debt market where volatility
has risen to the highest in four years in the wake of
unprecedented monetary easing steps last month. Today’s
gathering with bond market participants is the third under the
tenure of Governor Haruhiko Kuroda, who last week reiterated a
pledge to improve communication on central bank policy.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Japanese government bond
jumped to a more than one-year high of 1 percent last week, even
after the BOJ pledged to double bond purchases to end 15 years
of deflation in the world’s third-largest economy. Kuroda
indicated this week that  Japan  can weather an increase in yields
if it occurs alongside an economic recovery.  Japan’s Topix Index of shares has surged more than 60
percent since the middle of November amid optimism for expanded
fiscal and monetary stimulus under Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and
Kuroda at the central bank. Even so, rising JGB yields threaten
the sustainability of what’s already the world’s largest debt
burden and undermine the government’s aim to stoke growth
through low borrowing costs.  Excessive Volatility  Participants at the meeting with the BOJ today said
excessive volatility in the bond market wasn’t desirable,
according to the central bank official. The BOJ will release its
bond-operation plan for June tomorrow, the official said.  Implied volatility of Japan’s 10-year note futures, a
measure of expected moves used to price options, climbed to 7.23
percent yesterday, the highest since November 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. A sale of 20-year debt yesterday
drew the lowest demand since August 2012.  The 10-year JGB yield rose three basis points to 0.935
percent today, the highest close since April 2012, and following
a 7 1/2-basis-point surge yesterday. The rate has almost tripled
from the record low 0.315 percent reached on April 5.  After meetings with market representatives last month, the
BOJ revised its monthly  bond purchases  to “approximately 7+
trillion yen” ($69 billion) per month from an earlier estimate
of 7.5 trillion yen.  ‘Strongly Support’  BOJ policy board member Ryuzo Miyao said yesterday that the
central bank’s bond buying will “ strongly support ” growth by
keeping interest rates lower even when improved economic
prospects put upward pressure on borrowing costs.  So far, policy makers are getting the opposite results. As
JGB yields climbed, the benchmark lending rate for large
corporations, known as the  prime rate , rose 10 basis points from
its record low to 1.25 percent on May 10, according to Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. Rates for 35-year  home loans  inched higher
to 1.81 percent this month from an all-time low of 1.8 percent
in April, data from the Japan Housing Finance Agency show.  For supporters of Abenomics like Jesper Koll, JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s head of equity research in Tokyo, the rise in JGB
yields is a “healthy sign” that the economy is improving and
investors are seeking riskier assets. For J. Kyle Bass, whose
Hayman Advisors LP made $500 million amid the U.S. subprime
crisis and is now betting on a fiscal collapse in Japan, it
means the BOJ will have to “dramatically” increase bond-buying
efforts to counteract investor selling.  Gross Tweet  “The BOJ dominates asset markets for better or worse,”
 Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific
Investment Management Co., said in a post on Twitter. “Watch
JGBs, the yen and the exodus from each.”  Japan’s outstanding debt was 991.6 trillion yen at the end
of March, a ministry report showed this month. It’s projected to
reach 245 percent of gross domestic product this year, according
to an International Monetary Fund estimate, the highest ratio in
the world.  Minutes released this week of the BOJ’s April 26 meeting
showed divisions on the policy board, where “a few” members
see difficulties meeting a 2 percent price goal by the end of
March 2016. One member said the bond market could become
unstable again, while others said that swings in financial
markets had been triggered by perceptions that the BOJ had
conflicting goals -- trying to push down interest rates while
pursuing inflation.  ‘Bullish Expectations’  There are no signs investors have “excessively bullish
expectations,” Kuroda said in Tokyo on May 26. He cited an
April BOJ report indicating rates could rise by between one and
three percentage points in an improving economy without causing
financial instability.  Kuroda’s BOJ has shown it will step into bond markets to
stem volatility. When JGB yields touched 1 percent on May 23 and
a plunge in bond futures set off a circuit breaker on the stock
exchange, the central bank supplied 2 trillion yen to the
financial system, its second such market-calming infusion this
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  