-- Japanese Housewives Cooling on Aussie Uridashi
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-05-30T04:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/japanese-housewives-cooling-on-aussie-uridashi.html
Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor
 Glenn Stevens  has gone an interest-rate cut too far for Mrs.
Watanabe, as  Japan ’s households look closer to home for returns.  Aussie uridashi sales slumped 71 percent to A$1.8 billion
($1.7 billion) this year, even as A$9.4 billion in such debt
matures in 2013, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The currency
accounted for 9.8 percent of bonds offered to Japanese
individuals this year, compared with 64 percent for yen
offerings and a total of 28 percent since 2006. Japanese
investors cut Aussie debt holdings by a record 1.7 trillion yen
($17 billion) in the five months through March, Ministry of
Finance data show.  Japanese individual investors, a group often nicknamed Mrs.
Watanabe because many are housewives, are piling into local
assets as unprecedented  Bank of Japan  monetary easing drives the
best equities gains in the developed world. Pacific Investment
Management Co. said yesterday Stevens is likely to lower the
RBA’s benchmark interest rate again after cutting it on May 7 to
a record 2.75 percent. The yield premium benchmark Australian
bonds offer over Japan’s touched a half-year low this month.  “What is becoming clear is that Japan is falling out of
love with new buying of Australian dollar assets,” Martin Whetton, a Sydney-based interest-rate strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc., wrote in a May 25 e-mail. “If the RBA continues
to cut rates, the investment is likely to remain light.”  Smaller Premium  Australia’s  10-year (GACGB10)  yield fell four basis points to 3.43
percent today. The premium over similar-dated U.S. notes has
shrunk 12 basis points this month to 130 basis points and
touched 116 on May 28, the narrowest gap since November 2008.
The  spread  to equivalent Japanese  government bonds  fell to 237
basis points on May 17, the least since Nov. 19, 2012.  The RBA probably will be forced to lower rates again as a
record mining boom ends,  China  growth slows and the government
curbs spending to rein in deficits, according to Pimco, which
manages the world’s biggest bond fund.  “To stimulate some of the domestic growth candidates like
non-mining business investment, household consumption and
housing construction, we believe the RBA will need to provide
meaningfully easy policy rates,” Adam Bowe and  Robert Mead ,
Sydney-based portfolio managers for Pimco, wrote in a report.  The Aussie bought 96.59 U.S. cents as of 1:36 p.m. in
Sydney. It touched 95.28 cents yesterday, the weakest since
October 2011.  Nikkei Entices  Yen-denominated uridashi issuance since 2006 has climbed to
$80.4 billion, overtaking the $76.5 billion of Aussie debt, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Uridashi are Euro market bonds
issued for sale to individual investors in Japan.  Uridashi sales this year totaled $17.9 billion across 13
currencies, the data show. Toyota Motor Corp.’s Australian
finance unit led Aussie-denominated sales with a A$219 million
offering on Jan. 16 of 3.32 percent securities.  Of the 314 yen-denominated uridashi bonds sold this year,
241 were linked to the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  or had a
Japanese equity as their underlying security, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The Nikkei soared 33 percent this year.
Portfolio investors bought 59.5 billion yen of equity securities
in the Japanese currency in March, the most in five years,
according to government figures.  Popularity Fades  Aussie-dollar uridashi offerings amounted to $6.1 billion
last year, or 14 percent of the total. Issuance in the currency
peaked at more than $11 billion in 2010, when it was 28 percent
of offerings, according to Bloomberg-compiled figures. In
contrast, the proportion of yen-denominated uridashi notes
climbed to 55 percent in 2012 from 31 percent two years earlier.  “As a typical high-yielding currency, the Australian
dollar had been quite popular among individual investors,” said
Toru Suehiro, a Tokyo-based market economist at Mizuho
Securities Co. “Now, its popularity is falling in relative
terms due to monetary easing by the RBA.”  The Aussie dropped below $1 on May 10 after staying above
the level for a record 10 months. It declined 6.7 percent this
month, the biggest tumble among the Group of 10 major developed
currencies.  The currency’s slump follows the RBA’s decision to reduce
the overnight cash rate target to the lowest level in the
central bank’s 53-year history. The board “judged that a
further decline in the cash rate was appropriate to encourage
sustainable growth in the economy,”  Governor Stevens  said in a
statement on May 7.  Economic Weakness  Data this month signaled the South Pacific nation’s non-mining economy may not be strong enough to withstand an expected
crest in resources investment this year. Retail sales
unexpectedly declined 0.4 percent in March from the previous
month and construction work fell 2 percent in the first quarter,
the biggest drop since 2011, government reports showed. The
statistics bureau said today  capital spending  declined 4.7
percent in the three months ended March 31 from the earlier
quarter.  The Aussie is also tumbling on signs of a shift in the
global outlook. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
last week the U.S. central bank may cut the pace of bond
purchases at the next few meetings if they see indications of
sustained improvement in economic growth. The Fed buys $85
billion of Treasury and mortgage debt a month in a policy known
as quantitative easing, which tends to debase the  U.S. dollar .  China Concern  In China, Australia’s biggest trading partner, government
reports this month showed a slowdown in manufacturing and
smaller-than-expected gains in industrial production.  Australian government bonds delivered a 4.4 percent loss to
yen-based investors this month, the worst performance other than
 South Africa  among 24 markets tracked by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  “What the RBA has done is amongst other factors such as a
softer China, a sense that the U.S. may be stepping back
somewhat from its aggressive QE and domestic weakness in
Australia,” said  Robert Rennie , a Sydney-based chief currency
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. “All those points together
have definitely made the Aussie dollar less attractive to
Japanese investors.”  Traders see a 24 percent chance Stevens will cut the rate
to 2.5 percent next week and are pricing in a 73 percent chance
it will be at that level or lower by October,  interest-rate
swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While Australia’s benchmark borrowing costs remain the
highest among advanced economies and compare with near-zero
rates in the U.S. and Japan, a decline to 2.5 percent would
bring them in line with  New Zealand ’s rate.  “Since the RBA’s rate cut, outflows from Australian dollar
bond funds have increased,” said Yoshisada Ishide, the Tokyo-based manager of the Daiwa SB Short-Term Australian Dollar Bond
Open Fund, the biggest fund dedicated to Australia with $8.5
billion in assets. “Investors are selling because they see the
Aussie’s yield advantage declining further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  