-- Jive Seen Luring Suitors Such as IBM, Oracle: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-05-29T16:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/jive-seen-luring-suitors-such-as-ibm-oracle-real-m-a.html
Jive Software Inc. (JIVE) , which is growing
three times faster than its peers, may become a takeover target
for International Business Machines Corp. or  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  after
luring the attention of  SAP AG. (SAP)   Jive rallied 5.6 percent, the most in three months, on May
24 after  Bloomberg News  reported that SAP recently considered
buying the $1.1 billion company before deciding there was too
much product overlap. The  Palo Alto , California-based developer
of software that helps employees collaborate may now lure other
suitors, including IBM and Oracle, because of its prospects for
increasing revenue, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  Jive is forecast to boost sales by 119 percent during the
next three years, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  already bought a business similar to
Jive last year, paying $1.2 billion for Yammer Inc., and Jive’s
chief executive officer sold his last software venture to
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  for about $4.5 billion.  With SAP, “even if the talks were abandoned, it shows that
there’s interest,”  Steve Ashley , a Milwaukee-based analyst with
Robert W. Baird & Co., said in a telephone interview. “They are
the leader in the social collaboration space for businesses, and
they have the strongest offering and most differentiated
offering in that new, emerging market.”  Amanda Pires, a spokeswoman at Jive, said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation, when asked whether it’s been
approached by suitors.  SAP Talks  SAP, the world’s largest maker of business-management
software, held discussions within recent weeks to acquire Jive,
according to people familiar with the matter, who asked not to
be named because the talks were private. The Walldorf, Germany-based company, which is one of Jive’s biggest  customers , decided
Jive’s products overlapped too much with its own and wouldn’t
add enough market share, one of the people said.  Jive shares  jumped  as much as 8.8 percent on May 24
following the report that SAP considered an acquisition. The
stock slipped 1.1 percent yesterday to $16.48, still 4.4 percent
higher than its May 23 closing price.  Today, Jive added 2 percent to $16.81, which would be the
highest closing level in 11 weeks, at 12:09 p.m. New York time.
The gain was the second-biggest advance among software stocks in
the Russell 3000 Index.  The company provides businesses with social-networking
software -- similar to Facebook Inc.’s platform for consumers --
that helps employees interact more efficiently than traditional
e-mail services.  ‘Really Great’  “Jive is really one of the very few players that’s
independent with a really great product platform that can fit
neatly into any larger company,” Michael Nemeroff, an analyst
with Credit Suisse in New York, said in a phone interview. “The
two natural suitors that come to mind are  IBM (IBM)  and Oracle.”  Kirk Adams, founder and director of equity analysis at
Denver-based Wedge Partners Corp., also sees IBM and Oracle as
potential suitors for Jive.  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , which like IBM and Oracle offers a
product similar to Jive, could also benefit from an acquisition
of the company, Nemeroff said.  “Salesforce doesn’t have nearly all the features that Jive
currently offers,” he said.  Representatives at Armonk, New York-based IBM;  Redwood
City , California-based Oracle; and Salesforce.com of  San
Francisco  declined to comment on whether Jive appeals to them.  Growth Forecasts  Jive, which has never generated an annual  profit , had $114
million of  revenue  last year. On average, analysts forecast Jive
will more than double sales by the end of 2015, beating the
median projected growth rate of only 38 percent among similar-sized application software makers,  data  compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Jive is operating in a fast-growing segment of the  software
industry . Forrester Research Inc. estimated in 2011 that the
market for social enterprise software will grow about 60 percent
annually through 2016, when it will total $6.4 billion.  “Jive has been considered one of the best high-end
solutions in the market, and their product line is something
that’s hard to replicate,”  Brent Thill , a San Francisco-based
analyst with UBS AG, said in a phone interview. “It’s still in
rapid growth the next couple of years.”  Short sellers have reduced bets that the company’s shares
will decline, cutting the proportion of bearish wagers on the
stock to 3.3 percent of shares outstanding from a peak of more
than 10 percent last year, according to  data  compiled by Markit.  Limited Benefit  As major software providers build their own social
enterprise products, both the need for and benefit from an
acquisition of Jive diminishes, according to Brett Fodero, a New
York-based analyst at Lazard Capital Markets LLC.  “You saw that with SAP passing on a deal,” Fodero said in
a phone interview. “While Jive has what we would consider a
leadership position from a technology standpoint and they’ve
been doing some good things to differentiate themselves, as of
late there is a lot of overlap. All of the major enterprise
players have some type of competing product.”  While others are trying to compete with Jive, it’s still
the leader, and its  management  team has a history of finding
acquirers, said Adams of  Wedge Partners .  Jive CEO Tony Zingale previously ran Mercury Interactive
Corp., which he sold to Hewlett-Packard in 2006. Some current
 executives  at Jive worked for Zingale at Mercury. Zingale was
also CEO of Clarify Inc., which Nortel Networks Corp. agreed to
buy for about $2.1 billion in 1999.  “It’s a very well-seasoned management team that’s had
plenty of M&A experience,” Adams said in a phone interview. “A
lot of firms are putting the pieces together to build a social-enterprise offering, and while the pieces are there, what Jive
has done is put together a more comprehensive solution at this
point. The bigger firms can probably improve their offerings
with Jive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  