-- Julius Baer, Turkey Fees, Swiss Boutiques: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-05-29T12:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/julius-baer-turkey-fees-swiss-boutiques-compliance.html
Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , Switzerland’s
third-largest wealth manager, informed some American clients
that their accounts meet the criteria of a U.S. request for data
amid a  Justice Department  offshore  tax-evasion  probe.  The U.S. Internal Revenue Service is seeking information on
accounts of Americans “owned through a domiciliary company”
and held at any time between the beginning of 2002 and the end
of last year, the Zurich-based bank wrote in a letter obtained
by  Bloomberg News  and dated May 16.  Julius Baer is working on a request for information from
Switzerland’s tax authority under a 1996  tax treaty  with the
U.S., Sabine Jaenecke, a spokeswoman for the bank, said
yesterday. She declined to comment on a report in Neue Zuercher
Zeitung that more than 100  Julius Baer  clients were affected.  Julius Baer is one of at least 14 Swiss financial firms
 under investigation  by the Justice Department for allegedly
helping Americans hide money from the IRS. A Swiss court ruled
in March that Switzerland could hand over account data under the
1996 tax deal, paving the way for information transfers by banks
and raising the possibility of a breakthrough in two-year-old
Swiss-U.S. talks to resolve the probe.  “We confirm the receipt of a request for information from
the Federal Tax Administration in Switzerland based on the
effective double-taxation agreement between Switzerland and the
U.S.,” Jaenecke said in an e-mailed statement. “We are
currently working on the request from the Swiss authority.”  Switzerland, the biggest haven for offshore wealth, wants
to prevent another bank being indicted after Wegelin & Co.
pleaded guilty in a Manhattan federal court in January to
conspiring to help conceal more than $1.2 billion from the IRS.  Julius Baer approached U.S. officials in bid to clinch
agreement similar to that secured by UBS AG to shield it from
prosecution after it accepted undeclared money from U.S.
taxpayers, Tages-Anzeiger reports, citing “several independent
sources”.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Banks Rebuked for Spin Tactics as Denmark Slams Sifi Pleas  Denmark’s government lashed out at the nation’s banks for
deploying what it called spin tactics to try to persuade policy
makers to delay regulatory reform.  The nation’s financial industry, which says Denmark risks
stalling a recovery by moving ahead with too-big-to-fail rules
faster than the European Union, is misleading politicians and
businesses with its rhetoric, Economy Minister  Margrethe
Vestager  said. She ruled out slowing down steps toward stricter
requirements for systemically important lenders and reiterated
her stance that banks won’t get tax breaks to help them through
the transition.  Vestager said May 27 in an interview in Copenhagen that it
would be “spin to say Denmark is a first mover on financial
regulation.”  Denmark’s biggest banks are urging lawmakers to block a
March proposal by a government-appointed committee on how to
treat systemically important financial institutions. The Sifi
committee says the nation’s six biggest banks must hold as much
as 5 percent extra capital against their risk-weighted assets.
The banks say such requirements are only fair if matched by a
guarantee they’ll be exempt from Denmark’s bail-in rule.  The industry, led by  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  and Nykredit A/S, also
argues the proposal puts Denmark at the forefront of regulatory
reform at a time when businesses are struggling to gain access
to credit made more costly by stricter rules. The EU has yet to
unveil standards for its too-big-to-fail lenders.  Banks warn the result of not waiting risks turning into a
replay of Denmark’s 2010 decision to pioneer bail-in legislation
in the EU, a move that left most of the industry shut out of
wholesale funding markets.  Turkey Bank Profit Dropkicked as Overdraft Rates Capped  Turkey capped the interest rate lenders can charge on
overdrafts, fueling speculation banks will face additional
regulatory measures that risk eroding  profits  and sending bond
yields higher.  Overdraft rates will be subject to the central bank’s 2.22
percent upper limit on credit cards, policy makers said on May
25. That compared with as much as 5 percent the largest banks
charge on overdrafts, data compiled by Bloomberg from company
websites showed.  A banking association official declined to comment, while
representatives from Garanti, Vakifbank,  Isbank (ISCTR)  and  Yapi Kredi (YKBNK) 
weren’t immediately available to comment.  Turkish banks have faced mounting criticism about rates
they charge customers from government officials including
Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan, who was cited by the state-run
Anatolia news agency on May 22 as saying that interest is “the
mother of all evils.”  A draft law on consumer protection will give the banking
regulator the authority to impose limits on fees and commissions
as well, Customs Minister Hayati Yazici was cited as saying by
the state agency on May 12.  The central bank measures that took effect yesterday come
almost three months after Turkey’s antitrust board slapped a
collective fine of 1.12 billion liras on 12 banks, saying they
collaborated in setting  interest rates , deposit rates and
credit-card fees.  Separately, a new regulation published in Turkey’s Official
Gazette yesterday expanded the financing means for real estate
investment trusts, or REITs, the Capital Markets Board said in a
statement on its website.  The regulation imposes as a condition that at least 51
percent of REIT assets be comprised of real estate investments.
In addition, REITs only need regulatory approval for share
transfers that result in a change in control of management after
initial public offerings.  Compliance Action  Henderson Sees Swiss Tax Treaties Consolidating Asset Managers  Henderson Global Investors (HGG) , a U.K.-based investment firm
that manages 65.7 billion pounds ($99 billion), expects the
costs of complying with tax treaties and other regulation
requirements will lead to consolidation among Swiss asset
managers.  Ariane Dehn, who is head of sales at Henderson’s Zurich
office, said the cost of providing infrastructure will cause
boutique asset managers to struggle.  Switzerland, the biggest haven for offshore wealth, is in
talks with the U.S. as well as Germany in a bid to resolve
disputes over tax evasion, building pressure on banks to force
their customers to be tax compliant. The U.K. signed an accord
in 2011 which came into force this year in which Swiss banks
will pay 500 million Swiss francs ($515 million) to the U.K.
government to cover the failure by their clients to disclose
undeclared money in the past.  The investment firm, which manages around 2 billion francs
for Swiss clients and is a unit of Henderson Group Plc, adheres
to the requests for compliance it gets from its most important
clients, including banks with large wealth-management operations
and Swiss private banks.  Oil Probe That EU Says Mirrors Libor May Reveal Huge Damage  Oil-price manipulation may have wrought “huge” damage to
consumers, the European Union’s antitrust chief said yesterday,
as he drew comparisons with EU investigations into rigging of
bank rates including Libor.  While it’s too soon to draw conclusions from the May 14
raids on  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Statoil ASA (STL)  and Platts,
EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said both sets of
probe target price manipulation through a reporting system.  EU antitrust regulators arrived unannounced at Platts as
well as at  oil companies  in its investigation into possible
collusion by traders. Platts, whose U.K. operations at Canary
Wharf are in the same building as BP offices, provided data and
is cooperating with the inquiry. It continues to publish
benchmark prices including North Sea Dated Brent, against which
more than half the world’s crude is valued.  The three oil companies have all said they are cooperating
with the commission.  The EU oil probe, which extends to undisclosed crude-derived products and biofuels, underscores how pricing in some
energy markets lacks the transparency of financial products such
as stocks and U.S. corporate bonds. Almunia said the goal in
these investigations is “to make sure that the companies have
not colluded to manipulate their prices through a reporting
system.”  The EU’s investigations into benchmarks are running
alongside ones by U.S. and U.K. regulators who uncovered
widespread attempts by banks to manipulate Libor.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Platts and other companies in providing energy markets news and
information.  Iceland Regulator Concerned by HFF Bank Capital-Adequacy Ratio  The Housing Finance Fund, Iceland’s largest mortgage bank,
faces growing risk over its declining capital-adequacy ratio,
the island’s  Financial Supervisory Authority  said in an annual
report published on its website.  “The capital-adequacy ratio of the fund has decreased over
the past semesters and it’s posed with a significant repayment
risk, especially under the current interest-rate regime,” HHF
said in the report.  HFF, which provides mortgages linked to the inflation rate,
is losing business to commercial competitors such as Arion Banki
hf and  Islandsbanki hf , which are unfettered by such indexation.  The bank’s capital ratio was 3.2 percent of its risk-weighted assets at the end of last year, compared with a 5
percent regulatory minimum, the fund said in March.  Iceland, which let its biggest banks default on $85 billion
in 2008, said in February it would bail out the fund before it
became unable to honor its debts.  Courts  Ex-AIG Chief Greenberg Seeks End to ‘Dead’ Spitzer Fraud Case  Former  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  Chief Executive
Officer Maurice “Hank” Greenberg asked New York’s highest
court to clear his name and dismiss what remains of an eight-year-old lawsuit over an AIG accounting scandal.  The argument yesterday before the Court of Appeals in
Albany came after New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman
said that while he wants to hold Greenberg personally liable, he
no longer seeks money damages. He wants to bar Greenberg, 88,
from working in the securities industry or serving as an officer
or director of a public company.  Greenberg has long argued that the lawsuit, originally
filed by then-Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer , is groundless.
Schneiderman contends that Greenberg and former AIG Chief
Financial Officer Howard Smith bear responsibility for a sham
transaction with General Reinsurance Corp. in 2000 and 2001 that
inflated AIG’s loss reserves by $500 million.  New York State Solicitor General Barbara Underwood told the
court the state wants to “protect the markets of New York from
fraud” and “hold him accountable.”  Greenberg, who served in World War II and in Korea, has
squared off against three attorneys general in his fight to
defeat the lawsuit. Spitzer’s pursuit of the case forced
Greenberg to step down from AIG in 2005 after he spent four
decades building AIG into the world’s largest insurer.  Greenberg argues he got new ammunition on April 10 after a
federal judge in New York approved a $115 million settlement of
a class-action lawsuit, which resolved claims by AIG
shareholders against Greenberg, Smith and other defendants.  Greenberg attorney  David Boies  told the appeals court the
state is trying to keep the case alive “so they can delve into
it more after eight years of not finding anything.” He also
objected to what he called a change in tactics. The state argued
that it never waived its right to an injunction, or court order
limiting where Greenberg may work.  The case is State of New York v. Greenberg, 401720-2005,
New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Deutsche Telekom Wins Dismissal of $791 Million Data Suit  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  won dismissal of a lawsuit by the
founders of  Telegate AG (TGT)  seeking 612 million euros ($791 million)
over claims the phone company overcharged for directory data.  Klaus Harisch and Peter Wuensch can’t claim compensation,
the Cologne Regional Court ruled yesterday. They had argued that
the value of their Telegate shares had declined because Deutsche
Telekom had overcharged for the data. The court also rejected a
separate lawsuit by Telegate seeking 86 million euros over
similar claims.  Deutsche Telekom has defended lawsuits for almost a decade
by directory-service providers who said they were being charged
too much for the services and data that Germany’s former phone
monopoly was required by law to provide. The country’s top civil
court last year backed two lower court rulings requiring Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom to pay back a combined 97.2 million euros
in overcharged fees and legal costs.  Telegate, based in Munich, said in a statement that it
would appeal the ruling that applied to the company. Georg
Jochum, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, declined to immediately
comment.  The Cologne court’s press office declined to give reasons
for the judges’ ruling.  Yesterday’s cases are LG Koeln, 87 O 7/06 and 87 O 8/06.  Commerzbank’s Eurohypo Loses Suit Over Profit Certificates  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ’s Eurohypo unit must pay interest on profit
certificates to a private-equity firm and a U.S. hedge fund
after Germany’s top civil court ruled the lender was wrong to
stop payments on the securities in 2009.  Germany’s Federal Court of Justice yesterday backed rulings
won by Crown Ocean Capital Ltd. and QVT Financial LP.  Eurohypo stopped payments on the securities in 2009 after
recording a loss. The certificates were originally issued by
Rheinhyp AG and Hypothekenbank in Essen AG, which later became
part of Eurohypo. Commerzbank bought the real estate lender in
2005 for an estimated 5.9 billion euros ($7.6 billion). The unit
lost 3.5 billion euros in 2011 and is being wound down.  “The terms of the profit certificates didn’t have a rule
for what happened to them in a takeover, so they needed to be
adjusted,” Presiding Judge Alfred Bergmann said. “Since there
was a positive outlook at the time” of the takeover,
Commerzbank “must continue to fully pay interest.”  Commerzbank won’t comment until it receives the court’s
written judgment, Nils Happich, a spokesman for the Frankfurt-based bank, said in an e-mailed statement.  Josef Broich, a lawyer for QVT, said while he also hasn’t
seen the written judgment, the court press statement made it
clear “the Federal Court of Justice fully followed the
arguments we made from the beginning.”  Profit certificates are securities that entitle the holder
to a portion of a company’s profits while obliging them to share
in losses without giving them any ownership of the business.  The hearing yesterday was followed by more than a dozen
private investors who hold the securities.  Yesterday’s cases are BGH, II ZR 2/12 and II ZR 83/12.  Interviews  Jain Says Deutsche Bank ‘Considerably’ More Capitalized  Anshu Jain, co-chief executive officer of Deutsche Bank AG,
spoke in Frankfurt about the 2008 financial crisis, banking
rules and efficiencies.  For the video, click here.  Asmussen Says Monetary Union Needs Banking Union  European Central Bank Executive Board Member Joerg Asmussen
spoke in Frankfurt about a euro-area banking union, supervision
and financial stability.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Manhattan’s Vance Forms Financial Unit to Work With IRS, FBI  Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. has formed a
data-focused unit to help his office focus on the financial
aspects of criminal activity from street crime to cybercrime,
said David Szuchman, chief of the D.A.’s Investigation Division.  Twenty analysts assigned to the Financial Intelligence Unit
will track financial crimes by reviewing data from banking,
regulatory, law enforcement and open-source data, Vance said
yesterday in a statement. The unit will refer potential cases to
the Major Economic Crimes Bureau, under which it operates, and
coordinate with agencies including the U.S. Internal Revenue
Service, Federal Bureau of Investigation and Secret Service.  It will be overseen by Assistant District Attorney Jordan
Arnold, and Polly Greenberg, chief of the Major Economic Crimes
Bureau.  An economic-crimes unit formed in November 2010 has
reviewed thousands of filings that generated investigative
leads, Vance’s office said. The new unit will cooperate with
federal authorities or other district attorneys’ offices in
cases where jurisdictional issues prevent Vance’s office from
bringing a case, according to the statement.  RBS Hires Ex-FSA Director Jon Pain as Head of Regulatory Affairs  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , the recipient of the
world’s biggest banking bailout, hired Jon Pain as its head of
conduct and regulatory affairs.  Pain was previously partner for financial services at
accounting firm KPMG LLP and earlier led the Financial Services
Authority’s efforts at recapitalizing Britain’s banks in the
wake of the 2008 crisis, the Edinburgh-based lender said in a
statement. Pain will take up the newly created role in August.  RBS is the third U.K. bank, following  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , to appoint a former regulator to a senior
compliance role.  RBS was fined $612 million in February for rigging
benchmark interest rates such as Libor and has set aside more
than 2 billion pounds to compensate customers wrongly sold
payment-protection insurance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  