-- Korea Electric Falls on Nuclear Reactor Shutdowns: Seoul Mover
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h o   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2013-05-29T08:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/korea-electric-falls-on-nuclear-reactor-shutdowns-seoul-mover.html
Korea Electric Power Corp. (015760)  fell to
the lowest in five months in Seoul trading after South Korea’s
government ordered the shutdown of two nuclear reactors found to
be using components whose safety certificates were faked.  Korea Electric, parent of nuclear operator  Korea Hydro &
Nuclear Power Co. , slid 5.1 percent to 27,200 won at the close
on the Korea Exchange, the lowest level since Dec. 13. Analysts
at Daishin Securities Co. and Shinyoung Securities Co. cut their
share-price estimates to 40,000 won and 35,000 won respectively,
citing prospects the shutdowns would hurt operating profit.  The Shin-Kori No. 2 and Shin-Wolsong No. 1 reactors will be
shut for about four months to replace control cables supplied
under fake quality warranties, the Energy Ministry said
yesterday. The government also ordered the replacement of cables
at the Shin-Kori No. 1 reactor, which is already shut for
regular maintenance, and at the new Shin-Wolsong No. 2 plant,
which is in review before commencing operations.  “Considering that it will take at least four months to
restart operations at the three suspended nuclear reactors, the
company’s operating profit for this year is estimated to be cut
by 20 percent, or 700b won ($620 million), negatively impacting
profit figures in the second and third quarter,” Yang Ji Hwan,
an analyst at Daishin, said by phone today.  South Korea ’s nuclear regulator began its investigation in
April following information from a whistle-blower, according to
the ministry. An earlier probe into faked certificates led to
the suspension of two reactors in November. Korea Hydro Chief
Executive Officer Kim Kyun Seop said at the time he would resign
once the certificates “mess” was fixed.  South Korea, which depends on nuclear energy for more than
30 percent of its electricity, may face “unprecedented” power
shortages during the summer because of the halts, Vice Minister
for Energy Han Jin Hyun told reporters yesterday. The decision
will mean 10 of South Korea’s 23 reactors are off-line,
according to Korea Hydro.  Expectations that the power price that Korea Electric pays
to private generators may increase as a result of the shutdowns
boosted other electricity-related companies today, Choi Ji Hwan,
an analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co., said by phone. SK
Holdings gained 4.4 percent while GS Holdings rose 0.9 percent,
compared with a 0.8 percent gain in the benchmark Kospi index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net ;
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  