-- Nasdaq NLX Market Gets Approval, to Start May 31
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-05-29T13:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/nasdaq-nlx-market-gets-approval-to-start-may-31.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s European
derivatives market will open for business May 31, going head to
head with the largest  futures markets  in the region, as it won
approval from the U.K. securities regulator.  The London-based NLX will start its interest-rate
derivatives platform with six products, including futures on the
German bund, Euribor futures and short sterling. It will also
offer medium-term German-government debt known as Bobl, Schatz
short-term German debt, and the Long Gilt based on U.K.
government bonds. London-based LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. will be
the clearinghouse for NLX, reducing the fallout from any default
by guaranteeing counterparty payment.  “We have worked closely with the regulators in our
application process,” Charlotte Crosswell, Chief Executive
Officer of NLX, said in an e-mail today. NLX “brings much
needed competition to European interest-rate derivatives.”  Nasdaq, the operator of America’s second-biggest equity
exchange, announced plans for the U.K. platform in June last
year. NLX is seeking to capitalize as  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , which is
being bought by  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , moves its
clearing from LCH to ICE in London. Customers who trade NYSE’s
Liffe derivative contracts will also have to switch. LCH is the
world’s largest clearinghouse for interest-rate swaps.  NLX opens for business the same week that Frankfurt-based
Eurex relaunches its Euribor contract on June 1, stepping up
competition with Liffe, which dominates the market.  Deutsche Boerse AG and NYSE Euronext own Europe’s largest
derivatives exchanges. NYSE Euronext’s London-based Liffe
dominates the market for short-term interest-rate derivatives.
Frankfurt-based Eurex, Europe’s largest futures exchange,
handles long-term products.  CME Group Inc. (CME)  also plans to open a
new market, starting with currency futures in London this year.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  