-- Nasdaq Agrees to Pay $10 Million to Settle SEC Facebook Case
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-05-29T18:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/nasdaq-agrees-to-pay-10-million-to-settle-sec-facebook-charges.html
Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc. agreed to pay
$10 million to settle Securities and Exchange Commission charges
that its mishandling of Facebook Inc.’s initial public offering
last year was a violation of securities laws.  Regulators cited the second-largest operator of U.S. equity
markets for its “poor systems and decision-making” during the
IPO in May 2012 that was delayed by a computer malfunction.
Nasdaq agreed to the settlement without admitting or denying the
SEC’s findings, according to a statement released today. The
payment is the largest with an American exchange, which enjoy
legal protections because of their self-regulating role.  “Our focus in this investigation was on the design
limitation in Nasdaq’s system and the exchange’s decision making
after that limitation came to light,” Daniel M. Hawke, chief of
the SEC Enforcement Division’s Market Abuse Unit, said in the
statement. “Too often in today’s markets, systems disruptions
are written off as mere technical ‘glitches’ when it’s the
design of the systems and the response of exchange officials
that cause us the most concern.”  Brokers handling  Facebook (FB)  orders in the May 2012 IPO
claimed they lost hundreds of millions of dollars after a design
flaw in Nasdaq’s software delayed the stock’s open and left them
confused about whether or not they owned shares. Today’s
settlement is in addition to Nasdaq’s proposal to pay $62
million to compensate member firms for losses.  Nasdaq shares gained 0.8 percent to $31.71 as of 2:36 p.m.
in New York.  Processes, Contingency  The SEC penalty was imposed because Nasdaq failed in its
obligation to ensure that systems, processes and contingency
planning are robust and adequate to manage an IPO without
disruption to the market, the agency said.  “The settlement is another important step forward,” said
Nasdaq Chief Executive Officer Robert Greifeld in an open letter
e-mailed to Bloomberg News. “We have put in place innovative
safeguards and taken a number of steps to help ensure that
Nasdaq continues to deliver the world’s best trading
technology.”  Greifeld said in the letter that Nasdaq has created
positions for chief information officer and global head of
market systems, changed its IPO, opening and closing crosses,
implemented new processes for changing technology and
established a group focused on testing the quality of its
trading systems. The company handled 77 IPOs and raised $7.99
billion for investors and listed companies since last May, the
letter said.  Violated Rules  The SEC criticized Nasdaq executives for failing to delay
trading of Facebook in the secondary market when they gathered
on the morning of May 18, 2012, for a “code blue” conference
call to discuss the software problems that were coming to light.  While exchange managers had removed lines of computer
programming code with the expectation that it would solve the
issues, it didn’t, and more than 30,000 Facebook shares remained
stuck in Nasdaq’s system for two hours without execution or
cancellation, according to today’s statement.  “Nasdaq’s decision to initiate trading before fully
understanding the problem caused violations of several rules,”
the regulator said. “They did not understand the root cause.”  Nasdaq’s net income fell 51 percent to $42 million during
the first quarter because of charges related to the  Facebook
IPO . The profit figure included the $10 million set aside for
the SEC probe as well as the $62 million regulators have cleared
as company’s plan to compensate brokers for the Facebook debut.  Bonus Cuts  Greifeld saw his 2012 cash bonus fall by 62 percent to
$1.35 million, in part because the compensation committee
reduced it by $542,100 after the Facebook IPO, according to a
regulatory  filing  last month. Anna Ewing, Nasdaq’s executive
vice president in charge of global technology, had her bonus cut
by $263,625 in connection with the offering.  NYSE Euronext, the biggest U.S. exchange operator, agreed
to pay $5 million in September to the SEC to resolve regulatory
claims that the New York Stock Exchange violated rules by giving
certain customers a head start on trading information. The
penalty was the first of its kind against an exchange.  The pricing of the first public Facebook transaction, a
trade known as the IPO cross, took a half hour longer than
Nasdaq planned because of technical malfunctions. Days later,
Greifeld acknowledged “poor design” in software put the
opening auction into a loop that delayed its completion.  $500 Million  Citigroup Inc., Chicago-based Citadel LLC, UBS AG in Zurich
and  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  in Jersey City, New Jersey,
operate equity wholesaling groups, brokers that execute orders
for individual investors sent by securities firms such as
Charles Schwab Corp., TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. and Fidelity
Investments. Combined, the firms claim they lost almost $500
million in the offering.  The delays were the first signs of trouble in the Facebook
IPO that burned investors and prompted lawsuits against the
company, its exchange and the underwriters. The  stock  is still
down more than 37 percent from the price set by underwriters. It
slipped 2.3 percent to $23.54 today.  Facebook was priced at $38 on May 17. The IPO cross took
place at 11:30 a.m. New York time the next morning, a half hour
later than Nasdaq planned. About 30 minutes after that, the
 market owner  reported a delay confirming trades from the opening
auction with the brokers that placed orders.  The transaction reports, normally distributed immediately,
were sent at 1:50 p.m., leaving market makers, brokers and their
customers uncertain about whether orders submitted into Nasdaq’s
opening cross had been executed. Traders and individuals
couldn’t sell to limit losses until they received the reports
and knew how many shares they held.  “It was a mess by their own admission,” Mark Coffelt, who
manages $75 million as president of Empiric Advisors Inc. in
Austin,  Texas , said in a phone interview today. “It burned a
lot of firms.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  