-- NBA’s Bobcats Hire Steve Clifford as Sixth Coach in Nine Years
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-29T19:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/nba-s-bobcats-hire-steve-clifford-as-sixth-coach-in-nine-years.html
The  Charlotte  Bobcats hired Steve Clifford as their third coach in as many years.  Clifford spent the past 13 years as an assistant coach in
the  National Basketball Association , including the 2012-13
season with the  Los Angeles Lakers , and had his only previous
head coaching experience at Division II Adelphi University in
Garden City, New York, from 1995 to 1999. Clifford’s teams have
made the NBA playoffs nine of the last 10 seasons.  “He brings a strong pedigree and a track record of success
to our franchise,” Bobcats President of Basketball Operations
Rod Higgins said in a statement. “He has built a reputation as
an innovator, especially defensively, and has experience in
multiple systems. We look forward to utilizing his knowledge as
we continue to build this team.”  Clifford succeeds Mike Dunlap, who was fired after going
21-61 in his only season as coach of the Bobcats. Clifford is
the sixth coach in the nine-year history of the franchise, which
has had one winning season since joining the NBA as the league’s
most recent expansion team in 2004.  Before spending this season with the Lakers, Clifford was
with the Orlando Magic for five seasons and made five straight
playoff appearances as a member of Stan Van Gundy’s staff. He
also worked under Jeff Van Gundy for four years with the  Houston
Rockets  and started in the NBA as a scout and assistant coach
with the  New York Knicks  from 2000 to 2003.  At Adelphi, Clifford had an 86-36 record and took the
school to four straight appearances in college basketball’s
Division II national tournament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  