-- Negative Rates No Threat to Bank Health, Danish FSA Says
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-05-30T08:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/negative-rates-no-threat-to-bank-health-danish-regulator-says.html
Denmark ’s experience with negative
interest rates shows the policy won’t undermine bank industry
health and even allows lenders to set themselves up for a
rebound, according to the Financial Supervisory Authority.  Since the Danish central bank  cut its deposit rate  below
zero in July, net interest income at the nation’s lenders has
dropped to its lowest in five years. Yet the figures show a
temporary effect that won’t leave lasting scars on the industry,
said Ulrik Noedgaard, director general of the FSA.  “It is a drag on net interest income, that is clear,”
Noedgaard said in an interview in Copenhagen. “On the other
hand, there is essentially a hidden future earnings there
because once  interest rates  start to normalize, the earnings
from that component will go up.”  Denmark resorted to negative interest rates last year in
response to a capital influx that had threatened the krone’s peg
to the euro. Though the bank initially said the step took it
into “uncharted territory,” it later declared the policy a
success as investors backed off Denmark’s AAA rated assets.  The FSA says its assessment shows the currency defense
didn’t unduly damage Denmark’s bank industry, which is now
showing signs of recovering from a burst housing bubble.  “What we see -- and what we have been seeing, but
especially going forward now -- is that earnings will be
significantly higher than impairments for the system as a
whole,” Noedgaard said.  ‘Symbolic Value’  The comments come as other central banks in  Europe  discuss
the merits and risks of negative rates. In  Switzerland , the
central bank has held its main rate at zero since August 2011 in
a bid to prevent franc appreciation beyond a 1.20 cap against
the euro.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , who cut the
euro zone’s benchmark refinancing rate on May 2 to a record-low
0.5 percent, said then he has an “open mind” on reducing the
deposit rate below zero.  The ECB is “prepared so that in case of a need we could
implement” negative rates, Governing Council memberChristian Noyer said this week. “I’m personally not convinced there’s an
interest in doing that.” Denmark cut its deposit rate to minus
0.2 percent in July, and raised it 10 basis points in January.  According to Jesper Berg, senior vice president and head of
regulatory affairs at Nykredit A/S, the threshold at which rates
make a difference to banks isn’t zero.  “It has huge symbolic value but in practice, it’s not a
magic number,” Berg said in an interview. “What Draghi has to
learn from Denmark is that he can go below zero, but not a
lot.”  Matching Writedowns  Businesses taking up loans of 7.5 million kroner or more
paid on average 1.58 percent in interest in April, the lowest
rate since at least 2007, the central bank said today. The rate
on existing loans fell to 3.88 percent, also a low, the bank
said.  Net interest income for Denmark’s banking industry fell in
2012 to its lowest level in five years. Income dropped by 2.3
percent, to 50.4 billion kroner, the FSA said May 16. An
increase in bank fees helped mitigate the decline, lifting
combined net interest and fee income by 0.3 percent. Writedowns
rose 11 percent after falling the previous two years.  “It’s not a question of whether it’s sustainable or not,”
Noedgaard said of the negative rate. “The really important
thing is to have sufficient earnings to match the writedowns and
potentially build up more capital, and we expect the Danish
banking system to be in such a position even if the earnings
from these deposits are potentially quite low.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  