-- Barry Diller Explores Newsweek Sale After Being ‘Seduced’
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e ,   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-05-29T20:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/newsweek-ceo-says-turnaround-lets-iac-explore-magazine-s-sale.html
Barry Diller, chairman of
 IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI) , said he’s exploring a sale of  Newsweek , the
magazine that went online-only this year, after concluding he
erred in merging it with the Daily Beast website.  “I got seduced into Newsweek,” Diller said on stage at
the D: All Things Digital conference today in  Rancho Palos
Verdes ,  California . “It much better belongs in a widely
diversified or somewhat diversified publishing company that has
publishing assets.”  The Newsweek/Daily Beast Co. plans to look for possible
buyers for Newsweek and focus on the Daily Beast brand,
according to an internal memo from Editor-in-Chief Tina Brown
and Chief Executive Officer Baba Shetty. Newsweek is on pace to
break even by the end of this year, they said in the note.  Newsweek became majority-owned by New York-based IAC last
year. Billionaire Chairman  Barry Diller  told Bloomberg TV last
month that he regrets buying the property, which he merged with
the Daily Beast website in 2010. He said publishing a weekly
magazine when news has become instantaneous is a “fool’s
errand.”  Newsweek published its final print issue in December.  “We’ve transitioned the business to one that will break
even in Q4 of this year,” Brown and Shetty said in the memo.  IAC doesn’t officially disclose financial figures for the
Newsweek/Daily Beast unit. A person with direct knowledge of the
matter told  Bloomberg News  in July the business would probably
lose as much as $22 million in 2012. The publisher cut editorial
jobs in December in an effort to hold down expenses.  “Last year, as we worked through the U.S. print shutdown,
it would have been impossible to even explore options to sell
Newsweek,” Brown and Shetty said. “Our obligation was to turn
the business around, and develop a breakthrough digital product.
We’ve done just that.”  Justine Sacco, an IAC spokeswoman, declined to comment on a
possible sale. Variety  reported  yesterday that IAC was seeking
buyers for Newsweek.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  