-- Novak Djokovic Rues Missed Chance at French Open
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-05-29T23:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/novak-djokovic-rues-missed-chance-at-french-open.html
Novak Djokovic rues the one that got
away.  The Serb -- who holds the No. 1 ranking in men’s tennis and
has six Grand Slam titles -- still dwells on what might have
been last year if rain and poor light hadn’t stopped his French
Open final with  Rafael Nadal . He says he’s learned from the
loss, and is out to claim the one major he hasn’t won.  “Sometimes, defeats are even more important to me as a
life lesson than wins,” Djokovic said in an interview earlier
this month in  Rome . “Everything is exposed at that moment -- my
emotions and everything. I’m disappointed, a lot of things go
through your head. And then you know you’re really trying not to
be vulnerable, and you are really trying to become stronger and
lift up and come back with a great faith and great confidence.”  Last year, down two sets to the defending champion,
Djokovic turned the final around by winning eight games in a row
to take his first set from the Spaniard at Roland Garros and had
a service break in the fourth. Then came the rain that pushed
the match into the next day, when Nadal recovered to take the
fourth set and clinch a men’s record seventh  French Open  title.  “Maybe I could have won if we had continued that day,” he
said about his first championship match in Paris.  Djokovic, who had been trying to become the first man since
1969 to won all four major titles in a row, said he told
supervisor Stefan Fransson he was ready to continue.  ‘Felt Great’  “I really wanted to play,” said the 26-year-old right-hander. “Who wouldn’t have wanted to play? I had won eight
games in a row. I was in the fourth set, in the lead, up by a
break, and I wanted to play. I felt great. It was close to 8
p.m. Sunset was at around 9.15 p.m. It was still light, you
could still play. In that hour’s space I could do some more good
things on the court.”  Djokovic said the loss “mentally influenced” him on the
grass courts of Wimbledon, where he lost four weeks later to
eventual champion  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  in the
semifinals. In August, Djokovic missed out on a medal at the
London Olympics, which had been one of his main goals for 2012.  “I try to recharge the batteries for every tournament,”
said Djokovic, who has won four Australian Opens, one Wimbledon
title and one U.S. Open championship. “Sometimes, it’s very
close. Especially between Roland Garros and Wimbledon, the
scheduling is back-to-back more or less. Not just physically,
but also mentally and emotionally it’s very demanding.”  Today’s Schedule  Djokovic plays  Argentina ’s Guido Pella in the French Open
second round today, when Nadal faces Slovakia’s Martin Klizan.
Defending women’s champion  Maria Sharapova  of Russia meets
Canada’s Eugenie Bouchard and former winner Li Na of China plays
Bethanie Mattek-Sands of the U.S.  Djokovic said he “keeps on believing” this is the year
for him to win at  Roland Garros .  There won’t be a repeat of last year’s final after top-seeded Djokovic and No. 3 Nadal were placed in the same half of
the draw. Second-seeded Federer is in the opposite half.  Although he’s won six titles since returning in February
from a seven-month break to heal his knee, Nadal still can’t
practice 100 percent. Record 17-time major champion Federer has
yet to win a title this year.  This week at Roland Garros, Djokovic has refused to answer
questions about his draw and the possibility of playing Nadal in
the final four, or  Grigor Dimitrov  in the third round. The 22-year-old Bulgarian beat him in the second round of  Madrid 
earlier this month. Djokovic handed Nadal a rare defeat on clay
at the Monte Carlo Masters in April, ending his run of eight
straight titles.  French Edge  Back in Rome, Djokovic said he’s been learning French to
give himself an edge over Nadal, whom he’s never beaten in Paris
in  four matches .  “If I want to do well in Roland Garros I will also have to
learn French,” he said. “You need the crowd, always. You
always want to have the crowd on your side, that’s no secret.
It’s a big difference when you have support from the stands.
That’s something that carries you on, gives you confidence and
makes you feel more comfortable on the court.”  While the French Open is still missing from his collection
of major titles, Djokovic said he’s proud of his No. 1 spot on
the ATP World Tour.  “What I enjoy the most is the feeling of fulfillment that
I have in my heart, knowing that this is what I was dreaming of
when I started playing tennis,” said Djokovic, who was raised
in war-torn Belgrade.  “For many people it seemed impossible,” he added. “Even
for me at some stages when I was growing up it seemed a little
bit unrealistic. But I always believed with my family and close
friends that I could do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros at  drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  