-- Obama Said to Pick Bush-Era Official Comey to Lead FBI
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   M a r k   S i l v a
-- 2013-05-30T01:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/obama-said-to-pick-bush-era-official-comey-to-lead-fbi.html
President  Barack Obama  plans to
nominate James B. Comey, a deputy attorney general under
President  George W. Bush , to become the next FBI director,
according to two people briefed on the selection.  Comey, 52, was general counsel at  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and
then hedge fund Bridgewater Associates LP after he left the
government. Most recently he was appointed to the board of
London-based bank  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  as a nonexecutive director.  Obama chose Comey over  Lisa Monaco , his counterterrorism
and homeland security adviser who was chief of staff to current
FBI Director Robert S. Mueller, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the move hasn’t yet been announced.  The bipartisan pick comes as the Justice Department is
embroiled in controversy over its investigations of journalists
who’ve reported leaked government information. The White House
declined to comment.  Choosing Comey may make it easier for Obama to win Senate
confirmation of his FBI nominee amid Republican challenges to
the administration. In addition to questions over  Justice
Department  activities, the White House is dealing with an
inquiry into Internal Revenue Service treatment of Tea Party-related groups and Republican scrutiny of the U.S. response to
last year’s deadly attack on a U.S. mission in Benghazi,  Libya .  ‘Fine Candidate’  If nominated, Comey would be confirmed by lawmakers, “and
that’s the important thing,” U.S. Representative Mike Rogers, a
Michigan Republican who leads the House Intelligence Committee,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  Rogers, a former agent with the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , declined to say if Comey would be Obama’s pick
for the position. Still, he called the former Bush
administration official “a fine candidate.”  The New York Times reported on Comey’s selection earlier.  Mueller, another Bush appointee, plans to leave the FBI in
September after 12 years as director. The position is a 10-year
appointment, though Mueller stayed on an extra two years at
Obama’s request. Congress approved the extension of his term.  Comey, should he win confirmation, would take over an FBI
that has been fundamentally reshaped under Mueller’s watch since
the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. He would become the top
official in the agency that is leading the investigation into
last month’s  Boston Marathon bombings .  Tsarnaev Suspects  Law-enforcement officials say the April 15 Boston attack,
which killed three people and wounded more than 260, was the
work of radicalized brothers, ethnic Chechens who immigrated
from  Russia . Members of Congress are scrutinizing the FBI’s
handling of a 2011 tip from Russia about one of the brothers,
Tamerlan Tsarnaev, that might have averted the bombings.  The agency, at the request of Russia’s domestic
intelligence service, conducted a three-month review of
Tsarnaev’s activities in 2011, which included interviews with
the subject and family members, and a look into his
communications and Internet usage. The probe turned up no
derogatory information on Tsarnaev, according to the bureau.  Mueller, the longest-serving FBI director since J. Edgar Hoover, said in Senate testimony this month that the U.S. is
confronting “a time of diverse and persistent threats from
terrorists, spies and cyber criminals.”  “Foreign terrorists still seek to strike us at home and
abroad,” Mueller told members of a Senate Appropriations
subcommittee on May 16. “Terrorists today operate in more
places and against a wider array of targets than they did a
decade ago.”  Surveillance Program  Comey, a University of Chicago-trained lawyer, served as
acting attorney general in 2004 at a critical juncture in the
 Bush administration .  Attorney General John Ashcroft was hospitalized, and Bush’s
White House advisers were attempting to persuade Ashcroft to
reauthorize a warrantless surveillance program. Comey, with
Mueller, went to his hospital room to intercept the White House
aides seeking Ashcroft’s approval. Ashcroft said he had concerns
about the legality of the plan and deferred the decision to
Comey, who refused the request.  In  testifying  before the Senate Judiciary Committee in
2007, Comey called the experience “the most difficult time in
my professional life.”  After Comey, Mueller and other top Justice Department
officials threatened to resign if the program was authorized
without their sign-off, it was revised.  Career Start  Following his service in U.S. attorneys’ offices in  New
York  City and in  Virginia , Comey was deputy attorney general
from December 2003 to October 2005.  Comey currently is a senior research scholar and Hertog
Fellow on National Security at Columbia University Law School in
New York, according to a statement from HSBC in January. The
bank named him to a committee to combat financial crimes after
paying $1.92 billion to settle money-laundering probes.  He recently stepped down from his post at Westport,
Connecticut-based Bridgewater Associates after three years and
worked from 2005 to 2010 as a senior vice president for
Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin. While at the Justice
Department, he led the President’s Corporate Fraud Task Force.  Comey served from 2002 to 2003 as U.S. Attorney for the
Southern District of New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  