-- Obama Back in Chicago to Raise Money for House Democrats
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-05-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/obama-back-in-chicago-to-raise-money-for-house-democrats.html
President  Barack Obama  told
supporters his agenda remains unfinished as he returned to his
hometown of Chicago for the first time in more than three months
to help raise money for U.S. House Democrats.  At two events yesterday, Obama urged attendees to work for
the election of Democratic congressional candidates to help
break the stalemate with Congress.  “I’m willing to work with anybody, Republican, Democrat or
independent to get stuff done, and I’m not going to put the
pause button on for the next year-and-a-half or two years,”
Obama said last night at a dinner where ticket prices ranged
from $10,000 per person to $32,400 per couple.  The president was joined by House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi of  California  and U.S. Representative Steve Israel of New
York, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee, the fundraising arm of House Democrats.  Republicans have a 234-201 majority in the House. Democrats
need a net gain of 17 seats to regain control of the chamber
after losing it in 2010. While taking back the House would
probably end investigations into his administration’s actions
and give Obama a better chance of getting his agenda through
Congress, the party would still have to buck historical trends
and overcome an unfavorable electoral map.  “It’s not a hill they have to climb, it’s increasingly
looking like a mountain,” said Stu Rothenberg, editor of the
nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report in  Washington . “I don’t
know anybody who thinks House Democrats have much of a chance”
of gaining 17 seats.  Raising Money  Obama has promised to be the star attraction at more than a
dozen fundraising events for the Democratic National Committee,
the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee and the DCCC, the
group benefiting last night. So far, the president has been the
headliner at 10 appearances in the past two months in
Washington, New York, Atlanta,  Dallas  and San Francisco.  He sounded similar themes at each, telling supporters not
to give up trying to get progress on their goals.  “Do not get complacent” he said at last night’s first
event at a hotel in downtown  Chicago . The political system in
Washington “is broken but it’s not permanently broken.”  A spokesman for the Democratic National Committee, Michael
Czin, said he didn’t know how much money Obama has helped
Democrats raise so far, though it’s in the millions. In one
event with 60 people in Dallas last month, Obama helped raise
between $600,000 and $1.9 million.  Chicago Events  In Chicago, the first fundraiser was at a Hilton Hotel with
about 150 supporters paying $1,000 per person to $5,000 per
couple.  The second was a dinner at the home of Bettylu and Paul
Saltzman, longtime Obama supporters. Bettylu Saltzman is a
longtime party activist and Obama supporter who first met him at
a voter registration drive in 1992. The DCCC said 70 people were
taking part with tickets going for $10,000 per person and
$32,400 per couple. A dinner table cost $50,000, according to
the invitation.  In the 2012 election cycle, the campaign committee spent
$184 million to support House Democratic candidates, according
to Federal Election Commission figures. As of April 30, the
committee had $10.4 million in the bank, compared with $8.7
million for its Republican counterpart.  All 435 House seats are up for election in 2014. Because of
the way districts are drawn by the states, most are considered
safe for either the Democratic or Republican candidate.
Rothenberg said there are only 50 House seats in play in 2014,
with 25 seats held by Democrats and 25 held by Republicans.  “The playing field is quite small,” he said.  ‘Motivated Republicans’  IRS selective screening of anti-tax groups, Justice
Department collection of telephone records of some Associated
Press reporters and editors and further questions on the Obama
administration’s handling of the September attack on a U.S.
mission in Benghazi, Libya, have made the odds tougher for a
Democratic takeover of the House, Rothenberg said.  “It’s motivated Republicans” and “that adds to the
president’s problems,” Rothenberg said. “It started off as a
very tough task, and now it’s gotten tougher.”  Obama is scheduled to return to Washington this afternoon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Chicago at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  