-- OECD Forecasts Global Economy to Recover Next Year: Economy
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-05-29T10:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/oecd-sees-global-economy-recovering-next-year-as-europe-lags.html
The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development forecasts global economic growth
will accelerate in 2014 with both the U.S. and  Japan  continuing
to outpace the euro area.  “The global economy is moving forward and it is doing so
at multiple speeds,” OECD Chief Economist Pier Carlo Padoan
said today in the Paris-based organization’s semi-annual
Economic Outlook. Differing monetary and fiscal choices across
the major developed economies are driving regional divergence
with “each path carrying its own mix of risks,” he said.  Global central banks are continuing to try to bolster their
economies, with the  Federal Reserve  buying $85 billion of debt a
month and the  Bank of Japan  unveiling unprecedented stimulus
last month. In the euro region, where the  European Central Bank 
cut its  benchmark rate  to a record low this month, the OECD said
“more can be done through further non-conventional measures.”  The OECD sees U.S. gross domestic product rising 1.9
percent this year and 2.8 percent in 2014, while Japan’s will
increase 1.6 percent and 1.4 percent. The euro-area economy will
 shrink  0.6 percent this year before expanding 1.1 percent next,
according to the report.  In a separate release today, German unemployment rose more
than economists forecast in May as the euro-region debt crisis
and a long winter took their toll on  Europe ’s largest economy.
The number of people out of work climbed 21,000 to 2.96 million.
Economists predicted an increase of 5,000, according to the
median of 35 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Some Optimism  The OECD, which advises its 34 member governments on
economic policy, sounded a more optimistic note than in recent
reports, praising the U.S. for having “repaired” its financial
system, welcoming Japan’s shift to a more stimulative monetary
policy and noting that public debt levels in many euro-area
countries will soon start to decline given the fiscal effort
made over “several years.”  Combined growth across OECD countries will accelerate to
2.3 percent next year from 1.2 percent this year.  China , which
isn’t a member of the OECD, will expand 8.4 percent in 2014
after growth of 7.8 percent this year, according to the report.  Still, Padoan warned of risks related to the 17-nation
currency zone, saying that  rising unemployment  is the “most
pressing challenge” and that countries in the region with trade
surpluses such as  Germany  need to allow wages to rise.  The euro-region jobless rate probably rose to 12.2 percent
in April from 12.1 percent in March, economists said before a
report on May 31.  ‘Reform Fatigue’  “Protracted weakness could evolve into stagnation with
negative implications for the global economy,” he said.
“Reform fatigue is mounting as visible results in growth and
jobs fail to materialize.”  For the U.S., the challenge will be how to unwind stimulus.
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and some colleagues disagree about
when to curtail bond buying, with Bernanke stressing this month
that a premature exit risks hampering growth.  The OECD said an early withdrawal by the Fed “could
jeopardize the fragile recovery, but waiting too long could
result in a disorderly exit from the program.”  Speaking more broadly, Padoan said protracted monetary
easing “may lead to excessive risk taking, bubbles and resource
misallocation.”  “Exit from unconventional monetary policy, when needed,
may be difficult to manage and less smooth than desirable,
possibly leading to sharp rises in bond yields and serious
negative consequences for growth,” he said.  In  Asia  today, the Bank of  Thailand  cut its benchmark
 interest rate  for the first time this year as slowing economic
growth bolstered government calls for easing. The one-day bond
repurchase rate fell by a quarter of a percentage point to 2.5
percent. In reports elsewhere, Japan’s retail sales fell 0.1
percent in April from a year earlier, while  South Korea  had a
current account surplus of $3.97 billion last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  