-- Oil to Mining Targeted by EU Demand to Reveal Payments to States
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-05-29T16:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/oil-to-mining-targeted-by-eu-demand-to-reveal-payments-to-states.html
Oil, natural-gas and mining companies
will be forced by the European Union to disclose taxes on
profit, license fees and other payments they make to governments
as part of EU efforts to boost corporate transparency.  Diplomats meeting today in Brussels signed off on the
plans, which will also cover forestry. The disclosure rules
apply to listed companies, after similar requirements for non-listed firms were agreed on earlier this year.  “These new rules will encourage European companies to be
more open about what they are paying to governments around the
world,” Ireland’s Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said in a
statement. Ireland holds the rotating presidency of the EU.  The transparency rules are in the vanguard of a broader EU
push to force companies to disclose more information about
their internal financial arrangements. Banks with headquarters
in the bloc will be required from 2015 to reveal the profits
they make, subsidies they receive and taxes they pay on a
country-by-country basis.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s finance
services chief, said last week that he would seek to extend the
measure to all large companies, in order to satisfy calls from
EU leaders for action against  tax evasion .  The rules agreed on today for  oil companies  and other firms
in the extractive industries will take effect later this year,
the Irish presidency said.  The law also adjusts rules for listed companies more
generally, including by imposing tougher requirements for
companies to disclose holdings of securities, in a bid to
prevent a company from covertly building control over another
business.  Barnier’s push comes amid international controversy on
whether companies like Apple Inc. and Google Inc. are taking
excessive advantage of cross-border tax loopholes. EU leaders
vowed last week to investigate “aggressive” tax planning, and
pledged support for tougher corporate transparency rules.  Today’s deal is a “significant advance in our effort to
make European companies more responsible and transparent,”
Barnier said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  