-- Thomson Reuters Names Economist CEO Rashbass to Top News Job
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-05-29T17:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/thomson-reuters-names-economist-ceo-rashbass-to-top-news-post.html
Thomson Reuters  Corp., a provider of
business news and information services, named the Economist
Group Chief Executive Officer Andrew Rashbass as the head of its
news business in a newly created position at the company.  Rashbass, 47, worked at the Economist for 15 years and has
been CEO at the London-based company since 2008, Thomson Reuters
said in a statement today. Stephen J. Adler, who was recently
named Reuters president, on top of his role as editor-in-chief,
will report to Rashbass.  Thomson Reuters, based in New York, is looking to its
smaller divisions to help spur growth amid sluggish demand for
its financial-data products such as Eikon. The company reported
a first-quarter net loss of $31 million, including severance
charges, as sales declined.  Thomson Corp.’s $15.9 billion acquisition of Reuters Group
Plc in 2008 has been slow to pay off for investors. Since it
began trading as a combined company on April 17, 2008, the share
price has fallen 1.7 percent through yesterday.  The addition of Rashbass should help the company wring more
value from its news division, said Doug Arthur, a media analyst
with Evercore Partners Inc. in  New York .  ‘Strategic Direction’  “There are a lot of things they want to do with that
division in terms of integrating it throughout the company and
on different platforms,” he said. “They could grow the
division faster with a little more strategic direction.”  The segment that includes Reuters News continues to lose
money, reporting a  $59 million loss  in operating income for the
quarter ending in March, compared with a $92 million loss a year
earlier.  Thomson Reuters CEO Jim Smith has been focused on cost
cutting to improve profitability. The company plans to cut 2,500
jobs, or about 4 percent of its workforce, Smith said in
February.  Rashbass will join Thomson Reuters this summer and will be
based in  London .  “I am excited to be joining Reuters with its unmatched
commitment to reporting with speed, accuracy, integrity and
independence,” Rashbass said in the statement. “Because they
are essential to Reuters journalism, these characteristics can
also drive huge commercial success.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News ,
competes with Thomson Reuters in providing financial news and
information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ; 