-- London Police Lay Murder Charge in Rigby’s Killing
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-05-30T10:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/london-police-charge-man-with-murder-of-soldier-lee-rigby.html
Michael Adebowale, one of two
suspects in the deadly attack on U.K. soldier Lee Rigby,
appeared at a  London  court today for the first time after being
charged last night.  Adebowale, 22, didn’t enter a plea to charges of murder and
possession of a revolver at Westminster Magistrates’ Court. He
nodded to confirm his address. Adebowale was remanded into
custody and his case was transferred to a higher court for
trial.  Adebowale and a 28-year-old man were shot, wounded and
arrested by police on May 22 at the scene of the crime.
Adebowale was released from medical care and taken into police
custody on May 28. The 28-year-old remains under arrest in a
hospital, according to a police statement yesterday.  “Following the release of Michael Adebowale from hospital,
we have authorised the police to charge him with the murder of
Drummer Rigby” Sue Hemming, head of the  Crown Prosecution
Service ’s Special Crime and Counter Terrorism Division, said in
a  statement . “There is sufficient evidence to prosecute Michael
Adebowale and it is in the public interest to do so.”  Rigby was hit with a car and attacked by two men with
knives just after 2 p.m. outside a military barracks in
Woolwich, southeast London. Prosecutors said Adebowale was
arrested with a gun, a 9.4mm Dutch caliber KNIL Model 91
revolver, which he intended to use to cause violence.  Police are treating the case as an act of terrorism. A bail
hearing was scheduled for June 3 at the Old Bailey criminal
court in London.  A post-mortem examination found that the soldier’s cause
of death was multiple cut and stab wounds, police said
yesterday. An inquest will start tomorrow.  Cyprus, Afghanistan  Rigby, father of a 2-year-old son, was a drummer in the 2nd
Battalion of the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers. A fan of the
Manchester United soccer team, he served as a machine gunner in
Cyprus and then in 2009 as a member of a fire support group in
Helmand province,  Afghanistan .  London police have arrested 10 people in the probe into
Rigby’s death, including Adebowale and the 28-year-old man, who
has been identified by U.K. media as Michael Adebolajo.  The eight others have been released, six on bail pending
further inquiries and two were let go without charges.  About 500 police officers and other investigators,
including members of counterterrorism units from forces around
the country, are working on the case, U.K. Home Secretary
Theresa May has said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  