-- One Way Obamacare May Already Be Working
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2013-05-29T22:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/one-way-obamacare-may-already-be-working.html
There was a time when all anyone in
 Washington  wanted to talk about was “bending the health-care
cost curve.” Forget covering the uninsured -- the ultimate test
of the Affordable Care Act would be the trajectory of health-care costs.  But Washington has a short memory. That whole “curve” thing
was years ago. Meanwhile, we’ve turned our attention to other
things, like “Fast & Furious 6.” Yet quietly, the cost curve has
begun to bend.  “National health spending grew by 3.9 percent each year
from 2009 to 2011, the lowest rate of growth since the federal
government began keeping such statistics in 1960,”  reports  the
Kaiser Family Foundation. Early data suggest that the numbers
held into 2012. So the curve hasn’t just bent; it has bent more
than ever.  In a new paper, Harvard University scholars David Cutler
and Nikhil Sahni calculate that if those numbers hold over the
next decade, the government will save up to $770 billion,
employers will save up to $430 annually on each covered worker
and households will spend up to $290 less on annual health
costs. “Slow health care spending growth might thus bring much-needed relief throughout the economy,” they  write .  Ah, that pesky “might.” Here’s the catch: The curve is
bending, but we don’t really know why, and we don’t know if
it’ll stay bent.  Recession Argument  The pessimistic case goes something like this: You may not
have noticed, Mr. Health Wonk Guy, but the economy has been in
the pits since 2008. When the economy craters, people spend less
on stuff. One thing they spend less on is health care. We
haven’t bent the health-spending curve down so much as we’ve
bent the unemployment curve up. As the economy recovers, so too
will health spending -- and it might even accelerate as people
seek care they’ve put off over the past few years.  The pessimistic case was conventional wisdom in 2011 when
people first began noticing the downward trend in health
spending. That argument began to weaken as more data streamed in
through 2012. Today, few health experts really buy it. There’s
no doubt that the recession hit the health-care sector. The
 Kaiser Family Foundation  and the Center for Sustainable Health
Spending at the Altarum Institute credit the bad economy for
three-quarters of the slowdown in health spending. Cutler and
Sahni say it explains only 37 percent. Today, most everyone
agrees that there’s more to the slowdown then just a bad
economy.  For one thing, health costs began slowing in 2005 or so.
Attributing everything after that to the recession doesn’t quite
fit the data. Is there really a good reason, for instance, that
the recession would lead to a sharp drop in Medicare spending?
After all, seniors aren’t getting Medicare through their jobs,
and there’s relatively little cost-sharing in the program.
Medicare’s famously conservative actuaries are convinced that
something deeper is changing. They now project that Medicare
spending per person will grow substantially more slowly than the
economy in the coming decade.  The health system, the optimists say, is adapting. The
portion of workers with high-deductible plans has increased by
24 percent since 2006. We’ve begun implementing the Affordable
Care Act’s Medicare cuts, with no evident ill effects. Once-expensive drugs have lost their patents and moved into the
lower-priced generic market. Medicare’s hospital readmission
rates fell by more than 5 percent from 2007 to 2010, and the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found that central-line (catheter) infections declined by more than 40 percent from
2008 to 2011. The recession doesn’t explain any of this.  Convincing Case  Does the Affordable Care Act deserve any of the credit?
There are two answers: The first is “maybe a bit.” The second,
“who cares?”  The case for the Affordable Care Act’s influence is
convincing but limited. The strongest evidence is those declines
in readmissions and central-line infections. Obamacare cuts
payments to hospitals with high rates of either. Voila! All of a
sudden hospitals have fewer instances of both. “That the
readmissions rate and infections are falling is probably more
than coincidentally tied to the fact that Medicare is now
penalizing hospitals for them,” Cutler said.  The law might be playing a significant role merely by
signaling that big changes are under way in how the government
pays for health care. Getting paid more for doing more is out.
Getting paid more for improving the health of your patients is
in. Hospitals and other providers are adapting to the new regime
with changes that are producing systemwide savings.  “Providers are getting the message that they need to figure
out how to work smarter and provide better care for people at
lower cost because they all know the trend can’t continue,” said
Richard Baron, who stepped down in April as group director for
seamless care at the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid’s
Innovation Center. “Even now they’re reorganizing care to
prepare for this future where the federal government is moving
into a variety of programs designed to reward value not volume.
That can sound like a cliche, but when I talk to people
delivering health care, they all understand the rewards are
moving in that direction, and they’re all looking for ways to
build organizations that fit that.”  A similar case can be made on the insurance side. The tax
on expensive, employer-provided health plans doesn’t kick in
until 2018. But it’s already having an effect. The  New York 
Times reported, “Companies hoping to avoid the tax are beginning
to scale back the more generous health benefits they have
traditionally offered and to look harder for ways to bring down
the overall cost of care.” That, too, is cutting costs.  Bright Outlook  So you can argue that the Affordable Care Act is
contributing to lower costs now. But there’s a stronger case
that it will do so in coming years. If hospitals let readmission
rates rise, they’re going to take a financial hit. If employers
begin offering pricier insurance coverage, they’ll pay a hefty
excise tax. If Medicare spending rises too much, the Independent
Payment Advisory Board will have fast-track authority to reduce
it. And some of the law’s more exciting cost-control experiments
-- including accountable care organizations, bundled payments,
medical homes and value-based purchasing -- are only just
beginning to come online.  That’s why it doesn’t really matter if Obamacare is
responsible for the recent bend of the cost curve. What matters
is that it will make it easier to keep the curve bending down in
the future.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 