-- Hong Kong Is Not Worried If Home Prices Will Drop 20%, TVB Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   B i l l y   C h a n
-- 2013-05-29T09:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/hong-kong-is-not-worried-if-home-prices-will-drop-20-tvb-says.html
A 20 percent decline in  Hong Kong 
property prices won’t “worry” the government, TVB news
reported yesterday, citing an unidentified government official.  Even if property prices fall 40 percent in the long run,
the government is confident that there won’t be a large amount
of negative-equity cases like in 1998 and 2003, the report said.  A shortage of housing, low mortgage costs and a buying
spree by mainland Chinese have led home prices to more than
double since the beginning of 2009, shrugging off repeated
attempts by the government to curb gains amid an outcry over
affordability. Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying, who took over in
July as head of the government, on Feb. 22 imposed his toughest
yet property curbs by doubling the stamp duty on all property
transactions higher than HK$2 million ($257,609).  Hong Kong  home prices  have fallen 2.3 percent since the
February measures, according to an index compiled by Centaline
Property Agency Ltd. Mortgage lending has declined to a
“trough,” He Guangbei, chief executive officer of BOC Hong
Kong (Holdings) Ltd., the city’s largest home loan lender, told
reporters yesterday.  “We do not comment on reports attributed to sources,” Leo
Law, a spokesman for transport and housing bureau, said by
telephone today.  Extended Decline  The official’s comments underscore that the government was
unlikely to withdraw its cooling measures, Macquarie Capital
Securities Ltd. analysts  David Ng , Raymond Liu and Jeffrey Gao,
wrote in a research report today.  “This stance is needed to reinforce a growing consensus
that, not only will prices drop further in the near term, but
also unlikely to rebound aggressively in the medium term,” the
analysts wrote.  During the city’s last property crash, real estate values
tumbled 70 percent between 1998 and 2003 when confidence was
damped by the Asian financial crisis, the 2000 dot-com bubble,
Sept. 11 and the SARS epidemic.  The number of mortgages in negative equity -- where
apartments are worth less than the balance of the owners’ loans
-- peaked at the end of June 2003 when the slump ended.  Home
prices  have more than tripled since then, according to the
Centaline index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  