-- Monsanto Profit Forecast Increase Fails to Boost Shares
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-05-29T20:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/monsanto-raises-profit-forecast-on-record-corn-volumes.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) ’s third increase to
fiscal 2013 earnings forecasts this year failed to move shares
higher as the outlook from the world’s largest seed company fell
short of analysts’ estimates.  Adjusted earnings per share will be $4.50 to $4.55 in the
12 months through September, the St. Louis-based company said in
a statement today, with record sales of genetically modified
corn and higher prices for its Roundup weedkiller. That compares
with an April 3 forecast of $4.40 to $4.50 a share and the $4.62
average of 23 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “The increase still leaves it below the consensus
estimate,”  Chris Shaw , a New York-based analyst at research
company Monness, Crespi, Hardt & Co. who recommends buying the
shares, said in a note today. “Although we believe most of
Monsanto’s businesses are performing well, we believe the
majority of the upside in the second half of 2013 is coming from
higher glyphosate earnings.”  Monsanto’s corn seed sales will climb by a percentage in
the “mid teens” as volumes hit a record, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Hugh Grant  said at a Sanford C. Bernstein
conference in  New York  today. Earnings also will benefit from
higher prices for glyphosate-based herbicides such as Roundup,
Grant said.  Monsanto fell 0.1 percent to $105.42 at the close in New
York. The shares have gained 11 percent this year.  Corn Crops  Seed sales are benefiting from what the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  has forecast will be the largest corn crop since
1936. Monsanto each year replaces its oldest corn seed with
better performing, newer varieties that cost farmers about 20
percent more, resulting in average price increases of about 8
percent a year for the past decade, Grant said.  Annual free  cash flow  is still expected to be as much as $2
billion this year.  Profit in the quarter that ends this month will be $1.55 to
$1.60 a share, as a tax benefit and higher revenue from corn
seed and Roundup help make up for fewer planted cotton acres and
the exclusion of Brazilian soybean royalties due to a patent
dispute, Monsanto said. Third-quarter earnings were expected to
be $1.69 a share, according to the average of 20 estimates.  The fourth-quarter loss will be smaller than a year earlier
as corn seed sales in Latin America increase, Monsanto said.  Earnings in fiscal 2014, which begins Oct. 1, will increase
by a percentage in the “mid-teens,” Monsanto said. The company
previously raised its 2013 earnings forecast in January and
April.  The decision by the USDA to prepare an environmental impact
statement on Monsanto’s application to deregulate soybeans and
cotton engineered to tolerate dicamba herbicide will delay
commercial sales by about one-and-a-half years, Grant said.
Sales in the first year are usually small so the delay will have
no financial impact, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  