-- Montoro Drops Plan for Spain Deficit Concessions After Backlash
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-05-29T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/montoro-drops-plan-for-spain-deficit-concessions-after-backlash.html
Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro
abandoned a plan to grant struggling regions easier deficit
targets for this year following a backlash from the presidents
of  Madrid  and Extremadura.  The budget deficit for the country as a whole will be
shared “equally” between the regions, Montoro told reporters
in Madrid yesterday, forcing those who’ve struggled most to
make the harshest cuts. “Those who have taken the path to
budget stability more rapidly will have to reduce less slowly,”
he said. “We are going to share out the deficit. We are going
to do it equally.”  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  this month faced the biggest
challenge to party discipline of his 17 months in office after
former premier Jose Maria Aznar called on him to reverse his  tax
policy  and Ignacio Gonzalez, regional leader of Madrid, rebelled
over the plan to allow areas like Catalonia and Valencia easier
spending limits.  In March, Montoro set up working groups to study varying
deficit goals for the regions, aiming to give regions with
deeper budget deficits last year laxer targets for 2013.
Madrid’s Gonzalez and Jose Antonio Monago, president of
Extremadura in the west of Spain, rejected the plan, saying it
rewarded failure on the back of their regions, which had met
targets.  Rajoy’s ‘Failure’  Rajoy’s attempt to broker a settlement “has been a failure
and the project of having different deficit targets was creating
more problems than anything else,” Jose Antonio Herce, a
partner at Madrid-based consultancy firm Analistas Financieros
Internacionales, said in a telephone interview.  The European Commission yesterday endorsed Rajoy’s plan to
delay  Spain ’s budget consolidation process by two years. The
premier plans to meet the bloc’s deficit limit of 3 percent of
gross domestic product in 2016 instead of 2014.  “The government is going to have to use the margin of
maneuver it obtained from the European Commission to try and
make it easier for all the regions,” Herce said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  