-- Morgan Stanley Said to Seek Up to $3 Billion for Property Fund
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-05-29T03:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/morgan-stanley-said-to-seek-up-to-3-billion-for-property-fund.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , the biggest property
investor among Wall Street banks before the financial crisis, is
trying to raise $1 billion to $3 billion for a new global real
estate fund amid appetite for higher-yielding investments, said
two people with knowledge of the effort.  The firm is seeking a large contribution from China
Investment Corp., which owns 6.4 percent of New York-based
Morgan Stanley, said one of the people, who spoke on condition
of anonymity because the fundraising is private. Calls to CIC’s
news department in Beijing weren’t immediately answered.  Matt Burkhard, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, declined to
comment on fundraising.  The fund would be for the firm’s eighth for global real
estate. Morgan Stanley is betting the profitability of its
current real estate fund, a $4.7 billion pool raised in 2010,
will help it win pledges from investors, one of the people said.
The firm’s property-investing unit has been run since September
2010 by co-chief executive officers John Klopp and Olivier de
Poulpiquet, following the departures of the division’s previous
senior management after the credit crisis.  The $4.7 billion fund was a successor to the then-record $8
billion Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund VI International that
the firm raised and invested as the commercial real estate
market peaked in 2007. The sixth fund lost billions of dollars
of investor money when the credit crisis shut off financing and
caused property values to plummet.  The $4.7 billion raised for the firm’s seventh global real
estate fund was less than half Morgan Stanley’s target before
the financial crisis, as some of the firm’s largest
institutional clients, including the Washington State Investment
Board and the  New York  State Common Retirement Fund, decided not
to invest.  The fundraising plans were reported May 28 by the Wall
Street Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  