-- Morgans Hotel Board Votes to Eliminate Poison-Pill Plan
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-05-29T23:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/morgans-hotel-board-votes-to-eliminate-poison-pill-plan.html
Morgans Hotel Group Co. (MHGC) , the hotelier
embroiled in a legal dispute with its largest investor, said its
board voted to end a poison-pill plan and instated a new policy
requiring shareholder approval of any future rights plan.  The change will require investors to endorse any new
stockholder-rights plan within a year of its implementation, the
New York-based company said today in a statement. The vote will
end the current rights plan by Oct. 3, two years before it was
scheduled to expire, Morgans said.  “The decision to terminate the plan early and establish a
new policy reflects our ongoing commitment to good corporate
governance practices and responsiveness to our stockholders,”
Chief Executive Officer  Michael Gross  said in the statement.  Poison pills are used to discourage takeover bids by making
companies less attractive to potential buyers. Earlier this
month, Morgans said it received a $7.50-a-share takeover offer
from a “large international hotel company” late last year that
it rejected as too low. Morgans’s stock rose to a year-and-a-half high the day the offer was disclosed.  Jason Taubman Kalisman, a company director and founding
member of its largest common-stock holder, OTK Associates LLC,
sued his fellow board members last month over their decision to
back a deal with billionaire  Ron Burkle ’s Yucaipa Cos. OTK
opened a proxy fight this year, saying it’s seeking to overhaul
Morgans’s board and return the company to profitability. The
chain, which includes 13 boutique hotels, has lost money in
every quarter since 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  A Delaware Chancery Court judge ruled on May 14 that
Morgans, a  boutique hotel  chain that includes such properties as
the Mondrian SoHo in  New York  and the Clift Hotel in  San
Francisco , can’t sell two of its businesses to Yucaipa and begin
a $100 million recapitalization plan because directors didn’t
properly approve the actions. Yucaipa has a stake in Morgans
through preferred shares and stock warrants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  