-- NHL Rangers Fire Coach Tortorella After Playoff Elimination
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-05-29T18:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/tortorella-fired-as-new-york-rangers-coach-after-playoff-loss.html
John Tortorella  was fired today as
coach of the  New York Rangers , four days after the team was
eliminated in the second round of the National Hockey League
playoffs.  Tortorella, 54, was 171-115-29 in four-plus seasons with
the Rangers, helping the team to the playoffs in each of the
last three years.  “Every coach has a shelf life, and I’ve told every guy
that I’ve hired that at some point in time, this is going to
change,” Rangers President Glen Sather said today on a
conference call. “There were a few things that went into this,
and it was more of a decision on how we’re going to get better
and challenge for the  Stanley Cup .”  Sather said that the search for a new coach would begin
during team organizational meetings in June. He said he’d like
to have a new coach by the NHL draft on June 30.  The Rangers were 26-18-4 this year, and beat the  Washington
Capitals  in the first round of the playoffs before falling to
the Boston Bruins 4-1 in a best-of-seven series.  On May 23, with the team trailing the Bruins 3-0,
Tortorella benched center  Brad Richards , the second-highest-paid
skater on the team. Richards recorded one point in  New York ’s
first 10 playoff contests and didn’t play in the final two
games.  Nash Struggles  Tortorella also struggled to get consistent production from
five-time All-Star forward Rick Nash, the team’s highest-paid
skater, who scored one goal in the playoffs, and three-time All-Star Marian Gaborik, who was traded in April to the  Columbus
Blue Jackets .  Tortorella drew criticism throughout his tenure for short,
often-heated news conferences. Sather said today that his
decision to fire Tortorella was not a result of any one specific
aspect of his leadership and declined to name specific reasons
for the dismissal.  “If you’re not in the Stanley Cup and you’re not there
winning it, your season has not been a success,” Sather said.
“Our goal, the ultimate goal, is to win the Stanley Cup.”  Tortorella led the Rangers to the playoffs four times,
including 2009 when he took over midseason for Tom Renney. In
2011-12, New York won 51 regular-season games, second-most in
franchise history, and advanced to the conference finals for the
first time in 14 seasons.  Prior to joining the Rangers, Tortorella was coach of the
 Tampa Bay Lightning  for seven seasons, leading the team to the
Stanley Cup championship in 2004. He won the Jack Adams Award
that season as the NHL’s top coach.  Tortorella’s 410 career wins are the most in NHL history
for an American-born coach, according to the Rangers. He was an
assistant with the Rangers in 1999-2000 and served as the team’s
head coach for the final four games that season, with three
losses and a tie.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  