-- Emerging-Market Stocks Decline to One-Month Low on Fed
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-29T21:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/most-emerging-stocks-rise-as-exporters-rally-zoomlion-slumps.html
Emerging stocks fell to a one-month
low, while Turkish bond yields surged the most since 2008 and
Brazil’s real tumbled, as speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
pare stimulus intensified concern about global growth.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  dropped 3.9 percent in Istanbul,
while OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender, slumped to the
lowest in a month. Brazil’s real weakened to the lowest level
this year, while the  Ibovespa (IBOV)  had the biggest drop in dollar
terms among major equity indexes led by homebuilders. Yields on
Turkey’s two-year benchmark notes climbed to 5.52 percent at the
close in Istanbul, the highest level in more than a month.
Mexican bonds fell a ninth day.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index lost 1 percent to 1,020.42,
the lowest since April 24. The U.S. sold five-year notes after a
two-year auction drew the fewest bids since 2011. Yesterday was
the first offering since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last
week the central bank could reduce the pace of purchases. The
 International Monetary Fund  cut China’s growth forecast today.  The Fed scaling back “certainly is a story that’s bubbling
up from time to time,”  Peter Jankovskis , who helps oversee $3
billion as co-chief investment officer of Lisle, Illinois-based
Oakbrook Investments LLC, said by phone. “The IMF downgraded
their forecast for China, and that had a ripple effect across
emerging markets.”  Stocks in developing nations have fallen 1.8 percent in
May, set for the third drop in four months. Commodity and
utility shares have led the losses among the  10 industries  in
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, slumping at least 3.2 percent.
The broad gauge extended this year’s decline to 3.3 percent,
compared with an 11 percent jump in the MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund retreated 1.3 percent to $41.96. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
surged 8 percent to 21.78, the highest since April 18.  Brazil’s Ibovespa had the biggest decline since April 15,
slumping 2.5 percent.  OGX Petroleo (OGXP3)  & Gas Participacoes SA, the
oil producer controlled by the the billionaire  Eike Batista ,
dropped the most on the stock benchmark as crude oil slid.  The real weakened 1.7 percent to 2.1106 as Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  said a declining currency isn’t a concern and the
government won’t use the exchange rate to curb inflation.  Russia, Turkey  Russian shares sank to a month-low as OAO Russian Grids
fell before its removal from a benchmark gauge. Sberbank
retreated 3.9 percent after saying first-quarter net income fell
about 4 percent, beating analyst estimates on increased fees and
growth in lending.  The Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index
slumping 3.1 percent, the lowest level in a month, as Turkiye
Garanti Bankasi slid a third day.  The  Hang Seng (2828)  China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong slumped 1.6 percent, while the Shanghai
Composite Index rose 0.1 percent.  Zoomlion Heavy Industry
Science & Technology Co. plunged in Hong Kong after denying
allegations of falsified sales. India’s S&P BSE Sensex dropped
for the first time in four days.  Philippine stocks advanced, driving the benchmark index to
its biggest gain in more than three weeks, after Finance
Secretary Cesar Purisima said the government will ensure
economic growth stays high.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 288 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  