-- Movie-Shooting Suspect Loses Death Penalty Law Challenge
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-05-30T20:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/movie-shooting-suspect-loses-death-penalty-law-challenge.html
James Holmes, facing capital murder
charges over the Aurora,  Colorado , movie theater shooting
rampage that killed 12 people, lost a constitutional challenge
to state’s death penalty law.  State court Judge Carlos A. Samour Jr. in Centennial,
Colorado, ruled yesterday that the provisions Holmes objected to
in the state’s capital punishment statute and its laws governing
the insanity defense are constitutional. Samour today postponed
until June 4 a hearing on whether Holmes will be permitted to
plead not guilty by reason of insanity.  “The statutory provisions of the insanity statutes and the
death penalty statute challenged by the defendant are
constitutional,” Samour wrote in yesterday’s 51-page ruling.  Holmes, who studied neuroscience at the  University of
Colorado , Denver, is charged with 166 counts, including murder
and attempted murder. In addition to those killed, 70 people
were injured in the July 20 shooting spree at a midnight
screening of “The Dark Knight Rises” in  Cinemark Holdings
Inc. (CNK) ’s Century Aurora 16 theater in the Denver suburb.  “It’s a pretty detailed, thoughtful analysis of the
statute,” Karen Steinhauser, a former Denver prosecutor now in
private practice, said in a phone interview, referring to
Samour’s ruling.  Samour ruled the Colorado insanity law is constitutional
“on its face” without applying it to Holmes’s case in
particular, Steinhauser said. Lawyers for Holmes may appeal the
ruling or wait to see if the alleged flaws in the law end up
applying to their client and challenge it later, she said.  Truth Serum  Public defenders representing Holmes objected on due
process grounds to a provision of Colorado law blocking him from
calling witnesses at any sentencing hearing to present evidence
about his mental condition if he doesn’t cooperate with court-appointed psychiatrists. Under state law, psychiatrists can
require Holmes to submit to interviews under the influence of a
so-called truth serum, according to Steinhauser.  The judge who previously handled the case, William
Sylvester, ruled that prosecutors may require Holmes to submit
to a “narcoanalytic interview” under the influence of
“medically appropriate” drugs. Such drugs can enable a person
to recall something they’re having difficulty remembering.  Prosecutors in March rejected an offer from Holmes to plead
guilty and spend his life in prison without any chance of parole
in exchange for sparing him from the death penalty.  James O’Connor , the head of Colorado’s State Public
Defender office, didn’t immediately respond after regular
business hours yesterday to a phone call seeking comment on the
ruling.  Lisa Pinto, a spokeswoman for Arapahoe County District
Attorney George Brauchler, didn’t immediately respond to a call
seeking comment.  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kass in Centennial, Colorado, courthouse at  kassj@msn.com ;
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  