-- How Pirates Led Struggle for Free Markets and Open Trade
-- B y   J e a n - P h i l i p p e   V e r g n e
-- 2013-05-29T16:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/how-pirates-led-struggle-for-free-markets-and-open-trade.html
Kim Dotcom, the accused online pirate
who founded the cloud-storage service Megaupload.com, recently
made a surprising statement to the  Guardian newspaper : “I
respect copyright. What I don’t respect is copyright extremism.
And what I don’t respect is a business model that encourages
piracy.”  Before dismissing his comments as disingenuous, consider
that pirates have long been strong supporters of free markets,
fighting monopolies and other restrictions on commerce.  The rise of piracy coincides with the international trade
revolution. In 1498, Vasco da Gama sailed from  Portugal  around
the Cape of Good Hope and opened the route to the East Indies.
Over the next 15 years, Portugal sent armadas to the Indies to
eliminate the competition from Muslim traders.  This marked the beginning of a new form of economic
organization: the establishment of trade monopolies by European
states. The Portuguese crown wanted to capitalize on the new
trade opportunities that were opened by  da Gama . To do this, a
royal charter was granted to Carreira da India, a trade
organization, giving it the exclusive right to import spices to
 Europe .  State Monopolies  At the beginning of the 17th century, other European powers
entered the race to set up monopolies with the support of the
Indies companies. This is how, in 1602, the United Provinces
granted the  Dutch East India Company  a 21-year monopoly on trade
east of the Cape of Good Hope.  This led to the ruin of well-established merchants and
triggered two reactions: Some companies stood up to monopolies
by establishing a parallel, illicit trade route; others tried to
take over, by force, areas controlled by a monopoly.  States considered both actions piracy. For example, pirate
organizations operating in the late 17th and early 18th centuries
supplied the island of  Manhattan  with slaves, circumventing the
 Royal African Company , which held a monopoly on the trade. The
historian  Marcus Rediker  estimated that, at the beginning of the
18th century, incessant pirate attacks led to a crisis for the
British Empire and threatened the stability of international
trade.  Admittedly, sea pirates weren’t motivated by some high-minded idea of free markets. Rather, they were independent
merchants who had become outlaws as a result of the monopolistic
practices of European states. And many resorted to violence
after being deprived of their right to trade.  In his treatise “The Free Sea,” the 17th-century legal
scholar  Hugo Grotius  wrote that waters and navigation are “free”
because the sea is a public good that doesn’t belong to anyone.
Iberian and English sovereigns, however, claimed that the parts
of an ocean that linked their territories could be legally
appropriated.  Grotius’s viewpoint eventually won. Freedom of the open seas
-- now more than 50 percent of all water surfaces on Earth --
was achieved through a series of treaties, starting with the
1856  Declaration of Paris , which also abolished privateering. As
the historian  Anne Perotin-Dumon  put it, to eliminate piracy,
“trade monopoly had to be given up altogether.”  In many respects, the battle over freedom of the seas in the
mid-19th century was echoed by the debate about the freedom of
the airwaves at the beginning of the 20th.  BBC Charter  In the 1920s, the U.K. government issued a royal charter
granting a monopoly to the British Broadcasting Corporation --
the same kind of charter it gave the English East  India  Company
more than 300 years earlier. This allowed the government to
appropriate the airwaves, and to prevent free radio
broadcasting.  Soon after, however,  Leonard Plugge  set up the International
Broadcasting Co. and began to buy airtime from pirate  radio
stations  on offshore platforms outside territorial waters.
Plugge contested both the  BBC ’s monopoly and the underlying
principle that British sovereignty extended to the airwaves. He,
too, was considered a pirate.  Overwhelmed by the phenomenon, the U.K. government ended the
BBC’s monopoly in 1967, freeing both radio broadcasting and the
airwaves. “As of 1967, the BBC became one among many,” the
historian  Adrian Johns  wrote. “The irony is that it then found
the critical and skeptical voice it had been missing.”  Similarly, as telecommunication technologies improved,
companies with a dominant position, such as  AT&T Inc. (T) , became
increasingly interested in expanding their control into
cyberspace. Many consider AT&T to have controlled the first
monopoly in the history of cyberspace, and around 1970, it was
the preferred target of “phone phreaks” who illegally hacked
phone communications.  The interconnected histories of capitalism and piracy shed
new light on the economic tensions that now surround the
regulation of the Internet. Many of today’s pirates oppose
monopolies in all forms, from dominant positions in emerging
industries, such as online search optimization, to “copyright
extremism” in the cultural and media industries.  Activists who identify with organizations such as Wikileaks
and Anonymous are calling for “a free and open Internet,”
starting from the premise that “information wants to be free.”  By defying the rules in many industries, pirates have
demonstrated that they play a key role in the evolution of
capitalist societies.  Success will sometimes turn pirate ventures into dominant
players. One phone phreak who despised AT&T’s monopolistic
practices as a teenager famously swore, 30 years later, that he
would defend his proprietary software and wage “thermonuclear
war” on an open-source alternative called Android. His name was
 Steve Jobs .  ( Jean-Philippe Vergne  is an assistant professor of strategy
at Western University’s Ivey Business School in  Canada . This
essay is adapted from his book co-authored with R. Durand, “The
Pirate Organization: Lessons from the Fringes of Capitalism.”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Jean-Philippe Vergne at  https://twitter.com/PirateOrg  or
 pirateorganization@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  