-- How Trading Blame Led to Death Threats for ECB’s Cypriot Banker
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-05-29T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/how-trading-blame-led-to-death-threats-for-ecb-s-cypriot-banker.html
When Panicos Demetriades’s phone rang
at about 7 a.m. on March 16, the Cypriot  central bank  governor
had already read the bad news he was about to hear.  On the line was his then deputy, Spyros Stavrinakis,
passing on details of a deal the Cypriot president had agreed to
overnight 2,000 miles away in Brussels: Every bank account on
the island would be raided to help pay for a rescue that already
amounted to 10 billion euros ($12.9 billion) of foreign aid.  While the bailout terms were subsequently eased, life for
Demetriades became harder. A year after the 54-year-old left his
professorship in  England , he remains engulfed by a standoff
unprecedented in the euro’s 14-year history. Death threats and a
parliamentary probe ensued, with European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  now embroiled in the political and personal feud.  “As an academic, you don’t get this sort of pressure,”
said Professor Stephen Hall, a former colleague of Demetriades
at Leicester University and an adviser to the  Bank of Greece. (TELL) 
“He feels that if he resigns now, that would be like admitting
the things they are saying about him are true.”  A committee of lawmakers in Cyprus may consider this week a
bill put forward by the ruling party that could dilute the power
of the governor on the central bank’s board.  Spotlight  Demetriades’s story is one of how an academic who spent
more than two decades teaching at English universities found
himself at the center of his native land’s biggest crisis since
the Turkish invasion that divided the island in 1974.  He took the central bank post in May 2012 after being
appointed by the previous government, inheriting an economy
struggling with a widening budget deficit and locked out of
international debt markets.  After stocking up on the government debt of  Greece  even as
that country entered a downward spiral that would bring it close
to leaving the euro, Cypriot banks were bleeding from losses
equivalent to as much as 25 percent of gross domestic product.  As the damage to the banking industry became clear, the
relationship between Demetriades and the new government of Nicos Anastasiades went from bad to worse, deteriorating to the point
where the government committed to sell the country’s gold
without informing its treasurer, the central bank.  ‘Loggerheads’  The thought that a euro-area country could sell its gold
reserves helped push global prices for the metal to their lowest
level in more than two years.  “Central bank independence is important for financial
markets as it provides shelter from political interference,”
said Anatoli Annenkov, senior European economist at  Societe
Generale  in  London . “It is of course not helpful when major
policy institutions are at loggerheads.”  For the time being, Demetriades is digging in. With his
family in exile and two public investigations hanging over him,
he says he’s done nothing wrong. As part of his position, he
sits on the Governing Council of the ECB in  Frankfurt .  “There have been daily allegations by various government
officials and members of parliament alleging that I have
committed criminal offenses,” Demetriades, in a gray, open-necked shirt and gray slacks, said in an interview in Dublin on
April 13. The political wrangling “is hampering my ability to
manage a very difficult situation,” he said.  Allegations  The primary complaint against him, described in a letter
dated April 15 from President Anastasiades to Draghi, is that he
kept the now-defunct Laiki Bank artificially afloat throughout
the second half of 2012 to enable the country to reach elections
in February 2013 without needing a bailout.  The charges mirror Cypriot politics. The fact that
Demetriades was hired by the previous, nominally communist
government hobbled him from the moment Anastasiades, from the
centre-right Disy party, won a presidential election this year.  “The support he would have got from the government that
appointed him is not what he is getting from the current
administration,” said Hall at Leicester University.  Government spokesman Christos Stylianides declined to
comment on central bank affairs when contacted this week.  While Demetriades declined to comment for this story, the
central bank denied any culpability of its chief in a statement
distributed on April 29. “The governor, with his timely
statements and actions, prevented a disorderly bankruptcy of
Laiki bank and consequently the country itself,” it said.  Predecessor Speaks  That was followed by an attack by his predecessor,
 Athanasios Orphanides , who ran the central bank from 2007 to
2012. He said Demetriades then deliberately exaggerated the
recapitalization needs of banks to disguise the fact that the
government of Demetris Christofias, who came to power in 2008
until this year, had overspent.  “You had the central bank starting to characterize the
banking system in Cyprus as “Casino banking,”’ Orphanides, now
a senior lecturer at the  MIT Sloan School of Management , said in
London on May 15. “They actually succeeded in creating the
image that the banking system was so severely undercapitalized
that the debt of the country would be unsustainable.”  Cypriot banks were headed for trouble long before
Demetriades was appointed. They swelled to more than five times
the island’s GDP partly through being a safe-hold for Russian
funds and a financial services hub for nearby countries like
Lebanon. Cyprus adopted the euro in 2008.  Then came the losses because of holdings of Greek bonds
banks had snapped up to make money from the difference in yield
over other parts of the euro region. Greece became in April 2010
the first member of the common currency to ask for a bailout.
Less than two years later, it restructured its bonds.  Sudden Pain  The early-morning phone call Demetriades took in Nicosia
came at the start of two weeks of political and market turmoil
on the Mediterranean island after the decision to tax bank
deposits as part of the rescue opened the latest chapter in
 Europe ’s management of a debt crisis now in its fourth year.  In the following days, the country’s parliament would
reject the bill, setting the clock counting down to the March 25
deadline when the ECB in Frankfurt would demand an end to
central bank funding to the banks if no deal was reached.  The impact on the Cyprus was “painful and sudden,” and
the country now found itself at “the most critical moment,”
according to a statement sent that day by then-Bank of Cyprus
Chairman Andreas Artemis.  A second agreement was signed in Brussels at the 11th hour
that protected deposits under 100,000 euros. The banking
industry shrank to three times GDP as Laiki, the second-largest,
was shuttered and folded into the larger  Bank of Cyprus .  Death Threats  Having spent much of his academic life teasing out a theory
of how the growth of finance in  developing countries  can aid the
economy, Demetriades now found himself having to manage the
decline of his own country’s banks.  Cyprus was about to join Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  in
having to implement spending cuts in return for aid. He
estimated that through crunching the banks, the bailout will
shrink the Cypriot economy by almost 9 percent this year alone.
The death threats started.  A letter, dated March 20 and addressed to both Demetriades
and President Anastasiades, turned up in early April. According
to the Cyprus Mail, which published excerpts, the “Deposit
Rescue Group” pledged revenge on their families unless haircuts
on deposits were stopped.  Two more threats on Demetriades’s life were sent, one to
the central bank and one to a local newspaper. He moved his
wife, a fellow academic, and their children out of the country.  Blame Game  As the government and the central bank fought to impose
order in the financial system, the blame game began.  On April 2, Anastasiades, a trained lawyer, appointed three
former Supreme Court judges to investigate “a series of acts or
omissions by individuals authorized to manage the economy and
its banking system led the country to the brink of bankruptcy
and to the dissolution of one of its largest banks.”  The provision of so-called Emergency Liquidity Assistance
for so long “raises questions” over the central bank’s
independence and the governor’s relationship with the previous
government, according to a letter from Anastasiades to Draghi
dated April 15.  Anastasiades wrote to Draghi that confidence in the
island’s central bank governor had drained away, demonstrated by
the fact that by April 15 three board members, Haralambos Akhniotis, Andreas Matsis and Louis Christofides, had resigned.
Anastasiades had revoked the appointment of Deputy Governor
Stavrinakis three days earlier.  No Trust?  “I believe these resignations clearly indicate that
Governor Demetriades does not even enjoy the trust and
confidence of the institution he is running,” he said.  Replacements Alexandros Michalides, Michalis Spanos,
Stelios Koiliaris were named to the board for five-year terms on
May 24, the Cypriot Press Ministry said this week.  In Frankfurt, the collapse of the board looked like
political interference in central bank affairs, a cardinal sin
in Europe since the euro’s founding treaty.  In a letter sent in April, Draghi warned Anastasiades that
Cyprus could find itself before the European Court of Justice if
allegations against Demetriades continued. The details of the
letter were published by media in Cyprus.  A new fault line then emerged over the sale of some of
Cyprus’s  gold reserves . The government initially agreed with
euro-area finance ministers to sell 400 million euros of gold
reserves. Yet politicians hadn’t asked the central bank, which
like all such institutions in the euro area is trusted with the
management of the national reserves.  Dublin Meeting  “The government seems to have committed to a sale of state
gold without consulting the central bank,” said Demetriades,
visibly agitated, during the interview on April 13 in Dublin
where European finance ministers and central bankers had
convened. “The independence of the central bank of Cyprus is
being attacked at this time.”  While Demetriades attempts to reduce the first  capital
controls  in the euro’s history, new threats are emerging.  A bill sponsored by Disy, the president’s party, has been
proposed that would give the government the right to appoint
more members to the board of the central bank than it does now,
two of whom would have executive powers.  With parliamentary and judicial investigations hanging over
him, Demetriades is staying put. He described a meeting with
Anastasiades on April 25 as “creative.”  Cambridge Years  As a post-graduate student at  Cambridge University  in the
mid-1980s, Demetriades was “more of the engaged type,” said
Hesham Pesaran, now emeritus professor of economics at
Cambridge, who supervised part of his doctorate on the costs of
inflation. “He was open to discussion, even at a younger age,
and still is,” Pesaran said by telephone from  Los Angeles .  Yet the breakdown in trust has laid bare the strains when
countries need a bailout, said Christofides, one of the board
members of the Central Bank of Cyprus who resigned in April.  “Independence of the central bank is a tricky affair,”
Christofides, a professor of economics at the University of
Cyprus in Nicosia, said in an interview. “It was conceived as
concerning a single issue, namely  price stability , but things
are very much more complex now. It’s inconceivable that the
central bank wouldn’t be in touch with the government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  