-- Pacific Rubiales May Gain 70 Percent on Cost Cuts, BTG Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2013-05-29T18:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/pacific-rubiales-may-gain-70-percent-on-cost-cuts-btg-says.html
Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PREC)  is
poised to gain 70 percent over the next year as the Colombian
driller cuts operating costs by reducing the use of trucks to
bring oil to market,  Banco BTG Pactual SA (BPAC3)  analysts said.  Bogota-based Pacific Rubiales said in April it will try to
lower operating costs per barrel, which jumped 17 percent in
2012 from a year earlier to $39.77. The company recently
received environmental licenses that will allow it to build
treatment facilities closer to production areas or build
pipelines to carry the oil to existing facilities in one of its
fields, BTG analysts Gustavo Gattass and Andres Cardona wrote in
a report today.  “With a visible cost-cutting strategy in place that
already seems to be yielding some results, there is room for
improving profitability,” the analysts wrote. “The cost
equation could still improve, providing the stock with some
additional momentum throughout the year.”  Part of the inefficiencies at Pacific Rubiales stemmed from
the need to cut some oil with 80 percent to 90 percent water at
its Quifa field before trucking, according to BTG.  “That means that Pacific was trucking anywhere between
four and nine barrels of water for every barrel of oil that it
was eventually able to produce, facing a massive in-field
transportation cost that is booked as part of its consolidated
lifting costs,” according to the report.  Cutting costs by an average $8 per barrel may have the same
impact as if production grew by an additional 8.8 percent this
year, the report said.  BTG’s target price is C$35.50 over the next 12 months. The
company’s shares traded in Toronto fell by 1.1 percent to $20.97
as of 1:36 p.m. in Toronto. The Bogota-traded shares fell by 0.8
percent to 38,240 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  