-- Pakistan Taliban’s Deputy Chief Killed in Drone Attack, WSJ Says
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-05-29T11:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/pakistan-taliban-s-deputy-chief-killed-in-drone-attack-wsj-says.html
The deputy commander of the Pakistani
Taliban movement has been killed in a U.S. drone strike in the
country’s tribal regions bordering  Afghanistan , the Wall Street
Journal reported, citing officials it didn’t name.  Wali-ur-Rehman died in North Waziristan, the paper said in
the first drone attack since the May 11 general election in
 Pakistan . Three Pakistani security officials and residents
confirmed the killing, it reported without identifying them.  A
Taliban spokesman called the reports false, the Associated Press
said.  Prime Minister-designate Nawaz Sharif is scheduled to begin
a third term in office next week and has vowed to open peace
talks with the Taliban in a bid to end their insurgency. Along
with other Pakistani leaders, Sharif has called for an end to
drone attacks in the tribal area, saying the civilian casualties
they cause help the guerrillas recruit support.  Pakistan said in a statement it was concerned “over the
U.S. drone attack that occurred in North Waziristan” today.  “The drone strikes are counter-productive, entail loss of
innocent civilian lives, have human rights and humanitarian
implications and violate the principles of national
sovereignty,” the foreign ministry in Islamabad said in the
statement without commenting on reports of Wali-ur-Rehman’s
death.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said May 23 that his country
will reduce the number of attacks by the pilotless aircraft in
countries where it is fighting Islamist extremists and would
tighten the rules governing who can be targeted. The U.S.
military, instead of the Central Intelligence Agency, will be
the lead authority for drone strikes, administration officials
said.  $5 Million  Officials at the media unit of Pakistan’s army didn’t
immediately return calls seeking details of today’s drone
strike.  The U.S. in 2010 announced a bounty of $5 million each on
Wali-ur-Rehman and the chief of Pakistan’s Taliban insurgency,
Hakimullah Mehsud. It has also urged Pakistan’s army to extend
offensives against the Taliban and allied militants to parts of
North Waziristan from where guerrillas attack U.S. and Afghan
forces across the border.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  