-- Patriot Coal Wins Leave to Cut Retiree Pensions, Benefits
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-05-29T21:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/patriot-coal-wins-approval-to-cut-retiree-pensions-benefits-1-.html
Patriot Coal Corp. (PCXCQ) , the bankrupt
mining company, won court approval of a proposal to reduce
pensions and benefits to 13,000 unionized workers and retirees.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kathy Surratt-States in St. Louis
today approved the company’s request after a week-long hearing
earlier this month in which protesters gathered outside the
courthouse. The union said in a statement after her ruling that
it intends to appeal in a federal court. Patriot said it won’t
impose the cuts without first trying to negotiate a resolution.  Patriot has already been through 12 rounds of negotiations
with the United Mine Workers of America, disputing the outlook
for coal prices, the fairness of its proposal to retired miners
and the possibility of recoveries from a potential lawsuit over
 Peabody Energy Corp (BTU) ’s 2007 spinoff of Patriot.  “As it happens so much in life, a mutually satisfactory
resolution was out of reach,” Surratt-States said in the
ruling. She overruled objections from the unions and said that
without relief from its retiree costs, the company would be
forced to liquidate.  The ruling will save more than 4,000 jobs, and Patriot will
continue to honor old contracts while it continues to negotiate,
Patriot said today in a statement.  “The savings contemplated by this ruling, together with
other cost reductions implemented across our company, will put
Patriot on course to becoming a viable business,” Patriot Chief
Executive Officer Bennett Hatfield said in the statement.  Company Survival  Patriot said it needed to cut retiree benefits now or run
out of money by 2014, pitting the survival of the bankrupt coal
miner against health care and pensions for 13,000 retired miners
and their families. A liquidation would be a worse outcome for
retirees than the proposed cuts, Patriot said.  The UMWA called the ruling “wrong” and said it will
continue to meet with the company this week to see if it can
reach an agreement on how to help Patriot through its “rough
period” without significantly reducing its members’ living
standards.  “As often happens under American bankruptcy law, the
short-term interests of the company are valued more than the
dedication and sacrifice of the workers, who actually produce
the profits that make a company successful,” UMWA President
Cecil Roberts said.  The UMWA said it would continue to try to hold Peabody and
 Arch Coal Inc. (ACI)  responsible for Patriot’s financial situation.  Peabody Spinoff  The UMWA has contended that Patriot hasn’t been quick
enough to take action against Peabody, which profited by
spinning off Patriot in 2007, giving it 16 percent of its assets
and 40 percent of its retiree liability.  Patriot acquired more retiree liabilities when it bought
Magnum Coal in 2008. Magnum had been cut from a similar cloth,
as Arch Coal created it in 2005, designing it to fail by giving
it 12 percent of its assets and 97 percent of its retiree
health-care liabilities, the UMWA has said in court papers.  Patriot has more than three times as many retirees as
miners, and 90 percent of its retirees never worked for Patriot.  Patriot has said in court papers that it is considering
whether the 2007 transaction that created it “constituted an
actual or constructive fraudulent transfer” that could recoup
money to be shared among all its creditors. It says the spinoff
rid Peabody of $600 million in health-care and environmental
liabilities, and on April 23, won court permission to deepen its
probe of whether a lawsuit is possible.  Benefits Lawsuit  Separately, Patriot has already sued Peabody over whether
the former parent can reduce benefits to retirees if Patriot
does. Surratt-States also ruled today that Patriot’s request to
have the court declare that Peabody’s obligations won’t be
changed by its own actions is denied.  Patriot filed for bankruptcy in July, citing falling demand
for coal and obligations to pay $1.6 billion in lifetime health
care for its 8,100 retirees. St. Louis-based Patriot had already
been negotiating with the UMWA for four months, and since its
Chapter 11 filing it has submitted four new proposals, each one
with more concessions, the company said.  “This is about preserving jobs,” Hatfield testified on
May 1. “I think if they listen to our proposal they will
understand that.”  He said the current coal market is the worst he’s seen in
his 30 years in the industry, and that if Patriot liquidates, he
thinks, the union jobs will go away forever. “I am not out to
bust the union,” Hatfield said.  Union Stance  The United Mine Workers of America, or UMWA, which
represents about 42 percent of Patriot’s 4,000 employees, said
the proposal sought changes that were necessary only in light of
the company’s self-imposed liquidity and earnings targets.
Meanwhile, it would strip 13,000 retirees of benefits earned in
decades of collective bargaining, reversing programs first
implemented after President Harry S. Truman seized U.S. coal
mines 1946, the organization said.  “Patriot hopes to break the union,” Fred Perillo, a
lawyer for the UMWA, said in closing arguments May 3. He said
Patriot can’t survive without its union, and that the UMWA’s
stance is “no contract, no work.”  The case In re Patriot Coal Corp., 12-bk-51502,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of  Missouri  ( St. Louis ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in  New York 
at   tkary@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  