-- Peugeot Says No Capital Increase Planned Following Report
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-05-29T10:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/peugeot-declines-on-report-of-possible-capital-increase.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  said it’s not
planning to sell new shares following a French newspaper report
that  Europe ’s second-biggest automaker was considering that
option as the region’s auto market sinks a sixth straight year.  “A capital increase is not on the agenda,” Jean-Baptiste
Mounier, a spokesman for the Paris-based company, said in a
phone interview today.  The  carmaker  is actively discussing an eventual share sale,
La Tribune said today, citing an unidentified person close to
the matter. The controlling Peugeot family has discussed what
percentage of dilution would be acceptable for them, the
newspaper said.  Peugeot has been selling bonds, disposing of assets and
cutting production capacity to restore profit as Europe’s auto
market contracts to a 20-year low. The manufacturer said today
it remains committed to reducing its cash-consumption rate 50
percent in 2013 and reaching the break-even level by 2014 after
burning through 3 billion euros ($3.87 billion) last year.  “When you look at other companies in the sector, only  Fiat (F) 
has a weaker balance sheet,” Sascha Gommel, a Frankfurt-based
analyst at Commerzbank AG with a reduce  recommendation  on the
shares, said by phone. “The share price has increased quite a
bit since the start of the year, so this gives some foundation
to the rumor.”  Peugeot  dropped  as much as 5 percent to 6.99 euros and was
trading down 1.9 percent as of 12:42 p.m. in Paris. The stock,
which yesterday closed at the highest since May 22, has gained
32 percent this year, valuing the company at 2.56 billion euros.  Union Talks  The company started talks with unions today on further
spending-reduction measures after reaching agreements with labor
leaders in previous weeks on terms for scaling back its French
workforce by 17 percent and closing a factory on the outskirts
of Paris.  Management told union representatives that Peugeot wants
the negotiations to result in “much more” than 100 million
euros in cost cuts, Christian Lafaye, head of the FO union, said
in a phone interview.  Peugeot’s  disposals  of non-carmaking businesses last year
included the sales of the Citer vehicle-rental unit to
Enterprise Holdings Inc. for 440 million euros and a 75 percent
stake in its Gefco trucking operation to OAO Russian Railways
for 800 million euros. The company said on May 22 that it will
shut a French research facility and move most of the site’s 660
employees to other locations nearby in another cost-cut effort.  Debt Sales  The carmaker sold a 1 billion-euro five-year bond in
February and its Banque PSA Finance car-loan unit sold 1.2
billion euros in one-year debt in March. The banking division’s
bond sale is guaranteed by the French state under temporary
approval by European Union regulators.  The government agreed last year to back as much as 7
billion euros of Banque PSA Finance’s new bond sales. The EU has
granted provisional clearance on the lower amount on condition
that  France  submit a reorganization plan by mid-2013 for
Peugeot’s recovery that doesn’t depend on state aid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  