-- Peyto Drilling in Natural Gas Downturn Rewards Investors
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-05-29T15:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/peyto-drilling-in-natural-gas-downturn-rewards-investors.html
Peyto Exploration & Development
Corp. (PEY) ,  Canada ’s best-performing energy stock, is riding a
rebound in natural gas prices after tripling output as peers
shut wells and shifted to oil during an 86 percent slump in the
fuel from 2008 to 2012.  The Calgary-based company, which will continue the drilling
campaign this year with its largest-ever capital program, is the
 top performer  in the 57-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX Energy
Index in the last 12 months on a total return basis. It gained
71 percent through yesterday including dividends, compared with
12 percent for the energy index and a 0.7 percent decline for
Canada’s largest gas producer,  Encana Corp. (ECA)   “They drilled through a tough period which meant that as
prices came back, they had more production to tie in,” Greg Dean, a Toronto-based portfolio manager at CI Investments Inc.’s
Cambridge Global Asset Management, which oversees C$7 billion
($6.7 billion) including 3 million Peyto shares, said in a
telephone interview May 24. Other producers were “more risk
averse,” he said.  North American  gas prices  plummeted from a peak of $13.577
per million British thermal units in 2008 to a decade low of
$1.907 in April 2012 amid the global financial crisis and a
supply glut from shale. Gas prices have since doubled, closing
at $4.174 in  New York  yesterday.  ‘Less Competition’  “We have far less competition in the industry right now
because most companies can’t make these gas prices work,” Peyto
Chief Executive Officer Darren Gee said in a phone interview on
May 24. Peyto also benefits from being the country’s lowest-cost
producer, according to FirstEnergy Capital Corp.  Peyto’s low-cost advantage will to serve it well as
continental gas prices remain historically low and “range
bound” between $2 and $5, Gee said. Producers can quickly
increase supply and power plants can reduce demand by switching
to coal for fuel, he said.  The company keeps costs down by focusing on the Deep Basin
in  Alberta , an area with stacked gas-rich formations, and by
building its own facilities, the CEO said. It doesn’t develop
higher-cost oil and avoids producing so-called sour gas. About
10 percent of output is higher-priced gas liquids that boost
returns, he said.  Production Boost  Peyto generates a 30 percent operating margin with gas at
$2.00, Robert Fitzmartyn, a Calgary-based analyst at FirstEnergy
who recommends investors buy the stock, said in a phone
interview on May 24. Peyto fell 1.5 percent to C$30.60 at 11:06
a.m. in Toronto. It has risen 35 percent this year through
yesterday.  The energy company, which tripled output in the last three
years, plans to increase production to 100,000 barrels a day by
2017, from 60,000, Gee said, largely by drilling on its own
land, spending as much as C$500 million this year. There aren’t
any companies Peyto is looking to acquire, though there may be
properties the company is interested in, Gee said, declining to
be specific.  Encana plans to keep gas output unchanged in 2013, while
directing 80 percent of its  capital budget  to almost doubling
output of oil and liquids, the company said on Feb. 14.  “Our highest margins right now are in oil and natural gas
liquids,” Jay Averill, an Encana spokesman, said in a phone
interview on May 27. He declined to comment on stock
performance.  North American producers are boosting gas reserves, and
planning export plants to sell to  Asia , after building
facilities to import the fuel last decade. Canada has  an
estimated  664 trillion cubic feet of marketable gas, according
to the  National Energy Board . The figures represent 100 to 200
years of domestic supply, Joe Oliver, the nation’s natural
resources minister, said in a Feb. 26 interview.  Upside Limited  Gains in Peyto may be limited with the company trading at a
premium, according to figures from Salman Partners Inc., a
Vancouver-based investment dealer. The stock’s price relative to
2013 estimated funds generated by the company is 9.7 times,
compared with 9 times for  Trilogy Energy Corp. (TET)  and 6.9 times for
 Bonavista Energy Corp. (BNP) , according to Salman Partners.  “We think Peyto is pretty close to full value,” Gordon Currie, a Calgary-based analyst at Salman Partners who rates
Peyto a buy, said by phone on May 27.  Peyto has a C$32.40 average 12-month price target from 17
analysts, and 15 buy, 2 sell and 2 hold  recommendations . Net
income declined 26 percent to C$93.95 million in 2012 from a
year earlier, as expenses rose.  Longer-term investors should buy Peyto on rising gas
prices, according to FirstEnergy, which forecasts an average of
$4.75 on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  next year.  “Because of the growth rate, because of the cost structure
and our expectation of a natural gas price recovery, Peyto would
look pretty compelling into 2015,” FirstEnergy’s Fitzmartyn
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  