-- Philippines Says It Obeyed Engagement Rules in Sea Shooting
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2013-05-29T12:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/philippines-says-it-followed-rules-of-engagement-in-sea-shooting.html
The  Philippines  said a coast guard
vessel obeyed the rules of engagement when it fired on a
Taiwanese boat in a May 9 confrontation that killed a fisherman
and strained relations between the two countries.  Officers on the patrol boat opened fire when the fishing
vessel’s crew tried to stop them from boarding a separate,
bigger Taiwanese ship that was also in the Philippines’
exclusive economic zone, Transportation Secretary Joseph Abaya
told reporters in Manila today. The shots were meant to
immobilize the fishing boat that was blocking the way, he said.  “We complied with the rules of engagement,” Abaya said.
“There is no authority to fire at human beings or target them,
and whoever died was not seen.”  Taiwan  and the Philippines are separately investigating the
shooting, which has soured trade ties after Taiwan rejected
President Benigno Aquino’s offer of an apology and imposed
economic punishments. The standoff highlights strains in a part
of the South China Sea beset by competing territorial claims
from countries including Taiwan, the Philippines, Vietnam and
China.  “We want to show that if China intrudes into our waters,
we will take an equally harsh stance,” Benito Lim, a political
science professor at the Ateneo de Manila University, said by
phone. “Aquino could have officially apologized and scolded the
coast guard to end it all, but he didn’t.”  ’Continuously Monitoring’  Travel agencies have canceled trips amid a broader
Taiwanese halt to diplomatic engagement. Taiwanese visitors, who
made up 4.2 percent of the 1.27 million foreigners who came to
the Philippines in the first quarter, may drop by about 20,000 a
month after a travel warning from Taiwan’s government,
Philippine Tourism Secretary Ramon Jimenez said yesterday.  In an interview earlier this month, the captain of the
Taiwanese fishing boat, Hung Yu-chi, called the Philippine coast
guard attack unprovoked and said his fishing boat had been in
Taiwanese waters. He said his father was struck by a bullet and
killed as he and the crew hid in an engine room.  No traces of a collision were found on the hull of the
fishing boat, Taiwan’s Justice Ministry said in a statement on
its website today.  Philippine authorities are “continuously monitoring” the
fishing area off the coast of the northern Philippine province
of Batanes in the South  China  Sea, where the shooting occurred,
Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Director Asis Perez
said in a separate briefing today.  Agriculture officials from the Philippines and Taiwan  will
hold fishery talks by July as part of a continuing dialogue, he
said, adding that meeting had been scheduled before the
diplomatic tensions began.  Conduct Code  “We hope to establish a code of conduct for fishing and to
ensure the safety of fishermen,” Taiwan Foreign Affairs
Ministry spokeswoman Anna Kao said by phone today. She called
Perez’s remarks a “positive development.”  The Philippines assured China it would only send food and
water to its soldiers on Ayungin Shoal in the disputed Spratly
Island area and won’t build other structures there, Defense
Secretary Voltaire Gazmin told reporters in a separate briefing
today after meeting with Chinese Ambassador Ma Keqing.  China is monitoring the BRP Sierra Madre vessel that serves
as a base for Philippine soldiers after it went aground in 1999
on the shoal, which is 110 nautical miles off Palawan province,
Gazmin said in  Manila .  There are currently two Chinese surveillance vessels in the
area, Philippine Navy spokesman Colonel Edgard Arevalo said by
phone today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  