-- Pilot Corp. Employees Plead Guilty in Fuel-Rebate Probe
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-05-29T21:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/pilot-corp-employees-plead-guilty-in-fuel-rebate-probe.html
Two employees of Pilot Corp. pleaded
guilty to federal fraud charges as the U.S. investigates fuel
rebate practices at the Pilot Flying J truck-stop business, run
by Cleveland Browns owner Jimmy Haslam.  Arnold Ralenkotter, regional sales director, and Ashley
Judd, a regional account executive, were charged by the U.S.
this month with participating in a scheme to reduce rebate check
amounts to some of Pilot’s trucking company customers while
pretending to pay agreed-upon discounts.  Ralenkotter pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to
commit mail fraud and  wire fraud  today in federal court in
Knoxville,  Tennessee . Judd also pleaded guilty to conspiracy.  The guilty pleas are part of an investigation of the rebate
program by the U.S. Justice Department. The U.S. executed search
warrants on the Pilot Flying J office in Knoxville last month,
according to court filings.  More charges should be expected, Edward Yarbrough,
Ralenkotter’s attorney, said in a phone interview. He said his
client is cooperating with the U.S. No sentencing date has been
set for Ralenkotter, he said.  “The progress of the case will determine when the
sentencing hearing will occur,” according to Yarbrough.  Norman McKellar, Judd’s lawyer, didn’t immediately return a
call for comment.  Customer Claims  Pilot, Haslam and other company executives are facing
several lawsuits by customers over rebate practices. The suits
include one filed in federal court in  Chicago  this month seeking
class status on behalf of all people and entities that were
party to fuel rebate and discount contracts with the defendants
from January 2005 to the present.  Haslam, who owns the  National Football League ’s Cleveland 
franchise, said in an April 18 statement that the company was
cooperating in the federal probe.  “The foundation of this company is built on its integrity
and that any willful wrongdoing by any employee of this company
at any time is intolerable,” he said.  The cases are U.S. v. Ralenkotter, 13-cr-00063, U.S. v.
Judd, 13-cr-00058, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Tennessee (Knoxville).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  