-- Pimco Flags RBA Rate Cuts as New Normal Arrives Down Under
-- B y   G a r f i e l d   R e y n o l d s   a n d   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-05-29T11:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/pimco-sees-more-rba-rate-cuts-as-mining-slowdown-hits-australia.html
Australia’s central bank may need to
cut record-low  interest rates  at least two more times as mining
investment peaks and slowing growth in China damps exports, said
Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund.  With resources investment providing 60 percent of
Australian economic growth last year, policy makers need to act
to support other sources of domestic demand, Sydney-based
portfolio managers Adam Bowe and  Robert Mead  said today. The
Aussie dollar is still high enough to restrict the economy even
after dropping to a 1 1/2-year low, they said.  “Australian and global policy rates are reconverging and
the risks are that there are more rate cuts to come rather than
less,” Bowe said today in a phone interview. “The single cut
currently being priced in by the markets looks like it won’t be
sufficient unless the exchange rate suffers a more meaningful
correction than the current decline.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia indicated weak inflation
gives it scope for further reductions after cutting its
benchmark rate to 2.75 percent this month. Non-mining industries
are struggling to take up the slack in the economy, damped by a
currency that is more than 20 percent overvalued on a purchasing
power basis. The government last week said the resources-investment boom may be at its peak as A$150 billion ($144
billion) of projects have been scrapped or delayed.  Aussie Plunges  The Australian dollar has plunged 7.1 percent this month to
96.34 U.S. cents as of 12:40 p.m. in  London , the steepest drop
among the Group of 10 developed-mark currencies. It touched
95.28, a level unseen since Oct. 5, 2011.  “Certainly if the Australian dollar continues to decline
that will take some pressure off the RBA, but the recent fall
has just taken us back to the lows of the past couple of years,
which still leaves the  exchange rate  very restrictive,” Bowe
said.  The prospect of further support from fiscal spending is
limited unless the government actively decides to increase debt,
Pimco said. The bond manager sees revenue remaining subdued --
with national income growth already at low levels rarely seen
outside of recessions -- keeping the  federal budget  in deficit
for a couple of years. While housing could make a contribution
to demand, it is likely to be modest, according to Mead and
Bowe.  New Normal  “Lower interest rates will likely be required to support
domestic demand as Australia transitions away from mining-assisted growth,” Bowe and Mead wrote in a report published
earlier today. “The New Normal has finally arrived down
under.”  Pimco, based in  Newport Beach ,  California , and managing
more than $2 trillion of assets worldwide, popularized the
phrase “New Normal” to describe an era of lackluster growth
and lower returns in the world economy following the 2008
financial crisis.  The extra yield Australian government bonds offer over U.S.
Treasuries may shrink further after reaching four-year lows,
because Australia’s economy is slowing at the same time U.S.
prospects are improving, Mead said.  “The recent narrowing in the premium Aussie bonds offer
over Treasuries shows the market recognizing that potential
growth rates have clearly converged,” Mead said by phone. “We
think there is still room for that gap to tighten further.”  The gap between benchmark 10-year Australian yields and
Treasuries has shrunk 15 basis points since April 30 to 127
basis points and touched 116 yesterday, the least since November
2008.  Income Weakens  Pimco sees the need for additional incentives to help
business investment in industries apart from mining, which have
faced “considerable headwinds” over recent years, including a
strong local currency and competition for labor and capital from
the resources sector. Household consumption growth is already at
trend rate and unlikely to take up the slack, while slowing
growth in  China , Australia’s biggest trading partner, could
weigh on exports, Pimco said.  Standard Chartered Plc said today the RBA may lower rates
again as early as next week.  “Further monetary impetus is essential to boost the
economy,” the bank said in a note from analysts including
Callum Henderson, Singapore-based head of currency research.
“Inflation is benign and the recent Australian dollar move
lower is not an impediment to further central bank easing.”  Ford’s Exit  The Aussie’s retreat came too late to save Ford Motor Co.’s
Australian unit, which announced this month it will pull out
from car manufacturing nine decades after it started making
Model Ts at Geelong, west of  Melbourne . Ford  Australia  said its
costs are double those in  Europe  and four times those in  Asia .  The local dollar is still 23 percent higher against the
greenback than differences in producer prices would suggest,
making it the most overvalued after the kiwi among nine major
currencies tracked on that basis by Bloomberg.  Australian  consumer confidence  slumped in May by the most
in 17 months as a government announcement the budget would
remain in deficit overshadowed record-low rates, according to a
private report. The government in December abandoned a pledge to
achieve a surplus this fiscal year and on May 14 projected a
shortfall of A$19.4 billion.  The prospect of lower RBA rates is likely to drive gains
for local bonds, Pimco said today.  “At these levels we are starting to see very good value
come back into the five- to 10-year part of the Australian rates
structure,” Mead said. “We maintain our preference for very
high-quality spread products -- covered bonds, residential
mortgage-backed securities and semi-government notes.”  Benchmark 10-year bond yields rose Australian 10-year rates
rose 38 basis points since April 30 to 3.48 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  