-- Polish GDP Grew More Than Initial Estimate in First Quarter
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s   a n d   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2013-05-29T11:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/polish-gdp-grew-0-5-in-first-quarter-above-initial-estimate.html
Poland ’s economy grew at a quicker
pace in the first three months than an initial estimate, fueled
by growing net exports and recovering consumption.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.5 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a preliminary 0.4 percent estimate
released May 14, according to a statement today from the Central
Statistical Office in Warsaw. The reading matched the median
estimate of 36 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Growth in the European Union’s largest eastern economy has
slowed as the 17-nation euro region, which buys more than half
of Polish exports, remains stuck in a record-long recession. Net
exports remain the only driver of the economy, according to Bank
Millennium economist  Grzegorz Maliszewski .  “There are no signs of what could stimulate economic
growth in the future, so the expected recovery will be anemic,”
Maliszewski wrote today by e-mail. The uncertain outlook will
hold back corporate investment and public spending won’t fill
the gap, he said.  The zloty weakened to 4.2314 per euro at 1:08 p.m. in
Warsaw from 4.1918 yesterday. The  yield  on the benchmark two-year zloty bond rose three basis points to 2.61 percent.  ‘Safety Cushion’  The data show Poland’s “growth engine was slowed to a
crawl while avoiding a recession,” Elzbieta Chojna-Duch of the
central bank’s Monetary Policy Council said today in an
interview on TVN CNBC. While there’s room to cut rates, Chojna-Duch told the broadcaster she favors “less radical” reductions
that would give the central bank a “safety cushion” in case
the economy gets buffeted by external shocks later this year.  Private consumption and fixed investment improved from the
fourth quarter, according to today’s figures. Private
consumption was unchanged from a year earlier, compared with a
0.2 percent decline in the October-December period, while fixed
investment fell 2 percent, paring the fourth quarter’s 4.1
percent drop, the statistics office said.  “The most important thing is private consumption, because
that allows us to gauge consumers’ propensity to spend or to
save and could set the consumption track for all of 2013,”
Radoslaw Bodys, chief economist at PKO Bank Polski in Warsaw,
wrote today in an e-mailed research note before the release.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  