-- Port Volumes Lead Trucking on Spending Optimism: EcoPulse
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2013-05-29T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/port-volumes-lead-trucking-on-spending-optimism-ecopulse.html
An increase in goods entering
 California  is signaling optimism about the resilience of U.S.
consumer spending and the trucking industry this year.  The combined inbound-container volume at the  Los Angeles 
and Long Beach ports has risen 3.5 percent in the first four
months of 2013 from a year earlier, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That comes after total imports through these
locations grew 0.9 percent last year compared with 2011.  The activity suggests that an increase of 3 percent to 5
percent -- consistent with modest consumption growth -- is
attainable this year, even as retailers keep inventories lean,
said Todd Fowler, vice president and analyst in  Cleveland  with
KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., the investment banking arm of
KeyCorp. Rising shipments through these ports -- which account
for almost 50 percent of all container imports -- bode well for
truckers because the same retailers that are top importers are
typically the biggest customers of large trucking companies, he
said.  “Containerized imports are a primary leading indicator of
domestic transportation volumes, with about a three-month
forward look,” Fowler said. For-hire trucking companies --
including  Swift Transportation Co. (SWFT)  and  Knight Transportation
Inc. (KNX)  -- transport a majority of the freight for big-box
retailers, so they will benefit from improved demand, he said.  Growing Volume  An index of U.S. truck loadings rose 3.9 percent to 120.95
in April from a year earlier, following a 4.2 percent gain the
prior month, based on data from FTR Associates, a Bloomington,
Indiana-based transportation-forecasting company. While this
proxy for volume has grown for 17 consecutive months, it has
moderated since the early phases of the economic recovery, when
it grew by as much as 13.5 percent in the fourth quarter of
2010, said Jonathan Starks, director of transportation analysis.  “Trucking volumes are in a positive, but not extremely
strong, stage of growth, and we expect that will continue
through 2013,” Starks said. FTR is forecasting that truck
loadings will rise by “just under 5 percent” this year, he
said, compared with 3.2 percent in 2012.  An “inconsistent economy” is causing “fits and starts”
in demand at  Werner Enterprises Inc. (WERN) , Chief Financial Officer
John Steele said at a May 15 conference hosted by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch. “It’s been a two-steps-forward, at least
one-step-back” type of environment for the Omaha, Nebraska-based truck owner and operator, he said, with freight-demand
trends improving in early May after a “softer” April marked by
a “disappointing” loads-to-truck ratio.  Subsiding Sell-Off  Investors are warming to this industry, as a sell-off in
companies’ shares has begun to subside, said Jim Stellakis,
founder and director of research at Greenwich, Connecticut-based
research company Technical Alpha Inc. and also a chartered
market technician. Knight Transportation has risen almost 13
percent since May 1, compared with a 7.9 percent gain in the
Russell 2000 Index.  Earlier this month, the Phoenix-based company ended a 34-month period when it lagged behind the benchmark small-caps
index, indicating that “sentiment toward this stock is starting
to improve,” Stellakis said.  For many investors, there’s a “constructive story” for
trucking now because the “clear and logical” relationship
between port and freight volumes suggests a steady pick-up in
traffic, said  Alan Gayle , a senior strategist at RidgeWorth
Capital Management, which oversees about $48 billion of assets.
“This is consistent with a low-trajectory expansion that
probably will continue for the rest of the year.”  Rising GDP  Gross domestic product rose at a 2.5 percent annualized
rate in the three months ended March 31, following a 0.4 percent
gain in the fourth quarter, according to the Commerce
Department.  Even amid “near-term concerns” -- including automatic
across-the-board federal-government spending cuts known as
sequestration -- Americans have “more capacity to spend,”
Gayle said, as hiring steadies and home values strengthen.  U.S. employers have added an average of 195,750 jobs each
month this year, compared with 180,333 during the last half of
2012, based on figures from the Labor Department. The median
price of an existing house rose 11 percent in April from a year
earlier, the fifth consecutive month that property values
advanced more than 10 percent year-over-year, according to data
from the National Association of Realtors in  Washington .  Housing Recovery  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the largest home-improvement retailer in
the U.S., is benefiting “from a recovering housing market that
drove a stronger-than-expected start to the year,” Chief
Executive Officer Francis Blake said in a May 21 statement. The
Atlanta-based company reported earnings and revenue that day,
beating the consensus estimate of analysts for the three months
ended May 5, and raised its full-year profit forecast.  Other indicators of household consumption -- including real
disposable income and household net worth -- have been
“generally positive” recently, according to the minutes of the
April 30-May 1 meeting of the  Federal Reserve ’s Open Market
Committee released May 22. As a result, some policy makers
observed that “ consumer spending  was reported to be strong in a
number of areas of the country.”  Purchases by American consumers rose 0.2 percent in March,
more than projected, after a 0.7 percent increase the prior
month, which was the strongest gain since September, based on
data from the Commerce Department. April figures are scheduled
to be released May 31.  ‘Cautious Optimism’  The recent gains in truck and port activity are another
sign of “cautious optimism among U.S. retailers,” Gayle said.
The ratio of retail inventories to sales was 1.39 in March,
after reaching a 32-year low of 1.32 in October 2011, based on
figures from the Census Bureau. That compares with a five-year
pre-recession average of 1.52.  While retailers are keeping supplies lean to maximize
profit margins, they are relying on real-time replenishment as
demand picks up, according to  Walter Todd , who oversees about
$950 million as chief investment officer of Greenwood Capital
Associates LLC in Greenwood,  South Carolina . “We were a little
concerned about consumption coming into the year; we haven’t
seen it fall off, though.”  Target Corp. (TGT)  remains “cautiously optimistic about both the
macroeconomic environment and consumer behavior” in the
remainder of the year, Chief Executive Officer  Gregg Steinhafel 
said on a May 22 conference call, although the Minneapolis-based
company’s positive sentiment is tempered by the prospect for
“slow, uneven growth.” Sales and traffic were “softer than
expected” for the three months ended May 4, he added.  American Resilience  Still, Americans have demonstrated resilience, helping to
keep the expansion on track, albeit at a modest pace, Todd said.
Transportation volumes are useful for confirming other
indicators of consumer spending, which accounts for about 70
percent of GDP.  In addition, investors may be wise to monitor imports for
clues about consumption, he said, adding that a pick-up late
last year was followed closely by a rebound in truck activity.  “Growth in the economy isn’t gangbusters, but it’s
grinding higher just like port and trucking volumes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  