-- Power Market Rebound Fades for Exelon on Lower Auction Prices
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-05-29T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/power-market-rebound-fades-for-exelon-on-lower-auction-prices.html
A bellwether power market auction
that helps set long-term electricity prices in 13 U.S. states
shows the natural gas glut may stifle a profit boost generators
had expected from retiring coal plants.  Power producers including  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  and  FirstEnergy
Corp. (FE)  have been counting on tougher environmental rules to
shutter a record number of coal plants by 2015, limiting
electricity supplies enough to raise prices in coming years.
Instead, bidders at the biggest U.S. power market auction last
week saw forward prices for electricity delivered from June 2016
to May 2017 tumble 56 percent from last year’s auction, a
steeper plunge than analysts expected.  “Clearly, it isn’t what people had expected,” said  Paul Patterson , a  New York  City-based utilities analyst with Glenrock
Associates, in a telephone interview yesterday. “For power
generators, it’s not positive. The handwriting’s on the wall.”  Exelon and FirstEnergy, which sell much of their output
into the 13-state region covered by PJM Interconnection LLC were
downgraded by some analysts after the auction. Exelon dropped
7.5 percent to $32.05 at the close in New York, the most since
Dec. 1, 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
FirstEnergy declined 6.5 percent to $39.86, its lowest since May
15, 2009.  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) , another large power producer in the
region, fell 3.7 percent to $26.17 after earlier falling as much
as 5.3 percent, the lowest since Nov. 23, 2011. They’re among
the coal and nuclear-plant operators that have seen profits
shrink since 2008 as a recession reduced electricity consumption
and a flood of gas from the boom in shale drilling sent power
markets into a tailspin.  Value Erased  The drop in power prices has erased $31.1 billion of market
value at Chicago-based Exelon in five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Owner of the largest group of U.S.
nuclear plants, Exelon earlier this year cut its quarterly
dividend for the first time in its 12-year history as price
declines and expiring long-term contracts reduced profit.  Officials at Exelon had been optimistic the market was 
turning back in their favor as gas prices rose from last year’s 
10-year low. Jonathon Thayer, the company’s executive vice 
president and chief financial officer, predicted during Exelon’s 
May 1 earnings call that wholesale prices would rise $2 to $4 
per megawatt hour in the next three years as gas prices increase 
and a record amount of coal generation retires.  Lost Revenue  The latest PJM auction may trim Exelon profits by 15 cents
to 20 cents a share in 2016, Jonathan Arnold and Keith Stanley,
New York-based analysts with Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., said
in a research report yesterday. Exelon would need to see a 2.25-per-megawatt-hour “uplift” to compensate for the lower-than-expected revenue.  “We are stepping to the sidelines as we cannot ignore the
thesis-altering implications of Friday’s PJM capacity auction
results,” wrote Arnold and Stanley, who downgraded Exelon to a
“hold” from their previous “buy” rating.  Paul Adams, an Exelon spokesman, said Exelon remains well-positioned for the future despite the disappointing auction
results.  “Going forward, Exelon has the financial flexibility to
pursue growth opportunities that will provide strong returns -
and we will, both organically and through a wide variety of
transactions,” Adams said in an e-mail.  Capacity Payments  PJM, which runs a  power grid  that serves 60 million people
from  Tennessee  to  Illinois  -- the largest  electricity market  in
the U.S. -- said May 24 that capacity prices for the year
starting June 2016 will decline to $59.37 a megawatt a day from
the $136 benchmark set in last year’s auction. Capacity payments
are made to generators to ensure a sufficient supply of power.  The grid operator, based in  Valley Forge ,  Pennsylvania ,
blamed the price drop on a record 5,463 megawatts of new
generation bid into the auction and imports of cheaper power
from neighboring markets that doubled to 7,483 megawatts from
last year.  The impact of coal’s decline may be muted as power
producers increasingly decide to convert those uneconomic units
to run on gas, Julien Dumoulin-Smith, a New York-based utilities
analyst with UBS Securities LLC, said in a research report
yesterday. With substantially lower operating costs, these units
may be able to generate a profit, or at least break even,
despite lower prices.  Disappointing Results  FirstEnergy, based in Akron,  Ohio , was “disappointed with
the results,” Doug Colafella, a company spokesman said in a
phone interview.  “We’re still unsure what is causing generators to build
new  power plants  under the existing market conditions,” he
added. “We’re starting to see low power prices becoming a
longer-term trend, and you’re seeing some generators out there
building power plants in those market conditions.”  Weak prices and the influx of new gas plants may make it
difficult for FirstEnergy to sell hydro-power plants in the PJM
market and coal plants from its competitive business to its
regulated West Virginia utilities, Arnold said in a report
yesterday. Colafella said he doesn’t know whether the auction
would affect FirstEnergy’s planned asset sales.  “Poor discipline by incumbent generators” has depressed
future power prices, crushed the price for providing power-producing capacity and boosted shipments into the PJM market,
Dan Eggers, a New York-based analyst for  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  wrote
yesterday in an note to clients lowering FirstEnergy shares to
the equivalent of hold from the equivalent of buy.  “We see downside from here in all of the integrated power
names as the long and uncertain path to a power market recovery
forces investors to re-consider the multiples paid for commodity
cyclical power generation assets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  