-- Purisima Pledges to High Philippine Growth as Peso Slides
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-05-29T09:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/purisima-pledges-to-high-philippine-growth-as-peso-slides.html
The  Philippines  will ensure economic
expansion remains elevated as the government targets growth of
as much as 7 percent this year, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima
said today as the peso weakened to a nine-month low. Stocks rose.  “Our focus is on making sure we set the necessary
foundation so that our growth rate can be sustained at higher
levels,” Purisima said in a Bloomberg interview in Singapore.
If constraints to growth are managed “I am confident that we
will be able to grow at higher levels.”  Purisima joined the central bank in seeking to sustain
investor confidence after the benchmark  stock index  fell the
most in 11 months on May 27 and foreign funds sold $85 million
more Philippine equities than they bought in the previous three
days. The country, which had one of Asia’s fastest-growing
economies last year, is due to release a report tomorrow that
analysts predict will show slower expansion last quarter.  The peso fell 1.1 percent to 42.425 per dollar at the close
in  Manila , its lowest level since August 17, according to prices
from Tullett Prebon Plc. The  Philippine Stock Exchange (PCOMP)  Index
gained 1.6 percent, the most in three weeks.  “The peso weakness reflects in part the dollar’s strength
overnight, given good U.S. economic data last night,” Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco said in a mobile-phone text message today. “The movements have so far not been
misaligned,” he said, adding in a later message that the drop
“should not be a cause for concern.”  Asian currencies including the South Korean won and the
Indonesian rupiah fell today, while sovereign bonds across the
region also dropped on concern the Federal Reserve will scale
back its monetary stimulus, reducing the flow of funds to
 emerging markets .  Right Rate  Emerging-market currencies will continue to strengthen in
the long term on growth prospects, and Philippine policy makers
will seek to avoid foreign-exchange volatility, Purisima said.  “So long as the changes in the exchange rate are smooth
and we’re within the band of competitiveness vis-a-vis our peer
currencies, I think whatever market sets it at should be the
right rate,” he said, referring to the peso. “We just are
avoiding volatility and that’s something we’re watching for.”  The Philippine economy probably expanded 6 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, compared with 6.8 percent in
the previous three months, according to the median estimate of
22 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  The government is close to an agreement on rationalizing
investment incentives, Purisima said. Officials are in the
“final stages” of opening up the construction sector to more
foreign companies, he said at an infrastructure conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in  Singapore  at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  