-- Rand Slumps to Four-Year Low as Bond Yields Soar on U.S. Growth
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-05-29T14:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/rand-slumps-to-four-year-low-as-bond-yields-soar-on-u-s-growth.html
The rand slumped to a four-year low
and bond yields rose to the highest levels in eight weeks on
speculation of a tapering in U.S. stimulus measures and as the
South African economy stagnates.  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. rose in May and a report
tomorrow may show the world’s biggest economy expanded 2.5
percent in the first quarter.  South Africa ’s worst economic
performance since the 2009 recession is heightening the risk of
sovereign downgrades amid prospects of prolonged labor unrest.  “One leg of the dollar-rand move is simply the strength of
the dollar,” spurred by “optimism that the U.S. will be in a
self-sustaining recovery by 2014,”  John Cairns , a currency
strategist at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “The moves have been further compounded by
local factors. Local sentiment is still so extremely negative
that the market hardly needs any news to sell off.”  South Africa’s currency depreciated as much as 0.7 percent
to 9.8574 per dollar, the lowest level since March 18, 2009. It
traded 0.2 percent down at 9.8061 by 3:40 p.m. in Johannesburg,
bringing its depreciation this month to 8.6 percent, the worst
performance out of 16 major currencies monitored by Bloomberg.  Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026
rose 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 7.32 percent,
the highest on a closing basis since April 3 and following a 10
basis-point advance yesterday. The yield has climbed 58 basis
points this month.  Steep Losses  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central
bank could cut the pace of asset purchases, which have
contributed to demand for higher-yielding emerging-market bonds,
if officials see indications of sustained improvement in
economic growth. Ten-year U.S. yields rose the highest in four
months as bonds worldwide headed for the steepest monthly loss
in almost a decade.  “Liquidity trades -- including the rand and other high-yielding currencies -- have been further hurt by worries that
U.S. quantitative easing could be halted sooner rather than
later,” Cairns said.  South Africa’s gross domestic product  expanded  0.9 percent
in the first quarter, less than the most pessimistic forecast of
15 economists in a Bloomberg survey, as manufacturing and
agriculture contracted, Statistics South Africa said yesterday.  Slower growth may curb  tax revenue  and make it harder for
the government to rein in its  budget deficit , a concern raised
by Moody’s Investors Service and other rating companies when
downgrading South Africa in the past eight months. Looming
strikes in the  mining industry  as wage talks get under way are
further clouding the outlook.  ‘At Mercy’  “South African yields have weakened as a result of both
the global trend as well as the weaker rand and poor foreign
demand,”  Brigid Taylor , head of institutional flow sales at
 Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  in Johannesburg, said in an e-mail. “We are
at the mercy of social tensions and knock-on negative offshore
sentiment amid U.S. strength.”  Foreign investors  sold  a net 501 million rand ($51 million)
of South African bonds yesterday, bringing net outflows this
month to 635 million rand, according to the JSE Ltd., which runs
the nation’s stock and bond exchanges.  Weakness in emerging-market currencies including the rand
could last for the next two years as expectations of further
quantitative easing by the Fed recede, Manik Narain and Bhanu Baweja, strategists at UBS Ltd. in  London , said in a note e-mailed to clients today.  “Trading patterns suggest that the market is now looking
for quality rather than yield,” they wrote. “The large
emerging-market current-account deficit economies such as South
Africa,  India  and  Turkey  are seeing their currencies being hit
harder than the others.”  South Africa’s current-account gap, which measured 6.5
percent of gross domestic product in the fourth quarter, is the
fourth biggest of about 60 countries tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  