-- RBA Should Keep Rates Low as Mining Peak Saps Growth, OECD Says
-- B y   M a l c o l m   S c o t t
-- 2013-05-29T21:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/rba-should-keep-rates-low-as-mining-peak-saps-growth-oecd-says.html
Australia ’s central bank should keep
 interest rates  low as a high currency and fragile confidence
inhibit growth needed to compensate for a mining slowdown, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said.  Gross domestic product growth will slow to 2.6 percent in
2013, down from 3 percent projected in November, the OECD said
in a report released in Paris yesterday. With the economy
slowing, the government’s “gradual approach” to reducing the
public deficit is welcome, it said.  “The surge in mining investment, which is likely to peak
in 2013, is gradually losing its stimulatory effect on activity,
while new drivers of growth are taking time to emerge,” it
said. “Signs of an upturn in the non-mining sector, which the
easing of monetary conditions aims to stimulate, remain timid
because of the persistently high exchange rate, which is
weighing on companies’ confidence and their investment.”  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his
board slashed borrowing costs by 2 percentage points over the
past 19 months to 2.75 percent, joining global counterparts in
embracing record-low rates to combat currency strength. The
government in December abandoned a pledge to return the budget
to surplus this fiscal year and this month projected a deficit
of A$19.4 billion ($18.7 billion).  Traders are pricing in a 75 percent chance the RBA will
lower its benchmark borrowing cost by at least a quarter
percentage point to 2.5 percent or lower by the end of
September, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Australian
dollar, which has declined 7.1 percent this month, averaged
about $1.0350 in the past two years, versus 75.80 U.S. cents in
the prior 10 years.  New Zealand  In  New Zealand , growth is picking up, bolstered by
rebuilding after quakes that rocked the South Island city of
Christchurch and increasing domestic demand, the OECD said. The
 Reserve Bank of New Zealand , which has kept borrowing costs at a
 record low of 2.5 percent  since March 2011 to help the economy
recover, should tighten policy next year before inflation
pressures “become pronounced,” the OECD said.  “As earthquake rebuilding gains traction, diminishing
excess capacity will begin to generate cost pressures,” the
OECD said. “The Reserve Bank should thus gradually withdraw
monetary stimulus beginning in 2014.”  RBNZ Governor Graeme Wheeler said today the central bank is
prepared to increase currency sales to combat a “significantly
over-valued”  exchange rate , according to e-mailed notes of a
speech in Auckland.  A pronounced slowdown in  China  is a risk to both Australia
and New Zealand, the OECD said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malcolm Scott in Sydney at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  