-- Treasuries Turning Point at 2.4%, Credit Suisse’s Jersey Says
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-05-29T14:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/treasuries-turning-point-at-2-4-credit-suisse-s-jersey-says.html
A continuation of the surge in 10-year Treasury note yields risks breaking  U.S. government debt 
out of the low interest rate environment that has held since
2008, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  If “you get above about 2.4 percent, which was the 2012
yield highs, you’d have to completely reevaluate any kind of
’we’re staying in a low-yield range for a long time’ ” scenario,
Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist in  New York  at Credit
Suisse, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee . “We are not quite there yet,
we are about 25 basis point away from that kind of level that
I’d be thinking we are going to have a trend higher in yields
somewhat similar to what happened, say early-to-mid 2009.”  U.S. government securities suffered yesterday their biggest
one-day decline since October 2011 after a report showed U.S.
 consumer confidence  climbed to a five-year high. Treasury 10-year  yields  climbed to as high as 2.23 percent today, the most
since April 2012. The yield fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.15 percent as of 10:51 a.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.  Securities in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Broad Market Index have fallen 1.3 percent in May, poised for
the steepest loss since April 2004 while Treasuries have dropped
1.9 percent this month, the indexes show.  Unemployment at 7.5 percent, estimates for the narrowest
 budget deficit  since 2008 and a 1.1 percent inflation rate had
kept yields and volatility contained this year. Investors began
this month to fret as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
and some of his colleagues disagree about when to curtail the
central bank’s $85 billion a month of bond purchases.  Policy Reason  “All of a sudden people get more confident that growth is
going to pick up, that policy is going to work,” Jersey said.
“If rates go up another 50 basis points, which we don’t think
they will, then the Federal Reserve certainly has to reevaluate
what it is doing. The whole reason for QE is to keep rates low
and to help spur the housing market, which is still recovering
slowly.”  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  has called for
reducing stimulus at the Fed’s next meeting in June, while
Bernanke and  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York President William C. Dudley have stressed that a premature exit risks hampering
growth and roiling investors.  Given the extent of the yield rise so far “I don’t think
we are at the scary point yet for the Fed,” Jersey said. “But
if yields go too high, the Fed will have to come in there and
say this is going on, we are not going to taper QE, we want
yields to come back down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  