-- U.S. 10-Year Yields Fall From 1-Year High as Level Spurs Demand
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-05-29T21:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/treasuries-fall-as-bonds-worldwide-drop-most-in-almost-a-decade.html
Treasuries rose after 10-year notes
suffered the biggest one-day decline since October 2011, as the
highest yields in 13 months attracted buyers amid speculation
whether the  Federal Reserve  will reduce asset purchases.  Bonds have tumbled around the world this month with the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Index down 1.3
percent in May, poised for the steepest loss since April 2004,
and Treasuries have dropped 1.9 percent this month, the indexes
show. Yields rose yesterday after a report showed U.S.  consumer
confidence  climbed to a five-year high. The U.S. auctioned $35
billion of five-year notes today at a lower-than-forecast yield.  “This is an opportunity to put money to work at levels
that are 60 to 70 basis points higher than they were a month
ago,” said Thomas di Galoma, senior vice president of fixed-income rates trading at ED&F Man Capital Markets in  New York .
“The perception is the economy will remain on the weak side,
and people don’t want to chase the equity market.”  Treasury 10-year  yields  fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.12 percent as of 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The price of the 1.75
percent note due in May 2023 rose 14/32, or $4.38 per $1,000
face amount, to 96 23/32.  The yield had climbed to 2.23 percent, the highest level
since April 5, 2012. Thirty-year bond yields dropped six basis
points to 3.27 percent after rising 15 basis points yesterday.  ‘Ironically’ Lower  Tapering of Fed bond-buying “might start in September and
be done by January,” Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist in
New York at Credit Suisse Group AG, one of 21 primary dealers
that trade directly with the Fed, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television.  Yields on Treasuries “ironically” could be lower in a
year, should the Fed have finished its purchases because the
removal of accommodation means “risk assets wind up falling and
as they fall, you wind up with significantly lower” yields,
Jersey said. Fair value for yields on 10-year notes is 1.9
percent, Jersey said.  Treasury volatility as measured by the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch MOVE index rose to 75.51 yesterday, the most since
Aug. 16, four weeks before the Fed’s Sept. 13 announcement it
would begin buying $40 billion a month in mortgages, the first
part of its third round of quantitative easing. The index has
averaged 57.1 this year.  Options on  interest-rate swaps  show projected price swings
have risen to the highest since August after trading just above
the six-year low reached in April.  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market
Sovereign Plus Index has fallen 1.5 percent this month, the most
since January 2009.  Yield Difference  The difference between 10-year and 30-year yields narrowed
to 1.13 percentage points, the smallest gap since November. The
10-year note is more tied to mortgages, which have been hit hard
during the bond market selloff, said Justin Lederer, an
interest-rate strategist in New York at Cantor Fitzgerald LP, a
primary dealer.  Trading volume  rose  to $515.5 billion yesterday, according
to ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government
debt . It reached $662 billion on May 22, the highest level in
data going back to 2004. The average daily volume for this year
has been $292 billion.  Trading in Treasury futures reached a record yesterday,
according to the CME Group in  Chicago . Ten-year note futures
trading totaled 4.2 million contracts, five-year futures and
options contracts amounted to 3 million and 1.9 million two-year
contracts and options were traded, the CME said in a statement.  The 10-day  relative-strength  index, a gauge of momentum,
for the 10-year note, was 72.7 yesterday from 54.9 on May 3. A
level below 30 or above 70 suggests the yield may change
direction.  Fed Buys  The Fed buys $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage debt a
month to support the economy by putting downward pressure on
 interest rates . The central bank purchased $3.1 billion of
Treasuries maturing from August 2020 to February 2023 today.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central bank
could cut the pace of its purchases if officials see indications
of sustained improvement in economic growth.  The Fed’s bond purchases, a policy of known as quantitative
easing, or QE, may not be the most important influence for
yields. A JPMorgan Chase & Co. report published in February said
its models showed that the end of QE would trigger only about an
eight-basis-point rise in 10-year note yields, while the Fed’s
plan to keep rates at zero into 2015 is keeping them about 40
basis points below where they’d be otherwise.  Swaps Data  Swaps traders have pushed forward their expectations for
the Fed’s first interest-rate increase since adopting
extraordinary monetary stimulus to about December 2014 after
yesterday’s sell-off in Treasuries. That compares with
expectations for May 2015 on May 22, the day Bernanke testified
before Congress.  “Crisis-level interest rates are normal only for so
long,” said  Richard Bryant , a trader at Mizuho Securities USA
Inc. in New York, a primary dealer. “At some point, the pension
funds and the money managers will come back into the market.
Right now they’re being patient and waiting to see how much this
move has left in it.”  Fed Bank of Boston President  Eric Rosengren  said the Fed
should press on with record stimulus to speed economic growth,
reduce 7.5 percent unemployment and boost inflation running
below 2 percent.  “While we have seen some improvement in labor market
conditions, significant accommodation remains appropriate at
this time,” Rosengren said today in remarks prepared for a
speech in  Minneapolis . “ Core inflation  remains at the very low
end of recent experience, and the  unemployment rate  is close to
the cyclical peaks of the past two recessions.”  Price Pattern  The Fed’s preferred measure of inflation, the personal
consumption expenditures deflator, fell in April for a second
month by 0.2 percent, according to the median forecast of 32
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The  Bureau of Economic
Analysis  will report the data May 31.  At today’s auction, the bid-to-cover ratio was 2.79,
compared with an average of 2.84 for the previous 10 sales. The
yield was 1.045 percent, compared with a forecast of 1.051
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of seven of the Fed’s primary
dealers.  Primary dealers bought 32.6 percent of the notes, the least
since at least 2003. Indirect bidders, an investor class that
includes foreign central banks, purchased 44 percent of the
notes, compared with an average of 41.55 percent for the past 10
sales.  Direct bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 23.3 percent of
the notes, compared with an average of 15.06 percent at the last
10 auctions.  Auction Review  “Indirects and directs stepped up,” said  William O’Donnell , head U.S. government bond strategist at  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , a primary dealer. After “a weak two-year auction
yesterday, it looks like we may have gone back far enough to
attract some money into the market.”  The U.S. sold $35 billion of two-year notes yesterday at a
yield of 0.281 percent and will auction $29 billion of seven-year securities tomorrow. The auctions, including Treasury
Inflation-Protected Securities offered last week, will raise
$53.5 billion of new cash, as maturing securities held by the
public total $58.5 billion, according to the  U.S. Treasury .  Investors have bid $2.99 for each dollar of the $876
billion in Treasury notes and bonds sold at auction so far this
year compared with a record bid-to-cover ratio of $3.15 set in
2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  