-- Three New Cases of Chemical Weapons in Syria, U.K. Says
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-05-29T16:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/three-new-cases-of-chemical-weapons-in-syria-u-k-says-1-.html
The U.K. has given the United Nations
information about three additional cases alleging the use of
chemical weapons in  Syria  and has attributed the attacks to
President Bashar al-Assad’s government.  “The U.K. is extremely concerned about the ongoing
allegations of chemical-weapons use in Syria,” the Foreign
Office in  London  said in an e-mailed statement today. The
“allegations relate to incidents which reportedly took place in
March and April this year.”  The evidence gathered was submitted to a team of scientists
that hasn’t been given clearance by Assad to enter Syria and
investigate alleged use of its chemical arsenal. The office of
UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said it has received the U.K.
letter and is studying the information.  The latest allegations bring the number of cases reported
by governments to at least six, putting pressure on the U.S. and
its European allies to take action in response.  President  Barack Obama  has said Syrian government use of
chemical weapons would cross a “red line,” though the U.S.
lacks conclusive evidence that it has happened. Obama hasn’t
said what the U.S. will do if chemical weapons use is confirmed.  “I preserve the options of taking additional steps” on
Syria, both “diplomatic and military,” Obama said at a news
conference May 16.  Any use of chemical weapons by Syria’s regime “wouldn’t be
without reply” and the reaction would be “severe,” French
Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said in an interview today with
France Inter radio. Pressed on what “severe” meant, Fabius
said “it’s the final stage before a strike.”  Chemical Weapons  Earlier this week,  France ’s LeMonde newspaper reported that
the Assad regime has used chemical weapons on several occasions
in and around the capital, Damascus, based on interviews with
doctors and witnesses. In addition, the newspaper said one of
its photographers had suffered blurred vision and respiratory
difficulties after an attack April 13 in Damascus.  Tests on samples brought from Syria by French journalists
will take about three weeks to analyze, French Foreign Ministry
spokesman Philippe Lalliot said May 28.  A month ago, the Obama administration told Congress that
U.S. intelligence agencies had assessed “with varying degrees
of confidence” that Syria has used small amounts of chemical
weapons in the conflict against rebel forces seeking to topple
Assad. Obama said he needed more than an intelligence assessment
to make a determination to take action.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  New York  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  