-- Reliance Rating Raised by S&P on $30 Billion Spending
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-05-29T11:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/reliance-rating-raised-by-s-p-on-30-billion-capacity-spending.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , operator of
the world’s biggest oil refining complex, had its  credit rating 
upgraded by  Standard & Poor’s , which said the company’s $30
billion spending on new capacities will boost earnings.  The  rating  for Mumbai-based Reliance was raised one level
to BBB+, the third-lowest investment grade, from BBB, held since
November 2005, Standard & Poor’s said today in a statement. The
outlook for the rating is negative, reflecting India’s, it said.
S&P rates India BBB-, the lowest investment grade.  “Reliance’s decision to invest more than $30 billion in
its existing core businesses over the next three years provides
clarity regarding the company’s use of its significant cash
balances,” S&P said in the e-mailed statement. “We upgraded
Reliance because we believe the company’s strategy to grow
organically will strengthen its competitive position and support
its profitability.”  Reliance’s billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani  expects to
double the company’s operating profit in the next five years by
increasing petrochemical-producing capacity, raising natural gas
output at its biggest field and improving refining earnings. The
rating upgrade may help reduce borrowing costs at Reliance,
which  raised  an unprecedented $5.8 billion overseas last year.  The  shares  rose 0.5 percent to 847.90 rupees at the end of
trading in  Mumbai , beating the benchmark index’s 0.1 percent
drop. The S&P upgrade came after the market closed.  Profit Growth  Reliance reported its highest profit growth in almost three
years after earnings from turning crude into fuels increased in
the quarter ended March 31. Reliance had cash and equivalents of
829.8 billion rupees ($14.8 billion), deposited in  bank deposits ,
mutual funds and  government securities  as of March 31, the
company said. That surpassed its 724.3 billion rupees of debt
outstanding.  Reliance will spend 75 percent of its $30 billion
expenditure in the next three years on its primary businesses of
refining, petrochemical, and oil and gas exploration and
production, S&P said.  The company will invest $11 billion for energy exploration,
$8 billion to expand petrochemical output and a combined $8
billion in its refining, retail and communications businesses,
Deutsche Bank AG said in a report in March. The firm will spend
about 1 trillion rupees in five years, Ambani told shareholders
in June.  Reliance runs two refineries at Jamnagar in the western
state of Gujarat that can together process 1.24 million barrels
of crude every day. The plants are capable of turning heavier
grades of oil, which are typically cheaper, into high-value
fuels.  It also owns 60 percent in India’s biggest gas field,
called KG-D6, off the nation’s east coast. Production from the
field, which started in April 2009, has declined for the last
three years. The company and its partners  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Niko
Resources Ltd. (NKO)  announced a “significant” gas discovery in the
block on May 24 after drilling the first exploration well in the
area in more than four years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  