-- Reyl Inflows Put $10 Billion Target Within Reach for Swiss Bank
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-05-29T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/reyl-inflows-put-10-billion-target-within-reach-for-swiss-bank.html
Reyl Group said client inflows in the
first four months of the year put the Geneva-based private bank
and asset manager on course to reach its goal of 10 billion
Swiss francs ($10.4 billion) of managed assets by 2015.  Reyl attracted net new money of 2.3 billion francs last
year as assets under management increased more than 60 percent
to 7.3 billion francs, Chief Executive Officer Francois Reyl
said in an interview at the firm’s offices on Rue du Rhone,
Geneva’s priciest shopping street. About 500 million francs of
inflows were at its institutional asset management unit.  Reyl was one of the banks used by former French budget
minister Jerome Cahuzac, who resigned in March and later
admitted he stashed 600,000 euros ($777,000) of undeclared funds
outside  France , Tages-Anzeiger reported April 6. Reyl, who can’t
disclose client names in line with Swiss banking secrecy laws,
said the bank’s customer base has remained “supportive.”  “Recent events have not impacted our ability to continue
to grow our business,” he said. “The net new money in wealth
management onshore activities has continued to be strong.”  Cahuzac denied for months a Dec. 4 Mediapart report he hid
funds offshore, including with UBS AG in Geneva. Cahuzac, a
former plastic surgeon and Socialist lawmaker, was identified in
a recorded telephone conversation referring to the existence of
a Swiss account, the Paris prosecutor’s office said on March 19,
the day of his resignation. He has since repatriated the money
held outside France to pay his debts to the French authorities.  Growing Businesses  Reyl and UBS provided French judges with evidence about a
Swiss account held by Cahuzac from 1992 through an
administrative assistance request in March, according to a
statement from Geneva’s public prosecutor.  Onshore businesses in Geneva and Paris helped boost the
bank’s assets, said Reyl, adding that the company also attracted
clients by opening a Zurich-based unit for tax-declared
Americans and an office in Lugano,  Switzerland . Reyl also has a
London office to market funds and advisory services to wealthy
non-domiciled U.K. residents from the  Middle East ,  Russia  and
central  Asia .  Reyl is trying to attract clients in “less crowded”
markets outside of  Europe  and is considering opening an office
in the Middle East, the CEO said.  Assets managed for institutions rose to 3.3 billion francs
from 2.2 billion francs in the first quarter of 2013, according
to the bank. Profit climbed 70 percent to 8.8 million francs
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  