-- Rio-Sao Paulo Toll Gives CCR Inflation Hedge: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-05-29T13:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/rio-sao-paulo-toll-gives-ccr-inflation-hedge-corporate-brazil.html
Brazil ’s struggle to rein in
inflation is making a toll-road operator whose revenue is tied
to price increases the top stock pick of the region’s industry
analysts.  CCR SA (CCRO3) , which manages highways including the main route
connecting  Sao Paulo  and  Rio de Janeiro , has the highest  analyst
rating  among Latin American infrastructure companies, even after
posting a 30 percent rally in the past year. The company has a
consensus rating of 4.24, beating its eight peers covered by at
least four analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The stock’s 59 percent gain over the past two years is ninth-best on the benchmark Ibovespa index, which fell 14 percent.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini has been unable to
bring inflation down to the country’s 4.5 percent target since
he took office in 2011, crimping consumers’ purchasing power and
adding to an economic slump that shrank the  growth rate  to 0.9
percent last year, the lowest among major Latin American
nations. For CCR, the 6.49 percent annual inflation rate is a
boon, prompting analysts to forecast 15 percent revenue growth
this year, double the average 7.3 percent increase estimated for
the industry across the region.  “With companies like CCR, you have a steady revenue that’s
protected from inflation,” said Henrique Kleine, head analyst
at Sao Paulo-based Magliano SA, who rates the stock a buy.
“Given all the concern right now about how successful the
central bank will be in getting inflation under control, it’s a
good way of hedging yourself without leaving the equity
market.”  Upper Limit  The 6.49 percent inflation rate is at the upper end of the
government’s 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent target range.  The central bank raised the benchmark lending rate for the
first time in 21 months on April 17, lifting it a quarter-point
from a record low to 7.5 percent, in a bid to bring inflation to
the 4.5 percent target midpoint. Policy makers will boost the
rate another quarter-point at the end of their two-day meeting
today, according to the median  forecast  of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Economists predict inflation will end the year at 5.8
percent, according to a central bank survey released May 27.  Inflation in  Latin America ’s biggest country is higher than
that of regional peers with similar investment-grade ratings.
Consumer prices rose 4.65 percent in the past 12 months in
 Mexico , 2.02 percent in  Colombia , 2.3 percent in  Peru  and 1
percent in  Chile , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ferry, Subway  In the fourth quarter, 97 percent of CCR’s revenue was
linked to Brazilian consumer price increases, as measured by the
benchmark IPCA index, according to the company’s 2012 financial
statement. Some of its contracts, including the one with the
federal government to manage the Via Dutra highway between Sao
Paulo and Rio de Janeiro that expires in 2021, allow for
periodic toll increases based on changes in the index.  Tolls accounted for 85 percent of first-quarter revenue.
The company also operates a ferry service in Rio de Janeiro
state, is part of the group that built Sao Paulo’s newest subway
line and owns stakes in airports in  Costa Rica  and Curacao.  “In times of inflationary pressure, having contracts that
set automatic price increases periodically is an important
advantage,” Felipe Silveira, an analyst at brokerage
Coinvalores, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “The company is also
diversifying its business to other areas including airports and
public transportation, so it doesn’t depend only on its toll-road unit, which is positive.”  CCR trades at 23.4 times its estimated 2013 earnings,
almost double the Ibovespa’s average ratio of 12.8 times,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. None of the 21 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg recommends selling the stock.  Highway Improvements  The company needs to make improvements to its highways,
including adding lanes to allow for more traffic, to increase
revenue as the economy expands, said Welliam Wang, who helps
manage 2.1 billion reais at Quest Investmentos.  “Investing more in its current assets allows CCR to demand
contract amendments for additional rate hikes or extend due
dates,” Wang said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.  CCR’s contracts give it a “competitive advantage” over
companies in other  industries  that don’t get inflation-based
adjustments, said Marcos Macedo, the toll-road operator’s
manager for  investor relations .  Intervention Risk  “In a scenario of faster inflation, you may not be able to
reach your goals if your revenue doesn’t keep up with costs,”
Macedo said by phone from Sao Paulo. “In the longer term,
however, inflation is not a good thing. For our customers, high
inflation means price increases, and higher prices may end up
pushing sales volumes down.”  Some companies that have concessions from the government
have slumped as President  Dilma Rousseff  intervened in
industries including energy and utilities in a bid to curb
inflation and spur growth. The risk of intervention in the
infrastructure industry is lower because the government is
seeking to encourage investment before hosting the 2014  World
Cup  and 2016  Olympic Games , said Coinvalores’s Silveira.  Brazil will offer a return rate of 7.2 percent for
investments made under new licenses to operate highways that the
government plans to sell, up from 5.5 percent offered in the
latest round of auctions, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said
May 8.  “Regulatory risks in this sector will always exist, but
we’ve seen government officials signaling a more positive
attitude toward companies,” Silveira said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  