-- Ponzi Schemer’s Law Firm Disclosure Statement Approved
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2013-05-29T20:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/rothstein-law-firm-bankruptcy-disclosure-statement-approved-1-.html
The law firm of disbarred  Florida 
attorney Scott Rothstein, who ran a $1.2 billion  Ponzi scheme 
that was the state’s largest ever, moved closer to dissolution
after a judge said creditors can vote on a repayment plan.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Raymond B. Ray, who is overseeing the
liquidation of Rothstein’s law firm in  Fort Lauderdale , approved
the company’s bankruptcy disclosure statement today and set a
confirmation hearing for July.  Rothstein, co-founder of the now-defunct Fort Lauderdale-based firm Rothstein, Rosenfeldt & Adler, is serving a 50-year
sentence for conspiracy to commit fraud. Rothstein sold
investors stakes in sex- and employment-discrimination cases
that turned out to be non-existent.  Several groups of investors opposed the plan by current
trustee Herbert Stettin, which included a settlement with
Toronto-Dominion Bank. The plan would bar investors from suing
TD Bank and halt some pending state-court lawsuits against the
bank.  Stettin’s plan included a provision for TD Bank,  Canada ’s
second-largest lender, to pay as much as $72 million to remove
the threat of litigation over claims it aided Rothstein’s fraud.  TD Bank, based in Toronto, previously reached settlements
requiring it to pay $263.7 million to investors, and lost a $67
million verdict in the only case to go to trial.  Trial Fear  “My clients will be cheated out of their claims,” said
Harley Tropin, attorney for a group of creditors that oppose the
trustee’s plan. “TD Bank is paying them because of people like
Bill Scherer, Harley Tropin and  David Mandel , and their fear of
facing us in a  jury trial .”  Bill Scherer represents 80 investors claiming $228 million
in losses. Tropin claimed one group of clients that he
represents could lose as much as $360 million and potential
claims against TD Bank, including punitive damages and interest.
David Mandel represented creditors that won punitive damages in
a trial against TD Bank.  The creditors committee, which opposed the previous plan,
supported the amended plan today, as did several other creditors
who had opposed it earlier.  “We just don’t understand why creditors are objecting to a
plan that gives them 100 percent in a Ponzi scheme,” said
 Michael Goldberg , the attorney for the creditors committee,
referring to creditors’ recovery.  Criminal Probe  Chuck Throckmorton, another attorney for creditors opposed
to the plan, said that TD Bank should disclose whether it is the
subject of a criminal investigation as part of the plan. “The
creditors have a right to know that,” he said.  In August a federal judge in Miami sanctioned TD Bank for
“willfully” concealing evidence relevant to a trial over whether
it aided Rothstein’s scheme. U.S. District Judge Marcia Cooke
also sanctioned Greenberg Traurig LLP, a  law firm  for the bank,
for “negligently” failing to turn over documents to Coquina
Investments, which won a $67 million verdict against the bank on
Jan. 18.  Rothstein’s Ponzi scheme was run from his Fort Lauderdale
law firm and involved wealthy investors buying stakes in what he
said were payouts in confidential sexual-harassment and
workplace-bias cases.  The cases were fabricated. Rothstein used forged court
documents and phony bank records to sell the scheme to
investors, including  hedge funds  and South Florida businessmen.
At least 10 people, including Rothstein’s wife, were convicted
of crimes.  Scheme Implosion  Rothstein’s scheme imploded in the fall of 2009. After
briefly fleeing to Morocco, he returned to South Florida and
surrendered to authorities. He pleaded guilty to five counts of
 money laundering , fraud and racketeering in 2010.  His wife, Kimberly Rothstein, is set to be sentenced in
July after pleading guilty in February to conspiring to hide
jewelry, including a 12-carat diamond, that her husband had
given her. After her husband’s plea, she was required to turn
over millions of dollars in valuables to federal authorities.  A former attorney in Rothstein’s firm pleaded guilty to
helping the firm illegally become the largest contributor to the
presidential campaign of Republican  John McCain  in 2008.  Steven N. Lippman 49, admitted that he conspired to help
Rothstein, Rosenfeldt & Adler illegally “bundle” contributions
to McCain’s losing campaign against President  Barack Obama .
McCain, a Republican senator from  Arizona , gave the money to
charity after Rothstein’s crimes came to light.  The bankruptcy case is In re Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler,
09-bk-34791,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of Florida
(Fort Lauderdale). The criminal case is U.S. v. Rothstein, 12-cr-60204, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Fort Lauderdale, Florida,
at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;  John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  