-- Royalty CEO Says Investors Signaled Support for Elan Bid
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2013-05-30T17:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/royalty-ceo-says-investors-signaled-support-for-elan-bid.html
Fidelity Investments  is among money
managers that have cut their stakes in  Elan Corp. (ELN)  shares in
recent weeks in a sign the firms are content with Royalty
Pharma’s $6.4 billion hostile takeover offer for Elan, according
to Royalty Pharma’s chief executive officer.  Fidelity Investments  sold about a third of its holding
while Wellington Management Co. also trimmed its investment,
Royalty Pharma Chief Executive Officer Pablo Legorreta said in a
May 28 interview in  London . Legorreta is meeting with investors
this week including  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  and Franklin Templeton to urge
them to back New York-based Royalty Pharma’s bid.  The share sales show some investors don’t see Dublin-based
Elan’s recent transactions as adding value, Royalty Pharma
executives said. The firm raised its bid to $12.50 per American
depositary receipt on May 20 from $11 in February, and the ADRs
rose 0.12 percent to $12.43 at 1:12 p.m. in  New York . The
takeover challenges Elan’s strategy of embarking on a series of
proposed acquisitions announced this month.  “Investors welcomed our offer,” said Legorreta, a former
 Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  banker who founded Royalty Pharma in 1996. “They
were asking for more money. We were at $11 at the time. Our
sense at the time was that a number like $12 to $13 would do it
and we felt that that sort of value range worked for us.”  Differing Views  Elan investors have expressed differing views on the value
of a proposed $1 billion investment in Theravance Inc.’s
royalties, Elan Chairman Robert Ingram said at a media briefing
today following the company’s annual meeting in Dublin.  “We take nothing for granted,” Ingram said when asked
whether there’s concern a June 17 shareholder vote on the deal
will be unfavorable. “To the degree that there is that
uncertainty, we will work very diligently with those
shareholders to try and answer those questions.”  Fidelity, the second-largest U.S. mutual fund company,
holds about 39.5 million Elan shares, according to a regulatory
filing yesterday. That’s down from about 61 million shares on
Feb. 25, the day Royalty first made public its interest in
buying Elan.  The firm sold at an average price of $11.50 per ADR, George
Lloyd, executive vice president for investments at Royalty, said
in an interview.  Vincent Loporchio , a spokesman for Boston-based
Fidelity, declined to comment.  Pared Holdings  Wellington, the Boston-based manager of the $27.6 billion
 Vanguard Health Care Fund (VGHCX) , pared its holding to 38.9 million
shares from 46.9 million on Feb. 27, filings show.  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest asset manager, sold 2.2 million shares
between April 24 and May 28 and now holds 16.4 million shares,
according to regulatory filings.  They join Johnson & Johnson, which sold 82 million shares,
or 76 percent of its stake, on April 18 at $11.25. The company
still owns 25 million shares, equivalent to a 5 percent
ownership position, said Ernie Knewitz, a spokesman for  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J.  As institutions sell down their stakes, merger-arbitrage
traders have bought in, now possibly making up as much as 20
percent of positions, Lloyd said. Arbitragers buy shares of
takeover targets when a deal is announced in hopes of selling at
a profit as the deal closes.  Elan this month announced a $1 billion investment in
royalties on  Theravance Inc. (THRX)  drugs, a $340 million takeover of
Vienna-based AOP Orphan Pharmaceuticals AG and the purchase of a
48 percent stake in Dubai-based NewBridge Pharmaceuticals for
$40 million. The company also plans to issue $800 million in
debt.  Shareholder Vote  Shareholders will vote on the proposed transactions at a
special meeting June 17. Royalty Pharma’s takeover offer is
contingent on Elan investors voting against the Theravance deal,
Lloyd said.  “If they vote in favor of that transaction, and that
transaction closes, then we’re gone,” Lloyd said in an
interview. “There’s hundreds of millions of dollars of value
destruction in that deal.”  Elan received $3.25 billion from  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  for
divesting its stake in the multiple sclerosis drug Tysabri. Elan
will continue to receive royalties for as long as the medicine
is sold. Royalty Pharma invests in royalty streams from
pharmaceuticals.  Elan’s board “has determined that the Royalty Pharma
revised offer substantially undervalues the company,” Chairman
Robert Ingram said in circular to shareholders on May 26. “We
take our fiduciary responsibilities to shareholders very
seriously, and urge you to reject the Royalty Pharma offer.”  The Tysabri royalties plus Elan’s cash are worth as much as
$20.80 a share, Elan said in a statement late yesterday.  Spokespeople for Wellington, BlackRock, Invesco and
 Franklin Templeton  declined to comment.  Royalty and Elan haven’t negotiated, said Lloyd.  “They’ve never returned our calls,” he said. “We’ve
called and sent emails. They’ve never returned our calls, even
at $12.50 a share.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  