-- Rwanda’s Tourism Earnings Rise on Growing East African Travel
-- B y   S a u l   B u t e r a
-- 2013-05-29T12:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/rwanda-s-tourism-earnings-rise-on-growing-east-african-travel.html
Rwanda ’s earnings from tourism rose
in the first quarter as an increase in the number of visitors
from the region offset fewer overseas arrivals, according to the
state-run development board.  The country earned $71.5 million between January and March
from $70.5 million over the same period last year, Rica
Rwigamba, the Rwanda Development Board’s head of tourism and
conservation, said in an interview in Kigali, the capital.  “This is a small increase, which was much affected by what
was happening in the region, especially Kenyan elections,” she
said on May 27. Kenya’s national elections on March 4 passed
peacefully. Violence over the disputed outcome of the previous
presidential vote in 2007 left more than 1,100 people dead.  A decline in number of tourists arriving from crisis-hit
 Europe  in the first quarter was counterbalanced by an increase
in travelers from within the region, Rwigamba said.  Rwanda is targeting income from tourism to grow to $440
million in 2014 from a projected $317 million this year and $282
million last year, she said.  “To attain the target, infrastructure has to be put in
place to accommodate the tourists and it has to be well spread
across the country, not concentrating in Kigali only,” she
said.  The government is supporting growth in the industry by
setting-up representative offices in traditional markets
including the U.K., U.S. and  Germany , increasing marketing in
emerging nations such as  China  and  Russia  and opening a new
convention center in 2014, she said. The development board is
also trying to lure visitors by working with other East African
governments to advertise the region as a vacation destination.  The country, with a population of almost 11 million, is
known as a place to track  mountain gorillas  and for bird-watching. The coffee-growing nation is recovering from a
genocide in 1994 that killed 800,000 people.  Economic growth is expected to  slow  to 7.2 percent next
year from 7.6 percent this year, according to the International
Monetary Fund’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saul Butera in Nairobi at 
 sbutera2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  