-- Ryanair Seeks to Block U.K. Probe of 30% Air Lingus Stake
-- B y   A n t h o n y   A a r o n s
-- 2013-05-29T12:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/ryanair-seeks-to-block-u-k-probe-of-30-air-lingus-stake.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  may be asked by
a U.K. regulator to sell part of its 29.8 percent stake in  Aer
Lingus Group Plc (AERL)  over concerns the holding may lead to higher
prices on routes between the U.K. and Ireland.  The U.K. Competition Commission will publish its
provisional report on the stake, worth about 280 million euros
($363 million) based on Aer Lingus’s market value, tomorrow
morning before stock market trading opens, the antitrust agency
said in an e-mailed statement.  Ryanair, Europe’s largest discount airline, will probably
be required to sell the holding to a level below the 25 percent
threshold the regulator determines gives a company a “material
influence,” said Stephen Smith, a lawyer at Reynolds Porter
Chamberlain LLP in London.  “You would expect the Competition Commission to draw down
the stake to the amounts courts said were proper” in a similar
case involving  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ’s 17.9 percent
holding in  ITV Plc (ITV) , Smith, who head’s RPC’s antitrust practice,
said in an interview. “It is always considered material
influence above 25 percent.”  Ryanair has been fighting with regulators since acquiring
the Aer Lingus shares in 2006 as part of an earlier takeover bid
that the EU blocked on competition grounds. The two airlines,
both based in Dublin, carry more than 80 percent of the 370,000
passengers that travel between the U.K. and Ireland each month,
regulators have said.  Declan Kearney, a spokesman for Aer Lingus in Dublin,
declined to comment, as did Ryanair spokesman Robin Kiely.  Provisional Report  Tomorrow’s report is provisional and Ryanair will be given
time to respond before a final decision is released in July.
Ryanair will also be able to appeal to the U.K. Competition
Appeal Tribunal. The regulators typically give companies as long
as a year to sell down the stake.  Ryanair might be able to delay the enforcement of any U.K.
ruling for years while it challenges the European Union decision
to block its most recent bid to takeover Aer Lingus in February.
The EU said a merger would increase fares and reduce choice on
flights from Ireland.  “It’s never happened before that you had a national review
of a merger that hasn’t happened because of an EU action,”
Smith said.  The Competition Commission will look at several factors
when determining how much Aer Lingus stock Ryanair must sell.
While there is a presumption a 25 percent stake creates
“material influence,” the regulator must also find there is an
anticompetitive effect, said Timothy McIver, a lawyer at
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP in  London .  “The concern is you can block resolutions at shareholder
meetings,” McIver said. “That’s why you can’t say 15 percent
is fine. You have to look at shareholder meetings and calculate
what level of holding wouldn’t allow Ryanair to influence the
commercial behavior of the company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  