-- S&P Raises Saudi Arabia Outlook to Positive
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-05-29T11:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/s-p-raises-saudi-arabia-outlook-to-positive.html
Saudi Arabia’s credit rating outlook
was raised to “positive” from “stable” by  Standard & Poor’s 
because of an improved outlook for growth in the Arab world’s
biggest economy.  Saudi Arabia’s AA- rating, the fourth-highest investment
grade, may be raised in the next 24 months if economic growth
“remains strong,” the rating company said in a statement. It
was the first change in the country’s outlook by S&P since 2007.  “Growth fundamentals are strengthening in Saudi Arabia,”
the rating company said in a statement. “The economy has
expanded strongly and steadily.”  The move is the second by an international ratings company
in less than three months, after  Fitch Ratings  revised the
kingdom’s outlook to positive on March 20. The Saudi economy was
the third-best performer among G-20 nations behind China and
India between 2008 and 2012, according to the  International
Monetary Fund . Finance Minister Ibrahim al-Assaf yesterday said
growth will exceed the IMF’s 4.4 percent forecast for 2013.  Record Sales  A government spending program of more than $500 billion has
sparked record sales of Islamic bonds. The yield on $1.25
billion of sukuk issued by state-owned utility  Saudi Electricity
Co. (SECO)  due in 2022 has tumbled 64 basis points over the past year
to 3.44 percent today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Across the board we have seen a drop in borrowing costs,
linked to the strong macroeconomic fundamentals and liquidity,
particularly in the sukuk market,” said  Monica Malik , Dubai-based chief economist at investment bank EFG-Hermes. “We do not
expect to see any major move as a result. Nevertheless, the
upgrade is a positive confirmation of the improved
fundamentals.”  While economic growth may slow this year due to lower oil
output, the investment bank expects “non-oil GDP growth to
remain robust at 6.1 percent,” helped by  consumer spending  and
public investments, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  