-- Sallie Mae to Split Into Two Companies as Remondi Named CEO
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-05-29T21:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/sallie-mae-to-split-into-two-companies-as-jack-remondi-named-ceo.html
SLM Corp. (SLM) , the student lender known
as Sallie Mae, is seeking to separate its education loan
management and consumer bank businesses into two publicly traded
entities. Its bonds fell the most in at least four months.  The company’s board of directors appointed Jack Remondi
chief executive officer to replace Albert Lord, who will retire
from the board and executive management,  Newark , Delaware-based
Sallie Mae said today in a regulatory filing. The lender
announced Lord’s departure in November.  Moody’s Investors Service put the lender’s long-term grade
on review for a possible rating reduction, citing lost access to
earnings, cash flow and the strategic uncertainty of the
separation, according to a statement today.  “The market might be worried that what they are splitting
off is no longer available to service the bonds,” Brian Charles, an analyst at RW Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income
broker and dealer, said in a telephone interview. “What they
are splitting off is the higher-risk profile business; what is
staying behind is the steady cashflow business.”  Shares rose 2.2 percent to $23.48 as of 4:30 p.m. in New
York. Sallie Mae’s $1 billion of 5.5 percent notes due January
2023 fell 2.875 cents to 96.25 cents on the dollar to yield 6.02
percent, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. That’s the biggest
drop since those bonds were issued in January.  ‘Business Evolution’  Legislation passed in 2010 cut companies out of the
government-guaranteed student loan market, forcing the lender to
remake its business to focus on private debt. Sallie Mae made
$1.4 billion in education loans in the first quarter, a 22
percent increase from the year-ago period, the company said in
an April 17 statement.  The split will “create a better structure for the
increasingly different regulatory environment that each of these
businesses will operate under in the future,” Remondi said
today on a conference call with investors. “These entities can
see better success as two distinct and separate entities rather
than as one.”  Both companies will initially be owned by existing
 shareholders , according to the filing. Assets under the
education loan management business will consist of about $118.1
billion in debt under the government’s FFELP program, $31.6
billion in private education loans and $7.9 billion of other
assets.  Delinquency Rates  The consumer banking business, to be called Sallie Mae
Bank, is projected to have about $9.9 billion of total assets,
including private education loans and related origination and
servicing platforms, according to the filing.  Soaring student-loan delinquency rates in 2012 were highest
among borrowers under the age of 30 who are repaying their debt,
according to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Thirty-five
percent were 90 or more days behind, compared with 21 percent in
2004.  Delinquencies in Sallie Mae’s portfolio are “starting to
feel a lot better” since the lender stopped making loans for
non-traditional schools such as for-profit institutions, Lord
said in an April 18 conference call with investors.  Sallie Mae expects the separation to be completed within 12
months, following approval from its board of directors and
reviews from the Internal Revenue Service and the Securities and
Exchange Commission, according to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  