-- HSBC Settles Thema Fund’s Suit Over Madoff-Linked Losses
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-05-29T15:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/hsbc-settles-thema-fund-s-irish-suit-over-madoff-linked-losses.html
Thema International Fund Plc and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  settled a lawsuit over the London-based bank’s
liability for the fund’s losses of about $1.1 billion through
Bernard Madoff’s  Ponzi scheme .  HSBC and Thema said the deal, for an undisclosed amount,
doesn’t include an “admission of liability on the part of any
party.” The settlement needs to be approved by Thema
shareholders, who are expected to meet in July for that purpose,
the parties said in a joint statement today.  “Thema believes that it has a strong case but the
settlement provides certainty and an early recovery, avoiding
further years of expensive litigation,” according to the
statement. HSBC said “it has good defenses but recognizes the
risks and uncertainties inherent in defending a complex UCITS
claim of this nature together with the significant burden and
expense involved in doing so.”  Thema was seeking to recoup its losses from HSBC at a trial
at the  High Court  in Dublin that started on April 30 and was
scheduled to last 14 weeks. The case is one of dozens to focus
on banks’ role as “custodians” to investment funds that
deposited money with Madoff. HSBC,  Europe ’s biggest bank, faces
more than 50 complaints in Ireland over claims it failed to
discover Madoff’s activities.  UCITS Funds  The fraud hurt several European Union-regulated funds, or
UCITS, like Dublin-based Thema. At least three UCITS, which
stands for Undertakings for Collective Investment in
Transferable Securities, were liquidated because of Madoff-related losses.  “This suit is the investors’ only hope of recovery,”
Dermot Gleeson, a lawyer for Thema, told the Dublin court’s
 Judge Peter Charleton  during opening arguments on April 30. HSBC
was the expert and put itself forward to be custodian, said
Gleeson. “It’s a deliver it or pay-up task.”  The total amount at stake was about $1.5 billion, including
interest, Gleeson said at trial.  Madoff, 75, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history. He is
serving a 150-year sentence in U.S. federal prison.  HSBC settled a related case last year, a day after the
trial started in Dublin. Kalix Fund Ltd., which had invested
money with Thema, was seeking $35.6 million before reaching the
confidential settlement.  Hundreds of suits were also filed in Luxembourg against  UBS
AG (UBSN)  over its custodian duties to Access International Advisors
LLC’s LuxAlpha Sicav-American Selection, another UCITS fund,
which failed after Madoff’s activities were discovered.  LuxAlpha had invested 95 percent of its money with Madoff
and had $1.4 billion in net assets a month before the former
Nasdaq Stock Market chairman’s December 2008 arrest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  