-- Seadrill Gains as Oil Rig Use Boosts Payout Outlook: Oslo Mover
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2013-05-29T09:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/seadrill-gains-as-oil-rig-use-boosts-payout-outlook-oslo-mover.html
Seadrill Ltd. (SDRL) , the offshore drilling
company controlled by billionaire  John Fredriksen , climbed to a
nine-month high in Oslo as strong demand from oil and gas
producers boosts the outlook for earnings and dividend growth.  Shares in Hamilton, Bermuda-based Seadrill, gained as much
 1.6 percent  to 245 kroner, the highest intraday level since Aug.
21, and traded 1.2 percent higher as of 11:01 a.m. That makes it
the  only gainer  today in the Bloomberg EMEA Oil & Gas Index.  Seadrill, which is expanding its fleet in anticipation of
rising demand from the  energy industry , yesterday reported
first-quarter earnings ahead of consensus and a dividend that
beat estimates amid stronger rates and better-than-expected
uptime for its floating units.  “We expect continued earnings per share and dividend
growth in combination with new contract announcements leading to
further solid share-price development,” Pareto Securities ASA
said in an e-mailed note today. The broker has a  buy rating  on
the stock with a 275 kroner price target.  Seadrill, which has 19 rigs under construction and a
contract backlog of $19.1 billion, reported earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of $652 million, up
from $574 million a year earlier and beating the $609 million
average of  19 analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The
driller also announced a dividend of $0.88 per share, ahead of
the $0.86 that was expected, according to  Bloomberg dividend
forecasts .  “Seadrill offers ample market leverage through four
available ultra-deep-water newbuilds, combined with an
attractive dividend policy,” RS Platou Markets AS analyst
Anders Bergland said in an e-mail. “With accretive corporate
changes likely in the pipeline, we remain positive to the stock
and reiterate our buy recommendation.”  The broker has increased its 2013 and 2014 earnings per
share estimates by 6 percent and 2 percent respectively,
Bergland wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo on  at
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  