-- SEC to Vote June 5 on Floating Share for Riskier Money Funds
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-05-29T22:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/sec-to-vote-next-week-on-floating-share-for-riskier-money-funds.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission will vote next week on a proposal that would require
a floating-share value for the riskiest type of money-market
mutual funds, two people briefed on the matter said.  The floating-share proposal would apply only to funds that
buy corporate debt and cater to institutional clients, said the
people, who asked not to be named because details of the
proposal haven’t been made public. The commission announced in a
notice posted on its website today that it would meet on June 5
to consider rules governing  money-market funds .  The proposal is the SEC’s response to the role that money
funds played in the 2008 financial crisis, when investors fled
from “prime” funds, whose holdings include short-term
corporate debt such as commercial paper. The failure of the
$62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund, caused by losses on debt
issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., triggered a wider run
on money funds that helped freeze global credit markets.  Money funds, which hold $2.6 trillion in assets, are now
allowed to keep a stable value of $1 a share, which makes them
appealing to investors and companies that use them like cash
accounts. SEC Chairman Mary Jo White has said any changes to
money funds would maintain their value to investors.  Supporters of a floating-share price for money funds say it
would limit runs by conditioning investors to accept that the
value of an investment will vary. The money-fund industry has
said a floating-share price would destroy the appeal of money
funds, although the fund industry’s trade association issued a
more measured statement today.  ‘Extensive Research’  “We look forward to seeing the rule proposal on money
market funds that the commission plans to consider at next
week’s meeting,” Mike McNamee, an Investment Company Institute
spokesman, said in the statement. “We expect this proposal will
reflect the extensive research and discussion among
commissioners and staff since last summer.”  The proposal appears to have support among commissioners.
Commissioner Luis A. Aguilar has said the new proposal is
improved over a version that commissioners discussed, but never
voted on, in 2012 under former Chairman  Mary Schapiro . Aguilar
said May 9 that he hadn’t found anything objectionable in the
proposal.  Commissioner Elisse B. Walter told reporters last week that
she likes the proposal. She declined to describe its substance
before it is made public.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net ;
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  