-- Serbia Risks Downgrade on Deficits, S&P Analyst Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-05-29T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/serbia-risks-downgrade-on-deficits-s-p-analyst-says.html
Serbia risks a downgrade in its
credit rating unless the government squeezes spending more,
promotes export growth and secures a new agreement with the
 International Monetary Fund , a  Standard & Poor’s  analyst said.  The former Yugoslav republic has a “one-in-three” chance
of earning a reduction at S&P, which rates Serbia BB- with a
negative outlook, analyst Ana Jelenkovic said in a May 28 phone
interview. Concerns about the  budget deficit  and current-account
gap financing outweigh “positive pressures,” including the
economy’s growth potential and European Union membership
prospects, Jelenkovic said.  “The risks are more heavily weighted on the downside, and
indicate a one-in-three chance of a downgrade over the next one
to two years,” Jelenkovic said from  London . A downgrade may
come “in the event of significant deterioration in the fiscal
and external balance sheets versus the previous year.”  Serbian Premier  Ivica Dacic ’s 11-month old Cabinet,
awaiting a date next month for the start of EU membership talks,
needs to cut spending by 2 percent of gross domestic product to
put public finances on a more sustainable footing  and avert the
threat of a debt crisis.  The yield on Serbia’s 10-year Eurobond maturing in 2021
rose to 5.54 percent by 4:23 p.m. in Belgrade, the highest level
since April 3, while the dinar traded at a five-week low of
111.4740 per euro, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Planned Deficit  Serbia has planned a fiscal gap of 3.6 percent of GDP,
which may balloon to 8 percent of GDP this year if it leaves
current policies unchanged, the IMF said on May 22, after
concluding a two-week long review of the economy.  The Washington-based lender refrained from negotiating a
new precautionary loan, which  Serbia  wants as proof to investors
that the government’s policies are on track.  Though the Cabinet is unlikely to meet its deficit target
this year, it’s expected to “make progress in cutting back the
primary deficit,” Jelenkovic said.  “A deal with the IMF would help implement structural and
fiscal reforms and stabilize the credit rating,” while
“rebalancing toward a supply-driven economic model would
support a stabilization of the ratings at the current level,”
she said.  Serbian central bank Governor Jorgovanka Tabakovic, who is
a member of the Serbian Progressive Party of former
nationalists, told a group of Belgrade economics students on May
27 that credit ratings represent a “political means to force
certain countries to implement unpopular measures” and put
Serbia in a group of countries that include Angola, Suriname and
Burkina Faso.  ‘Difficult’ Growth  In the short-term, economic growth in Serbia and the region
“will be difficult to achieve” because of the euro-area
crisis, Jelenkovic said.  Serbia’s economy will grow 2 percent this year, the
government estimates, after a 1.7 percent contraction in 2012
put the Balkan nation into its second recession in three years
and pushed the  unemployment rate  over 23 percent.  S&P remains concerned about Serbia’s ability to finance the
current-account deficit at a time when foreign direct
investments are no longer sufficient to cover the gap and the
government “assumes the role of external borrower,” Jelenkovic
said.  The shortfall is projected to narrow to 8.5 percent of GDP
from 10.7 percent last year, according to central bank
estimates.  Political Questions  The ratings company will also be looking at the political
situation in Serbia, its ties with the EU, the breakaway Kosovo
province and other neighbors, as well as “policy effectiveness
and the independence of institutions” when it reviews Serbia
later this year, Jelenkovic said.  Serbia signed a landmark accord with Kosovo in April and
agreed this week on what steps to implement, bolstering the
country’s chance of getting a date for membership talks when the
Council of the  Europe  meets on June 28, a day after a debate in
 Germany ’s Bundestag in Berlin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  