-- Shirakawa Gets Bonus as Kuroda Tackles Deflation
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-05-30T02:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/shirakawa-rated-1-5-out-of-2-by-boj-peers-with-219-000-bonus.html
Masaaki Shirakawa, the  Bank of Japan 
governor who protected the nation from financial shocks while
failing to defeat deflation, was awarded a 22.2 million yen
($219,000) performance bonus by his peers at the BOJ.  The payment was calculated on the basis of a 1.5 out of 2
rating for his five years at the helm, an annual report posted
on the BOJ’s website yesterday showed. The central bank said
previously that the assessment would be by colleagues who
remained on the policy board when the governor and two deputies
exited in March.  Haruhiko Kuroda, Shirakawa’s replacement, is rolling out
unprecedented monetary easing to try to jolt the world’s third-biggest economy out of a deflationary malaise. In March,
Shirakawa concluded what he called an “extreme” period, which
included the global financial crisis, by warning that increasing
the supply of money won’t be enough by itself to end deflation.  “Monetary policy of course has a role, but it’s necessary
for a wide range of institutions to make efforts to boost
competitiveness and growth potential,” Shirakawa said at his
final press conference.  The only previous governor to be scored on the scale was
Shirakawa’s predecessor Toshihiko Fukui, who received a mark of
1.5, according to a BOJ spokeswoman. The rating is multiplied by
monthly salary and months of service, and then divided by eight
to determine the bonus.  Shirakawa’s monthly pay was about 2 million yen, while his
deputies Hirohide Yamaguchi and Kiyohiko Nishimura earned about
1.6 million yen, according to the BOJ.  Koichi Hamada, an economic adviser to Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe, said in an interview in  Tokyo  this week
that he gave Kuroda a high score for his efforts during his
first months in the job.  “I would avoid giving him full marks because I don’t see
everything he does,” Hamada said. “I would give him about 90
percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  