-- SNB May Need to Raise Rates to Cool Housing Market: OECD
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-05-29T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/snb-may-need-to-raise-rates-to-cool-housing-market-oecd.html
Switzerland’s central bank  may have
to raise interest rates to help control the country’s booming
property market, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said.  “In view of robust mortgage lending increases combined
with price tensions in some parts of the housing market, the
Swiss National Bank may have to raise rates,” the OECD said in
its economic outlook, published today, without giving a time
frame. “With inflation set to remain very low, zero policy
rates are appropriate throughout the projection horizon.”  Switzerland is experiencing its strongest  housing boom  in
two decades, a by-product of the SNB’s loose monetary policy. It
set a cap of 1.20 per euro on the franc in September 2011 to
shield the economy from deflation and a recession brought on by
euro-area turmoil, having cut rates to zero a month earlier.  “Mortgage lending and price appreciation in some segments
of the housing market have risen to a point where their
sustainability is questionable,” the Paris-based body said.
“Low interest rates may keep fueling house price appreciation,
creating potential instability further down the road, especially
as interest rates rise from historic lows.”  Capital Buffer  Not a single economist in a Bloomberg survey expects the
SNB to raise rates before the third quarter of 2014, according
to data published on May 9.  The Swiss National Bank has repeatedly warned of risks in
the property market, with Vice President Jean-Pierre Danthine
saying last month that the level of mortgage debt to gross
domestic product had grown unsustainable. The Swiss government
in February, at the behest of the central bank, announced
lenders would have to hold more capital as a buffer to guard
against mortgage risks as of Sept. 30.  Consumer prices are expected to stop falling next year, the
OECD also said, in line with the SNB’s own forecasts, as the
economy adjusts to the strength of the franc.  “There are signs that the appreciation is being absorbed,
with some prices rising again and a rebound in several of the
affected export industries,” it said.  The OECD sees the Swiss economy growing 1.4 percent this
year, with a pick up to 2 percent expected in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  