-- SoftBank Gets National-Security Approval for Sprint Deal
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-05-29T20:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/softbank-gets-national-security-approval-for-sprint-deal.html
SoftBank Corp. (9984)  won U.S. national-security clearance for its $20.1 billion takeover of  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S) , helping shore up the deal as the Japanese company
tries to ward off a counteroffer from  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)   SoftBank and Sprint were notified yesterday by the
Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. that it has
completed its investigation of the proposed transaction and
found no unresolved national-security issues, according to a
statement today. SoftBank expects the deal to close July 1.  Dish Network Corp., which made a $25.5 billion bid last
month for Sprint, has said allowing Tokyo-based SoftBank to
control a U.S. phone network would compromise national security.
The most contentious matter was whether SoftBank would use
Chinese-manufactured equipment in Sprint’s network, something it
pledged not to do. Gaining the CFIUS’s blessing removes some
ammunition from Dish in its attacks on the deal.  “One political barrier is cleared and it’s a plus for
SoftBank,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , chief fund manager at Shinkin
Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $4.8
billion in assets. “Dish has criticized this.”  Shares of Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint climbed 0.1
percent to $7.28 at the close in New York, while Dish fell 2.2
percent to $39.25. SoftBank  rose  2.1 percent to 5,320 yen at the
close in  Tokyo .  Security Agreement  The national-security agreement requires the companies to
appoint an independent security director to the new Sprint
board, according to a  regulatory filing . The security director
will be approved by U.S. agencies and serve as a contact between
the government and Sprint. Regulators also will have oversight
on network-equipment and service purchases by the company.  SoftBank and Sprint also agreed to create a small
subsidiary company to handle classified government work,
according to a person familiar with the negotiations. Similar
provisions were established when Paris-based Alcatel combined
with New Jersey-based Lucent Technologies Inc., and when
Bermuda-based Global Crossing Ltd. got an investment from
Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte.  “CFIUS has historically been active in the telecom space
because there have been so many cross-border acquisitions,”
said  Nancy McLernon , president of the Organization for
International Investment, a Washington-based lobbying group that
represents more than 160 companies that invest in the U.S. “The
SoftBank-Sprint approval appears to signal an increased focus on
the supply chain by CFIUS.”  ‘Unsettled’ Future  The acquisition would give SoftBank 70 percent of Sprint,
the third-largest U.S. wireless network. Last week, Sprint said
it had received the final necessary state regulatory approvals
for the SoftBank merger.  The SoftBank transaction is also under review by the
Federal Communications Commission. Dish, a satellite-TV provider
controlled by billionaire Charlie Ergen, has urged the FCC to
delay any action on its review of the SoftBank deal.  Sprint’s future is “unsettled” while the company
considers the Dish offer, the satellite company said in a filing
last month.  SoftBank has argued that Dish would load Sprint with too
much debt if it’s allowed to acquire the carrier. To finance the
deal, Dish has raised about $2.6 billion in a bond offering
managed by Barclays Plc, Jefferies Group LLC, Macquarie Group
Ltd. and Royal Bank of  Canada . It tapped the same banks, along
with  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , for a total of $9.3 billion in loans.  Deliberation, Caution  In reaction to the national-security agreement, Dish
spokesman Bob Toevs said SoftBank’s deal still presents risks.  “The U.S. government should continue to proceed with
deliberation and caution in turning over assets of national
strategic importance -- such as the Sprint fiber backbone and
wireless networks -- to a foreign-controlled entity with
significant ties to China,” said Toevs, whose company is based
in Englewood,  Colorado .  The use of Chinese-made equipment became a bigger issue
after a House Intelligence Committee report last year urged U.S.
companies to steer clear of Huawei Technologies Co. and ZTE
Corp., citing concerns that the Chinese government could install
malicious hardware or software in U.S. telecommunications
networks.  SoftBank,  Japan ’s third-largest wireless carrier, uses some
base band units and antenna systems from Huawei and ZTE for its
fourth-generation mobile network. Alcatel-Lucent and Ericsson AB
provide the core network.  Huawei Question  The merged company also will have to deal with Huawei gear
in the network of  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , a Sprint takeover target.
After the proposed combination with Clearwire, which is slated
for a shareholder vote this week, Sprint will have to absorb
that company’s network into its own. Sprint said in today’s
filing that it plans to remove the Clearwire equipment in
question by the end of 2016 under the CFIUS agreement.  William Plummer, a U.S.-based spokesman for Huawei, said
the debate over using Chinese equipment is off-base. Every major
U.S. carrier uses some supplies from the country, he said.  “No matter who wins the bid for Sprint, the future Sprint
network will be sourced, in part, from China, just as are the
networks of AT&T and Verizon and every other carrier,” Plummer
said. “Every telecom infrastructure vendor, regardless of
geography of headquarters, conducts R&D, codes software and
manufactures gear on a global basis, including -- all -- in
 China . All rely on common supply chains, and all are subject to
common vulnerabilities.”  ‘Apparent Indifference’  Crest Financial Ltd., a Clearwire investor that is opposing
the Sprint takeover, sent a letter to the FCC complaining that
SoftBank and Sprint are already behaving like a merged company -
- even as the commission continues to evaluate the deal.  “SoftBank and Sprint have jumped the gun on the
commission’s review, showing their apparent indifference to the
commission’s public interest inquiry,” Crest said in the
letter. “Although the commission’s review remains ongoing and
SoftBank itself is locked in a bidding war with Dish Network for
Sprint, SoftBank has been directing and manipulating Sprint’s
critical business decisions as if its merger with Sprint were
already approved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  