-- Sonangol Taps Angola’s Vice President for Stake in Oil Prospect
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-05-29T10:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/sonangol-taps-angola-s-vice-president-for-stake-in-oil-prospect.html
Sonangol Pesquisa & Producao SA, the
Angolan oil company adding exploration assets to boost output,
plans to buy a stake in an offshore block from the country’s
vice president.  Sonangol will purchase 15 percent of Block 21-09 from
Nazaki Oil & Gaz SA, a company held by Vice President Manuel
Vicente and two senior generals, according to a Feb. 28 decree
allowing the sale and seen by Bloomberg this week.  Sonangol P&P, an exploration unit of  Angola ’s state oil
producer, is snapping up assets as the nation targets output of
2 million barrels a day by 2017, an increase of more than 10
percent. The southern African country, the continent’s largest
oil producer after Nigeria, is seeking to benefit from crude
prices that have more than doubled since the start of 2009.  Block 21-09 is operated by  Cobalt International Energy
Inc. (CIE) , which said in March that tests at two project wells had
been “outstanding.” Production is planned for 2016.  Nazaki’s ties to Angola’s leadership prompted the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Department of
Justice to open a bribery probe into the operations of Houston-based Cobalt in 2011. Cobalt denied any wrongdoing. Angola ranks
157th out of 176 nations on Transparency International’s 2012
Corruption Perceptions Index.  Total Deal  A separate February decree also shows Sonangol is buying 15
percent of Block 15-06 from Total SA. Luanda-based Sonangol is
stepping up its search for crude after pledging to spend $8.8
billion on exploration in a decade. At both blocks, it has right
of first refusal on any partner’s share in the event of a sale.  The purchase from Nazaki will give Sonangol 35 percent of
Block 21, where Cobalt has a 40 percent stake and closely held
Alper Oil Ltda holds 10 percent. Nazaki will retain 15 percent
in 21-09.  Joao Santos, a spokesman for Sonangol in Luanda, didn’t
reply to e-mails seeking comment. Lynne Hackedorn, a spokeswoman
for Cobalt based in Houston, also didn’t respond. No one at
Nazaki and Alper was available to comment.  Nazaki’s other owners are Leopoldino Fragoso do Nascimento,
chief of intelligence at the presidency, and Manuel Helder Vieira Dias, known as Kopelipa, head of the military bureau,
incorporation documents show. The ownership was confirmed by
Vicente in an interview last year with the Financial Times.  Cobalt, which is part-owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
First Reserve Corp., Riverstone Holdings LLC,  Carlyle Group LP (CG) 
and KERN Partners Ltd., also plans to develop the “super-size”
Lontra prospect in Block 20, which it has described as the
“largest four-way structure in the Kwanza Basin.”  It joins companies such as  BP Plc (BP/)  and ConocoPhillips in
exploring below a layer of salt beneath the seabed off  Africa ’s
coast. They’re searching for crude in the hope that the geology
mirrors that off  Brazil  on the other side of the Atlantic, where
some of the largest oilfields of the past decade were found.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  