-- Sony Taps Apple Alumni for Board
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-05-30T09:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/sony-adds-former-apple-executives-as-hirai-targets-mobile.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  Chief Executive Officer
 Kazuo Hirai  is trying to win back customers from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  with
new Xperia smartphones. Adding two former executives of the
iPhone maker to Sony’s board next month may help.  Eikoh Harada, who spent seven years as head of Apple in
 Japan , and Tim Schaaff, who worked for the iPad maker until
2005, are nominated to become directors at Sony’s annual
shareholder meeting on June 20.  Hirai cut jobs and sold assets to help the Tokyo-based
company post its first annual profit in five years as consumers
once drawn to Walkmans and Bravia televisions now flock to
products from Apple and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Winning
customers with Xperia handsets is key to his plan to revive
Sony’s unprofitable electronics operations by bringing what he
called “inspiration” to its hardware.  “It would help Sony to gain outside board members that
have expertise in businesses that Sony is trying to
strengthen,” said Koki Shiraishi, an  analyst  at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. “It is common for a company to approach people
with experience at a growth company.”  Sony nominated three directors to its board for approval by
shareholders next month, replacing four that will retire,
including board Chairman and former CEO  Howard Stringer .  The third nominee, Joichi Ito, is a director of the Media
Lab at  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and also the  New
York  Times Co.  Apple Sales  The additions to the board come as existing directors
discuss whether to adopt billionaire hedge-fund manager  Daniel Loeb ’s proposal for an initial public offering of Sony’s
entertainment business that includes a Hollywood movie studio
and music operations. Talks on the plan from Loeb’s Third Point
LLC, a Sony shareholder, are at an early stage and “it’s
important that the board will discuss this and come to a
decision that represents Sony’s stance,” Hirai said May 22.  Sony has jumped 6.9 percent since Loeb told Hirai that
partially spinning off the entertainment assets would bring a
higher valuation and raise cash for the company, whose movie
studio topped the U.S. box office last year with hits including
“Skyfall.” Film and financial services earnings have helped
the company counter nine straight annual losses from making TVs.  While Sony’s smartphone unit is expecting 27 percent growth
in shipments this year, it remains dwarfed by Cupertino,
California-based Apple’s sales.  The Japanese company expects handset sales of 42 million
units in the year ending March 31. Apple sold almost 48 million
iPhones in the December quarter alone, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  McDonalds Japan  Sony’s market share in the worldwide smartphone industry
rose to 3.8 percent in the first quarter of 2013 from 3.6
percent a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Samsung and Apple together controlled 49 percent of sales.  Harada worked for Apple for 14 years, leaving in 2004 after
spending his final seven years there as head of Japanese
operations.  After leaving Apple, Harada joined McDonald’s Holdings Co.
(Japan) as CEO to revamp the Japanese operations of the world’s
largest hamburger chain. He shut about 600 unprofitable or small
restaurants, upgraded the menu and lured customers through
partnerships with  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  and  Nintendo Co. (7974)  for online
services at outlets.  Digital Garage  Harada’s expertise and successful career at Apple, and his
experience in businesses that face consumers directly, were some
of the reasons he was nominated, Hirai told reporters at a May
22 briefing. Schaaff’s experience in Silicon Valley can help
Sony as the electronics maker increasingly focuses on expanding
network businesses, he said.  Schaaff joined Sony in 2005 from Apple, where he held
positions including vice president of Interactive Media,
according to the Japanese electronics maker. His contributions
at Apple included managing the development and maintenance of
the QuickTime platform, Sony said when he joined the company.  “I doubt Sony can catch up with Apple after all this time,
it may be better to gain talents from a totally different
field,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , president of Fukoku Capital
Management Inc. in Tokyo. “It’s hard to say whether these
nominees will help Sony as it’s not very clear to investors
where the company is heading.”  Schaaff stepped down as president of Sony Network
Entertainment, the company’s online service, last year after
attacks from computer hackers compromised customer information
in 2011.  Ito is a co-founder of  Digital Garage Inc. (4819) , a Japanese
online service company whose alliance partners include Twitter
Inc.  Digital Garage also has a stake in  Facebook Inc. (FB)  through
its investment arm. Akari Fukuda, a spokeswoman for Tokyo-based
Digital Garage, declined to elaborate on the investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  