-- South Korea Criticizes North Proposal for Talks on Joint Complex
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2013-05-29T04:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/south-korea-criticizes-north-proposal-for-talks-on-joint-complex.html
South Korea  criticized  North Korea 
for proposing a visit by private companies to a shuttered
jointly run industrial park while refusing an overture for
government-level talks.  “North Korea should stop raising doubts through its two-faced actions and return to government-level dialogue,”
Unification Ministry spokesman Kim Hyung Suk told reporters
today in Seoul. “The South Korean government already proposed
working-level talks on May 14.”  North Korea on April 8 suspended operations indefinitely at
the Gaeseong complex at a time when Kim Jong Un’s regime was
threatening preemptive nuclear strikes in response to U.S.-South
Korea joint military drills. The last South Korean workers left
on May 3 after a dispute over unpaid wages and bills in the
zone, which had been a source of hard currency for the
impoverished North.  “The kind of confrontation that we’re seeing now is
classic in that North Korea has been throwing around threats
that they can’t afford to follow through with,” said Kim Seok
Hyang, a professor of North Korean studies at Ewha Womans
University in  Seoul . “The rules of game are changing in that
public opinion in the South has turned more sour against the
North.”  Kim’s regime said yesterday it would agree to discuss the
future of Gaeseong with executives of South Korean companies
based at the facility, about 10 kilometers (6 miles) north of
the demilitarized zone.  Mutual Profits  The complex employed more than 53,000 North Koreans working
for 123 South Korean companies. Production has generated $100
million in annual profits for North Korea and four times that
for the South, according to Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the
University of North Korean Studies in Seoul.  North Korea’s proposal came days after it reaffirmed its
commitment to atomic weapons in a statement that attacked South
Korean President Park Geun Hye. The nuclear reaffirmation defied
urging by Chinese President Xi Jinping that Kim’s government
return to nuclear disarmament talks.  China  is North Korea’s
biggest benefactor and trading partner.  Tensions on the Korean peninsula flared after North Korea
defied United Nations sanctions with a rocket launch in December
then conducted a nuclear test in February. The Obama
administration has said that North Korea must pledge to abandon
its atomic ambitions as a condition to resuming six-nation talks
that were abandoned in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Biggs at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net  