-- Spain’s Navarra Bank Debuts Covered Bonds as Issuance Recovers
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-05-29T12:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/spain-s-navarra-bank-debuts-covered-bonds-as-issuance-recovers.html
Caja Rural de Navarra is issuing the
Spanish savings bank’s first covered bonds backed by residential
and commercial mortgages as sales of secured debt by the
nation’s lenders increase.  Navarra cut the yield it’s offering on the 500 million
euros ($647.5 million) of five-year bonds to 200 basis points
more than swaps from about 215 basis points initially marketed,
according to people familiar with the deal. The average spread
investors demand to hold Spanish covered notes has fallen to 198
basis points, near the lowest in three years, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Issuance of the debt by Spanish lenders is recovering after
collapsing when the nation’s property bubble burst and the
mortgage market shrank. A total 9 billion euros of the notes
have been sold this year, compared with 10 billion euros for the
whole of 2012, according to  Credit Agricole SA. (ACA)   “It’s a positive signal that smaller Spanish savings banks
can fund themselves in the wholesale market,” said  Maureen Schuller , a covered bond analyst at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.
“Tighter sovereign spreads have made it easier for these
issuers to come to market.”  Spain ’s 10-year bond yield has dropped to 4.38 percent,
holding near the 2 1/2-year low of 3.94 percent reached on May
3, and down from a euro-era record of 7.75 percent in July after
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  requested a financial package for
the nation’s banks from the European Union.  Higher Ratings  Covered bonds typically pay less interest and get higher
credit ratings than unsecured debt because they are backed by a
pool of mortgages or public sector loans on top of the issuer
guarantee. About 70 percent of the cover pool for Navarra’s
bonds is made up of residential mortgages, Moody’s Investors
Service reported earlier this month.  “The main reason why we are doing this issue is to
diversify our funding base,” said Miguel Garcia de Eulate Martin-Moro, head of treasury at Pamplona-based Caja Rural de
Navarra. “We have been able to tighten the pricing of the bond
because of huge demand, more than double the size of the
intended issue.”  Elsewhere in European credit markets, Spanish utility
 Iberdrola SA (IBE)  is selling 600 million euros of bonds due November
2020 that will yield 158 basis points more than swaps, according
to people familiar with the transaction. It’s the Bilbao-based
company’s first fundraising since February, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Tobacco Bonds  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) , the world’s largest
publicly traded tobacco company, is raising 500 million euros
from 20-year securities yielding 90 basis points more than
swaps. The New York-based company raised 2 billion euros in the
common currency from bonds this year, Bloomberg data show.  Italy’s biggest utility,  Enel SpA (ENEL)  hired banks for a
potential sale of as much as $6.5 billion of hybrid bonds in
euros, dollars and pounds, joining companies such as Iberdrola
and Electricite de France SA seeking to shore up credit ratings
with securities that combine debt with equity. Companies sold a
record 17 billion euros of hybrid securities in  Europe  this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  