-- Spain to Decide on Fix for EU Carbon Market in Two Weeks
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-05-29T15:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/spain-to-decide-on-fix-for-eu-carbon-market-in-two-weeks.html
Spain ’s government is discussing
whether to back a draft emergency measure to strengthen Europe’s
carbon market and will decide about its position in two weeks,
State Secretary for Environment Federico Ramos said.  The European Union’s 27 nations and the region’s parliament
are considering a proposal to temporarily curb a surplus of
emission permits in the world’s biggest cap-and-trade program
and to help boost prices from record lows. The measure, known as
backloading because it would delay sales of some allowances, has
divided governments and industry.  “My minister and I will do our best to find a positive
position on backloading or any other measures that help to
maintain the EU emissions trading system,” Ramos said in an
interview during the Carbon Expo conference in Barcelona today.
“The industry department has some doubts and we have to solve
them in the next two weeks.”  Spain is one of the key countries in the debate about the
carbon fix because of its relative size. To be enacted, the
rescue plan requires a qualified majority support from EU  member
states  in a weighted-vote system that favors larger nations. The
draft measure would also need approval from the European
Parliament, which will hold a second vote on it in July after an
initial rejection in April.  “Official support for backloading from  Madrid  could tip
the balance in the upcoming parliament plenary vote if Spanish
members were to follow their own government,” Itamar Orlandi,
an analyst in  London  at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said by
email. “A public Spanish commitment to the backloading plan
before July 2 could therefore trigger an increased volume of
speculative bets ahead of the vote.”  Carbon Gains  Carbon for delivery in December extended gains to as much
as 5.2 percent, reaching a three-week high of 3.84 euros a
metric ton. They were trading 3.8 percent higher at 3.79 euros
on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange at 2:02 p.m. in London. The
contracts fell to a record 2.46 euros last month.  Following July’s vote by the Parliament, EU governments
will need to announce their decision on the European
Commission’s carbon market proposal. To be approved by member
states, the measure needs 255 out of 345 country votes. Spain
has 27, just two less than the bloc’s biggest nation  Germany .  Environment and energy ministers from nine countries,
including Germany,  France  and the U.K., called on the EU
Parliament earlier this month to support backloading and urged
the commission to present legislation on a deeper overhaul of
the ETS by the end of 2013.  Corporate Support  The Prince of  Wales ’s Corporate Leaders Group on  Climate
Change , which brings together companies including Alstom SA,
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Coca Cola Enterprises Inc. and  Unilever
NV (UNA) , backed the ministers’ call.  While the carbon fix has more supporters than opponents
among EU nations, its advocates are currently short of a
qualified majority as several countries including Germany and
the  Czech Republic  haven’t adopted official positions yet.
Poland, Cyprus and  Greece , which have a total of 43 votes, have
said they won’t back the measure. To stop it, they would have to
form a blocking minority of 91 votes.  Germany will decide how to vote after elections in
September. Should the country abstain, its 29 votes will
effectively count as being against the carbon fix.  It’s important to send a positive message about the EU
emissions trading system, Ramos said.  “This is a very useful tool and we should be able to
guarantee the future of this tool,” he said. “We are facing an
economic crisis, but for us in the environment department it’s
not an obstacle to continue the ETS and support backloading.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Barcelona at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net 
Alessandro Vitelli in Barcelona at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  