-- STX Pan Ocean Stock Rises on Report Creditor Bank May Buy
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-05-29T07:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/stx-pan-ocean-rises-on-report-creditor-bank-may-buy-seoul-mover.html
STX Pan Ocean Co. (028670) ,  South Korea ’s
biggest commodities ship operator, jumped the most in five
months in  Seoul  trading after Korea Economic Daily reported that
a main creditor bank may buy the company.  Pan Ocean jumped by the daily 15 percent limit, the most
since Dec. 28, to close at 3,150 won. The stock, the  fifth-best
performer  on the Kospi index today, has fallen 33 percent this
year, compared with a 0.2 percent gain for the benchmark.  Parent company STX Group is seeking to sell stakes in some
businesses including Pan Ocean, amid a rate slump that has
caused shipbuilding orders to fall and forced its three biggest
units to seek voluntary debt rescheduling.  Korea Development
Bank  may buy Pan Ocean after writing off the stake owned by the
company’s major shareholder and getting creditors to swap debt
for equity, the newspaper reported today.  “Individual investors are buying on the news,” Park Moo Hyun, an analyst at E*Trade Securities Korea in Seoul, said by
telephone. “An acquisition by Korea Development Bank will mean
that the group’s financial strains could be eased somewhat.”  STX Group is in talks with Korea Development Bank on
selling its stake in Pan Ocean, STX said in an e-mailed response
to  Bloomberg News  queries on the newspaper report, which cited
unidentified  investment banking  and regulatory officials. The
creditor is considering various options on Pan Ocean, it said.  STX Corp. (011810) , the group’s holding company and Pan Ocean’s
biggest  shareholder , advanced 15 percent to 2,675 won. STX
Offshore & Shipbuilding Co. climbed 9.1 percent to 4,000 won.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  