-- Swatch Chairwoman Says Watchmaker Is Diversifying on Asia Risk
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-05-29T10:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/swatch-chairwoman-says-watchmaker-is-diversifying-on-asia-risk.html
  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the biggest maker
of Swiss watches, said it’s expanding in markets outside of  Asia 
to offset risk of depending too much on that region.  “We cannot just rely on Asia and  China ,” Chairwoman Nayla Hayek said today at the company’s annual meeting with
shareholders in Biel, where Swatch Group is based. “There are a
number of markets which deserves a certain focus.”  Makers of Swiss timepieces have stepped up efforts to
expand in markets such as the U.S. and the  Middle East  to keep
sales growing. While greater China has been the biggest buyer of
Swiss watches over the past five years, sales there have
decelerated. Besides adding more Omega stores in the U.S.,
Swatch has been focusing more on Brazil and  Russia  ahead of
Olympic games in those two markets.  Swiss watch exports rose 3.3 percent in the first four
months of 2013 as shipments to China and  Hong Kong  combined
dropped 13 percent, according to the Federation of the Swiss
Watch Industry data.  Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek said in March the
industry’s growth will probably slow after expanding as much as
30 percent in recent years. He said at the time the industry
could expand 5 percent to 10 percent this year.  Cheaper Watch  Separately, the watchmaker is spending more than 50 million
francs to develop Sistem51, its new line of Swatch-brand
watches, CEO Hayek said today.  Swatch plans to start selling the watches in October.
Sistem51 are automatic timepieces whose prices will mostly be at
the lower end of a 100 Swiss franc to 200 franc range, Hayek
said in April. Most self-winding mechanical watches cost
thousands of francs.  Automatic watches work without batteries as they gather
energy from movements of the wearer’s wrist. The mechanism that
makes the Sistem51 run has 51 components, while most automatic
watches have hundreds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  