-- Sweden Defies Europe’s Crisis as Rebound Trounces Forecast
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-05-29T08:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/swedish-economy-shows-resilience-as-first-quarter-beats-forecast.html
Sweden ’s economy grew twice as fast
as predicted in the first quarter, sapping speculation that the
central bank will need to cut  interest rates  at its July
meeting.  The krona jumped as much as 0.7 percent against the euro,
and traded 0.5 percent higher at 8.6004 against the common
currency as of 10:30 a.m., making it the biggest gainer among
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Futures on the Riksbank’s
benchmark repo rate rose 1 basis point to 0.89 percent.  Gross domestic product  expanded a quarterly 0.6 percent in
the three months through March, after growing a revised 0.1
percent the prior quarter, Stockholm-based  Statistics Sweden 
said today.  Annual growth  was 1.7 percent, up from 1.4 percent.
The quarterly expansion was seen at 0.3 percent, in a  Bloomberg
survey (SWGDPAQQ)  of 12 economists.  “We’re still not seeing the upswing that the figure
suggests at first glance because investments are still a worry
and investment surveys indicate that companies have modest plans
through the rest of the year,” said Knut Hallberg, an analyst
at Swedbank AB in  Stockholm . “We’re awfully close in our view
that they will cut rates but our house view is still that they
will stay unchanged.”  Falling Exports  Sweden’s central bank last month said it will probably keep
its  main lending rate  unchanged at 1 percent at its next meeting
on July 2 even as it raised the likelihood of a fifth rate cut
since 2011 to boost faltering domestic demand.  Today’s data showed that  consumer (SWECCI)  spending and inventories
contributed to annual growth, while investments and exports
declined. Services production increased, helping offset a
decline in the output of goods.  Riksbank Deputy Governor Per Jansson said last week the
first-quarter growth figures will be “very important” to his
decision on rates at the central bank’s July 2 meeting.  Consumer and  manufacturing confidence  improved last quarter
as the debt crisis in  Europe  showed signs of easing and stock
markets surged. Swedish economic growth will pick up to 1.3
percent this year after slowing to 0.8 percent in 2012, SEB AB
predicted last week.  Finance Minister  Anders Borg  has said the government needs
to keep stimulating the economy next year to boost demand. It’s
spending 23 billion kronor ($3.6 billion), or about 0.7 percent
of GDP, this year on infrastructure, research and on cutting the
corporate  tax rate  to 22 percent from 26.3 percent.  Still, unemployment stayed at its highest level in almost
three years last month. Companies including Ericsson AB, the
world’s largest maker of mobile phone networks, are cutting jobs
to cope with weak demand abroad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  