-- Switzerland Follows U.S. as IMD’s Most Competitive Countries
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-05-30T09:59:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/switzerland-follows-u-s-at-top-of-imd-competitiveness-ranking.html
The U.S. regained its lead in a
competitiveness ranking of 60 economies, while  Switzerland  rose
one notch, bucking the trend in Europe.  The U.S. is first on the IMD business school’s annual list
after coming second in 2012, thanks to a rebounding financial
sector, an abundance of technological innovation and successful
companies, the Lausanne, Switzerland-based business school said
in a statement today.  Switzerland’s export-oriented manufacturing economy
surpassed that of  Hong Kong , which fell to third place. While
the franc’s 30 percent gain against the euro over the past five
years makes the country less competitive, Switzerland still
outranked the rest of Europe, most of which is held back by
 government spending  cuts.  “Switzerland is one of the few countries in Europe
together with Germany that has kept manufacturing capabilities,
despite it becoming more expensive,” Stephane Garelli, director
of the IMD World Competitiveness Center, said in a phone
interview.  GDP Report  The  Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  has shielded manufacturers from
further currency pressure with a ceiling of 1.20 francs per euro
since 2011. The country’s gross domestic product rose 0.6
percent in the first quarter from the fourth, triple the average
rate economists had forecast, helped by  consumer spending .  One-third of the ranking is from a survey of 4,200
executives, with the remainder pulled from statistics such as
gross domestic product and government spending on scientific
research. Among other shifts, the  United Arab Emirates  rose to
eighth place from 16th while the Netherlands dropped to 14th
from 11th. Germany kept its ranking at ninth place while France
was 28th.  Swiss companies from watchmaker  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  to  Nestle
SA (NESN) , the largest food and beverage producer, have shifted focus
to customers in fast-developing Asia, which has protected
Switzerland from Europe’s financial woes, Garelli said.  Aside from Switzerland, Sweden and Germany, the rest of
Europe is heavily constrained by austerity programs that are
delaying recovery, while France and the U.K. in particular have
lost competitive clout, IMD said.  Switzerland’s biggest problem is political weakness as
conflicts over secrecy laws leave the country’s banks at risk of
having licenses removed by countries like France and the U.S,
Garelli said.  “The Swiss have the impression that when they go into a
negotiation there is nothing to negotiate,” he said.  “Switzerland has some leading companies in the food and
pharmaceutical industries,” he said. “We don’t have a special
law for them, but we do have a special law for banking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  