-- Syria Rebels Denounce Exile Leaders as Unrepresentative
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-05-29T13:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/syria-rebels-denounce-exile-leaders-as-unrepresentative.html
Syrian rebel groups based inside the
country accused the exiled opposition of failing to represent
the movement fighting Bashar al-Assad, complicating Russian and
U.S. efforts to convene peace talks between the warring sides.  The statement by four groups calling themselves the
Revolutionary Movement in Syria also demanded half the
leadership positions within the National Coalition.  The six-month-old exiled grouping “is unable to fulfill
its obligations due to the ongoing discord among the different
parties represented,” according to a statement on the website
of the Local Coordination Committees.  The comments illustrate fractures within the Syrian
opposition movement even as the U.S. and  Russia  seek to agree a
peace conference. The two countries are “deeply committed” to
the idea, Secretary of State  John Kerry  said after meeting
Russia’s Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  on May 27.  Even so, the international community remains divided on how
to end Syria’s civil war. Russia is supplying Assad with anti-aircraft and anti-ship missiles even as the European Union,
under pressure from Britain and France, have opened the way for
arms shipments to rebels.  The EU decision creates “serious hurdles on the way to
implementing an initiative to convene an international
conference on Syria,” Lavrov said today in comments broadcast
by state television.  Peace Talks  The Revolutionary Movement statement hinted at concerns
about how the peace talks might evolve, saying the sacrifices of
the Syrian people must be honored, “particularly in light of
the challenges posed by the Geneva 2 conference.”  The four groups that signed yesterday’s statement were the
Syrian Revolution General Commission, the Local Coordination
Committees in  Syria , the Syrian Revolution Coordinators’ Union
and the Supreme Council for the Leadership of the Syrian
Revolution. The groups are loosely linked to the main armed
opposition group, the Free Syrian Army, but don’t speak for it.  The Syrian National Coalition in Istanbul declined to
comment on the statement when contacted today.  Meanwhile, Assad’s troops and armor were reported to be
massing, with fighters from the Lebanese Hezbollah militant
group on the outskirts of Al-Qusair, a key town in central Syria
that’s been subject to assault for almost two weeks.  ‘Major Offensive’  “It looks like they’re preparing for a major offensive
against the rebels,” Rami Abdurrahman, founder of the U.K.-
based opposition group, the Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights ,
said in a phone interview today. Rebel positions are under
aerial and artillery bombardment, he said.  The rebel Tawheed Brigade in Aleppo called on the Lebanese
government in a YouTube statement read by one of the fighters
and posted on its Twitter account to restrain Hezbollah “or
else we will be forced to move the battle to Lebanese
territory.” He said his group has sent over 1,000 fighters to
Al-Qusair.  In Tehran, Iran today opened a two-day conference on Syria.
State news agencies said about 40 countries would attend
including Russia,  China ,  Algeria , Lebanon, Iraq and  Venezuela .  Iran’s Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  told the
conference that his country supports peace talks, which may be
held in Geneva next month.  “There is a need to end arms shipments into Syria, a need
to protect the borders of Syria and to prevent the dispatch of
armed extremist groups into Syria,” he said.  ‘Out of Control’  Russia wants  Iran  to attend peace talks while the U.S.
objects because it says the Islamic republic provides Assad with
weapons and military advisers and supports Hezbollah, which the
U.S. and  Israel  consider a terrorist group.  “The conflict in Syria is spinning out of control,”
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay
told an emergency human rights meeting on Syria in Geneva today.
“Government forces continue to carry out indiscriminate and
disproportionate shelling and aerial attacks resulting in
civilian deaths and injuries throughout the country,” including
Al-Qusair, she said.  French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said today that
imposing a no-fly zone over Syria would require five or six
times the military resources committed during the NATO-led
campaign in  Libya  in 2011.  “Bashar al-Assad has 550 fighter planes,” Fabius said on
 France  Inter radio. “France alone does not have the means.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  