-- U.K. Names UBS and Goldman Sachs to Lead Royal Mail Sale
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-05-29T13:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/u-k-names-ubs-and-goldman-sachs-to-lead-royal-mail-sale.html
The U.K. government appointed  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  as joint global coordinators and
joint bookrunners for the sale of  Royal Mail  Group Ltd, the
state-owned postal service.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  will be joint bookrunner and sponsor, and  Bank
of America (BAC)  Merrill Lynch will be joint bookrunner for the deal,
the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills in London
said in an e-mailed statement today. No final decision has been
taken about how or when to sell Royal Mail, according to the
statement. The government has said its preferred option is an
initial public offering by the end of the current financial year
next March.  “While all options for the form of sale remain open, it is
important that we are in a position to move ahead swiftly with
our chosen route once we take the final decision,” Business
Minister  Michael Fallon  said in the statement. “The appointed
banking syndicate will work to make sure we are ready to proceed
when the time comes and will be able to deliver strong, high-quality investor demand to ensure a successful IPO for the
taxpayer and for Royal Mail.”  The planned sale of Royal Mail will be the largest
privatization in Britain since former Prime Minister John Major
broke up the country’s railway more than a decade ago. The 360-year-old company, one of the nation’s biggest employers with
about 159,000 staff, has sought to adapt its letter-focused
network to more lucrative package delivery in the face of
competition from TNT NV of the Netherlands and  Deutsche Post
AG (DPW) ’s DHL Express unit.  Royal Mail’s operating profit more than doubled in the year
to March 31 to 403 million pounds ($609 million) as growth in
web-based shopping spurred parcel deliveries, the company said
in a  statement  last week. While sales gained 5 percent to 9.28
billion pounds, parcel revenue rose 9 percent.  Royal Mail appointed Equiniti Group this month to manage
the distribution of 10 percent of its shares to employees
following any sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  