-- U.S. FERC Chief to Leave After Replacement Is Confirmed
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-05-29T20:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/u-s-ferc-chief-to-leave-after-replacement-is-confirmed.html
Jon Wellinghoff, who as chairman of
the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  led a crackdown on U.S.
banks over alleged manipulation of energy markets, says he is
quitting.  Wellinghoff submitted his resignation to President  Barack Obama , who asked him to stay until a new commissioner is
confirmed by the Senate, Mary O’Driscoll, a spokeswoman for the
agency, said today in an interview. His term expires June 30.  “Under Chairman Wellinghoff’s leadership, FERC launched
important investigations to protect consumers against traders
and financial firms who manipulated energy markets,” Senator
 Ron Wyden , chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources
Committee, said in a statement. Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, also
credited Wellinghoff with promoting renewable energy.  The FERC chairman hasn’t given a reason for his departure
and hasn’t made any public announcements about the next stage in
his career, O’Driscoll said. He turns 64 tomorrow.  Under Wellinghoff, the commission began investigations of
possible energy-market manipulation by companies including
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
promoted incentives to build power lines and stepped up
oversight of electric-grid reliability. He was appointed to the
FERC in 2006 and Obama named him chairman in March 2009.  Expanded Powers  Congress in 2005 gave the regulator additional powers to
police energy markets, including the ability to fine those who
jeopardize grid reliability as much as $1 million per violation
per day. The agency under Wellinghoff has expanded its office of
enforcement to about 200 people whose tasks include policing
markets for manipulation.  Since January 2011, the FERC has disclosed 13
investigations of alleged market gaming, including probes of
traders for Barclays of  London , JPMorgan of New York and
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank. While the cases against the banks
drew attention, Wellinghoff has said the agency isn’t singling
out  Wall Street  in its oversight.  “We’re in full enforcement mode,” he said in November
during an interview with reporters and editors at Bloomberg’s
Washington office. “We’re not at war with anybody. We’re simply
trying to ensure that these markets are operating in a full and
fair manner.”  Record Fines  The agency has proposed a record $488 million in penalties
against Barclays and four former traders for allegedly gaming
U.S. power markets from late 2006 to 2008. Its investigation of
possible market violations by a JPMorgan energy trading unit is
pending. In both cases, the banks denied wrongdoing, and
Barclays has vowed to challenge any penalties in court.  The agency has settled cases with some companies. Deutsche
Bank in January agreed to pay $1.6 million to end a dispute with
the FERC, backing down from a showdown over the agency’s charge
that its traders manipulated  California ’s markets in early 2010.  The FERC in March 2012 reached a record $245 million
settlement with Constellation Energy Group Inc. over alleged
energy trading violations in  New York . Neither Constellation nor
Deutsche Bank admitted wrongdoing.  Wellinghoff has overseen the U.S. electric grid that is
increasingly relying on cheaper natural gas and abandoning coal-fired generating plants. The agency also is adopting protections
amid growing risks of cyber attacks against utility networks.  Cyberthreats Mounting  “The number of threats seems to be increasing,” he told
reporters in April, referring to potential cyber attacks by
groups from individuals to nation-states. Last year, the FERC
created an office to oversee infrastructure security.  Before being nominated to the FERC, Wellinghoff worked as
an energy attorney in  Nevada , serving as the state’s first
consumer advocate for utility customers. He was the main author
of a Nevada law to encourage the use of renewable energy,
according to the FERC’s website.  At the U.S. agency, Wellinghoff pushed for “demand
response” technologies, which encourage consumers to cut energy
use when supplies are limited. While chairman, the regulator
approved a major rule to encourage investment in high-voltage
 power lines .  Wellinghoff led conversations to ease differences between
regional and national regulators on various issues, Philip
Jones, president of the National Association of Regulatory
Utility Commissioners, said in a statement.  “Although we have had our disagreements, as there is
always a natural tension between state and federal governments,
we utilized our collaborative dialogues to maintain a positive
relationship,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  