-- U.S. Hitting Iran Stirs Less Strife Than Israeli Attack
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-05-29T13:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/u-s-hitting-iran-stirs-less-strife-than-israeli-attack.html
U.S. air strikes against Iranian
nuclear research and production facilities, if warranted, would
result in fewer political repercussions than Israeli attacks,
according to an analysis by a former member of the U.S. Joint
Chiefs of Staff.  A U.S. military action carries other consequences, such as
making it harder for America to negotiate with  Iran  and to keep
continued sanctions on Iran, according to a  “policy note”  co-written by retired Marine Corps General James Cartwright, a
former vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs.  Israeli strikes “would almost certainly not enjoy the same
international support as a U.S. strike,” Cartwright wrote in
the note, released today by the Washington Institute For Near
East Policy. Cartwright wrote the piece with Amos Yadlin, a
former chief of Israeli defense intelligence.  In considering whether  Israel  or the U.S. should carry out
strikes, either option poses it own set of potential military,
political and diplomatic drawbacks, they wrote.  The publication, in the form of answers to 10 questions
that U.S. and Israeli leaders might pose, assesses the
effectiveness and impact of conventional weapons strikes to
derail Iran’s program. Cartwright, who retired in August 2011,
was involved in U.S.-Iranian contingency planning at the
Pentagon.  Significantly, he and Yadlin wrote, even though military
strikes would only temporarily derail  Iran’s nuclear program ,
action by Israel could “topple the international regime of
export controls and sanctions” that President  Barack Obama 
“has so carefully cobbled together.”  Strict Sanctions  “Without strict sanctions in place” to prevent the re-importation of nuclear material, they wrote, it may be only “a
matter of years before the regime reconstitutes the program --
this time entirely bunkered underground to protect against
future strikes.”  U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  said in March there remains
“time and space” for diplomacy aimed at averting military
action to prevent Iran from becoming a nuclear weapons power.  Still, pressure on Obama’s administration to move toward
military action is growing as Iran advances its uranium
enrichment capabilities and U.S. lawmakers, Israel and Persian
Gulf allies press for results.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  on March 5 said
negotiating time is “finite.”  “The clock is ticking and the president has made that
clear,” Kerry said.  The Pentagon is pursuing “serious contingency planning” -
- along with the administration’s strategy of “tough-minded”
and “crippling” sanctions -- “with the objective of
preventing Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon,” Defense
Secretary Chuck Hagel said in written answers to the Senate
Armed Services Committee prior to his confirmation.  “If Washington wants to avoid getting bogged down in
another war in a Muslim country,” Cartwright and Yadlin wrote
that any U.S. strike “must be geared solely toward stopping
Iran’s nuclear efforts, not regime change or conquest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  