-- U.S. Lifts Iran Sanctions on Laptops, Mobile Phones
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-05-30T20:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/u-s-to-ease-iran-sanctions-on-laptops-mobile-phones.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration lifted U.S. trade sanctions that bar sales of
consumer communications equipment and software to ordinary
Iranians.  The policy shift was announced today by the U.S. State and
Treasury departments, which administer the sanctions imposed on
such consumer electronics since 1992. The Treasury Department is
issuing what’s known as a general  license , permitting sales to
non-government consumers involving U.S. hardware such as mobile
telephones and  laptop computers , and software such as antivirus
programs.  The change is intended to help Iranians communicate through
social media, text messaging and mobile-phone videos in order to
overcome some of the media and communications restrictions
imposed by Iranian authorities. Due to U.S. sanctions, Iranians
have turned to black-market-supplied and non-U.S. technology.  The action “aims to empower the Iranian people as their
government intensifies its efforts to stifle their access to
information,” according to a Treasury Department statement.  The products covered by the general license issued today
include mobile phones, satellite phones and broadband hardware,
modems, network interface cards, routers, WiFi access points,
laptop computers, tablets, disk drives, data storage devices,
anti-virus and anti-tracking software, online store
applications, virtual private networks, anti-censorship tools,
and fee-based personal communications tools including voice,
text, video, voice-over-IP telephony, and video chat.  Countering Crackdown  “The U.S. is taking steps to ensure that, as Iran’s
government cracks down on Internet access and SMS, sanctions
will no longer block cellphones, software and hardware,”
according to Jamal Abdi, a spokesman for the National Iranian
American Council, a nonprofit group based in  Washington . SMS is
an abbreviation for short message service text messaging.  Internet social-media sites such as  Facebook.com (FB) ,
Twitter.com and YouTube.com have become vital for activists, as
the Arab Spring uprisings demonstrated.  “Providing the democracy movement in Iran with access to
the latest social-media organizing tools will strengthen their
efforts to bring about positive change to a government that
fears information it can’t control,” Representative Jim Moran,
a Virginia Democrat who has sought such action, said in an e-mailed statement today.  ‘Malign’ Blocking  The U.S. has supported attempts to boost democratic
movements and stepped up efforts to stop regimes such as those
in Iran and  Syria  from blocking social media through what Obama
has called the “malign use of technology.”  In November, the administration imposed sanctions on
Iranian officials -- including the nation’s communications
minister -- and government agencies for blocking  Internet
access , mobile-phone lines and satellite-television channels to
stifle free speech.  The Treasury named today additional individuals and
entities who are “contributing to serious human rights abuses
committed by the Iranian regime, including through the use of
communications technology to silence and intimidate the Iranian
people.” The State Department issued visa restrictions on about
60 Iranian officials linked to human rights abuses.  New Sanctions  Those designated include the Committee to Determine
Instances of Criminal Content, the government entity charged
with filtering the flow of information to the Iranian people, as
well as Asghar Mir-Hejazi, the deputy chief of staff to Supreme
Leader Ali Khamenei, who “has used his influence behind the
scenes to empower elements from  Iran ’s intelligence services in
carrying out violent crackdowns against the Iranian people.”  The decision to lift some sanctions runs counter to recent
actions in which the U.S. has generally tightened financial and
trade restrictions on Iran as part of an international effort to
persuade the regime in Tehran to give up activities that could
lead to making nuclear weapons.  The National Iranian American Council has been urging the
U.S. to aid ordinary Iranians and to assist the reform movement
in the Persian Gulf country by ending the communications-equipment sanctions, making it easier and less costly to obtain
such gear.  Green Movement  “The sanctions were felt most acutely four years ago, at
the height of Iran’s green movement protests,” the group said
in a statement. “The world was galvanized by cell-phone videos
and reports of abuses coming from inside of Iran, and SMS and
other communications tools were being used to help organize
massive demonstrations. Yet all of those tools were under U.S.
sanctions.”  The restrictions have blocked companies from selling
laptops,  mobile phones  or modems to Iranians, which has fueled a
black market for the goods. They also have blocked services such
as satellite-based Internet access, website hosting and virtual
private networks for Iranian citizens, according to the group.  Under the Iran-Iraq Arms Non-Proliferation Act of 1992, the
president may waive the requirement to impose certain sanctions
if it is “essential to the national interest” of the U.S. This
waiver authority has since been delegated to the under secretary
of state for  arms control  and international security.  The administration previously eased some restrictions on
mass-market software needed for Internet communications after
noting that the sanctions were having an “unintended chilling
effect” on the ability of companies such as Redmond,
Washington-based  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , based in
 Mountain View ,  California , to continue providing essential
communications tools to ordinary Iranians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Meszoly at 
 rmeszoly@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  