-- U.S. Point Man on Syria Ford Said Stepping Down in July
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-05-29T20:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/u-s-point-man-on-syria-ford-said-stepping-down-in-july.html
Robert Ford , who has been the U.S.
point person on efforts to organize the Syrian opposition, plans
to step down in July after two years of work on the issue.  Ford, the U.S. ambassador in Damascus until violence there
forced him to relocate to Washington, is due for a job transfer
and is exhausted, according to a State Department official who
wasn’t authorized to speak on the record.  Ford’s departure doesn’t signal any shift in U.S. policy
toward Syria, said a second administration official responsible
for Mideast policy who asked not to be identified discussing
diplomatic matters.  Ford, a career diplomat and Denver native, is known as one
of the State Department’s most knowledgeable authorities on the
Arab world and speaks five languages. He was the first
ambassador the U.S. had sent to Syria in five years when
President  Barack Obama  nominated him in 2010. He was confirmed
in 2011.  Ford’s departure isn’t surprising in a department where
assignments change every few years, the State Department
official said. Ford is now in Turkey, trying to help the
fractious opposition diversify its membership.  The administration’s efforts to unify the various groups
opposing Syrian President Bashar al-Assad have been stymied by
infighting and power squabbles among the groups.  It’s not known who will replace Ford.  The current Ambassador to  Egypt ,  Anne Patterson , is
expected to be nominated as the State Department’s next
Assistant Secretary of Near Eastern Affairs, a third official
said. Patterson previously held a critical diplomatic post
representing the U.S. in  Pakistan  from July 2007 to October
2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  