-- Hulu International Chief Quits Ahead of Potential Sale
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-05-30T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/hulu-international-chief-quits-ahead-of-potential-sale.html
Hulu LLC’s Johannes Larcher resigned
as head of international operations for the online video
service, whose owners are weighing offers for the company.  Larcher, a senior vice president who led Hulu’s 2011
expansion into Japan, resigned this month, the company said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. Hulu hasn’t started service in
any other countries outside the U.S.  Hulu is losing senior executives as the company’s owners,
including  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and  News Corp. (NWSA) , move forward with an
auction. Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder Jason Kilar and
Rich Tom, Hulu’s chief technology officer, left at the end of
March. Last week Hulu received bids from at least seven suitors
including private equity firm  KKR & Co. (KKR) , media executive Peter Chernin and Yahoo! Inc., people said at the time.  Disney and News Corp., the controlling shareholders, each
with about a third of Hulu, are considering offers while also
deliberating whether one company should buy out the other.  Andy Forssell, the company’s senior vice president of
content, has been acting CEO since Kilar’s departure.  Larcher, a Fulbright Scholar, led the expansion of Overture
Services into 12 countries in Europe and Asia before the search
engine’s 2003 acquisition by Yahoo, according to an executive
 biography  on Hulu’s website.  Hulu’s service in  Japan  quadrupled the amount of content
available last year, the company said in a blog post in
December. The company’s service in that country, accessible from
more than 50 million Web-connected devices, drew three times the
volume of subscribers last year compared with 2011, the company
said.  Netflix Lag  Hulu’s revenue climbed 65 percent in 2012 to about $695
million. The company said it has more than 4 million paying
subscribers to its $8 a month service, according to a blog post.
Hulu lags behind  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s 36.3 million worldwide streaming
subscribers and faces competition from Amazon.com Inc. and
Redbox Instant, an online video service from  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and Coinstar Inc.  Formed by NBC Universal and Fox, Hulu offers viewers TV
shows online with fewer commercials. Disney became an investor
in 2009. Hulu Plus, started in 2010, offers more shows and
includes access on mobile devices, Web-linked TV sets and video-game consoles.  NBC parent  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  is barred from an operational or
board role under an agreement with federal regulators related to
its NBC Universal acquisition in January 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  