-- Hungary Central Bank Expands Funding Plan to Boost Growth
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-05-29T11:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/hungary-central-bank-expands-funding-plan-to-boost-growth.html
Hungary ’s central bank raised the
amount of interest-free funding to commercial banks by 50
percent to boost lending and invigorate economic growth after a
recession last year.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank will raise the total amount of
preferential loans to 750 billion forint ($3.4 billion) after
lenders bid for more than the 500 billion forint initially
offered, President  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said at a news conference in
Budapest today.  Central banks around the world are looking for ways beyond
interest rates to stimulate growth as borrowing costs approach
zero. Hungary’s policy makers yesterday cut their benchmark rate
to a record-low 4.5 percent. Last month they proposed the
Funding for Growth plan, modeled on the Bank of England’s
Funding for Lending Scheme, which seeks to increase loans to
small and mid-sized companies.  “Boosting the funding plan by 50 percent, in our
assessment, may realistically lead to a turnaround in lending
for micro, small, and medium-sized Hungarian companies,”
Matolcsy said.  The forint weakened 0.6 percent against the euro to 288.50
by 1:52 p.m. in Budapest after strengthening to 285.58
yesterday, the strongest since December. The currency rose 3.8
percent in the past month, the best performance among 31 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Credit, Conversion  The central bank will also offer 425 billion forint to
commercial lenders at zero percent interest, with the aim of
extending credit to small businesses at a cost of no more than
2.5 percent.  The MNB will also offer 325 billion forint to allow small
businesses to convert foreign-currency loans into forint at
market exchange rates. The cost of the forint loans will also be
no more than 2.5 percent.  The central bank initially offered 250 billion forint under
each part of the plan. Of Hungary’s 40 financial institutions,
36 are participating in the program, Matolcsy said.  OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, competes mostly
with units of international banks including Erste Group Bank AG,
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Bayerische
Landesbank AG,  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. (ISP)  The
central bank has said it will allocate the zero-rate funding to
help smaller domestic banks gain market share.  The central bank forecasts that the funding plan may boost
gross domestic product by between 0.2 percent to 0.5 percent by
the end of 2014, MNB Vice President Adam Balog said. The central
bank in March forecast a growth rate of 0.5 percent for this
year and 1.7 percent for 2014.  Rate Cuts  The funding plan complements the past 10 months’
consecutive quarter-point cuts in the benchmark interest rate.
Policy makers reduced the benchmark two-week deposit rate
yesterday to a record-low 4.5 percent from 4.75 percent and said
the outlook for inflation, at an almost 39-year low in April,
and for the economy pointed to further easing.  “I think that those may be right who see further room on a
rate-cut path that takes the Hungarian  interest rate  with
predictable and small steps to that neutral level which is
recognized by money markets,” Matolcsy said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  