-- UniCredit Sells Biggest Note Tied to Ireland’s Debt Since 1999
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-05-29T13:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/unicredit-sells-biggest-note-tied-to-ireland-s-debt-since-1999.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  sold the largest amount
of structured notes tied to Irish government debt since the
country joined Europe’s single currency.  Italy’s biggest bank raised 50 million euros ($64.4
million) last week from selling five-year credit-linked notes
that pay 2.2 percent, compared to 2.18 percent for sovereign
bonds with the same maturity, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The notes, which combine debt with derivatives, are
the second to reference Irish debt this year and the largest
recorded in data going back to 1999.  Investor confidence in Ireland is growing as it seeks to
become the first nation to leave a bailout program since
Europe’s debt crisis began. Irish government bonds rallied after
the region’s finance ministers agreed last month to help smooth
that exit by giving the country an extra seven years to repay
the loans it received in 2010.  “Ireland is attractive for investors hunting for yield
even though the spread over bunds is shrinking,” said Owen Callan, an analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Dublin, a primary
dealer in Irish government debt. “This is because it offers
decent returns but is less risky than some other peripheral
countries like Italy or Spain.”  Silvia Lamberti, a spokeswoman for UniCredit in Vienna,
declined to comment on the notes.  Yields on Ireland’s five-year bonds are holding near a 20-year low of  2.14 percent  reached last week. The extra cost of
borrowing over benchmark German bunds dropped to 166 basis
points today from a high of 692 a year earlier, Bloomberg data
show. That compares to a spread of 267 basis points for Spanish
5-year bonds and 249 basis points for similar-maturity Italian
debt.  Irish Recovery  “Ireland entered the crisis much earlier and more acutely
than every other country with the exception of  Greece , and after
having recapitalized its banks and significantly de-levered,
there is a feeling Ireland is now coming out the other side,”
said Callan.  Ireland’s bailout program remains on track and its economy
is continuing to recover, according to a May 9 statement from
its international creditors.  BNP Paribas SA sold the only other structured notes tied to
Irish debt this year, issuing 2 million euros of seven-year
securities on Jan. 23, Bloomberg data show. The notes were tied
to Ireland’s 4.5 percent bonds due April 2020.  Credit-linked notes can have higher yields and tailored
maturities that may not be available in the bond market.
Investors suffer losses in the event of a default by the bank
issuing the securities or the linked entity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  