-- Tunisia Intervenes to Lift Dinar From Record Low
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 2013-05-29T23:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/tunisia-intervenes-to-lift-dinar-from-record-low.html
Tunisia ’s central bank said it
intervened in the country’s foreign exchange market this month
to support the local dinar after it fell to a record low.  The North African country’s regulator sold the equivalent
of 863 million dinars ($524 million) to the market in the week
to May 17, it said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The dinar
advanced 0.8 percent to 1.6475 a dollar as of 5:32 p.m. in the
capital Tunis, the highest level on a closing basis in three
weeks, according to BNP Paribas MENA prices on Bloomberg.  The central bank said it was forced to step in on demand
from mobile phone operator Tunisiana and state-owned energy and
oil companies, the statement said. The dinar has slid 13 percent
since a popular revolt ended Zine El Abidine Ben Ali’s 24 years
of rule more than two years ago, damping economic growth and
prompting the government to seek an International Monetary Fund
loan.  “Over the past couple of months, the authorities appear to
have loosened their grip on the dinar,”  Neil Shearing ,  William Jackson  and Jason Tuvey, economists at London-based Capital
Economics Ltd., wrote in a report yesterday. The decision is a
result of low foreign currency reserves and Tunisia’s signing of
a $1.75 billion IMF agreement last month, “a condition of which
is likely to include greater exchange rate flexibility,” they
said.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Tunisia’s government
issuer ratings to Ba2 from Ba1 late yesterday. The downgrade
reflects the country’s “persistent political uncertainty and
risk of instability,” undercapitalized government-owned banks,
and the pressures on Tunisia’s balance of payments and
government finances, Moody’s analysts wrote in a statement.  The
outlook was set at negative.  ‘Regular Intervention’  Tunisia’s foreign reserves were the equivalent of 10.5
billion dinars as of May 15, enough to cover 96 days of imports,
the central bank said. That’s up from 9.6 billion dinars in
November which covered 91 days of imports. That compares with
12.6 billion dinars in January 2011 when Ben Ali was ousted.  The central bank has sold the foreign currency equivalent
of 1.887 billion dinars since the start of the year, or about 33
percent of total foreign  currency trading , it said in the
statement dated May 17. It performed “regular intervention
operations” since the start of the year “to pump liquidity
into the foreign exchange market in accordance with its
corrective role,” the regulator said.  The dinar has gained 1.3 percent since hitting a record low
1.6685 a dollar on May 14. Still, the currency’s 5.6 percent
drop this year makes it the second-worst performer in the  Middle
East  behind the Egyptian pound.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Jihen Laghmari in Cairo at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  