-- Universal Says Robinsons Talks on Casino Put on Hold
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-05-29T08:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/universal-says-robinsons-talks-on-casino-put-on-hold.html
Universal (6425)  Entertainment Corp. said
talks with Philippine billionaire John Gokongwei’s  Robinsons
Land Corp. (RLC)  to jointly build a casino in Manila were put on hold.  Universal, controlled by Japanese pachinko billionaire
Kazuo Okada, will consider developing a casino in the
 Philippines  on its own or with other partners, the Tokyo-based
company said today in a statement.  Robinsons Land, the Manila-based developer, said in
December that it had signed a preliminary agreement with
Universal for the project. Okada faces a U.S. criminal
investigation related to his Philippine casino project, with the
U.S. asking to intervene in a lawsuit by  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) 
accusing Okada of making improper payments to Philippine
gambling regulators.  “We put the talks with  Robinsons Land  on hold,” said
Nobuyuki Horiuchi, Universal spokesman. “We will continue to
work on the casino project in the Philippines with other
partners or by ourselves.”  Robinsons fell as much as 3.9 percent before paring the
decline to 1.8 percent, the biggest drop in almost two weeks, to
24 pesos at the close in Manila trading. Universal fell 0.6
percent to 2,032 yen at the close in Tokyo.  The two companies “have decided not to pursue discussions
between them concerning the proposed development,” Robinsons
Land President Frederick Go said today in a mobile phone
message.  Okada, who amassed a fortune selling machines for Japanese
pachinko parlors, won one of four provisional gaming licenses
awarded for the  Manila  casino hub in 2008. He has sought to
expand in the Southeast Asian nation, where the government is
setting up a casino center that would compete with Macau, the
world’s biggest gaming hub, to draw gamblers and tourists from
China.  Okada has denied the Wynn allegations of improper payments
to Philippine gambling regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  