-- Uralkali Cuts Potash Spot Sales in China to Boost Contract Price
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-05-29T12:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/uralkali-cuts-potash-spot-sales-in-china-to-boost-contract-price.html
OAO Uralkali, the world’s biggest
potash producer, has cut shipments to  China  by rail to reduce
sales on the  spot market  and strengthen its hand in price
negotiations for its next contract with the country.  “We cut our railway shipments to China from an average of
150,000 tons a month to about 50,000 tons to help to get a more
balanced market,” Chief Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner
told reporters today in Moscow.  China’s stockpiles have grown to about 4 million metric
tons, and the domestic price for the fertilizer remains low,
Baumgertner said. Producers including Uralkali have signed
first-half supply agreements at a discount to previous
contracts. Uralkali is the only overseas potash supplier with
rail links to China, enabling it to sell on the spot market.  Uralkali won’t sign a new contract for the third quarter
and plans instead to wait until November, when it expects to get
a premium, Baumgertner said. Signing in September or October may
mean the current price, of $400-a-ton, would roll over into the
next accord, he said.  Belarusian Potash Co., which trades the nutrient for
Uralkali and Belaruskali, signed an accord with China in January
for first-half shipments, agreeing to a $70-a-ton discount on
the previous price of $470. Canpotex Ltd., which exports potash
for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., Mosaic Co. and  Agrium
Inc (AGU) , reached a similar deal in December.  Jansen Project  Uralkali is likely to boost rail shipments given that it
won’t have a contract with China in the second half, VTB
Capital’s analyst Elena Sakhnova and Raiffeisen Bank’s
Konstantin Yuminov said last week.  If North American producers sign a deal in the Northern
Hemisphere summer, the new contract price will be at a discount
to the current contract price, Baumgertner predicted.  Uralkali estimates 2013 potash market volumes to be at 53
million tons to 54 million tons and sees the global market
balanced until 2018 when new projects may start up.  “The main threat to the market now is coming from  BHP
Billiton ’s” Jansen project, Baumgertner said. Should it go
ahead as planned, Uralkali may shelve its own green-field
projects, he said.  BHP continues to review Jansen and no decision has been
made,  Andrew Mackenzie , BHP’s CEO, said on May 14.  Uralkali sees 2013 output of about 9.5 million tons to 10.5
million tons depending on the situation in the Chinese market,
Baumgertner said. The company has a more optimistic outlook for
 India  and expects potash consumption to grow to 4 million tons
this year from about 3.5 million tons last year, with half
supplied by Belarusian Potash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  