-- Velvet Underground Settles Warhol Suit Over Banana Design
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-05-29T21:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/velvet-underground-settles-warhol-suit-over-banana-design.html
The  Velvet Underground  settled a
lawsuit claiming that the  Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual
Arts  infringed a trademark for the banana design that appeared
on the cover of one of the band’s albums.  U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan said in an order today in
 Manhattan  that the case has been discontinued.  “The parties have reached a confidential agreement to
settle the case,” Joshua Paul, a lawyer for the Warhol
Foundation, said in a letter yesterday to the judge. Paul
declined to comment further on the settlement. Christopher
Whent, a lawyer for the band, didn’t respond to messages seeking
comment on the settlement.  The foundation, which licenses merchandise based on
Warhol’s designs, said that it owned the rights to the banana
design he created for the band’s first commercial album. The
Velvet Underground and its founders,  Lou Reed  and John Cale,
sued the foundation in January 2012, claiming trademark rights
to the banana design, which they said had become a “symbol,
truly an icon” of the group.  The album, which was a commercial failure at the time of
its release, has since been lauded by critics as one of the most
influential rock recordings. It was released by MGM’s Verve
Records, whose catalog was acquired by  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal
Music Group .  Warhol Collaboration  The band, which formed in 1965 and remained active until
about 1972, forged an artistic collaboration with Warhol. He
designed the cover of the 1967 album “The Velvet Underground
and Nico” using an illustration of a banana taken from an
advertisement, according to court papers. Warhol died in 1987.  A copyright for the banana design was also at issue in the
suit. The Warhol Foundation said it had agreed under a covenant
with the band to not file any legal action against it over the
copyright for the design.  The band nevertheless asked the court for a declaratory
judgment that the foundation had no copyright interest in the
design. The band said no copyright filing was made for the
design and the ad from which it derived was in the public domain
and ineligible for copyright protection.  Nathan denied the motion for the declaratory judgment in
September, saying that the covenant between the band and the
foundation eliminated any controversy over the copyright.  Warhol’s copyrighted works have a market value estimated at
more than $120 million and the foundation has earned more than
$2.5 million a year from licensing the designs, according to
court papers.  The case is Velvet Underground v. Andy Warhol Foundation
for the Visual Arts, 12-0201, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  