-- Vietnam Stock Inflows at 5-Year High on Growth: Southeast Asia
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-30T07:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/vietnam-stock-inflows-at-5-year-high-on-growth-southeast-asia.html
International investors are buying
the most Vietnamese stocks in five years, lured by Southeast
Asia’s cheapest valuations and government efforts to bolster
 economic growth . The benchmark index rose the most in Asia to a
27-month high today.  Overseas funds bought a net $253 million of Vietnamese
stocks this year to May 29, the biggest year-to-date purchases
since 2008, speculating corporate  profits  will grow for the
first time since 2010 as inflation eases and borrowing costs
decline, data compiled by Bloomberg show. More foreigners opened
Vietnamese equity trading accounts in the first four months of
this year than the whole of 2012, data from the  Vietnam
Securities Depository  show.  Vietnam ’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  has gained 26 percent this year, making
it Southeast Asia’s best performing benchmark gauge, as the
central bank cut interest rates this month for an eighth time
since the start of 2012 and the government approved the
formation of a debt asset management company to soak up banks’
bad loans that were hampering growth. Even after the rally, the
MSCI Vietnam Index  trades  for 13.5 times projected 12-month
earnings, 17 percent lower than the average ratio for the
region’s five biggest markets.  “We like Vietnam as it has some core secular drivers
supporting both the economy and the equity market in the long
run,” Samir Shah, an investment manager at Advance Emerging
Capital Ltd. in  London , wrote in an e-mail on May 28. “Setting
up a ‘bad bank’ will loosen the credit cycle and stimulate
growth. Vietnam has already seen a cut in rates and we should
expect more.”  Earnings Growth  The central bank has reduced policy interest rates by 800
basis points since March 2012.  The VN Index climbed 1.2 percent today to close at 521.45,
the highest level since Feb. 9, 2011. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index slumped 1.7 percent at 3:28 p.m. Hong Kong time, heading
for the lowest close since April 9.  As of April 30, 16,238 foreign investors were granted
Vietnam stock trading accounts, compared with 16,001 in the
whole of 2012, according to data from the  Vietnam Securities
Depository , which offers trading support services.  Earnings of companies in the MSCI Vietnam Index will rise
16 percent this year, the first increase since 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Foreign investors’ interest toward Vietnam is the
strongest since I’ve been here,” Michael Kokalari, Ho Chi Minh
City-based head of research at Maybank Kim Eng Securities Inc.,
Vietnam’s sixth-largest brokerage, said in a phone interview on
May 29. “We are overwhelmed with visitors and calls.”  Growth Forecasts  The VN Index will climb to 550 by the end of this year, a
5.4 percent advance from today’s close, and is poised for “a
bigger year next year,” Kokalari said. The gauge has advanced
9.9 percent in May, heading for the best monthly gain since
January. The index is still less than half its March 2007 peak
of 1,170.67.  The reluctance of banks to lend may result in economic
growth of less than 6 percent for a third straight year, based
on forecasts from the International Monetary Fund and the World
Bank. While the government estimates economic growth will
quicken to 5.5 percent from 5 percent in 2012, that’s still
lower than  average  of 7.1 percent a year since 1990, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Concerns among some investors about corporate governance in
Vietnam remain. Last year, eight former executives of Vietnam
Shipbuilding Industry Corp. and its units were sent to prison
for economic mismanagement, two senior banking officials were
arrested and the former chairman of Vietnam National Shipping
Lines was investigated for falsifying contracts, part of moves
to hold executives accountable for mismanagement at state-owned
companies.  Bad Loans  “People are looking at Vietnam as it’s been a disastrous
market,” Hugh Young, a managing director at Aberdeen Asset
Management Asia Ltd. in  Singapore , said in a phone interview on
May 28. “Everyone wants to put money there and people will put
money there; whether they know what they’re doing or not is
another matter. Vietnamese companies need to convince people
that they can treat shareholders properly and fairly, and that
the law works.”  Non-performing loans reported by commercial lenders stood
at 4.51 percent at the end of March, Deputy Prime Minister
Nguyen Xuan Phuc told the National Assembly on May 20. That
compared with a central bank estimate of 7.8 percent at the end
of last year. Market participants and credit rating companies
estimate bad debt may be between 10 percent and 20 percent,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung approved on May 22 the
formation of the asset management company to address bad loans
in the banking system and boost sluggish credit growth.  Bank Clean-up  Moves to clean up banks will reduce bad-debt ratios to less
than 5 percent of total loans at the end of this year, central
bank Deputy Governor Nguyen Dong Tien said on May 21. Prime
Minister Dung may also approve next month a central bank
proposal to raise the caps for foreign investment in local
lenders as an additional measure to help weak financial
institutions, Tien said.  “If the debt-asset management company works properly and
the government can point things in the right direction as they
have been doing, we will see another rally in the market,” Marc Djandji, a partner at the Asean Strategy Group in Ho Chi Minh
City, said in a May 20 interview.  Improving Health  Vietnam’s economy is showing signs of improving health.
 Inflation (VNCPIYOY)  slowed to 6.36 percent in May, the least since August
2012, and exports climbed 15 percent in the first five months
from last year. The central bank announced this month a $1.4
billion support package to assist home buyers and developers
with subsidized loans for affordable housing. That will help
clear an estimated $2 billion overhang of finished and unsold
properties, according to Kokalari.  The government also plans to start a pilot program to raise
the 49 percent foreign ownership limit for some companies, the
State Securities Commission said in January.  “There are no indications why foreign funds would stop
buying, as valuations are still attractive,” Andy Ho, who helps
oversee about $1.5 billion in assets at VinaCapital Investment
Management Ltd., the country’s largest fund manager, said in
phone interview from Ho Chi Minh City on May 27. “The macro
economy is stabilizing and will turn very positive in six to 12
months.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  