-- Want to Buy a Doctorate? Russia Has a Deal for You
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-05-29T14:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/want-to-buy-a-doctorate-russia-has-a-deal-for-you.html
Corruption in  Russia  is like a hydra
that constantly grows new heads to replace severed ones. Just
ask the people trying to reform the country’s college-admissions
system.  Getting a prestigious university education in Russia has
long been largely a matter of money. At the most sought-after
institutions, which are all state-owned, the government covers
tuition for a certain number of students. Until recently,
competitors for the coveted “free” slots took written and oral
entrance exams. The grading was arbitrary, giving unscrupulous
admissions officers the power to extract bribes in return for
high scores.  That all changed in 2008, when the government introduced
mandatory standardized tests, Russia’s equivalent of the SAT,
and instructed colleges to give government-financed slots to
students with the highest scores. Educators were not pleased.
Teachers complained that cramming for multiple choice tests took
the soul and creativity out of learning and destroyed the Soviet
education system’s edge in the sciences. The Communist Party
demanded that the new test, known as the EGE, be abolished.  The new system has proved no less dysfunctional than the
old -- a reality that was on full display this week, when
Russian high-school graduates took the first of this year’s EGE.
The state-controlled RIA Novosti news service, citing the
education ministry,  reported  that there were at least 30 leaks
of correct answers on the Internet before the tests were done.
Interfax news agency reported that the social network Vkontakte,
at the request of authorities,  had to block  72 communities with
a total of 1.5 million subscribers where answers were published
ahead of time.  Russia stretches across nine time zones, giving test-takers
from the Far East plenty of time to help their cheating peers in
Central and Western Russia by publishing photos of their papers.
Test-takers also reported that answer sheets could easily be
obtained the day before the exam.  “Some bought them at 500 rubles ($16) a pop, some got them
for free from friends,” opposition activist Roman Dobrokhotov
 wrote  on Facebook. “Essentially the EGE has lost all meaning.”
He quoted one graduate as saying that eight out of ten test-takers in his class had had access to answers.  After the first test, a joke went viral on social networks:
“Responding to the publication of EGE answers on the internet,
officials decided that the questions would be the same across
all time zones, but the answers would be different.” This is
typical Russian gallows humor, reserved for situations that may
be ridiculous but are by no means funny.  The scandal was serious enough for Prime Minister Dmitri Medvedev to react. The publication of answers “is enough reason
for the exam commission to annul EGE results for those who do
this,” RIA Novosti  quoted  Medvedev as saying. “Sometimes one has
to regret that we don’t have just one time zone like some of the
neighboring countries.”  Vladimir Zhirinovsky , head of the ultranationalist LDPR
party,  wrote  on Twitter: “EGE irregularities again. The LDPR has
long demanded its abolition. Testing knowledge in this way is
inefficient and it creates opportunities for corruption.”  Medvedev, a longtime EGE proponent, admitted last year that
the test was not perfect after his son Ilya took it -- and, with
359 points out of 400, earned a “free” slot at the prestigious
Moscow State Institute of Foreign Relations. “My perception of
the EGE is changing,” the RBC newspaper  quoted  Medvedev as
saying. “When you experience it yourself, you see all the
shortcomings and holes in any system.” Medvedev said he was
convinced a traditional oral exam was needed to complement the
standard tests.  While the EGE makes it more difficult for universities to
admit unqualified candidates, it creates opportunities for graft
in the high school system. Teachers are often willing, for a
fee, to turn a blind eye to graduates using mobile phones during
the exam. Bureaucrats in the education ministry system who have
access to answers can be bribed to leak them. Test developers at
the state-owned research institute FIPI have openly, under their
own names, published test preparation books and received
royalties for them.  In the Caucasus Mountains republic of Dagestan, where
31,000 people are taking the tests this year, EGE cheating has
grown into a cottage industry. The website PublicPost has
 reported  that high school students from other regions, including
Moscow, have been enrolling in Dagestan schools for their final
year so they can take the tests on their own terms. It is
reportedly cheaper to game the test in village schools than in
the regional capital of Makhachkala.  “In Makhachkala they charge 15,000 rubles ($480) to take
the exam paper out of class and 20,000 to 25,000 to bring it
back in,” New Region quoted Patimat Alhasova, the mother of a
local graduate, as saying. “And I’m not even counting what you
have to pay those who fill in the answers. In total, the four
tests my son is taking will cost us about 200,000.”  Local journalist Magomed Magomedov, who served as a
volunteer observer during the Russian language test, told
PublicPost that students were openly photographing test sheets
and using phones. Russia’s domestic counterintelligence agency,
the FSB, was called in to monitor the tests, which have yielded
surprisingly high scores in Dagestan year after year. Magomedov
said that one FSB officer told him: “If you start taking phones
away from graduates, they will all have to be kicked out, and
that would start a revolution in the entire republic.”  Fixing the system is particularly difficult in a country
where the problem goes straight to the top. College
administrators sometimes sell doctorates outright. Opposition
bloggers have uncovered plagiarized passages in the doctoral
theses of a number of influential lawmakers, including
Zhirinovsky and some ranking members of the ruling United Russia
party. One parliament deputy charged with plagiarism, Vladimir
Burmatov, had to resign as deputy chairman of the parliament’s
education committee.  This week, Igor Fedyukin, a deputy education minister who
had been fighting the widespread practice of issuing unearned
doctorates to politicians and wealthy businessmen,  resigned  “to
reduce pressure on the ministry.” Early this year, a commission
headed by Fedyukin uncovered “a fake thesis factory” at a Moscow
college. Burmatov rejoiced at Fedyukin’s resignation: “It is the
correct decision to fire the most incompetent of the deputy
ministers.”  As columnist Semen Novoprudsky  put it  in the newspaper
 Novaya Gazeta : “It is stupid to accuse kids of cheating on the
EGE in a nation where officials cheat on their doctoral theses.”  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 