-- Warburg to Invest Up to $325 Million in Vietnam Vingroup
-- B y   J o h n   B o u d r e a u .   E d i t o r s :   J a m e s   G u n s a l u s
-- 2013-05-29T07:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/warburg-to-invest-up-to-325-million-in-vietnam-vingroup.html
Warburg Pincus LLC, the private-equity owner of Neiman Marcus Group Inc., will lead a consortium
to invest as much as $325 million in  Vietnam ’s Vingroup Joint
Stock Co., the firm’s first Southeast Asia deal since 2010.  The group will spend $200 million for about 20 percent of
the Hanoi-based company’s Vincom Retail property unit, Vingroup
said in a statement. The New York-based firm may invest an
additional $100 million, Vietnam’s largest shopping mall owner
said.  Warburg Pincus, which raised $11.2 billion in May, joins a
wave of private-equity firms betting on the country’s emerging
middle class and real estate market recovery. The deal rivals
KKR & Co.’s $359 million investment in a unit of Masan Group
Corp. in January and will help Vingroup accelerate planned
shopping mall developments.  “There’s very good chemistry between the two companies,”
Le Thi Thu Thuy, Vingroup’s chief executive officer, said in an
interview. “We want to leverage Warburg-Pincus’ experience and
take Vingroup to the next level. We want to internationalize
this company.”  Vingroup plans to offer shares in  Singapore  this year and
Warburg Pincus will invest as much as $25 million as part of
today’s agreement, she said. Vingroup also plans an
international bond sale, she said, without giving a time frame.  Warburg Pincus will gain positions on Vingroup’s board of
directors as part of today’s transaction, according to the
statement.  KKR Deal  A fifth of private-equity investors surveyed in a Coller
Capital report in December said they are turning to emerging
Asian markets including Vietnam and  Indonesia  as investments in
 China  become risker.  KKR in January more than doubled its stake in Masan
Consumer Corp., a Vietnamese fish sauce maker, making it the
country’s largest private-equity deal. TPG Capital, the private-equity firm run by David Bonderman and James Coulter, said in
March it was looking for its first Vietnam investment in nearly
four years.  Warburg Pincus’s only investment in Southeast Asia was in
Singapore’s Quest, an engineering services company, in 2010,
according to its  website . 