-- Weil, Cravath, Fried Frank, Skadden: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-05-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/weil-cravath-fried-frank-skadden-business-of-law.html
Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP advised
 Fidelity National Financial Inc. (FNF) , the largest U.S. title
insurer, on an agreement to buy its former unit,  Lender
Processing Services Inc. (LPS)  Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP advised
LPS.  Weil’s deal team was led by partner Michael Aiello who is
chairman of Weil’s corporate department. Additional partners
include: Angela Fontana and Allison Liff, banking; Jennifer Bensch,  capital markets ; and Marc Silberberg, tax.  Cravath partners advising LPS included Robert I. Townsend III and Damien R. Zoubek, mergers and acquisitions; Eric W. Hilfers, executive compensation and benefits; Michael L. Schler,
tax; and Peter T. Barbur, antitrust.  Cooley LLP advised Fidelity National as well. Partners on
the deal included Tom Hopkins,  Ian Smith  and Lesse Castleberry.  Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP represented
Goldman Sachs as financial adviser to Lender Processing Services
Inc. on the deal. The Fried Frank team included corporate
partners Abigail Bomba and Philip Richter.  The cash-and-stock deal, designed to let Fidelity National
expand in the business of providing and analyzing mortgage data,
values LPS at $33.25 a common share, or about $2.9 billion, the
Jacksonville, Florida-based company said yesterday in a
statement. LPS, also based in Jacksonville, closed at $29.11 on
May 22, before it was first reported that Fidelity National was
in talks to acquire the firm.  Fidelity National is expanding in housing-linked businesses
amid a recovery in the U.S. real estate market. LPS has
technology that’s used by lenders throughout the mortgage
process, from origination to foreclosure.  The transaction will boost  earnings  by 11 percent compared
with 2012, Foley said. After the deal is completed, Fidelity
National will combine its ServiceLink unit with LPS in a new
holding company and sell a 19 percent stake in that business to
 Thomas H. Lee Partners  for $381 million, according to the
statement.  For more, click here.  Skadden, Cleary Advise on Valeant Purchase of Bausch & Lomb  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is advising
 Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)  on its $8.7 billion
purchase of Bausch & Lomb Holdings Inc., the eye-care company
owned by Warburg Pincus LLC. The deal positions Canada’s largest
drugmaker to compete globally in the growing, specialized
ophthalmology market. Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton LLP is
representing Bausch & Lomb. Stikeman Elliott LLP is Canadian
counsel for Bausch while Canadian firm Osler, Hoskin & Harcourt
LLP is advising Valeant.  Leading the Skadden team are mergers and acquisitions
partners Stephen Arcano, Marie Gibson and Jeffrey Brill. Additional partners include Robert Copen, banking;
Richard Aftanas, corporate finance;  Steven Sunshine  on antitrust
and competition; David Rievman tax; Erica Schohn, executive
compensation and benefits; and Matthew Zisk, intellectual
property and technology.  The core Cleary Gottlieb team partners include  Robert Davis 
and David Leinwand, corporate matters; Meme Peponis, financing;
and Michael Albano, employee benefits issues.  Stikeman’s legal team includes partners: John Leopold and
Benoit Dubord, corporate and securities; Marie-Andrée Beaudry,
tax; and Jeffrey Brown, regulatory.  The Osler team on this deal included partners Clay Horner,
Doug Bryce, Firoz Ahmed and Peter Glossop.  The deal’s value includes $4.2 billion that Valeant will
use to pay off Bausch & Lomb debt, the companies said in a
statement. Bausch & Lomb, bought by Warburg in a 2007 leveraged
buyout, filed in March for an initial public offering after an
earlier effort to sell itself for at least $10 billion stalled,
people familiar with the matter said at the time.  The Bausch & Lomb deal is the largest of 15 publicly
announced  acquisitions  for Montreal-based Valeant since it was
created in a 2010 merger of its U.S. predecessor and Canada’s
Biovail Corp. Chief Executive Officer Mike Pearson’s strategy
has been to mix large and small deals and focus on areas such as
dermatology and eye care.  Valeant will finance the deal with about $1.5 billion to $2
billion in new equity and debt secured from Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., the companies said in the statement.  For more, click here.  Teco Energy Agrees to Buy New Mexico Gas for $950 Million  Teco Energy Inc. (TE)  agreed to buy New Mexico Gas Co. from
Continental Energy Systems LLC for $950 million, including the
assumption of $200 million in debt. Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher & Flop LLP and Cuddy & McCarthy LLP are Teco’s legal
advisers. Cravath Swaine & Moore LLP advised Continental.  The Skadden team includes corporate partner Sheldon Adler;
tax partner Sean Shimamoto; executive compensation and benefits
partner Neil Leff; intellectual property and technology partner
Bruce Goldner; corporate finance partner Dwight Yoo; investment
management partner Lawrence Frishman and labor and
employment partner  David Schwartz .  The Cravath team included partners: Andrew R. Thompson and
Richard Hall, mergers and acquisitions; J. Leonard Teti II, tax;
and Jennifer S. Conway, executive compensation and benefits.  New Mexico Gas serves about 509,000 customers in the state,
Tampa, Florida-based Teco said in a statement yesterday. The
transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2014.  “We are adding 50 percent to our customer base in a single
transaction, and we expect it to provide opportunities for
future growth in an attractive Sunbelt location,” Teco Chief
Executive Officer John Ramil said in the statement. “It will
increase the percentage of earnings from regulated operations
and reduce earnings volatility.”  News  Singapore Law Professor Convicted of Sex-for-Grades Graft  National University of Singapore  associate professor of law
Tey Tsun Hang boosted a student’s grades in exchange for sex and
gifts, a judge said in convicting the academic of corruption.  Tey admitted to giving the student favorable grades
“because of the gratifications and the sex that he received,”
Chief District Judge  Tan Siong Thye  said in handing down his
verdict at a Singapore subordinate court yesterday.  Tey, a former district judge, had said he was in a
consensual relationship with the student. He argued in court
that he was coerced by officers of Singapore’s Corrupt Practices
Investigation Bureau into confessing that he gave better grades
to the student in exchange for sex and gifts, including a S$740
($585) Montblanc pen.  Tan said that whether or not Tey actually showed favor to
the student wasn’t vital to the charges.  “I came to the irresistible conclusion that the accused
had the corrupt intention and guilty knowledge in all of the six
charges against him,” the judge said.  Tey, 42, plans to appeal the conviction, his lawyer Peter
Low said following yesterday’s hearing.  Prosecutors are scheduled to recommend a sentence for Tey
today. The judge can accept the recommendation or impose a
sentence independently. Each of the six corruption charges
carries a maximum sentence of five years in jail and a S$100,000
fine.  Tey, married with a 15-year-old daughter, should be given a
stiff fine as he has “suffered great mental hardship” since
the probe began in April 2012, Low said during the hearing. Tey
has also lost his tenured professorship, his permanent resident
status in Singapore and probably will be fired from the
university, Low said.  The university yesterday said it fired Tey with immediate
effect, adding it has found no evidence of any irregularities in
its grading system.  The court heard during a 28-day trial that the former
student paid for an abortion after becoming pregnant.  The case is Prosecutor v. Tey Tsun Hang. DAC027011/2012.
The Subordinate Courts of Singapore.  JPMorgan Seeks Lehman U.K. Lawyer Testimony in $8.6 Billion Suit  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which is fighting an $8.6 billion
lawsuit by defunct Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., told a judge
it needs judicial assistance to seek testimony from David
Swanson, a lawyer at Lehman’s U.K. affiliate.  JPMorgan, accused of speeding Lehman’s 2008 bankruptcy by
demanding too much collateral for loans, said Swanson’s evidence
is necessary to show that Lehman in fact defrauded its bank into
lending $5 billion against risky securities known as Racers.  At the time, the former investment bank’s own German
affiliate wouldn’t accept the securities as collateral, JPMorgan
said in a federal court filing in Manhattan on May 24.  The bank’s request to the judge follows a move by Lehman to
force Bruno Iksil, a French national known as the “London
Whale” trader at JPMorgan, to answer questions. Lehman’s
request for international judicial assistance has been received
by French authorities, according to a letter filed in court on
May 6 by the office that handles such requests.  Harvard College Dean Who Authorized E-Mail Probe to Step Down  Evelynn Hammonds, the dean of  Harvard College  who
authorized a probe of e-mails in a search for leaks after a
student cheating scandal, is stepping down after five years to
return to teaching and research.  Hammonds, the first woman and black person to lead
Harvard’s undergraduate college, will go on sabbatical before
returning to head a new program for the study of race and gender
in science and medicine in the W.E.B. Du Bois Institute, Harvard
said yesterday in a statement.  In April, Hammonds issued an apology after it was revealed
that the university failed to disclose the extent of a probe
into e-mails in search of a leak of confidential communication
related to a cheating scandal that implicated dozens of
students. Hammonds admitted that the probe was wider than
initially acknowledged, involving two reviews of one resident
dean’s e-mail that hadn’t been previously disclosed.  As dean of Harvard College, Hammonds oversees the academic
curriculum, residential houses and other undergraduate matters
at the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based school. She joined the
Faculty of Arts and Sciences  in 200 2 after teaching at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology .  In an e-mail to the Harvard community,  Michael Smith , dean
of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, said he will appoint an
interim dean in the coming weeks and will form a committee in
the fall to help search for a permanent replacement.  The searches of subject lines in the resident dean’s
administrative account were approved by Smith and university
counsel, Hammonds said in April. While the lawyer was informed
of two additional searches of the dean’s individual account,
Smith was not, Hammonds had said. University President Drew Faust also wasn’t informed of the additional searches.  Centrica Said to Pick Citigroup for Irish Power Company Bid  Centrica Plc (CNA) , the U.K.’s largest household energy supplier,
picked  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to advise on a potential bid for the
retail unit of Irish state-owned gas company Bord Gais Eireann,
three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Goodbody Stockbrokers  and law firm  Arthur Cox , both based
in Dublin, have also been retained by Centrica to help with an
offer for the gas and electricity supplier, said the people, who
asked not to be identified as the matter is private. Bord Gais
set a June 12 deadline for indicative bids for the unit, which
may be valued at as much as 1.4 billion euros ($1.8 billion),
including debt, two people said on May 24.  The business, Bord Gais Energy, also owns  15 percent  of
Ireland’s installed wind farms. Officials from Centrica,
Citigroup, Arthur Cox and Goodbody Stockbrokers declined to
comment on the process.  “The Irish and U.K. energy markets are closely linked so
it’s natural for us to be interested in what goes on there,”
Windsor, U.K. based Centrica said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  For more, click here.  General Counsel  JPMorgan Names Treasury’s Kingsley Mortgage Co-General Counsel  JPMorgan Chase & Co., the biggest U.S. lender, named former
U.S. Treasury Department official Darius Kingsley as co-general
counsel of mortgage banking.  Kingsley was the agency’s chief of the homeownership
preservation office and had been senior counsel for the Office
of Financial Stability, the New York-based lender said yesterday
in a statement. He will share duties with Denise DesRosiers, who
served as deputy general counsel of mortgage banking.  Moves  Senior CFPB Official Joins BuckleySandler in Washington  Former Deputy Assistant Director for the Office of
Regulations at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Benjamin
K. Olson, joined BuckleySandler LLP. He’ll be counsel in the
firm’s government enforcement/CFPB practice in Washington.  Olson has regulatory experience at the CFPB, the Board of
Governors of the  Federal Reserve System , and the Federal Trade
Commission. Most recently, he supervised the CFPB’s mortgage and
credit card rulemakings, the firm said. During his time at the
CFPB, Olson managed more than 40 regulatory attorneys and staff
in the Bureau’s Office of Regulations. He oversaw eight Dodd-Frank Act mortgage rulemakings, including the CFPB’s Ability-to-Repay/Qualified Mortgage, Mortgage Servicing and Loan Originator
Compensation final rules, according to BuckleySandler.  At his new firm, Olson will handle financial services
matters involving consumer protection and  government regulation 
to provide advice to clients on government investigations and
enforcement actions.  “Our clients look to us for our experience handling
financial services matters at the intersection of consumer
protection and government regulation. Ben’s direct experience as
a senior lawyer at both the Federal Reserve Board and the CFPB
will be of great assistance as we guide our clients through the
challenges ahead in this time of heightened regulatory
scrutiny,” BuckleySandler chairman and executive
partner, Andrew L. Sandler said in a statement.  BuckleySandler has nearly 150 lawyers in Washington, New
York, Los Angeles and Orange County.  Video  Lauryn Hill’s Tax Evasion a Battle for Survival: Lawyer  Nathan Hochman , partner at Bingham McCutchen LLP, talks
with Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck about his representation of
Grammy-winning singer Lauryn Hill in a federal tax evasion case.  On May 6, 2013, U.S. Magistrate Judge Madeline Arleo
sentenced the singer and songwriter to three months in prison
followed by three months of home confinement for not filing U.S.
tax returns.  Hochman, in this “Rainmakers” episode, also explains why
Hill failed to pay taxes on more than $1.8 million earned
between 2005 and 2007.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 