-- Wharton Graduate Dupree Gets 7-Year Sentence for Bank Fraud
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-05-29T23:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/wharton-graduate-dupree-gets-7-year-sentence-for-bank-fraud-1-.html
A graduate of the University of
Pennsylvania’s Wharton School and former University of North
Carolina basketball player was sentenced to seven years in
prison for his role in an $18 million bank fraud.  Courtney Dupree, 44, was sentenced today for defrauding
Amalgamated Bank of New York to obtain a credit line for his
holding company, GDC Acquisitions LLC, which owned lighting and
furniture dealers.  Dupree “masterminded a complex, multimillion-dollar
scheme,” U.S. District Judge Kiyo A. Matsumoto in  Brooklyn , New
York, said in court. “I agree with Mr. Dupree that it was not
motivated by greed so much as a real, strong desire to succeed.
It doesn’t excuse his fraud.”  The former business executive was found guilty in December
2011 of bank fraud, conspiracy to commit bank fraud, and two
counts of making false statements in connection with a scheme
that took place from 2007 to mid-2010. Dupree has been in
custody since March 2011, when he was arrested on a separate set
of charges of defrauding Amalgamated Bank. The government agreed
to dismiss those charges today.  Dupree’s lawyer Roscoe C. Howard argued that his client
should be sentenced to no more jail than the two years he has
already spent in federal custody. Assistant U.S. Attorney
Michael Yaeger argued that the crime was deliberate, taking
three years to orchestrate, and warranted prison time.  “Most people are not smart enough to get away with it as
long as the defendant did,” Yaeger said. “He took enormous
risks with other people’s money.”  The case is U.S. v. Dupree, 10-cr-00627, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 