-- Wheeler Says RBNZ Ready to Weaken Kiwi as Resolve Challenged
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-05-30T07:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/wheeler-says-rbnz-ready-to-step-up-sales-of-over-valued-currency.html
The Reserve Bank of New Zealand is
prepared to increase currency sales to combat a “significantly
over-valued” kiwi, Governor Graeme Wheeler said, as his ability
to influence the exchange rate is challenged.  “In recent months we have undertaken foreign exchange
transactions to try and dampen some of the spikes in the
exchange rate,” Wheeler said in notes of a  speech  in Auckland
today. “We are prepared to scale up our foreign exchange
activities if we see opportunities to have greater influence.”  The central bank sold a net NZ$256 million ($207 million)
in April, the most since May 2008, according to data on its
website today. That was less than expected after Wheeler on May
8 said the RBNZ had sold the kiwi to weaken it, said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research for TD Securities Inc. in
 Singapore .  “We question the wisdom of such announcements of
‘intervention’ by senior RBNZ staff when the evidence clearly
shows a lack of resolve,” she said. “Does this confirm that
all along that it is merely jawboning the currency lower? This
small number completely dilutes any impact of ‘we stand ready to
intervene’ in any future speeches or communique in any shape.”  Wheeler joins policy makers from  Jerusalem  to  Tokyo  to
Bangkok who, confronted with exchange-rate appreciation, are
intervening or pumping monetary stimulus. The RBNZ, which has
kept its  official cash rate  at a record-low 2.5 percent since
March 2011, is reluctant to lower borrowing costs because that
may stoke a housing boom and fan inflation, he said.  Intervention Talk  New Zealand’s dollar is the second-strongest in the past
year after the Swedish krona among the 10 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. It bought 81.12 U.S.
cents at 6:51 p.m. in Wellington from 81.29 cents before the
statement from Wheeler was released.  Wheeler on May 8 said the central bank had been intervening
in the currency, the first time since June 2007 it had publicly
commented on currency action. New Zealand’s dollar has declined
about 4.1 percent since those comments amid speculation the
Federal Reserve may slow monetary stimulus.  “He was trying to scare the hell out of people,” said
Stephen Toplis, head of research at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in
Wellington. “How many times has Wheeler said the currency is
grossly overvalued? I lose track, which is not to say he should
stop doing it.”  The central bank sold NZ$1.58 billion from February to May
2008 after the currency rose to a then-record 82.14 cents in
February of that year, the RBNZ currency flow data shows. The
kiwi retreated to 78.3 cents by May 30, 2008.  One-Way Bet  “We can only hope to smooth the peaks off the exchange
rate and diminish investor perceptions that the New Zealand
dollar is a one-way bet, rather than attempt to influence the
trend level of the Kiwi,” Wheeler said today.  The NZ$256 million in sales last month compares with the
NZ$10.1 billion in average daily turnover in April in New
Zealand’s foreign exchange market, central bank data shows.  New Zealand’s currency has gained 7.4 percent the past
year, according to the Bloomberg indexes, and rose to 86.76
cents on April 11, the highest since August 2011.  “New Zealand’s exchange rate is significantly
overvalued,” Wheeler said. “Fortunately it has retreated a
little in recent weeks with a stronger U.S. dollar.”  Monetary Stimulus  Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer this week cut
interest rates for a second time in a month to curb gains in the
shekel. The Bank of  Thailand  yesterday cut its one-day bond
repurchase rate for the first time this year after the baht
reached a 16-year high in April. The Bank of Japan is buying
bonds and pushing the yen lower in an effort to revive the
economy.  The RBNZ is concerned about the scale of housing lending
and the proportion of high loan-to-value lending, which are
loans made in excess of 80 percent of the property value,
Wheeler said.  House prices  in April rose at the fastest annual pace since
2007, according to a May 13 report from the Real Estate
Institute.  Home-building approvals  jumped 18.5 percent last
month to the highest since April 2008, according to a government
report today.  “Risks associated with excessive housing demand could
normally be constrained by raising official interest rates and
letting them feed through into higher mortgage costs,” Wheeler
said. “However, this would carry significant risks of a further
strengthening in the exchange rate.”  Macro Tools  The central bank this month agreed with the government on
how to use new policies that may influence bank lending. The
macro-prudential tools include changes to bank balance sheets
and limits on the volume of high loan-to-value transactions.  The new policies will add to the cost of bank funding, may
help to reduce the supply of mortgage lending and, in some
cases, curb the housing market, Wheeler said.  “If house price pressures abated, it would increase the
possibility that the cash rate could remain at its current level
for longer than through this year,” he said. “If housing
pressures are much less of a concern and the exchange rate
continues to appreciate and the inflation risk looks low, it may
create opportunities to lower the cash rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  