-- Why Does Europe Think Hezbollah Is Only Partly Terrorist?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-29T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/why-does-europe-think-hezbollah-is-only-partly-terrorist-.html
(Corrects third paragraph to say the  Netherlands  has called
for the EU to list Hezbollah as a terrorist group. An earlier
version of the story originally published on May 30 said the
Netherlands had put Hezbollah on its terrorist blacklist.)  The European Union is poised to add
the military wing of Lebanese Hezbollah to its  list  of banned
terrorist groups. Why not the whole organization?  Let’s start by saying that it will be good news if the U.K.
can persuade the other 26 EU countries to list even part of
Hezbollah as a terrorist outfit. Europe has held off for far too
long -- even after the Bulgarian government connected Hezbollah
to a bus bombing last July that killed five Israeli tourists and
their driver. The designation would make it much harder for the
group to finance its operations through  Europe  and its banks, or
for European officials to talk openly with it.  An EU working group is scheduled to meet next week to
discuss the listing -- and will make a recommendation to the
wider organization. France and  Germany  have both swung behind
the U.K. proposal on the partial listing, making it likely to
pass. So far, though, the Netherlands is the only European
government to call for the EU to list the whole of  Hezbollah  as
a terrorist group.  Israel  did so in 1989 and the U.S. in 1997.  Although it seems absurd to make a distinction between the
“bad” and “not quite so bad” divisions of the same
organization, it can be exactly the right thing to do. “We
never talk to terrorists” is a popular line for governments to
take, but also a dumb one. U.K. negotiations with  Sinn Fein , the
political arm of the  Irish Republican Army , helped make a peace
agreement possible.  Yet such selective distinctions only work in very
particular circumstances. You need a good reason to keep up the
fiction that a movement’s political leaders aren’t connected to
its terrorist operations (not even Hezbollah claims they are
separate), because there are costs involved in trying to split
the difference. So long as one part of the organization can
recruit and  raise money  legally, it can support its military
operations, and Hezbollah has an extensive financial network in
Europe.  Most European leaders clearly think it is worth the cost to
make the political-military distinction in Hezbollah’s case.
Until last year, the group hadn’t carried out a terrorist attack
in Europe since the 1990s. It was also an important part of
Lebanon’s elected government, representing Shiites in the
country’s delicate sectarian balance. U.K. officials say they
are  reluctant  to condemn Hezbollah as a movement, because it
would be destabilizing for Lebanon. France took the same
position.  That argument now looks untenable. The Bulgaria bombing,
followed by the arrest and conviction of a Hezbollah operative
who was plotting a similar attack in Cyprus, has exposed the
threat that the group’s global network still poses in Europe.
Meanwhile, the benefits of keeping communications open have
disappeared. The U.K., for example, cut off all contacts with
Hezbollah in 2010. Hezbollah helped force the collapse of the
Lebanese government in March, and now the group is fighting
alongside Syrian government troops in the civil war across the
border.  Partly as a result of Hezbollah’s actions in  Syria , the
conflict has begun to spill into Lebanon in earnest, pitting
Sunnis against Alawites and Shiites. Europe should end the
charade, list the entire group as the terrorist organization
that it is, and shut down Hezbollah’s funding and recruiting
operations in Europe.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 