-- Win or Lose El Paso Guarantees Baseball Bondholders: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-05-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/win-or-lose-el-paso-guarantees-baseball-bondholders-muni-credit.html
El Paso,  Texas , the second-largest
U.S. city without a professional sports team, is borrowing $53
million with yields at record lows as it joins municipalities
nationwide betting that stadiums will rejuvenate downtowns.  The city of about 666,000 demolished municipal offices in
April to make room for a minor-league baseball stadium seating
9,000. It is preparing to issue bonds as soon as next month,
part of a $500 million urban renewal project to attract
companies and young professionals. The city will use general-fund revenue to make up for any shortfalls on bond payments.  From Birmingham,  Alabama , to Hillsboro,  Oregon ,
municipalities are building stadiums to lure teams and spur
their economies. The venues appeal to localities trying to boost
revenue after the 18-month recession that ended in 2009. David Jaderlund at Jaderlund Investments LLC in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico ,
said he’ll consider the El Paso bonds even though he typically
avoids stadium debt because sports aren’t an essential city
service.  “They have been very conservative about their
indebtedness,” said Jaderlund, a general partner at the  money
manager , which owns about $15 million in munis of the city and
county of El Paso and a local agency.  Oklahoma Model  Only Austin, with 821,000 residents 600 miles (965
kilometers) to the east, exceeds El Paso in population while
also lacking a franchise related to the four major U.S. sports.
El Paso officials want to follow the path of AAA rated  Oklahoma
City , which lured the  National Basketball Association ’s Thunder.  El Paso has the highest poverty level of Texas’s six
biggest cities. Yet it benefits from a diverse economy anchored
by the Fort Bliss Army base,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a report.
Troop levels at the site rose to 33,000 last year from 9,000 in
2007 amid base realignments.  Situated across the  Rio Grande  from  Mexico , El Paso has a
AA credit grade, Standard & Poor’s third-highest level. The city
plans to issue revenue debt for the ballpark within 60 days as
investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market have pushed its
yields to historic lows.  Taxable El Paso Build America Bonds maturing in August 2034
traded May 22 at an average yield of 3.46 percent, the lowest
since their September 2009 issue, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That was 2.38 percentage points more than benchmark
Treasuries, the narrowest spread since February.  Yield Path  At the same time, tax-free bonds due in August 2026 traded
this month at an average yield of 2.41 percent, the lowest since
they were issued in August 2011, Bloomberg data show.  While sports projects in Oklahoma City and other
municipalities sparked development, some left localities worse
off.  Harrison,  New Jersey , lost its investment-grade status in
2011 after a $200 million venue for Major League Soccer’s Red
Bulls failed to meet projections. Vadnais Heights,  Minnesota ,
built a $25 million sports complex that didn’t generate
sufficient revenue, prompting the city to stop appropriating
payments this year. Rating companies cut the city to junk.  “Sports stadiums have gotten to be very expensive and
they’re not necessarily going to have a full payback to the
community,” said  Richard Ciccarone , managing director at Oak
Brook, Illinois-based McDonnell Investment Management LLC, which
oversees $8 billion in munis. “They squeeze out tax dollars
that are needed for more essential purposes.”  Tucson Purchase  El Paso acted last year when business leaders Paul Foster
and Woody Hunt bought a San Diego Padres minor league team in
Tucson,  Arizona , with plans to move it to the new ballpark in
2014. Foster is chairman of El Paso-based  Western Refining Inc. (WNR) ,
with oil operations in Texas and New Mexico. Hunt is chairman of
Hunt Cos. Inc., which owns or manages $16 billion in real
estate, its website says.  The plan sparked lawsuits because El Paso tore down the 10-story municipal hall built in 1978 and approved a new park
without a public vote. The lawsuits have been dismissed or
withdrawn, Josh Hunt, Woody Hunt’s son and a part owner of the
team, said in an interview.  The city skipped a feasibility study and a public vote
because Hunt and Foster said any delay might cost El Paso the
team, said Bill Studer, deputy city manager. Buying lots for a
ballpark elsewhere downtown would have taken more time and
money, Josh Hunt said.  Delay Risk  “There’s a very high probability we would have lost the
chance to have a team,” he said.  Four hundred pounds (181 kilograms) of dynamite knocked
down the  city hall  in less than 10 seconds on a Sunday morning
in April, leaving 1,000 truckloads of debris that took about two
weeks to remove.  To pay for the ballpark, El Paso voters in November
approved a 2 percentage-point increase in hotel taxes to back
the bonds. Voters also passed $473 million in borrowings for
other projects, including a $180 million arena that officials
want to use for minor-league hockey and basketball. It won’t be
built for at least five years, Studer said.  The hotel tax, parking fees, ticket surcharges and the
baseball team’s rent won’t cover all of the ballpark bonds’ debt
service, so the city will spend about $500,000 annually from its
general fund initially, subject to appropriation, Studer said.
That amount would decline if the city takes in more hotel taxes,
Studer said.  Rehab Price  To replace city hall will cost about $35 million to buy and
rehab four downtown buildings. To pay for the move, the city
will issue bonds, which also don’t require a public vote, Studer
said.  The Tucson team moving to El Paso sold 3,000 tickets per
game last year, the lowest attendance in the 16-team Pacific
Coast League. El Paso’s team will do better, said Mike Feder,
general manager of the Tucson Padres.  “They’ve never had Triple A baseball, their downtown
stadium will be fantastic and their ownership group has deep
roots in the community,” said Feder, who isn’t moving with the
team.  Elsewhere in the municipal market, yields on benchmark 10-year munis are close to a seven-week high. The iShares S&P
National AMT-Free Municipal Bond Fund, the largest exchange-traded fund tracking the municipal market, is at the  lowest
price  since July.  At  1.92 percent , yields on 10-year munis compare with  2.17
percent (USGG10YR)  for similar-maturity Treasuries, the highest rate since
April 2012.  The  ratio  of the two  interest rates , a gauge of relative
value between the asset classes, is about 88 percent, the lowest
since January. The lower the figure, the more expensive local-government bonds are compared with federal securities. The ratio
has averaged 92 percent since 2001.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  