-- Twitter CEO Costolo Says Investing ‘Heavily’ in TV
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-05-29T19:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/twitter-ceo-costolo-says-investing-heavily-in-tv.html
Twitter Inc. Chief Executive Officer
 Dick Costolo  said he sees television companies as valuable
partners for its microblogging service and is investing
accordingly.  “Twitter is the social soundtrack for TV,” Costolo said
today in an onstage interview at the D: All Things Digital
conference in  Rancho Palos Verdes ,  California .  “We’ve decided to invest heavily in that,” said Costolo.
“There’s a bunch of ways we can be complementary to
broadcasters.”  Twitter is adding video content to bolster ad revenue in a
bid to reach $1 billion in sales by 2014. Earlier this month,
Twitter announced a partnership with the  National Basketball
Association  to stream game highlights, as well as a deal with
ESPN, a unit of Walt Disney Co., to show snippets from soccer
matches, college football and other sports.  The microblogging site is also investing “quite a bit of
money” in improving security in the weeks after hackers
compromised the Associated Press account on the site, triggering
a stock market decline, Costolo said. Last week, it added two-step authentication, which requires users to input a code sent
via text message to a mobile phone in order to log in.  “We haven’t moved as quickly there as we would have wanted
to.”  While Costolo has said that management isn’t concentrating
on an initial public offering, Twitter is widely predicted to
hold a share sale before long to fund expansion and give early
investors a way to realize financial gains on their holdings.  IPO Question  Today Costolo continued to downplay the potential for an
IPO, likening himself to a football player concentrating on
making a big play while someone stands on the sideline asking
him what he’s doing after the game.  “I’m in the middle of trying to run this business and
build this business.” Planning an IPO is “not the way I spend
my time thinking about the company,” Costolo said.  Earlier this month, the company hired Morgan Stanley
managing director Cynthia Gaylor to run corporate development,
adding an executive with 17 years of investment-banking
experience.  Twitter Inc. was valued at almost $10 billion by one of its
investors this month, up about 10 percent from a previous
estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  