-- Wrestling Joins Baseball, Squash as Finalists for 2020 Games
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-05-29T17:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/wrestling-joins-baseball-squash-as-finalists-for-2020-olympics.html
Wrestling, baseball/softball and
squash were recommended by the International Olympic Committee’s
executive board for inclusion in the 2020 Games.  The three sports, with baseball and softball submitted as a
joint bid, were selected over karate, roller sports, sport
climbing, wakeboarding and the Chinese martial art of wushu at a
meeting in St. Petersburg,  Russia , to discuss which sport to add
to the schedule.  A final vote on one of the three will take place in
September at a full meeting of IOC members in Buenos Aires,
which also will decide which city out of Istanbul, Madrid and
 Tokyo  hosts the games.  The sports were chosen by secret ballot over several
rounds. Wrestling gained approval in the first round with eight
of the 14 votes; baseball/softball beat karate 9-5 in a head-to-head vote; and squash got through in the final round with eight
votes, topping wushu (four votes) and sport climbing (two
votes), according to the Associated Press.  “There’s no question wrestling will get selected but the
real question is will there be motions from the floor to expand
the number of sports,” Harvey Schiller, a past president of the
International Baseball Federation, said in a phone interview
from St. Petersburg. “There’s a good opportunity for
baseball/softball when it’s put before the entire congress.”  Possible Expansion  Despite current rules that call for only one more sport to
be added to the schedule, there’s been a lot of discussion over
adding another team sport, said Schiller, the chairman and chief
executive officer of GlobalOptions Group Inc.  “I’m very optimistic about it, though at the same time I’m
realistic about the fact that wrestling had such a strong
presence on this vote that it will look pretty good going
forward,” Schiller said.  Twenty-five core sports were selected for inclusion in
February, while golf and rugby sevens will join the program for
the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, meaning wrestling,
baseball/softball and squash are competing to be the 28th sport.  “It was never going to be an easy decision but I feel my
colleagues on the board made a good decision,” Jacques Rogge,
the president of the IOC, said in a statement. “I wish the
three shortlisted sports the best of luck in the run-up to the
vote in September and would like to thank the other sports for
their hard work and dedication.”  Wrestling Decision  Wrestling was dropped from the list of core sports for 2020
in February, even though it’s been part of the modern Olympic
program since 1896 and was in the ancient games in  Greece . The
IOC systematically reviews every sport following each Olympics.
It said 39 criteria are used to determine sports’ suitability
for inclusion, including youth appeal, universality, popularity,
good governance, respect for athletes and respect for Olympic
values.  Baseball and softball were removed from the Olympics
following a 2005 vote and last appeared at the 2008 Beijing
Games. The two joined in an effort to return. Baseball’s
inclusion was hampered by the fact that the Major League
Baseball season runs concurrent with the Summer Games, limiting
participation of the sport’s top athletes.  The 25 core sports now on the Olympic roster for 2020 are
aquatics, archery, badminton, basketball, boxing, canoeing,
cycling, equestrian, fencing, gymnastics, handball, hockey,
judo, modern pentathlon, rowing, sailing, shooting, soccer,
table tennis, taekwondo, tennis, track, triathlon, volleyball
and weightlifting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 