-- WTI Falls From Weekly High as OPEC Signals Stable Output
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-05-29T12:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/wti-falls-from-weekly-high-as-opec-signals-no-oil-output-change.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
before data likely to show a decline in U.S. gasoline stockpiles
as OPEC delegates in Vienna indicated the group will leave its
output target unchanged at this week’s meeting.  Futures dropped as much as 1 percent in New York after
gaining for the first time in a week yesterday as U.S.  consumer
confidence  rose to the highest in five years. The Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries will keep its production limit
at 30 million barrels a day at a May 31 meeting in Vienna, said
two delegates who asked not to be identified because the
decision isn’t yet final. An Energy Information Administration
report tomorrow may show gasoline supplies dropped 650,000
barrels last week, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “OPEC will be a non-event, as the key producers seem quite
happy with the status quo,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “In the inventory report, gasoline
stock change will be most important to watch,” with the U.S.
entering the peak summer driving season, he said.  WTI for July delivery was at $94.14 a barrel, down 87
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 12:56 p.m. London time. The volume of all futures traded was
3 percent above the 100-day average. The contract climbed 86
cents to $95.01 yesterday. Prices are up 0.7 percent this month
after losing 3.9 percent in April.  China Loans  Brent crude  for July settlement was down 45 cents at
$103.77 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark grade was at a premium of $9.61
to WTI futures. The spread was $9.22 yesterday, the widest based
on closing prices since May 15.  The current oil price is suitable for producers and
consumers,  Saudi Arabia ’s petroleum minister,  Ali al-Naimi , said
today, according to state-run Saudi Press Agency. Saudi Arabia
is the world’s biggest crude exporter.  “Brent is pulling back on some risk due to  China  concerns,
and returning concerns of volatility in Japanese financial
assets,” according to Bjarne Schieldrop, chief commodity
analyst at SEB AB in Oslo. The grade, which gained 1.6 percent
yesterday, faces pressure after  Fitch Ratings  said debt problems
may be emerging in China, he said.  Banks in China expanded total lending to nearly double the
nation’s gross domestic product last year from 125 percent four
years earlier, Fitch’s Beijing-based head of China financial
institutions Charlene Chu said in an interview today.  Crude Stockpiles  U.S. crude stockpiles probably fell  750,000 barrels  last
week as refineries bolstered output of gasoline before Memorial
Day, the May 27 holiday that marked the start of the peak-demand
summer months, according to the median estimate of eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Oil is likely to stay quite steady,” said  Victor Shum ,
vice president at IHS Energy Insight, a consultant in Singapore.
“If U.S. inventories turn out to be falling, then that should
help support pricing.”  Distillate inventories, including heating oil and diesel,
probably increased 150,000 barrels, the survey showed. The EIA,
the Energy Department’s statistical arm, is scheduled to release
its report tomorrow, a day later than usual because of the
Memorial Day holiday.  The  American Petroleum Institute  in  Washington  will publish
separate inventory data today. The industry group collects
information on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries,
bulk terminals and pipelines. The government requires that
reports be filed with the EIA for its survey.  Brent’s rebound in London is stalling as futures approach
technical resistance along the 50-day moving average, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. This indicator, at around $104.22
a barrel today, is close to where prices halted advances last
week. Sell orders tend to be clustered near chart-resistance
levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  