-- Crude Falls to Four-Week Low on Fed Stimulus Concern
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-05-29T21:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/wti-crude-fluctuates-on-chinese-growth-euro-rally.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell to
a four-week low on concern that the  Federal Reserve  will cut
debt purchases as the economy of the world’s biggest oil-consuming nation strengthens.  Futures dropped 2 percent and global equities declined. The
U.S. auctioned $35 billion of five-year notes as the highest
yields in 13 months attracted buyers. That was the first
offering since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the
central bank could curb the pace of its buying if growth
accelerates. OPEC won’t change its output target at a meeting
this week, delegates said.  “Equities are getting pummeled and oil is taking a hit as
well on concerns about the Fed,” said  Stephen Schork , president
of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “Once
again,  Ben Bernanke  is a bigger determinate of what happens in
the oil market than OPEC.”  WTI crude for July delivery slid $1.88 to $93.13 a barrel
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the lowest settlement since
May 1. The volume of all futures traded was 4.6 percent above
the 100-day average for the time of day at 4:33 p.m.  Prices decreased after the  American Petroleum Institute 
reported that U.S. inventories gained 4.4 million barrels to
395.1 million, the highest level since July 1981. The July
contract fell $2.12 to $92.89 a barrel in electronic trading at
4:54 p.m. The contract traded at $93.14 before the report was
released at 4:30 p.m.  Brent oil for July settlement fell $1.80, or 1.7 percent,
to settle at $102.43 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Volume for all contracts was 23 percent lower
than the 100-day average.  Wider Spread  The European benchmark grade traded at a $9.30 premium to
WTI futures, the widest level based on closing prices since May
15. It ended at $9.22 yesterday.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  both dropped 0.7 percent. European stocks
also slipped, with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index falling 1.9
percent. Ten-year Treasury yields retreated from the highest
level in more than a year.  “We’re looking at the prospect of the Fed reducing
stimulus sooner, rather than later,” said  Phil Flynn , a senior
market analyst for Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “This
doesn’t bode well for the oil market and demand.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will keep
its production limit at 30 million barrels a day at a May 31
meeting in Vienna, said two delegates who asked not to be
identified because the decision isn’t yet final.  Bloomberg Survey  While all but one of 20 analysts in a Bloomberg survey
predict the 12-member organization will maintain its target at
the meeting, most say OPEC needs to conform better with the
limit to avoid a glut.  The current oil price is suitable for producers and
consumers, Saudi Arabia’s petroleum minister,  Ali al-Naimi , said
today, according to the state-run Saudi Press Agency. The
kingdom is the world’s biggest crude exporter.  Prices also declined as the  International Monetary Fund  cut
its growth projections for  China . The nation needs to make
“decisive” policy changes that would put the economy on a more
sustainable path,  David Lipton , first deputy managing director
of the IMF, said today at a press briefing in Beijing after
concluding an annual review of the country.  The IMF said China will expand about 7.75 percent this year
and next. In April, the fund forecast Chinese growth of 8
percent this year and an 8.2 percent expansion in 2014.  ‘Gloomy’ Forecast  “The Chinese IMF forecast is gloomy for the market,”
Flynn said. “It’s Chinese growth that has been driving the
market and demand higher in recent years.”  Futures climbed from the day’s low after the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development forecast that global
growth will accelerate in 2014 with both the U.S. and Japan
continuing to outpace the euro area.  “The most important factor today is the IMF downgrade of
Chinese growth prospects, which is a negative for the
consumption outlook of the swing demand nation,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge
fund that focuses on energy. “Countering it somewhat is the
positive OECD outlook for U.S. and Japanese growth next year.”  U.S. gross domestic product will rise 1.9 percent this year
and 2.8 percent in 2014, while Japan’s will climb 1.6 percent
and 1.4 percent, the OECD said. The euro-area economy will
 shrink  0.6 percent this year before expanding 1.1 percent next,
according to the adviser.  U.S. Stockpiles  An Energy Information Administration report tomorrow will
probably show that U.S. crude supplies fell  500,000 barrels  last
week, according to the median of 11 responses in a Bloomberg
survey. Gasoline inventories slipped 500,000 barrels while
stockpiles of distillate fuel, a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, decreased 450,000 barrels, the survey showed.  “The IMF downgrade of China’s economic growth prospects
set the tone for the market,” said  Addison Armstrong , director
of market research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“We aren’t expecting the data to be very dramatic this week.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
July was 22.3 percent, compared with 21.3 yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 549,818
contracts as of 4:35 p.m. It totaled 494,101 contracts
yesterday, 16 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.74 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  