-- Myanmar May Attract $100 Billion in FDI by 2030, McKinsey Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-05-29T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/myanmar-may-attract-100-billion-in-fdi-by-2030-mckinsey-says.html
Myanmar may attract as much as $100
billion in foreign direct investment over the next two decades
if it spends enough to achieve its economic growth potential,
McKinsey Global Institute said in a report today.  The former military regime’s gross domestic product could
more than quadruple to $200 billion with an 8 percent annual
growth rate, according to  McKinsey , almost double the pace from
1990 to 2010. That may help lure $170 billion in capital
inflows, it said, with FDI accounting for $100 billion -- more
than twice as much as it attracted in the previous two decades.  “Myanmar is unique in terms of a country being isolated
for many decades and opening up, trying to make changes very
fast,” Heang Chhor, a McKinsey & Co. director in Southeast
Asia, said by phone. “The $170 billion would come only if
Myanmar keeps its credibility and support with the international
stakeholders, investors in particular.”  President Thein Sein has allowed more political freedom and
loosened controls on the economy following about five decades of
military rule, attracting companies including Ford Motor Co. and
Coca-Cola Co. He met with President  Barack Obama  and Japan Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe in the past two weeks, and Myanmar will host
a meeting of the World Economic Forum next week.  Myanmar’s economy may grow 6.75 percent this fiscal year,
led by natural gas sales and investment as the country moves to
modernize its financial system, the  International Monetary Fund 
said in a report earlier this month.  Low Productivity  Heang Chhor declined to say whether McKinsey is advising
Myanmar’s government, saying the company has a policy not to
comment on its clients. The report is “neutral” and not
commissioned by anybody, he said.  Myanmar’s economy remains heavily dependent on agriculture,
contributing to a low productivity rate, according to McKinsey.
Diversifying the economic base and increasing competition would
allow Myanmar to boost productivity, it said.  Financial services and telecom sectors could each grow at a
compound annual growth rate of 23 percent from 2010 to 2030,
McKinsey said. That compares with 17 percent for tourism, 10
percent for manufacturing and eight percent for infrastructure,
it said.  “Economic development and foreign direct investment in
Myanmar will take off only if all parties remain committed to
the reform agenda and if there is domestic political stability
and security,” the McKinsey report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  