-- Yen Climbs as Drop in Risk Appetite Fuels Haven Bid; Krona Gains
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-05-29T21:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/yen-advances-as-kuroda-says-stability-important-aussie-slides.html
The yen strengthened against all
except one of its 16 most-traded counterparts as investors
sought refuge amid a drop in risk appetite that sent stocks and
commodities lower.  The Japanese currency gained earlier after central-bank
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said a stable financial system is
important as policy makers add unprecedented stimulus. The
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development forecast
global economic growth will accelerate, with  Japan  and the U.S.
outpacing the euro area. Sweden’s krona advanced after the
nation’s economy expanded more than forecast.  “Equities are underperforming, which is giving people the
excuse to buy safe-haven currencies,”  Dean Popplewell , head
analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading firm Oanda
Corp., said in a telephone interview. “Further strengthening of
haven assets like the yen may be happening even more so on the
OECD comments.”  Japan’s currency rallied 1.2 percent to 101.16 per dollar
at 5 p.m.  New York  time, paring to 3.7 percent a loss for May
that would be its eighth monthly decline, the longest stretch
since 1996. The yen was 0.5 percent stronger at 130.90 per euro.
The shared currency gained 0.7 percent to $1.2941.  U.S. and European stocks fell amid concern the  Federal
Reserve  will slow stimulus that has boosted global markets. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told U.S. lawmakers May 22 the central
bank could cut the pace of its $85 billion in monthly bond
buying if officials see indications of sustained improvement in
economic growth. The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  dropped 0.7
percent, and S&P’s GSCI Index of commodities sank 1.2 percent.  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $39 billion, compared with $30 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $10 billion, the
largest share of trades at 26 percent. Dollar-Chinese  yuan 
options were the second most-actively traded, at $5.5 billion,
or 14 percent.  Dollar-yuan options trading was 61 percent above the
average for the past five Wednesdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yen options trading
was 4 percent above average.  Franc Climbs  Switzerland’s franc appreciated versus all of its 16 major
peers, jumping the most in 11 months versus the dollar, after
the OECD said the  Swiss National Bank  may have to raise  interest
rates  to help control a booming  property market . The franc
gained 1.6 percent to 96.16 centimes to the greenback and
climbed as much as 1.7 percent, the most since June 29, 2012. It
rose 0.9 percent to 1.2445 per euro.  The Swedish krona climbed after data showed the nation’s
economy grew twice as fast as analysts predicted in the first
quarter, sapping speculation the central bank will need to cut
interest rates at its July meeting. The krona strengthened 1.1
percent to 6.6494 per dollar after touching 6.7276, the weakest
level since Nov. 21.  The euro rose versus the greenback for the first time in
four days as the European Commission eased up on the austerity
policies championed by  Germany  in the wake of the region’s debt
crisis without proposing new spending programs. Countries
including France, Spain and Italy won greater budget freedom.  The 17-nation currency appreciated 4.2 percent over the
past year versus nine developed-market counterparts tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen was the biggest
loser, dropping 25 percent.  OECD Estimates  The OECD forecast Japan’s gross domestic product will
increase 1.6 percent this year and 1.4 percent in 2014. U.S. GDP
will grow 1.9 percent this year and 2.8 percent next, while the
euro area’s economy will shrink 0.6 percent in 2013 before
expanding 1.1 percent in 2014, the organization predicted.  The  Bank of Japan  pledged in April to double bond buying in
an attempt to increase inflation to 2 percent and end 15 years
of deflation. Board member Ryuzo Miyao said yesterday the
central bank has taken all necessary steps for now.  “The BOJ fired their big bazooka and made a very
aggressive move, and now they’re sitting back and watching that
play out,” Brad Bechtel, managing director at Faros Trading LLC
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “They
appear to be ready to do more if they need to, but they don’t
feel they need to just yet.”  Upward pressure on the yen may also be coming from an
increase in Japanese bond yields, Sonja Marten, a currency
strategist at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt , wrote in a note to
clients today.  Japanese Bonds  The yield on Japan’s  10-year government bond  rose three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, today to 0.93 percent,
the highest level on a closing basis since April 2012.  “The BOJ’s grand plan of creating growth and ending
deflationary pressures on the back of a massive expansion of the
monetary base, while relying on low yields to act as a conduit,
doesn’t seem to be working out all that well,” Marten wrote.  Brazil ’s real weakened beyond 2.10 per dollar for the first
time this year as Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said a
declining currency isn’t a concern, a weaker real helps
exporters and the government won’t use the exchange rate to curb
inflation. The currency slid 1.7 percent to 2.1106 after falling
1.9 percent earlier to 2.1151, the lowest since Dec. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  