-- Zoomlion Drops After Denying Report It Falsified Sales
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-05-29T09:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-29/zoomlion-drop-in-hong-kong-after-denying-report-on-sales.html
Zoomlion (000157)  Heavy Industry Science &
Technology Co.,  China ’s second-largest maker of construction
equipment, fell to a 20-month low in  Hong Kong  trading after
denying for a second time allegations it falsified sales.  Zoomlion  dropped  5.4 percent to close at HK$7.49, the
lowest since September 2011. The company yesterday said an
article on Sina.com saying sales were improperly accounted for
was “distorted” and “misleading.”  “The unsigned accusations reflected the vicious
competition in the weak construction equipment market, and that
investors are worrying vicious competition may persist,” Liu Rong, a Shenzhen-based analyst at China Merchants Securities,
said in a phone interview. “The sales outlook for the company
as well as the sector will remain weak in the first half.”  The  company , 16.2 percent  owned  by the government of  Hunan
province , and bigger rival  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (631)  face a drop
in orders as China’s slowing economic growth and government
curbs on the property market sap demand. Zoomlion’s first-quarter profit plummeted 72 percent.  Auditors Sign Off  KPMG and one other auditor signed off on the company’s 2012
financial report, Zoomlion said in a Shenzhen stock exchange
filing yesterday. The May 27 stock suspension, its second this
year following accusations in media reports, after Sina.com’s
publication of an article by the Xin Kuai Bao newspaper.  KPMG declined to comment, according to an e-mailed
statement.  In a separate statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange
yesterday, Zoomlion called the article’s allegations “false,
groundless and misleading.”  The company’s Hong Kong-traded shares have lost 34 percent
this year,  compared  with a 0.5 percent drop for the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index . Zoomlion shares in Shenzhen fell 2.5 percent to
close at 7.11  yuan .  Zoomlion’s $600 million of 6.125 percent bonds due December
2022 were little changed at 93.5 cents on the dollar as of 5:10
p.m. in Hong Kong, according to Bloomberg prices. The securities
slumped 0.8 cents to 93.5 cents yesterday, the lowest level
since Feb. 6, the prices show.  In January, Zoomlion halted share trading in Hong Kong
after Ming Pao Daily cited an unsigned letter accusing the
company of exaggerating sales. The equipment maker has denied
the allegations.  “If there’s anything wrong with the company, we should
have seen some official allegation” from the  stock exchanges 
since the Ming Pao report, said Victoria Li, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Barclays Plc. “Although there’s nothing new in this
accusation, it raised market concerns again about further future
anonymous allegations.”  Slowing Growth  China’s economic  growth  unexpectedly slowed to 7.7 percent
in the first quarter, while remaining above the government’s
full-year target of 7.5 percent.  Figures this month on fixed-asset investment and factory
production missed forecasts and gauges of manufacturing and
service industries declined. The economy expanded 7.8 percent in
2012, the slowest pace in 13 years.  Chinese companies’ finances have drawn increased attention
after short-seller  Carson Block ’s Muddy Waters LLC uncovered
irregularities including those at now-bankrupt Sino-Forest Corp.
in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  