-- 
Guggenheim Partners Is Said to Hire Bankers for Sale of Claymore ETF Unit

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-11-17T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-16/guggenheim-partners-is-said-to-hire-bankers-for-sale-of-claymore-etf-unit.html
Guggenheim Partners LLC is seeking
buyers for  Claymore Investments , the Canadian provider of
exchange-traded funds it acquired two years ago, said people
with knowledge of the matter.  Guggenheim hired JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of
Canada to find buyers, said the people, who spoke on condition
of anonymity because the effort is private. The unit, which had
$6.8 billion of assets under management as of Oct. 31, may fetch
several hundred million dollars in a sale, the people said.  Guggenheim acquired the business through its purchase of
Claymore Group LLC, announced in July 2009 and completed later
that year. In 2010, when it rebranded Claymore’s U.S.-registered
funds and business units under the Guggenheim name, Toronto-
based Claymore Investments kept its brand.  Jeffrey Kelley, a spokesman for Guggenheim, declined to
comment.  Claymore Investments, founded in 2005 and run by Chief
Executive Officer Som Seif, claims on its website to have
produced several “firsts” for the industry, including the
first actively managed ETF, the first ETF to invest in the so-
called BRIC nations of Brazil, Russia, India and  China , and the
first to offer an investment in physical gold with a Canadian
dollar hedge.  Claymore’s $6.6 billion in ETF assets under management as
of Oct. 31 amounts to 16 percent of the Canadian market,
according to data compiled by  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  Only BlackRock’s
iShares unit is bigger, with $28.5 billion.  Guggenheim, founded in 2000 with backing from the
Guggenheim family, is based in  Chicago  and  New York  and oversees
more than $125 billion in customer assets, according to the
company’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  