-- T-Mobile Jump Service Enables Phone Upgrades More Often
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-07-11T07:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/t-mobile-jump-service-lets-users-upgrade-phones-more-frequently.html
T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS) , seeking to stand
out from larger rivals Verizon Wireless and  AT&T Inc. (T) ,
introduced a new service called Jump that lets customers upgrade
to new phones twice a year.  Under the $10-a-month program, customers can get new phones
at the lowest available price after trading in their own models,
T-Mobile, the fourth-largest U.S. wireless carrier, said
yesterday at an event in New York. The company also said it has
upgraded its network more quickly than expected and now offers
speedy LTE service to 157 million people in 116 cities in towns.
The Bellevue, Washington-based carrier was aiming to reach 100
million people by mid-year.  “I’ll take a victory lap for our team,” Chief Executive
Officer John Legere said in an interview yesterday.  The Jump program furthers T-Mobile’s efforts to tinker with
the wireless industry’s business model, part of a campaign to
brand itself as the “un-carrier.” The company rolled out an
installment purchase plan for smartphones in March, breaking
from the tradition of subsidizing the devices in return for
long-term contracts, a move that has seen customer traffic in
stores double, Legere said. It also started offering Apple
Inc.’s iPhone earlier this year.  Customer foot traffic gains aren’t necessarily driven by
the introduction of the iPhone in April, he said. The device
made up 29 percent of smartphones in the second quarter.  That’s well below the rates of T-Mobile’s peers, said
 Walter Piecyk , an analyst with BTIG LLC in New York.  Contract Gains  “If it turns out that they are successful with this
strategy, it’s not because they’re riding on the back of the
iPhone,” said Piecyk.  The carrier may also have added contract customers for the
first time in three years, two people familiar with the
situation said this week. The return to user growth, which comes
six months ahead of target, will be reflected in the company’s
latest quarterly results, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the data isn’t yet public.  T-Mobile rose 1.4 percent to $24.42 at the close in New
York yesterday and has gained almost 50 percent since debuting
on the New York Stock Exchange on May 1. Parent  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE)  advanced 0.5 percent to 8.90 euros at 9:11 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  While T-Mobile declined to comment on its quarterly
results, the company has been the fastest-growing U.S. carrier
over the past two months, Legere said yesterday.  At the end of March, the carrier had about 20.1 million T-Mobile-branded contract subscribers and 6 million pay-as-you-go
users. The last time T-Mobile added contract subscribers was in
the second quarter of 2010.  Dish Network Corp., which lost out in bidding wars for T-Mobile rivals Sprint Nextel Corp. and Clearwire Corp., contacted
Deutsche Telekom executives earlier this year to explore a
potential takeover of T-Mobile, people familiar with the matter
said in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  