-- Abe Puts Property Deals on Pace for Best Year Since 2008
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-07-11T07:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/abe-puts-property-deals-on-pace-for-best-year-since-2008.html
Japanese stocks are the biggest
winners in the world this year. The yen is down the most of any
major currency, helping exporters. And as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s efforts to stoke the economy take tentative hold, Japan’s
commercial property market is coming back to life.  Sales of offices, logistics and retail space surged 70
percent to 1.48 trillion yen ($15 billion) in the first five
months of 2013 from a year earlier, according to  Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  Deals will rise to as much as 3.5 trillion yen this
year, the most since 2008, Takeshi Akagi, local director at the
Chicago-based broker estimates.  Abe, who took office in December, has boosted spending and
the  Bank of Japan  has embarked on an unprecedented monetary
easing in a drive to end 15 years of deflation. The approach,
dubbed Abenomics, is lifting the confidence of investors such as
 Nippon Building Fund Inc. (8951)  and AXA Real Estate Investment
Managers in a market that has languished since an asset bubble
burst more than two decades ago.  “I don’t think anyone would argue that there hasn’t been a
favorable sentiment shift since Abe came to power,” Christian Mancini, chief executive officer of North East Asia at Savills
Asia Pacific Ltd., said in an interview. “Inflation translates
into balance-sheet recovery and has a knock-on effect on the
real estate market.”  Among the signs of improvement:  Tokyo ’s office vacancy rate
fell for a third month in May and is down from a record a year
ago, while prices are inching higher. Land values are rising,
according to government data that tracks 150 prime sites around
the country.  The 43-member Topix Real Estate Index rose to the highest
in a week, gaining 1.9 percent at the close of trading in Tokyo
today. The Tokyo Stock Exchange REIT Index advanced 1.2 percent,
the biggest gain in two weeks.  REITs Buying  Japanese real estate investment trusts, known as J-REITs,
are leading the charge after a 28 percent gain in their shares
since Abe took office has made it easier to raise funds to
acquire properties. The Tokyo Stock Exchange REIT Index has
risen 23 percent so far this year.  J-REITs may sell about 900 billion yen of shares this year
to help pay for acquisitions that will probably total 2.5
trillion yen, said  Yoji Otani , a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG. The figures would exceed the 848 billion yen in
financing and 1.9 trillion yen in purchases in 2006, both
records, Otani said.  “Some of the J-REITs and some of the property companies
are willing to purchase very aggressively right now to lock into
what they believe would be an improvement in the market,”
Savills’s Mancini said. “You can expect prices going forward
will continue to improve.”  Selling Properties  Nippon Building Fund, Japan’s biggest REIT, has spent 156.8
billion yen on office buildings this year, including a Tokyo
tower it bought with other investors from  Sony Corp. (6758)  for 111.1 
billion yen. The REIT may acquire more than 50 billion yen a year 
if there are good properties, Kenichi Tanaka, president and chief 
executive officer of Nippon Building Fund Management Ltd., which 
manages the REIT, said in an interview in November. The amount the 
REIT has spent so far this year is more than three times that.  The capitalization rate, a measure of investment yield, for
office properties in Tokyo fell to 5.2 percent in May from a
record high of 5.5 percent in October, according to Real Capital
Analytics Inc. A drop in the cap rate, which is a property’s net
income divided by the purchase price, usually signals an
increase in real estate prices.  1980s Bubble  The number of listed Japanese companies that sold
properties in the 12 months ended March 31 rose 20 percent to
60, the first increase in eight years, amid corporate
restructurings and ramped up acquisitions by J-REITs, according
to  Tokyo Shoko Research Ltd.  Selling prices totaled 305.8
billion yen, more than triple the 99.7 billion yen of properties
sold a year earlier, it said.  Japan ’s real estate market was a key part of the asset-price bubble of the 1980s, when economic growth, loose monetary
policy and bank lending led to speculation on property and sent
the Nikkei 225 Stock Average to its peak in 1989. The Nikkei is
two-thirds off that high and residential land prices in Tokyo
are one-third of their peak in 1988.  Abe has promised to loosen business regulations and
increase government support to help Japan’s industry as part of
the “third arrow” of a three-pronged strategy to end
deflation, following fiscal and monetary stimulus.  His plan includes creating incentives to attract foreign
investment and boosting the competitiveness of major cities in
Japan. The government may also consider relaxing development
rules in certain zones to meet demand for office buildings and
residential space in metropolitan areas, it said.  Attracting Capital  The BOJ, which under Governor Haruhiko Kuroda unveiled a
plan in April to target a 2 percent inflation rate, has acquired
138.7 billion yen of REIT shares since December 2010 to help
support the market.  The world’s third-largest economy grew at an annualized 4.1
percent in the first three months of this year, the fastest
expansion in a year, the government said last month.  Investors are responding. AXA Real Estate, a unit of
 Europe ’s second-largest insurer, bought two office buildings in
central Tokyo this year for 10 billion yen and plans to double
the acquisitions by the end of the year, said Hidetoshi Ono, the
head of Japan Core Fund at AXA Real Estate in  Singapore .  “More and more capital -- domestic and foreign -- is going
after real estate,” said Ono. “The good news is that there are
much more transactions happening this year than last year. The
bad news is prices are getting higher.”  Retail Properties  Prime retail properties may benefit as  consumer confidence 
increases, according to Akagi of Jones Lang LaSalle in Tokyo.
Abe’s plan to increase  government spending  helped bolster
 consumer confidence  in May to the highest level since 2007.  Parco Co. (8251) , a Tokyo-based shopping-center operator, bought
two buildings in Fukuoka City, in southwestern Japan, for 26.5
billion yen in March, the company said in a statement. SEB Asset
Management, a Frankfurt-based  investment company , said in April
it sold a mall in Chiba for 100 million euro ($131 million), 13
percent more than it paid for the property in 2009.  The capitalization rate for retail properties in Tokyo fell
to 4.2 percent in the second quarter, the lowest since Real
Capital Analytics started compiling the data in 2009, from 6
percent in the previous quarter. The cap rate for the same type
of properties in  Osaka  narrowed to 5.7 percent in the second
quarter from 7.6 percent three months earlier, it said.  Revenue Forecast  Mitsubishi Estate Co. (8802) , Japan’s largest developer by market
value, said revenue generated from its retail space will
probably reach a record this fiscal year.  Mitsui Fudosan Co. (8801) ,
the biggest developer by sales, said it expects full-year profit
to rise for the first time in four years, as new malls opened
during the reporting period that ended March 31 contribute to
leasing revenue. Both companies are based in Tokyo.  Mitsui Fudosan was raised to overweight from equal weight
on June 25 by Takashi Hashimoto at Barclays Plc with a target
price of 3,400 yen. The shares rose 1.3 percent to 3,225 yen
today in Tokyo. Among 25 analysts who cover Mitsubishi Estate,
16 have buy recommendations for the stock, while only one
advises to sell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Prime office, commercial and residential properties in
major centers such as Tokyo will probably benefit as more people
from regional areas move to the cities, said billionaire Akira Mori. His Mori Trust Co., the nation’s most profitable closely
held developer, may buy more land after it accumulated about
10,000 tsubo (33,000 square meters or 355,210 square feet) of
space in central Tokyo, depending on how well Abe’s growth plan
is implemented, 76-year-old Mori said in an interview.  Limited Recovery  “Land prices rose across the board during the bubble
period in the 1980s,” said Mori. “This time, with an inflation
target of 2 percent and economic growth, real estate will
certainly benefit. However, unlike the bubble in the ’80s, the
recovery will only be limited to certain areas.”  Some are skeptical that Abe’s policies will attract more
foreign companies.  “I cannot identify any policy that I think is going to
lead to any long-term growth, long-term inflation or any
increase in demand in  office space  or high rents,” Seth Sulkin,
a representative director at Tokyo-based real estate and asset
manager Pacifica Capital KK, said.  A government policy to enable developers to build taller
buildings is primarily going to benefit Mitsubishi Estate and
Mitsui Fudosan or other big developers and won’t have any impact
on the overall real estate market, Sulkin said.  Vacancy Rates  Still, the office vacancy rate in Tokyo’s central five
wards fell for a third month in May to 8.3 percent, according to
Tokyo-based  Miki Shoji Co. (MIKIMT07)  It hit a record a record 9.4 percent
in June last year.  The vacancy rate rose to 8.46 percent last month as tenants
left their current locations to move into new buildings, Miki
Shoji said today.  The number of prime sites throughout Japan where values
increased rose to 80 out of 150 locations as of April 1, from 51
sites three months earlier, according to government data. It was
the first time since 2007 that more than half of the places
recorded increases.  “Tokyo stands out as a bright spot on a global stage when
investors consider where to put their money,” said Akagi of
Jones Lang LaSalle. “It’s no doubt Abenomics is immensely
positive for the real estate market and has a huge impact and
property prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  