-- Lagarde May Be Called as Witness in Bankia Fraud Investigation
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-07-10T11:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/lagarde-may-be-called-as-witness-in-bankia-fraud-investigation.html
Private prosecutors driving an
investigation into allegations of fraud at  Bankia SA (BKIA)  requested
that International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  be called as a witness, court papers show.  Lawyers for Union, Progress & Democracy, the Spanish
political party whose complaint triggered the probe, asked Judge
Fernando Andreu to call Lagarde and another IMF official to
answer questions about what they told Spanish authorities in the
months before the ouster of  Rodrigo Rato , a former IMF chief
himself, as Bankia chairman in May 2012, according to court
filings dated today.  The filings show Lagarde is only being called as a witness
and the UPD lawyers make no suggestion that she or other
officials working for the IMF did anything wrong. A spokeswoman
for the IMF, who asked not to be named, declined to comment.  Prosecutors are trying to discredit Rato’s argument that
Bankia was a victim of the rapid deterioration of the Spanish
economy as the  European debt crisis  intensified after the
lender’s July 2011 initial public offering. The former deputy
prime minister is battling a potential jail term over the
collapse of Bankia which forced Spain to seek a 41 billion-euro
rescue package from the European Union.  IMF Report  UPD representatives Andres Herzog and Maria Jose Bueno
Ramirez said in the petition that they want to question Lagarde
about three meetings she had with Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos in the first months of 2012 when Valencia, Spain-based Bankia’s problems were discussed. They also seek to study
an IMF report from April 25, 2012, highlighting one large
Spanish bank that required swift action to bolster its balance
sheet, the filing shows.  The questions for Lagarde will focus on four areas: when
Bankia became a serious problem in the fund’s view; Bankia’s
capital needs; the difference between the IMF’s assessment and
that of the Bank of  Spain ; and the fund’s intentions in
publishing the April 25 report.  Rato, named as an official suspect last year over
allegations including false accounting and embezzlement, has
played down expressions of concern from the IMF before Bankia’s
22 billion euro ($28 billion) bailout, the filing shows. The
lender’s former chairman said in court testimony cited in
today’s filing that he interpreted the April 25 report as an
endorsement of his plans to clean up the lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  