-- Hagel Outlines ‘Abrupt, Deep’ Cuts of $52 Billion Ahead
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-07-10T19:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/hagel-outlines-abrupt-deep-cuts-of-52-billion-ahead.html
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said
today that if faced with $52 billion in automatic cuts next
year, the Pentagon would do its best to “seek management
efficiencies and controls on compensation growth before making
cuts to force structure, modernization and readiness.”  Even so, Hagel said in a letter to lawmakers, “funding for
hundreds of program line items, large and small, would have to
be cut significantly. We would be forced to buy fewer ships,
planes, ground vehicles, satellites and other weapons.”  He outlined his views on what he called “abrupt, deep”
cuts under the process called sequestration in the letter to the
Senate Armed Services Committee that was obtained today by
 Bloomberg News .  The letter to Democratic Senator  Carl Levin  of  Michigan ,
the commitee’s chairman, and Republican  James Inhofe  of
 Oklahoma , its top Republican, was in response to their request
for information on the impact if automatic cuts continue next
year, as will happen unless President  Barack Obama  and Congress
renew moribund efforts to agree on an alternative budget-cutting
plan. The Pentagon is absorbing $37 billion in  reductions  in the
current fiscal year that ends Sept. 30.  The letter didn’t disclose steps Hagel is weighing under a
“strategic choices and management review” that he has ordered.  “These options cannot avoid serious damage to our military
capabilities,” Hagel wrote.  While defense  contractors  largely escaped cuts under
sequestration this year, Hagel said that next year the Pentagon
“would be forced to sharply reduce funding” by as much as 20
percent for procurement, research and development and military
construction.  Reduced investments in weapons programs would cause
disruptions that “would spill over to the defense industry,”
where “jobs would be lost and, as prime contractors pull back
to protect their internal work forces, small businesses may
experience disproportionately large job losses,” Hagel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  