-- Thai Stock Index Drops to Two-Week Low on Growth: Bangkok Mover
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-07-10T10:19:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/thai-stock-index-drops-to-two-week-low-on-growth-bangkok-mover.html
Thailand’s  stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index to a two-week low after the central bank
forecast lower growth for the nation’s economy.  The 506-member  SET Index (SET)  slid 0.7 percent to 1,388.41, its
lowest close since June 25. Sansiri Pcl, the country’s largest
residential property developer by sales, dropped 9.8 percent,
its biggest loss since March 2010.  True Corp. Pcl (TRUE) , the nation’s
third-biggest mobile-phone operator, slumped 9.2 percent, while
Central Plaza Hotel Pcl tumbled 11 percent.  The Bank of Thailand, which held its  key rate  unchanged at
2.5 percent today, said economic growth will be less than 5
percent this year, compared with a previous estimate of 5.1
percent. The central bank will announce a new target on July 19,
Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan told reporters. The
authority will monitor the global economy and expects inflation
pressure to remain benign on lower oil prices, he said.  “The central bank’s statement reaffirms investors’ concern
about  Thailand ’s slowing economic growth,” Sasikorn Charoensuwan, the head of research at Phillip Securities
(Thailand) Pcl in Bangkok, said by phone today. “Trading volume
in the Thai stock market also fell significantly on concern
about  China ’s growth slowdown and U.S. monetary policy.”  Shares worth 46 billion baht ($1.5 billion) traded today,
16 percent below the daily average in the three months to
yesterday, exchange  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. Minutes for
the U.S. Federal Reserve’s last policy meeting are due later
today, while data in Beijing showed China’s exports and imports
unexpectedly declined in June.  Foreign Selling  The SET has plunged 15 percent since May 22, part of a rout
in emerging-market equities that was fueled by Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke saying policy makers may scale back
stimulus efforts if U.S. jobs market improves. The slump
reversed the SET’s  climb  this year of as much as 18 percent to a
0.3 percent loss. The gauge surged 36 percent in 2012.  Overseas investors sold a net $198 million of Thai shares
in July through yesterday, heading for a fourth straight month
of outflows,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. Foreigners had net
sales of $1.8 billion in June, the most since May 2010, the data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  