-- Thailand Holds Rate as Baht Retreat Reduces Pressure to Ease
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-07-10T08:44:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/thailand-holds-rate-as-baht-s-retreat-reduces-pressure-to-ease.html
Thailand  kept its benchmark interest
rate unchanged, as the baht’s retreat from an almost 16-year
high damps pressure for further monetary easing and allows
policy makers to guard against growing household debt.  The  Bank of Thailand  maintained its one-day bond  repurchase
rate  at 2.5 percent, with monetary policy committee members
voting unanimously to hold, it said in Bangkok today. Seventeen
of 18 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  predicted the
decision, while one expected a reduction to 2.25 percent.  “There was no pressure on them from the baht’s side as the
currency has retreated,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a foreign-exchange
trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in Bangkok. “Unless the
economic condition deteriorates further from here, the central
bank may keep it on hold for the rest of this year.”  Since the Southeast Asian nation cut borrowing costs in May
to support growth, capital outflows from the region have caused
the baht to fall after reaching its strongest level since 1997
in April. Central bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul last
month cited household debt that’s equivalent to 78 percent of
gross domestic product as a risk for Thailand, saying monetary
policy should be used to ensure price and financial stability.  Stocks Fall  “The central bank already took a preemptive move to cut
the rate earlier, so they can take a wait and see approach
now,”  Usara Wilaipich , a Bangkok-based economist at Standard
Chartered Plc, said before the meeting. “There is still
downside risk to growth, but concerns on financial stability are
likely to outweigh that.”  Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  of stocks extended declines after the
announcement, and traded 1.3 percent lower as of 3:39 p.m in
Bangkok. The baht, which has fallen more than 1 percent in the
past month, rose 0.2 percent to 31.24 per dollar. It is the best
performer after the Chinese  yuan  in the past 12 months among 11
Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Selling in Thai stocks and bonds intensified in May on
concern the U.S. Federal Reserve will pare back monetary
stimulus, resulting in $1.37 billion of outflows from financial
markets, up from $44 million in April, according to the  central
bank’s data as of end-June .  Baht Factor  “When the Bank of Thailand cut the rate at the last
meeting, a lot of that centered around the strength in the Thai
baht,” Lim Su Sian, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in
 Singapore , said in a Bloomberg Television interview before the
decision. “Now a lot of the pressure, I think, is removed
because the Thai baht has gone the other way.”  Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong, who had urged the
central bank to cut rates to help discourage inflows that were
boosting the baht earlier this year, said last week recent fund
outflows aren’t a concern because Thailand experienced
significant fund inflows earlier in 2013.  Still, policy makers may remain under pressure to support
economic expansion. The central bank said today growth will be
less than 5 percent this year, compared with a current estimate
of 5.1 percent, saying it will announce new forecasts on July
19. The authority will monitor the global economy and financial
stability, and expects inflation pressure to remain benign on
lower oil prices, Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan
told reporters.  The Finance Ministry in June lowered its 2013 growth
forecast to 4 percent to 5 percent from 4.8 percent to 5.8
percent previously because of the slow recovery experienced by
its trade partners and easing private-sector spending. The
central bank has also said it would cut its 7.5 percent export
growth forecast for 2013.  Inflation Slows  “We already foresaw the slowing economy; that’s why we cut
the rate last time to support economic growth,” Paiboon said.
“Given the current information, the 2.5 percent rate is an
appropriate level. If the global economy and local economy
change going forward, we will assess the data and that may lead
to proper policy action.”  While household debt hasn’t reached dangerous levels yet,
the central bank will closely monitor it, and there are signs
the situation may improve, he said.  The impact of monetary policy on the economy has a lag time
and it’s hard to predict when or whether commercial banks will
adjust rates after a policy move, the assistant governor said.
Supply problems such as labor shortages and infrastructure can’t
be fixed by monetary policy, Paiboon said.  “Don’t rely too much on monetary policy,” he said. “It’s
not the only answer for the Thai economy.”  ‘Dovish Tone’  Consumer price  gains have slowed for six straight months,
reaching 2.25 percent in June.  Core inflation , used by the
central bank to guide monetary policy, was 0.88 percent last
month, below the authority’s ceiling of 3 percent.  “In light of the recent market volatility, the risk to a
further rate cut this year has significantly declined,” said
Eugenia Fabon Victorino, a Singapore-based economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “We still expect the
central bank to maintain a dovish tone at the prospect of lower
than expected GDP growth in 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  