-- AirAsia X Has Second-Worst Trading Debut in Malaysia
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-07-10T04:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/airasia-x-rises-after-long-haul-budget-carrier-310-million-ipo.html
(Corrects to clarify total proceeds from the IPO in first
paragraph.)  AirAsia (AIRA)  X Bhd., the long-haul arm of
Asia’s biggest budget carrier, had the second-worst trading
debut in  Kuala Lumpur  in a year after completing a 988 million
ringgit ($310 million) initial public offering.  The carrier closed at 1.25 ringgit in Kuala Lumpur, same as
the offer price. It was the country’s most actively traded stock
with more than 160 million shares changing hands. The benchmark
 FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  rose 0.1 percent.  The share sale will help AirAsia X to take on debt to
expand its fleet as the carrier plans to set up hubs in Thailand
and Indonesia along with its partners, Chief Executive Officer
Azran Osman-Rani said in an interview today. The IPO last month
survived market turmoil brought on by concerns that the U.S.
Federal Reserve will reduce stimulus and  China ’s economic
slowdown may deepen.  “Right from the beginning we didn’t expect much from the
initial listing,” said Ang Kok Heng, who bought the stock in
the IPO as chief investment officer at Phillip Capital
Management Sdn., where he helps manage $428 million. “This
stock is meant for the long run.”  AirAsia X may also consider an additional hub in  Chennai  in
south  India , Azran said in a Bloomberg Television interview with
 Rishaad Salamat . The hubs in Thailand and Indonesia will help
the carrier fly to Australian and Asian cities that are
currently served from its Malaysian base, he said.  Fleet Expansion  The airline’s fleet will rise to 15 this week as it takes
delivery of its 13th Airbus SAS A330-300, Azran said. AirAsia X,
a spin-off from  Tony Fernandes ’ AirAsia Bhd., is adding more
aircraft as it seeks to fend off rising competition from
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) ’s long-distance budget unit Scoot that
started flying last year.  Discount  airlines  in Southeast Asia ordered at least 1,000
new aircraft in the past five years as economic expansion
enables more people in countries such as Indonesia, Thailand and
Vietnam start flying. Some 15 low-fare carriers started
operations in the past decade across Asia-Pacific, the most
profitable region worldwide for at least the fourth consecutive
year, according to the  International Air Transport Association .  Shares of AirAsia fell 0.6 percent to 3.21 ringgit, paring
its gain this year to 17 percent.  Market Value  AirAsia X, which has a market value of about 3 billion
ringgit, priced its IPO at 1.25 ringgit per share for both
institutions and individuals. The company, based in Sepang,
Malaysia, had marketed  shares  to institutional investors at 1.15
ringgit to 1.45 ringgit.  AirAsia X follows  Astro Malaysia Holdings Bhd. (ASTRO)  in closing
unchanged on the first day of trading in Kuala Lumpur in the
past year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CLIQ Energy
Bhd. (CLIQ)  was the only stock to fall on its debut in the city in the
past 12 months, dropping 24 percent, the data show.  Tune Ins Holdings Bhd. (TIH) , an insurance company also set up by
Fernandes, had the third-worst start, rising 0.7 percent on its
first day of trade in February, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The IPO of AirAsia X is the second of the three proposed
listings by affiliates of AirAsia as the group raises funds to
accelerate expansion. In December, the airline ordered 100
Airbus A320s valued at $9.4 billion, in addition to the 200 it
had agreed in 2011 to purchase. The carrier is also adding a
unit in India through a venture with  Tata Group .  Indonesia Plans  AirAsia’s Indonesian venture may sell shares in the fourth
quarter, Fernandes said last month in Chennai. The carrier
expects to raise $250 million from the IPO, he said.  Budget carriers’ market share in the Asia-Pacific region
rose to 24 percent last year from 1.1 percent in 2001, according
to the CAPA Centre for Aviation, an industry consultancy.  Total traffic for the region will expand 6.4 percent a year
during the next 20 years, according to Boeing Co. In that period,
almost half of the world’s air traffic growth will be driven by
travel to, from or within the Asia-Pacific region, the
planemaker said.  Airlines globally are likely to generate net income of
$12.7 billion in 2013 as capacity cuts help pack planes to
record levels, IATA said last month. Carriers in all regions
should post a profit this year, led by airlines in Asia with
projected earnings of $4.6 billion and  North America  with $4.4
billion, according to IATA .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  