-- Half of Banks Have Punished Employees for Corruption, E&Y Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   M o r t i m e r   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-07-10T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/half-of-banks-have-punished-employees-for-corruption-e-y-says.html
Half of financial firms with an
anti-corruption policy have punished employees who have breached
regulations, according to a report published today by Ernst &
Young LLP.  Financial services firms are more likely to act if they
suspect corruption than other companies, the accounting firm
said in the survey. Nearly 70 percent of individuals in finance
said their employer had clear penalties for breaking money
laundering rules, compared with 49 percent across all
industries.  Regulators around the world have cracked down on fraud and
corruption after the 2008 financial crisis. The U.S. fined  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  $1.9 billion last year over claims the lender gave
terrorists and drug cartels access to the U.S. financial system.
Standard Chartered Plc also agreed to pay $667 million to U.S.
regulators after they alleged the bank helped Iran launder $250
billion.  “The damage to  shareholder value  that can arise as a
result of misreporting or corruption can be far greater than
regulatory sanctions,” Sanjay Bhandari, a fraud investigator at
Ernst & Young, said in an e-mailed statement. “The reputational
damage” can last for years, he said.  Nearly one in 10 executives who work in the financial
services industry said they were aware of salespeople reporting
revenue early to make their current quarter look better,
according to the survey.  The survey questioned nearly 3,500 employees of large
companies, including 458 individuals in the financial industry,
in 36 countries across  Europe , the  Middle East ,  India  and
Africa.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Mortimer in London at 
 nmortimer1@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  