-- Allscripts Rises on Contract Extension With North Shore
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-07-10T14:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/allscripts-rises-on-contract-extension-with-north-shore.html
Allscripts Healthcare Solutions
Inc. (MDRX) , the electronic medical-records provider that lost half its
market value last year, rose the most in almost 5 months after
receiving a contract extension from its largest customer.  North Shore-LIJ Health System, a network of 16 hospitals in
New York, agreed to a five-year contract extension for technical
services, Allscripts said in a statement yesterday. The deal
helped boost contract backlogs to $3.1 billion as of June 30,
about a 13 percent increase quarter-over-quarter, Chicago-based
Allscripts said in a separate statement today.  Investors had speculated that North Shore-LIJ would drop
its services with Allscripts when its contract expires, said
Greg Bolan, an analyst with Sterne Agree in a note today to
clients. Allscripts has had a year of turmoil after it fired
Chief Executive Officer Glen Tullman, who had led the company
since 1999, in December amid shareholder questions about its
leadership and a failed effort to sell itself.  “This agreement further builds on Allscripts’ relationship
with its largest customer and serves as another sign of
validation in the long-term turnaround plant that the company is
pursuing,” said  Michael Cherney , an analyst with ISI Group LLC
in New York a note to clients today.  Bookings, an indication of future sales, likely exceeded
$200 million in the second quarter compared with $194 million in
the same period a year earlier, Allscripts said in the statement
ahead of its scheduled earnings announcement Aug. 8.  “I am pleased to report tangible progress with several of
our strategic initiatives,” said Allscripts CEO Paul Black in a
statement. “Our focus on client obligations is beginning to
deliver results as we see improving confidence from both inside
and outside the Allscripts client base.”  Allscripts rose 5.5 percent to $14.11 at 10:05 a.m. in  New
York  trading. The shares rose as much as 8.6 percent for their
biggest intraday gain since Feb. 20. The stock gained 42 percent
this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  