-- Anglo CEO Set to Cough Up for Fine Wine After Gold Wager
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-07-10T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/anglo-ceo-to-cough-up-for-fine-wine-on-gold-wager-bristow-says.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL)  Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Cutifani  will need to splash out on fine wine in
October when he loses a bet that the Kibali mine won’t produce
gold this year,  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  CEO  Mark Bristow  said.  “It’s still on track and it’s still within budget,” he
said yesterday. “I’m in no doubt that Mr. Cutifani is going to
have to cough up for a very expensive South African red wine.”  The two made their wager on when output would begin at the
 Democratic Republic  of Congo mine two years ago at an investor
conference in Miami when Cutifani was the head of  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , like Randgold a 45 percent owner of Kibali.  Cutifani offered to buy South African wine if it produced
gold this year and an Australian vintage if output began in
2014. Bristow is South African and Cutifani from Australia.  Either way, the outcome of the bet won’t compensate for the
35 percent slump in  gold prices  to $1,255 from their peak of
$1,921 in 2011 that’s squeezing companies’ profits. The industry
needs major restructuring and must refocus on higher-grade ore
that can be mined in quantity to reduce costs, Bristow said.  Kibali will help raise Randgold’s annual production to more
than 1.2 million ounces by 2014 from about 800,000 in 2012,
according to Bristow’s Johannesburg presentation yesterday. The
mine will produce at least 30,000 ounces this year, 550,000 in
2014 and average about 600,000 ounces in its first eight years.  Randgold’s preferred exploration areas are West and Central
Africa and Russia, with South American risks making it hard to
run profitable mines even with deposits that are attractive,
Bristow said. “ South America  carries much more risk than
Africa,” he said. “Colombia makes Mali look like a walk in the
park. We don’t have to arrive there in armored vehicles.”  Randgold is open to investing in Russia even with the
potential for government interference, Bristow said.  “If you’re not in Russia in the gold industry in the next
10 years, you’re going to be behind the curve,” he said. “We
look over the fence at Russia all the time.”  Emily Blyth, a spokeswoman for Anglo American, declined to
comment on behalf of Cutifani.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  