-- Martin’s Wound Backs Shooter’s Story, Pathologist Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   B o y d
-- 2013-07-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/martin-s-wound-backs-shooter-s-story-pathologist-says.html
Trayvon Martin was probably on top
of George Zimmerman and leaning forward when Zimmerman, a
 Florida  Neighborhood Watch volunteer accused of second-degree
murder, shot him through the heart, a forensic pathologist said.  Vincent Di Maio, a retired Texas medical examiner
testifying for the defense, told jurors that material evidence
from the shooting was consistent with what Zimmerman told
Sanford, Florida, police had happened. Zimmerman, 29, contends
he killed Martin in self-defense after he was punched and
knocked to the ground and his head was pounded on the pavement.  The bullet tore into the 17-year-old’s chest and passed
through his heart and right lung, Di Maio said yesterday in
state court in Sanford. He estimated that Martin’s hooded
sweatshirt was two to four inches from the barrel of Zimmerman’s
9 mm pistol when the shot was fired.  “The medical evidence, the gunshot wound, was consistent
with his statement,” Di Maio said during 3 1/2 hours of
testimony. “It’s consistent with someone leaning over.”  There were no eyewitnesses to the shooting itself.  Di Maio was among the final witnesses called by the
defense, which began presenting its case on July 5. Zimmerman’s
attorney, Mark O’Mara, told Seminole County Circuit Judge Debra
Nelson that he plans to finish his defense today after calling
more expert witnesses.  O’Mara hasn’t said whether Zimmerman will testify.  Crime Watch  Zimmerman, active in the crime watch group at his Sanford
townhouse complex, said in police statements that he and Martin
fought on a dimly lit sidewalk in the development on the rainy
evening of Feb. 26, 2012. Zimmerman said Martin straddled him
and slammed his head against the sidewalk before he drew his
weapon and fired a single shot.  Di Maio also testified that cuts and abrasions on
Zimmerman’s head were consistent with his statement that Martin
banged his head on the concrete walkway. A photo of Zimmerman’s
nose taken just after police arrived appeared to corroborate his
claim that Martin punched him in the face, he said.  Prosecutor Bernie de la Rionda asked Di Maio on cross
examination whether Zimmerman’s head wounds might have been
caused by a tree branch. Photos of the scene show small trees
near the sidewalk.  Di Maio said it was possible, although he didn’t see any
branches in the photos.  Easy Case  De la Rionda asked Di Maio how much he was paid in the
case. Di Maio replied $2,400 at $400 an hour. The analysis was
easy, he said.  “This is not a complicated case, forensically,” Di Maio
said.  The killing of an unarmed black teenager by a man whose
father is white and mother Hispanic prompted rallies and
protests across the U.S. and elicited a comment from President
 Barack Obama  that if he had a son, that child would have looked
like Martin.  Officials initially declined to arrest Zimmerman, saying it
appeared he had acted within the bounds of the state’s Stand
Your Ground law. The statute allows individuals who feel
threatened in a public place to “meet force with force.”  Zimmerman faces a possible sentence of life in prison if
convicted of second-degree murder.  The case is State of Florida v. Zimmerman, 1712FO4573,
Florida Circuit Court, 18th Judicial Circuit, Seminole County
(Sanford).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Boyd in state court in Sanford, Florida  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  