-- Asian Stocks Rise on China Speculation; Exporters Decline
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-07-10T11:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/asian-stocks-rise-led-by-raw-material-suppliers-ahead-of-boj.html
Asian  stocks  rose on speculation
 China  will introduce measures to stimulate the economy after
exports contracted by the most since 2009 as a stronger yen
pulled down Japanese exporters.  Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd. (1929) , the world’s biggest
jewelery chain had a record gain in  Hong Kong  after same-store
sales jumped on gold demand. Aeon Co.,  Japan ’s largest retailer,
rose 1.4 percent in  Tokyo  after reporting a 9.8 percent increase
in first-quarter operating profit. Fanuc Corp., a supplier of
factory automation systems, slipped 1 percent, pacing losses
among Japanese exporters.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 0.9 percent to 132.54 as
of 7:31 p.m. in Hong Kong, as the  Bank of Japan  begins a two-day
policy meeting. All of the 10 industry groups on the gauge
advanced, with about five shares falling for every four that
rose. The gauge pared earlier gains of as much as 0.8 percent
after Chinese exports unexpectedly fell in June.  “I don’t think China is a house of cards that’s about to
fall, but it is something that needs to be focused on,” said
 Tim Schroeders  at Pengana Capital. “It’s a risk for investors
in terms of how it’s managed from here on in. We expect more
policy response and greater detail about how they are going to
put their stamp on policy in the second half of this year.
Growth is at lower levels than what we’ve seen in the past 10
years.”  China’s Economy  The MSCI Asia Pacific index fell 9 percent through
yesterday from a five-year high on May 20 amid concern the U.S.
Federal Reserve will begin tapering stimulus as China’s economy
slows and Japan puts off unveiling economic reform policies
until after upper house elections later this month.  That left the gauge trading at 12.9 times average estimated
earnings compared with 15 for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
and 13.1 times for the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 0.4 percent, paring
gains of as much as 1.4 percent after the China export data. The
southern gauge closed at its highest since May 31 today. New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.7 percent.  Policy Speculation  South Korea ’s  Kospi index  slid 0.3 percent. Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index added 1.1 and the Shanghai Composite advanced
2.2 percent amid speculation that the trade data may prompt
government measures to bolster growth.  Chinese exports unexpectedly dropped 3.1 percent in June,
missing the median estimate of 39 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News who forecast a 3.7 percent gain from a year
earlier. The U.S. and China start two days of strategic and
economic talks today in  Washington .  World economic growth will struggle to accelerate this year
as a U.S. expansion weakens,  China’s economy  levels off and
Europe’s recession deepens, the  International Monetary Fund 
said. Global growth will be 3.1 percent this year, unchanged
from the 2012 rate, and less than the 3.3 percent forecast in
April, the Washington-based fund said yesterday, trimming its
prediction for this year a fifth consecutive time.  Topix Falls  Japan’s Topix index fell 0.1 percent, reversing earlier
gains of as much as 0.6 percent as the yen rose against the
dollar. The gauge is trading about 14 percent above the two-month low in June, having yesterday closed at the highest level
since May 22. The gauge last week capped its biggest increase
across three weeks since April 2009, amid a weakening yen and
optimism Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will push through economic
reforms after winning upper house elections on July 21.  Thirteen of 20 economists in a  Bloomberg News  survey
completed July 8 saw no extra BOJ policy loosening in the next
six months, a reversal from a poll in May. The central bank’s
board will leave the scale of its bond purchases unchanged at
the two-day meeting starting today, according to every economist
polled in the latest survey.  BOJ Stimulus  “The BOJ has got scope, given the context of policy
adjustments that they’ve announced, to do something further,”
said Pengana’s Schroeders. “A lot of the stimulus that has been
put in place over the last six to twelve months is yet to bite.
We’re yet to see confirmation across the broader economy that
things are working.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. U.S. stocks yesterday rose for a fourth day amid
optimism companies will report better-than-forecast earnings and
that economic growth is strong enough to withstand any reduction
in Federal Reserve stimulus.  Minutes of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s June 18-19
meeting will be released today and Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
will speak at a National Bureau of Economic Research conference.  Record Gain  Chow Tai Fook Jewellery surged 13 percent to HK$9.16 in
Hong Kong, the most ever, as the jewelery chain posted a 48
percent gain in same-store sales for the first quarter.  Aeon gained 1.4 percent to 1,398 yen in Tokyo after its
profit report, leading Bank of America analyst Hidehiko Aoki to
increase his price estimate on the shares by 8.7 percent to
1,500 yen.  CSL Ltd. (CSL) , an Australian maker of blood-derived therapies,
climbed 2 percent to A$65.96 in Sydney, a second day of gains.
The company will announce another share buyback of at least
A$900 million ($824 million) at its full-year earnings release
in August, Bank of America Corp. analyst Matthew Prior wrote in
a report, upgrading the shares to buy from neutral.  Chailease Holding Co. (5871)  jumped 6.9 percent to NT$67.9 in
Taipei after the leasing and finance company reported revenue
increased 21 percent in June to NT$2.21 billion ($73.6 million)
from a year earlier.  Japanese Exporters  Japanese exporters declined as the yen gained as much as
0.9 percent today. A stronger yen reduces the value overseas
income at carmakers and electronics manufacturers when
repatriated.  Fanuc slid 1 percent to 14,760 yen.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,
Japan’s second-biggest carmaker that gets about 83 percent of
sales from overseas, lost 0.9 percent to 3,810 yen. Sony Corp.,
the maker of Bravia televisions and PlayStation game consoles,
dropped 0.7 percent to 2,187 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  