-- Aussie, Kiwi Climb After Bernanke Says U.S. Still Needs Stimulus
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-07-11T07:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/aussie-kiwi-climb-after-bernanke-says-u-s-still-needs-stimulus.html
Australia ’s dollar surged to the
highest in two weeks after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  signaled there would be no immediate reduction in U.S.
stimulus that has helped boost asset prices across the world.  The Aussie rose for the third time in four days, rallying
from a three-week slide, and government bond yields fell. The
Australian economy unexpectedly added workers in June, while the
jobless rate rose to the highest in nearly four years. New
Zealand’s kiwi dollar touched a three-week high.  “A pretty clear dovish slant from Bernanke is seeing an
unwind of dollar longs,” said  John Horner , a currency
strategist in Sydney at Deutsche Bank AG. “Given that both the
Aussie and kiwi have been weighed on heavily by expectations of
the Fed tapering its bond purchases, both are benefiting now.”  The Australian dollar gained 1.1 percent to 92.75 U.S.
cents as of 4:42 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, after earlier
touching 93.06, the highest since June 27. The  yield  on the
benchmark 10-year bond fell as much as 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, 3.72 percent, the least since June 21.  The  New Zealand dollar  surged 1.3 percent to 79.40 U.S.
cents, after reaching 79.69, the most since June 19. It rose 0.2
percent to NZ$1.1682 per Aussie, after touching NZ$1.1640, the
strongest since November 2008.  “Highly accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable
future is what’s needed in the  U.S. economy ,” Bernanke said
yesterday after a speech in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage
debt each month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs in
the third round of its quantitative-easing stimulus program. The
purchases tend to devalue the U.S. currency.  ‘Fundamental Instability’  The  U.S. dollar  sell-off is “mostly a case of squeezing
positions which had built up, rather than anything more
fundamental about the Fed stance,”  Sebastien Galy , a foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York, wrote in
an e-mailed note. “Overall the reactions of the market are
fairly intense to small Fed nuances, an indication of some
fundamental instability or great uncertainty in the market.”  Bets that the greenback would gain against the Aussie
reached a record high last week, as Australia’s currency dipped
to a nearly three-year low of 90.37 U.S. cents.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a rise compared with those on a
decline -- so-called  net longs  -- was a record 70,515 on July 2,
figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show.  Worst Performer  Australia’s currency has tumbled 9.9 percent in the past
three months, the worst performer among 10 developed nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The U.S. dollar has gained 4 percent, while New Zealand’s
currency has fallen 5.3 percent.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  lowered its forecasts for
the Aussie, according to an e-mailed note, citing fresh forward
policy guidance from the Fed that reinforces a divergence in
U.S. and Australian interest-rate trajectories. CBA now sees the
Aussie at 92 U.S. cents at the end of this year and 85 at the
end of 2014, compared to 96 and 91 previously.  Australian  hiring  increased by 10,300 jobs in June,
compared with the median economist estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of no change. Hiring in May was revised to a decline of
700 workers, from an initially reported 1,100 gain. The  jobless
rate  rose to 5.7 percent, the highest since September 2009, as
the participation rate gained to 65.3 percent.  Rate Bets  “Because the  unemployment rate  gets buffeted around by the
participation rate, the market generally -- rightly or wrongly -
- looks first at  job creation ,” said  Sean Callow , a senior
currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney. “The
Aussie’s had a strong day on U.S. dollar weakness and the net
change in interest-rate pricing wasn’t very much.”  Swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show traders see a 64
percent chance the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will cut its
benchmark rate to an unprecedented 2.5 percent at its next
meeting on Aug. 6. The probability was 56 percent yesterday. The
key  rate  already stands at a record low of 2.75 percent.  Traders see about a 19 percent likelihood that New
Zealand’s central bank will raise its benchmark rate from a
record-low 2.5 percent by its December meeting.  The kiwi dollar was supported after data showed
 manufacturing  expanded in June. The Bank of  New Zealand  Ltd. and
Business NZ Performance of Manufacturing Index was 54.7, marking
the ninth-straight month it was at or above the 50 level that
divides expansion from contraction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  