-- Lawrence Ho to Invest in $630 Million Russian Casinos
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n   a n d   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-07-11T09:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/lawrence-ho-s-melco-summit-to-buy-russian-casino-stake.html
Lawrence Ho, son of Macau casino
mogul  Stanley Ho , is investing in two Russian gambling resorts
worth $630 million as he expands his businesses overseas.  Melco International Development Ltd. (200)  and  Summit Ascent
Holdings Ltd. (102) , both backed by Ho, will buy a combined 51 percent
stake in a holding company that will develop the two casino
hotels in the Primorye Region near China’s border, according to
the companies’ filings to the Hong Kong’s stock exchange
yesterday  “It’s a rather small investment for Lawrence, compared
with other projects he has in Macau,” Jeremy Tan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Kim Eng Securities Ltd., said by phone today.
“It enables Lawrence and his companies to have a first-mover
advantage tapping into the Northern Chinese and Russian
markets.”  Lawrence Ho is expanding his gambling business overseas and
in Macau, the world’s largest casino hub.  Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , his venture with   James Packer , is joining
Philippine billionaire Henry Sy’s  Belle Corp. (BEL)  to build a casino
resort in Manila. He is also developing a new resort on Macau’s
Cotai strip to compete with larger rivals.  Summit Ascent, whose shares were suspended on June 10,
resumed trading in Hong Kong today, soared 23 percent to close
at HK$4.27, the highest close since its listing in January 1994.
Melco International, a holding company for Melco Crown, rose 9
percent to close at HK$14.48. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI) 
gained 2.5 percent.  The projects are in the Primorye region on the Pacific
coast. Primorye’s capital, Vladivostok, is a two and a half hour
flight from Beijing.  The casinos will be built in a tourism zone that also
includes hotels, shops, an amusement park and a golf course.
Mainland tourists helped push  Macau ’s casino revenue to $38
billion last year.  Two Projects  Melco International will pay $980,392 for 5 percent of
Oriental Regent Ltd. while Summit Ascent will pay $9.02 million
for 46 percent of the same company whose unit has a gaming
license in the Primorye Region.  Both companies will also contribute money toward the
estimated $130 million cost of the project, based on their
percentage holdings, they said. Their partner in Oriental Regent
is Elegant City Group Ltd., a company owned by Oleg Drozdov, a
Russian businessman, Melco said.  Oriental is developing a resort scheduled to open in
September 2014 with a 119-room hotel and a casino with 800  slot
machines , 25 VIP gambling tables and 40 mass-market tables,
Melco and Summit Ascent said.  Separately, Summit Ascent also signed a preliminary
agreement for a joint venture that will develop another casino
resort in the same area. That casino requires a total investment
of about $500 million, it said.  The venture’s resort complex will have a four-star hotel
with about 300 rooms, a five-star hotel with about 200 rooms,
casino with about 500 slot machines, 100 VIP gambling tables and
70 mass-market tables.  Ho was appointed chairman of Summit Ascent, the company
said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Fellman in New York at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  