-- Barclays Unit Wins Dismissal of Regulator’s Lawsuit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-07-10T19:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/barclays-unit-wins-dismissal-of-regulator-s-lawsuit.html
A  Barclays Plc (BARC)  investment-banking
unit won the dismissal of the  National Credit Union
Administration ’s lawsuit accusing it of making misleading
statements about mortgage-backed securities to credit unions
that later failed.  U.S. District Judge John W. Lungstrum in Kansas City,
Kansas, today granted a defense motion to dismiss the case filed
last year, ruling it was time-barred. The judge said he has
seven similar NCUA lawsuits pending before him.  The unit formerly known as  Barclays Capital  was accused of
violating state and federal laws in the sale of more than $555
million in securities to the U.S. Federal Credit Union and the
Western Corporate Federal Credit Union in 2006 and 2007.  NCUA, an Alexandria, Virginia-based federal agency, is
responsible for recovering losses to minimize the costs to its
industry-paid stabilization fund.  Lungstrum ruled the regulator was required to file its
claims against Barclays no later than March 20, 2012, three
years after it was appointed conservator for the two failed
 credit unions . The case wasn’t filed until September of last
year.  John Fairbanks, a spokesman for the NCUA, said he couldn’t
immediately comment on the court’s decision. Barclays, based in
London, is the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets.  The judge, who in April threw out some claims in a separate
NCUA lawsuit against units of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  because
they too were untimely, reaffirmed that ruling in a separate
decision today.  “Congress intended that the right to sue be extinguished
at the expiration of the limitations period imposed by the
extender statute,” Lungstrum wrote.  The case is National Credit Union Administration v.
Barclays Capital, 12-cv-2631, U.S. District Court, District of
 Kansas  (Kansas City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  