-- Barnier Says EU Bank Fund Should Be Able to Tap Markets
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-07-10T11:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/barnier-says-eu-bank-fund-should-be-able-to-tap-markets.html
The European Union’s proposed fund
for handling euro-area  bank failures  should have the power to
seek market financing, EU financial services chief  Michel Barnier  said.  Under a European Commission presented today, the common
resolution fund would have the power to borrow from markets in
advance of any particular spending need, an EU official told
reporters in Brussels. This would allow the fund to tap
financial markets if it did not have enough cash on hand from
industry fees.  Barnier today proposed a single resolution mechanism for
euro-zone banks that will be supervised by the European Central
Bank beginning next year. The plan would establish a 55 billion-euro ($70.5 billion) common resolution fund financed by levies
on banks. As the fund is tapped to shore up banks, further
levies would be imposed to top it up.  “In the first few years of course, the funding for it will
be more modest,” Barnier told reporters. “Our intention is
that it should be able to borrow and draw upon alternative
differentiated forms of funding on the markets.”  The proposed joint fund builds on legislation that would
set standards for national procedures on shuttering or
restructuring failing banks. The bank resolution and recovery
rules, currently under negotiation between EU nations and the
European Parliament, would require each country to have funds
set aside to handle bank resolution, and those funds also would
be permitted to tap markets.  “Additional Funds’  In  materials  distributed to reporters, the commission said
that until the common fund is ‘‘sufficiently capitalized,’’ it
could ‘‘levy additional funds from the banking sector. It could
also borrow funds on the market. Under the draft Bank Recovery
and Resolution Directive, member states would be free to decide
what to do in this respect.’’  If the common fund takes shape as proposed, it would be
managed by an EU board and could borrow backed by the assets of
the banks it covers, the EU official said. The official
predicted that there would be plenty of market demand for debt
issued by the fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  