-- Batista Creditors Meeting With Cleary Gottlieb as OGX Bonds Sink
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-07-10T15:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/batista-creditors-meeting-with-cleary-gottlieb-as-ogx-bonds-sink.html
Law firms Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton LLP and Bingham McCutchen LLP are arranging separate
meetings with bondholders of billionaire  Eike Batista ’s OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA and  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  to discuss
Brazilian insolvency law.  Oil producer OGX’s $2.56 billion of 8.5 percent notes due
in 2018 have plunged 76.1 cents from their January high to 22
cents on the dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Shipbuilder OSX’s $500 million of 9.25 percent asset-backed
bonds due in 2015 have slipped 18.5 cents this year to 85 cents
on the dollar, the data show.  While OGX said today in an e-mailed response to questions
that it isn’t restructuring its dollar debt, investors are
losing confidence Batista can honor his obligations. OGX
announced earlier this month that it is considering halting
output at its only producing field and said it was scrapping
three other offshore projects. Barclays Plc estimates OGX may
finish the quarter with about $150 million  in cash , while Credit
Suisse Group AG said in a report last week the oil producer may
be left with about $13 million by year-end.  “We’re getting a lot of inquires about OGX and OSX, and
presentations like this can be helpful to our clients as they
assess strategy,” Bingham McCutchen’s Timothy DeSieno, a
partner at the firm, said in a phone interview. The law firm is
holding a presentation for clients in New York on July 15.  An OSX press official declined to comment.  Cleary Gottlieb is hosting a conference call tomorrow to
discuss challenges and risks faced by OGX and OSX creditors,
according Richard Cooper, a partner at the firm.  FTI Consulting
Inc. (FCN)  and Pinheiro Neto Advogados are participating in both the
Cleary Gottlieb call and the Bingham McCutchen meeting.  S&P Cut  Standard & Poor’s cut OGX’s credit rating to CCC last week,
eight steps below investment grade, and maintained its negative
outlook. Bonds rated CCC are currently vulnerable to nonpayment,
according to the rating company.  Batista announced last month that OGX and OSX parent
company EBX Group Co. restructured debt and only has long-dated
maturities. The restructuring “is clear evidence of EBX’s high
level of commitment toward its obligations with stakeholders,”
he said, without providing further details.  EBX said today in an e-mailed statement that it
restructured a “significant portion” of Abu Dhabi-based
Mubadala Development Co.’s $2 billion investment in the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ; 