-- Batman Producer Legendary Moving to Universal From Warner
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-07-10T20:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/batman-producer-legendary-said-moving-to-universal-from-warner.html
Legendary Entertainment LLC, co-producer of “The Dark Knight” films with Warner Bros., reached
a five-year agreement to make movies and TV shows with  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures .  The deal encompasses financing, production and
distribution, as well as theme-park projects, the companies said
today in an e-mailed statement. Financial terms weren’t
revealed. It starts after Legendary’s pact with  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros. expires at the end of the year.  The partnership gives Legendary Chief Executive Officer
Thomas Tull new outlets such as television and potentially parks
as he develops original projects such as “Pacific Rim,” a
movie opening this week. Universal, which has been without a
major co-financing partner, gains a well-funded ally in
Legendary, which raised $720 million to make films last year.  “Comcast and NBCUniversal’s global assets in film,
television and theme parks offer Legendary unmatched breadth and
opportunity to grow,” Tull said in the statement.  Legendary, headquartered on  Warner Bros .’ Burbank,
California, lot, reached the deal with Universal after holding
talks with all of Hollywood’s major studios, including Warner,
21st Century Fox Inc. and  Sony Corp. (6758)   “We have the utmost respect for Legendary and will
continue to work with them on a number of projects,” Warner
Bros. said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “We wish them
well.”  ‘Big’ Plans  In a June 18 meeting with reporters, Tull described his
plans as “pretty big in scope.” His films, including those co-owned with Warner, have collected $7.2 billion in worldwide
ticket sales, according to Legendary’s  website .  Universal also will have the opportunity to collaborate
with Legendary in planned co-productions Beijing-based China
Film Group, the companies said.  “The partnership is a perfect fit for both companies,”
NBCUniversal Chief Executive Officer Steve Burke said. “I am
confident that together we will be in an even better position to
deliver compelling, profitable entertainment content to a global
audience for years to come.”  Tull will continue to work with Warner on movies in
production including “300: The Rise of an Empire” and
“Godzilla.” They share interests in their existing films.  ‘Pacific Rim’  News of the Universal accord broke yesterday as Tull
attended the  Los Angeles  premiere of “Pacific Rim,” the
science-fiction/action movie that marks Legendary’s first big-budget solo production. The picture, starring  Idris Elba , is
being distributed by Warner Bros. and opens in theaters on July
12.  Legendary made its name working with Warner Bros. on films
based on comic-book heroes or science-fiction themes. In
addition to the Christopher Nolan Batman movies, the company co-produced and helped pay for movies including Nolan’s
“Inception” and the Superman reboot “Man of Steel.”  Warner Bros. has an separate funding partnership with
Village Roadshow Pictures, which has a $1.2 billion credit
facility and helped make “The Great Gatsby” and two “Sherlock
Holmes” films.  Warner is in discussions with another production/financing
company, New York-based Dune Capital, for $400 million or more
in movie financing that would help replace Legendary,
publications including  Hollywood Reporter  said this week.  Tull had a tense relationship with Jeff Robinov, who led
Warner Bros.’ film studio, people with knowledge of the
situation said earlier this year. Robinov left Warner and will
be replaced by a trio of executives who will oversee movie
development and production, the studio said on June 24.  Time Warner fell 0.4 percent to $61.01 at the close in  New
York . The stock has risen 28 percent this year. Comcast, based
in Philadelphia, rose 0.6 percent to $42.91 and is up 15
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  