-- Baucus-Camp Plans Fail to Converge on U.S. Multinationals: Tax
-- B y   M a r c   H e l l e r
-- 2013-07-10T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/baucus-camp-plans-fail-to-converge-on-u-s-multinationals-tax.html
As the top tax writers in Congress
travel the country to tout their effort to revamp the code, one
key element still has them on roads that don’t quite meet: how
to tax big multinational companies.  Michigan Republican  Dave Camp , who runs the House Ways and
Means Committee, says the U.S. should switch from a worldwide
tax system, where  companies are taxed  on profits earned
anywhere, to a territorial system that taxes few profits earned
outside the U.S. -- an idea supported by the  3M Co. (MMM) , the
lawmakers’ first stop on the tax reform tour this week.  Camp’s counterpart, Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, has stopped short of endorsing that
approach, suggesting instead that a “hybrid” system that takes
elements of each concept may be the way to go.  There’s little sign so far of how the two men and their
committees could forge a compromise on a slice of the code that
is at the heart of how and where companies like  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 General Electric Co. (GE)  structure some operations and pay taxes,
Bloomberg BNA reported.  Camp and Baucus have agreed in public statements that the
corporate  tax code  hurts business and needs to be updated to
keep more companies from moving operations overseas. A Senate
subcommittee estimates U.S. companies hold $1.7 trillion
overseas of earnings from operations.  The chairman of the  Ways and Means Committee  working group
that examined the issue, Republican Representative Devin Nunes
from  California , said lawmakers seemed to have some consensus on
the issues with the system as currently set up, yet he couldn’t
detect the contours of a compromise.  “I think right now, it’s too early to say,” Nunes said.  Alcoa to 3M  The issue of how to tax multinationals is one of the
biggest challenges in  tax reform . International tax is one of
the most complicated elements of the Internal Revenue Code,
practitioners said. It is also important enough to big
companies, such as 3M,  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and  Procter & Gamble Co . that
they have told Congress they are willing to give up corporate
 tax deductions  in order to achieve a more competitive
international tax system and lower corporate tax rates.  “Many corporations have different interests,” said Eric
Toder, an analyst at the non-partisan  Tax Policy Center .  Generally, companies with significant overseas operations
want to avoid the tax that hits them if they repatriate profits
from active businesses to their U.S. operations, he said.
Lawmakers on both sides of the debate agree that a repatriation
tax can cut down on potential business investment in this
country.  Hybrid Coming  The corporate world is pushing for a territorial system,
Toder said. Because no country has a pure territorial or
worldwide system, the question is really a technical one of how
to set up a system that perhaps leans more toward territorial --
to a point, he said.  Multinational corporations can avoid paying U.S. income tax
by conducting operations through a foreign-chartered subsidiary
that re-invests profits overseas, the Congressional Research
Service said in December. The tax deferral feature adds an
element of territoriality to the U.S. system, the group said.  Representative  Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican, told BNA in
April he was optimistic lawmakers could agree on a “hybrid”
solution that is more territorial and also taxes some worldwide
profits. Brady, a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee,
said chances were better than the rhetoric might suggest.  Many Democratic and Republican lawmakers agree that the
corporate tax system has evolved in a way that puts the U.S. at
a competitive disadvantage. The top corporate rate is 35 percent
and climbs to 39 percent when combined with state and local
taxes; most other industrialized nations use a territorial-type
system and have lower tax rates as well.  Ideas Floated  Canada trimmed its corporate tax rate, including national
and provincial taxes, to 26 percent from 36.1 percent in 2006.
 Germany  cut its rate to 29.55 percent from 38.34 percent. The
U.K. reduced its rate to 23 percent from 30 percent, KPMG
International says.  Still, a May Government Accountability Office report says
the effective rate for U.S. corporations was 12.6 percent in
2010 once various tax breaks are considered, sharply less than
the statutory rate triggering the complaints.  Tax experts have floated several ideas for moving to a more
territorial system, if not a pure one.  In a 2001 paper published by the  American Enterprise
Institute , Harry Grubert and John Mutti recommended exempting
dividends from foreign subsidiaries to U.S. parent companies and
taxing other income such as interest and royalties, according to
the  Congressional Research Service . That plan would add $7.7
billion annually in federal revenue, the authors predicted.  Modified Plans  The Ways and Means Committee proposed a modified version of
the Grubert and Mutti plan, offering some relief for royalties
and maintaining revenue neutrality by levying a one-time tax on
accumulated earnings. In the long run, that version would lose
revenue, CRS said.  The Finance Committee, in a paper prepared by Democratic
and Republican staff, outlined possibilities including exempting
95 percent of dividends a foreign subsidiary pays its U.S.
parent. At that rate, expenses related to exempt dividends and
gains could be made tax-deductible, staff said.  Alternatively, Congress could repeal the tax deferral
already in place, taxing all earnings while continuing to allow
a credit for foreign taxes paid, the committee reported. The
Obama administration has proposed limits on deferral.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  