-- Bengals’ Utecht Awarded Full-Year Pay in NFL Concussion Case
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-07-10T18:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/bengals-utecht-awarded-full-year-salary-in-nfl-concussion-case.html
Former Cincinnati Bengals tight end
Ben Utecht has been awarded a year’s salary in arbitration over
his 2009 release after suffering a concussion.  The National Football League Players Association argued
that Utecht, 32, hadn’t fully recovered and should have been 
paid for as long as it took him to return to the field after the
training-camp injury.  Arbitrator Richard Kasher said the Bengals failed to test
the player sufficiently, particularly in sports-specific
activities, before he was released and awarded him the remainder
of his salary for that season, according to the union.
Association spokeswoman Jilane Rogers said she didn’t know how
much money was involved.  “This decision upholds our players’ rights to continued
salary payments while injured and should provide important
guidance for players and clubs in determining when it is
appropriate to return to play after a player suffers a severe
concussion,” Tim English, an attorney for the NFLPA, said in a
statement.  The ruling will probably make it harder for teams to cut
injured players following brain injuries without rigorous
testing.  “The decision demonstrates that our collective bargaining
agreements provide players with comprehensive remedies for
football-related injuries, including injuries related to
concussions,” NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  said in an e-mail.  Concussion Cases  The NFL, the most popular U.S. sports league, is being sued
by thousands of former players who have accused it of negligence
and failing to inform them of the link between repeated
traumatic head impact and long-term brain injuries.  U.S. District Judge Anita Brody in Philadelphia this week
ordered the league and retired players to enter into settlement
talks with Layn Phillips, a former federal judge, as mediator.
She has asked for a progress report on talks by Sept. 3.  The case is In re National Football Players’ Concussion
Injury Litigation, 12-md-02323, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of  Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup in  New York  at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  