-- Berlusconi Halts Parliament Amid Pressure From Criminal Trials
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-07-10T16:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/berlusconi-halts-parliament-amid-pressure-from-criminal-trials.html
Former Italian Premier  Silvio
Berlusconi ’s lawmakers halted parliamentary sessions today,
protesting a decision by the country’s top court to schedule a
final appeal of his tax-fraud conviction this month.  The People of Liberty party pushed allies in the governing
coalition to vote for half-day suspensions in the Senate and
Chamber of Deputies after the highest court slated Berlusconi’s
trial hearing for July 30. That court date drew criticism from
Berlusconi’s lawyers and lawmakers as too soon. PDL’s Daniela
Santanche said on  Radio 24  she would bring down the government
if the vote wasn’t approved.  The demonstration of strength by Berlusconi’s forces backs
Prime Minister Enrico Letta and his government into a corner.
The 46-year-old prime minister is dealing with a contracting
economy and the downgrade yesterday of  Italy ’s sovereign debt by
 Standard & Poor’s . Letta needs to build consensus among his
coalition of rivals for a series of fiscal measures designed to
stimulate the economy and rein in public spending.  The suspension comes “out of respect” for the PDL’s
internal debate, Renato Brunetta, PDL chief whip in the Chamber,
said via Twitter Inc. after the vote. The Chamber was reconvened
temporarily at 3 p.m. in Rome for Letta’s question time. All
other appointments were postponed until tomorrow, a Chamber
spokeswoman said.  The tax-fraud conviction that Berlusconi is appealing
carries a four-year prison sentence and five-year ban from
public office, which can be enforced only when all appeals are
exhausted. Berlusconi, who is appealing guilty verdicts in three
separate cases, has denied all wrongdoing.  The top court said in an e-mailed statement today that it
was obliged to set the hearing before the statute of limitations
on some of the alleged crimes could expire. Berlusconi’s lawyer
Piero Longo said yesterday he expects Berlusconi will be
acquitted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  