-- Fink Says Banks Rules May Push Interest Rates Higher
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-07-10T16:40:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/blackrock-s-fink-says-banks-may-shrink-balance-sheets.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  Chief Executive
Officer Laurence D. Fink said rules requiring financial
companies to have higher capital ratios may result in an
increase in interest rates as banks shrink their balance sheets.  Banks reducing assets could limit reinvesting in government
securities, which might lead to higher rates if the Federal
Reserve starts to taper its bond purchases at the same time,
Fink, 60, said today in an interview with  Erik Schatzker  and
Sara Eisen on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  “If they shrink their balance sheet, we’re going to have a
more aggravated problem in the future because banks are the
largest owner of U.S. Treasuries,” Fink said. “This could be
another reason for a faster rise in interest rates.”  Under a proposal by U.S. regulators, the nation’s biggest
lenders would need to retain capital equal to at least 5 percent
of assets, and their banking units would have to hold a minimum
of 6 percent, according to a statement yesterday. The
international equivalent, ignoring the riskiness of assets, is 3
percent.  The plan affects the eight largest banks pegged as globally
important, or too big to fail:  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  State Street Corp. (STT)  and Bank of
New York Mellon Corp. The companies have until 2018 to fully
comply if the proposal is finalized.  Largest Shareholder  BlackRock, the world’s biggest money manager with $3.94
trillion in assets, is the  largest shareholder  of JPMorgan, Bank
of America and Citigroup and the second largest of Wells Fargo,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. If the plan is
approved, banks will have to either raise more equity or trim
their balance sheet, Fink said.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s capital rules,
which set requirements based on the perceived risk of a lender’s
assets, don’t go far enough because assets like U.S. government
debt require no offsetting capital, Fink said. For that reason,
yesterday’s proposal from U.S. regulators, which sets a minimum
ratio of capital to total assets, is an important step in
helping prevent bailouts, he said.  “If you really want to tackle too big to fail, you’re
going to have to do it through leverage ratios,” he said.
Because government securities have risk-weightings of zero,
Basel capital rules don’t affect them, “so institutions can
have very leveraged balance sheets and still conform to the
capital rules,” Fink said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has signaled that he is
prepared to start phasing out the central bank’s $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases later this year and halt buying around
mid-2014, as long as the U.S. economy’s performance meets the
Fed’s projections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  