-- BlackBerry Seeks Partners in Bid to Regain Clout
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-07-10T20:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/blackberry-seeks-partners-in-bid-to-regain-clout.html
BlackBerry Ltd. (BBRY) , struggling with
losses and a dwindling user base, has renewed its call for
partners that can help the smartphone maker get its software on
more devices and potentially share the burden financially.  Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins, speaking to
investors at the company’s shareholder meeting yesterday, said
he’s looking beyond licensing the BlackBerry 10 operating system
to other mobile-phone companies -- a long-stated goal that has
yet to pan out. Heins is considering a range of options in his
bid to turn around the company and mount a stronger challenge to
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android platform.  “Don’t think just narrowly in terms of licensing,” he
said at the meeting in BlackBerry’s hometown of Waterloo,
Ontario. “It could go into cars, so think broad.”  BlackBerry, which pioneered the smartphone market only to
lose ground to newer entrants, is under pressure to regain the
scale it once had. Its global subscriber base slipped to 72
million last quarter, down from 76 million in the previous three
months and 79 million before that. Spreading its software to
other companies, including carmakers, would help foster the
company’s ecosystem of hardware, applications and services.  Heins also is looking at fresh ways to cut costs, after a
job reduction that pared 5,000 positions. BlackBerry said
yesterday that Richard Piasentin, head of U.S. sales, has left
the company, a move reported earlier by the Wall Street Journal.  Polaris Program  The current belt-tightening program, called Polaris, is
about “really trimming and slimming the organization,” Heins
told reporters at the meeting. “It’s not like X thousand people
have to go.”  Seeking a financial investment is another possibility,
Heins said. While he didn’t give specifics, BlackBerry’s shares
rose after his remarks yesterday and posted their first daily
gain since a surprise quarterly loss on June 28 sent the stock
plunging 28 percent. The company said at the time that it
expected another loss in the current quarter amid weaker-than-estimated sales of its new Z10 touch-screen phone.  BlackBerry shares fell 3.7 percent to $9.28 at the close in
 New York . The stock has fallen 22 percent this year.  Ross Healy, chairman of Toronto-based financial advisory
firm  Strategic Analysis Corp.  and a BlackBerry shareholder, said
he welcomed Heins’s comments.  In Talks?  “I liked the fact he said they’re actively looking for
partnerships,” Healy said in an interview after the meeting.
“When someone says something like that, it’s not something you
just sort of pull out of thin air. It suggests that he’s at
least talking to people.”  Healy sees International Business Machines Corp., Google or
Microsoft Corp. as companies that could step in and help shore
up BlackBerry. IBM already works with BlackBerry to deliver
corporate services.  As companies install the new BlackBerry 10 operating
system, potential partners could see it as an opportunity to
supplement their own products, Healy said.  “It gives you confidence that a carrier or somebody like
IBM, Google or Microsoft would love to have the platform to add
some punch to their overall offering,” he said.  Areas for collaboration might include enterprise services,
Heins said. BlackBerry also announced plans in May to license
its popular BlackBerry Messenger instant-messaging application
to other platforms, including Android and the iPhone. The
service is used by about 60 million BlackBerry customers, who
rely on it to send more than 10 billion messages a day.  Heins didn’t give the names of any companies under
consideration, and representatives for Google, IBM and Microsoft
declined to comment.  “We will do our homework and assess what we think is best
for the company and then we will have discussions and they will
either yield partnerships, alliances or not,” said Heins, 55.  QNX System  BlackBerry already licenses its QNX software to automotive
and industrial partners, which rely on it to manage things like
in-car electronics. The company acquired that technology in 2010
and used it as the basis for BlackBerry 10. Still, getting those
kinds of customers to embrace the new BlackBerry software for
offering more sophisticated services would be a step further.  Heins, who became CEO in January 2012, began a review of
BlackBerry’s strategic options last year. While he hasn’t ruled
out finding an acquirer for the company, he’s said that he’s
more focused on striking a licensing deal or forging some other
partnership. When asked last month about the review, Heins said
he wouldn’t publicly discuss any board-level conversations the
company may or may not be having.  Market Share  BlackBerry’s share of the global smartphone market fell to
2.9 percent in March, bumping it to fourth place behind
Microsoft’s Windows Phone platform, according to research firm
IDC. Apple’s iOS and the Android operating system together
accounted for 92 percent of the market.  Heins asked investors for patience at yesterday’s meeting,
saying it was too early to gauge the success of BlackBerry 10,
the linchpin of its comeback effort. The company only began
rolling out the new phones about five months ago, and initial
sales aren’t an indication of its long-term prospects, he said.  “BlackBerry is still in the early phases of our
transition,” Heins said. “This isn’t just the launch of a new
product but a whole new platform.”  Heins was more convincing yesterday in laying out his
strategy for BlackBerry than he was on the June 28 earnings
conference call, said Jef Ten Kortenaar, an individual investor
who bought 3,000 BlackBerry shares last year.  “His vision for the company is an appropriate one,” he
said in an interview after the meeting. “If you have the
chutzpah to make it happen that could be a phenomenal thing, but
do they have the chutzpah to make it happen? I don’t know.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  