-- BlackRock Said to Sell Seattle Buildings for $70 Million
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-07-10T19:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/blackrock-said-to-sell-seattle-buildings-for-70-million.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
asset manager, agreed to sell two downtown Seattle office
buildings it bought near the market’s peak to a unit of  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , according to two people with knowledge of the deal.  The price is about $70 million for the buildings, known as
Market Place I and II, and a 426-stall garage, said the people,
who asked not to be named because the details are private. The
properties are located on Western Avenue near Pike Place Market,
one of Seattle’s main tourist attractions.  BlackRock, based in New York, bought the real estate in
2007 from Tishman Speyer Properties LP for $83.1 million, a
record at the time for a  Seattle  office purchase based on the
 price  per square foot. The Market Place buildings are seven
stories and four stories, respectively, and overlook Elliott Bay
and the Olympic Mountains.  About $6.5 billion of office buildings in Seattle changed
hands since the beginning of last year, making the city the
fourth most-active U.S. market for office sales after Manhattan,
 Los Angeles  and  San Francisco , according to Real Capital
Analytics Inc., a New York-based real estate research firm.  The deals included Amazon.com Inc.’s purchase of its
headquarters campus for $1.16 billion; and the $549 million sale
of 1201 Third Ave., which at 55 stories is the city’s second-tallest building, to a partnership including  MetLife Inc. (MET) 
Ivanhoe Cambridge, the real estate arm of Canada’s largest
pension fund, in June bought the 47-story Wells Fargo Center for
$390 million.  Farrell Denby, a BlackRock spokesman, and Matt Burkhard, a
spokesman for New York-based Morgan Stanley, declined to comment
on the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  