-- BMW Sees China as Top Market This Year on Smaller Cities
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-10T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/bmw-sees-china-as-top-market-this-year-on-smaller-cities.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s largest premium automaker, said China will probably
surpass the U.S. as its top national market in 2013 as the brand
enters more communities and wins buyers with the 5-Series sedan.  Deliveries in China, which overtook the company’s U.S.
sales in the first half, are likely to rise about 10 percent for
the full year, Karsten Engel, head of BMW’s business in China,
said in an interview in Beijing.  “Strong growth in future will come from the smaller
cities, and the strong growth will also come especially from the
western region,” Engel said. “There are 100 cities with more
than a million inhabitants in China with no premium car dealers
at all, so this shows the huge potential we’re having in this
country.”  Researcher Nielsen estimated yesterday that 68 percent of
China’s potential car buyers in the next 12 months will come
from residents of smaller cities. Munich-based BMW, which trails
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi brand in luxury-vehicle sales in China, has
outgrown its competitor in at least the past three years,
reporting a 40 percent delivery increase in 2013 against Audi’s
30 percent gain.  BMW isn’t concerned about moves by premium manufacturers
such as  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Cadillac and  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s
Jaguar Land Rover to boost production and capacity in China,
Engel said.  ‘Enjoying Competition’  “We’re enjoying competition,”  he said. “We always grew
with competition.”  BMW fell less than 0.1 percent to 69 euros at the close
yesterday in  Frankfurt . The stock has declined 5.4 percent this
year, valuing the company at 44.5 billion euros ($57.1 billion).  The manufacturer’s first-half sales in  China , including
deliveries by the Mini small-car brand, jumped 15 percent to
182,800 cars and sport-utility vehicles, BMW said on July 8.
That compares with a 9 percent gain to 172,787 deliveries in the
U.S. Ingolstadt, Germany-based Audi reported an 18 percent
increase in Chinese sales to 228,139 cars and SUVs in the
period, including figures from  Hong Kong .  China’s premium auto segment will probably increase 7
percent this year, Engel said. BMW’s growth plans will focus on
adding more than 60 dealerships this year to cover all of
China’s provinces, Engel said. The distribution network in the
country totaled 360 outlets at the end of last year.  Audi accounted for 29.6 percent of China’s luxury-vehicle
sales in 2012, while BMW had 23.6 percent of the market and
 Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz brand had 20.6 percent, according to
IHS Global Insight research company. China is already Audi’s
biggest national market.  Market Growth  Engel, 54, took over as the head of BMW in China in
January. He succeeded Christoph Stark, who retired after
overseeing a 15-fold sales jump in the country over eight years.
Engel, who was head of BMW’s German sales and marketing before
taking the Chinese post, has also worked at the carmaker’s South
Korean and Thai operations.  The BMW brand’s first-half sales in China, which increased
16 percent to 170,730 vehicles, were a record for the period,
the company said yesterday. The 5-Series, BMW’s best-selling
model in the country, posted a 28 percent gain, the carmaker
said.  Even with a slowdown in BMW’s Chinese sales growth from an
87 percent surge in 2010, Engel said he remains optimistic about
the company’s expansion.  “We sold 800 cars in the full year of ’94,” he said.
“Now we’re selling 900 cars a day.”  BMW’s planned i3 electric city car is likely to be
introduced in China in the second quarter of 2014, while the i8
hybrid sports car will go on sale later, Engel said. Customer
inquiries indicate the models will win buyers, even though the
vehicles won’t receive Chinese government subsidies because
they’ll be imported, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Beijing via 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  