-- BMW-Shipper Tegma Tries Online Platform While Stock Drops
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-07-10T19:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/bmw-shipper-tegma-tries-online-platform-while-stock-drops.html
Online sales that are increasing at
twice the global pace are luring  Tegma Gestao Logistica SA (TGMA3) ,
Brazil’s biggest shipper of new cars, even as investors  punish 
the stock for shifting away from the company’s core business.  Tegma aims to double  revenue  from shipping packages,
including orders through B2W Cia. Digital and other internet
retailers, to about 50 percent of sales from 25 percent now,
Chief Executive Officer Gennaro Oddone said, without specifying
a timeline. The unit will break even by year-end and “show
positive results” in 2014 after struggling with road robberies,
high labor costs and integrating acquisitions, he said.  The logistics company, whose main business is transporting
cars from  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  to  Hyundai (005380)  Motor Co., is
betting rising Internet shopping will offset slower growth in
the auto industry, Oddone said, as a weaker currency and rising
interest rates pare demand. Tegma  shares  have fallen 33 percent
this year and  analysts  have slashed their ratings since mid-February as the package-delivery unit’s performance caused
profit to tumble in recent quarters. The stock  rose  3.2 percent
to 24.25 reais at 4:08 p.m. in Sao Paulo trading.  “As in any new business that you enter, there is a
stabilizing curve of the process and we’re in this phase,”
Oddone, 53, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Sao Paulo
office. “Part of our negative results is linked to the
accelerated process of expansion to be able to prepare the
company for strong growth.”  Growth Potential  Brazil holds the most potential for online growth after
 China , with internet sales expanding an average of 29 percent in
each of the past five years compared with 13 percent globally,
according to the 2012 A.T. Kearney E-Commerce  Index . Online
purchases are still a fraction of those in the U.S. -- Kearney
estimates Brazilians spend $10.6 billion a year now, while
researcher eMarketer places U.S. internet purchases at about
$259 billion. The U.S. has a population of 314 million,
according to the U.S. census, compared to  Brazil ’s 191 million,
according to the Brazilian government.  Tegma, located in Sao Bernardo do Campo, Brazil, said in
May that first-quarter earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, known as Ebitda, plunged 52
percent as rising costs in non-auto operations eroded a 10
percent gain in overall revenue.  Bigger Risk  Tegma so far hasn’t been able to reduce the unit’s high
fixed costs, said Gabriel Gaetano, an analyst at Fator Corretora
SA. As an example, he cited Tegma spending a lot of money to
deliver packages to remote locations in the Amazon region, where
the company doesn’t have the volume to compensate the effort.  “The company should reduce operations and try to make this
business profitable,” Gaetano, who rates the company a hold,
said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “Theoretically,
if you restrict your deliveries, your growth will be restricted,
but you will make your operations more profitable.”  The bigger risk is security on the roads as robberies of
cargo are “in fashion,” Oddone said. “Today our big challenge
in this sector is risk management. There are areas with more or
less risk and this is part of our investment in risk management
intelligence to have the statistics to share with our clients.”  Analysts have been cutting their ratings on the stock since
mid-February, when most recommended buying shares. Of the 14
analysts who rate the stock, seven now recommend holding it and
one says sell.  Tegma, which controls about 20 percent of the e-commerce
market in Brazil, will keep investing in the unit after spending
15 million reais last year to double the number of operating
centers, Oddone said.  “We continue to bet on, and this is our focus, that these
other segments will represent more accelerated growth
opportunities than the auto segment,” Oddone said. “E-commerce
is irreversible -- it’s not a trend that will disappear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  