-- Bobcats Add Jefferson as Hawks Get Millsap in NBA Signing Start
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-10T19:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/bobcats-add-jefferson-as-hawks-get-millsap-in-nba-signing-start.html
The  Charlotte  Bobcats signed center
Al Jefferson and the  Atlanta Hawks  added power forward Paul Millsap as free agents, leaving the  Utah Jazz  without their top
two scorers from last season.  The National Basketball Association lifted its moratorium
on completing trades and signings at 12:01 a.m. today and point
guard  Chris Paul  of the Los Angeles Clippers became the first
free agent to officially finish a new deal.  When the NBA’s free agency period began on July 1, Paul had
said he’d remain with the Clippers. All-Star center  Dwight Howard  said last week that he’d join the  Houston Rockets  after
one season with the Los Angeles Lakers, though the Rockets have
yet to officially announce that signing.  The Bobcats had the NBA’s second-worst record last season
at 21-61 and President of Basketball Operations Rod Higgins said
the team is “ecstatic” with the addition of the 6-foot-10
Jefferson, who along with Howard were the only players to
average at least 17 points and nine rebounds each of the past
six years. Jefferson, a 2004 first-round draft pick, averaged
17.8 points and 9.2 rebounds a game for the Jazz last season.  “He gives us a low-post presence that we have not had on
our roster and brings a skill set that does not become available
very often,” Higgins said in a statement. “He is a veteran
leader who helps his teammates get better, but at the same time
he is only 28 years old so he can be part of the core of this
franchise for several years to come.”  The Charlotte Observer said Jefferson received a three-year
contract worth $41 million and is the biggest free-agent
acquisition in  Michael Jordan ’s tenure as team owner.  Hawks’ Addition  The Hawks added Millsap, who averaged 14.6 points and 7.1
rebounds for Utah last season. A second-round pick in the 2006
draft, the 6-foot-8 Millsap had career averages of 12.4 points
and seven rebounds over seven seasons with the Jazz.  “He embodies the intangibles we want to have in our
program,” Hawks General Manager Danny Ferry said at a news
conference. “From a hard-working toughness to a relentless
competitor who cares about his team and competes every night.
We’re excited to have him with us.”  Paul, a six-time All-Star, signed a five-year extension
with the Clippers that ESPN has said is worth $107 million. He
averaged 16.9 points and 9.7 assists a game last season, when
the Clippers had a 56-26 record to win their division for the
first time in franchise history, which dates to 1970-71.  The  New York Knicks  announced the acquisition of former No.
1 draft pick Andrea Bargnani from the  Toronto Raptors  for Marcus Camby,  Steve Novak , Quentin Richardson and a first-round pick in
2016. The 7-foot Bargnani, 27, has averaged 15.2 points and 4.8
rebounds a game since being taken by the Raptors with the first
pick in the 2006 draft.  Another Dimension  “Seven-foot versatile players with a good mid-range
offensive game and an ability to stretch the other team’s
defense are hard to come by in this league,” Knicks General
Manager Glen Grunwald said. “Andrea has proven to be a quality
scorer who adds another dimension to our team.”  The Knicks also re-signed 36-year-old guard Pablo Prigioni,
who averaged 3.5 points, three assists and 1.8 rebounds over 78
games last season, when he became the first Argentine-born
player in team history. Both the Bargnani and Prigioni deals had
been reported previously.  Indiana re-signed free agent forward  David West , a two-time
All-Star who averaged 15.1 points and 7.2 rebounds the past two
seasons.  “We said when the season ended, bringing David back was
our No. 1 priority,” Pacers President of Basketball Operations
 Larry Bird  said in a statement. “He is a leader, he is a
professional, he is a great competitor and he is the type of
player and person you want on your team if you hope to be
successful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  