-- BofA, Wells Fargo Brokerages Subpoenaed in Galvin’s Probe
-- B y   K e r i   G e i g e r
-- 2013-07-10T18:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/bofa-wells-fargo-brokerages-subpoenaed-in-galvin-s-probe.html
Massachusetts sent subpoenas to 15
brokerages including units of  Bank of America Corp. ,  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  as it investigates alternative-investment sales to seniors.  The probe will examine how investments such as real-estate
investment trusts, oil and gas partnerships, private placements
and structured products are marketed to seniors, Secretary of
the Commonwealth  William Galvin  said today in a statement.  “While these products are not unsuitable in and of
themselves, they are accidents waiting to happen when they are
sold to inexperienced investors by untrained agents who push the
products to score the large commissions,” Galvin said in the
statement.  Galvin’s office, which settled in May with five brokerages
over improper sales of REITs to seniors, is trying to determine
the extent of alternative investment sales to seniors and if
they comply with Massachusetts regulations.  “Being included on the list is not an indication of
wrongdoing at this time,” Galvin said.  The investigation is looking into sales by independent
broker-dealers as well as those by banks, discount brokers and
asset-management companies.  Galvin’s office said in the statement that it sent
subpoenas to units of Morgan Stanley, Bank of America, Wells
Fargo,  UBS AG (UBSN) , FMR LLC, Charles Schwab Corp., TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp., ING Groep NV,  LPL Financial Holdings Inc (LPLA) ,
Commonwealth Financial Network, MML Investor Services Inc.,
Investors Capital Corp., Signator Investors Inc., Meyers
Associates LP and WFG Investments Inc.  Spokesmen for the firms declined to comment or didn’t
immediately reply to requests for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keri Geiger in  New York  at 
 kgeiger4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christine Harper at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  