-- BOJ May Adjust Policy on Global Changes, Japan’s Nishimura Says
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-07-10T15:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/boj-may-adjust-policy-on-global-changes-japan-s-nishimura-says.html
Japan ’s central bank may adjust its
policies as overseas conditions change, Deputy Economy Minister
Yasutoshi Nishimura said during a trip to Hong Kong to explain
the nation’s economic measures.  “The  Bank of Japan  has various options for its decisions
as events unfold in the markets or overseas,” Nishimura, 50,
said yesterday in an interview. “It will basically continue
conducting its current policy, while being able to make various
adjustments such as increasing the frequency of its bond
purchases.”  The central bank is forecast to keep its easing program on
hold in a decision due today after signs that a recovery in the
world’s third-biggest economy is gathering steam. Nishimura’s
comments echo those of BOJ Governor  Haruhiko Kuroda  who has said
the bank will make policy adjustments as needed since unleashing
unprecedented easing in April.  “I respect what the BOJ has decided independently, and
have confidence in its policy making,” Nishimura said.  Nishimura was in Hong Kong with former economy minister
Heizo Takenaka. His trip follows a visit to  New York  on June 28,
where he was joined by Koichi Hamada, an adviser to Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe who was an architect of Abenomic’s so-called
first arrow of “bold” monetary easing.  Policy makers at the previous BOJ meeting in June refrained
from expanding their tools to address bond-market volatility.
They left unaltered a one-year fixed rate loan facility after a
surge in 10-year government bond yields from a record low in
April.  Under Fire  Japan has come under fire as the yen has weakened 13
percent this year against the dollar, boosting exporters such as
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  The nation should explain how it will guard
against external effects from its deflation-fighting efforts,
the European Union said July 8 in a planning document for a July
19-20 meeting of Group of 20 finance ministers in Moscow.  Nishimura rejected criticism of Japan’s policies, mirroring
his comments in a January interview.  “Each country decides on their own economic policies based
on their own economic conditions. Some have conducted bold
monetary easing, some haven’t,” he said. “There have been
adverse exchange-rate movements for some countries, but looking
at the trend, a recovery in the Japanese economy will mean we
import more from overseas, which in turn will drive the global
economy.”  A native of Akashi in western Japan’s Hyogo Prefecture,
Nishimura graduated from the Faculty of Law at Tokyo University.
He joined the trade ministry in 1985 and was elected to the
lower house of parliament for the first time in 2003.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  