-- Boston Bomb Suspect Pleads Not Guilty in Court Appearance
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-07-11T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/boston-bomb-suspect-tsarnaev-pleads-not-guilty.html
Karen Brassard, a 51-year-old
homemaker from Epsom,  New Hampshire , has a lot of reasons to
want to see Dzhokhar Tsarnaev die.  Her left ankle and right leg were injured in the Boston
Marathon bombing in April. Her daughter and husband were also
injured and a friend who was with Brassard at the time lost both
of her legs.  She hasn’t decided, though, whether Tsarnaev, the 19-year-old bombing suspect, should get the death penalty if he’s
convicted of killing three marathon spectators and injuring 260
others in the first deadly terrorist bombing in the U.S. since
Sept. 11, 2001.  “It depends on the minute; it depends on the day. I have
mixed emotions,” she said after attending Tsarnaev’s plea
hearing yesterday in federal court in  Boston  on crutches. “I
get angry, but I also think he’s just a kid.”  She will get a chance to make up her mind as Tsarnaev’s
case moves toward a trial that may last three months and have 80
to 100 witnesses. A date hasn’t been set. Tsarnaev, a
naturalized American citizen, will be back in court Sept. 23
when a trial date may be discussed.  Death Penalty  Tsarnaev pleaded not guilty yesterday before U.S.
Magistrate Judge Marianne Bowler in his first court appearance
since he was found hiding in a boat in a suburban Boston
backyard four days after the April 15 bombing and a day after he
allegedly shot a police officer to death. He entered his plea in
a hearing that lasted less than ten minutes in a packed
courtroom. He could face the death penalty for using a weapon of
mass destruction.  Others have no doubt about what Tsarnaev’s fate should be
if he’s found guilty.  A line of more than a dozen uniformed  Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology police officers stood at attention
outside the courthouse during the arraignment in honor of Sean
Collier, a police officer for MIT in Cambridge. Tsarnaev and his
brother, Tamerlan, ambushed and killed Collier in his cruiser in
an attempt to take his gun, prosecutors said.  MIT Chief of Police  John DiFava  attended the arraignment
because he said he wanted to see Tsarnaev. “I wanted to take a
look at this guy,” DiFava said after the hearing. “He’s a
punk. He’s a typical bad guy.”  DiFava said he favors the death penalty for Tsarnaev.  “The man deserves to die if he’s found guilty,” DiFava
said.  Kissing Motion  Tsarnaev wore an orange prison-issued jumpsuit and was
handcuffed behind his back when he entered and left the
courtroom. Before Tsarnaev was escorted from the courtroom by
authorities after the hearing, he turned and made a kissing
motion toward his two sisters, both wearing head scarves. One
held a baby and the other one wept as she left the courtroom.  About half of the 110 seats in the courtroom were reserved
for victims and their families and a separate overflow room was
set aside for them, where the hearing was broadcast on closed-circuit television. Ten police officers conducted a security
sweep of the courtroom six hours before the start of the
hearing. The murder trial of reputed crime boss James “Whitey” Bulger is taking place in an adjacent courtroom.  Shaggy Hair  Tsarnaev’s dark hair was as shaggy as in the photographs of
him that circulated before his arrest, and his left wrist was in
a cast. He fidgeted in his chair, twisted his jaw, rubbed his
chin and bit his cheek. One of his lawyers,  Judy Clarke , patted
his back as prosecutors spoke.  Tsarnaev stood with his lawyers and calmly answered in an
accent, “not guilty” repeatedly as the charges against him
were read. Clarke attempted to enter the plea on his behalf
before Bowler said Tsarnaev must answer himself.  Spectators in the courtroom were silent but strained to get
a look at Tsarnaev when he entered. About 30 victims and family
members were in court yesterday, the judge said.  The uncle of two brothers in their 20s who both lost their
right legs in the bombing said he believed he saw Tsarnaev
“smirk” in the courtroom.  “I thought maybe he would come in with a different
attitude, maybe look a little different but he didn’t,” said
 Peter Brown , uncle of J.P. and Paul Norden of Wakefield,
Massachusetts.  “We believe in the justice system and we’ll let that take
its course,” Brown said outside the courthouse. “Nothing is
going to change for our family.”  ‘Felt Sick’  The mother of the two injured men, Liz Norden, said seeing
the bombing suspect left her drained.  “I actually felt sick to my stomach. It’s really
emotional,” she said, adding that both of her sons are focused
on their recovery, not Tsarnaev.  Brassard said she didn’t appreciate Tsarnaev’s sisters
behaving “weepy” in court.  “I went in there not thinking I’d be emotional, but found
myself frustrated” by his family’s behavior, Brassard said.
“Certainly they have a right, but they still have their family
member and now other people don’t.”  Lacey Buckley, 23, was among a half dozen Tsarnaev
supporters -- mostly young women -- outside the courtroom who
waited for a seat hours before the start of the hearing. The
resident of Wenatchee,  Washington , who said she traveled alone
to Boston for the hearing, said she hasn’t seen enough evidence
to believe Tsarnaev is the bomber.  Tsarnaev Supporters  “They almost murdered a kid who was unarmed,” said
Buckley, who runs a website supporting Tsarnaev. She wore a
black T-shirt with the words “Free the Lion, July 10.”
Tsarnaev used a photo of a lion on his Twitter account.  Duke LaTouf, 33, said he traveled from  Las Vegas  to attend
the hearing because he believes Tsarnaev was framed. He said he
believes the government carried out the bombing as a test run
for eventually seizing all the guns in the country.  Kim Napoli of Boston, whose daughters, ages 1 and 3, were
near the bomb sites the day of the attack, also waited at the
courtroom entrance for a seat. Her children were uninjured but
continue to suffer from nightmares, she said.  “She was robbed of her innocence that day,” Napoli said
of her elder daughter. “She knows things can go wrong. She
thinks a marathon is people running away.”  “They seem young,” Napoli said of Tsarnaev’s supporters.
“They seem obsessed, like people who need something to do. Some
young girls like the bad boy.”  Detailed Evidence  Yesterday’s arraignment came about two weeks after a U.S.
grand jury that heard detailed evidence from investigators in
secret returned a 30-count indictment against Tsarnaev.  Tsarnaev killed two women and an 8-year-old boy and injured
260 people April 15 with bombs left in crowds near the
marathon’s finish line, prosecutors said. Tsarnaev, an ethnic
Chechen, was inspired by al-Qaeda and motivated by the U.S.
military’s killing of Muslim civilians, the government said.  Tsarnaev is also charged in the 74-page indictment with the
death of Collier, the MIT police officer.  Collier’s shooting at point-blank range on the evening of
April 18 set off an overnight manhunt that led to Tsarnaev’s
capture and the death of his brother Tamerlan, 26, who is
suspected of carrying out the bombing with him.  Three days after the Boston Marathon bombing, the FBI
released pictures of the Tsarnaev brothers taken near the scene
of the blasts, before authorities had identified them. Dzhokhar
Tsarnaev’s friends recognized him, prosecutors said.  Homemade Bombs  That night the brothers armed themselves with five homemade
bombs, a gun, ammunition, a machete and a hunting knife and
drove to the MIT campus, prosecutors said. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev,
along with his brother, shot Collier and tried to steal his gun,
prosecutors said.  The Tsarnaevs then carjacked a Mercedes and stole $800 from
the driver using his ATM card and forced him to drive them to a
gas station, the U.S. said. They told the driver they planned to
drive to Manhattan before he escaped, the government said  Police officers located the brothers with the vehicle and
engaged in a shootout, during which the siblings threw four of
the explosives at authorities, the U.S. said. Three officers
eventually tackled Tamerlan Tsarnaev after he was shot and tried
to handcuff him.  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev ran over his brother while driving away,
contributing to his death, the U.S. said.  Tsarnaev eluded the police by hiding in a boat in the
backyard of a suburban Boston home. He wrote messages on the
wall and beams of the boat, the U.S. said.  ‘Innocent People’  “The U.S. government is killing our innocent civilians”
and “I can’t stand to see such evil go unpunished,” he wrote,
according to the indictment. He also wrote, “We Muslims are one
body, you hurt one you hurt us all” and “Now I don’t like
killing innocent people it is forbidden in Islam but due to said
[unintelligible] it is allowed,” the U.S. said.  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev’s personal computer held instructions for
making bombs with pressure cookers and powder from fireworks, as
well as files related to al-Qaeda and jihad, according to the
indictment. He also wrote notes saying that while Islam condemns
murder, the bombing was justified because of the actions of the
U.S. government, prosecutors said.  Tsarnaev downloaded a digital copy of a book with a
foreword by Anwar Al-Awlaki, the al-Qaeda propagandist killed by
a U.S. drone in Yemen in September 2011, and a publication
called “Defense of Muslim Lands, the First Obligation After
Imam,” by Abdullah Azzman, known as the “Father of the Global
Jihad,” the U.S. said.  Bought Fireworks  According to the indictment, in the weeks before the attack
the brothers bought dozens of fireworks and traveled to a firing
range in Manchester, New Hampshire, where Dzhokhar Tsarnaev
rented two 9mm handguns and bought 200 rounds of ammunition and
engaged in target practice for about an hour.  Yesterday’s hearing was initially scheduled for May 30. It
was pushed back after defense lawyers asked for more time to
review evidence. U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz agreed to the delay.  Tsarnaev’s defense team includes the San Diego lawyer
Clarke, who specializes in death-penalty cases and represented
“Unabomber”  Ted Kaczynski  and 1996 Olympics bomber Eric Rudolph. The U.S. hasn’t said whether it will seek a death
sentence for Tsarnaev.  The “clock hasn’t started” for the government to decide
to seek the death penalty, Christina DiIorio-Sterling, a
spokeswoman for Ortiz, said in an interview yesterday. “It’s
obviously quite a process.”  Track Behavior  Tsarnaev’s lawyers on May 20 won a court ruling giving them
access to their client’s suicide watch logs in jail and other
data kept to track his behavior behind bars.  The judge, who ruled in response to a sealed defense
motion, gave the government access to the same files. The prison
where Tsarnaev is being held is also required to give defense
lawyers his daily activity logs and psychological files.  Bowler denied a request that defense attorneys be allowed
to take periodic photographs of Tsarnaev as evidence of “his
evolving mental and physical state.” The judge ruled that
prison staff will take the pictures and share them with both
sides.  Tsarnaev’s lawyers argued the images would show his
“injuries over time” and might be used in arguments about
whether his earlier statements to authorities were made
voluntarily. Bowler didn’t specify which statements the legal
team was referring to in the sealed request.  Legal Counsel  Tsarnaev was questioned by federal agents in the hospital
over about two days before being informed of his right to remain
silent and seek legal counsel. The delay was permitted as part
of a public-safety exception to reading suspects their rights
before questioning.  Tsarnaev’s initial court appearance was held on April 22 in
his hospital room after his questioning. He was wounded in the
head, neck, legs and hand in gunfights with the police. He is
now in the Federal Medical Center Devens, a lockup in Ayer,
Massachusetts.  Bowler angered some conservative lawmakers in Washington by
advising Tsarnaev of his constitutional rights at the start of
the hospital hearing. The  Justice Department  said protocol had
been followed. The case is to be tried before U.S. District
Judge George O’Toole in Boston.  Bowler said yesterday that she wants to see more documents
in the case made public and that many have been filed under seal
until now. The public “has a right to know” how the case is
being managed, she said at yesterday’s hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Tsarnaev, 13-10200, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in Boston federal court
at   elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston federal court at  jmlawrence@me.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 