-- Brazilian Court to Decide If World Cup Law Constitutional
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-07-11T16:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/brazilian-court-to-decide-if-world-cup-law-constitutional.html
A Brazilian law governing the
conditions of next year’s soccer World Cup is unconstitutional,
according to a case filed with the country’s  Supreme Court  by
Prosecutor General Roberto Gurgel.  Elements of the 2012 legislation, including tax exemptions
for soccer’s governing body and its sponsors, violate Brazilian
law, according to a  statement  posted on the prosecutor general’s
website. Gurgel filed the complaint in June after receiving a
report from a  task force  created in 2009 to monitor regulations
and public spending on the quadrennial event.  Supreme Court Judge Ricardo Lewandowski asked for more
information before he’ll make a ruling, according to a
spokeswoman at the Supreme Court, who asked not to be identified
in line with court policy. The court is in recess until August.  Actions questioning the constitutionality of new laws are
“quite common” in Brazil, according to Eduardo Carlezzo, a
lawyer with Sao Paulo-based Carlezzo Advogados Associados who is
not connected with the case.  Brazil’s government has committed almost 30 billion reais
($13.2 billion) for projects linked to the  World Cup . Gurgel’s
case was filed June 17 as Brazil hosted the Confederations Cup,
a test event for next year’s competition.  Brazilian Law  The Confederations Cup was played against the backdrop of
demonstrations as Brazilians took to the streets in record
numbers to protest a range of issues including the cost of
staging the World Cup, the most-watched event in sports.  “FIFA cannot comment on this pending procedure,” the
soccer body said yesterday via e-mail.  Brazil’s advocate general’s office is still preparing its
arguments to defend the World Cup law, it said in an e-mailed
statement. The legislation was delayed several times in Brazil’s
Congress before it was eventually signed into law by President
 Dilma Rousseff  as opponents claimed FIFA was demanding too much
power.  The lawsuit “won’t have any decisive impact in the
organization of the World Cup and will not affect any of the
national federations that qualify for the event,” Carlezzo said
in an e-mail.  Christian Fernandes Gomes da Rosa, a partner at Tojal,
Teixeira Ferreira, Serrano & Renault Advogados Associados, a Sao
Paulo-based law firm, said the lawsuit was “very unlikely” to
be successful.  Assume Liability  “This kind of legal action is common and I cannot see the
Supreme Court ruling in favor,” he said in a phone interview.  The claim also says the World Cup law is also in violation
of the constitution because it requires  Brazil  to assume
liability for any losses or damages to the event. The advocate
general’s office said that was what Brazil agreed to when it
told FIFA it would stage the tournament in 2007.  Deputy Sports Minister Luis Fernandes said the Brazilian
government and FIFA engaged in tough negotiations before coming
to an agreement over what would be included in the bill.
Fernandes said in a June 29 interview that the host nation
resisted FIFA’s demands on issues ranging from ticketing to a
specific clause related to counterterrorism.  Brazilian Politics  Fernandes said not all the soccer body’s requirements for
the temporary structures built outside the six Confederations
Cup stadiums were met, and that local officials rejected a
request for the provision of Segways, two-wheeled motorized
vehicles.  “The hardest thing is that they don’t understand the
sensibility and complexity of Brazilian politics,” he said.
“My own experience is if you are firm in defining what you
understand to be of national interest, you can make FIFA waiver
or make concessions on a number of things.”  Earlier this year, FIFA’s top administrative official,
 Jerome Valcke , said it can be more difficult to host the 32-team
event in countries with strong democratic traditions.  “I will say something which is crazy, but less democracy
is sometimes better for organizing a World Cup,” Valcke said at
a symposium in Zurich.  Russia will stage the event in 2018 before it moves to
Qatar in 2022.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  