-- Brazil Unions Vow to Shut Banks to Buses in National Strike
-- B y   A n n a   E d g e r t o n
-- 2013-07-10T17:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/brazil-unions-vow-to-shut-banks-to-buses-in-national-strike.html
Brazilian unions are planning a
nationwide strike tomorrow, threatening to “paralyze” the
country and halt banks, buses and government offices.  Striking workers, part of the umbrella group known as CUT,
 Brazil ’s biggest union, are calling for a shorter work week,
political reform and more worker protection, said Vagner
Freitas, the organization’s president. He said they also want
congress to direct all pre-salt oil royalties to education and
health.  “We’re going to paralyze the city of Sao Paulo, starting
in the morning and finishing with a big demonstration at
midday,” Freitas said, adding that workers will meet near the
General Motors factory outside Sao Paulo city.  Forca Sindical, another union federation, is also joining
the strike, saying that millions of metal workers, civil
construction and heavy construction workers will walk off the
job, said Paulo Pereira da Silva, the group’s president. The
union federation said demonstrations will start around midday on
Paulista Avenue, one of Sao Paulo’s main roads. Strikers will
also march to the national Congress in the morning in Brasilia
and gather around 3 p.m. in Rio de Janeiro.  “Because of the demonstrations, the national congress is
starting to pay attention,” Silva said. “Other sectors of the
economy are protesting now that they see it can get results.”  Port company Santos Brasil said in a statement it will
evaluate the extent of the problem to determine how to meet
shipping obligations. General Motors declined to comment on the
strikes, according to Nelson Silveira, a spokesman at the
company’s headquarters in Sao Caetano.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edgerton in Brasilia at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  