-- Brazil Raises Rate to 8.5% as Inflation Undermines Growth
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-07-10T23:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/brazil-raises-rate-to-8-5-as-inflation-undermines-economy.html
Brazil ’s central bank raised
borrowing costs by half a percentage point for a second straight
meeting, as the fastest inflation in 20 months undermines
economic growth and fuels social unrest.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, today
voted unanimously to raise the  benchmark Selic  rate by 50 basis
points to 8.50 percent, as forecast by all 51 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The committee considers that this decision will
contribute to put inflation on a decline and assure that this
trend will persist next year,” policy makers said, according to
their statement posted on the central bank’s website. The
statement was virtually identical to their May 29 communique.  Rising prices helped spark the largest street protests in
decades last month that also saw President Dilma Rousseff’s
approval ratings  plunge  by almost half. Above-target inflation
has undercut months of government stimulus by reducing  consumer
confidence  and curbing  retail sales  and industrial output. After
a quarter-point rate increase in April, policy makers doubled
the pace in May and reiterated warnings that the outlook for
inflation remains unfavorable.  “The diffusion of inflation remains widespread,”  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Gradual Investimentos, said by
phone from Sao Paulo before today’s decision. “A higher Selic
also seeks to boost credibility after the government implemented
a loose fiscal policy.”  Inflationary Risks  Swap rates on the contract maturing in August, the most
traded in Sao Paulo today, rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 8.23 percent. The real weakened 0.2 percent
to 2.2645 per dollar.  Policy makers, in their quarterly inflation report
published June 27, said increased costs of food, fuel and public
tariffs had contributed to a worsening of consumer and business
sentiment. Consumer prices will rise 5.81 percent this year and
the central bank will lift borrowing costs to 9.25 percent by
November, according to a July 5 central bank survey of about 100
economists.  Consumer prices rose 6.70 percent  in June  from last year,
the fastest pace since October 2011, the national statistics
agency said July 5. The central bank targets inflation at 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Protesters took to the streets in early June to oppose a
bus fare increase in Sao Paulo. Discontent later spread to other
metropolitan centers including Brasilia, Porto Alegre and Rio de
Janeiro, as demonstrators expanded their grievances to include
corruption, public services and government spending on stadiums
for next year’s World Cup.  Falling Short  Rousseff’s approval rating fell to 30 percent, down from 57
percent before protests started and a high of 65 percent in
March, according to a survey by Datafolha published June 29.  The real’s depreciation to its lowest level in more than
four years may further fuel inflation, according to  Roberto Padovani , chief economist at Votorantim Ctvm. The real has
weakened 12.8 percent in the last three months, the worst
performance among the 16 most-traded currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, as the Federal Reserve signaled it may begin to scale
back U.S. monetary stimulus.  “The central bank is working to control inflationary
risks,” Padovani said by phone from Sao Paulo before today’s
decision. “That is why they are raising rates.”  Faltering Economy  Since May 29, when the government reported that growth of
gross domestic product unexpectedly slowed to  0.55 percent  in
the first quarter, a number of key economic indicators have
missed expectations.  Retail sales, which helped propel Brazil’s economic
expansion in recent years, grew less than half the pace of
analysts’ estimates in April and will contract in May for the
second time in 2013, according to the median estimate from 27
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The statistics agency reports
on sales tomorrow.  Lojas Renner SA (LREN3) , Brazil’s biggest clothing retailer, is one
of the companies that has seen its business outlook deteriorate
on inflation concerns. The company’s share price on June 28
declined to the lowest level since August after JPMorgan Chase &
Co. cut its recommendation on the stock due to declining
disposable income and deteriorating consumer sentiment.  Industrial output declined 2 percent in May, lower than all
29 forecasts of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The same week,
analysts cut their economic growth forecasts for Brazil for this
year and next to below 3 percent for the first time, according
to the July 5 central bank survey.  “Economic activity is weak, and that’s a sign that
inflation continues to be high,” Darwin Dib, chief economist at
CM Capital Markets Asset Management, said by phone from Sao
Paulo before today’s decision.  Cautious Position  Citing a need to rein in spending, Finance Minister Guido Mantega on June 27 decided to gradually unwind tax cuts on home
appliances. Days later, Rousseff said that fiscal control helps
contain inflation.  While the government’s fiscal pledges may help to anchor
inflation expectations, higher commodity prices and a weaker
exchange rate could prevent prices from easing in upcoming
months, said Jose Francisco de Lima Goncalves, chief economist
at Banco Fator.  “There are a series of uncertainties that justify a
cautious position,” Goncalves said by phone from Sao Paulo
before today’s meeting. “As long as 12-month inflation remains
above 6 percent, the situation is risky.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  