-- Brazil May Seek to Speak With Snowden as Spy Charges Spread
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2013-07-10T22:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/brazil-may-seek-to-speak-with-snowden-as-spy-allegations-spread.html
Brazil ’s government said it may
contact fugitive former security contractor Edward Snowden as it
probes allegations the U.S. monitored phone calls and e-mail in
 Latin America ’s largest economy.  “Mr. Snowden’s participation in an investigation is
absolutely relevant and pertinent,” Foreign Minister Antonio Patriota said in Senate testimony to discuss allegations that
were first reported by O Globo newspaper last week. “I don’t
rule out the hypothesis of seeking out contact with Mr. Snowden,
something that doesn’t need to be carried out on Brazilian
territory. It can be done another way.”  Patriota’s interest in speaking to Snowden comes as
governments across Latin America, even those with close ties to
the U.S. such as Colombia and Mexico, demand explanations about
the extent of American surveillance activities in the region.  In Brazil, President  Dilma Rousseff  said today the
government is awaiting the results of probes by the police and
telecommunications regulator to determine what steps to take
next. U.S. surveillance activities may also be discussed when
the presidents of  Argentina , Brazil, Venezuela and other South
American nations gather July 12 in Uruguay for a summit of the
Mercosur trade bloc, Patriota told lawmakers.  O Globo reported July 6 that Brazil was a priority target
of U.S. monitoring alongside countries including China, Pakistan
and Iran. The article was co-written by American journalist
Glenn Greenwald, who lives in  Rio de Janeiro , and based on
documents he obtained from Snowden while breaking the spying
story for London’s Guardian newspaper.  Targets  In a follow-up article, Greenwald wrote that Mexico and
Colombia were also targets of U.S. surveillance in recent years,
with the latter taking on increased importance when Venezuela’s
President  Hugo Chavez  died in March.  Patriota told lawmakers today that he understands from
press reports that the former defense contractor has accepted
Venezuela’s asylum offer and that the logistics of his travel
are being worked out with  Russia . Snowden has been holed up in
the transit zone of Sheremetyevo International Airport in Moscow
since arriving June 23 from Hong Kong.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Bogota at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  