-- British Airways Jet Engine Fire Showed Airbus Plane Damage Risk
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-10T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/british-airways-jet-engine-fire-showed-airbus-plane-damage-risk.html
Airbus SAS single-aisle jets may
suffer more extensive damage from engine door separation than
previously thought, the U.K. safety agency investigating an
incident involving a British Airways airliner said.  The single-aisle plane took off from  London  Heathrow on May
24 and lost the fan cowl covers on both engines, forcing the
crew to return to the hub after the jet sustained damage, the
Air Accident Investigation Board said in a report today. It was
the first such event leading to an engine fire, it said.  “This event has shown that the consequences of fan cowl
door detachment are unpredictable and can present greater risk
to flight safety than previously experienced,” the AAIB said.
The cause of the engine fire remains under review, it said.  The engine doors on the flight to Oslo were not properly
latched after maintenance and detached on takeoff, the London-based organization said. The event created secondary damage to
wing control surfaces, landing gear and a fuel pipe.  The right engine caught fire, causing the plane to leave a
trail of smoke as it overflew London on its return to Heathrow.
The crew shut down the power plant, built by the International
Aero Engines joint venture, with the other still functioning.  Although extinguishing equipment was activated, the fire
was not entirely suppressed, leaving it to airport emergency
personnel to put out the flames after the plane landed, the AAIB
said. The 75 passengers and 5 crew members escaped the incident
uninjured.  Airbus alerted airlines a year ago about how to properly
inspect the part in response to 32 door detachments, with 80
percent occurring on takeoff, the safety authority said. The
AAIB recommended Airbus instruct operators to assure the latches
are secured by undertaking visual inspections.  Attaching the latches typically requires maintenance
personnel to lie on the ground to secure the doors, the AAIB
said. The fan cowl door latches are difficult to see unless a
mechanic crouches down so that the bottom of the engine is
clearly visible, the AAIB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  