-- Broken Systems Plus Bad Ideas Equals Lame Recovery
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-07-10T22:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/broken-systems-plus-bad-ideas-equals-lame-recovery.html
Five years after the financial
meltdown, the global economic recovery is hardly worthy of the
name. The  International Monetary Fund  has just revised its
 forecasts  for the world economy down -- again.  Growth almost everywhere could and should be faster. What’s
holding it back? The list of causes is long, and the details
vary from place to place, but toward the top is a kind of self-willed institutional incapacity.  In itself, a slow recovery isn’t surprising. Recessions
involving financial crashes are harder to shrug off than
ordinary downturns. Even so. For 2013, the IMF predicts growth
of 1.2 percent in the advanced economies. The U.S. is expected
to see output growth of 1.7 percent, which is feeble; output in
the euro area is projected to fall by 0.6 percent, which is
outrageous. Prospects have worsened in the emerging economies,
too. They’re told to expect another year of growth at 5 percent
-- by their standards, much too slow.  When we look back on this calamity, we’ll see two great
failures of coordination, neither of them much emphasized in
real-time economic commentary. First, a strong response to a
global slowdown demands effective international cooperation.
After a promising start in 2009, there has been precious little.
Second, at the national level, so deep a recession -- one that
pulls  interest rates  to zero and requires unusual kinds of
stimulus -- demands careful co-management of different strands
of policy. That’s something governments have been unable or
unwilling to do.  Institutional Weaknesses  These are very different issues, but they have something
crucial in common: They’ve tested the world’s economic-policy
institutions and found them wanting.  The failure of international cooperation is most egregious
in the European Union. The EU did more than just miss
opportunities to bolster confidence and investment, a global
failing. European policy has actively militated against
recovery. On a point of principle, the EU core inflicted severe
fiscal contraction on the periphery. On a point of principle,
the  European Central Bank  has let the goal of EU-wide low
inflation deflect it from providing monetary stimulus adequate
to the needs of countries where demand has collapsed.  Economic policy in a single currency area has to meet
special demands. The euro required far-reaching institutional
redesign. That has yet to happen. For instance, a genuine
banking union is a sine qua non for this enterprise; even though
EU leaders have finally acknowledged the issue, they have made
 scant progress . You could be forgiven for thinking that the
European Union was the victim not of a failure of cooperation
but of a successful conspiracy to destroy itself.  Globally, the story is more one of chances missed.
Governments should have given the IMF more resources sooner, for
instance, to better help distressed sovereign borrowers.
Governments should have amazed businesses worldwide by reviving
the  Doha Round  of global trade talks, upping their ambitions on
trade liberalization and bringing that project to an urgent and
successful finish. Instead they let it shrivel. So far a
collapse into trade war has been averted -- that’s something, I
suppose -- but there’s been  serious backsliding , and the chance
for some much-needed shock and awe on trade reform went begging.  Policy Divisions  The institutions of economic policy have also failed at the
national level. Settled doctrine before the crash of 2008 called
for keeping fiscal policy, monetary policy and financial
regulation in separate silos. This division rested in part on a
view about central banking that worked fine in good and
moderately bad times, but fails in a situation like this.
Central banks, according to this view, could be set to the
simple task of keeping inflation low, and be  shielded from
politics  in discharging it.  Post-crash macroeconomic policy recognizes that the lines
between fiscal, monetary and regulatory policies aren’t so
clear. For maximum stimulus effect, all three have to work in
harness.  Consider the case of outright monetary financing of
 government spending  -- or “ helicopter money ,” as it’s sometimes
called. This is fiscal policy: The government sends everybody a
check. It’s also monetary policy: The central bank finances the
outlay by buying and indefinitely retaining government debt. And
it implicates regulatory policy, because it changes the cost of
capital across different asset classes.  Quantitative easing isn’t quite helicopter money (because
the central bank expects to reverse its debt purchases at some
point) but the basic criticism applies. Because it isn’t the
purely apolitical intervention that advocates of central-bank
independence had in mind, central banks are inhibited in its
use. (In  Europe , this inhibition is enshrined in law.) The
limits imposed by independence also complicate the forward
guidance the Fed and other central banks have adopted or are
about to adopt. For example, in setting thresholds for
unemployment and schedules for getting it down, they’re straying
onto political terrain, so they have to be circumspect.
Deliberate vagueness muddies the message, adding to the
confusion that has lately roiled financial markets.  Fears that aggressive QE might cause financial instability
when it’s reversed raise a related point. These concerns should
be taken seriously, even if signs of a risky “reaching for
yield” are few right now. In principle, though, the answer is
not to keep QE below the level indicated by the shortfall in
aggregate demand; it’s to adopt financial rules that promote
safety in times of financial stress (above all by requiring
financial intermediaries to be better capitalized). The IMF’s
new report makes this point in passing, but without setting it
in the bigger picture.  In a way, post-2008 monetary, fiscal and regulatory
policies are all one. The old consensus on compartmentalizing
the different instruments has plainly failed, but the
institutional apparatus and expectations still mostly persist.
The same goes for the global policy architecture. It’s not just
a question of what the policy should be. Governments need to
reconsider how they decide what the policy should be.  A tall order, I know, but if they don’t get it right,
nothing much will be different next time round.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  ccrook5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 