-- Britain to Sell 360-Year-Old Royal Mail in $3 Billion IPO
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-07-10T14:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/cable-says-u-k-royal-mail-to-be-privatized-in-initial-offering.html
The U.K. government said it will
sell a majority stake in 360-year-old postal service Royal Mail
Group Ltd. via an initial public offering by the end of March.  Staff will get 10 percent of the shares for free, on
condition they hold them for three years, and retail investors
will be offered stock on the same terms as institutional buyers,
Business Secretary Vince Cable told Parliament in London today.  “We will retain flexibility around the size of the stake
to be sold,” Cable said. “This will be influenced by market
conditions, investor demand and our objective to ensure overall
value for money for the taxpayer.”  The sale will be the largest U.K. privatization since then
Prime Minister  John Major  broke up British Rail in the 1990s.
One of the country’s biggest employers with 159,000 workers,
Royal Mail has sought to adapt its letter-focused network to
more lucrative package shipping in the face of competition from
 TNT NV (TNTE)  of the Netherlands and  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL Express.  Royal Mail Chief Executive Officer Moya Greene said she
welcomed a move that will make it easier to tap capital needed
to operate as efficiently as European counterparts such as
Deutsche Post and Austria Post, which deliver over 95 percent of
letters the following day, according to the U.K. company.  ‘Illogical’  “Our employees will have a meaningful stake in the company
and its future success,” she said. “The public will have the
opportunity to invest in a great British institution.”  Chuka Umunna, business spokesman for the opposition  Labour
Party , said that Royal Mail -- likely to fetch at least 2
billion pounds ($3 billion) according to a person familiar with
the sale plan -- was being “sold off on the cheap” to raise
cash following the failure of government economic strategy.  The  Communication Workers Union  condemned the IPO plan as
“illogical and impractical,” saying cash for investment could be
raised just as easily under public ownership. The labor group
added in a statement that it will fight the sell-off and that
 strike action  is inevitable without legally binding assurances
on terms and conditions that will apply following the flotation.  Royal Mail said it’s open to creating a binding contract
that would safeguard “pay and protections” for a set period.  The postal service’s operating profit more than doubled to
403 million pounds in the year to March 31 as growth in  Internet
sales  spurred deliveries. Parcel revenue rose 9 percent as
overall sales advanced 5 percent to 9.28 billion pounds.  Muted  The decision to make shares available to retail buyers and
institutions on the same basis contrasts with the privatizations
of the 1980s -- such as British Gas and British Telecom -- when
stock sales were aimed primarily at the public in a concerted
effort to broaden share ownership. An advertising campaign
accompanying the sale will also be muted.  The business department appointed  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  as joint global coordinators and joint bookrunners on
May 29, Barclays Plc as joint bookrunner and sponsor, and  Bank
of America (BAC)  Merrill Lynch as joint bookrunner for the deal.  Investec Plc (INVP) ,  Nomura Holdings Inc. (NMR)  and Royal Bank of Canada
will take junior roles. Total fees if the deal goes ahead will
be in the region of 10 million to 15 million pounds, a person
familiar with the plans said July 3.  A formal intention to float will be issued in due course,
the government said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at   ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  