-- Caesars Rises 13% on $1.2 Billion Web-Gaming Spinoff
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2013-07-10T20:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/caesars-rises-after-venture-s-plan-for-1-18-billion-stock-offer.html
(Corrects name of TPG Capital in fourth paragraph.)  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , the
largest owner of U.S. casinos, gained 13 percent after moving
ahead with plans to offer about $1.18 billion in stock in its
emerging online gambling business.  Caesars Entertainment rose 13 percent to $15.94 at the
close in New York to mark the biggest advance since April 23.
The Las Vegas-based  company  has more than doubled this year.  Caesars Entertainment will distribute rights to its
stockholders to buy as many as 125.4 million shares of Caesars
Acquisition Co. at $9.43 each, according to a filing today.
Caesars Entertainment and Caesars Acquisition are forming
Caesars Growth Partners, a venture for online gambling as well
as some casinos.  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and TPG Capital, which hold
about 70 percent of Caesars Entertainment, plan to exercise at
least $500 million of their rights, according to the filing.  Growth Partners’ businesses include Interactive
Entertainment, which would offer social and mobile games, run
the  World Series  of Poker and operate the company’s regulated
online gambling. Three states, including Nevada and New Jersey,
have legalized Web-based casino games.  The venture’s other business, Casino Properties and
Development, is expected to include interests in the Planet
Hollywood Resort & Casino in  Las Vegas , a future project in
Baltimore, and a share of management fees from those properties,
according to the filing.  Caesars Entertainment said in April that it was creating
the venture to finance growth investments and bolster the parent
company’s balance sheet, which showed $21.1 billion of  long-term
debt  as of March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  