-- Capital Boost, Bernanke Testimony, Libor Hand-Off: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-07-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/capital-boost-bernanke-testimony-libor-hand-off-compliance.html
Capital standards at the biggest
U.S. lenders would rise to 5 percent of assets for parent
companies and 6 percent for their banking units under a plan
proposed yesterday by federal regulators.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency proposed a
leverage ratio that’s 2 percentage points more than the 3
percent international minimum for holding companies, the agency
said in a statement. Capital at U.S.-backed deposit and lending
units must be twice the global standard at 6 percent, according
to the OCC.  Separately, the five-member Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation board voted 4-1 yesterday for the 3 percent leverage
ratio mandated by the international Basel III accord, and
unanimously proposed to boost that minimum at eight of the
biggest U.S. lenders to 5 percent of assets for parent companies
and 6 percent for their banking units.  The U.S. plan goes beyond rules approved in 2010 by the 27-nation Basel Committee on Banking Supervision to prevent a
repeat of the 2008 crisis that almost destroyed the financial
system. The changes would make lenders fund more assets with
capital that can absorb  losses  instead of with borrowed money.
Bankers say this could force asset sales and pinch profit.  The changes would affect the eight U.S. institutions
already tagged as globally important, according to the Federal
Reserve. The Financial Stability Board, a group of international
central bankers that coordinates financial rules, identified
them as JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of America Corp .,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
 State Street Corp. (STT)  and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.   Based on the largest banks’ September data, the holding
companies fell short of the new leverage requirement, according
to FDIC staff. The insured lending units would need $89 billion
more in capital.  For more, click here and click here.  Compliance Policy  U.S. Derivatives Regulator Weighs Delay in Cross-Border Rule  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission is
considering a six-month phase-in period to implement new rules
for overseas swaps trades, according to two people with
knowledge of the deliberations.  Regulators face a Friday deadline to resolve a deadlock
over how far to expand the regulator’s oversight over trades
conducted outside the U.S. by banks including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  CFTC members remain at odds over the regulator’s overseas
reach, according to the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the deliberations are private. The agency has
set a July 12 meeting to vote on the rules; a temporary
exemptive order expires on that day.  The international reach of Dodd-Frank Act regulations has
been one of the most controversial parts of the government’s
effort to reduce risk and increase transparency in the $633
trillion swaps market. The CFTC’s proposed guidelines -- which
could extend agency oversight to many trades conducted by
overseas U.S. banks or subsidiaries -- have created a rift with
foreign regulators, who say their rules are sufficient for
regulating derivatives trades in their jurisdictions.  The CFTC’s proposed guidance was criticized by JPMorgan and
other U.S. banks for threatening to put them at a competitive
disadvantage when they trade overseas.  Swaps trading has been a major source of revenue for large
U.S. banks, and some have conducted roughly half of such trades
overseas, often through branches or subsidiaries.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  NYSE Euronext to Take Over Administration of Libor From BBA  Britain will hand over administration of the  London 
interbank offered rate to the operator of the New York Stock
Exchange as regulators try to revive confidence in the scandal-hit benchmark.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  will replace the British Bankers’ Association
as Libor’s administrator in early 2014, the London-based lobby
group that started the benchmark more than two decades ago said
in a statement yesterday. The U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority
began regulating Libor, the benchmark for more than $300
trillion of securities, in April as part of the overhaul.  The New York-based purchaser already operates Liffe,
Europe’s second-largest derivatives exchange, which offers
derivatives based on Libor. A government review recommended last
year that the BBA should be stripped of responsibility for Libor
after regulators found banks had tried to manipulate it to
profit from bets on derivatives.  The U.K. government formally started the search for a
replacement body to set Libor in February after the BBA formally
voted to relinquish operation of the benchmark. A seven-member
panel recommended the new administrator.  The rate is at present calculated by a poll carried out
daily by Thomson Reuters Corp. for the BBA that asks firms to
estimate how much it would cost to borrow from each other for
different periods and in different currencies. The results,
after the application of certain rules, are published for
individual currencies before noon in London.  Swipe-Fee Battle Moves to States as U.S. Banks Fight Surcharges  Banks and payment networks are pressing state lawmakers to
bar retailers from charging customers more to pay with credit
cards than with debit cards or cash.  The laws’ supporters say they are trying to protect
consumers from unfair costs when they make purchases with credit
cards.  The move for state laws is an extension of a decade-long
fight between retailers and members of the payments industry,
including JPMorgan Chase & Co., the biggest U.S. credit-card
lender, and  Visa Inc. (V)  and  Mastercard Inc. (MA) , the largest networks,
over “swipe” fees for debit and credit cards. Because
retailers generally have to pay more to banks when their
customers use credit cards than when they buy with debit cards,
the banks are trying to prevent stores from steering buyers to
debit transactions.  At stake is an estimated $40 billion that banks take in
each year from credit-card swipe fees, according to Madeline
Aufseeser, a senior analyst with Boston-based consultancy Aite
Group LLC.  Banking groups say the push for state laws isn’t a
coordinated campaign by the industry. Instead, Trish Wexler, a
spokeswoman for the Electronic Payments Coalition, a trade group
for card issuers and networks, describes it as an “organic”
process of bills arising in states at the same time.  State lawmakers are responding to a class-action settlement
that went into effect in January that gives retailers more
flexibility to impose surcharges for using different types of
cards, Wexler said in an interview before she left her position
at the coalition on June 27.  Melissa Cassar, a spokeswoman for Visa, said the company
has “no position to share” on the subject of surcharges. In
 Utah , the state bankers association, which includes JPMorgan,
cited the class-action settlement in promoting the law.  Steve O’Halloran, a spokesman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment, and a spokesman at Mastercard didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  For more, click here.  Courts  Bernanke Needn’t Testify in AIG Bailout Suit, U.S. Says  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke shouldn’t be
compelled to testify in Maurice “Hank” Greenberg’s lawsuit
over the government’s bailout of  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) , the Justice Department said.  Starr International Co., Greenberg’s closely held
investment firm and an AIG  shareholder , hasn’t shown the
“extraordinary circumstances” needed to warrant the testimony
because information on Bernanke’s role in the 2008 bailout can
be obtained from other sources, the U.S. argued in a filing in
the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in  Washington .  Starr sued the government for $25 billion in 2011.
Greenberg called the assumption of 80 percent of the AIG’s stock
by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in September 2008 a
taking of property in violation of shareholders’ constitutional
rights.  The AIG board on Jan. 9 declined to join the suit. A trial
has been set for Sept. 29, 2014.  David Boies, a lawyer for Starr at Boies, Schiller &
Flexner LLP, said in an e-mail that Bernanke “has important
testimony” to give in this case. He said Starr will respond in
court to the U.S. filing within the next couple of weeks.  The case is Starr International Co. v. U.S., 1:11-cv-00779,
U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  Ex-SAC Trader Martoma Seeks Dismissal of Charges Related to Elan  Former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager Mathew
Martoma urged a federal judge to dismiss two insider trading
charges tied to his firm’s sales of Dublin-based  Elan (ELN)  Corp.’s
American depositary receipts.  Martoma, who’s charged with the biggest insider trading
scheme in U.S. history, cited a U.S. Supreme Court ruling in
2010, called Morrison v. National Australia Bank, that said U.S.
laws don’t protect foreign investors who buy stocks on overseas
exchanges.  He was charged by the U.S. in November, accused of helping
the hedge fund founded by Steven A. Cohen make $276 million
using illegal tips about a drug to treat Alzheimer’s disease.
The U.S. alleged that after getting a tip from a neurologist who
was head of the safety monitoring committee for the drug trial,
Martoma traded on Elan ADRs and shares of Wyeth LLC. Martoma has
denied wrongdoing and is scheduled to go on trial in November.  Martoma’s lawyer said that while he isn’t seeking dismissal
of a charge tied to trading in Wyeth LLC, a Delaware corporation
based in Madison, New Jersey, he reserves the right to do so
later.  The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-00973, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 