-- CFTC’s Gensler Is Right on Need for Derivative Rules Now
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-10T22:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/cftc-s-gensler-is-right-on-need-for-derivative-rules-now.html
What with  Egypt ’s coup and the
asylum-seeking escapades of national-security leaker Edward
Snowden, you may have missed the fratricide taking place at one
of the U.S.’s most important financial regulatory agencies.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is in the final
stages of deciding how broadly to apply new derivatives rules
across borders. U.S. and European Union regulators have been at
odds over the issue, but a deal is imminent, according to
 Bloomberg News . This is an underreported yet vital part of
efforts to fix financial regulation.  Progress has been slow on all fronts. This week, for
example, U.S. regulators  proposed  more demanding capital
standards for big banks; if adopted, which isn’t certain, these
would come into effect in 2018, 10 years after the financial
meltdown began. The need for still more discussion and the
dangers of further delay are main points of contention in the
quarrel over derivatives.  CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler wants to impose  new standards 
not just on overseas units of U.S. banks and foreign
institutions operating in the U.S., but also on hedge funds in
the Caribbean whose owners are American and on foreign banks if
one side of a derivatives deal is guaranteed by a U.S. parent.
Such expansive jurisdiction is a controversial idea in its own
right. In addition, Gensler wants action now.  Many Opponents  He’s opposed by two other CFTC commissioners, including a
Democrat appointed by President  Barack Obama . That’s not all:
Six Democratic senators, numerous House and Senate Republicans,
the aforementioned EU regulators and large banks are lined up
against him. The Securities and Exchange Commission, which has
authority over a smaller part of the derivatives business, has
advocated a gentler line, and Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew has
reportedly told Gensler to play more nicely with other
regulators at home and abroad.  Facing such universal opposition, Gensler must surely be
wrong -- or so you’d imagine. We think he has a point.  The derivatives business is global, and the transfer of
risk (that’s what derivatives are designed to do) across borders
isn’t confined to traders sitting in New York. History has shown
repeatedly that problems originating overseas often come
crashing back to the U.S.’s shores.  That was the broader lesson of 2008, when American
International Group Inc.’s vast credit-default-swaps business
almost sank the  financial system . It operated out of a  London 
branch that itself was a unit of a French-registered bank. The
London trades were guaranteed by the U.S. parent, and ultimately
by U.S. taxpayers. And lest we forget, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
$6.2 billion in losses from bad bets on credit derivative
indexes were booked from London.  The Dodd-Frank financial reform law instructs the CFTC to
say how its rules will make sure there are no more AIGs. That
means the rules must reach U.S. financial players no matter
where they operate, and must cover foreign traders if they do
business in the U.S.  Already, the CFTC has delayed final action for six months,
after first proposing its cross-border guidelines a year ago. EU
officials, in arguing for another postponement, say it would be
wrong for the U.S. to act before Europe is ready. In principle,
this is true. Precisely because the derivatives business is
global, it demands a harmonized system of cross-border
oversight. Gensler’s critics are right that intersecting
jurisdictions and incompatible rules are no way to make finance
safer.  But, Gensler can reasonably ask, how long does Europe need
to figure things out? Five years after the 2008 meltdown, its
regulators are calling for more time. Europe’s objections would
command more respect if its regulators had shown more urgency.  Competitiveness Fears  U.S. banks operating in Europe, meanwhile, say they would
be at a competitive disadvantage if they have to follow costly
rules that their EU rivals don’t. Again, they’re right: A level
financial playing field is another reason to prefer
harmonization over unilateral action. But supporting the
competitiveness of U.S. banks ought to be balanced with the need
for financial safety.  So what can we hope for? Lacking the necessary third vote
(the commission temporarily is down to four commissioners from
the usual five) for the cross-border rules, and  under pressure 
to mollify the EU, Gensler is likely to agree to a phase-in
period and to allow the EU to substitute its own rules -- if
they are substantially equivalent -- once they are final. For
now, that would be an acceptable outcome, as long as the CFTC
adopts the rest of its guidelines on July 12, as originally
planned. It would maintain pressure on Europe to complete work
on its rules while leaving the door open for further efforts to
improve cross-border coherence.  Some of Gensler’s previous efforts to regulate derivatives
struck us as  overkill . Yet we applaud the chairman, who is
expected to leave government as soon as a replacement is
nominated and confirmed, for using his expertise as a former
trader at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to fight for a more
transparent and less risky system.  Safer global finance requires adequately strict regulation
and effective international cooperation. One out of two isn’t
good enough. It has to be both.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 