-- McGraw Hill, Moody’s, Fitch Are Sued by Fund Liquidators
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-07-10T18:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/mcgraw-hill-sued-by-bear-stearns-fund-liquidators-for-1-billion.html
McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) ,  Moody’s (MCO) 
Corp. and Fitch Group Inc. were sued by liquidators of two
collapsed Bear Stearns hedge funds seeking more than $1 billion
over allegedly faulty investment ratings.  The U.S. is seeking more than $5 billion in civil penalties
from McGraw Hill’s  Standard & Poor’s  unit over credit ratings on
mortgage-backed securities. An effort to have the Justice
Department’s fraud lawsuit thrown out was tentatively rejected
by a federal judge in California this week.  Geoffrey Varga and Mark Longbottom, the joint official
liquidators of Bear Stearns High-Grade Structured Credit
Strategies (Overseas) Ltd. and Bear Stearns High-Grade
Structured Credit Strategies Enhanced Leverage (Overseas) Ltd.,
filed the suit yesterday in New York state  Supreme Court  in
Manhattan.  The liquidators accuse the companies of “improperly and
fraudulently” rating securities and “intentionally and
knowingly” misrepresenting information about their
independence, the accuracy of the ratings, the quality of their
models and their surveillance of collateralized debt obligations
and residential mortgage-backed securities.’’  “Defendants, by omitting information they knew to be
material from their credit rating analyses, including the then-deteriorating quality of the mortgages underlying the CDOs and
RMBS at issue, offered a product and/or service, i.e., a rating,
that was materially different from what they represented it
would be,” the liquidators said in their filing.  Without Merit  The allegations are without merit and Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch will defend themselves vigorously, the companies said in
separate statements.  Michael Adler , a spokesman for Moody’s,
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the liquidators’
suit.  McGraw Hill last month won a bid to move lawsuits filed by
14 states and the District of Columbia to federal court in New
York. The suits accuse McGraw Hill and Standard & Poor’s of
inflating ratings on mortgage-backed securities.  The funds, part of Bear Stearns Asset Management, collapsed
in 2007, a year before their parent company, which was
eventually bought by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The funds were run by portfolio manager  Ralph Cioffi  and
chief operating officer  Matthew Tannin , who were acquitted of
conspiracy and securities and wire fraud in federal court in
Brooklyn in November 2009 in the first criminal trial stemming
from a federal probe of the collapse of the subprime mortgage-market.  Cioffi and Tannin later agreed to a $1.05 million
settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
which had alleged that the two men misled investors about the
funds’ deepening financial troubles and their own holdings in
the investment pools.  The case is Varga v. McGraw-Hill Financial Inc.,
652410/2013,  New York  state Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  