-- China Widens Car-Purchase Restrictions to Fight Pollution
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-10T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/china-passenger-vehicle-deliveries-rise-9-3-amid-cash-crunch.html
China, the biggest emitter of
 greenhouse gases , plans to widen the number of cities curbing
auto purchases to fight pollution and congestion, threatening
vehicle sales, the government-backed car association said.  Eight cities -- Chengdu, Chongqing, Hangzhou, Qingdao,
Shenzhen, Shijiazhuang, Tianjin and Wuhan -- will probably
introduce measures limiting auto purchases, Shi Jianhua, deputy
secretary general of the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers, said in a briefing in Beijing yesterday, without
being more specific about the timing.  Such limitations could cut vehicle deliveries by 400,000
units, or 2 percent of nationwide sales, and undermine economic
growth, Shi said. If introduced, the measures may triple the
number of Chinese cities -- Beijing and  Shanghai  have vehicle
quotas -- imposing curbs on automobiles as public anger grows
over worsening congestion and air pollution.  “In the short term, the market will just jump in those
cities,” said  Yale Zhang , managing director of Autoforesight
Shanghai Co. “Consumers will panic and will start to buy
whatever they can before the measures.”  Local brands would suffer the most as restrictions would
make  car ownership  more inconvenient and undermine the appeal of
cheaper vehicles, he said.  More Restrictions  Shijiazhuang, one of China’s most polluted cities, proposed
limiting vehicle ownership through a lottery, according to a
Shijiazhuang Daily report on the local government’s website last
month. The Zhejiang eastern province held discussions last month
to limit the number of new vehicles in the provincial capital of
Hangzhou, while Xi’an, home of China’s terracotta warriors,
discussed limiting vehicle ownership last year.  CAAM is opposed to the restrictions because they go against
efforts to boost consumption, deprives people of the equal right
to own a car and don’t do much to ease traffic jams, Shi said.
The association has submitted a study on the impact of purchase
limits to the Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology ,
which oversees the  auto industry , he said.  The auto group said in February that the industry has
become a “scapegoat” for the toxic smog that engulfed Beijing
last winter when coal-fired  power plants  should bear the main
responsibility for the pollution.  Passenger-vehicle sales rose 9.3 percent to 1.4 million
units in June, the association said yesterday, after dealers
increased discounts to clear stock and meet half-year targets
amid a cash crunch and concerns the economy is slowing. For the
first half, passenger-vehicle deliveries increased 14 percent,
while total vehicle demand, including buses and trucks, gained
12 percent, according to CAAM.  Cash Crunch  Expanding restrictions on vehicle purchases would follow a
cash crunch that sent interbank borrowing costs to record levels
last month and a slowing economy.  Official trade data yesterday showed  China ’s exports and
imports unexpectedly declined last month, underscoring the
severity of the slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy
as Premier Li Keqiang reins in credit growth.  The cash squeeze has led to “psychological panic among
dealers over access to financing,” Luo Lei, deputy secretary-general of the China Automobile Dealers Association, said in a
phone interview from Beijing on July 9. “So far, it hasn’t
caused any real damage to the industry, but if the cash crunch
continues, the impact will spread to auto dealers.”  Banks are taking twice as long approving car loans after
the cash crunch, which will hit mid-priced car sales the
hardest, the Securities Daily reported yesterday, citing 
interviews with auto dealers.  “More cities will introduce purchase restrictions,” said
Ole Hui, a Hong Kong-based analyst with  Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. (8411)  “This is just the beginning of a long-term trend.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7571 or
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  