-- China Allows Companies to Give Yuan Loans to Overseas Affiliates
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-10T11:40:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/china-allows-companies-to-give-yuan-loans-to-overseas-affiliates.html
China ’s central bank released rules
allowing companies to move  yuan  abroad more freely as the
authorities seek to bolster global use of the nation’s currency.  Companies can now open yuan accounts with local banks
through which they can lend in the currency to overseas
affiliated companies, the  People’s Bank of China  said in a
 statement  posted on its website today. The so-called yuan-pool
lending business can be shared between subsidiaries or
affiliated firms under one company, the central bank said.  China, the world’s second-largest economy, has promoted the
role of the yuan in international trade and financing as it
moves to reduce control over the currency and open up its
financial markets. That effort has included expanding channels
for cross-border capital flows and foreign investments and
setting up direct trading of the yuan with more currencies.  “Allowing multi-nationals to lend yuan out via a money
pool can help them reduce costs,” Zhang Bin, a researcher with
the  Chinese Academy of Social Sciences , said by telephone today.
“The move is in line with China’s direction of capital account
opening.”  Chinese authorities had earlier allowed companies to lend
yuan to their affiliates as part of a trial program. Standard
Chartered Plc announced in November it won approval from the
PBOC to help an unidentified American company lend 3.3 billion
yuan ($538 million) to its overseas affiliates. Citigroup in
January said it completed a cross-border yuan transaction for a
European food company.  Overseas Yuan  The central bank also said today it will allow companies to
move yuan raised overseas back into China through yuan accounts
with local lenders. Companies may also provide yuan-denominated
guarantees for their foreign operations, according to the
statement.  The PBOC amended a rule on the processing of credit-card
payments, deleting a requirement that cross-border transactions
be processed by China UnionPay.  The regulation now requires that such transactions be
processed by “a domestic bank card clearing entity,” paving
the way for the government to approve other processors in
addition to UnionPay.  Visa Inc. (V) ,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and  American
Express Co. (AXP)  were among companies to win partial support last
year from World Trade Organization judges in a U.S. claim that
China unfairly restrains the payment processors.  The central bank also issued rules for the country’s online
payment industry. The regulations outline requirements for
service providers including those for information security and
risk management.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  