-- China Exports Unexpectedly Drop; Imports in Economy Drag
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-10T10:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/china-exports-unexpectedly-drop-with-imports-in-drag-on-economy.html
China’s  exports  and imports
unexpectedly declined in June, underscoring the severity of the
slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy as Premier Li Keqiang reins in credit growth.  Overseas shipments fell 3.1 percent from a year earlier,
the most since the global financial crisis, data from the
 General Administration of Customs  showed in Beijing today,
compared with the median estimate of a 3.7 percent gain in a
 Bloomberg News  survey. Imports dropped 0.7 percent, while the
median projection was for a 6 percent increase.  Exports to the U.S. and European Union declined for a
fourth straight month while the drop in imports resulted in part
from falling commodity prices. Weaker global and domestic demand,
highlighted by China’s biggest shipyard outside state control
seeking a government bailout, increases pressure on Li to
support  growth  that’s at risk of sliding to the weakest since
1990 even as he vows to press on with restructuring the economy.  “Following on the subdued activity data of recent months,
the June trade data challenges the resolve of China’s policy
makers to keep the macro policy stance firm,” said  Louis Kuijs ,
chief China economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in  Hong Kong .  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks rose 0.8 percent as
of 6:46 p.m. in  Tokyo . The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index
gained 2.2 percent at the close, the most since March, amid
speculation that the central bank will take measures to support
economic growth.  Trade Surplus  The trade  surplus  was $27.1 billion for the month, compared
with the median analyst estimate of $27.8 billion. Exports rose
1 percent in May from a year earlier, while imports fell 0.3
percent.  The report follows May’s collapse in export gains after a
crackdown on fake invoices that inflated data in the first four
months of the year. Trade growth in danger of coming in below
the government’s target of 8 percent for the year and a cash
crunch that sent interbank borrowing costs to records last month
will test Li’s reluctance to add stimulus, with expansion at
risk of coming in below the government’s annual goal of 7.5
percent.  One reason for the weak trade figures might be that the
customs agency “had to deflate trade data in June to neutralize
previous over-reporting,” economists Zhi Xiaojia and Lu Ting in
Hong Kong said in a report. Appreciation in the  yuan  this year
may also be making Chinese exports less competitive, they said.  No Revision  The customs administration has no plans to revise January-April trade figures, Zheng Yuesheng, an agency spokesman, told
reporters in Beijing today. The data for those months reflects
arbitrage-related trade, and current figures with respect to
Hong Kong trade are true to facts, he said.  Separately, China’s June auto sales to dealerships rose 9.3
percent from a year earlier to 1.4 million units, the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers said today. That’s in
line with the median estimate of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Li said yesterday that China must rely on economic
transformation and upgrading to maintain continuous and healthy
development, according to the official Xinhua News Agency.  “It is very important to plan as a whole the need to
stabilize growth, promote economic restructuring and advance
reform at this stage,” Li said while presiding over an economic
meeting in southern China.  Orders Plunge  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , the
shipyard, said July 5 that it had sought government financial
support as orders plunged, two days after it said that some
idled contract workers had surrounded the entrance of its main
factory in Jiangsu province.  The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its global
economic-growth forecast to 3.1 percent for 2013 from 3.3
percent projected in April, the fifth straight reduction. That
would be unchanged from the 2012 pace.  China’s economic expansion probably slowed for a second
quarter in the three months ended June 30. Gross domestic
product rose 7.5 percent from a year earlier, according to the
median of 34 economist  estimates  in a Bloomberg News survey
ahead of data due July 15. That’s down from 7.7 percent in the
first quarter and 7.9 percent in the last three months of 2012.  The trade data “point to weak external and domestic
demand,” said Ding Shuang, senior  China  economist at Citigroup
Inc. in Hong Kong. Even so, Li’s government is unlikely to
introduce stimulus unless economic growth slows to below 7
percent and the labor market shows a “significant worsening,”
Ding said in a note.  The central bank will publish data on credit and money
supply over the next week. The statistics bureau on July 15 will
also provide June numbers on  industrial production  and retail
sales along with first-half fixed-asset investment.  China’s consumer price  index  rose 2.7 percent in June from
a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said yesterday
in Beijing, compared with a 2.1 percent gain in May. Producer
prices fell 2.7 percent.  --Zhou Xin, with assistance from  Kevin Hamlin  and Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing, Sunil Jagtiani in  New Delhi  and James Mayger
in Tokyo. Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  