-- China to Join U.S. in Carbon-Capture Projects
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-07-10T17:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/china-to-join-u-s-in-carbon-capture-projects.html
China  and the U.S., which together
burn more than 40 percent of the world’s coal, have agreed to
jointly develop technology to capture carbon dioxide from power
plants and take other steps to combat climate change.  The agreement came during the U.S.-China Strategic and
Economic Dialogue that started today in Washington. Talks are
hosted by Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew and Secretary of State
John Kerry and include counterparts Vice Premier Wang Yang and
State Councilor Yang Jiechi.  The two nations will implement “large-scale, integrated”
demonstration projects aimed at capturing, utilizing or storing
carbon dioxide, according to a statement released by the U.S.
State Department. “These demonstrations will engage companies
in both countries and allow for enhanced trade and commerce.”  The countries will also work together to lower emissions
from heavy-duty vehicles, increase energy efficiency in
buildings and improve greenhouse gas data collection, according
to the statement. Implementation plans for those targets will be
ready by October, according to the statement.  Important Players  “There is no question that China and United States
together are the two most important players,” U.S. Special
Envoy for Climate Change Todd Stern told reporters by telephone
after meeting with the Chinese today. “So anytime the U.S. and
China cooperate and find a means of cooperating and acting
together, I think it has a very positive overall impact” on
international negotiations.  President  Barack Obama  made curtailing carbon-dioxide
emissions from power plants the centerpiece of a plan he
unveiled June 25 to address global warming. China is the world’s
biggest emitter of greenhouse gases that are linked to climate
change.  “Ambitious domestic and cooperative action by China and
the United States is more critical than ever,” the State
Department said in the statement. “The United States and China
recognize that there is significant scope for reducing emissions
and reducing costs through comprehensive efforts to improve
energy efficiency.”  Germany ’s Environment Minister Peter Altmaier said last
month that renewed momentum for climate protection in U.S. and
China means that world leaders have a chance to “reach a
breakthrough with regard to a binding global deal” at the
United Nations climate summit in Paris in 2015. Those talks are
aimed at adopting a global treaty that would limit fossil fuel
emissions starting 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  