-- China Money Rate Drops to Six-Week Low as PBOC Avoids Draining
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-10T04:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/china-money-rate-drops-for-14th-day-longest-decline-since-2006.html
China ’s money-market rate dropped to
a six-week low as the central bank refrained from draining funds,
further easing a cash squeeze.  The seven-day  fixing rate , which measures funding in the
banking system, dropped one basis point to 3.59 percent,
according to a National Interbank Funding Center rate set at 11
a.m. in  Shanghai . That’s the lowest since May 28. It reached an
all-time high of 10.77 percent on June 20.  The People’s Bank of China hasn’t sold  bills  to withdraw
funds since June 20, when the overnight repo rate also climbed
to an unprecedented level amid the worst cash crunch on record.
The PBOC may resume sales of the securities should the one-day
fixing, which was little changed at 3.3 percent, drop below 3
percent, said Tian Jiachao, a bond analyst in Shenzhen at China
Merchants Bank Co., the nation’s sixth-biggest lender.  “The market is confident the central bank will pump in
capital if the cash shortage returns,” Tian said.  The PBOC gauged demand for sales of 91-day bills tomorrow,
according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the
auctions. It also asked banks to submit orders for 28-day
repurchase contracts and 14-day reverse-repo agreements this
morning, the trader said.  Bond Sale  China’s finance ministry sold at least 30 billion  yuan 
($4.9 billion) of seven-year bonds at a yield of 3.46 percent
today, according to a different trader at a  finance company  that
participates in government debt auctions. That compares with
 3.43 percent  in the secondary-market yesterday, which is down
from the 2013 high of 3.63 percent on June 20.  The sale drew orders for 1.38 times the amount on offer,
said the trader. That was the least for similar-maturity debt
since August 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Government bond yields are too low to attract
investors,” said Chen Ying, a bond analyst at Sealand
Securities Co. in Shenzhen.  Official data today showed further signs  Asia ’s largest
economy is slowing.  Exports (CNFREXPY)  contracted 3.1 percent in June,
after rising 1 percent in May, the General Administration of
Customs reported in Beijing. That compares with the median
estimate for a 3.7 percent increase in a Bloomberg News survey
of 39 economists. Imports declined 0.7 percent after a 0.3
percent drop in May.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, rose five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 3.88 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Consumer prices rose 2.7 percent in June from a year
earlier, compared with 2.1 percent in May, official data
released yesterday showed. That’s still below the government’s
annual target of 3.5 percent.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Simon Harvey, Robin Ganguly  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 