-- China to Allow Sales of Locally Made Game Consoles, SCMP Says
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   J a n e t   O n g
-- 2013-07-10T08:32:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/china-to-allow-sales-of-locally-made-game-consoles-scmp-says.html
China  may end a 13-year ban on the
sale of video-game consoles on the condition that they’re made
in Shanghai’s new free-trade zone, the  South China Morning Post 
said.  Foreign companies including  Nintendo Co. (7974)  and  Sony Corp. (6758) 
will still need approval from the culture ministry and relevant
government agencies, the newspaper reported, citing unidentified
people who saw government documents.  Nintendo, the world’s biggest video-game console maker,
reversed an earlier drop in Osaka trading after the report.
China banned the sale of consoles in June 2000 amid concern that
unhealthy and violent game content had the potential to harm
young people, the newspaper said.  Some consoles are available in China through black-market
channels. Touchscreen computers and smartphones, such as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and iPhone, are available legally as they’re not
considered gaming products.  “We see China as an attractive market, and we have always
been considering possible business development,” Satoshi
Nakajima, a spokesman at Tokyo-based Sony’s game unit, said by
phone today.  Sony said in November it received a safety certificate for
its PlayStation 3 home console from the China Quality
Certification Centre. The company said at the time it has no
plans to sell the machine in the country.  Yasuhiro Minagawa, a spokesman at Kyoto, Japan-based
Nintendo, declined to comment.  “If a drastic change is made, there will be some
opportunities for us,” Nintendo President Satoru Iwata  said  in
January, after  China Daily  reported that China may end the ban.
“We have been preparing for that.”  Shares of Nintendo rose 0.4 percent to 12,250 yen at the
close of trade. The stock earlier fell as much as 1.8 percent.
Sony, the maker of the PlayStation console, fell 0.7 percent to
2,187 yen in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Janet Ong in Taipei at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  