-- Christie Can’t Shutter Housing Agency, N.J. Court Rules
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-07-10T16:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/christie-can-t-abolish-housing-agency-n-j-supreme-court-rules.html
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie
doesn’t have the power to abolish a housing agency created by
the state Legislature, the state Supreme Court said, upholding a
lower-court ruling.  The Appellate Division had ruled March 8 that Christie
exceeded his authority by eliminating the Council on Affordable
Housing and transferring its duties to the commissioner of the
Department of Community Affairs. The Supreme Court agreed today,
ruling 5-2 that the law Christie relied on extends his authority
only to agencies “of the executive branch.”  “The plain language of the Reorganization Act does not
authorize the chief executive to abolish an independent agency
like COAH,” Chief Justice Stuart Rabner wrote for the majority.
“If the governor and the Legislature wish to abolish COAH, they
must take another path.”  Christie, a Republican who’s up for re-election, created a
task force in January 2010 to review the housing agency. In its
June 2011 reorganization plan, the state said the transfer of
the council’s duties would cut costs and reduce the complexity
of affordable-housing administration in New Jersey, according to
court papers.  Christie, 50, said today that the state high court
“continues to blindly perpetuate its failed social experiment
in housing” while ignoring that both elected branches of
government approved the plan to eliminate COAH.  ‘Activist Opinion’  “The chief justice’s activist opinion arrogantly bolsters
another of the failures he and his colleagues have foisted on
New Jersey taxpayers,” Christie said in a statement. “This
only steels my determination to continue to fight to bring
common sense back to New Jersey’s judiciary.”  The council, which helped develop and implement affordable-housing policies, was created under the state’s 1985 Fair
Housing Act, which required municipalities to provide for the
development of such housing.  The case is In re Plan for the Abolition of the Council on
Affordable Housing, A-127-11, Supreme Court of New Jersey
(Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  