-- Cliffs Says CEO Carrabba to Retire by Year-End
-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 2013-07-10T13:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/cliffs-says-ceo-carrabba-to-retire-by-year-end.html
Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (CLF) , the
largest U.S. iron-ore producer, rose the most in more than three
weeks after saying Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Joseph Carrabba will retire by the end of the year.  Cliffs gained 5.7 percent to $17.33 at 9:35 a.m. in New
York, after earlier climbing 6.5 percent, the most intraday
since June 13.  James Kirsch, a Cliffs director, was appointed non-executive chairman, the Cleveland-based company said in a
statement yesterday after the close of trading. The announcement
caps nine months during which Cliffs has idled some mines,
postponed development work, cut its dividend and sold equity to
conserve cash as iron-ore prices slumped.  “While it’s too early to speculate on strategic changes it
might make, we think all options are now on the table,” Garrett S. Nelson, an analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in Richmond,
 Virginia , said today in a note. He raised his recommendation on
the shares to buy from hold.  Under Carrabba, who became CEO in 2006, Cliffs expanded the
company globally and bought Thompson Consolidated Iron Mines
Ltd. for C$4.4 billion ($4.2 billion) including debt in 2011,
adding iron-ore assets in  Canada . Cliffs wrote down the value of
the Thompson assets by $1 billion in the fourth quarter. Shares
of Cliffs fell 58 percent this year through yesterday.  Laurie Brlas, president of global operations and the
company’s former chief financial officer, has retired, Cliffs
said yesterday. It also appointed Mark E. Gaumond, a former
Ernst & Young LLP executive, to the board.  Executive-search firm Heidrick & Struggles International
Inc. was retained to help find a new CEO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Casey in  New York  at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  