-- Coach to Krakoff Bonus by $3 Million If No Label Sale
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2013-07-10T22:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/coach-to-krakoff-bonus-by-3-million-if-no-label-sale.html
Coach Inc. (COH)  will reduce its departing
chief creative director Reed Krakoff’s annual bonus by $3
million if a binding agreement for the sale of his label isn’t
reached by July 29.  Krakoff’s maximum bonus was 200 percent of salary under his
employment agreement, Coach said in a regulatory filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission today, without
disclosing its amount. In September, the handbag maker said his
current salary was $2.85 million.  Krakoff decided not to renew his contract, which expires in
June 2014, to concentrate exclusively on his namesake brand,
Coach said in April. The company said at the time it was
exploring strategic options for his brand, which may involve a
sale to a group in which Krakoff would participate.  Coach last month named Stuart Vevers as its new executive
creative director to replace Krakoff and help steer the handbag
maker’s evolution into a lifestyle brand.  Vevers joins New York-based Coach from the leather goods
brand Loewe, owned by  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , where
he has been creative director since 2008.  Coach has made a number of top executive changes this year,
including naming Victor Luis as intended chief executive
officer. It is working to become a full lifestyle brand that
outfits customers from head to toe as rivals such as  Michael
Kors Holdings Ltd. (KORS)  and Tory Burch LLC challenge its dominance of
the handbag market.  Coach rose 1 percent to $58.60 in  New York  today. The
shares rose 5.6 percent this year, trailing the 16 percent gain
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  