-- Commodity Traders Face New Squeeze as Storage Congestion Spreads
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-07-11T09:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/commodity-traders-face-new-squeeze-as-storage-congestion-spreads.html
Commodity traders are facing another
supply squeeze as stockpiles concentrate in fewer cocoa depots,
mirroring congestion at metals warehouses that means some buyers
are paying record premiums for deliveries.  Warehouses in Antwerp,  Belgium , held 61 percent of cocoa
certified for delivery by the NYSE Liffe exchange on June 24,
compared with 36 percent a year earlier, bourse  data  show. That
mirrors the trend in metal stockpiles, with 73 percent of
aluminum and 90 percent of copper tracked by the London Metal
Exchange now held in three locations.  Reserves are concentrating in fewer places as depots offer
incentives to attract supply. Arrivals exceed withdrawals,
expanding stockpiles and allowing warehouse companies to profit
from storage charges. While premiums for physical cocoa have yet
to rise,  surcharges  for physical copper are in some cases the
most in seven years and in aluminum the highest ever.  “They’ve seen this work in metals so all they’ve done is
taken it across to agriculture,” said Colin Hamilton, the head
of commodities research at Macquarie Group Ltd. in  London . “You
have so much material in a given location that it becomes
essentially impossible to load that out to the extent that the
market needs.”  Cocoa for delivery in September jumped 1.4 percent to 1,537
pounds ($2,319) a metric ton on NYSE Liffe in London today.
Prices have dropped 3.8 percent in the past year.  Withdrawals in cocoa are mostly limited to 200 tons a day
per warehouse, according to three people with direct knowledge
of the deliveries, who asked not to be identified because the
matter is private. A buyer taking 75,000 tons, the maximum
allowed by NYSE Liffe, might wait about 18 months if the beans
are in the same depot.  Ivory Coast  While most buyers get beans directly from producing
countries, the stockpiles become more important when supply is
disrupted. The main harvest in  Ivory Coast , the biggest grower,
usually begins in mid- to late-September. It may be delayed by a
month this year because of the late development of pods, said
Kevin Marcus, founder of Marcus Weather in Passaic,  New Jersey .  Buyers probably won’t get “good-quality new-crop cocoa”
until January, said Derek Chambers, the head of cocoa trading at
Paris-based Sucres et Denrees SA. Concern is also mounting
because some of the bags of cocoa stored in Antwerp were found
to have wet stains last month.  Cocoa for delivery in September now trades near parity with
the December contract on NYSE Liffe. When supply meets demand,
prices for later deliveries are normally higher to reflect costs
such as storage and insurance. The  spread  was at a discount of
12 pounds ($17.89) a ton as recently as July 1.  “The problem with Antwerp is that the market does not know
if it is available at all because of the recent quality issues
and the amount of time it takes to move beans out of
warehouses,” Chambers said.  Minimum Deliveries  NYSE Liffe has no rules on how fast cocoa must be
delivered. The bourse introduced minimum daily deliveries for
coffee last year after customers including Armajaro Trading
Group Ltd. in London complained. At the time, the exchange said
the same would be done for cocoa “in due course.”  Some warehouse owners offered incentives including free
transport from ships to depots to attract supply, according to
six people with knowledge of the arrangements.  While the exchange has raised the issue of deliveries with
the  European Warehousekeepers Federation , it wasn’t discussed in
depth, said Jack Steijn, secretary general of the Amsterdam-based industry group. Adaora Anunoby, a spokeswoman for NYSE
Liffe, declined to comment.  The London Metal Exchange said July 1 it was considering
rules to speed up withdrawals from metal depots where waiting
times exceed 100 days. The warehouse companies also offered
incentives to attract inventory, according to Societe
Generale SA.  Extra Supply  Surplus production and record-low  interest rates  combined
to encourage financing deals in everything from  aluminum  to
zinc. They typically involve the purchase of metal for nearby
delivery and a forward sale to take advantage of a market in
contango, where prices rise into the future. The transactions
lock up metal in warehouses and make it unavailable to buyers.  Manufacturers get most metal from long-term contracts. They
use LME-tracked stockpiles when they need extra supply.  The premium for physical copper in the U.S. jumped 33
percent to $176 a ton in the past year, according to Metal
Bulletin data. The global supply  surplus  will expand fourfold
this year, Barclays Plc estimates.  The surcharge for aluminum in the U.S. Midwest rose to an
all-time high of 12 cents to 13 cents a pound, at a time when
Morgan Stanley is predicting a seventh consecutive annual supply
glut.  The premium for Ivorian cocoa in the physical market is 62
pounds a ton above futures, less than last year’s average of
69.53 pounds, according to data from KnowledgeCharts, a unit of
Commodities Risk Analysis in Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania .  Withdrawing Coffee  While stockpiles certified for delivery by Liffe reached
92,020 tons on June 24, from 51,070 tons at the end of 2012,
they are still below the five-year average of about 128,000
tons. NYSE Liffe will update the figures today.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , which agreed to  acquire  NYSE
Euronext for $8.2 billion in December, introduced a rule in
March that requires sellers to apply a discount that is the
difference between withdrawing coffee in  New York  and five other
ports. In Antwerp, which holds 63 percent of certified arabica
stockpiles, the discount is the highest at $1.62 a bag. The
change is meant to compensate buyers for the additional expense
of moving beans out of more costly locations.  “If a warehouse keeper is not able to deal with the cocoa
in reasonable commercial terms, then Liffe should not really
have them as a registered stock-keeper,” said  Jonathan Parkman ,
the co-head of agriculture at Marex Spectron Group, a London-based broker. “Should ICE acquire NYSE Liffe we can only hope
they will do a better job of eradicating these practices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  