-- Contracting Shortcut Imperils San Francisco Bridge Safety
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-07-10T17:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/contracting-shortcut-imperils-safety-of-san-francisco-bay-bridge.html
(Corrects that one type of bolt was considered, rather
than one supplier, in first paragraph.)  A new span of the  San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge , the most expensive public works project in
California history, is vulnerable to earthquakes because state
planners considered only one type of bolt for a type of steel
fastener that subsequently failed, an investigative report
concluded.  Thirty-two anchor rods, each about the diameter of a
baseball and as much as 17 feet (5 meters) long, fractured when
they were tightened. The Metropolitan Transportation
Commission’s plan to open the 2.2-mile eastern section in early
September has been put off indefinitely.  Construction on the Bay Bridge, which carries  Interstate 80 
between  San Francisco  and Oakland, started in 2002 and is
already six years behind schedule. The price, once put at $1.1
billion, has soared to $6.3 billion. The new delay may cost the
prime contractors performance incentives, while  270,000 drivers 
a day must depend on a bridge finished in 1936 and damaged in
the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake.  “We need to get the new bridge open and make sure it’s
safe,” state Senator Mark DeSaulnier, a Walnut Creek Democrat
and chairman of the Senate Transportation and Housing Committee,
said by telephone. “That shouldn’t preclude us from looking at
the whole project, looking at what we can do better, and holding
people accountable.”  The Bay Area Toll Authority, the financing agency for the
Metropolitan Transportation Commission, will meet today in
Oakland and may discuss possible penalties against contractors
and the timing of opening the new span, said Randy Rentschler, a
commission spokesman.  Moves Slightly  The suspension bridge is designed to move slightly during
earthquakes, rather than break, according to the report by the
Toll Bridge Program Oversight Committee. In such an event, the
bolt-like steel rods, manufactured by Dyson Corp. in
Painesville,  Ohio , help hold the road decks to the piers.  Besides excluding alternatives, engineers made the rods
susceptible to breaking by specifying the wrong anti-corrosion
treatment, according to the report.  “The specifications, the grades of material they ordered,
were the grades we provided,” said Brian Rawson, the president
of closely held Dyson, the low bidder. The company, which makes
bolts, screws and fasteners, supplied components of the original
Bay Bridge, where construction began in 1933. “They should have
specified a higher-grade material.”  The state Transportation Department, known as Caltrans,
shares responsibility for the failure with project contractors
and engineers, according to the oversight report.  Consider Alternatives  Engineers should have considered alternatives to the
generally available steel rods, the report said, yet didn’t
because of state contracting rules. Finding alternative
materials might have required a “sole source” contract,
discouraged by the state because it may cost more for exclusive
designs or materials.  “Investigation into other types of high-strength steel
rods, even if they might have required sole sourcing, appears to
have been warranted,” the report said.  Tamie McGowen, a Transportation Department spokeswoman,
referred questions to Andrew Gordon, a Bay Bridge spokesman who
declined to address the sole-source issue.  The engineers approved dipping the rods in molten zinc at
850 degrees Fahrenheit (450 Celsius) to protect against
corrosion. The technique can cause hydrogen to spiderweb through
the metal and weaken it, Thomas Devine, a professor of Materials
Science and Engineering at the  University of California ,
Berkeley, said by e-mail.  Too Large  The engineering team, a joint venture of  T.Y. Lin
International Grou p and  Moffatt & Nichol  Design, and state
transportation engineers concluded that the rods were too long
and heavy to be coated with zinc by a different method that
might have prevented the brittleness, the report said.  Maribel Castillo, a spokeswoman for T.Y. Lin in San
Francisco, declined to comment on the report and referred
questions to the Bay Bridge spokesman. Moffatt & Nichol
spokeswoman Tracy Russell didn’t respond to an e-mail message
seeking comment on the report.  The 32 rods that cracked were among 2,306 on the entire
east span. There’s no evidence that the other fasteners are
vulnerable, Gordon said. Bridge designers are working on devices
to take the place of the damaged rods. The fix is to be
completed by Dec. 10, Gordon said, although officials haven’t
determined when to open the new span to traffic.  Tax-exempt Bay Area Toll Authority revenue bonds maturing
in April 2028 traded July 8 for the first time since May at an
average yield of 3.84 percent, the highest since the debt was
sold in September, data compiled by Bloomberg show. sold in
September, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The penalty relative
to AAA rated munis was 1.26 percentage points, close to the
highest since issuance, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  