-- Copper Rises as China’s Imports Climb to Nine-Month High
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-07-10T17:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/copper-advances-as-china-imports-the-most-metal-in-nine-months.html
Copper futures rebounded from a one-week low after imports climbed to the highest since September in
China, the world’s top consumer of industrial metals.  Shipments of refined metal, alloy and products increased
5.9 percent to 379,951 metric tons in June from May, government
figures showed today. China’s total imports and exports
unexpectedly dropped last month, spurring speculation that the
government may take measures to support economic growth.
Equities rallied the most in three months.  “The metal-import numbers were encouraging, and there have
been signs that China is doing some stockpiling in copper,”
 Bill O’Neill , a partner at Logic Advisors in  Upper Saddle River ,
 New Jersey , said in a telephone interview. “The overall drop in
the trade numbers begs the question as to whether recent moves
to keep things tighter will continue.”  Copper futures for September delivery climbed 0.9 percent
to settle at $3.091 a pound at 1:12 p.m. on the Comex in New
York. Yesterday, the metal touched $3.025, the lowest since June
28, as a drop in Chinese producer prices stoked concerns that
demand may ebb.  The  Federal Reserve  is scheduled to release minutes today
on June’s policy meeting, which may give signals on whether the
central bank will keep buying $85 billion of debt each month to
bolster the  U.S. economy . The nation is the second-biggest
copper user.  Copper  stockpiles  monitored by the London Metal Exchange
fell 0.6 percent to 646,000 tons, the fourth straight decline.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months rose 1.4
percent to $6,825 a ton ($3.10 a pound) Aluminum, tin, nickel,
lead and zinc also gained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  