-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Pare Declines After Fed Release
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-07-10T20:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-hold-as-fed-releases-june-minutes.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk pared declines after minutes from the Federal Reserve
policy meeting last month showed that officials want to see more
progress in employment before reducing asset purchases.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.2
basis point for the day to 81.6 basis points, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure had earlier climbed as
high as 82.8 before the release and as low as 79.8 immediately
afterward.  The moves in the index show minutes from the Fed meeting
failed to diminish speculation that the central bank will reduce
the pace of its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, known as
quantitative easing, which has boosted the credit markets.  “Many members indicated that further improvement in the
outlook for the labor market would be required before it would
be appropriate to slow the pace of asset purchases,” according
to the record of the Federal Open Market Committee’s June 18-19
gathering released today in  Washington .  The minutes also said that cumulative decline in
unemployment since September and gains in private payrolls “had
increased their confidence in the outlook for sustained
improvement in labor market conditions.”  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  ‘Mildly Reassuring’  “The minutes were mildly reassuring that the Fed will be
less aggressive in reducing purchases,” Anthony Valeri, a
market strategist in San Diego with LPL Financial Corp., said in
a telephone interview. “There’s nothing to suggest with
certainty they would start tapering in July, and it looks like
this September to December window has calmed the nerves.”  Southern Power Co. (SO)  issued $300 million of 5.25 percent, 30-year notes at 160 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds
from the sale will be used to refinance debt and for general
corporate purposes.  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 1.1 basis points to 401.1 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  Covenant Quality  The average for Moody’s Investors Service’s covenant
quality index for U.S. high-yield bond issuance fell to 3.72 in
June from 3.99 in May, according to a report from analysts led
by Alexander Dill yesterday. The reading, which measures
covenant quality on a five-point scale with 5 signifying the
weakest bondholder protection and 1 the strongest, is the lowest
since 3.63 in December.  “With issuance down sharply in June and many companies
postponing deals, those that went to market may have had to
offer somewhat better covenant terms to a suddenly more
discriminating market,” the analysts wrote.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt fell 1.9 basis points to 553.4 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in  New York  at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  