-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Little Changed Before June Fed Minutes
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-07-10T15:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-increase-before-june-fed-minutes.html
A measure of U.S. corporate credit
risk was little changed before the  Federal Reserve  releases the
minutes from its June policy meeting.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
0.1 basis point to a mid-price of 82 basis points at 11:39 a.m.
in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
gauge closed yesterday at 81.7, the lowest level since June 7.  Investors are seeking further clarity of the central bank’s
plans for its unprecedented stimulus measures when the Fed
releases the minutes of its June 18-19 meeting at 2 p.m. in
 Washington  today. Speaking after last month’s meeting, Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank may “moderate” its $85
billion of monthly bond purchases this year and end them by
mid-2014 if growth in the world’s largest economy meets the
Fed’s forecasts.  “People are waiting on the Fed, and you’ve seen the hedge
position,” Noel Hebert, chief investment officer at Concannon
Wealth Management, which oversees about $250 million of assets
from Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania , said in a telephone interview.
“We’re just trying to test how markets fare with higher
rates.”  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Southern Power  Southern Power Co. (SO)  may issue $250 million of 30-year bonds,
according to a person with knowledge of the offering. Proceeds
from the sale will be used to repay debt and for general
corporate purposes, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the terms aren’t set.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 3 basis points to 405.1 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show.  The average for Moody’s Investors Service’s covenant
quality index for U.S. high-yield bond issuance fell to 3.72 in
June from 3.99 in May, according to a report from analysts led
by Alexander Dill yesterday. The reading, which measures
covenant quality on a five-point scale with 5 signifying the
weakest bondholder protection and 1 the strongest, is the lowest
since 3.63 in December.  “With issuance down sharply in June and many companies
postponing deals, those that went to market may have had to
offer somewhat better covenant terms to a suddenly more
discriminating market,” Dill wrote.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt fell 1.3 basis points to 554 basis points, Bloomberg
data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in New York at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  