-- Ctrip to Yanzhou Rally as Melco Premium Widens: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-07-10T21:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/ctrip-to-yanzhou-rally-as-melco-premium-widens-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks rose in  New York  as
 Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP)  jumped amid speculation  China ’s
biggest online travel agency may be acquired, while  Yanzhou Coal (YZC) 
Mining Co. gained amid a rally in commodity shares.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. advanced 0.2 percent to a one-week
high of 85.25 yesterday. Ctrip posted the biggest surge in two
months and Yanzhou Coal rose for the first time this week. Qihoo
360 Technology Co. extended gains to a record while  Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  traded at the widest premium over Hong Kong-listed stock in two weeks.  Ctrip soared as much as 7.6 percent after Chinese
technology news website DoNews reported that  Tencent Holdings
Ltd. (700) , China’s biggest Internet company by market value, is in
talks with to buy a controlling stake. Shanghai-based Ctrip
denied “rumors published on certain Chinese social media” in a
statement, adding it isn’t in discussions with any third party
on such a transaction.  “China’s online travel space has attractive growth
potential, so a few big profitable Internet companies also want
to get involved,” Henry Guo, a senior analyst at ABR Investment
Strategy LLC, which does research on the Chinese Internet
industry, said in a telephone interview from  San Francisco .
“Even if the company denied the rumor, this may still indicate
some big buyers are looking for companies.”  The iShares China Large-Cap ETF, the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., advanced 0.3 percent to a one-week high of $32.45, rallying for a fourth day. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at a five-week high as
investors analyzed minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s last
meeting for signs on when the central bank might slow the pace
of bond purchases.  Trading Volume  Ctrip’s American depositary receipts surged 6.5 percent to
$33.85,  the biggest gain since May 9. Volume on the ADRs was
more than twice the daily average over the past three months,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Ctrip’s shares are  trading  at 23 times estimated 12-month
profit, compared with a multiple of 46 for its smaller domestic
competitor Elong Inc. ADRs of Beijing-based Elong added 1.9
percent, the most in a month, to $13.74 in New York.  Yanzhou, China’s fourth-largest coal mining company, jumped
4.1 percent to $7.11 in New York, the steepest rally since June
21. Its stock surged 5.8 percent in  Hong Kong  trading yesterday
and jumped 10 percent in Shanghai.  A surge in rare-earth stocks in Shanghai spilled over to
other commodity sectors and Yanzhou has the lowest valuation
among peers,  Helen Lau , an analyst at UOB Kay Hian Holdings
Ltd., wrote in a note to clients yesterday, adding the rally may
not be sustainable.  Melco Advances  The gain in Yanzhou’s ADRs has pared their loss this year
to 58 percent. The company’s valuation dropped to 9.5 times
projected earnings on July 9, the lowest level since September.  Melco Crown, a Macau casino operator, climbed 2.2 percent
to $22.01, rebounding from a two-week low reached the previous
day. Its ADRs traded 1.6 percent above Hong Kong shares, the
widest  premium  since June 27. Each ADR equals three underlying
shares in the company.  The company was among the top picks of Aaron Fischer, an
analyst at CLSA Ltd., who said recent weakness in some casino
shares is a good buying opportunity as liquidity tightening
concerns are “overplayed.”  Qihoo, a Beijing-based  software developer  which owns
China’s second-biggest search engine, added 2.6 percent to a
record $50.75.  Youku Slumps  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU) , the biggest video website owner in China,
sank 2.4 percent to $18.05 in New York, slumping for a third
straight day. Bona Film Group Ltd. slumped 4 percent to $4.05,
dropping the most on the China-US gauge.  China’s overseas shipments in June fell 3.1 percent from a
year earlier, the most since the global financial crisis, data
from the the nation’s customs showed yesterday. That compared
with the median estimate of a 3.7 percent gain in a Bloomberg
News survey. Imports dropped 0.7 percent, while the median
projection was for a 6 percent increase.  “Exports were disappointing, and imports were surprisingly
weak,”  Michael Wang , an emerging-markets strategist at Amiya
Capital LLP in  London , said by e-mail yesterday. “China will
have to use infrastructure spending and more fiscal stimulus to
drive growth.”  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index in Hong Kong climbed
1.8 percent to a one-week high of 9,215.08, while the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  jumped 2.2 percent to 2,008.13, the biggest gain
since March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  