-- Dechra Declines on $130 Million Services Unit Sale: London Mover
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-07-10T10:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/dechra-declines-on-130-million-services-unit-sale-london-mover.html
Dechra Pharmaceuticals Plc (DPH)  fell the
most in almost five years after the U.K. maker of veterinary
products announced plans to sell its services unit to Patterson
Cos. for 87.5 million pounds ($130 million).  The shares fell as much as 12 percent to 656 pence, the
biggest intraday drop since October 2008. The stock was down 8.1
percent at 685 pence as of 11:33 a.m. The volume of trading was
more than eight times the three-month daily average.  “The disposal is expected to be earnings dilutive in the
short term,”  Brian White , an analyst at Shore Capital, said in
a note to investors. Even so, “this will mark a significant
turning point in the company’s transition to a higher margin
animal pharmaceutical company.” Shore Capital kept a buy
recommendation on the stock.  The disposal will help the company to focus on higher-margin veterinary products and is expected to take place in mid-August, pending shareholder approval, Stoke-on-Trent, England-based Dechra said in a statement today. The unit is comprised of
National Veterinary Services, Dechra Laboratory Services and
Dechra Specialist Laboratories.  Dechra’s revenue rose by about 19 percent in the financial
year ended June 30, the company said in a trading update today.  Sebastien Jantet, an analyst at Investec Plc, said that was
a “touch below” his estimate. He lowered his earnings per
share outlook for the year by about 5 percent today because of
the sales figure and “an acceleration of investment into the
pipeline.”  The disposal “will be dilutive until Dechra redeploys the
proceeds,” Jantet said. Investec lowered its recommendation on
the stock to hold from add, with a 12-month target price of 700
pence a share.  Reducing Debt  Dechra will use cash from the disposal to reduce net debt,
according to today’s statement. The sale will also provide more
resources to develop the pharmaceuticals business organically
and via acquisition, the company said.  “Today’s disposal removes the ‘poison pill’ from the group
and makes the pure-play veterinary pharmaceutical company more
attractive to a bidder,” Savvas Neophytou, an analyst at
Panmure Gordon, said in a note. Panmure Gordon raised its
recommendation on the stock to buy from hold.  Dechra is scheduled to release preliminary full-year
results on Sept. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  