-- Depeche Mode Mixes Sleaze With Doomy Rock on World Tour
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2013-07-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/depeche-mode-mixes-sleaze-with-doomy-rock-on-world-tour.html
Doomy synths, swampy guitars and a
grizzled gnome turning priapic pirouettes: Depeche Mode is once
again having its deviant way with electro-pop. This approach has
certainly paid commercial dividends. Its artistic merits are
less convincing.  Easily dismissed as a cult alternative band, Depeche Mode
has a huge audience. In the mid 1980s the British band darkened
its perky synthpop with a heady swirl of religion, kinky sex and
industrial clanking.  A fiercely devoted fanbase flocks to the band’s notoriously
long tours. The Delta Machine tour has some 89 arena dates
stretching throughout 2013; about 24 North American shows will
take place from mid-August to October.  Dressed in black, band members Andy Fletcher and Martin
Gore stand behind plain synthesizers. No laptops in evidence.
Melodies and noises are played the old-fashioned way. The
addition of a drummer is a concession to beefier live sound.  With mundane backing videos and no stage props, the show
depends on singer Dave Gahan. Luckily he delivers sleazy
confessions and brooding pop while prancing around like Freddie Mercury reincarnated as a seahorse. No stranger to excessive
rock ‘n’ roll excess, his well-weathered features have more than
a hint of a gnarly garden ornament. He wears Cuban heels and
waistcoat, no shirt.  Jesus Stomp  Gahan perfectly inhabits the frantic synth riffs of “A
Question of Time,” a song about the legal tribulations of
teenage lust, and the turpitude of “Policy of Truth.” He is
equally convincing in the grungy stomp of “Personal Jesus.”  He fares less well in the newer songs, with their emphasis
on swampy, bluesy guitars. Mode’s lusts are too esoteric to be
convincingly earthy. Whatever the merits of his songwriting,
Gore’s guitar playing remains limited. His basic twanging soon
becomes tiresome. A plethora of songs from the  new CD  is a
reminder that Mode albums have often been patchy.  Even some classic tracks disappoint. “Enjoy the Silence,”
one of the most entrancing synthpop songs ever written, sounds
devastatingly routine; the fizz of “Just Can’t Get Enough” is
flat and tired. “Never Let Me Down Again” is shorn of its
bombast power and militaristic frisson, becoming just another
flabby singalong. Depeche Mode fans deserve something better.  Rating: **.  The Depeche Mode tour continues tonight in Bilbao,  Spain ,
and then across  Europe  including  Portugal ,  France ,  Italy , the
Czech Republic and  Poland . The North American tour is followed
by concerts in  Abu Dhabi  and Europe through February, 2014.  Information:  http://www.depechemode.com/tour/   (Robert Heller is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology,
 Jason Harper  on cars,  Martin Gayford  on European art,  Lance
Esplund  on U.S. art and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Robert Heller  in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 