-- DirecTV, Chernin-AT&T Said to Offer $1 Billion for Hulu
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-07-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/directv-chernin-at-t-said-to-bid-1-billion-for-hulu.html
DirecTV (DTV)  and a partnership of Chernin
Group and  AT&T Inc. (T)  each offered about $1 billion for online
video service Hulu LLC, according to people with knowledge of
the situation.  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , which offered to acquire a stake in
the website, remains an alternative for Hulu’s board, which is
overseeing an auction, said the people, who asked not to be
named because the sale process is private. Guggenheim Digital,
which submitted a joint bid with private equity firm  KKR & Co. (KKR) ,
was eliminated yesterday as a potential buyer, they said.  Pay-television providers are vying for Hulu, which
represents a lower-cost option than the video subscriptions on
cable and satellite systems. The website, owned by  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) , 21st Century Fox Inc. and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , offers a limited
free version of its service on computers and sells an $8-a-month
subscription with access to more programs on more devices.  Time Warner Cable, the second-largest U.S. cable TV
service, is seeking to become an investor alongside the current
owners, offering an alternative to an outright sale of the video
service, which had more than 4 million paying  customers  as of
the first quarter.  Hulu’s owners are looking for a buyer that will keep
spending on shows for the upstart Web-video site. Incumbent pay-TV providers such as Comcast, DirecTV and Time Warner Cable are
contending with the growing popularity of mobile and Web-based
viewing, and competition from companies including  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   Startup Investments  Meredith Kendall, a spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based Hulu,
declined to comment, as did Darris Gringeri, of El Segundo,
California-based DirecTV. Maureen Huff, with New York-based Time
Warner Cable, also declined to comment.  AT&T operates the U-verse pay-TV service, and Chernin
Group, producer of “Rise of the Planet of the Apes” film and
TV’s “New Girl,” has invested in startups such as Tumblr Inc.
and Flipboard Inc.  Charles Sipkins, a spokesman for Chernin Group, declined to
comment.  Guggenheim Digital and KKR initially bid separately for
Hulu before joining forces. Guggenheim Digital is an affiliate
of Guggenheim Partners LLC, the private equity firm running the
Hulu auction. In addition to the Hollywood Reporter, the digital
arm owns Dick Clark Productions.  Michael Sitrick , an outside spokesman for Guggenheim
Digital, had no comment.  CNBC reported Guggenheim Digital’s exit from the Hulu
auction earlier yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  