-- DuPont, Apple, Reynolds, Facebook: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-07-10T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/dupont-apple-reynolds-facebook-intellectual-property.html
DuPont Co. (DD) ’s DuPont Microcircuit
Materials unit has responded to a statement from its litigation
opponent in a patent suit related to photovoltaic paste
products.  In a July 8  statement , DuPont said that Hanau, Germany-based Heraeus Holding GmbH’s Heraeus Materials Technology unit
tried to end the lawsuit early “but the court agreed with
DuPont.”  Darren Haar, global business director for the DuPont unit,
said the company “will continue to enforce our  intellectual
property  where we find infringement.”  He was responding to a July 9 German-language statement
from Heraeus in which the company said that DuPont’s case is now
based on a weaker theory.  Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont filed suit in federal
court in Portland, Oregon, in June 2012, accusing Heraeus of
infringing patent 8,158,504, which covers conductive
compositions and processes for use in the manufacturing of
semiconductor devices.  On June 7, Magistrate Judge Dennis J. Hubel partially
denied and partially granted DuPont’s motion to dismiss some of
Heraeus’s counterclaims. On that same day, he also rejected
Heraeus’s motion to dismiss the case.  The court set a deadline of July 15 for DuPont to make any
filing amending its complaint.  The case is E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. v. Heraeus
Materials Technology LLC, 3:12-cv-01104-HU, U.S. District Court,
District of Oregon (Portland).  Myriad Genetics Sues Ambry to Halt Rival Breast Cancer Test  Myriad Genetics Inc., (MYGN)  a provider of tests for breast cancer
risk, filed a lawsuit yesterday to shut a competitor that set up
shop last month after a mixed U.S. Supreme Court ruling on
patents for genetic material.  Ambry Genetics , a closely held company in  Aliso Viejo ,
California, announced June 13 it would offer the breast cancer
tests hours after a high court ruling that invalidated some of
Myriad’s patent claims on genes linked to breast and ovarian
cancer.  Myriad said the Ambry tests infringe 10 other patents it
owns or licenses on the testing process that weren’t part of
that Supreme Court case. The other owners of the patents,
comprising the University of  Utah  and  University of
Pennsylvania , Ontario’s Hospital for Sick Children and
Endorecherche Inc., also joined in the suit against Ambry.  The patent owners “have been damaged and have suffered
irreparable injury due to the defendant’s acts of infringement,
and will continue to suffer irreparable injury” unless stopped
by the court, they said in the complaint.  Myriad said in the complaint that it has invested more than
$500 million to create a diagnostic test for hereditary breast
and ovarian cancer cases related to the genes it discovered,
which are known as BRCA1 and BRCA2. The efforts “have
revolutionized patient care and provided medical diagnosis and
treatment options never thought possible,” Myriad said in the
complaint.  Ambry’s rival test will cause a loss of revenue from its
tests, which in turn will mean lower royalty payments for the
patent owners, according to the complaint. They are seeking
compensation and an order that Ambry provide to the patent
owners, including Myriad, all products that infringe the patents
so they can be destroyed.  Myriad owns five of the patents and is exclusive licensee
of the other five.  The case is University of Utah Research Foundation v. Ambry
Genetics, 13-640, U.S. District Court for the District of Utah.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Apple, Amazon Dismiss Claims Over ‘App Store’ Trademark  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  dismissed claims against
each other in a two-year-old trademark lawsuit over the use of
“ app store .”  U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton in Oakland,
California, yesterday approved a request for dismissal of the
case by both companies after Apple issued to Amazon “a covenant
not to sue” on June 28 that renders Amazon’s counterclaims
moot. The companies’ request for dismissal doesn’t provide
details.  Two rounds of settlement talks had failed to resolve the
dispute, according to court filings.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, sued in 2011 seeking
a court order to block Amazon from using the term Appstore in
its service to sell software for devices running Google Inc.’s
Android operating system. Apple alleged the online retailer
infringed its trademark and violated unfair competition laws.  “This was a decision by Apple to unilaterally dismiss its
claims, leaving Amazon free to use the term Appstore,” Marty
Glick, an attorney for Amazon, said by phone yesterday.  Apple started its App Store in 2008. Seattle-based Amazon,
which started its service in March 2011, said the term is
generic and that Apple didn’t have exclusive rights to it.  “With more than 900,000 apps and 50 billion downloads,
customers know where they can purchase their favorite apps,”
 Kristin Huguet , a spokeswoman for Apple, said today in an e-mail. “We no longer see a need to pursue our case against
Amazon.”  The case is Apple Inc. v. Amazon.com Inc., 11-cv-01327,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  Reynolds, E-Cigarette Seller Settle Trademark Infringement Suit  R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. and a  New Jersey  seller of
electronic cigarettes have settled a trademark suit, according
to a court filing.  Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based Reynolds sued John
Thompson of Browns Mills, New Jersey, for trademark infringement
in April. The tobacco company objected to Thompson’s use of the
Camel, Kamel Red, Cool and Salem marks on his  PreferredVapor.com 
website.  Thompson used these marks for liquid nicotine products he
sold, Reynolds said in its pleadings. All of these marks belong
to Reynolds and “are widely recognized by the general public as
a designation of the source of Reynolds’ goods,” according to
the final judgment of a federal court in  North Carolina .  Under terms of the judgment, Thompson is barred from any
use of Reynolds trademarks including Barclay, Belair, Capri,
Carlton, Doral, Eclipse, GPC, Lucky Strike, Misty, Monarch,
More, Now,  Pall Mall , Tareyton, Vantage, Viceroy, Vuse and
Winston, in addition to the other marks previously mentioned.  The parties agreed to a consent judgment that can’t be
appealed. In addition to the bar on the use of Reynolds marks,
Thompson is also required to pay the tobacco company an
undisclosed amount of money.  Reynolds, the tobacco company second in size in the U.S.
only to  Altria Group Inc. (MO) , is getting into the electronic
cigarette market itself, rolling out its Vuse e-cigarettes this
summer.  The case is Reynolds Innovations Inc. v.  John Thompson ,
1:13-cv-00286-NCT-JEP, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
North Carolina (Greensboro).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Facebook, Ad Agency File Response to ‘Under the Influence’ Suit  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and an Oregon-based  advertising agency  have
responded to a copyright infringement suit brought by the music
publisher for the performer Eminem.  Eight Mile Style filed the suit in federal court in Detroit
May 20, claiming that music used in an advertisement for a new
feature of Facebook’s social media site used music
“substantially similar” to Eminem’s “ Under the Influence ”
song.  According to court papers, Eminem’s publisher claimed that
Facebook Inc.’s Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  has been
a longtime fan of Eminem, and that the ad agency incorporated
the disputed music into the commercial “in an effort to curry
favor with Facebook by catering to Zuckerberg’s personal likes
and interests” or to “invoke the same irreverent theme”
contained in the composition.  The complaint noted that the ad agency -- Wieden & Kennedy
Inc. of Portland, Oregon -- conceded in an April 29 letter to
Eight Mile’s counsel that the music in the ad contained
“clearly some similarities.”  In the response filed with the court June 28, Menlo Park,
California-based Facebook and the ad agency denied all the
allegations in Eight Mile’s complaint, and said that the music
contained in the commercial “is not substantially similar to
protectable expression” contained in the song.  The defendants also said that their damages, if any, should
be limited by the doctrines of innocent infringement and
innocent intent, and that any infringement that occurred was
minimal.  A scheduling conference in the case is set for Aug. 5.  The case is Eight Mile Style LLC v. Wieden & Kennedy Inc.,
2:13-cv-12268-GAD-MAR, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Michigan (Detroit).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Gas Emission Reporting Could Reveal Secrets, Industry Warns  President  Barack Obama ’s proposal on reporting information
on greenhouse gas emissions is receiving an industry response
that such requirements could put a company’s  trade secrets  at
risk, The Hill  reported .  Such data could be reverse-engineered and reverse-calculated to reveal trade secrets, Lorraine Gershman, director
of the environmental, regulatory and technical affairs office of
the American Chemistry Council said, and The Hill reported.  Gershman was speaking a meeting in late June between the
Environmental Protection Agency and representatives from the
chemical and energy industries, according to the publication.  The Federal Trade Commission took a position in 2010,
sending a letter to the Environmental Protection Agency in which
it said that releasing such information could potentially lead
to collusion that would harm consumers through higher prices,
decreased innovation and decreased quality, according to The
Hill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 