-- Mead Johnson Cuts Some Prices in China Amid Regulatory Probe
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-07-10T20:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/mead-johnson-cuts-formula-prices-in-china-amid-regulatory-probe.html
Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN)  said it
will cut prices of its main infant formula products after
Chinese regulators began an investigation into suspected price-fixing by powdered-milk producers.  Mead Johnson will lower the price of its formulas in  China 
by 7 percent to 15 percent and change its current promotional,
marketing and sales plans, the Glenview, Illinois-based company
said today in a statement.  Mead Johnson joins at least four other infant formula
makers in cutting its prices after China’s National Development
and Reform Commission, the country’s top economic planning
agency, started an investigation into the pricing of milk
powder. The Chinese agency said last week it had evidence milk-powder companies sold products at prices in China that have
increased about 30 percent since 2008, when safety scares such
as a melamine-tainted milk powder have been driving up demand
for international brands, the official People’s Daily reported
last week.  Infant-formula makers  Nestle SA (NESN) ,  Danone SA (BN) , Royal
FrieslandCampina NV and  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  have said they will
cut prices of their key products in China. Nestle and Danone
said they will lower the prices of certain infant-formula
products as much as 20 percent. Abbott Laboratories said it will
cut prices 4 percent to 12 percent and FrieslandCampina said it
will reduce prices 5 percent.  “For the sake of the healthy development of the industry,
and to reinforce the trust and support of Chinese consumers, the
company will optimize its marketing and sales strategy and
adjust current pricing and promotional plans,” Mead Johnson
said.  Mead Johnson rose 3.8 percent to $72.95 at the close in  New
York . The company’s shares gained 11 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  