-- EasyJet Investors Back $13 Billion Order as Founder Fumes
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-07-11T11:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/easyjet-investors-mull-13-billion-order-as-founder-fumes.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  shareholders backed an
order for 135 Airbus SAS jets valued at $13 billion, cementing
Chief Executive Officer Carolyn McCall’s strategy of going toe-to-toe with former flag carriers on short-haul routes.  Today’s ballot at EasyJet’s Luton,  England , base followed
months of opposition from founder and top investor  Stelios Haji-Ioannou , who while viewing the plan as misguided and harmful to
dividend prospects had predicted on July 1 that McCall would
win. Some 57 percent of votes were cast in favor of the deal.  Approval of the A320 purchase bolsters McCall’s plans to
capture market share ceded by network carriers such as Air
France and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and move EasyJet further from
its founder’s discount focus. While No. 2 to  Ryanair Holdings
Plc (RYA)  among  Europe ’s low-cost airlines, EasyJet has watered down
its no-frills approach in favor of a model that offers ancillary
services such as flexible tickets to draw corporate traffic.  “If you look at where we are in our various markets there
are legacy carriers in all of them,” Chairman John Barton, who
took on the post on May 1, told reporters at the meeting. “We
believe we can compete and take more market share. What we have
to do is ensure that we are cheap enough in cost terms.”  ‘Unique Point’  More than 193 million votes backed the aircraft
acquisition, with 144 million against and 346,000 withheld,
representing an 85 percent turnout.  Prudential Plc (PRU) ’s M&G Investments, which owns about 5
percent of EasyJet stock, backed management last August, when
Stelios, who goes by his first name, sought to topple then-chairman Michael Rake, and intended to support McCall today, a
person familiar with its intentions said prior to the meeting.  EasyJet first announced the jet order last month during the
 Paris Air Show , saying that it was subject to investor approval.  “It’s a unique point in history where the flags are
undergoing so much stress and strain in short-haul that EasyJet
has a readymade opportunity to transform its own model,” said
Donal O’Neill, a Dublin-based analyst at  Goodbody Stockbrokers 
who recommends buying the stock. “They’ve seen an opportunity
to take significant market share on key business routes.”  Share Surge  EasyJet had a market value of 5.28 billion pounds ($8
billion) at 12:25 p.m. in  London  today, triple what the company
was worth when McCall, 51, took over in July 2010, having joined
as an aviation novice from Guardian Media Group Plc. She also
delivered a coup when the company entered Britain’s benchmark
FTSE 100 Index for the first time in March.  EasyJet plans to take 35 current-generation A320s between
2015 and 2017 and 100 re-engined A320neos from 2017 to 2022.
Some 85 aircraft will replace older ones, with the rest boosting
capacity by as much as 5 percent a year. The deal with Airbus
gives flexibility to grow the 211-plane fleet to 298 jets by
2022 or shrink it to 165, according to a June 18 statement.  Like most aircraft buyers, EasyJet hasn’t disclosed the
cost of the jets, which come with a list price of $91.5 million
for the A320 and $100.2 million for the A320neo, and is likely
to have negotiated a discount of as much as 55 percent,
according to Panmure Gordon & Co. analyst  Gert Zonneveld .  The A320neos are more efficient than the A319s that
dominate the current fleet and have 24 more seats, delivering an
11-12 percent saving, EasyJet estimates.  Reduced Holding  Stelios trimmed his family’s stake to 36 percent this year
and has threatened to sell more shares if extra jets are bought.  The entrepreneur, who founded EasyJet in 1995 and now lives
mainly in  Monaco , said in a July 1 letter to shareholders he was
“disappointed” that newcomer Barton had approved such a large
transaction so quickly and that investors were being asked to
sign off on the purchase without clear price information.  “It is my firm opinion that this is a good deal for Airbus
and a bad deal for EasyJet shareholders,” he said. Stelios also
wants a dividend equal to half of profit after tax, up from the
one-third ratio adopted by McCall after a first payout in 2012.  The 46-year-old, who stood down as EasyJet’s chairman in
2002 and quit the board in 2010 saying he wanted to become “a
shareholder activist,” declined to be interviewed ahead of
today’s investor meeting. His  EasyGroup  holding company, which
controlled 146 million EasyJet shares on Jan. 22, also includes
hotel, gym, fast food and vehicle and office rental businesses.  ‘Meticulous’  Barton said today he hasn’t yet met with Stelios but has
had a “healthy e-mail correspondence,” adding that some of the
pressure brought to bear on the board has been positive. “It has
made us be meticulous in our governance of this deal and made us
go through the figures again and again,” the chairman said.  EasyJet anticipates that the fleet expansion will generate
“bigger and better returns,” after which it will further examine
how best to return surplus cash to shareholders, he added.  Goodbody’s O’Neill said that while it’s good to have a
shareholder challenge the management team, “everything they
have done so far has led to improved profitability, improved
margins and improved returns.”  EasyJet’s migration into more business-oriented routes has
this year seen it add flights between London and Moscow, where
it competes with  British Airways (IAG) , and Rome Fiumicino and Milan
Linate, breaking into a market dominated by Alitalia SpA.  Majors Respond  Things may get tougher if restructuring plans at network
carriers end losses in short-haul markets, with the purchase of
Spanish discounter Vueling Airlines SA by BA parent IAG and
Lufthansa’s plan to rebuild European flights around its low-cost
Germanwings unit suggesting rivals are learning from EasyJet.  “The better the model works, the more people are going to
want to imitate it,” said Damian Brewer, an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in London who cites competition from Vueling at
 London Gatwick , EasyJet’s main base, and the handover to
Germanwings of routes from Berlin. “It’s a clear piece of
defensive strategy to reduce EasyJet’s ability to expand.”  Stephen Furlong  at Davy Holdings in Dublin downgraded
EasyJet to “neutral” earlier this year and reckons the company
won’t have things entirely its own way in some markets.  “Vueling and Germanwings represent some sort of threat,
but it’s a pretty localized one,” said the analyst, who lists
as his top airline picks Ryanair and IAG, as International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA is known.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  