-- Egypt’s New Government Should Focus on the Economy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-10T22:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/egypt-s-new-government-should-focus-on-the-economy.html
The future that  Egypt ’s military has
in mind for the country is taking shape. Much of it is
discouraging, but if the new transitional government adopts a
laser-like focus on reviving the economy, it will provide a ray
of hope.  After killing more than 50 supporters of Mohamed Mursi, the
deposed president, the military on July 8 ordered the arrest of
Mohammed Badie, the Muslim Brotherhood’s leader, and as many as
650 others. This is a terrible decision that renders absurd the
generals’ simultaneous calls for national reconciliation.  The military’s new road map for elections wisely proposes
to make them happen in just six months. However, they are
contingent on the passage of constitutional amendments that are
to be produced by a committee of lawyers appointed by the
military. This will prevent the kind of broad national consensus
that sustainable constitutional change demands. Not even the
youthful Tamarud protest movement supports this arrangement, let
alone the Brotherhood.  The result is that the military’s July 2 assumption of
power looks increasingly like an old-fashioned coup. With each
day, the risk grows that Egypt’s Islamists will choose bullets
over the ballot box.  So where might one find a bright spot amid the gloom? The
new interim prime minister will be Hazem El-Beblawi, a respected
economist and former finance minister. With El-Beblawi, Egypt
has the chance to have a broadly based, technocratic cabinet,
run by a prime minister whose preoccupation will be repairing
the country’s economy.  It is hard to overstate the importance of this mission.
Economic problems are what motivated Egyptians to revolt against
President  Hosni Mubarak  in 2011. Mursi’s great mistake was to
ignore the economy, focusing instead on consolidating power and
using cash injections from Qatar and  Turkey  to buy time. During
his single year in office, he allowed unemployment to soar to
more than 13 percent, from 9 percent before the fall of Mubarak.  The interim government would be smart to quickly take the
steps Mursi failed to put in place. This means embracing reforms
that the  International Monetary Fund  requires as a condition for
releasing $4.8 billion in aid, such as increasing the  sales tax 
to 12.5 percent from 10 percent and introducing smart cards for
fuel purchases, which would give the government the data it
needs to figure out where the country’s enormous energy
subsidies are going so that they can be lowered. To soften the
impact of the reduced subsidies, the government would need to
develop a cash-based social safety net for Egypt’s poorest.  Once these reforms are in place, the  World Bank  is expected
to release $2 billion more; the European Union, the U.S. and
private foreign investors would probably follow suit. Only a
revival of investment can produce the growth and jobs that will
get protesters off Egypt’s streets.  Egypt is not without support. This week,  Saudi Arabia ,
 United Arab Emirates  and  Kuwait  together pledged $12 billion to
give the country some breathing room. The next six months may
offer the best chance Egypt has to renew its economy. Of course,
the country also needs political stability, which requires that
the Muslim Brotherhood be coaxed back to the table. But this
simple fact can’t be lost: A growing economy that produces jobs
is the prerequisite for any lasting solution to Egypt’s
troubles.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 