-- Eisner Predicts Hulu to Lose Next-Day TV Rights Post-Sale
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   E r l i c h m a n   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-07-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/eisner-predicts-hulu-to-lose-next-day-tv-rights-following-sale.html
The buyers of Hulu LLC will lose
next-day rights to television shows that the service now enjoys
under its current owners,  Michael Eisner , former chairman of
Walt Disney Co., said in an interview.  Eisner, who spoke yesterday on Bloomberg Television at the
Allen & Co. conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, said he considered
bidding for Hulu, the video service owned by Disney,  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA)  and  21st Century Fox Inc. (FOXA)   The price that suitors are willing to pay for Hulu has been
driven by the value of the site’s programming, which mostly
consists of prime-time comedies and dramas from ABC, NBC and
Fox.  DirecTV (DTV) , owner of the biggest satellite TV system, and a
partnership of Chernin Group LLC and  AT&T Inc. (T)  each bid about $1
billion, people told Bloomberg on July 9. Those companies want
to build Hulu into the next Netflix Inc., Eisner said.  “If it is bought by a content-oriented production kind of
company, it will then move from a company that is basically
repeat broadcasting to original broadcasting,” said Eisner, 71.
“That is very expensive. Therefore, the price you pay for the
actual asset will be tempered by what you think you have to
spend to make that asset work because NBC, Fox, ABC are not
going to give you a great deal anymore on their own content.”  ABC and Fox are offering Hulu’s eventual buyer two years of
rights for the $8-a-month Hulu Plus subscription service, which
provides more programming on more devices, and a five-year
extension of rights to the free service.  “The thing they are selling it as is near-term repeats of
network programs,” Eisner said. “The sellers, Disney and the
other two owners, are selling it and taking away basically the
next-day availability of their content.”  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-biggest U.S. cable
system, offered to become a partner in Hulu alongside the
current owners, providing an alternative to an outright sale. A
partnership of Guggenheim Digital and private equity firm  KKR &
Co. (KKR)  left the bidding process on July 9, people with knowledge of
the situation said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Erlichman in New York at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  