-- Telecom Italia Is Said to Face About 6% Cut for Access Fees
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-07-11T07:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/telecom-italia-is-said-to-face-about-6-cut-in-grid-access-fees.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  may be ordered by
the country’s communications regulator to cut what it charges
competitors for access to its fixed-line grid, costing the phone
company as much as 6 percent of revenue from that business, two
people familiar with the matter said.  The watchdog known as Agcom is scheduled to meet today to
review the pricing for renting “last-mile” access to Telecom
Italia’s copper-wire network. The regulator may reduce the
monthly fee to about 8.70 euros ($11.18) from 9.28 euros
currently, said the people, who asked not to be named because
the talks are private.  Telecom Italia, Italy’s  biggest phone company , generates
about 590 million euros of revenue each year from renting
“last-mile” access to 5.3 million lines, according to the
people. The fee reduction would cut the rental revenue by about
37 million euros, one of the people said. Customers include
Telecom Italia rivals such as  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) ’s Wind
Telecomunicazioni SpA unit and  Swisscom AG (SCMN) ’s Fastweb SpA.  Telecom Italia has argued that a less rigid regulatory
stance on its proposal to spin off the fixed-line grid is
crucial for its success. The company’s directors on May 30
approved the plan to separate the network, setting a precedent
for  Europe ’s indebted phone companies as they look for new ways
to raise funds and bargain for lighter regulations.  ‘Under Pressure’  “Any reductions of unbundling rates right now, just after
the spinoff plan has been presented by the company, could impact
the evaluation of the fixed-line network,” said Carlo Alberto
Carnevale-Maffe, a professor of business strategy at Milan’s
 Bocconi University .  Spokesmen for Milan-based Telecom Italia and Rome-based
Agcom declined to comment. Telecom Italia shares rose 0.6
percent to 53 cents at 9:01 a.m. in Milan  The regulator, under pressure by Telecom Italia’s rivals to
reduce network-access costs, has held public hearings on its
proposal for a lower monthly rate of between 8.62 euros and 9.25
euros.  European Commissioner  Neelie Kroes , in charge of creating a
plan to stimulate investment in telecommunications for the
European Union’s administrative branch, told the European
Parliament this week that she plans to create more consistent
ways to access fixed networks as part of her plan to unify the
continent’s infrastructure.  Grid Access  Accessing the grid is “too hard, especially across
borders,” she said. “Less red tape, less cost, less hassle:
that’s what a single market means.”  Likewise, regulators in Europe have slashed the price
mobile operators can charge for access to their networks. The
maximum mobile-termination rates dropped 74 percent to 0.67
pence per minute in the U.K. between April 2011 and 2013,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Termination rates in
Italy are as high as 0.98 euro cents per minute this month,
compared with between 6.6 cents and 9 cents charged in 2011.  Poland ,  Belgium ,  Hungary , Spain, France, Germany and
Denmark all reduced the upper limit for the mobile charges this
year, too. In the U.K., the country’s regulator is proposing to
cut the prices  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  charges for access to its copper
network, in order to encourage network investment and ensure
broadband is affordable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  