-- Emerging Stocks Rise on China as Turkey’s Bond Risk Soars
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-07-10T22:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/emerging-stocks-rise-for-second-day-as-chinese-equities-surge.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
second day on speculation  China  will act to stimulate the
economy after a decline in exports. Turkey’s default swaps
jumped the most in two weeks after  Fitch Ratings  said social
unrest could put the nation’s investment-grade status at risk.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.3 percent to 915.63,
extending a two-day advance to 1.1 percent. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  surged the most in three months as Yanzhou China
Coal Energy Co. soared 10 percent, while Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV) 
increased for the first time in three days as commodity
producers rallied. Turkey’s currency tumbled and the cost to
protect against default on debt climbed the most since June 24.  Chinese stocks drove gains in developing-nation shares as
an unexpected drop in exports bolstered bets the government will
stimulate the economy. Equities briefly extended gains as
minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s last meeting showed many
officials want to see further progress in the employment market
before the central bank slows the pace of bond purchases.  “We’ve reached a point where bad news is good news,
because it’s so bad they’re going to have to do something about
it,” said Patrick Chovanec, the New York-based chief strategist
at Silvercrest Asset Management Group LLC, referring to Chinese
data. His firm manages $14 billion in assets. “People are
comfortable with the status quo, which is the Fed being
extremely supportive. This is the world that people know.”  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund slid 1 percent to $37.52. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
added 5.1 percent to 27.  Eight of  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
gained today as utility and technology shares had the biggest
advances. The broad measure has slumped 13 percent this year,
compared with a 10 percent jump in the MSCI World Index. The
developing-nation gauge  trades  at 9.6 times projected earnings,
lower than the MSCI World’s valuation of 13.6.  Brazil’s Ibovespa added 0.9 percent as Usinas Siderurgicas
de Minas Gerais SA advanced after JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised
its recommendation on the steelmaker to the equivalent of hold.
Cia. Paranaense de Energia, the electricity distributor known as
Copel, rallied after after Brazil’s regulator approved a rate
adjustment. The real fell 0.2 percent.  Turkey, Russia  The Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index
dropped 1.3 percent for the biggest decline among major
emerging-market indexes. The lira declined for the first time in
three days.  Russian equities fell for a second day as OAO Raspadskaya,
a coal producer, dropped 3.4 percent. Benchmark gauges in
 Poland (WIG20) ,  Hungary  and the  Czech Republic  advanced.  The Shanghai Composite gained 2.2 percent, the most since
March 20. Yanzhou Coal, China’s fourth-biggest coal miner,
surged by the maximum daily limit. Ping An Bank Co. and
Industrial Bank Co. rallied.  India’s  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  lost 0.8 percent, with volume 21
percent less than the 30-day average. Reliance Industries Ltd.,
owner of the world’s largest refining complex, decreased the
most in a week, the biggest drag on the index. The rupee added
0.8 percent to 59.6550 per dollar at the close in Mumbai,
gaining for the second day, boosted by steps taken by the
regulators on July 8 after the currency slid to a record.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose 0.04 percentage point to 337 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Summers in New York at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  