-- Australia Trails by 140 as Ashes Starts With 14 Wickets
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-07-11T00:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/england-reaches-98-2-at-lunch-on-first-day-of-ashes-cricket-test.html
Australia  resumes its reply in the
first Ashes cricket Test today trailing  England  by 140 runs
after 14 wickets fell on the opening day of the series.  England was all out for 215 yesterday after winning the
toss at Trent Bridge in  Nottingham  as Australia fast bowler
 Peter Siddle  took five wickets for 50 runs. The tourists slipped
to 75-4 at the close of play.  The home team, seeking to win three straight Ashes series
for the first time since 1956, recovered from the loss of its
last four wickets for two runs by removing Australia’s top four
batsmen. Steve Smith will resume on 38, with Phil Hughes on 7.  “Hopefully the sun will come out and we can set up the
match,” Siddle said. “If we can get in there, dig in and be
patient, there is still Brad Haddin to come and a few of us
tail-enders can still bat. I think we are still on top.”  In overcast conditions, Siddle again dominated the opening
day of an Ashes series having taken 6-54 when the teams met in
Brisbane in November 2010. He was supported yesterday by James
Pattinson who took 3-69, while Mitchell Starc claimed the other
two wickets.  Eight wickets fell in the final session after England had
reached 185-6 at the tea interval. The score moved to 213 before
Stuart Broad, Jonny Bairstow, Graeme Swann and Steven Finn were
dismissed in the last two overs.  England struck back as Finn removed Shane Watson and  Ed Cowan  in successive balls and James Anderson took two wickets
including Australia captain Michael Clarke without scoring.  Trott Top Scores  Jonathan Trott earlier top scored with 48 for England,
which reached 98-2 at lunch and lost its last six wickets for 37
runs to be bowled out in 59 overs.  “We’d have liked to get more runs on the board batting
first, but the fight back at the end to get four wickets leaves
us in a strong position,” Finn said.  Australia sprung a surprise by handing 19-year-old Ashton
Agar his Test debut in place of regular spinner Nathan Lyon.
Agar allowed 24 runs without a wicket in his seven overs.  The visiting team had entered the Ashes with uncertainty on
and off the pitch. Australia was beaten 4-0 by  India  in March,
the first time it’s been swept in a series of more than three
Tests since 1970, and coach Mickey Arthur was fired June 24 and
replaced by Darren Lehmann.  Several team members also have been disciplined for
breaches of conduct this year, the latest being last month when
David Warner was suspended for punching England’s Joe Root in a
bar during the Champions Trophy tournament.  Australia said yesterday that Warner will be released from
the Ashes squad to join Australia’s second-string team for
matches in  Zimbabwe  and South Africa, where he’ll get game time
to prepare for a return to England.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  