-- England Seeks to Add to British Success With Ashes Victory
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-07-10T09:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/england-seeks-to-add-to-british-sports-success-with-ashes-win.html
England  cricket captain  Alastair Cook  would love to extend last weekend’s British sporting
success into his team’s Ashes series against  Australia .  Following  Andy Murray  becoming the first Wimbledon men’s
champion from Britain since 1936 and the British and Irish Lions
winning their first rugby series in 16 years, England and
Australia renew a rivalry stretching back to 1882 today at  Trent
Bridge  in Nottingham with the first of five Test matches.  “It was an incredible moment for British sport when Andy
won Wimbledon and when the Lions won after such a long period,”
Cook said yesterday at a news conference. “We’d love to be able
to join them in that success, but there’s a lot of hard work to
do first.”  Cook won the toss this morning and elected to bat first.
Australian captain  Michael Clarke  handed 19-year-old left-arm
spin bowler Ashton Agar his Test debut in place of regular
spinner Nathan Lyon.  “It may be a surprise to some, but not to us,” Clarke
told  Sky Sports  after the coin toss. “He’s bowled really well
and England have a lot of right-handers.”  England is the 1-3 favorite with bookmaker  William Hill  Plc
to win the Ashes for a third straight time, meaning a successful
$3 bet returns $1 plus the original stake. Australia is a 4-1
choice, with the odds for a series draw at 6-1.  Australian Uncertainty  The visiting team enters the Ashes with uncertainty on and
off the pitch. Australia was beaten 4-0 by  India  in March, the
first time it’s been swept in a series of more than three Tests
since 1970, and coach Mickey Arthur was fired June 24 and
replaced by Darren Lehmann.  Several team members also have been disciplined for
breaches of conduct this year, the latest being last month when
 David Warner  was punished for punching England’s Joe Root in a
bar during the Champions Trophy tournament. That’s helped send
most of the betting money England’s way.  “We’re still not convinced Australia are not in severe
disarray,” William Hill spokesman Rupert Adams said in a
telephone interview. “There is a theory that Lehmann’s return
will make a difference. But it doesn’t change the fact that you
changed your coach two weeks before.”  Australia has a 31-30 lead all-time in the Ashes, with five
draws. England has won three of the four series since Australia
ran off eight straight wins between 1989 and 2003.  Pietersen Returns  The host is bolstered by the return of  Kevin Pietersen ,
who’s been sidelined from the national team since March by a
knee injury. The 33-year-old batsman, who made his Test debut in
the 2005 Ashes, averages 52.7 runs against Australia, more than
3.5 runs better than his career average.  “He’s ready to play,” Cook said. “He’s performed on
numerous occasions when the pressure’s at its biggest. He loves
the big occasion and it doesn’t surprise me if he scores a lot
of runs.”  Australia also gets a boost with Clarke, named the leading
cricketer of 2012 by Wisden Cricketers’ Almanack, returning from
a back injury that forced him out of the final match of the
India series.  “It’s about time I scored some runs for Australia,”
Clarke, who scored a national-record 1,595 Test runs last year,
said yesterday. “I’m going to make sure I’m focused on my job.
I’ve got to make sure I’m scoring runs and leading by example.”  England’s 3-1 series win in 2010-11 was its first on
Australian soil in 24 years. Another triumph would give it three
consecutive victories for the first time since 1956.  “It obviously hurt losing the last two Ashes series and
that will never go away,” Australia vice-captain  Brad Haddin 
told reporters two days ago. “But it’s a new campaign, new
dreams are made, new experiences are about to be had. It’s
important we move forward and enjoy this for what it is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 