-- English Says N.Z. Rates Will Rise Eventually Even Amid Kiwi Risk
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-07-10T02:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/english-says-n-z-rates-will-rise-eventually-even-amid-kiwi-risk.html
New Zealand Finance Minister  Bill English  said the country’s central bank will have to raise
 interest rates  eventually, even if that risks driving up the
local dollar.  “New Zealanders think they are going to have 5 percent
rates forever,” English said at an event in Wellington today,
referring to the current level of mortgage lending rates. “Well
they aren’t. They are going to go up, it’s just a matter of
when.” The kiwi rose after the comments, climbing about a
quarter of a U.S. cent to as high as 78.73 cents, before sliding
after  China  reported an unexpected drop in June exports.  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand has refrained from raising
its  benchmark rate  from a record-low 2.5 percent to tackle a
housing boom partly because of concerns that may reignite
interest in the kiwi dollar. While the currency has dropped
about 9 percent against the greenback in the past three months,
its strength in recent years has hurt  New Zealand ’s exporters
and curbed economic growth.  English today voiced concern about New Zealand raising
rates before other nations, saying this could push up the dollar
and undermine an economic recovery that’s gaining momentum.  “One of the risks to New Zealand is being the first
developed country to lift interest rates,” he said. With low
rates elsewhere, investors would be attracted to a higher yield
“and we’d end up with an  exchange rate  going too high,” he
said.  Stronger Outlook  While the central bank has signaled it doesn’t intend to
increase borrowing costs until the second half of next year,
many economists say it will be forced to act sooner as  house
prices  soar and the economy picks up. Business optimism neared a
four-year high in the second quarter, with firms saying they
were more likely to invest and hire workers, according to a New
Zealand Institute of Economic Research Inc.  survey  published
yesterday.  “A number of recent indicators confirm the economy is on
the right track and the future is looking brighter,” English
said earlier today in a speech. “We are seeing momentum
building towards a stronger, more stable economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  