-- Tepco Urged to Protect Ocean as Groundwater Contamination Rises
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-07-10T04:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/tepco-urged-to-protect-ocean-as-groundwater-contamination-rises.html
Japan’s atomic regulator urged  Tokyo
Electric Power Co. (9501)  to speed up completion of a seawall to
protect the ocean from rising levels of contamination detected
in the Fukushima nuclear plant’s groundwater.  The utility known as Tepco should try to finish building
the wall earlier than the planned completion date of by March
2015 and should attempt to remove contaminated water collecting
in trenches at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, the Nuclear
Regulation Authority said today in a statement.  “It is strongly suspected that highly contaminated water
leaking underground may be seeping into the ocean,” the agency
said in the statement.  The recommendations highlight safety concerns over nuclear
power as the regulator considers requests by utilities to
restart atomic plants idled for safety checks after the March
2011 meltdowns at the Dai-Ichi station.  They were also released after Tepco, which has struggled
with the handling of contaminated water at Fukushima, announced
that it found levels of cesium 137 in the plant’s groundwater at
levels 244 times those considered safe for an atomic plant.  The utility found the radioactive isotope at levels of
22,000 becquerels per liter at a monitoring well in its turbine
complex at the Dai-Ichi plant yesterday, it said in a statement.
 Japan ’s nuclear safety guidelines require cesium 137 levels for
waste liquids at nuclear plants to remain below 90 becquerels
per liter.  Safety Levels  The cesium 137 levels had risen from 18,000 becquerels per
liter a day earlier, while those of cesium 134 increased to
11,000 becquerels from 9,000, Tepco said. The nuclear safety
guidelines require cesium 134 levels at plants to remain below
60 becquerels per liter. Japan’s safety limit for radioactive
materials in drinking water is 10 becquerels per liter.  A separate monitoring well at the turbine complex showed
cesium 137 levels stable at 0.74 becquerels per liter between
July 8 and 9, while cesium 134 increased to 0.50 becquerels from
0.49 becquerels.  The Tokyo-based company didn’t provide a reason for the
spike in radiation levels nor did it explain why levels varied
so much at different monitoring wells.  The higher levels of radioactivity were found in a well
that Tepco began surveying on July 7 as part of its monitoring
of strontium and tritium found in groundwater at the wrecked
Fukushima site.  Tepco President Naomi Hirose said last week that the
company would seek permission to start two reactors at its
Kashiwazaki-Kariwa plant in Niigata prefecture as soon as
possible.  The utility, which had a 685.3 billion yen ($6.8 billion)
loss last fiscal year, said in May 2012 that it would return to
profit this year if reactors at the plant are restarted.  Kansai Electric Power Co. and three other regional
utilities have applied to Japan’s nuclear regulator for safety
checks, a step toward restarting reactors idled after the
Fukushima atomic disaster in March 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in 東京 at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  