-- Mets to Skip Harvey’s Final Start Before Baseball All-Star Game
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-10T17:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/mets-to-skip-harvey-s-final-start-before-baseball-all-star-game.html
New York  Mets pitcher Matt Harvey
will skip his final scheduled start on July 13, three days
before Major League Baseball’s All-Star Game at his home field.  Carlos Torres  will start against the Pittsburgh Pirates on
instead of Harvey, Mets spokesman  Jay Horwitz  said.  Mets manager Terry Collins had said yesterday that he may
sit Harvey as the 24-year-old right-hander prepares to pitch in
the All-Star Game on July 16 at Citi Field in New York. Harvey
also had a blister on his right index finger that he said is
affecting the feel of pitches.  “Any time you can give a young pitcher any rest is always
a wise choice,” former major-league pitcher  Derek Lowe  said on
a conference call today promoting the American Century
Championship celebrity golf event. “This is great for the city.
He’s created such a tremendous buzz and rightfully so. Guys want
to see him pitch, the city wants to see him pitch.”  Voted to the All-Star Game in his first full major-league
season, Harvey is a candidate to start for the National League,
according to Bruce Bochy, the San Francisco Giants’ manager who
will lead the NL squad. Collins is an NL coach.  Harvey has a 7-2 record this year with a 2.35 earned-run
average, the fourth lowest in baseball. His 147 strikeouts rank
second behind Texas Rangers starter  Yu Darvish , who has 157.  In his three starts since developing the blister, Harvey is
0-1 with a 4.05 ERA.  The Mets are 39-48 and in fourth place in the five-team NL
East, 11 1/2 games behind the division-leading  Atlanta Braves .
That doesn’t mean Harvey’s missed start will play well with all
Mets’ fans, according to Lowe.  “It is New York, so there’s probably going to be backlash
for anything,” he said. “It doesn’t really matter what you do,
people are going to say it’s a bad choice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  