-- EU Plans $22 Billion Research From Electronics to Drugs
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-07-10T10:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/eu-plans-22-billion-research-from-electronics-to-drugs.html
The European Union proposed research
initiatives totaling 17.5 billion euros ($22 billion) for
electronics, airplanes, agriculture, medicines and cars, seeking
to expand programs funded by governments and industry.  The European Commission outlined a 4.8 billion-euro program
to spur the development of electronic components, a 4 billion-euro project for cleaner aircraft, a 3.8 billion-euro plan for
renewable natural resources, a 3.5 billion-euro medicines
initiative and a 1.4 billion-euro program for hydrogen-powered
cars. Companies would fund as much as almost 75 percent.  EU public-private partnerships in research and development,
begun in 2007, aim to help the 28-nation bloc raise R&D spending
to 3 percent of gross domestic product from 2 percent and bridge
the gap with the U.S. and  Japan . The goal is to overcome
fragmentation in Europe by concentrating EU funds and enticing
companies to invest more.  “These initiatives not only strengthen our economy, they
are an investment in a better quality of life,” EU Research
Commissioner Maire Geoghegan-Quinn said in a statement today in
Brussels. “Working together will enable us to tackle issues
that no one company or country can deal with alone.”  The EU is seeking to emerge from a recession, tackle 11
percent unemployment and deploy a new spending plan for 2014-2020. The bloc is also struggling to overcome a three-year debt
crisis that has threatened to fragment the 17-nation euro area.  Climate Change  The research plans, which would be for seven to 10 years as
of 2014, largely reflect the EU’s concerns about climate change
and dependence on imports of polluting fuels such as oil. The
plane, car and natural-resources initiatives center on cleaner
energy.  All five proposals by the commission, the EU’s regulatory
arm, need the support of the bloc’s governments.  The electronics research program would be 50 percent
financed by companies including  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  and
 Siemens AG (SIE) , and 50 percent funded by the EU and national
governments.  The public funding for the other four projects would come
only from the EU budget.  The plane project, dubbed “Clean Sky,” aims to attract 56
percent funding from companies such as  European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  and Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc.  The natural-resources plan, which didn’t exist before and
is intended to promote bio-based industries, would be 74 percent
financed by manufacturers including  Novozymes A/S. (NZYMB)   The medicines initiative would be 50 percent supported by
companies such as  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , while
the program for hydrogen-powered cars would be 50 percent funded
by such manufacturers as  Daimler AG. (DAI)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  