-- EU Removes Philippine Air, Conviasa From Access Blacklist
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-07-10T12:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/eu-removes-philippine-air-conviasa-from-access-blacklist.html
The European Union lifted a three-year-old flight ban on Philippine Airlines Inc. and a 15-month
prohibition on Venezuela’s Conviasa under the latest changes to
a list of unsafe carriers.  The EU said oversight improvements by aviation authorities
in the  Philippines  and the ability of Philippine Airlines “to
ensure effective compliance with relevant aviation safety
regulations” justify allowing the carrier to fly in the 28-nation bloc. It said Conviasa, Venezuela’s state airline,
resolved “serious safety deficiencies.”  The decision leaves unchanged the EU’s ban on all other
Philippines-based airlines including  Cebu Air Inc. (CEB) , Southeast
Asian Airlines Inc. and Zest Airways Inc. The bloc put all
Philippine carriers on its blacklist in March 2010, citing
shortcomings in the Asian country’s regulation of the industry.
Conviasa was added in April 2012 because of “numerous safety
concerns” resulting from accidents and European ramp checks.  Countries and airlines can be removed from the list “if
they show real commitment and capacity to implement
international safety standards in a sustainable manner,”
European Transport Commissioner Siim Kallas said in a statement
today in Brussels.  Philippine Airlines may start flying to EU destinations as
soon as September, President Ramon Ang said today in  Manila . The
carrier is preparing to fly to London, Paris, Frankfurt,
Amsterdam, Rome and  Madrid , he said.  “This welcome development signals the westward expansion
of our international route network,” Ang said after the EU
announcement.  This is the 21st update of a  blacklist  first drawn up by
the European Commission in March 2006 with more than 90
airlines, mainly from  Africa . The ban covers passenger and cargo
carriers from nations including the  Democratic Republic  of
Congo,  Equatorial Guinea , Gabon, Liberia and  Sudan .  Airline Crashes  Airline crashes in 2004 and 2005 that killed hundreds of
European travelers prompted EU governments to seek a uniform
approach to airline safety through a common blacklist. The list,
updated generally twice a year, is based on deficiencies found
during checks at European airports, the use of antiquated
aircraft by companies and shortcomings by non-EU airline
regulators.  In addition to imposing an operational ban in  Europe , the
blacklist can act as a guide for travelers worldwide and
influence safety policies in non-EU countries. Nations that are
home to carriers with poor safety records can ground them to
avoid being put on the EU list, while countries keen to keep out
unsafe foreign airlines can use the European list as a guide for
their own bans.  In its last update in December, the commission removed
carriers certified in Mauritania from the list because of
“exceptional progress” made by the authorities there. In its
statement today, the commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, said
“good signs of progress are also coming from a number of other
African countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  