-- EU’s Barnier Confident of Beating Deadline for U.S. Swaps Deal
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-07-10T11:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/eu-s-barnier-confident-of-beating-deadline-for-u-s-swaps-deal.html
Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial
services chief, said he’s confident a deal can be reached with
the U.S. to resolve disagreements over swaps rules before a July
12 deadline.  “We have worked a lot with  Gary Gensler ’s team,” Barnier
told reporters today in Brussels, in reference to the chairman
of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. “One or two
outstanding points remain, so we have progressed a lot,” he
said.  The international reach of CFTC swap-trading requirements
has been one of the most controversial elements of the agency’s
Dodd-Frank Act rules, prompting opposition from financial
companies including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (G)  and  Barclays Plc. (BARC) 
The CFTC has faced criticism from European and Asian regulators
over a rule requiring trades to be guaranteed at clearinghouses
and traded on exchanges or other platforms, with nations warning
of overlapping requirements and extra costs for their banks.  The EU and U.S. are seeking to broker a deal on the
measures ahead of Friday’s vote by the U.S. agency. The vote
coincides with the expiry of temporary exemptions from the rules
for overseas-based companies.  “We are working a lot, and I’m confident that we’ll reach
an agreement,” Barnier said, adding that he will travel to the
U.S. next week for meetings with regulators.  Mark Carney , chairman of the Financial Stability Board, has
said that the FSB will report to the Group of 20 nations in
September on efforts by regulators to resolve “outstanding
cross-border issues” for swaps regulation, “including gaps,
overlaps and inconsistencies.”  The FSB brings together regulators, central bankers and
finance ministry officials from the G-20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  