-- EU’s Longest-Serving Leader Juncker May Face Confidence Vote
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-07-10T16:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/eu-s-longest-serving-leader-juncker-may-face-no-confidence-vote.html
Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, the European Union’s longest-serving head of
government, may face a no-confidence vote in parliament after he
was implicated in a probe into spying by his security service.  Juncker , 58, who led the group of  euro-area finance
ministers  until January, is “politically responsible” for his
failure to inform lawmakers of “irregularities and supposed
illegalities” by the State Intelligence Service, according to a
July 5 report by the country’s legislature.  Parliament  called Juncker to testify today in a session
that began at 2 p.m. in Luxembourg. He concluded about two hours
of testimony by denying allegations that he had used the secret
service to further his own aims and those of his Christian
Social People’s Party.  “This is not the kind of person I am,” Juncker said. “If
you think that I am, then vote.”  The secret service is accused of irregularities and
possible illegal activities, especially during the period from
2004 to 2008, according to the report. The inquiry was triggered
by reports last year that the former head of the service had
secretly recorded a conversation with Juncker.  ‘Political Responsibility’  According to the parliamentary commission created in
December, the secret service engaged in the illegal interception
of communications. It found that a private security agency was
created by an active intelligence agent and raised questions
about Juncker’s role in securing an agency job for his driver, a
former policeman.  “The prime minister didn’t inform the parliament enough
and said nothing about the service being in chaos,” Xavier
Bettel, president of the opposition Democratic Party, said in
parliament on June 13. “You can’t say that it’s not your fault.
You have a political responsibility. There’s no more trust to be
had in the prime minister.”  Juncker challenged such assertions today and refused to
step down, arguing that the prime minister can’t be expected to
resign over the alleged misconduct of a few intelligence agents.  “I’ve told you what my mistakes were,” Juncker said. “I
showed you that when operations failed, I stopped them, and that
if something went wrong, I did everything possible to prevent it
happening again. For that reason I cannot accept personal
responsibility.”  Maastricht Signatory  A Luxembourg government minister since 1984 and prime
minister since 1995, Juncker has been a driving force on the
single currency. A signatory of the 1992 Maastricht Treaty that
created the European Union and led to the creation of the euro,
he served as an intermediary between Germany and  France  in
hammering out the deficit-limiting stability pact in 1996 and in
softening it in 2005.  Juncker spent his childhood in the south of the country,
where his father worked at a steel plant. His political life
began through his father’s union activities with the Luxembourg
Confederation of Christian Trade Unions.  In 1979, Juncker earned a law degree from the University of
Strasbourg. In 1982, a few days before his 28th birthday, he was
made state secretary for labor and social security. Two years
later he was elected to Luxembourg’s parliament. In 1989, he was
appointed finance minister and had a near-fatal car accident,
which left him in a coma for two weeks.  Today’s hearing is scheduled to run until about 10 p.m.,
according to the parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  