-- Lew Urges China to Move Decisively to More Market-Based Growth
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2013-07-10T13:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/lew-urges-china-to-move-decisively-to-more-market-based-growth.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
urged  China  to make good on pledges to open its economy to
competition and adopt more flexible exchange and interest rates,
as talks between the two nations started in Washington today.  “I will encourage China to follow through decisively on
the important commitments it has made to transition to a more
balanced and sustainable pattern of growth,” said Lew, who is
co-hosting the two-day U.S.-China Strategic and Economic
Dialogue with Secretary of State John Kerry. “This transition
will be critical to China’s success, and it will be
consequential to the world economy.”  China was scheduled to be represented by Vice Premier Wang Yang and State Councilor Yang Jiechi.  China has introduced initiatives to increase domestic
consumption, make growth more energy efficient and encourage
investment in poorer inland provinces after the economy more
than doubled in the past five years as the wealth divide
widened. It has also allowed its currency, the  yuan , to
appreciate in recent years as lawmakers in the U.S. complain
that restraints on its rise unfairly benefit Chinese exporters.  “These reforms recognize the imperative of shifting to
domestic consumption, greater private sector innovation, an
economy that is more open to competition with more flexible
prices -- including the exchange rate and interest rates, and a
more efficient financial system,” Lew said today.  While the U.S. priority is to grow its economy and create
middle-class jobs, China will need to undergo “significant and
fundamental shifts in policy,” to sustain growth in the future,
Lew said.  The U.S. economy is “poised for continued strong and
broad-based growth,” he said. “What matters is ensuring that
our economies are growing in a way that is balanced, beneficial
and mutually compatible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  