-- Ex-Citigroup Trader Raises Less Than $100 Million for Hedge Fund
-- B y   C h r i s   L a r s o n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-07-10T06:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/ex-citigroup-trader-raises-less-than-100-million-for-hedge-fund.html
Portman Square Capital LLP , founded
by ex- Citigroup Inc. (C)  proprietary-trading unit head Sutesh Sharma, opened with less than a fifth of the amount the hedge
fund originally sought, said two people with knowledge of the
matter.  The firm began trading in May with less than $100 million,
compared with the $500 million the firm initially targeted, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the figure
hasn’t been made public. The firm scaled back its target in
March, people with knowledge of the talks said at the time.
Sharma, 50, declined to comment by e-mail yesterday.  Portman Square uses capital structure arbitrage and
volatility arbitrage trading techniques, and seeks to profit
from pricing differences among related securities. The fund has
gained 3.6 percent since opening in May, another person with
knowledge of the pool said.  Hedge fund startups are struggling as  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis deters investors from backing fund managers without
a track record. Only 38 percent of 730 hedge fund investors
surveyed in March by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. committed money
last year to funds that were less than three months old.  The only European hedge fund to start trading last year
with more than $1 billion in assets was London- and Zug,
Switzerland-based  Stone Milliner Asset Management AG , according
to a March report from Bank of America Corp. The second-largest
European hedge fund to start trading in 2012 was Stockholm-based
 Brummer and Partners ’ Carve Capital, with $750 million in
assets, according to the report.  Sharma co-founded hedge-fund firm Old Lane Partners LP with
Vikram Pandit. When Citigroup bought Old Lane in 2007, Sharma
became head of a team of proprietary traders and Pandit later
was named chief executive officer. At New York-based Citigroup,
Sharma oversaw about $2 billion before resigning in late 2011.
Pandit left Citigroup in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Larson in London at 
 clarson22@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
   jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  