-- Tex-Mex Murder Spurs ‘Bridge’; ‘Black’ Is New ‘Cards’: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2013-07-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/tex-mex-murder-spurs-bridge-black-is-new-cards-tv.html
“ The Bridge ,” a dark, politically-minded murder mystery from FX set on the U.S.- Mexico  border,
features an icy heroine with gorgeous hair, a near-zero personal
life and a big dash of Asperger’s.  Top that,  Claire Danes .  Against the backdrop of Juarez’s real-life “femicides,”
“The Bridge” puts a grisly Southwestern spin on AMC’s Seattle-based “ The Killing .”  Similar in mood and rhythm, if not climate, both shows were
adapted from Danish series and feature mismatched investigators
tasked with finding a serial killer.  “The Bridge” unspools on a broader canvas, though, both
geographically and metaphorically: The central mystery involves
a corpse (two halves, actually, but never mind) dumped at the
midpoint of a bridge connecting Texas and Mexico.  El Paso police detective Sonya Cross ( Diane Kruger ,
“ Inglourious Basterds ”) is American, cerebral and, thanks in
part to her Aspergers, obsessively by-the-book.  To solve the crime, Cross is paired with Juarez detective
Marco Ruiz (Demian Bichir), who’s as intuitive and savvy as
Cross is brainy and socially inept. “Do you wanna have sex with
me?” is Cross’s idea of flirting.  Squeezing Justice  Kruger’s Cross is all jitters and darting eyes, compelling
but distancing. Bichir’s Marco is the more intriguing character,
an honest man squeezing whatever justice he can from a corrupt
system.  In addition to the detectives, the first episode introduces
a sketchy drifter (Thomas M. Wright) who might be the killer; a
wealthy Texas widow (Annabeth Gish) whose horse-breeding husband
had a secret or two locked away in a creepy cellar; and a boozy
muckraking reporter (Matthew Lillard) who starts receiving
ominous messages.  “Why is one dead white woman more important than so many
dead just across the bridge?,” his tormentor asks. “The
Bridge” asks the same, and does it well enough to keep us
waiting for an answer.  “The Bridge” airs Wednesday, July 10, on FX at 10 p.m.
 New York  time. Rating: ***1/2  ‘New Black’  “This isn’t ’Oz,’” a kindly prison worker tells a
frightened new arrival near the start of Netflix’s addictive
caged-women dramedy “ Orange is the New Black .”  The statement seems aimed at curious viewers as well.
Abandon hope of cheap titillation, all ye who enter.  With the same mix of near-whimsy and tough-mindedness she
brought to Showtime’s “ Weeds ,” creator Jenji Kohan has adapted
Yuppie author Piper Kerman’s true-life account of her 15-month
stint in a Connecticut prison.  Taylor Schilling plays author stand-in Piper Chapman, a
fine-boned, blonde daughter of privilege arrested 10 years after
an out-of-character walk on the wild side: During a post-collegiate lesbian fling, she transported a bag of drug money
for her dope-trafficking girlfriend Alex (Laura Prepon).  “Orange” begins as Piper says goodbye to her settled life
in gentrified  Manhattan  with supportive (if dumbfounded) fiance
Larry (Jason Biggs).  “I’m going to get, like, Jackie Warner ripped,” Piper
says with bright-side bravado.  But if the “Orange” jail is no fat camp, neither is it
the pit of violence and brutality Piper secretly fears. What she
finds is a population rigidly divided and defined by race, age
and sexuality, living (mostly) in wary peace.  In the six episodes available for review, the flashback-heavy “Orange” recounts not only Piper’s tale, but the gone-wrong lives of her cell-block cohorts.  Wild Girl  The large cast is terrific, notably Prepon (with jet-black
hair) and Natasha Lyonne as a wild-girl lesbian running from
addiction and a disapproving mom.  Best of all though -- and reason enough to opt for a 13-episode binge -- is Kate Mulgrew as Red, an unforgiving Russian
cook with purplish rooster hair and a strut to match.  “They’re so mean!” she wails, in a flashback about the
unwelcoming housewives of her mobbed-up New York neighborhood.  She learns their lessons well.  “Orange is the New Black” (all 13 episodes) will be
available Thursday, July 13, on Netflix. Rating: ****  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants and
Katya Kazakina on hot  art .  To contact the writer on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 