-- Mexico Peso Swings Rise as Investors Weigh Fed Stimulus, Reforms
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-07-10T22:50:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/mexico-local-currency-bonds-rally-on-reform-outlook-peso-drops.html
Mexico  peso volatility rose to a 17-month high as investors weighed concern the U.S. will pare
monetary stimulus against predictions that lawmakers will pass
legislation to bolster the Latin American country’s growth.  Three-month historical volatility, a measure of the
magnitude of the peso’s fluctuations during the period, rose to
13.2 percent at 4 p.m. in Mexico City, the highest since
February 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The peso
was little changed at 12.9008 per dollar after dropping as much
as 0.7 percent against the greenback.  The peso, which earlier fell on concern the U.S. may taper
stimulus, pared losses after minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s
June meeting showed that many policy makers want to see more
signs that employment is picking up before slowing the pace of
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases. The currency also
rebounded as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said separately that
the “overall thrust” of U.S. policy is highly accommodative.  “Today we’re more dominated by the Fed” than Mexico’s
reform agenda,  Mario Copca , a currency and fixed-income
strategist at Metanalisis SA, said in a telephone interview from
Mexico City.  Mexican benchmark bonds, which had been rallying this week
on speculation that the country’s rival political parties would
work together to pass legal changes to open the state-controlled
 energy industry  to more private investment this year, fell
today. Yields on benchmark peso bonds maturing in 2024 rose six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 5.89 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bernanke said June 19 that policy makers may start winding
down asset purchases known as quantitative easing, or QE, in
2013 and end the program by the middle of 2014. The peso has
dropped 5.9 percent since the end of April as speculation
mounted that the Fed would curtail stimulus.  The peso will rally 4 percent by the end of the year to
12.4 per dollar, according to the median forecast of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Peso Outlook  The peso ‘has a lot of upside,’’  Douglas Smith , the
director of emerging-marked fixed-income research at TIAA-CREF
Investment Management, said today at the Bloomberg Mexico
Conference in  New York .  Mexico’s currency is attractive for medium- and long-term
investors,  Gerardo Rodriguez , the managing director at BlackRock
Financial Management Inc., said at the conference.  President Enrique Pena Nieto who took office in December,
is seeking congressional backing to open Mexico’s state-controlled oil industry to more private investment and boost tax
collection, changes that he says may lift growth to 6 percent.
The International Monetary Fund yesterday reduced its Mexico
growth forecast for 2013 by 0.5 percentage point to 2.9 percent.
The country’s economy grew 3.9 percent last year.  Pena Nieto has said he’s confident lawmakers participating
in the so-called Pact for Mexico alliance will back reforms,
including an energy industry overhaul. The opposition  National
Action Party , or PAN, said this week it has almost completed its
own proposal.  “All the incentives are aligned for all parties to really
go into this Pact for Mexico and approve reforms,”  Gabriel Casillas , chief Mexico economist and head of research at Grupo
Financiero Banorte SAB, said at the conference in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  