-- Pemex Official Sees Monopoly End as JPMorgan Sees Reform
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-07-10T18:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/mexico-poised-to-end-state-energy-monopoly-pemex-official-says.html
Mexico  is on the cusp of opening its
 energy industry  to outside investment as a wide consensus has
developed that the constitution must be changed to end the
government’s monopoly on production, according to a board member
of state-controlled oil producer Petroleos Mexicanos.  The country needs “very deep” reforms to lure investment
to its natural gas and crude fields after eight years of
declining oil output, and proposed changes could be ready by the
end of summer, Hector Moreira, who also is a former official in
the country’s Energy Ministry, said today at the Bloomberg
Mexico Conference in  New York . A congressional bill to open the
oil monopoly would prompt as much as $50 billion in annual
investments if approved, he said.  Much-needed changes will open the way for faster growth and
a stronger currency in the region’s second-largest economy,  Gray Newman , Morgan Stanley’s chief Latin American economist, said at
the event. Officials from JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Grupo
Financiero Banorte said they’re optimistic President Enrique Pena Nieto will lead a successful effort at reforms this year.  “This administration doesn’t only have the willingness,
but the political power and political capital” to enact the
changes,  Gabriel Casillas , Banorte’s chief Mexico economist,
said. Casillas said he was “very bullish” on the peso, the
best-performing major currency against the dollar this year, and
that investors hadn’t yet priced in the reforms.  Economic Slowdown  A slowdown in economic expansion is putting pressure on
Pena Nieto to gain approval to open the energy industry and
change laws to boost tax collection, reforms he says may lift
growth to 6 percent.  “We need far more investment, we need capacity in
production and we need technology,” Moreira said. “We need to
transform the energy sector in a very deep way. I think now is
the time.”  The ruling  Institutional Revolutionary Party  has the
ability to pass the key bills, which will attract investment and
bolster Mexican markets, according to Eduardo Cepeda, the senior
country officer for JPMorgan in Mexico.  Mexico’s stock market may slump 10 percent if none of the
promised reforms are carrier out this year, Cepeda said. Still,
that could present a buying opportunity because the structural
changes will eventually get done, he said.  The IPC stock index has dropped 8.4 percent this year,
compared with declines of 25 percent for  Brazil ’s benchmark, 12
percent declines in  Chile  and a 15 percent fall in  Colombia .  Pena Nieto  Yields on Mexican  government bonds  due in 2024 have climbed
1.35 percentage points in the past two months through yesterday
to 5.83 percent as banks from JPMorgan to Barclays Plc cut
Mexican growth forecasts and prospects for reduced U.S. stimulus
sparked outflows from  emerging markets . Average yields on local-currency developing-nation debt rose 0.5 percentage point in
that span, according to Bank of America Corp.  Mexico’s peso has “a lot of upside,”  Douglas Smith ,
director of emerging-marked fixed income research at TIAA-CREF
Investment Management, said today at the conference. The peso is
at a good entry level for medium- and long-term investors, said
Gerardo Rodriguez, managing director at BlackRock Financial
Management Inc.  The peso weakened 0.4 percent to 12.9478 per dollar at 2:12
p.m. in New York, extending its drop this year to 0.6 percent.  Barclays predicts the economy will expand 2.5 percent this
year, the weakest pace since it shrank 6.2 percent in 2009 and
below the 2.9 percent forecast by analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. JPMorgan predicts GDP will climb 2.8 percent this year.
Mexico’s 1.7 percent annual growth in the past five years is
about half the rate in Brazil.  Reform Momentum  Pena Nieto said in an interview in  London  last month the
passage of education and telecommunications bills earlier this
year and the formation of an alliance between the country’s
leading political parties signals there’s momentum to adopt more
reforms.  He said his administration will send bills to overhaul
energy and tax policies to lawmakers when regular congressional
sessions resume in September. The 46-year-old former State of
Mexico governor said he’s confident the so-called Pact for
Mexico alliance between his ruling Institutional Revolutionary
Party, or PRI, the opposition  National Action Party , known as
the PAN, and Democratic Revolution Party, or PRD, will ensure
the energy bill is approved by Congress before year-end.  Mexico is seeking to attract capital for deep-water and
shale deposits found in the past decade as reserves dwindle in
Cantarell, the 1976 oil discovery that ranked among the world’s
largest. Mexican law prohibits Pemex, as  Petroleos Mexicanos  is
known, from profit-sharing agreements with other companies for
exploration, extraction and refining.  More Competition  “Pemex would benefit from competition,” Moreira said at
today’s conference. “There is nothing more efficient to make a
company more competitive than to have competition.”  Pemex, the source of funds for about a third of Mexico’s
 federal budget , was founded after Mexico expropriated assets
from U.K. and U.S. companies and changed its constitution to
assert control over its energy resources in 1938.  While Pena Nieto hasn’t said whether his energy law
proposal would require amending the constitution, Juan Molinar Horcasitas, a spokesman for the opposition PAN party, said July
8 the party is set to push for changes to the country’s charter.
Mexico City’s former mayor, Marcelo Ebrard, has said his
opposition PRD party should “strongly” oppose Pena Nieto’s oil
plan, which would have state-owned Pemex develop certain fields,
with others being tapped by foreign and private companies.  ‘Eve’ of Reform  Optimism over legal changes is helping push up growth
expectations for next year to 4 percent, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, with Mexico
forecast to expand more than Brazil for a fourth year. A pick-up
in the  U.S. economy  and passage of new laws will boost
investment in Mexico while falling commodity prices won’t hurt
the nation as much as Brazil, according to Citigroup Inc.  “We are on the eve of a narrative-changing constitutional
reform in energy,” Morgan Stanley’s Newman said today.  Mexico’s energy reform “has already started” and
international companies are preparing capital for potential
investment, Guido Cerini, managing director at Credit Suisse,
said today at the conference.  “When you go to Mexico, for the first time ever, you have
the feeling that something will happen,” Cerini said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  