-- DNA From Bone Bits May ID Train Dead Using 9/11 Methods
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   G e r r i t   d e   V y n c k
-- 2013-07-11T14:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/forensic-advances-since-9-11-may-identify-canadian-train-victims.html
Advances in forensic science since
the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks may help Canadian authorities
identify the remains of dozens of people killed in what may be
the country’s worst rail accident in more than 100 years.  Even tiny shards of bone may be helpful to scientists, said
Mark Desire, assistant director of the DNA World Trade Center
Identification Project in  New York , which is still working to
identify thousands of skeletal fragments. His agency tests each
piece multiple times and is devising new methods to access DNA
in the cells so it can return the remains to the families.  About 50 people are missing or were confirmed dead after a
 Montreal , Maine & Atlantic Railway Ltd. train carrying 72
carloads of crude oil barreled Saturday into  Lac-Megantic , about
250 kilometers (155 miles) east of Montreal. The crash at about
1 a.m. incinerated 30 buildings in town, including the Musi-Café
bar where the police say many patrons probably died.  “Fire, chemicals and even water destroy DNA,” Desire said
in a telephone interview. “For the thousands of remains that
yielded no DNA profile, the techniques of the day weren’t good
enough, so we’ve developed new techniques. With today’s
technology, if even small bits of bone survive, they may be able
to generate a DNA profile. You never know until you try.”  What used to be the heart of the small lakeside town now
looks like a post-apocalyptic wasteland. Buildings close to the
blast were decimated, while those further from the tracks have
some walls standing. Firefighters are still working to control
hot spots burning in the wreckage. None of the 20 bodies
discovered thus far were identifiable.  DNA Confidence  “We are confident that we are going to be able to get DNA
from the bodies that we recovered on the site,” said Genevieve
Guilbault, a spokeswoman for the Quebec coroner’s office, in a
telephone interview. “We are actually expecting to get some
identifications in the next few days.”  DNA  tests and dental records will be needed to identify the
victims because of the fire’s intensity, she said. Compiling an
accurate record of the missing is a critical step, since trying
to match relatives with a long and inconsistent list increases
the chance of false associations, said Bruce Budowle, director
of the institute of applied genetics at the  University of North
Texas Health Science Center in Fort Worth .  There have been improvements in every step of the process
in the dozen years since terrorists hijacked and crashed four
commercial airlines at three sites, damaging the Pentagon and
leveling the World Trade Center in 2001, forensic experts said.  DNA Extraction  There is better extraction of DNA from the remains, greater
sensitivity for detecting even small amounts of genetic material
and improved databases to manage and track the information, said
Howard Baum, director of the office of forensic science in  New
Jersey  and former deputy director of the forensic biology
laboratory in  New York City ’s  medical examiner’s office .  Extracting DNA from bone is one of the most difficult ways
to get genetic material, according to Desire. The method, once
done by hand, is now performed using a machine that uses
vibration to pulverize the bone sample into the finest powder
possible. Liquid nitrogen, detergents and decalcifying agents
are added to help gain access to the cells and the DNA inside.  “The more cells you break open, the more DNA you have to
work with,” he said. “You may have a large sample, but the DNA
may be all but destroyed. Here in New York, we are generating
DNA from very small bits of burned bone.”  Locating Remains  The Quebec coroner’s office is focusing on DNA as it works
to locate, catalog and compare the remains. The agency asked
families to bring in razors, toothbrushes and hairbrushes so it
can gather samples. Genetic samples from close relatives may be
needed to hone in on victims whose personal belongings may have
been burned by the fire, hampering a direct genetic comparison.  “The more challenging the sample, the more degraded, the
less likely you’ll get markers you can use for identification,”
said Budowle, the former top scientist at U.S.  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation who helped build the agency’s DNA laboratory.
“The technology over the years has improved quite substantially
to extract DNA, improve the quality and repair of the DNA and
identify other genetic markers.”  Scientists can now take damaged DNA, enhance small portions
that are still useful, and amplify those over the damaged parts,
Budowle said. Even if you improve the sample, it can still be
very dirty, contaminated with chemicals from the environment or
a fire, he said. There are now techniques that resist the
contaminants and allow technicians to extract DNA, he said.  Collecting Samples  Collecting the samples is the first hurdle, said Howard Cash, president of  Gene Code Forensics , an  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based bioinformatics company that specializes in DNA analysis.
His company devised the Mass Fatality Information System used to
identify 2,749 people who were killed in the Twin Towers on
Sept. 11, 2001. New York’s recovery efforts yielded 20,000
pieces of remains, which were compared to thousands more
reference samples from family members in a kinship analysis.  “After getting whatever DNA profile they can from the
remains, the next step is an information management problem,”
Cash said in a telephone interview. “The system can work with
very complicated family trees. The software has been developed
to do sophisticated analysis and determine the amount of
confidence you can have in the accuracy of the information.”  Accuracy is critical, and it takes time, the experts said.  “I know everyone is grieving, and the sooner you identify
everyone the sooner they get closure,” Baum said. “But you
have to do this right. If you rush to do it, that’s when
mistakes can happen. It’s better to do it a little slowly. The
consequences of doing it wrong are tremendous.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net 
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net 
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  