-- German Stocks Are Little Changed; Beiersdorf Shares Climb
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-07-10T07:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/german-stocks-are-little-changed-beiersdorf-shares-climb.html
German stocks  were little changed,
as Beiersdorf AG and Henkel AG shares rose, offsetting a report
that showed  China ’s exports and imports unexpectedly dropped.  Beiersdorf and Henkel advanced 2.8 percent and 2.6 percent,
respectively. Wacker Chemie AG climbed 2.4 percent after UBS AG
recommended buying the shares. K+S AG dropped 3.4 percent as UBS
advised investors to sell the potash maker’s stock.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  lost less than 0.1 percent to 8,054.64 at
9:51 a.m. in  Frankfurt . The gauge has  fallen 5.6 percent  since
May 22, when the  Federal Reserve  signaled that it may pare
stimulus if the  U.S. economy  strengthens in line with its
forecasts. The broader HDAX Index also declined less than 0.1
percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 20 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Asian stocks pared gains after a report from the General
Administration of Customs in Beijing showed that China’s exports
fell 3.1 percent in June from a year earlier. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey had called for a 3.7 percent
increase. Imports dropped 0.7 percent last month, compared with
the median projection of a 6 percent increase.  In the U.S., the Federal Reserve releases the minutes of
its June meeting at 2 p.m.  New York  time today. Speaking after
that meeting, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank may
reduce the pace of its $85 billion in monthly bond buying later
in 2013, and may halt purchases around mid-2014 if the U.S.
economy performs as the Fed forecasts.  Beiersdorf Upgraded  Beiersdorf jumped 2.8 percent to 70.45 euros, posting the
best performance on the DAX. Morgan Stanley upgraded the maker
of Nivea skin cream to overweight from equal weight.  “Visibility on growth increases our conviction that
Beiersdorf is set to become one of the strongest earnings-growth
stories in European staples,” Erik Sjogren, an analyst at
Morgan Stanley, wrote in a note to clients today.  Henkel gained 2.6 percent to 74.29 euros.  Deutsche Bank AG advanced 1.7 percent to 33.03 euros.
Credit Suisse Group AG raised  Germany ’s largest lender to
outperform from neutral, meaning investors should buy the
shares, saying it can cope with potentially stricter regulation
on leverage.  Wacker Chemie added 2.4 percent to 64.47 euros after UBS
raised the stock to buy from neutral. Germany’s economy ministry
said that China won’t introduce  import duties  on polysilicon
imported from the European Union. “This could increase Wacker’s
market share in China and could support Wacker’s polysilicon
prices short term,” according to UBS.  K+S Downgraded  K+S decreased 3.4 percent to 27.34 euros as UBS cut its
rating on the stock to sell from neutral, with analysts led by
Joe Dewhurst citing concerns about the company’s debt levels as
it increases capital expenditure even as potash prices are
unlikely to rise.  Gerresheimer AG declined 3.8 percent to 43.07 euros. The
producer of pharmaceutical and health-care equipment posted
second-quarter earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of 59.8 million euros ($76.6 million), compared
with the average analyst estimate of 60.3 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  