-- Ibovespa Futures Rise as Commodities Gain Boosts Export Outlook
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-07-10T12:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/ibovespa-futures-rise-as-commodities-gain-boosts-export-outlook.html
Ibovespa  futures  advanced, a sign
the equity index may snap a two-session drop, as commodities
from metals to oil rose, boosting the outlook for Brazilian raw-material producers.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA (USIM3)  may move after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised its recommendation on the steelmaker
to the equivalent of hold. Electricity distributor  Cia.
Paranaense de Energia  may be active after  Brazil ’s regulator
approved a rate adjustment.  Ibovespa futures contracts expiring in August added 0.5
percent to 45,000 at 9:16 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real fell 0.2
percent to 2.2635 per dollar. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index
of 24 raw materials advanced 0.6 percent. Commodities producers
account for about 37 percent of the Ibovespa’s  weighting .  Copper paced gains by industrial metals after data showed
imports of the commodity into  China  reached a nine-month high.
Crude climbed on speculation that shrinking U.S. stockpiles
indicate increased demand in the world’s biggest oil consumer.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge has slumped 26 percent this
year, the worst performer among the top 20 biggest equity
markets tracked by Bloomberg. The Ibovespa trades at 11.2 times
analysts’  earnings estimates  for the next four quarters,
compared with 9.8 for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of 21
developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 4.93 billion
reais on July 8, which compared with a daily average of 7.88
billion reais this year through July 4, according to data
 compiled  by the exchange. Brazilian markets were closed
yesterday for a holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  