-- Icahn Asks Dell Shareholders to Get Share Appraised
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-07-10T18:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/icahn-urges-dell-holders-to-seek-share-appraisal-as-vote-looms.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn , in
a bid to force Michael  Dell (DELL)  to sweeten his $24.4 billion buyout
offer for Dell Inc., urged shareholders to seek a higher price
for their shares in court.  Icahn, who holds an 8.7 percent stake in Dell, released an
open letter today saying he was preparing to exercise appraisal
rights that are available to shareholders of companies
incorporated in Delaware. The uncertainty caused by the
appraisal process may persuade Michael Dell and buyout partner
 Silver Lake  Management LLC to put forth a higher bid if enough
shareholders follow Icahn’s lead, he said.  Shareholders are set to vote on the Dell offer on July 18,
after an earlier effort by Icahn to block the deal in  Delaware 
court failed and the buyout received the backing of
Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. this week. Icahn has
proposed a stock buyback as an alternative to the founder’s
plan, which is opposed by about a fifth of Dell’s shareholders.  “This is kind of a last ditch effort to try to do
something” on the part of Icahn, said Steve Kaplan, a finance
professor who teaches private equity at the University of
Chicago’s Booth School of Business. “The banks didn’t give him
a lot of money” for the buyback proposal “and ISS and the
others said ‘Take the Dell offer’,” Kaplan said.  Fair Value  Dell stockholders who do not vote in favor of the deal next
week would be eligible to exercise appraisal rights that are
available under Section 262 of the General Corporation Law of
Delaware. They would be entitled to receive a cash payment
equaling the “judicially determined” fair value of their Dell
shares, a process that could leave them with more or less than
the $13.65 a share offered by  Michael Dell  and Silver Lake,
according to a May 31 proxy statement filed by Dell.  In many merger deals, the suitors include terms that permit
them to walk away from a buyout should a certain number of
stockholders seek appraisal rights, Icahn said in today’s
letter. Michael Dell and Silver Lake didn’t obtain this opt out
right, Icahn said, exposing them to the possibility of paying a
higher price should the Delaware Chancery Court determine that
Dell stock is worth more than $13.65 a share.  “We believe the $13.65 merger price substantially
undervalues your Dell shares, and we believe if you seek
appraisal, you will receive more,” Icahn said in the letter.  Meeting Canceled  Michael Dell and Silver Lake won’t sweeten their buyout
offer because it already represents a significant premium for
the company’s change of control, according to people with direct
knowledge of their thinking.  Icahn’s attempt to scuttle Dell’s buyout comes after he
canceled a meeting yesterday he was supposed to have with the
company’s special committee of the board today, according to
people familiar with the situation. The move is the latest twist
in the six-month tug of war over Dell.  Spokesmen for Silver Lake and Dell declined to comment. A
representative for Dell’s special committee of the board wasn’t
immediately reachable for comment.  Charles Elson , director of the John L. Weinberg Center for
 Corporate Governance  at the  University of Delaware , suggested
investors not read too much into Icahn’s latest maneuver.  “He’s just saying the price is inadequate,” Elson said in
a phone interview. Once shareholders petition for appraisal,
“these cases can go on for years. Most of them settle, and in
the end, a lot of times the court finds the merger consideration
is correct.”  Cogent Case  Appraisal results could go either way, Elson said. In one
recent case, Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons split
the difference between what shareholders of Cogent Inc. sought
for their stakes and what the company thought they were worth
after a 2010 merger with 3M Co. In a 64-page opinion issued July
8, Parsons ruled that the fair value of Cogent as of Dec. 1,
2010, was $963.4 million, or $10.87 per share, more than the
merger price of $10.50. Shareholders had argued that the company
was worth as much as $16.26 per share.  In addition to ISS, proxy advisory firms Glass Lewis & Co.
and Egan-Jones also recommended investors accept Michael Dell’s
offer. To succeed, the buyout needs approval from a majority of
investors excluding the founder, who has about a 16 percent
stake.  “Rejection of this transaction would expose Dell and its
shareholders to serious risks and uncertainties that will harm
the company’s business and erode  shareholder value ,” ISS said
in its July 8 report. “The alternative to accepting the buyout
offer is to continue holding equity in a publicly traded Dell,
with continued exposure to the risks and rewards of ownership,”
ISS said.  Pressing Dell  Icahn is pressing Dell to buy back about 1.1 billion shares
at $14 apiece, while leaving the remainder of the company
public. For his plan to succeed, he must convince shareholders
to reject Dell’s buyout and back his efforts to gain control of
the board in a proxy contest that will count Michael Dell’s
vote.  Last month, a Delaware Chancery Court declined a request by
Icahn and other investors to block the deal proposed by Michael
Dell, which they argued was the result of a flawed sales
process.  “I do not see any plausible, conceivable basis in which to
conclude that it is a colorable possibility that you could deem
the choices made by this board to be unreasonable with all the
different safeguards,” Judge Leo Strine said at a June 19
hearing.  If Michael Dell’s deal was mispriced, a higher buyout offer
would have emerged, Strine said, and Icahn’s alternative
proposal isn’t a full takeover.  Icahn’s letter raised the possibility that Michael Dell’s
lenders might seek to back out of their financing agreements
should a large number of stockholders seek appraisal rights. As
a result, there would be “significant pressure” on Michael
Dell and Silver Lake to seek a settlement during a 60-day period
that dissenting shareholders have to reverse their decision,
Icahn said in the letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  