-- ICAP Says First-Quarter Revenue Rises on Volatility
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-07-10T08:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/icap-says-first-quarter-revenue-rises-on-volatility.html
ICAP Plc (IAP) , the world’s largest broker
of transactions between banks, said revenue rose 2 percent in
the fiscal first quarter as the prospect of an end to U.S.
quantitative easing stoked volatility in  government bonds .  “The encouraging start to the financial year has continued
throughout the quarter, reflecting a number of positive
developments,” the London-based firm said in a statement today,
without giving specific numbers for the first quarter. Still,
“trading conditions remain challenging for a number of ICAP’s
businesses,” it said.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Spencer  is cutting expenses
to mitigate weak revenue growth that he attributes to a stalling
economy and  interest rates  at record lows. The company said
today that expectations for the full year remain unchanged,
without giving details. ICAP’s pretax profit before exceptional
items in the year through March fell 20 percent to 284 million
pounds ($423 million) from 354 million pounds a year earlier,
the company said in May.  The  shares  dropped 6.3 percent to 374.90 pence at 9:16 a.m.
in London trading. The  stock  has climbed about 22 percent this
year, for a market value of about 2.4 billion pounds.  Average daily volume on ICAP’s fixed-income trading
platform BrokerTec was $659 billion in the quarter, up 13
percent on the previous year, the firm said.  The debate over the future of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
policy of quantitative easing in the world’s largest economy had
a “significant positive impact” on Treasury volume in May and
June, prompting a 51 percent increase in average daily volume
compared with the previous year, ICAP said.  Interdealer brokers such as ICAP act as a go-between for
banks that trade bonds, stocks, currencies, energy and
derivatives. They profit when prices fluctuate because more
traders use the products they trade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  