-- Lifting Ad Ban Promises More Reach to Hedge-Fund Pitches
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-07-11T18:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/lifting-sec-ad-ban-promises-wider-airing-of-hedge-fund-pitches.html
Investment pitches by entrepreneurs
and hedge funds may get a higher public profile on television,
through social media and even at sporting events following the
lifting of an 80-year-old rule by U.S. securities regulators.  While yesterday’s vote by the Securities and Exchange
Commission to end a ban on advertising for private offerings
isn’t expected to spark an immediate deluge of mass-media
marketing, funds will feel pressure to promote investments as
competitors take advantage of the new freedom, according to
securities lawyers. Some may experiment with low-cost venues
such as social media while others may sponsor sporting events
that attract wealthy investors.  “It’s at the very top end, like Bridgewater, and D.E.
Shaw, and Blackstone, and also the funds with $50 million, the
guys who know they have to get bigger to survive,” said Jay Gould, head of the investment funds practice at Pillsbury
Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP. “Those are the two groups that are
most excited about the rule change.”  The SEC action was required under a law passed last year by
Congress, which agreed with arguments from technology
entrepreneurs and venture capitalists that the general
solicitation ban was written for a different era of investing.
Private offers have outgrown public sales of stock, raising $903
billion in 2012, according to the SEC.  ‘Balanced Approach’  Under the old rule, hedge-fund managers were inhibited from
talking about specific funds at seminars and to the media, out
of fear their remarks would be interpreted as advertising. Now
firms such as  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  that offer
hedge funds, private equity and other alternatives will benefit
because they already market to retail investors and can provide
information about more products.  “It’s a sensible and balanced approach. They’re not giving
up investor protections, but they’re looking at a more modern
view for general solicitation,” said Barbara Novick, vice
chairman at New York-based BlackRock, the world’s largest asset
manager. “To say that people can’t even put information out
there just doesn’t make sense in the modern world.”  The lifting of restrictions on media interviews, putting
information on websites and appearing at conferences will first
be used to help build brand awareness, Steven B. Nadel, a lawyer
at Seward & Kissel LLP in New York, predicted.  “They’ll take baby steps by first appearing on business
news networks and industry conferences, and we’ll probably see
fewer password-protected websites than we do now,” said Nadel,
whose clients include hedge funds. “We could even see funds do
things like sponsor polo events in the Hamptons.”  Accredited Investors  Under the rule, private funds and other companies are still
restricted to selling to “accredited investors,” or those
considered rich enough to withstand an adverse outcome. The law
defines accredited investors as having annual income of at least
$200,000 or a net worth of at least $1 million excluding their
primary residence.  The limit to sell only to accredited investors explains why
many hedge funds probably won’t respond by taking out print and
television ads seeking new clients, said David S. Guin, a
partner at Withers Bergman LLP whose clients include hedge
funds.  “You wouldn’t expect the type of person who is typically
sought as an investor to be investing off of an ad in a
newspaper or magazine,” Guin said.  The Hedge Fund Association said the new rules will increase
transparency, facilitate capital formation and enhance capital
markets.  ‘Generally Positive’  “Though the HFA views this development as generally
positive, we await publication of the new rules to determine
whether particular requirements impose an unnecessary burden on
our members,” the trade group said in a statement.  The hedge-fund business has been “uniquely
entrepreneurial, in part due to its lightly regulated and
private structure,” Charles Stucke, senior managing director of
asset manager Guggenheim Partners LLC, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Hopefully, the industry can maintain its
entrepreneurial spirit through these and other regulatory
changes which benefit larger firms. It may take smaller, niche
names, which often outperform due to their ability to be nimble,
longer to catch up.”  The freedom to advertise will take the muzzle off startups,
which are expected to respond by using websites and industry
conferences to announce their need for funding, said Alex
Mittal, founder and CEO of FundersClub Inc., which invests in
early-stage companies and operates an online fundraising
platform.  Filtering ‘Noise’  The SEC could help investors sort through the higher level
of “noise” by requiring companies to provide information that
will allow the regulator to better surveil the market for fraud,
Mittal said in a phone interview.  “If you think of a private company’s stock or a startup’s
stock as one of its products, it seems reasonable to think they
should be able to market that,” Mittal said. It also seems
reasonable that the SEC ought to ensure “the investors are
protected in this new landscape.”  Some investor advocates say advertising will lure small
investors into risky bets and complain the rule didn’t include
any protections. State securities regulators say private offers
were the most common product leading to enforcement actions in
2011.  Helping ‘Fraudsters’  “The record is clear that general solicitation will make
fraud easier by allowing fraudsters to cast a wider net for
victims,” said SEC Commissioner Luis A. Aguilar, who cast the
lone vote against the rule. “Experience tells us that this will
lead to economic disaster for many investors.”  An SEC advisory committee  recommended  in October that the
commission rewrite the proposal to include new requirements on
the use of advertising. Instead, the SEC lifted the advertising
ban and said it would pursue new rules through another
rulemaking process.  The SEC started that process by approving, on a 3-2 vote, a
proposal for new regulations that would allow better tracking of
private offers and how advertising is used. Two Republican
commissioners, Troy A. Paredes and Daniel M. Gallagher, voted
against the measure, saying it would weigh down the private
market with costly new rules.  SEC Chairman Mary Jo White said the agency recognizes the
worries about fraud and will monitor the market for more signs
of it. In the meantime, she said, the regulator was compelled to
move forward and lift the ban.  Act’s Mandate  “Given the explicit language of the JOBS Act as well as
the statutory deadline which passed last July, the commission
should act without any further delay,” White said. “This does
not mean, however, that the commission should not take steps to
pursue additional investor safeguards if and where such measures
become needed.”  Investor advocates such as the Consumer Federation of
America expressed skepticism about whether the proposal will
ever be adopted.  “This is a poor beginning to Chair White’s term as head of
the agency, and it sends a disturbing message about the
commission’s likely priorities under her leadership,” said
Barbara Roper, director of investor protection for the Consumer
Federation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  