-- IMF’s Blanchard Says He’s ‘Not at All Worried’ by U.S. Inflation
-- B y   A l e x a n d r i a   B a c a
-- 2013-07-10T17:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/imf-s-blanchard-says-he-s-not-at-all-worried-by-u-s-inflation.html
Olivier Blanchard , the International
Monetary Fund’s chief economist, said he isn’t worried about an
increase in U.S. inflation and those who fear a short-term jump
in prices are “plain wrong.”  Blanchard, in an interview today on the radio program
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene , said inflation can
rise because of an overheated economy or people’s expectations
of cost increases.  “Neither of the two conditions is satisfied in the U.S.
today,” Blanchard said. “So I’m not at all worried about
inflation.”  The Federal Reserve is currently considering reducing its
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases even with  unemployment  at
7.6 percent and the Fed’s preferred inflation index showing
prices rising 1 percent from a year earlier, below the central
bank’s 2 percent goal. Even so, Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  has been among those raising concerns that the U.S. may
face higher inflation in the future.  Lacker on May 15 cited “risks in the inflation outlook a
couple of years ahead.” Harvard University economist  Martin Feldstein , who chaired the White House Council of Economic
Advisers in  Ronald Reagan ’s administration, said on Aug. 30 that
more Fed monetary easing may lead to “inflationary pressures.”  Paul Volcker   Former Fed Chairman Paul Volcker, commenting on the central
bank’s current policies, said May 29 that “inflation, when
fairly and deliberately started, is hard to control and
reverse.”  Blanchard didn’t name anyone who has expressed concerns
about the possibility of a jump in prices.  “I think the people who fear inflation in the short run in
the U.S. are just plain wrong,” he said.  Fed policy makers are “doing the right thing” by waiting
until the economy gets better before scaling back stimulus
measures, Blanchard said.  “The Fed basically has a very simple strategy, which is
that as the  U.S. economy  is recovering, is becoming stronger, it
makes sense to tighten money,” said Blanchard. “The Fed knows
what it’s doing.”  Federal Reserve  policy makers in June projected U.S. growth
of 2.3 percent to 2.6 percent in 2013 and 3 percent to 3.5
percent next year.  Blanchard warned against reading too much into the latest
changes to the IMF economic forecasts, announced yesterday. The
IMF slashed its growth estimates, saying world economic growths
will struggle to accelerate this year as the U.S. expansion
weakens,  China ’s economy levels off and Europe’s recession
deepens.  Global growth will be 3.1 percent this year, trimmed from
3.3 percent forecast in April, the Washington-based fund said,
trimming its prediction for this year a fifth consecutive time.
The IMF reduced its 2013 prediction for the U.S. to 1.7 percent
growth from 1.9 percent in April, while next year’s outlook was
cut to 2.7 percent from 3 percent.  ‘Emerging Markets’  “The significant part is really the decrease in the growth
of emerging market countries but, no, this is not a recession,”
Blanchard said. “Emerging market countries are still doing
fine, the U.S. is recovering.  Europe  is more of an issue;
recovery is really long in coming.”  Fiscal consolidation in the short run in the U.S. is “too
strong,” Blanchard said.  Asked about  France  specifically, Blanchard said the country
is slowly losing its competitiveness, and its lack of confidence
in the future is worrisome.  “These things are very much self-fulfilling. When people
or firms believe that the future is gloomy, they don’t spend,
they don’t invest, demand is weak, output is weak and it
confirms the beliefs of the people,” Blanchard said. “The
prescription is, you know, indicate that there is a path out,
have clear policies, decrease policy uncertainty, take a number
of measures and growth will come back.”  Blanchard, 64, has served as chief economist at the IMF
since 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexandria Baca in Washington at 
 Abaca3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  