-- India Asks State Banks to Complete Plans for Capital Buffers
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h
-- 2013-07-10T06:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/india-state-run-banks-asked-to-submit-plans-to-raise-25-billion.html
India ’s state-run banks must decide
this month on ways to raise more than 1.5 trillion rupees ($25
billion) by March 2018 to bolster risk buffers and meet Basel
III capital standards.  “Banks have to look at options other than capital infusion
by the government to meet the new Basel rules,” Rajiv Takru,
banking secretary at India’s  Finance Ministry , said in an
interview yesterday in  New Delhi .  The government will need to  infuse  as much as 910 billion
rupees into its majority-owned banks to help them comply with
Basel III requirements, and to maintain the state holding,
Reserve  Bank of India (BOI)  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said in October.
Bank  lending  in India grew 14 percent in the year to June 14,
the slowest pace in at least three years, data compiled by the
RBI show, as the cooling economy curtailed credit demand.  “Proactive measures by the government to raise  capital
ratios  will boost the performance of banks,” Vishal Narnolia, a
Mumbai-based banking analyst at SMC Global Securities Ltd., said
by phone. “The fundraising plans will help lenders withstand
asset-quality pressures, which will remain a concern until
economic growth picks up.”  Economic Slowdown  India’s economy   expanded  5 percent in the year ended March
31, the slowest pace since 2003, and less than the 10-year
average of about 8 percent, government data show.  Bad loans at the country’s lenders reached 3.7 percent of
total lending at the end of last year, the highest in at least
five years, and eased to 3.4 percent at the end of March,
according to  data  compiled by the RBI.  The central bank last month said the combined soured debt
ratio for India’s banks may rise to 3.8 percent by September.  India plans to inject as much as 140 billion rupees into
state-run banks including  IDBI Bank Ltd. (IDBI) ,  Dena Bank (DBNK)  and  Bank of
Maharashtra (BOMH)  by September to keep the so-called Tier 1 capital
ratio above 8 percent, Takru, 57, said yesterday. State-run
banks account for three-fourths of the nation’s lending.  “The government, as the largest shareholder, will step in
to boost capital ratios whenever required,” he said.  The S&P BSE Bankex Index rose 0.4 percent at 11:59 a.m. in
Mumbai.  State Bank of India , the nation’s largest, gained 0.9
percent to 1,912 rupees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Siddhartha Singh in New Delhi at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  