-- India’s First Wind Auction Stalled by Mytrah Court Case
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-07-10T09:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/india-s-first-wind-auction-stalled-by-mytrah-court-case.html
India’s first auction of wind-farm
licenses stalled after an industry lobby and a developer backed
by Henderson Global Investors Ltd. filed injunctions, saying it
would accelerate a 47 percent plunge in turbine installations.  Rajasthan state, India’s biggest market for new wind farms
last year, withdrew a tender for as much as 1,200 megawatts over
three years after the Indian Wind Energy Association and  Mytrah
Energy Ltd. (MYT)  filed petitions, B.K. Makhija, Rajasthan Renewable
Energy Corp.’s technical director, said in a phone interview.  Mytrah Chairman Ravi Kailas declined to comment in an e-mailed reply to questions. The lobby’s Chairman V. Subramaniam
declined to elaborate beyond confirming its court filing.  Asia ’s second-biggest wind market plans auctions after the
rates paid to solar producers fell 39 percent since 2010 with
the introduction of bidding. Lobbies representing developers and
turbine suppliers such as  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  and  Gamesa Corp
Tecnologica SA (GAM)  say auctions would further depress a market that
has slumped by half since two state incentives ended last year.  The auctions won’t lead to the reductions in charges seen
in the solar industry because project costs in India of about 65
million rupees ($1 million) a megawatt are already among the
lowest in the world, according to Mahesh Makhija, director of
renewables at CLP India Pvt., India’s largest wind developer.  Generation costs in India’s two-decade-old wind industry
are established, making it harder to boost efficiency than for
solar,  Tata Power Co. (TPWR)  head of renewables Rahul Shah said in May.  Maximum Tariff  Rajasthan and Maharashtra, making up 53 percent of the 1.7
gigawatt of wind capacity India installed last year, planned to
set a maximum tariff and award licenses to developers offering
the biggest discount. Maharashtra’s state distributor, a buyer
of power from wind farms, submitted a  petition  to the regulator
in May seeking competitive bidding in the year starting April.  Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Co. argued the
industry was approaching maturity after installing more than 17
gigawatts and was ready for competitive bidding. India’s 2003
Electricity Act had also envisioned introducing auctions into
the renewable-energy industry, the distributor said.  Currently, wind power is mostly sold at fixed rates set by
state regulators based on discussions with producers and buyers.  The cases are Mytrah Energy ( India ) Ltd. v. State & Ors.,
CMS 14130/2103, and Indian Wind Energy Asso. v. Raj. Renewable
Energy Corp. Ltd. & Ors., CMS 14160/2013, Rajasthan High Court
in Jodhpur.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  