-- India’s Court Says Convicted Lawmakers to Be Barred From Office
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-07-10T11:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/india-s-court-says-convicted-lawmakers-to-be-barred-from-office.html
Indian lawmakers convicted of crimes
will be barred from office the moment they are found guilty, the
country’s top court ruled in a bid to curb the growing
criminality of politics in the world’s largest democracy.  The  Supreme Court  said that the order won’t apply to
lawmakers who made appeals before today, the  Press Trust of
India  reported. The ruling may close a loophole where lawmakers
could file repeated appeals against their convictions, allowing
them to stay in power by taking advantage of India’s slow-moving
justice system.  The number of lawmakers charged with offenses has more than
doubled in the last fifteen years. About a  quarter  of federal
and state legislators face charges that include murder, rape and
kidnapping, according to the Association for Democratic Reforms,
which has campaigned for better governance since 1999.  Politicians on trial, or those with convictions if they
have an appeal pending, are free to run for office in  India . The
average criminal case in India lasts about 15 years, according
to the Ministry of Law and Justice.  Mukhtar Ansari, a lawmaker in the  Uttar Pradesh  state
assembly, has been elected three times from prison where he is
awaiting trial for ordering a rival’s murder by hitmen who
pumped 400 bullets into the victim’s car.  Raghuraj Pratap Singh, also known as Raja Bhaiya, was the
food minister in Uttar Pradesh until March even though he had
cases pending against him for attempted murder, kidnapping and
armed robbery. He resigned after he was accused of being
involved in the murder of a local policeman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  