-- Indonesia Plans Policies to Quell Property Costs, Add Dollars
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   N e i l   C h a t t e r j e e
-- 2013-07-10T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/indonesia-plans-policies-to-quell-property-costs-add-dollars.html
Indonesia , Asia’s first major
economy to raise interest rates this year, said it plans to
quell rising property prices and address a shortage of dollars,
as it seeks to cool inflation and support a weakening rupiah.  Bank Indonesia sees inflation reaching the upper end of its
estimated 7.2 percent-to-7.8 percent range for 2013, and will
respond if price gains approach such levels, Governor  Agus Martowardojo  told reporters in Jakarta yesterday. The central
bank holds its monthly policy meeting today.  Bank Indonesia unexpectedly raised its key rate for the
first time since 2011 at its June meeting ahead of an increase
in subsidized fuel prices. The central bank is forecast to boost
the reference rate today, with 13 of 19 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News  predicting  a quarter of a percentage point
increase to 6.25 percent, three expecting a half-point move and
the rest no change.  “We’ll formulate a policy mix as we see that the impact of
the fuel price is more than we were expecting,” Martowardojo
said, when asked about today’s meeting. “We can respond with a
property rule and we’ll add forex supply in the market.”  The rupiah was little changed at 9,965 per dollar
yesterday, prices compiled by Bloomberg from local banks show.
It has fallen more than 5 percent in the past 12 months, the
worst performer after the yen and the Indian rupee among 11
Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Bank Indonesia will keep the rupiah from weakening beyond
10,000 per dollar, Andy Ji, a Singapore-based currency
strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , said in an
interview this month.  Indonesia’s  inflation  quickened to 5.9 percent in June from
a year earlier, ahead of the start of the Ramadan festive
season, when prices typically rise because of higher spending on
food and travel. Food prices rose 10.7 percent while housing
costs climbed 4.55 percent in the same period, the statistics
bureau said July 1.  Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor Perry Warjiyo said in May
the central bank is studying whether to impose stricter loan-to-value rules for mortgages in regions where property demand is
expanding too quickly.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Chatterjee in Singapore at 
 nchatterjee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  