-- Infosys May Cut Forecast on U.S. Visa Proposals: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-07-11T10:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/infosys-may-cut-forecast-on-u-s-visa-proposals-corporate-india.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO) ,  India ’s second-largest
software exporter, may cut its annual sales forecast as concern
that proposed U.S. immigration legislation could impose visa
restrictions prompts clients to delay outsourcing contracts.  Infosys is expected to  forecast  sales in dollar terms will
increase as much as 7.5 percent in the 12 months ending March
31, from its earlier projection for as much as 10 percent
growth, according to the median of 10 analysts in a Bloomberg
News survey. The Bangalore-based company will report first-quarter earnings tomorrow.  Billionaire co-founder N.R. Narayana Murthy, who returned
as executive chairman last month to help revive growth, said
June 15 that sales recovery may be painful and take at least 36
months. The U.S.  bill , if approved without revision, would make
it harder for outsourcing companies to use temporary worker
visas and will be “damaging to the offshore business model,”
according to Bloomberg Industries analyst Anurag Rana.  “Fiscal 2014 won’t be a great year for Infosys, with
client sentiment toward the industry dimming,” said Urmil Shah,
a Mumbai-based analyst at Kim Eng Securities Pvt. “The
immigration bill is compounding problems and is really the
biggest fear across the industry, but especially for Infosys
which is already being surpassed by the competition.”  ‘Just Shuts’  Among the various changes in the proposed immigration law
that has been passed by the Senate is a measure to restrict
companies with a U.S.-based staff comprised of visa holders in
excess of 15 percent from placing those employees at domestic
client locations. This rule “really just shuts you off from the
entire business,” Infosys’s Chief Financial Officer Rajiv Bansal said at the Sanford C. Bernstein Strategic Decisions
Conference on May 31.  Infosys gets the bulk of its sales from U.S. companies,
with North American customers having accounted for 62.2 percent
of  revenue  in the year ended March. Work done onsite at client
locations worldwide accounted for 51 percent of revenue in the
last fiscal year, with the remaining 49 percent delivered from
offshore, according to  data  on the company’s website.  Shares of Infosys plunged the most in 10 years in Mumbai
trading on April 12 after the company forecast full-year sales
growth as slow as half the pace analysts estimated. The  stock 
rose 1.1 percent to 2,528.35 rupees at the close in Mumbai
trading, paring its drop since the software provider’s revenue
projection missed analysts’ estimates to 13 percent.  Tata Consultancy  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , India’s largest software
exporter, is projected to post full-year revenue growth of 16
percent, the average of 64  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Infosys’s April forecast of 6 percent to 10 percent increase in
annual sales already lags behind the 10 percent to 14 percent
growth estimate for Indian software exports given by the
industry group Nasscom.  The global economic slowdown has taken its toll on India’s
largest software services companies, with third-ranked  Wipro
Ltd. (WPRO)  and Infosys being the slowest to emerge after 2008, said
Harit Shah, analyst with Nirmal Bang Equities Ltd. Revenue
growth over the last four fiscal years averaged 10 percent at
Wipro, and 17 percent at Infosys, lagging behind Tata
Consultancy’s 23 percent and  HCL Technologies Ltd. (HCLT) ’s 29 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rupee Slide  While the rupee has slid to a record low, increasing the
value of sales made outside India, Infosys and Tata Consultancy
are passing on the currency benefit to clients as they compete
for orders.  The rupee traded at 59.765 per dollar as of 4:16 p.m. and
has lost about 8 percent this year, according to prices from
local banks compiled by Bloomberg.  The projected 7.5 percent sales growth for the current 12
months will be Infosys’s slowest in four years and the lowest
among the four competitors, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Infosys has been forced to shed its premium pricing in
order to compete for global contracts, Kim Eng’s Shah said. This
resulted in narrower operating  margins , which could reach as low
as  23 percent  in the quarter ended June, he said.  ‘Aggressive’ Pricing  “We are very focused on growth and that is the reason we
actually did not give our margin guidance for” the full-year,
Infosys’s Bansal said at the conference in May. “So I think
short term, focus on growth, even if it means probably going
more aggressive on the pricing.”  Infosys will refocus on winning large outsourcing deals and
adopt flexible pricing, Murthy told shareholders June 15. The
software maker, which aims to narrow Tata Consultancy’s lead,
last month announced salary increases of an average 8 percent
for  employees  based in India from July 1 and a similar 8 percent
average raise for its global sales force effective May 1.  “There is a clear focus on addressing internal issues”
following the return of Murthy, Sandip Agarwal, Omkar Hadkar and
Deepansu Jain, analysts at Mumbai-based Edelweiss Securities
Ltd., wrote in a June 13 note to investors. “This announcement
will have a positive impact on employee morale.”  Infosys’s push to tap demand from U.S. President  Barack
Obama ’s drive to overhaul the nation’s health-care system also
helped it win at least one order in the last quarter. The
software company’s public services unit last month won a one-year $49.5 million contract from the  District of Columbia  to
develop a health benefit exchange.  Low Expectations  The software exporter is projected to report net income in
the three months ended June increased 1.3 percent to 23.2
billion rupees ($388 million), according to the median of 34
analysts estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales in the quarter
climbed 14 percent to 109.9 billion rupees, analysts estimated.  “Expectations are low for Infosys, because Murthy has
basically told us not to expect a good result for six or seven
quarters,” said Amar Mourya, an analyst with India Nivesh
Securities in Mumbai. “Murthy at the helm is providing a bit of
comfort, so we’re not expecting any significant carnage going
forward. Investors with long-term patience will be rewarded when
the company recovers,” said Mourya, who recommends investors
hold the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  