-- Lira Weakens First Day in 3 as Fitch Warns Turkey Rating at Risk
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-07-10T10:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/lira-weakens-first-day-in-3-as-fitch-warns-turkey-rating-at-risk.html
The Turkish lira declined for the
first time in three days and bond risk jumped the most in two
weeks after  Fitch Ratings  said a lengthy period of social unrest
could put the nation’s investment-grade status at risk.  The lira slid 0.4 percent to 1.9497 per dollar at 12:17
p.m. in Istanbul, after gaining as much as 0.3 percent. The
costs to protect against default on Turkish debt climbed 17
basis points, or 0.17 percentage point, to 220. The yield on
two-year notes rose 29 basis points to 8.89 percent.  Fitch, which raised  Turkey  to investment grade in November,
said “prolonged social unrest, poorly handled, could deter
tourism, exacerbate short-term capital outflows, drive-up
inflation and damage economic growth, potentially putting
Turkey’s sovereign rating at risk.” Yields rose as investors
weighed prospects for scaling back U.S. stimulus before the
 Federal Reserve  releases minutes of its June meeting today.  The Fitch statement “is making an impact” on the market,
Burcin Metin, head of  currency trading  at ING Bank AS, wrote in
e-mailed comments. “Emerging market positions are getting
closed” before the release of Fed minutes, he said.  The two-year yield has climbed 208 basis points since the
Fed’s last meeting ended on June 19, after which Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said policy makers may taper their $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases this year should risks to the  U.S.
economy  abate. Minutes of the last meeting will be released at 2
p.m. Washington time. Bernanke is scheduled to speak later on
economic policy at a conference in  Boston .  “Investors do not want to take risks before seeing the Fed
minutes this evening,” Tufan Comert, a strategist at Garanti
Securities in Istanbul, wrote in e-mailed comments.  Turkey’s central bank sold $50 million for liras today and
refrained from lending at its lowest lending rate of 4.5 percent
for a third day. The central bank has auctioned $4.95 billion
for liras since June 11 to support the currency, which reached a
record low of 1.9740 per dollar on July 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  