-- Israeli Military Calls on Rabbis to Condemn Attacks on Soldiers
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-07-10T12:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/israeli-military-calls-on-rabbis-to-condemn-attacks-on-soldiers.html
Israel’s military called on the
heads of the ultra-Orthodox community today to denounce recent
attacks against ultra-Orthodox soldiers.  The call comes a day after about 50 ultra-Orthodox men in
 Jerusalem ’s Mea Shearim neighborhood mobbed an ultra-Orthodox
soldier, who fled into a nearby building. Police who were called
to the scene to rescue the soldier were attacked with rocks, and
four men were arrested, police spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld  said by
telephone today. The soldier wasn’t hurt.  “The primary responsibility falls on the rabbis who head
the ultra-Orthodox community,” military spokesman Brigadier-General Yoav Mordechai said in an interview broadcast on  Army
Radio . “I urge them to condemn this phenomenon.”  Earlier this week, the cabinet approved a bill making
military or community service mandatory for most ultra-Orthodox
Israelis, reversing an exemption policy in force since the
beginning of the state. Ultra-Orthodox parties oppose the bill.
which they say will destroy their way of life.  The exemptions initially applied to several hundred top
rabbinical students who were allowed to study, rather than
serve. Today, about 60,000 ultra-Orthodox men pursue religious
studies instead of military service. Other Jewish men are
drafted for a compulsory three years and women serve two years.  The privileges irk  Israel ’s secular and modern Orthodox
majority. The new government, which took office in March, does
not include ultra-Orthodox parties for the first time in a
decade and has pledged to change the military draft law to
restore greater parity.  Economy Minister Naftali Bennett warned against blaming the
entire ultra-Orthodox community for the attack, and said it was
carried out by extremists.  “This generalization is dangerous,” said Bennett, head of
the Jewish Home party, whose modern Orthodox voter base serves
in the military.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  