-- Japanese Stock Futures Rise as Bernanke Signals Policy to Remain
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-07-10T23:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/japanese-stock-futures-rise-as-bernanke-signals-policy-to-remain.html
Japanese  stock futures  rose after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. needs
stimulative monetary policy for the foreseeable future to buoy
the economic recovery.  Shares of Asahi Glass Co. might move as the Nikkei
newspaper reported the company may report a 30 percent drop in
operating profit.  Olympus Corp. (7733) , the world’s biggest maker of
endoscopes, may rise as Deutsche Bank AG advised buying the
shares. Shares of Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. may
move as its group treasurer said the Australian dollar’s 15
percent decline added about A$7 billion ($6.4 billion) to its
balance sheet.  Futures on  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
September rose 0.5 percent to 14,400 in  Chicago  as of 8:14 a.m.
Tokyo time. They were bid in the pre-market at 14,390 in Osaka.
Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  gained 0.8 percent.
Contracts on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 0.1 percent
and futures on Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index slid less than 0.1
percent. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index was little changed.  “The Fed’s saying tapering won’t happen yet,” Matthew Sherwood, head of investment market research at Perpetual Ltd.,
which oversees $25 billion in Sydney, said by telephone.
“Equities will still be outperforming for now. Valuations
aren’t particularly stretched and earnings so far have been
reasonably good. We’re continuing to add to positions where we
see opportunities.”  Bernanke, who sparked a stock and bond rout in May after
signaling the Fed’s asset buying program could be tapered,
yesterday said “highly accommodative” monetary policy will be
needed for the “foreseeable future” after a speech in
Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Fed Minutes  Minutes of the Fed’s June meeting showed that while
“several members judged that a reduction in asset purchases
would likely soon be warranted,” many want to see further
improvement in the labor market before reducing its $85 billion-a-month quantitative easing program.  The MSCI Asia Pacific index fell 8.2 percent through
yesterday from a five-year high on May 20 amid concern the Fed
will begin tapering stimulus as  China’s economy  slows and Japan
puts off unveiling economic reform policies until after upper
house elections later this month.  That left the gauge trading at 13 times average estimated
earnings compared with 15 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and 13.1 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bank of Japan’s board will decide on policy and update
its economic forecasts today. Thirteen of 20 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey completed July 8 saw no extra BOJ
loosening in the next six months amid signs the recovering
economy may spur inflation. That was a reversal from a poll in
May.  Futures contracts on the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index
of mainland Chinese companies trading in  Hong Kong  retreated 0.1
percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. rose 0.2 percent in  New York 
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  