-- Jean-Georges Misfires With Cocina’s Slider Tacos: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2013-07-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/jean-georges-misfires-with-cocina-s-slider-tacos-review.html
ABC Cocina, with its $12 burger
tacos, makes me wonder how much stoner talk preceded the opening
of this curious effort from the Jean-Georges Vongerichten global
restaurant empire.  Tucked inside  ABC Carpet & Home  in  Manhattan ’s Flatiron
District, Cocina makes a few contributions to the uneasy world
of Frankenfoods that includes the hugely popular cronuts and
 Doritos Locos , Taco Bell’s Tex-Mex-junk food hybrid.  If only ABC’s “slider tacos” were as well thought out.  Chef Dan Kluger takes an underseasoned mound of Akaushi
beef, places it into a corn tortilla and tops it with
McDonald’s-style special sauce.  The result: A terrible taco and burger in one heavy, mushy
disaster.  Diners should expect more from Vongerichten, one of the
original gangstas of fusion, merging high-end French and Asian
sensibilities that won him three Michelin stars at his flagship
off Columbus Circle.  We also expect more from Kluger, whose work at ABC Kitchen
next door has earned him a reputation as one of our most
innovative vegetable chefs.  Mismatched Chandeliers  For now,  ABC Cocina  is a hit-or-miss affair, a small-plates spot that’s mostly Spanish, occasionally Mexican and
sometimes American, all set in a sort-of-exclusive-looking
environment of gorgeously mismatched chandeliers.  Most of its seats are booked 31-days in advance.  Some will wonder whether it’s worth thinking about $12
chicken tacos a month out. It’s dry and bland, and whatever meat
Kluger uses has about as much flavor as day-old cutlets from the
corner deli.  Italian-Americans use marinara sauce to cut the oil of
fried calamari. Kluger instead tops his crispy but undersalted
squid with ancho chili glaze. The cloying result is a mouthful
of sugar in each bite.  No table? No problem. Your walk-in party might be
sandwiched between the communal area and the bar, a
preposterously narrow space where share plates might remain for
virtually an entire meal. Outside tables are also available.  My pina colada was served in a martini glass, not blended
or poured over crushed ice, which means there’s nothing to thin
out the milky drink and keep it cold. Cost: $15.  Bland Sangria  And while comparatively priced libations are increasingly
the norm, there’s something disingenuous about charging $14 for
average sangria.  Better is the $14 albarino, which, like other wines here,
is poured out of sight, no tasting offered. Pair the vino with
pea guacamole ($11), packing gentle heat, sharp onions and
bright cilantro, and things become quite pleasant.  Then you order the one-note hot garlic shrimp ($13), and
the cold white shrimp in “agua diablo,” ($12) a preparation
that gives the crustaceans the flavor and texture of Styrofoam.  Seared tuna with habanero, paprika and orange zest is more
middling than those accouterments promise.  Things improve with snap-pea soup, a verdant hot puree with
a bit of creme fraiche to keep the vegetal sugars in check.
Heirloom tomatoes sparkle with vinegar and collapse in the mouth
like Jell-O.  And raw fluke with green chili dressing exemplifies Jean-George’s precise balance of intense acid, wicked heat and
powerful herbs.  Short rib tacos sport a rich, nutty glaze and a dollop of
habanero salsa that could pass muster at any good street stand.
Pulled-pork tacos show Kluger’s A-game too, a soft mount of
musky pig tempered with pickled red onions.  86 Frankenfood  Then there are BLT tacos, with cherry tomatoes over cubes
of pork so overcooked they were pitch black, as if they’d been
dropped over charcoal and forgotten about. No more Frankenfood,
okay, Kluger?  Beef tenderloin “burnt ends” ($18) soak up what could be
the city’s best chimichurri, bursting with the clean aromas of
garlic and cilantro. And arroz con pollo ($19), despite over-salting, is more memorable than this mainstay usually is.  Finish with flan (or don’t -- it’s no great shakes). With a
spate of excellent Spanish cooking at venues like Tertulia and
 La Vara , as well as fine modern Mexican at Empellon, the Jean-Georges mashup of both cuisines is mostly a skip.  Rating: *  The Bloomberg Questions:  Price: Most small plates under $20  Sound Level: Loud, anywhere from 70-75 decibels.  Date Place: Not at the communal table.  Inside Tip: Excellent slow-cooked halibut and onion-carrot
stew.  Special Feature: Paprika-dusted chickpeas are tasty
freebies.  Back on my own dime? No.  ABC Cocina is at 38 East 19th. Information: +1-212-677-2233
or  http://www.abccocinanyc.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Eat, don’t talk.  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own. Follow him on Tumblr at
www.thepricehike.com or www.thebaddeal.com.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on TV and Katya Kazakina
on hot  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 