-- Jerry Brown’s George Wallace Moment on Prisons
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2013-07-10T22:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/jerry-brown-s-george-wallace-moment-on-prisons.html
The fight between many states and
the federal government over carrying out the health-care law
figured to be the most significant states’ rights blowup of the
decade. Yet the most colorful  battle  of this sort may be taking
place in California over prison overcrowding.  Jerry Brown , the quirky progressive governor, is defying
the orders of three liberal federal judges to release thousands
of criminals from the state’s prison system in order to relieve
chronic overcrowding. The rhetoric is growing more heated as the
state defies a special judicial panel that last week  rejected
the governor’s attempt  to delay the releases and used harsh
language in doing so: “Despite our repeated efforts to assist
defendants to comply with our Population Reduction Order, they
have consistently engaged in conduct designed to frustrate those
efforts.”  In picking up the states’ rights banner, Brown finds
himself being compared to  Alabama ’s segregationist governor,
George Wallace, who in 1963 defied a federal order to
desegregate the state’s schools. But some see Brown as a hero.  In  California , the federal government might order marshals
to open the cell doors and Brown could stand in a cell, argued
Los Angeles Times columnist George Skelton. “Wallace was
shamefully standing in the schoolhouse door trying to protect a
university’s bigotry from integration by black students,”
Skelton wrote. “Brown would be heroically protecting citizens
from thugs.”  Aggressive Resistance  The governor isn’t just resisting the justices. He is
poking his finger in their eye after a series of federal court
rulings -- including one from the U.S. Supreme Court in 2011 --
that require the state to reduce its prison population. The
Brown administration  responded  with a “realignment” program,
which sent thousands of inmates to county jails as a way to save
money and comply with the federal orders.  Like it or not, realignment was a defensible policy. But
the administration didn’t stop there. It launched what Jonathan
Simon, a law professor at the  University of California ,
Berkeley,  labeled  “an offensive against the courts with the self
proclaimed objective of re-establishing ‘full state control’
over the prison system.”  As Simon noted on the Berkeley Blog, the administration
claimed that realignment had worked and  used  an aggressive legal
and public-relations strategy designed to thwart further prison-population reductions. In April, the court rejected California’s
attempt to have the court vacate its 2009 reduction order. It
also slapped down Brown and the state government for failing to
act in good faith.  In response to the court, the Democratic governor sent the
Democratic-controlled Legislature a package of court-ordered
plans, as required. But the legislators have no more interest
than Brown does in releasing criminals onto the streets -- the
one move in this liberal state that might move voters in a more
Republican direction. The Brown administration has “a plan they
are presenting to the Legislature that they are, let’s just say,
ambivalent or neutral on whether we pass it or not,” Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg said.  As was clear from the federal panel’s refusal last week to
grant a stay of its order, the judges don’t like to be openly
mocked.  The aggressiveness of the Brown approach seems puzzling
until one considers the fallout of his realignment plan. Even
though California’s crime rate is almost at a historical low,
crime in its largest cities has spiked. Republicans and
conservative groups have  said  that the transfer of prisoners to
county jails has let criminals “fall through the cracks” and end
up on the streets.  Policy Blowback  County jails aren’t set up for longer-term inmates. News
reports have pointed to cases in which paroled sex offenders
have disabled their GPS-linked ankle bracelets since being
“realigned” to the jails, which don’t have the space to deal
with parole violators. Brown, it seems, is trying to avoid
blowback from his realignment policy by noisily opposing the
release of prisoners outright.  The continuing brouhaha signals the  return  to the law-and-order oratory that has paradoxically dominated California’s
liberal politics for many years, after some movement in a less
severe direction. (In November, voters approved Proposition 36,
which softened the state’s “three strikes” law by requiring that
the last strike be a serious or violent crime before triggering
a life sentence.)  That law-and-order frenzy reached its apex in 1998, when
Democratic Governor Gray Davis argued that  Singapore , which
executes convicted drug dealers, was “a good starting point” for
criminal-justice policies.  With his theatrics, Brown is showing once again that he is
the master of false choices as he evades real government reform.
He  persuaded  voters to approve a tax increase last year by
threatening to cut basic services. He has failed to address
whether government can stretch its dollars through changes in
its unsustainable largesse, which benefits unions and other
Democratic interest groups in the state.  Brown would rather spark a crisis with the courts than take
on the prison guards’ union, even though California’s
incarceration costs -- far above the national average per capita
-- are a scandal. Better to distract the public with the specter
of rising crime than address overcrowding by confronting the
waste and outrageous compensation in the prison-industrial
complex.  There are issues worthy of a confrontation with the feds.
“Our prisons are full of nonviolent criminals,” U.S. Senator
Rand Paul, the Kentucky Republican, said recently in discussing
a bill he co-wrote that would let judges reduce drug-related
sentences despite federal mandatory-minimum sentences.  When Brown ran for president in 1992, he showed an
iconoclastic side as he, for instance, championed a flat tax.
But this Jerry Brown is a conventional politician who seems to
care more about politics than policy -- even if it evokes
comparisons to George Wallace.  ( Steven Greenhut  is vice president of journalism for the
Franklin Center for Government and Public Integrity. He is based
in  Sacramento , California.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Steven Greenhut in Sacramento at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 