-- Juncker Hands Fate to Luxembourg Ruler as Coalition Fails
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-07-11T15:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/juncker-says-his-luxembourg-government-will-resign-tomorrow.html
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , the European Union’s longest-serving head of
government, placed his political fate in the hands of the
country’s grand duke after his ruling coalition collapsed.  Juncker, 58, who has been Luxembourg’s premier since 1995,
may face an early election in October after his coalition
partner, the Luxembourg Socialist Workers’ Party, defected
during a marathon parliamentary hearing yesterday and called for
the snap vote. The schism came after Juncker was implicated in a
security service spying probe.  “I don’t consider the events that happened yesterday to be
dramatic,” Finance Minister Luc Frieden said in an interview
today. “Elections were foreseen for May anyway. Now they’ll
probably take place in October. In difficult economic times,
this will allow us to work on the basis of a strong coalition
program for the coming five years.”  Juncker, a driving force behind the euro, stepped back from
the front lines of  Europe ’s debt crisis in January, when he
ceded the presidency of the Eurogroup, a post he’d held since
2005, to Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem.  A signatory of the 1992 Maastricht Treaty that created the
European Union and led to the introduction of the single
currency, he served as an intermediary between Germany and
 France  in hammering out the deficit-limiting stability pact in
1996 and in softening it in 2005.  ‘Series of Consultations’  The challenge to Juncker came after a July 5 report to
parliament that said he was “politically responsible” for
failing to inform lawmakers of “irregularities and supposed
illegalities” by the State Intelligence Service.  Grand Duke Henri , Luxembourg’s head of state, met with
Juncker today and said afterwards that he would “pause to
reflect” before undertaking a “series of consultations” on
the political situation.  Under Luxembourg’s  constitution , the grand duke has the
power to dissolve parliament. In that case, an election must be
held within three months.  Frieden said an early election would be “positive” for
economic policy. The compressed campaign will allow the
government quickly to resume “the work necessary to have growth
in Luxembourg, to create jobs and to continue to develop the
financial services sector,” he said.  Juncker said he’s keen to contest an early election, “but
it’s up to my party to decide” on a candidate. His Christian
Social People’s Party will hold a congress in Hesperange later
today.  Secret Service  During yesterday’s hearing in parliament, Juncker denied
allegations of using the secret service to further his own aims
and those of his party. “I don’t have much choice,” Juncker
said at the close of yesterday’s debate, indicating that he’d
propose new elections to the head of state.  According to the parliamentary commission created in
December, the secret service engaged in the illegal interception
of communications. It found that a private security agency was
created by an active intelligence agent and raised questions
about Juncker’s role in securing an agency job for his driver, a
former policeman.  Juncker challenged such assertions, arguing that the prime
minister can’t be expected to resign over the alleged misconduct
of a few intelligence agents.  He said Luxembourg needs “a fully functional government,”
and dismissed reports that his Cabinet would resign. “Reports
that today was the last meeting of the government are totally
unfounded,” Juncker said. “We can’t be without a government
until November.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  