-- Kenny Faces Own Party Revolt as Irish Lawmakers Vote on Abortion
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-07-10T11:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/kenny-faces-own-party-revolt-as-irish-lawmakers-vote-on-abortion.html
Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  is
bracing for the biggest revolt within his Fine Gael party since
forming a coalition government in March 2011 as lawmakers vote
today on proposed abortion legislation.  The bill would create a legal framework for a 1992 Supreme
Court ruling granting women the right to an abortion if the
mother’s life is at risk, including suicide. Up until now, there
has been no legislative basis for abortion in Ireland. Kenny is
seeking legislation after a 17-week pregnant Indian woman died
in an Irish hospital last year after being refused a
termination.  “If it is a thing I find I cannot vote for this
legislation this week, I may well be outside of the Fine Gael
parliamentary party,” European Affairs Minister Lucinda Creighton, the most senior member of Kenny’s party to voice
concerns about the bill, said in an RTE Radio interview
yesterday.  Successive Irish governments fearing a backlash in the
traditionally Catholic nation have avoided introducing laws to
pin down the meaning of the Supreme Court ruling. The case of
Savita Halappanavar, who died of septicaemia in October,
reignited the battle over abortion, which remains among the most
divisive issues in Irish society.  Four members of Kenny’s party have been expelled from the
party after voting against the legislation in an earlier stage
last week. The vote is scheduled to take place before midnight
today in Dublin.  Election Ban  Kenny told reporters earlier this month he didn’t expect
expelled lawmakers would be able to stand for the party in the
next general election.  Creighton has been one of Ireland’s main political
negotiators in  Europe  since her appointment in 2011 as the
nation seeks to exit its bailout program by year end. She tried
with other lawmakers to oust Kenny as party leader in 2010.  As many as four other lawmakers in Kenny’s party may also
vote against the government’s proposed legislation, according to
the Irish Independent newspaper. While Kenny’s government has
104 lawmakers in the 166-seat parliament, resignations would
trigger negative publicity for the country, according to Philip
O’Sullivan, an economist with Investec Plc in Ireland.  “This is the last thing Ireland needs as it targets a
successful bailout exit at year end,” said O’Sullivan. Recent
political turmoil in  Portugal  pushed up bond yields for the
nation, and illustrates that, he said.  Lawmakers including Creighton have raised concerns about a
clause in the legislation that provides for an abortion where
suicide is deemed a substantive risk.  Creighton told lawmakers on July 1 that the introduction of
the existing clause would introduce a “flawed element” and
called for substantive amendments to “ensure that the rights of
all human beings are protected.” A spokesman for Creighton
declined to comment on how the minister may vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  