-- Kentucky’s La Grange Cut to Junk on Risk of Default
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-07-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/kentucky-s-la-grange-cut-to-junk-on-risk-of-default.html
La Grange, a small Kentucky city
that backed debt used to buy land for commercial development
that mostly never occurred, had its  credit rating  cut five steps
to junk by Moody’s Investors Service, citing a risk of default.  The Oldham-La Grange Development Authority hasn’t been able
to sell most of 1,000 acres it acquired with financing from a
2005 bond backed by the city of about 8,000 residents, Moody’s
said in a statement. Without proceeds from building on the land,
La Grange may be forced to make an $8.1 million payment in June
2015, and may default after a tax proposal failed, Moody’s said.  “Obviously my City Council doesn’t understand the
ramifications of what’s going to happen,” La Grange Mayor Bill Lammlein, 68, said by telephone. Moody’s cut its score on La
Grange debt to Ba2, two levels below investment grade, from A3,
seventh highest, on July 8.  La Grange joins municipalities such as Vadnais Heights,
 Minnesota , and Moberly,  Missouri , whose debt fell into junk
territory after backing economic development projects that
failed to perform as forecast. Vadnais Heights backstopped a
local sports center while Moberly supported development of an
artificial-sweetener plant. Moody’s has called such
municipalities that drop to junk status “fallen angels.”  Tax Proposal  In La Grange, about 25 miles (40 kilometers) northeast of
Louisville, Lammlein’s proposed payroll tax would have raised
$600,000 a year, enough to refinance the municipality’s bonds
and cover debt service.  The development authority refinanced the 2005 debt last
year, saying by that point, only Rawlings Co. had developed a
portion of the site, building a 155,000-square-foot headquarters
for 550 employees that opened in 2007.  Moody’s has a negative outlook on La Grange, indicating
another cut may be made. The downgrade this week affected $11
million in debt, the company said. The last time an investor
bought an authority bond that matures in June 2015 was in
October, with a yield of about 2 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Debt issued by Oldham County, where La Grange is the county
seat, isn’t rated by Moody’s.  Standard & Poor’s  grades it AA,
third highest.  La Grange’s rating could be raised if its tax revenue
increases or if it finds a way to refinance the debt, Moody’s
said. Lammlein said he plans to resubmit the payroll levy plan.  “This struggle isn’t over yet,” the mayor said.  “We could do away with our police department, our public
works department, but we wouldn’t be much of a city anymore,”
Lammlein said. “We’ve got to make good on our promise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  