-- Kenya to Form State-Owned Company for Stakes in Mining Projects
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-07-10T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/kenya-to-form-state-owned-company-for-stakes-in-mining-projects.html
Kenya  will form a state-owned
company that will hold stakes in mines and establish a sovereign
wealth fund to manage revenue from the industry, Mining
Secretary Najib Balala said.  The government is repealing a law that required at least 35
percent domestic ownership, reducing it to 10 percent that will
be held by the government, Balala said in an interview on July 9
in the capital, Nairobi. The new legislation, creating what will
be known as the National Mining Corp., is expected to be enacted
by November, he said.  “We are waiting for the new bill to be approved by Cabinet
and parliament,” he said.  Kenya is the world’s third-biggest producer of soda ash,
used in the manufacture of glass, and ranks seventh globally in
output of fluorspar, used to make steel, according to the U.S.
Geological Survey. The country also has deposits of gold, rubies
and sapphires, though the industry represents less than 1
percent of its gross domestic product, according to the African
Development Bank.  Investment in natural-resource development trails other
countries in East  Africa  including  Tanzania , which is Africa’s
fourth-largest gold producer, and Uganda, which found oil in
2006 and may start producing the fuel next year.  Tata Chemicals Ltd. (TTCH) , based in  Mumbai ,  India , produces soda
ash at Lake Magadi in Kenya, while West Perth, Australia-based
 Base Resources Ltd. (BSE)  owns the Kwale mineral-sands project in
southeastern Kenya and  Goldplat Plc (GDP)  operates a gold mine in
western Kenya. Cortec Mining Kenya Ltd., a Nairobi-based
exploration company, plans to start production at its niobium
project in southeastern Kenya by 2016.  Airborne Survey  Balala, who was appointed as head of the newly created
Mines Ministry in May, said his priorities as Cabinet secretary
include conducting an airborne survey to determine the number of
mineral deposits in the East African country.  The government estimates there’s as much as 1.5 billion
metric tons of coal in four of 31 exploration blocks in Kitui,
eastern Kenya, he said.  Kenya also envisages becoming a minerals-trading and
processing hub, Balala said.  “My plan is to have a metal and minerals exchange, to have
a gold refinery and exchange in Kenya and also to be a value-addition center for gemstones, iron ore, manganese and the heavy
metals,” he said.  The proposed new law calls for the creation of a Mineral
Sovereign Fund into which a quarter of mining royalties received
by the government will be held for future investment, Balala
said. The state is proposing that three-quarters of total
royalties go to the national government, 20 percent to county
administrations and 5 percent to local communities, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  