-- Kenya Plans Derivatives to REITs to Boost Trading Volumes
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-07-10T06:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/kenya-plans-derivatives-to-reits-to-boost-trading-volumes-1-.html
Kenya’s bourse, East  Africa ’s
largest, plans to introduce derivatives and real estate
investment trusts after equity trading volumes declined,
according to the financial-markets regulator.  The  Capital Markets Authority  will probably approve the
introduction of futures products, with a focus on interest-rate
and foreign-exchange derivatives, and asset-backed securities by
December, Paul Muthaura, the regulator’s acting chief executive
officer, said. Exchange-traded funds may be started next year,
he said. The FTSE NSE Kenya 25 index has gained 23 percent this
year, with the nation’s main stocks gauge the third-best
performing in Africa after Ghana and  Nigeria .  “The new range of products will deepen the market,” he
said in an interview in Nairobi, the capital, July 8.
“Providing new investment opportunities will attract more
foreign investors looking for a variety of investment options
and allow local investors to spread their investment and tap
into new sources of raising capital for projects.”  Kenya’s  Nairobi (NSEASI)  Securities Exchange, which trades stocks
and bonds, is sub-Saharan Africa’s third-biggest bourse and its
market capitalization is less than a 20th the size of South
Africa and about a quarter of Nigeria.  The volume of stocks traded in Nairobi fell to 5.46 billion
in 2012 compared with a record 7.55 billion in 2010 and 5.72
billion in 2011, data provided by the exchange show. Almost 46
billion shares were traded on South Africa’s FTSE/JSE Africa All
Share index last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘High Potential’  The total value of bonds traded in Kenya last year was 1.14
trillion shillings ($13 billion), according to the exchange.
That compares with 2.18 trillion rand ($216 billion) in  South
Africa , according to Bloomberg calculations based on  data 
provided by the  Johannesburg Stock Exchange .  “There is high potential in raising funds from
institutional investors, foreign investors and high net worth
individuals through the introduction of these new products,”
Kenneth Kaniu, chief investment officer at Nairobi-based Stanlib
Kenya Ltd., a unit of Standard Bank Group Ltd., with 170 billion
shillings under management, said by phone.  Three investment funds have applied to list REITs, Muthaura
said, without identifying the companies. REITs are companies
that have property-linked assets and pay out most of their
income to investors through distributions. The South African
REIT Association was started in May after six years of talks to
create regulations for the industry, which is set to become the
world’s eighth largest REIT market with 26 companies, according
to its  website .  Institutional Investors  “The REITs will target institutional investors and high-net-worth individuals with a minimum of 5 million shillings per
unit to ensure sufficient funds are raised within the shortest
time,” Muthaura said.  Housing Finance Co. Ltd., Kenya’s only publicly traded
mortgage lender, said last week it wants the government to
exempt REITs from paying tax on  capital gains . Housing Finance
plans to have a stake in REITs as a manager, land owner and
property developer as well as trustee, serving as a custodian of
assets owned by a trust. Centum Investment Co., Kenya’s largest
publicly traded investment group, may also list a real-estate
project as a REIT, Nairobi-based Business Daily newspaper
 reported  last year.  The exchange will introduce two classes of REITs. One will
focus on existing commercial properties earning rental income
and minimum fund size of 300 million shillings. The other will
target properties under development with more than 100 million
shillings in capital, Muthaura said.  Commodity Instruments  The proposed futures and derivatives exchange will also
include commodity instruments, Muthaura said. Regulations for
the market will be ready by next month, he said.  The introduction of asset-backed securities will help fund
power, water, rail and road projects in  Kenya , Muthaura said,
without providing details. Kenya’s government has budgeted to
spend 442 billion shillings on infrastructure in the fiscal year
to June 30, 2014.  The regulator said July 8 it plans to introduce exchange-traded funds and is seeking a consultant to develop regulations.
Unlike a mutual fund, the shares of which are priced daily after
the end of each trading session, an ETF is listed on an exchange
where it is bought and sold throughout the day.  “The new investment instruments will provide an
opportunity to diversify investment portfolios,” Vimal Parmar,
the Nairobi-based head of research for Burbidge Capital, said by
phone yesterday.  Regional Platform  The authority is also in talks with Tanzania, Uganda and
 Rwanda , who are members of the five-nation  East African
Community , about providing a platform for businesses to raise
capital in various markets simultaneously, Muthaura said.
Burundi, the fifth member, doesn’t have a  capital market .  “We are planning to co-ordinate approval process allowing
businesses to issue multi-currency debt instruments,” with one
such application already being processed, Muthaura said.  The FTSE NSE Kenya 25 Index gained for a fifth day
yesterday, climbing 0.6 percent to 157.91. The gauge has
advanced 23 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  