-- N Korea Open to Talks If UN Troops Leave, Diplomat Says
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-07-10T16:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/n-korea-open-to-talks-if-un-troops-leave-diplomat-says.html
North Korea remains open to talks
with the U.S. if the American-led United Nations military
command in South Korea is dissolved, a North Korean diplomat
said today.  In North Korea’s second briefing for foreign reporters in
less than three weeks, So Se Pyong, ambassador to the country’s
mission in Geneva, said joint U.S.-South Korean military
exercises risk a “wartime situation,” while declining to
comment on his nation’s plans for further nuclear tests.  So’s comments followed similar statements by his country’s
UN ambassador, Sin Son Ho, in New York last month. The regime
has ramped up rhetoric blaming the U.S. for the division of the
Korean peninsula as it marks the 60th anniversary of the 1953
armistice that ended Korean War combat.  “The UN command in South Korea is one of the notorious
structures that causes danger of war in the Korean peninsula,”
So said. “We are now ready for any kind of talks to ease the
tension on the Korean peninsula.”  Earlier this year, North Korea’s dictator Kim Jong Un
rattled nerves by conducting a nuclear weapons test, declaring
its withdrawal from the armistice, ordering missile forces onto
alert and threatening strikes. Tensions peaked during joint
military drills by the U.S. and South Korea in March and April.  The U.S.-led UN command oversees the truce agreement,
including the world’s most fortified demilitarized zone, which
divides the Korean peninsula along the 38th parallel. The U.S.
supports South Korea with about 28,500 troops stationed in the
country.  North Korea celebrates July 27 as “the Korean people’s day
of victory in the great Fatherland Liberation War” against
U.S.-led allied troops defending South Korea.  Six-Party Talks  The U.S. has effectively rejected North Korea’s June 16
proposal for high-level talks. President  Barack Obama ’s
administration said North Korea should first demonstrate its
seriousness by ending nuclear and missile tests and re-engaging
in the six-party talks over denuclearization with China, Japan,
Russia, South Korea and the U.S.  “Our focus right now is more on working with our partners
in the region to put the necessary pressure on North Korea to
take steps to denuclearize,” U.S. State Department spokeswoman
Jen Psaki told reporters on July 3 in  Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  