-- N.Z. Needs Monthly CPI to Assist Rate Setting, Committee Finds
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-07-10T04:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/n-z-needs-monthly-cpi-to-assist-rate-setting-committee-finds.html
New Zealand  should produce a
 consumer price index  monthly rather than quarterly to aid the
central bank in setting interest rates, according to a committee
set up to review the inflation gauge.  “The benefits to monetary policy setting and the wider
community would outweigh the increased costs of production,”
the CPI Advisory Committee said in its report today, posted on
Statistics New Zealand’s  website . Moving to a higher frequency
should “be accorded a high priority,” it said.  New Zealand and  Australia  are the only member countries of
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development that
don’t have a monthly CPI reading, the report said. Increasing
the frequency of the index may help the  Reserve Bank  of New
Zealand’s ability to achieve its primary goal, which is to keep
inflation within a range of 1 percent to 3 percent.  “Producing the CPI on a monthly basis would align New
Zealand with international practice,” the committee said. The
extra costs should be “resourced through additional funding
rather than by reprioritising existing official statistics,” it
said.  A monthly index is one of 16 main recommendations from the
committee which comprised economists, academics and a
representative from the central bank, trade unions and business.
The RBNZ submitted a submission favoring a monthly CPI,
according to the report.  Governor Graeme Wheeler last month said he expected to keep
the official cash rate unchanged at a record-low 2.5 percent
this year, citing benign inflation. The central bank doesn’t
forecast annual  inflation  reaching 2 percent until 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  