-- Nigeria Agrees to Cease-Fire With Boko Haram, Turaki Says
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-07-10T15:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/nigeria-agrees-to-cease-fire-with-boko-haram-turaki-says.html
Nigeria  agreed to a cease-fire with
Boko Haram that started July 8 after talks with the Islamist
group’s deputy leader, Mohammed Marwan, Minister of Special
Duties Kabiru Turaki said.  The agreement has the support of Boko Haram leader Abubakar
Shekau, Turaki, who’s chairman of a presidential committee set
up to negotiate with the group, said today by phone from Abuja,
the capital. A pledge in January by a self-proclaimed Boko Haram
spokesman, Abu Mohammed Ibn Abdulaziz, that the group agreed to
lay down its arms didn’t halt the violence.  “There were mediations in the beginning, but at the end of
the day we spoke face to face,” Turaki said. The cease-fire is
“a result of painstaking series of discussions and meetings
we’ve had with them.” Talks about signing a public agreement
are still under way, he said.  Boko Haram, whose name means “western education is a sin”
in the Hausa language, has killed thousands of people in gun and
bomb attacks since 2009 in the mainly Muslim north and Abuja in
its campaign to establish an Islamic state in  Africa ’s largest
oil producer. Nigeria’s more than 160 million people are roughly
split between Christians, predominant in the south, and Muslims,
mostly in the north.  Credibility Question  “Such an announcement of cessation of violence needs to
come from the leader of Boko Haram himself,” Clement Nwankwo,
executive director of Abuja-based Policy and Legal Advocacy
Center, said by phone today, referring to Shekau. “I think that
would be much more credible than a statement by a government
official.”  The military of Africa’s largest oil producer began an air
and ground offensive against Boko Haram on May 16, two days
after Jonathan imposed emergency rule in the northeastern states
of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa to step up the fight against Islamist
militants. The insurgents were taking over parts of Borno state,
according to Jonathan.  Turaki said the agreement came after the government began
freeing suspects linked to the group as a “good faith”
gesture. The release of Boko Haram’s detainees has been one of
the group’s main demands.  The cease-fire came in effect two days after 20 students
and a teacher were killed in an attack on a secondary school in
the northeastern state of Yobe. Eli Lazarus, a spokesman for the
joint military and police task force in Yobe, said the attack
was probably carried out by Boko Haram.  Boko Haram’s leader, Abubakar Shekau, said in April the
group wouldn’t accept a government amnesty.  A spokesman for the group who gave his name as Abu Zinnira
said in a June 18 e-mailed statement that the militants would
continue attacking young people who cooperate with the security
agencies in the fight against the group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  