-- North Korea Proposes More Talks Amid Gaeseong Impasse
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-07-10T16:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/north-korea-proposes-more-talks-amid-gaeseong-impasse.html
North Korea  proposed holding talks
on two issues South Korea has been seeking to resolve for years,
after it failed to win the South’s agreement to reopen a factory
park that has been a source of hard currency.  The North suggested two separate sets of working-level
discussions next week, South Korean Unification Ministry
spokesman Kim Hyung Suk told reporters yesterday in  Seoul . Those
talks would cover resuming South Korean tours to the Mount
Geumgang resort in North Korea and arranging a reunion for
families divided by the  Korean War  to coincide with September
holidays.  The South declined the North’s call to discuss a resumption
of tours on July 17 because it’s more “desirable” to focus on
continuing negotiations on reviving another inter-Korean
economic project, the Gaeseong industrial park, Kim said.  South
Korea  agreed to talk about reunions on July 19, although it
suggested holding the meeting at the Panmunjom border village
and not in North Korea, he said.  North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has seen his isolation
intensify after his biggest backer,  China , joined the U.S. and
South Korea in condemning his nuclear ambitions. He has toned
down his rhetoric in recent weeks since withdrawing his workers
from Gaeseong in April. That move, meant to protest tightened
United Nations sanctions over North Korea’s nuclear-weapons
program and U.S.-South Korean military drills, followed threats
of atomic strikes and denied Kim’s regime hard currency.  Border Hotline  The North made the proposals this afternoon through a
border hotline, while officials from the two sides were at the
Gaeseong complex to reach a deal reversing its April closure.
The only outcome of yesterday’s seven-hour meeting was to meet
again on July 15.  South Korean President Park Geun Hye’s government has
remained firm in its stance to not engage the North until it
gives up its nuclear weapons. She has excluded discussions on
inter-Korean economic projects and humanitarian issues from her
refusal to talk to the North ahead of its denuclearization.  Park was elected last year as the country’s first female
leader partly on her pledge to improve ties with the North
through a “trust-building” process. She has said a nuclear-armed North Korea is “unacceptable,” while issues of
humanitarian aid remain independent of politics and bilateral
trust can be developed through “exchange and cooperation.”  Park aims to alter the approach of her predecessor,  Lee Myung Bak , who abandoned previous administrations’ “Sunshine
Policy” of engagement, during which the Gaeseong complex and
the Mount Geumgang resort came into being.  The “Diamond Mountain” resort at Mount Geumgang, opened
in 1998 by the two Koreas as a symbol of hope for reunification,
has been closed since 2008, when North Korean troops shot and
killed a South Korean guest walking on a restricted beach.  The last reunion for families divided during the 1950-1953
Korean War was in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  