-- North Carolina’s McCrory to Reject Abortion Measure
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2013-07-10T17:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/north-carolina-s-mccrory-to-reject-abortion-measure.html
North Carolina  Governor Pat McCrory
said he would veto legislation imposing new restrictions on
abortion clinics unless “significant changes” are made.  The bill requiring abortion clinics to meet hospital-like
standards passed the state Senate on July 3. A House committee
heard testimony yesterday without acting.  The proposal, which was attached to a bill intended to ban
Islamic Sharia law, is similar to restrictions already approved
or under consideration in other Republican-led state
legislatures.  The Texas House approved a measure today that would require
abortions to be done in hospital-like settings, require doctors
to have hospital admitting privileges and ban abortions after 20
weeks. The Texas Senate may vote on it as early as July 12. In
both  Texas  and North Carolina, most abortion providers don’t
meet the proposed new standards.  In an e-mailed statement today, Republican McCrory didn’t
specify which changes he wanted in the measure. Both chambers of
the legislature are dominated by Republicans.  “The governor believes that major portions of the bill are
of sound principle and value,” according to the statement from
his office.  New Plan  After the statement, a North Carolina House panel today
approved a new abortion measure that supporters described as a
compromise. Kim Genardo, a spokeswoman for McCrory, said the
governor hasn’t yet reviewed the legislation and had no
immediate comment.  The bill the governor threatened to veto would ban
abortions based on gender and require doctors to be present
during an abortion. It also said women who are prescribed an
abortion pill would have to take the medication in a doctor’s
presence.  Only one of 16 North Carolina abortion providers meet the
hospital-like standards provision of the legislation, said
Suzanne Buckley, executive director of NARAL Pro Choice North
Carolina, which supports abortion access, in an interview.  The North Carolina Senate last week added the abortion
provisions to a measure on Sharia law that had already passed
the House. The bill passed the Senate without a public hearing,
prompting criticism from McCrory, who said lawmakers had moved
too quickly.  Worker Protection  McCrory, who is the state’s first Republican governor in a
century to also have a Republican-controlled state legislature,
won’t elaborate on which parts of the legislation he opposes,
said a spokesman, Ryan Tronovitch.  In a House committee hearing yesterday, his Department of
Health and Human Services secretary, Aldona Wos, said she and
McCrory support parts of the bill that would broaden job
protections for health-care workers who refuse to participate in
abortions and that expand education for pregnant women.  She didn’t say whether the governor opposes hospital-like
standards.  Bill supporters -- including state Representative Ruth Samuelson, a Republican from  Charlotte  and state Senator Warren Daniel, a Republican from Morganton -- didn’t return phone calls
seeking comment on the governor’s veto threat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  