-- Norwegian Inflation Rate Unchanged in June as Krone Weakened
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-07-10T09:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/norwegian-inflation-rate-unchanged-in-june-as-krone-weakened-1-.html
Norway ’s underlying inflation rate
was unchanged in June as the krone weakened amid signals of
further easing from the central bank.  The rate, adjusted for taxes and energy prices, held at 1.4
percent in June, Oslo-based  Statistics Norway  said today. The
rate was estimated to remain at 1.4 percent, according to the
median forecast of seven economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Underlying consumer prices fell 0.3 percent in the month.  Norges Bank estimated an increase in inflation to 1.5
percent last month, “so the figures are slightly on the weak
side,” Katrine Boye, senior economist at Nordea Bank AB, said
in an e-mailed note. As long as the krone stays at current
level, “the probability of a rate cut in September is very
small,” she wrote.  Policy makers at Norges Bank held the benchmark deposit
rate unchanged at 1.5 percent on June 20 and signaled an
increased chance of easing this year amid slower-than-projected
inflation. The krone has weakened 3 percent since June 19. The
strength of the currency has helped keep inflation below the
bank’s 2.5 percent target since 2009.  The krone gained 0.5 percent to 7.8564 per euro and was 0.7
percent stronger at 6.1337 per dollar as of 11:45 a.m. in the
Norwegian capital.  DNB ASA (DNB) , Norway’s largest lender, still expects a rate cut
by Norges Bank in September, it said. “This is conditional on a
stronger kroner in the months ahead, than in the weeks after the
June monetary policy meeting,” Kjersti Haugland, an analyst at
DNB in Oslo, said in an e-mail.  Norway’s headline inflation rate was 2.1 percent in the
year and consumer prices fell 0.4 percent in the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  