-- Hon Hai Revenue Beats Estimates on TVs as Apple Orders Weaken
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-07-10T10:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/hon-hai-revenue-beats-estimates-on-tvs-as-apple-orders-weaken.html
Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the
world’s largest contract manufacturer of electronics, posted
revenue that beat analyst estimates as televisions helped offset
weaker orders for  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones and iPads.  Second-quarter revenue was NT$897 billion ($30 billion),
according to data released by the Taipei-based company today.
That was 0.6 percent higher than a year earlier and surpasses
the NT$829 billion average of 13  analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Hon Hai, flagship of Terry Gou’s Foxconn Technology Group,
is looking to televisions and more-efficient manufacturing to
boost earnings after being forced to share orders for Apple
devices with rivals including  Pegatron Corp. (4938)  Billionaire Gou
last month guaranteed to shareholders that profit will climb
this year even as revenue dropped 9.9 percent in the first half.  “It’s definitely a surprise with only some areas like TVs
being the bright spots because iPhone is still weak,” said
Arthur Liao, who has a reduce rating on the stock at Fubon
Financial Holding Co. in Taipei. “The question is whether it
can be sustained because new Apple devices won’t come until the
end of the third quarter.”  More aggressive sales of large-screen TVs, as well as
increased orders from Chinese clients including Beijing-based
smartphone vendor Xiaomi Corp., may have helped offset the
weakness in Apple devices, Fubon’s Liao said.  Hon Hai spokesman Simon Hsing didn’t answer two calls to
his mobile phone today.  Sales and earnings at Hon Hai may also be boosted by a
turnaround at Hong Kong-listed contract phone manufacturer FIH
Mobile Ltd., of which Hon Hai owns about 70 percent. FIH,
previously called Foxconn International Holdings, said June 1
that it may return to profit in the six months ending June.  Hon Hai is due to report second-quarter net income next
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  