-- Froome Extends Tour de France Lead as Martin Wins Time Trial
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-07-10T23:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/tony-martin-wins-tour-de-france-time-trial-froome-extends-lead.html
Chris Froome extended his Tour de
 France  lead by two minutes after finishing second to Tony Martin
in the individual time trial on stage 11.  Martin of the Omega Pharma team covered the 20.5-mile (33-kilometer) course to Mont-Saint-Michel yesterday in 36 minutes,
29 seconds, 12 seconds faster than Froome. Thomas De Gendt of
 Belgium  was just over a minute further back in third.  Team Sky’s Froome, a Kenya-born Briton who finished second
last year to teammate Bradley Wiggins, increased his lead over
Movistar’s Alejandro Valverde to  three minutes and 25 seconds 
after 11 of 21 stages.  “That last couple of kilometers I was really struggling to
turn my legs,” Froome said on his team’s website. “I was just
trying to get to the finish. That still gives me a good buffer
going into the next few days though, and I think I am going to
need every second I can get the way everyone is riding.”  Bauke Mollema of the Netherlands is 12 seconds further back
in third place and  Spain ’s two-time champion  Alberto Contador  is
3 minutes, 54 seconds behind Froome in fourth. Wiggins isn’t
competing this year because of injury.  Today’s stage covers 135 miles between Fougeres and Tours.
The 2,116 mile-Tour ends July 21 in Paris.  On flat terrain on the northern coast of France, Froome was
two seconds faster than Martin of  Germany  after two-thirds of
the stage before falling behind the world time trial champion
over the last seven miles.  Urine Thrown  Earlier yesterday, a spectator threw urine at  Mark Cavendish , a day after the British sprinter was involved in a
collision with Dutch rider Tom Veelers. With the pair riding
side by side during a mass sprint, Cavendish knocked the arm of
Veelers, who lost his balance and crashed onto the road.  Cavendish, who denied knocking over Veelers on purpose,
wasn’t sanctioned by race officials.  Cavendish’s Omega Pharma team manager Patrick Lefevere said
the rider was “not upset, just sad” about having urine thrown
at him, Britain Press Association reported. Team spokesman
Alessandro Tegner confirmed the comments by e-mail.  “I regret this,” Lefevere said. “I always felt that
cycling fans were gentlemen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  