-- Moody’s Raises Outlook of U.K. Banking System on Impairments
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2013-07-10T09:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/moody-s-increases-outlook-for-u-k-banks-on-lower-impairments.html
Moody’s Investors Service raised its
outlook of the U.K. banking system to stable, citing improving
profitability and lower impairments after lenders stepped up
efforts to clean up balance sheets and raise  capital ratios .  Moody’s increased the outlook from negative, according to
an e-mailed  statement  today. The ratings firm said that it
maintains a negative outlook on the long-term debt and deposit
ratings of large U.K. banks, “reflecting its view that the U.K.
authorities will continue to take steps to reduce the level of
systemic support over the medium term.”  British banks have sold assets and eliminated jobs to
bolster earnings and meet tougher capital rules aimed to make
them more resilient in future financial crises.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
have all said that sales of businesses and retained profits mean
they won’t need to raise money from equity investors.  “We believe that U.K. banks are sufficiently well
capitalized to absorb expected losses from both our central and
adverse stress scenarios,” the ratings company said. “Moody’s
expects profitability to recover from its very low levels,
reflecting the improvement in asset quality and already high
levels of provisions for conduct-related costs.”  Capital Shortfall  Moody’s said the upgrade also reflects an “increasingly
stable economic outlook.” While U.K. lenders continue to face
“the prospect of low medium-term economic growth,” the firm
said it doesn’t expect “a deterioration in the operating
environment.” Banks will be “well capitalized for the risks
they face” once they meet the Prudential Regulation Authority’s
buffer requirements, according to the report.  The PRA, the Bank of England’s new banking supervisor, last
month outlined 13.4 billion pounds ($20 billion) that lenders
must raise by the end of 2013 to withstand possible losses on
loans, fines and other risks. It had previously found a capital
shortfall of 27.1 billion pounds.  “In the long term, Moody’s expects U.K. systemic risk will
be reduced by higher  capital requirements , including significant
loss-absorbing and counter-cyclical capital buffers,” it said.
“The stable outlook for the system is compatible with the
stable outlook on the standalone credit assessment of most U.K.
banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in London at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  