-- Hospital Debt Proves Worst Casualty in Sick Market: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-07-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/hospital-debt-proves-worst-casualty-in-sick-market-muni-credit.html
Bonds sold by hospitals are turning
into the biggest losers in the municipal market as a delay in a
provision of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul
converges with near-record withdrawals from high-yield funds.  Hospital and health-care debt has lost 3.8 percent this
month, making it the market’s weakest segment,  Standard & Poor’s 
data show. The slide marks a reversal, after the bonds beat all
local borrowings in the first four months of 2013. The debt is
being punished by diminished demand for  high-yield  munis, which
have dropped 4.6 percent in July. Almost half of stand-alone
hospitals are rated junk or within three levels of it, according 
to S&P.  Amid the worst quarter for local debt since 2010, investors
pulled about $1.2 billion from high-yield muni funds in the week
through June 26, the second-biggest loss since Lipper US Fund
Flows data began in 1992. Then last week, the administration
delayed the part of its health-care law that would fine
companies for not offering workers affordable insurance.  “It’s just more uncertainty as to how health-care reform
is going to work out,” said Bill Black, a senior portfolio
manager in  Oakbrook Terrace ,  Illinois , for Invesco Ltd., which
oversees about $6.6 billion in high-yield munis. “You have to
be very careful and very selective in terms of what speculative
credits you’re buying.”  Selloff Fuel  The $3.7 trillion market for local debt lost 3.1 percent
last quarter, the most since the final three months of 2010.
Munis joined a fixed-income selloff fueled by bets that the
 Federal Reserve  will slow its bond buying. Investors yanked an
unprecedented $9 billion from all muni mutual funds in the past
two weeks, Lipper data show.  Before the declines, hospital and health-care debt had been
rallying. The U.S. Supreme Court last year left in place a
mandate in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act that
Americans obtain health insurance or pay a fine, leading
investors to bet that such a requirement would curb
uncompensated costs and boost the systems’ finances.  The government will postpone enforcement of the employer
mandate until 2015, after congressional elections, the
administration said July 2. Under the provision, companies with
50 or more workers face a fine of as much as $3,000 per employee
if they don’t offer affordable insurance.  Risk Profile  Health facilities had also benefitted from the Fed’s policy
of keeping its key lending rate near zero, boosting demand for
weaker credits as investors sought higher yields.  In one example of a hospital issuer facing fiscal stress,
Temple University Health System in Philadelphia saw its credit
rank weaken last month.  S&P cut the system to BB+, one step below investment grade.
The ratings company cited a “very modest market share” and the
group’s reliance on Medicaid payments.  The system is among those contending with higher yields
after benchmark  interest rates  set a 26-month high in June.  Tax-exempt bonds issued for Temple by the Philadelphia
Hospitals & Higher Education Facilities Authority and maturing
in July 2036 traded this week at an average yield of 5.77
percent, close to the highest since the debt’s issuance in June
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  California Issue  Across the country, the California Health Facilities
Financing Authority yesterday issued on behalf of the St. Joseph
Health System. Debt maturing in 10 years was priced to yield
3.86 percent, about 1 percentage point more than benchmark
munis. S&P rates the bonds AA-, fourth-best.  Bonds from higher-rated systems will recover faster than
speculative-grade securities, said John Loffredo, co-head of
Princeton, New Jersey-based MacKay Municipal Managers, which
oversees $7.5 billion of local debt. Hospital and health-care
borrowings will probably still outperform this year, he said.  The size of hospital and health-care deals may have
contributed to the segments’ decline as individuals withdrew
money from funds, said Dennis Derby, who helps oversee $34
billion of munis at Wells Capital Management in  Menomonee Falls ,
 Wisconsin . With the outflows, money managers probably turned to
their easiest-to-trade holdings to sell, he said.  “If you’re a high-yield mutual fund and people are
liquidating, you have no choice but to sell, and that’s when all
the bids fade,” said Alan Schankel, head of fixed-income
research in Philadelphia at Janney Montgomery Scott.  In the new issuance market this week,  Utah  and the Illinois 
State Toll Highway Authority are among localities offering a 
combined $6.5 billion.  At  2.8 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis are the
highest this month and compare with  2.64 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the interest rates, a gauge of relative value,
is about 106 percent, compared with an average of about 93
percent since 2001. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are
compared with federal securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  