-- How Women Rose and Took the Fall on Wall Street
-- B y   M e l i s s a   S .   F i s h e r
-- 2013-07-10T21:42:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/how-women-rose-and-took-the-fall-on-wall-street.html
When Ina Drew resigned as  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s chief investment officer last year after reports
the bank lost more than $6 billion, the New York Times referred
to her as “the woman who took the fall.”  It is up for debate whether financial companies have
scapegoated women such as  Drew  in the aftermath of the financial
crisis. What is certain is that just half a century ago it was
unimaginable that women might make it high enough in the ranks
of Wall Street to take the fall for anything.  Women weren’t entirely invisible. As a 1958 article in the
New York Times pointed out, physically, women “play a part in
the sense that each weekday the Street’s stone and concrete
canyons echo to the click-clack of approximately 60,000 high-heels as secretaries, stenos, bookkeepers, receptionists, ticker
operators, file clerks, messengers and pages pour out of subways
and into offices.”  But those offices made most women less visible; they had to
work not only in these subordinate positions but well behind the
scenes. They were on call for powerful men. In the women’s
bathroom of at least one company, there were light bulbs labeled
with partners’ names. When a partner phoned a secretary from his
desk, the corresponding light would go on, and the woman was
expected to run out immediately to attend to him.  Marry Boss  Men didn’t consider women contenders in the financial
workplace. As the Times article put it, “It is extremely
unlikely that any will attain any notable financial position
unless she is able to marry the boss, outlive him and inherit
his share of the business.”  As it turned out, the  New York  Times wasn’t entirely on the
mark. A small but growing group of (mostly white) middle and
upper-middle class women took advantage of the growing labor
opportunities during the early post-World War II period.  Change was slow. As late as 1969, the Wall Street
journalist Martin Mayer noted the presence of exactly one Asian
American, one black and one woman. Two years earlier, Muriel Siebert had been the first woman to buy a seat on the New York
Stock Exchange. But as she was opening her own business, about
60 other women were following in her footsteps -- the first
generation of women in finance.  Many members of this first generation made their way in
finance in the early 1970s, during one of the worst recessions.
They lived in cramped studio apartments and walked or took the
bus to work. Almost all began their careers in back-office
support positions, most often in research. Some found jobs
through ads in the newspapers; others through family or college
connections. They were paid significantly less than their male
counterparts. They weren’t allowed to participate in the formal
training programs, so they had to learn on the job from male
bosses -- some supportive, others not.  For some, the entree, support and training almost made up
for the lower pay. One woman said that she was very happy for
the professional opportunity offered by her first job in the
early 1970s, though her company paid women researchers less than
secretaries. The director of research bragged that he was the
only one hiring women because he could get the talent cheaper;
he considered himself generous for hiring one female college
graduate every year.  Other women were less accepting of such discrimination. In
1973,  Helen O’Bannon , an unsuccessful applicant for a position
as an account executive with Merrill Lynch & Co., sued the
brokerage on the grounds that it had discriminated against her
on the basis of her sex. Specifically, she sued the company over
the entrance exam for its broker-trainee program, which asked
questions such as “When you meet a woman, what interests you
most about her?’’  Women’s Intelligence  Not only did such a question assume that the candidate was
a heterosexual man, but the correct answer was the woman’s
beauty; the fewest points were given to those who said they
would appreciate the hypothetical woman’s intelligence. O’Bannon
won the suit.  Wall Street  companies were now on notice.  Over the next three decades, the first generation of Wall
Street women managed to move up the career ladder in part
because of their own efforts and male mentors. But they couldn’t
have entered the professional workforce without the feminist
movement’s insistence on the opening up of formally male
professions, such as finance.  And the women helped one another. At the beginning of their
careers, women often felt isolated. But gradually many were able
to form ties with one another at the  Financial Women’s
Association  of  New York City . They fostered their own network
beyond the walls of their specific companies. This became an
alternate career training ground for women.  Moreover, beginning in the mid-1970s, the area of research
(where most women worked) became increasingly important and
analysts became valued employees, who eventually joined
investment bankers and others in the “front office.” Accounts of
women breaking glass ceilings on Wall Street, though still rare,
were less uncommon from the 1980s to the early years of the new
millennium.  Morgan Stanley’s former co-president Zoe Cruz, former
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Chief Financial Officer  Erin Callan  and  Sallie Krawcheck , a former senior executive at Bank
of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc., followed in the footsteps
of the first cohort of women. Many believed that a woman from
their generation would break through the ultimate glass ceiling
in finance and become a chief executive officer.  The 2008 financial crisis dashed such hopes. Instead of
crashing triumphantly through the ultimate gendered boundary,
accomplished women such as Cruz resigned. The number of younger
women in finance declined, too. During the first decade of the
new millennium, the number of women between the ages of 20 and
35 working in investment banks, brokerage houses and other
financial-services companies dropped by 315,000, or 16.5
percent. Meanwhile, the number of men from that age group grew
by 93,000, or 7.3 percent.  For the most part, members of the first generation of Wall
Street women have left finance. Some left on their own. Others
were asked to leave.  Their legacy is mixed. Male bosses can no longer summon a
woman from the bathroom. And some female pioneers feel that
senior men have become comfortable with the presence of women,
at least when they are just a small minority. But women account
for only 3 percent of chief executives of financial companies,
according to the consulting group  Catalyst . And a woman has yet
to become CEO of a major Wall Street company.  ( Melissa S. Fisher , a visiting assistant professor in the
Department of Social and Cultural Analysis at  New York
University , is the author of “Wall Street Women.”)  To contact the author of this post:
Melissa S. Fisher at  ms4@nyu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  