-- Pandora Drops as Analyst Warns of Apple Advantage in Cars
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-07-10T20:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/pandora-drops-as-analyst-warns-of-apple-advantage-in-cars.html
Pandora Media Inc. (P) , the biggest
online radio service, fell the most in more than a month after
an analyst said that  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  will be an effective competitor
for people who listen in cars.  The shares dropped 8.5 percent to $17.97 at the close in
 New York , the biggest decline  since  June 3. The Oakland,
California-based company’s stock has almost doubled this year,
while the Russell 1000 Index has added 16 percent.  Pandora faces a new competitive threat from Apple, which is
integrating hands-free voice controls into automobiles and
introducing a new iTunes Radio service,  Richard Greenfield , an
analyst at BTIG LLC in New York, wrote in a report. The analyst
said he has been testing a pre-release version of Apple’s radio
service.  “Apple is leveraging its expertise in marrying hardware
and software design to strengthen their ecosystem as they try to
take a more active role in the ‘connected car,’” wrote
Greenfield, who recommends selling Pandora shares.  Gaining access to listeners in cars is a key part of
Pandora’s strategy to win more of the $15 billion market in
local radio advertising in the U.S. More than half of radio
listening occurs in automobiles.  Pandora, which is available in cars for devices operating
on Apple’s iOS and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, is available
in 23 automotive brands and 100 car models, Chief Marketing
Officer Simon Fleming-Wood said in an e-mailed statement. The
company expects one-third of all new cars sold in the U.S. this
year will have Pandora installed, he said.  ‘Strong Position’  “The connected car has been a core part of Pandora’s
strategy for many years and we have a strong position in the
market,” Fleming-Wood said. “This kind of broad availability
gives us unmatched listenership and we are confident in our
competitive position in the automotive space.”  While Apple’s built-in voice controls, called Eyes Free
Siri, will navigate to any application, it defaults to its own
programs when a user makes a music request, Greenfield wrote.  “Apple is clearly favoring their native music app with
radio based commands,” Greenfield said. “If you were in
Pandora and used Siri with the command ‘play Jazz Radio’ it
would literally stop Pandora, open up iTunes Radio and starts
playing the iTunes Radio Jazz station.”  Greenfield said he expects Google to take a similar
approach to Apple in marrying hardware and software design when
it debuts a YouTube music service in the year ahead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  