-- Pentagon Builds Afghanistan Headquarters as Troops Leave
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-07-10T16:40:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/pentagon-builds-afghanistan-headquarters-as-troops-leave.html
The U.S. military is putting
finishing touches on a $34 million regional headquarters in
 Afghanistan  that may never be used as American troops pack up to
come home.  The 64,000-square-foot command headquarters in Helmand
province has a war room, a briefing theater and enough office
space for 1,500 people, if there were any staying long enough to
occupy it, according to a letter to the Pentagon from the
special inspector general for Afghanistan reconstruction.  “It appears to be the best constructed building I have
seen in my travels in Afghanistan,” wrote John Sopko, who
serves as the government watchdog over military construction
projects in the war-torn country. “Unfortunately, it is unused,
unoccupied, and presumably will never be used for its intended
purpose.”  The unused building is the latest among examples of defense
mismanagement cited by Sopko in regular reports as years-long
construction projects struggled to keep pace with shifting war
plans. The Helmand command center, designed to support a surge
of troops in 2009, risks becoming what Sopko called “a ‘white
elephant’ to the Afghan government” as the 61,000 U.S. combat
troops still in Afghanistan prepare to head home by the end of
next year.  Why construction wasn’t halted remains a mystery.  As early as May 2010, Marine commanders in Afghanistan
determined there was no need for the building, Sopko said in his
letter. Yet the military issued a task order to begin
construction in February 2011 and took ownership of the building
in November 2012, he said.  Communications Equipment  While construction is complete, the building would still
need communications equipment that may cost $3 million to obtain
and install, he said.  “I am deeply troubled that the military may have spent
taxpayer funds on a construction project that should have been
stopped,” Sopko said.  The Pentagon had no immediate reaction. “It’s going to
take us a little bit of time to review the findings,” spokesman
George Little said today.  Now the military must decide whether to tear down the
building or turn it over to the Afghans, Sopko said.  “Both alternatives for how to resolve this issue are
troubling -- destroying a never-occupied and never-used building
or turning over what may be a ‘white elephant’ to the Afghan
government that it may not have the capacity to sustain,” Sopko
said.  The building’s heating, ventilation and air conditioning
systems are “expensive to operate and maintain,” he said.  No Answers  Sopko said he couldn’t get answers on why construction
proceeded because of “the regular rotation of military and
civilian personnel” in and out of the country.  He has given the Pentagon until July 25 to answer questions
about the project.  While the fighting in Afghanistan continues, the U.S. is
mounting what may become a $7 billion effort to withdraw most of
its forces from Afghanistan. It will require sending Humvees,
helicopters, drones and 12 1/2-ton mine-resistant vehicles home
by rail and truck networks stretching from Karachi to ports in
the Baltic Sea. Much of the equipment that’s not needed for
further use will be destroyed.  The Obama administration said this week that no decision
has been made on whether to keep some U.S. forces in the country
after 2014 for limited missions such as training Afghan forces
and fighting terrorists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  