-- Perion Network Rallies on Conduit Sale Report: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-07-10T14:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/perion-network-rallies-on-conduit-sale-report-tel-aviv-mover.html
Perion Network Ltd. (PERI)  rallied the most
in more than six months in Tel Aviv on reports that toolbar-developer  Conduit  is in talks to buy the Israeli maker of
Internet products at a 46 percent premium.  The  shares  of Perion, which makes desktop programs for e-mail, photo-sharing and web security and has an advertising
revenue-sharing partnership with  Google Inc. (GOOG) , advanced as much
as 18 percent, the most since Jan. 8, and closed 12 percent
higher at 46.21 shekels in Tel Aviv. More than 623,000 shares
traded, about 39 times the three-month daily average.  Babylon Ltd. (BBYL)  gained 2.8 percent in above-average volume, as
Conduit’s reported valuation of Perion lifted the Or Yehuda,
Israel-based provider of Internet search services which also has
an advertising partnership with Google.  Conduit is in advanced talks to acquire Perion for $200
million in a deal that would take the form of a reverse takeover
and give Ness-Ziona, Israel-based Conduit a public listing,
TheMarker business newspaper reported today on its website,
without saying where it got the information. Chief Executive
Officer Josef Mandelbaum declined to comment on the report.
Perion’s market value after yesterday’s close in  Tel Aviv  was
499 million shekels ($137 million), according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The offer indicates that Perion was cheap and implies
Babylon is cheap as well,” Beni Dekel, an analyst at  Union Bank
of Israel Ltd. (UNON)  in Tel Aviv, said by phone today. “This shows
Israeli companies are interesting and we are likely to see more
of these kinds of deals.”  Shares Surge  Perion’s 2013 enterprise value to earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization - a valuation multiple used
to measure the value of a company - based on the reported deal
price is 7.5 times, Dekel said, compared with a EV/EBITDA of 5.6
times for Babylon.  Perion has surged 42 percent this year after the company
forecast revenue of at least $110 million for 2013, an increase
of 83 percent from 2012. The company is expected to generate
sales of $116 million this year, according to the median
estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Perion CEO
Mandelbaum forecast annual revenue of as much as $300 million in
2016 during an interview at Bloomberg’s  New York  offices on June
5.  Conduit, a maker of community toolbars and mobile
applications that also has offices in  California , was founded in
2005. An investment fund advised by JPMorgan & Chase Asset
Management acquired a 7 percent stake in the company for $100
million, valuing it at $1.3 billion, Conduit said in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  