-- Pharmstandard Sees Bever Deal, OTC Spinoff Complete by Year End
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-07-10T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/pharmstandard-sees-bever-deal-otc-spinoff-complete-by-year-end.html
OAO Pharmstandard,  Russia ’s biggest
pharmaceutical company, said it plans to complete the purchase
of Bever Pharmaceutical Pte Ltd. by the end of the year and fold
the company into its spun-off over-the-counter drugs unit.  Bever, based in  Singapore , gained the rights this year to
sell active pharmaceutical ingredients for Pharmstandard’s anti-flu medicine Arbidol and tranquilizer Aphobazolum,
Pharmstandard’s Chief Executive Officer Igor Krylov said on a
conference call yesterday. Bever, which didn’t have any sales
last year, is affiliated with one of Pharmstandard’s board
members, Krylov said. He didn’t disclose which board member.  Krylov’s comments follow a July 8 shakeup in which
Pharmstandard said it had offered $630 million for Bever,
without disclosing why, and announced the spin off of its own
branded, non-prescription drugs business. Pharmstandard had been
considering selling that unit, people with knowledge of the
matter said last month.  Buying Bever and folding it into the spinoff will make the
over-the-counter unit more profitable, Krylov said, predicting
it may then become “attractive” to global buyers. The spun-off
company will be publicly listed, he said. Pharmstandard plans a
shareholder meeting on Aug. 17 to vote on the purchase,
according to a July 8 regulatory filing.  Pharmstandard’s Moscow-listed stock has lost 17 percent and
its  London  shares 33 percent in the two days since it announced
the plan and said it will offer to buy out shareholders who
don’t vote for the spinoff for 2,180 rubles a share, equivalent
to about $16.50 a GDR. That was a  discount  of 2.3 percent to the
July 8 closing price in Moscow and 18 percent in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  