-- Pharmacyclics Shares Surge on Drug Approval Application
-- B y   M a r y   C a m i l l e   I z l a r
-- 2013-07-10T16:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/pharmacyclics-shares-surge-on-drug-approval-application.html
Pharmacyclics Inc. (PCYC)  surged to its
highest value ever after filing for U.S. approval of a blood
cancer drug that is being developed with  Johnson & Johnson. (JNJ)   Pharmacyclics climbed 13 percent to $100.71 at 12:51 p.m.
New York time after reaching $102.05, the highest intraday price
since the shares began trading Oct. 25, 1995. The medicine was
submitted as a “breakthrough therapy,” which is designed to
speed approval, the company said in a statement today.  The filing asks the Food and Drug Administration to clear
the Sunnyvale, California-based company’s therapy, ibrutinib,
for treatment on two types of lymphoma. Pharmacyclics had said
it would submit the application by the end of the third quarter,
and seeking two indications was unexpected,  Michael King , an
analyst at JMP Group Inc. in New York, said in a research note.  “We predict the drug is on the market before the end of
this calendar year,” Michael Yee, an analyst with RBC Capital
Markets in San Francisco, said in a research note. Such an
approval would put the drug at least a year ahead of a possible
competitor from  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  and two years ahead of one
from  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) , he said.  FDA approval is being sought for ibrutinib as a therapy for
mantle cell lymphoma as well as chronic lymphomatic
leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma, an indication the analysts
said wasn’t anticipated yet. In February, the FDA gave the drug
“breakthrough” status for mantle cell.  Ibrutinib blocks an enzyme called Bruton’s tyrosine kinase
that aids certain cancers in spreading.  Johnson & Johnson, based in  New Brunswick , New Jersey,
gained less than 1 percent to $89.03.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Camille Izlar in New York at 
 mizlar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  