-- Piramal Has Finite Taste for Drug R&D as Deals Beckon
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-07-10T18:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/piramal-has-finite-taste-for-drug-r-d-as-deals-beckon.html
Ajay Piramal wants  Piramal
Enterprises Ltd. (PIEL)  to be a global maker of patented drugs. He’s
just not willing to spend an infinite amount to reach that goal.  Piramal Enterprises will decide over the next quarter
whether to begin a late-stage trial of the company’s most
advanced drug, P276, for a side effect from cancer treatments,
said Piramal, the Mumbai-based company’s chairman. Two other
medicines are in early trials targeting tumors. and the company
is in talks with potential partners to develop diabetes
treatments, he said in an interview in his London apartment
overlooking Green Park.  Since selling a branded-generic drug business to  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT)  for $3.72 billion in 2010, the 57-year-old
billionaire has plowed money into pharmaceutical research.
Piramal said he’s also spreading his bets, investing in  Vodafone
Group Plc’s (VOD)  Indian mobile-phone unit and lending company Shriram
Transport Finance Ltd. because investors won’t reward him for
taking on the risk of  drug development .  “There’s a finite amount of money we can put in it,”
Piramal said of drug research. “Hopefully it will get us
through. There’s no valuation for a company doing drug
discovery. It’s only looked upon as a cost on the revenue
line.”  Trial Data  Piramal Enterprises will review mid-stage trial data and
speak with regulatory authorities before deciding the fate of
P276, he said. The drug is being tested as a treatment for
mucositis, a painful inflammation of the mucous membranes lining
the gastrintestinal track caused by chemotherapy and radiation.
The compound also has been tested in pancreatic and head and
neck cancers.  Piramal has narrowed the focus of the company’s drug
 research  to cancer and diabetes and has dropped infectious
diseases.  Piramal Enterprises provides contract manufacturing for
drug companies, sells consumer-health products in India and
makes inhaled anesthetics used in hospitals and laboratory
diagnostics. The company bought U.S. health-care research
provider Decision Resources Group LLC last year for $635 million
to tap demand for information on the drug market.  To generate revenue for drugmaking, he is in talks with big
pharmaceutical companies for which he already manufactures drugs
to form partnerships that “go beyond one-off deals,” Piramal
said.  And the executive is looking to build his company’s over-the-counter health-care business. He said he gets offers “every
day” from companies interested in buying the business, yet
doesn’t want to sell because it’s growing at 25 percent a year
and keeps his foot in  India ’s burgeoning consumer-health trade.  Vodafone Stake  Piramal will sell the stake in Vodafone’s Indian unit next
year as planned because it was intended to be a “short-term to
medium-term investment,” he said. The company paid $1.21
billion for an 11 percent stake, which he expects will reap a
return of between 17 percent and 20 percent. In the longer term,
Piramal plans to add to the 10 percent stake in Shriram acquired
in May.  Piramal is scouting further acquisitions in finance, real
estate and information management, he said.  Piramal Enterprises shares have risen 9.2 percent  this
year , giving the company a market value of 98.3 billion rupees
($1.65 billion). India’s benchmark Sensex Index is down 0.7
percent.  Few Indian drugmakers have pursued the patented route,
favoring generics and contract manufacturing. Piramal said it’s
hard for shareholders in India to understand why he has decided
to take the risker path of drug discovery instead of
distributing profit from the Abbott sale as a dividend and
continuing to be a contract manufacturer.  “We didn’t put all our eggs into pharmaceuticals because
drug discovery is too risky for a company like ours,” he said.
“And we felt confident we could create value by going into new
areas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  