-- President Urges Portugal Salvation Pact Weakening Coalition Plan
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2013-07-11T12:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/portuguese-president-says-early-elections-not-desirable-for-now.html
President Anibal Cavaco Silva urged
Portugal’s ruling parties to broker a deal with the main
opposition to see out its European bailout program, raising
doubts about a patched-up coalition agreement.  Cavaco Silva called on Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho ’s
Social Democrats to bring the Socialist opposition into a
broader agreement for “national salvation” to steer the
country through June next year and then call an early election.
He didn’t comment on the premier’s plan to hand control of
economic policy to his junior coalition partner.  “To start a new electoral process now could mean going
backward on what we have achieved,” Cavaco Silva said in a
televised speech last night. “The signs of economic recovery
that have recently emerged would regress, and investment, which
is so decisive for a return to growth and job creation, would
continue to be delayed.”  The two parties in government last week settled a split
over budget policy with Coelho offering Foreign Minister Paulo
Portas responsibility for talks relating to the bailout and the
post of vice premier. The disagreement, which followed the
resignation of Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar, raised the specter
of a second bailout for Portugal and sent bond yields to a
seven-month high.  “In the short term the president’s decision should
increase uncertainty,” Tiago Veiga Anjos, an analyst at Banco
BPI SA in Oporto, said today in a research note. “This
uncertainty should negatively affect the stock market and
Portugal’s sovereign yields.”  Bonds Fall  The country’s 10-year bond yield rose 10 basis points to
6.87 percent at 12:28 p.m. in  London , up from 6.45 percent on
June 28, the last trading day before Gaspar’s July 1
resignation. The  yield  breached 8 percent last week after the
rift in the coalition emerged. The country pays 3.2 percent on
its bailout loans.  Portugal’s  PSI-20 (PSI20)  benchmark stock index dropped 1.7
percent. Most stocks, bonds and commodities rose around the
world today after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
the U.S. economy will continue to need stimulus measures.  Cavaco Silva called on Coelho and Portas to reach an
agreement with the main opposition Socialist Party quickly to
allow Portugal to complete its aid program and ensure that the
country’s  debt  will be sustainable. He said he wanted to see a
new government elected only after the aid program is completed.  “It’s essential to rule out the risk of a return to the
situation we’re currently experiencing,” said the president.
The government now has “full powers,” he added.  Elections  “The start of the process that leads to elections should
coincide with the end of the financial aid program” in June
2014, said Cavaco Silva, who has the power to dissolve
parliament. Coelho’s Social Democrats and the conservative CDS
party led by Portas have a majority in parliament and their term
ends in 2015.  Socialist Party leader Antonio Jose Seguro has called for a
renegotiation of the terms of the existing aid package, though
his party has voted alongside the governing coalition on key
policy decisions including the European Stability Mechanism
treaty, the fiscal compact, and the country’s budget framework
law. The Socialists, who led Coelho’s Social Democrats by 14
percentage points in a poll last month, on July 9 repeated a
call for early elections.  Eighth Review  The eighth review of Portugal’s progress on meeting terms
of the 78 billion-euro ($102 billion) aid program is due to
start July 15, the Finance Ministry said last month. The
government has started raising cash to finance its 2014 deficit
after covering its needs for this year, Gaspar said in May when
he was still finance minister.  “The next nine months of the Portuguese economy are
critical for the following phase,” Bank of Portugal Governor
Carlos Costa said yesterday. “It’s during these next nine
months that we will have to assure and confirm the credibility
of our commitments and the evolution of our economy and our
budget situation.”  On March 15, the government announced less ambitious
targets for narrowing its budget  deficit  as it forecast the
economy will shrink twice as much as previously estimated this
year. Portugal targets a deficit of 5.5 percent of gross
domestic product in 2013, 4 percent in 2014 and below the EU’s 3
percent limit in 2015, when it aims for a 2.5 percent gap. It
forecasts  debt  will peak at 123.7 percent of GDP in 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  