-- Quebec Probes Explosion for Crime as Railroad Criticized
-- B y   L a u r e n   S   M u r p h y ,   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-07-10T17:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/quebec-police-probe-crime-negligence-as-rail-ceo-arrives.html
Police are investigating possible
crimes in Canada’s worst rail disaster in 27 years as  Quebec 
Premier Pauline Marois criticized the railway’s response to the
crash that left as many as 60 people dead or missing.  Marois, who said she will visit the town of Lac-Megantic in
southeastern Quebec tomorrow, said there were “serious gaps”
in the communications response from  Montreal , Maine & Atlantic
Railway Ltd. The fact that Edward Burkhardt, chief executive
officer of closely held Rail World Inc. which owns the railway,
is only arriving in Lac-Megantic today is wrong, she told
reporters today in  Quebec City .  “I find the attitude of the CEO to be deplorable,” she
said.  The death toll from the explosion that tore through the
downtown of Lac-Megantic in the early morning of July 6 stands
at 15 and about 45 others are missing, Surete du Quebec
provincial police Chief Inspector Michel Forget told reporters
in Lac-Megantic today. Police have not released a list of the
missing amid reports that a bulletin with names has been
distributed, he said.  “The numbers will fluctuate,” Forget said, when asked if
the estimates of dead and missing may go higher than 60. “It
will go up or it will go down.”  An unmanned Montreal, Maine & Atlantic train carrying 72
carloads of crude oil crashed about 250 kilometers (155 miles)
east of Montreal. It’s the country’s most lethal rail disaster
since a  collision  between a  Canadian National Railway (CNR)  freight
train and a VIA Rail passenger train near Hinton,  Alberta  killed
23 people in February 1986.  Criminal Acts  “There are pieces that might lead us to believe that there
are certain facts that might come to criminal acts,”  Forget
said yesterday. “Criminal negligence might be one of the leads
that we are looking at.”  No criminal charges have been laid and police are not
considering terrorism as a factor, Forget said today. If charges
are laid, they will be done by federal prosecutors, he said.  As police and rail safety authorities accelerated their
investigation into how the train moved from its parking spot
outside the neighboring town of Nantes before barreling into
Lac-Megantic, incinerating about 30 buildings, the chief
executive officer of the railway said his company would no
longer leave trains unattended overnight.  New Procedures  “We’re going to tighten up our procedures,” Burkhardt,
74, CEO of Rail World Inc., which owns Montreal, Maine &
Atlantic, said in an interview yesterday in his office in
 Chicago . “I expect there will be a push to tighten up
regulation as well. I support that.”  Burkhardt, who is also chairman of Montreal, Maine &
Atlantic, said he was reluctantly accepting police protection
for a visit to Lac-Megantic, near the Maine border today.  “I’ve gotten a whole bunch of hate mail,” he said. “‘Rot
in hell.’ ‘Don’t come up here, we’re waiting for you.’”  Burkhardt isn’t aware of any criminal probe into the
railroad or its employees, Cathy Aldano, the company’s vice
president of research and administration, said by telephone last
night.  Quebec police spokesman Forget declined to say whether they
have met or plan to meet with Burkhardt today.  Burkhardt had said firefighters responding to a fire on the
train’s locomotive after the engineer left for the night may
have switched it off, causing the air brakes to release.  Firefighter Response  Firefighters yesterday rejected any suggestion they may
have inadvertently caused the train to break free.  “Nothing the firefighters did could have put the train in
jeopardy,” Nantes Fire Chief Patrick Lambert said on CBC TV.
Municipal employees, including firefighters, have been asked not
to speak to media, a spokeswoman for Nantes municipal civil
security said, who declined to give her name.  Burkhardt, speaking to reporters at Montreal’s airport last
night on his way to Lac-Megantic, said that while his company
has some responsibility for the crash, he denies it has full
responsibility.  Government officials at an Ottawa press conference
yesterday said it was “rare” for a railway to leave its train
unattended on a main line.  “It’s not something that you will see a lot,” said Luc
Bourdon, director general of rail safety with  Transport Canada .
“Usually the crew change happens on the spot. It’s pretty rare
that they’ll leave a train like that.”  Hand Brakes  Doing so didn’t violate any rules, he said.  Regulations specify engineers must apply sufficient
handbrakes to pass a “push-pull” test that ensures parked
trains don’t move,  Transport Canada ’s Bourdon said. There are no
specific rules for the number and amount of hand brakes used, he
said.  Investigators will examine the design of the 111-class cars
carrying the crude oil, as well as the operator’s procedures,
and whether the train should have been parked where it was,
Donald Ross, lead investigator with the federal Transportation
Safety Board, said yesterday.  Regular Inspections  Montreal, Maine & Atlantic underwent “regular”
inspections, Gerard McDonald, assistant deputy minister for
safety and security at Transport  Canada  told reporters at the
briefing in Ottawa.  Regulators have inspected 514 miles of the company’s
tracks, 37 crossings and 20 locomotives over the past year,
Bourdon, said.  Some residents are angry at what they see as a lack of
visibility by Montreal, Maine & Atlantic after the disaster.
“The company hasn’t spoken to the community directly,” said
Jean Duchesne, a Lac-Megantic resident, who was filming the
disaster site with his iPad. “They haven’t taken the time, this
isn’t good for them. It’s tragic, the downtown is ruined, the
water is ruined.”  Sophie Charest lost her aunt in the explosion and fire.
“My aunt has died,” Charest said, standing in front of the
shop where she works, just blocks away from where her aunt’s
lingerie store stood a few days ago. “We are sad and angry,”  Marois today announced C$60 million ($57 million) in aid
for the community, with immediate payments of C$1,000 to each
citizen affected by the disaster. Quebec will give C$25 million
in immediate aid to the local community, C$25 million to the
town to rebuild and create a C$10 million fund for local firms
to invest in new businesses.  “We are telling the citizens of Lac-Megantic, you can
count on us,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren S Murphy in Lac Megantic, Quebec at 
 lmurphy48@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  