-- Rail World Under Pressure to Take Responsibility in Crash
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a ,   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   L a u r e n   S   M u r p h y
-- 2013-07-11T15:50:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/rail-world-ceo-says-quebec-train-brakes-not-set-properly.html
Residents of the small  Quebec  town
where a train carrying crude crashed and killed as many as 50
people are calling on the head of the railway to take more
responsibility after he said an engineer failed to set the hand
brakes on the runaway train.  “It’s very questionable whether the hand brakes were
properly applied on this train,” Edward Burkhardt, chief
executive officer of Rail World Inc., owner of Montreal, Maine &
Atlantic Railway Ltd., told reporters yesterday. “As a matter
of fact, I’ll say they weren’t, otherwise we wouldn’t have had
this incident.”  Burkhardt paid his first visit to Lac-Megantic, Quebec four
days after an unmanned, 72-car oil train rolled from an
overnight parking spot into the center of town, where it jumped
the tracks, caught fire and incinerated about 30 buildings.  About 50 people, many of whom were at the Musi-Cafe bar
near the train tracks, are “probably dead,” said Chief
Inspector Michel Forget of the  Surete du Quebec  police. Twenty
bodies have been recovered, he said yesterday.  If 50 people are confirmed dead it would be the worst rail
disaster in  Canada  in more than 100 years. About 63 people were
killed in a derailment in Spanish River, Ontario in 1910,
according to the Canadian Disaster Database.  Burkhardt laid the blame for the crash on his own engineer
for failing to properly apply hand brakes on the rail cars when
they were parked in the nearby village of Nantes. He said his
company’s inspection indicated the brakes were applied on the
locomotives, but not on the rail cars.  Not True  Burkhardt said the train’s engineer told the company he had
applied 11 hand brakes. He didn’t name the engineer.  “We think he applied some hand brakes, the question is,
did he apply enough of them?” Burkhardt said.  “He’s told us
that he applied 11 hand brakes and our general feeling now is
that that is not true. Initially we took him at his word.”  The engineer on the train was Tom Harding of Farnham,
Quebec, according to Guy Farrell, assistant to the Quebec
director of the United Steelworkers Union. The union represents
75 MM&A workers. Harding has been suspended with pay, Farrell
said.  “He’s off work paid,” Farrell said in an interview today.
“He’s entitled to all services from the company.”  Calls to a Tom Harding in Farnham weren’t answered.  It was unprofessional for Burkhardt to blame his employee,
said Jean Saint Pierre, who runs a head-hunting company from
Lac-Megantic.  Cowboy Talk  “The only professional way to act is to say, ‘there’s an
enquiry, we will collaborate with the police and all those
guys,” Saint Pierre said. “Only a cowboy would say ‘‘Ok, I
decide my employee has done this or that.’’  Other residents called on Burkhardt and his company to take
financial responsibility for the disaster. ‘‘He’s the one who
says it costs too much and makes cuts to people manning the
train,’’ said Francois Dion, a former steel worker and resident
of the area. ‘‘He needs to pay the price.’’  Police are investigating a possible criminal act or
negligence. The Surete du Quebec told reporters yesterday they
questioned Burkhardt after he agreed to meet with investigators,
police spokesman Benoit Richard said, without providing details.
Quebec Premier Pauline Marois was scheduled to visit the town
today.  Railroad Veteran  Burkhardt, 74, a railroad industry veteran who has served
as Rail World’s CEO since forming it in 1999, was heckled by
locals as he answered reporters’ questions. He said in an
interview this week before leaving  Chicago , where Rail World is
based, that he had received death threats and ‘‘a whole bunch of
hate mail” since the incident. The center of town remains a
crime scene and is closed off. About 2,000 people, or a third of
the town near the Maine border, were forced to evacuate although
many have since returned home.  While leaving locomotives running overnight with no one
aboard is standard practice, Montreal Maine won’t do so again,
Burkhardt said in the interview. “We’re going to tighten up our
procedures,” he said. “I expect there will be a push to
tighten up regulation as well. I support that.”  Burkhardt said firefighters responding to a fire on the
train’s parked locomotive after the engineer left for the night
may have switched it off, causing the air brakes to release. He
told reporters in Lac-Megantic that a track foreman who boarded
the train with the firefighters wouldn’t have recognized the
significance of the engines being turned off because he isn’t
familiar with diesel locomotives.  War Zone  “Nothing the firefighters did could have put the train in
jeopardy,” Patrick Lambert, the fire chief in Nantes, where the
train was left, said in response on the CBC network.  Burkhardt, who said he planned to spend yesterday and today
in the town, said the scene “looks like a war zone,” echoing
comments by Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  during an
earlier visit. Burkhardt said he didn’t arrive in the town
earlier as he felt he could be more effective working from
Chicago and not distract emergency crews dealing with the
accident.  “I feel absolutely awful about this, I’m devastated,” he
said.  Asked how he would react if criminal charges are laid, “if
that’s the case, let the chips fall where they may,” he said.
“I can’t draw the line between carelessness and criminal
negligence.”  Accident Rates  Montreal Maine’s U.S. accident rates exceed the average for
commercial railroads operating in the country for at least the
past decade, according to data compiled by the Federal Railroad
Administration.  Rates have exceeded the national average in all except one
of the past 10 years, FRA data show. In 2006, when Montreal
Maine had 75.9 reported incidents per million train miles, the
highest in that span, the average for the 730 railroads
operating in the U.S. was 16.6.  Comparing Montreal Maine’s safety statistics to larger
railroads is unfair because a single accident has a
disproportionate effect for the smaller carrier, Burkhardt said.  Montreal Maine owns about 510 miles (821 kilometers) of
track in Maine and  Vermont  in the U.S. and Quebec and  New
Brunswick  in Canada, according to its website. That compares to
a 21,000-mile network for  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the largest railroad
operating primarily in the eastern U.S.  “We’ve had a steadily improving safety record there,” the
executive said in the interview. “It had always been an
emphasis.”  1996 Derailment  Burkhardt said the situation at Lac-Megantic differs from a
1996 derailment at another railroad he was running. He was chief
executive officer of  Wisconsin  Central Transportation Corp. when
a train carrying liquid petroleum gas and propane burst into
flames after jumping the tracks in Weyauwega, Wisconsin,
according to a U.S. National Transportation Safety Board report.
While no one was killed, 3,155 people had to be evacuated.  The NTSB blamed the crash in the town, about 193 kilometers
northwest of  Milwaukee , on improper track maintenance that led
to a broken rail. The Wisconsin Central workers in charge of
inspecting the track weren’t properly trained, the agency said.  “The circumstances were completely different,” Burkhardt
said. “Lac-Megantic was not an infrastructure problem at all.”  Mad as Hell  In Lac-Megantic, Burkhardt said he’s setting up a claims
office where its insurer will receive claims and begin to
process them immediately. He’s also working with the  Red Cross 
to ensure people who were forced to evacuate have proper
clothing, food and shelter before rebuilding begins.  “We have a lot of work to do with the people in this town
who are, frankly, mad as hell right now,” Burkhardt said.
“Understandably so.”  While residents said they were glad Burkhardt visited the
town, they’re still looking for more information about the
crash.  ’’Just give us a good answer, tell us the truth, we want to
know what really happened,’’ said Chantalle Pratte, 42-year-old
resident of the town.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marley DelDuchetto Kayden in Chicago at 
 mdelduchett2@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren S Murphy in Toronto at 
 lmurphy48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  