-- Real Madrid Prepares $60 Million Bid for Suarez: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-10T10:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/real-madrid-prepares-60-million-bid-for-suarez-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Suarez Options  Real Madrid is ready to offer Liverpool 40 million pounds
($60 million) for striker  Luis Suarez  after the Reds rejected
Arsenal’s 30 million-pound bid, the  Sun reported .  “My agent is in charge, he knows what I want,” the Sun
cited Suarez as saying. “It is good to know I am valued by
teams like Arsenal. Now there are two or three options and the
club knows.”  Benteke Favors Spurs  Tottenham Hotspur will have to break its transfer record
for the second time this offseason to sign Christian Benteke
from  Aston Villa , the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Villa isn’t interested in any player swaps as part of a
trade and will demand a cash-only deal, meaning Spurs will have
to spend more than the 17 million pounds it paid to sign
Paulinho from Corinthians of  Brazil , the newspaper added.  With Chelsea also interested in Benteke, the Belgian
striker favors a move to Tottenham because he would be a
guaranteed starter in a season that leads into the 2014  World
Cup , the  Daily Mail reported .  Laudrup Loyalty  Swansea manager Michael Laudrup, who was linked with a move
to Paris Saint-Germain and  Monaco  in the offseason, said he
rejected offers from other teams to stay at the Welsh club, the
 Daily Express reported .  “Yes, there were clubs that wanted me -- a couple of big
ones as well -- but I wanted to stay,” the Express cited
Laudrup as saying.  Nani to  Russia ?  Russian club Anzhi Makhachkala want to sign Manchester
United winger Nani, who is yet to receive assurances over his
future from new manager  David Moyes , the  Daily Mirror reported .  Nani, who will miss United’s pre-season tour of Asia and
Australia because of injury, may follow former Red Devils coach
Rene Muelensteen to Anzhi in a 12 million-pound deal, the
newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  