-- Treaty Disputes Roiled by Bias Charges
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a r t i n
-- 2013-07-10T19:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/treaty-disputes-roiled-by-bias-charges.html
When Swiss law professor Gabrielle Kaufmann-Kohler joined the board of UBS AG, she was sitting on
international tribunals judging whether Vivendi Universal SA and
another company whose shares UBS held were entitled to damages
from  Argentina  in investment disputes.  After Argentina learned about her UBS role in 2007, it
sought to have Kaufmann-Kohler removed from the tribunals and to
overturn a $105 million judgment in favor of Vivendi, the French
media company. She was one of three arbitrators in the cases.  Argentina’s efforts failed. That’s not unusual in treaty-based investor-state disputes, which are settled by arbitrators
governed by rules that critics say are too tolerant of potential
bias and make challenging arbitrators too difficult.  Kaufmann-Kohler declined to comment. She said at the time
that she wasn’t aware of any conflicts and wouldn’t allow her
UBS directorship to affect her impartiality. She still sits on
arbitration panels that are weighing damages against Argentina,
and is no longer on the UBS board.  Concerns about objectivity and accountability have prompted
calls for tougher ethical guidelines as caseloads have exploded.
The stakes are high, with some claims asking for more than $1
billion and some attacking sovereign nations’ laws and policies,
even court decisions.  “It is undeniable that the typical conditions that assure
impartiality in the judicial sphere are lacking in
arbitration,” said Sundaresh Menon, then  Singapore ’s attorney
general and now its chief justice, in a speech last year.  Power ‘Unprecedented’  Arbitrators can keep their day jobs, even as lawyers in the
kinds of cases they referee. Some write papers with opinions on
issues similar to those on which they pass judgment.  “The power they have over the purse strings of countries
is unprecedented,” said Gus Van Harten, an associate professor
at Osgoode Hall Law School in Toronto who recommends a court
with tenured jurists be created to erase “lingering blemishes”
left by the questions raised about arbitrators’ independence.
“They are kind of like the supreme court judges of the world.”  The disputes they resolve rise out of clauses in treaties
that allow foreign investors to challenge government actions
affecting their interests. The original idea was chiefly to give
a company recourse if its assets were nationalized.  Now the clauses are being interpreted to challenge public
policy, including  Germany ’s ban on nuclear power,  Australia ’s
attempts to limit smoking and  Canada ’s process for upholding
drug patents. A company controlled by U.S. billionaire Ira Rennert is demanding $800 million from  Peru  over what it claims
are onerous demands to clean up pollution from a smelter complex
in a town where children have elevated lead levels. Rennert’s
company has said it isn’t responsible for their ailments.  Superior System  Arbitrators have been coming under scrutiny as the treaty-based disputes have rapidly grown. The first case was in 1987,
and for the next 12 years the average number brought annually
was three. A  record  62 publicly disclosed actions were filed
last year, bringing the total to 480 since 2000, according to
the United Nations Commission on Trade and Development.  Treaty based investor-state arbitration has backers around
the world. A majority of the 3,000-plus investment pacts contain
arbitration clauses. Supporters, including the administration of
U.S. President  Barack Obama , portray it as superior to the old
way of settling differences: relying on local courts or
diplomats to hash it out.  The arbitrations could continue to multiply, as the U.S. is
negotiating trade pacts with the European Union and Pacific Rim
countries that are expected to include the clause.  Disclosing Conflicts  Investors won 70 percent of known cases last year,
according to the UN. Since 1987, states have won 42 percent of
the time, and investors 31 percent, with the rest settled.  Today most of the disputes are considered by three-member
tribunals under procedural rules issued by the World Bank or UN,
according to Luke Eric Peterson, publisher of the  Investment
Arbitration Reporter . While the  World Bank  makes some
information about cases public, most forums, including those
governed by UN rules, leave it up to the parties to decide
whether to disclose details, he said.  The warring sides pay the arbitrators -- who can earn
$3,000 a day or more, plus expenses -- and each picks one. The
third, who chairs the tribunal, is selected by mutual agreement
or an independent party.  There’s no one code for all tribunals. World Bank rules
say an arbitrator must be “relied upon to exercise independent
judgment,” and those issued by the UN say arbitrators should
disclose circumstances that might “give rise to justifiable
doubts” about their impartiality or independence.  Exclusive Club  The requirements aren’t exacting or demanding enough,
according to Van Harten, the law professor. “There’s too much
riding on the individual sense of integrity, he said. “We need
institutional safeguards like we have in courts.”  Hundreds of arbitrators are available for hire around the
world, some of them academics and former government officials,
most of them lawyers in private practice. For critics, the
exclusivity of that club is one of the main shortcomings.  Just 15 people -- all but one from the U.S., Canada or
Western Europe -- have served on 55 percent of known investor-state tribunals, according to a November 2012  report  by two
nonprofits, the Brussels-based Corporate Europe Observatory and
the Transnational Institute in Amsterdam. The report called
arbitrators “the epitome of a close-knit community.”  While only 6 percent of cases adjudicated to date under
World Bank rules have been against countries in Western Europe
and  North America , about 68 percent of panel members came from
those regions, according to data from the bank’s International
Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes. About three
quarters of those cases were treaty based investor-state
disputes, and the rest were over laws or contracts.  Lawyers’ Ties  Guido Santiago Tawil, a Buenos Aires lawyer who had worked
for years with attorneys at U.S. law firm King & Spalding LLP,
was picked by one of the firm’s clients in 2010 to sit on a
tribunal to decide whether  Venezuela  should pay the client for
property the government seized from it.  Venezuela’s lawyers objected to Tawil’s selection by
Universal Compression International Holdings, a Spanish
subsidiary of U.S. oil and gas services supplier  Exterran
Holdings Inc. (EXH)  They said that Tawil had recently worked with King
& Spalding as co-counsel on two major cases. They questioned
whether he could be impartial because of his ties to the U.S.
firm, noting that one of the attorneys arguing for the company
used to work for him. None of it disqualified Tawil.  Two Hats  Universal Compression had brought the case after Venezuela
expropriated foreign energy assets in a drive to bring the
economy under state control. The case was suspended last year
after Venezuela agreed to compensate the company.  Tawil said in an e-mail that the objection to his serving
on the panel didn’t have any grounds. He declined to elaborate.  What many critics -- and some arbitrators -- zero in on is
that they may wear two hats, as lawyers arguing cases and as
tribunal panelists deciding them.  “Has one ever seen a referee in a soccer game entering the
playing field” as a member of one of the teams, asked Brigitte
Stern, a French law professor, in a recent issue of the
 Arbitration Trends  newsletter. “This problem has not yet been
seriously dealt with by the investment arbitration community.”  Stern’s neutrality has been questioned as well, after
Venezuela selected her as an arbitrator in the Universal
Compression complaint.  Not Compatible  Even as Venezuela sought to disqualify Tawil, the company
objected to Stern because the country had picked her as an
arbitrator in three other previous cases; Venezuela had won two
of them, with the third not yet resolved. The challenge was
rejected. Stern didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Even as it ruled against Argentina’s attempt to unseat
Kaufmann-Kohler because of ties to UBS, a committee appointed by
the World Bank’s International Center for Settlement of
Investment Disputes mentioned the conflict created by
arbitrators’ varying roles.  “The positions of a director of such a bank, and that of
an international arbitrator, may not be compatible,” the ruling
said.  Argentina tried to remove Kaufmann-Kohler from other
tribunals as well as the Vivendi case; she wasn’t disqualified
in either. The companies prevailed, with Argentina ordered to
pay more than $200 million in one; damages haven’t been assessed
yet in two others.  ‘Idiotic’ Criticism  U.S. lawyer Stephen M. Schwebel was a co-counsel for
Vivendi in its Argentina complaint -- which was being
adjudicated at the same time as an action Dutch insurer Eureko
BV filed against  Poland  in which Schwebel was an arbitrator.  Both countries challenged his neutrality: He co-authored a
decision in favor of Eureko and against Poland while he was
working for Vivendi, and then cited the decision to bolster his
arguments for Vivendi in its case against Argentina.  Schwebel, former president of the UN’s International Court
of Justice, said attacks on the investor-state arbitration
system are being driven by anti-business academics and
activists, and that most conflict-of-interest allegations are
“flimsy or tactical.” He called those lodged against him,
which weren’t successful, “defamatory and idiotic.”  The decision he helped write in granting Eureko an award
against Poland “was in the public domain” and one of dozens of
arbitral rulings mentioned in pleadings, Schwebel said. “I
would have been lax in not citing the award.”  ‘Problematic’ Proceedings  According to World Bank data, of 63 proposals to disqualify
arbitrators to date, one has been upheld; 42 were rejected, and
in 16 instances the arbitrators resigned before rulings were
made. Two were withdrawn and two haven’t been decided.  In cases heard under World Bank rules, the two others on
the panel usually determine whether objections about a colleague
have merit. That’s “problematic” because “not only do they
know each other from that proceeding, but because it’s a small
club, they also know each other from the other proceedings they
have done together,” said Karel Daele, a London-based
arbitration attorney who wrote a 2012 book on challenges.  Daele recommends that a third party, rather than two
arbitrators, decide whether a challenge is valid. That’s how it
works under UN rule and at the  International Chamber of
Commerce ’s International Court of Arbitration, where Daele said
objections tend to have a higher success rate.  In arbitrations carried out under UN rules, the
suitability of at least 21 arbitrators has been challenged to
date, with six disqualified and three others agreeing to end
their conflicts so they could remain on the tribunal, according
to Daele, who compiled the statistics.  Peterson, the arbitration newsletter publisher, said
governments that include investor-state arbitration in treaties
could force higher ethical standards.  “Self-policing and peer review are not enough to eliminate
some of the key ethical problems,” he said.  Editors: Anne Reifenberg, Gary Putka
