-- Regulators See Dodd-Frank Substantially Complete by End of Year
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-07-10T22:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/regulators-see-dodd-frank-substantially-complete-by-end-of-year.html
Dodd-Frank Act measures designed to
prevent a repeat of the global credit crisis will be largely
complete by the end of this year, financial regulators plan to
tell lawmakers at a hearing today on the 2010 law.  “We expect to approach the point of substantial completion
of implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act,”  Mary Miller , the
Treasury Department’s undersecretary for domestic finance, said
in remarks prepared for the Senate Banking Committee. “That
does not mean we will be able to relax our guard.”  Miller, Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo , Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Martin Gruenberg  and
Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas Curry  have been called before
the Senate panel for a hearing on the status of the 2010
regulatory overhaul. The Fed, FDIC and OCC completed work this
week on bank capital rules and proposed a tougher leverage
requirement for eight of the largest lenders, including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp .  Tarullo said by the end of the year regulators should
complete implementation of a risk-based capital surcharge for
systemically important banks, a liquidity rule, and the Volcker
rule to ban proprietary trading by banks.  Tarullo also said he expects this year to complete the
 Federal Reserve ’s enhanced prudential standards for the
systemically important institutions it regulates with one
exception: standards governing the interconnectedness of
institutions. Instead, the Fed will coordinate the single-counterparty credit limit rule with a proposal being developed
by international regulators in the Basel Committee.  Nearing End  “As I hope is apparent from this review of progress on the
implementation of regulatory reforms, we are at the beginning of
the end of the rulemaking process for most of the major Dodd-Frank Act provisions,” Tarullo said in prepared testimony.  The capital rules sought by lawmakers and regulators in
response to the 2008 credit crisis “will strengthen our
nation’s financial system by reducing systemic risk,” Curry
said in his prepared testimony. The Volcker rule restrictions,
designed to reduce risk-taking by banks that benefit from
deposit insurance and discount borrowing, will be finished in
the “near term,” Curry said.  Gruenberg said that the FDIC wants a Volcker rule that
preserves “the ability of banking entities to perform important
underwriting and market-making functions, including the ability
to effectively carry out these functions in less-liquid
markets.”  Shadow Banking  Tarullo expressed concern over the risks posed by the non-bank financial sector, including money-market funds and the tri-party repurchase market.  Repurchase agreements , or repos, are a
form of collateralized borrowing in which the borrower sells the
lender a security with an agreement to buy it back at a later
date. The Fed has been seeking to strengthen the tri-party repo
market, which almost collapsed in 2008 amid
the demise of Bear Stearns Cos. and bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. during the financial crisis.  “A complete financial reform program must address
financial stability risks that emanate from the shadow banking
system,” Tarullo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 