-- Tribune to Spin Off Newspaper Business
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   M a d e l i n e   M c M a h o n
-- 2013-07-10T18:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/tribune-plans-to-spin-off-its-publishing-business.html
Tribune Co. (TRBAA) , publisher of the  Los
Angeles  Times, Chicago Tribune and Baltimore Sun, plans to spin
off its newspapers into a separate business, letting the company
focus on its more lucrative local television stations.  The proposal, announced today, would create a newspaper
company called Tribune Publishing Co. and a TV business named
Tribune Co. with 42 stations in 33 markets, mimicking the
breakup of  News Corp . in June. The move follows Tribune’s $2.73
billion deal to buy 19 stations this month from Local TV
Holdings LLC in the industry’s biggest transaction in six years.  In spinning off the newspaper business, Tribune is backing
away from seeking an immediate bidder for the operation. The
company, which emerged from bankruptcy at the end of 2012, had
hired advisers to evaluate interest from buyers, according to
people familiar with the process. Tribune’s publishing group was
valued at about $623 million in its bankruptcy filings last
year, $300 million lower than a January 2011 estimate.  “Publishing is declining -- you can see it in the
numbers,” said Matt Kaplan, an analyst at Imperial Capital LLC
in Los Angeles. Though newspapers are helping shore up revenue
by charging for Web access, they haven’t held up as well as
television stations in the  Internet era , he said. “People still
watch local TV for news.”  Tax Concerns  The spinoff proposal doesn’t preclude Tribune from selling
some or all of its newspapers before the transaction closes,
said a person with direct knowledge of the company’s thinking. A
buyer willing to pay a premium for one or more of the papers
could still negotiate a deal, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the deliberations are private. Even so,
the taxes on an outright sale of the publications make such a
deal less attractive, the person said. The spinoff, in contrast,
would be tax-free to its current shareholders, the company said.  Because it was considering a spinoff early on, Tribune
never entered into any negotiations with potential buyers and
didn’t open up its financial books to interested parties, said
the person.  Gary Weitman , a spokesman for Chicago-based Tribune,
declined to comment on the company’s spinoff strategy.  The proposed sale of Tribune’s newspapers drew protests in
May from union organizations, which were concerned that the
business would be sold to  Koch Industries , a closely held
company controlled by the billionaire Republican donors Charles
and  David Koch . Koch Industries had been cited among several
potential buyers -- a group that included News Corp., Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., Wrapports LLC and Freedom Communications Inc.,
people familiar with the negotiations said in March.  ‘Unsolicited Interest’  Tribune Chief Executive Officer Peter Liguori said in a
memo to employees in May that the company had received “a great
deal of unsolicited interest in our publishing businesses, which
says a lot about the strength of our brands.”  Berkshire Hathaway CEO  Warren Buffett , who has spent more
than $340 million acquiring community newspapers,  told  Tribune’s
Allentown Morning Call that he might be interested in buying
that publication.  News Corp., meanwhile, is in a position to make its own
newspaper acquisitions following its spinoff from the rest of
 Rupert Murdoch ’s media empire. The publishing company, which
retained the News Corp. name, was given a war chest of $2.6
billion in cash at the time of the split last month to help
foster the business.  Entertainment Coverage  Murdoch has  expressed interest  in the Los Angeles Times,
people familiar with matter said earlier this year. The
publication would add coverage of the entertainment business to
a stable of papers that includes the Wall Street Journal, the
 New York  Post and the U.K.’s Sun.  Belo Corp., which owned the Dallas Morning News and other
publications, is another company that cut its ties to the
newspaper industry. The company spun off its papers as A.H. Belo
Corp. in 2008 to let it focus on television. Gannett Co.,
publisher of  USA Today , agreed to buy Belo last month as part of
its own efforts to shore up its TV holdings.  Tribune expects to spend the next nine to 12 months
developing its separation plan for the board. When the
transaction is completed, each business will have its own
management and directors. Shares in the newspaper business will
be distributed to investors.  “Moving to separate our publishing and broadcasting assets
into two distinct companies will bring single-minded attention
to the journalistic standards, advertising partnerships and
digital prospects of our iconic newspapers, while also enabling
us to take advantage of the operational and strategic
opportunities created by the significant scale we are building
in broadcasting,” Liguori, a former executive at the  Fox
network , said in a statement today.  Local Strength  The Local TV deal this month will put Tribune in a better
position to seek higher licensing fees from cable companies such
as Comcast Corp. and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , which purchase the
rights to air local broadcasts. The company also owns
superstation WGN America and Tribune Studios, as well as
investments in real estate and websites such as CareerBuilder.  “The best way to actually create value for shareholders is
moving away from the publishing because it dilutes some
valuation that the broadcasting business would get,” said Hamed Khorsand, an analyst at BWS Financial in  Woodland Hills ,
 California . “It also gives them a vehicle where they can
separate the pension liability that’s still on the balance sheet
because of the publishing business.”  Makes Money  While sales at the newspaper unit are shrinking, it’s a
profitable business and boasts some of the highest-profile
publications in the U.S. In addition to the Los Angeles Times
and the  Chicago Tribune , its holdings include the Sun Sentinel,
Orlando Sentinel, Hartford Courant and Daily Press.  Tribune’s publishing segment posted $46.4 million in
operating profit in the first quarter. The business’s revenue
declined 3.2 percent to  $465.9 million .  “Pursuing the separation of our publishing and
broadcasting businesses will also allow us to maintain
flexibility as we continue considering all our strategic
alternatives for maximizing  shareholder value ,” Liguori said in
a separate memo to employees today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Madeline McMahon in New York at 
 mmcmahon26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  