-- Tropical Storm Watch Issued for Jamaica as Chantal Nears Island
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-07-10T16:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/tropical-storm-watch-issued-for-jamaica-as-chantal-nears-island.html
Tropical Storm Chantal has held
together as it moves deeper into the Caribbean Sea, possibly
threatening  Jamaica  overnight, according to the U.S.  National
Hurricane Center .  Jamaica issued a tropical storm watch as Chantal’s latest
forecast track takes it just east of the island before striking
Cuba tomorrow, the hurricane center said in an  advisory  at 11
a.m.  New York  time.  “Chantal or its remnants will move between eastern Cuba
and Jamaica tonight and emerge over the Florida Straits Thursday
night,” Lixion Avila, a senior hurricane specialist at the
center wrote in the advisory.  Overnight, Chantal lost strength and structure and
forecasters thought it may have fallen apart completely as it
made its way through the Caribbean. A U.S. Air Force Reserve
reconnaissance plane, known as a Hurricane Hunter, discovered
Chantal was still holding together about 335 miles (539
kilometers) east-southeast of Kingston, Jamaica.  Chantal’s top winds are steady at 45 miles per hour and the
storm is moving west at 29 mph, according to the advisory.  There is a chance Chantal may weaken to a tropical
depression or collapse in the next day. A depression is the
weakest form of tropical system, which includes a hurricane.  In addition to the watch posted for Jamaica, a tropical
storm warning is in effect for the entire coast of the  Dominican
Republic  and  Haiti , as well as the Turks and Caicos islands and
the southeastern Bahamas, the hurricane center said.  A watch is also in place for the central Bahamas.  A flash flood watch is in effect until 8 p.m. for  Puerto
Rico , including San Juan, were 1 to 2 inches of rain may fall,
according to the  National Weather Service .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  