-- Tropical Storm Chantal May Break Apart in Caribbean
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-07-10T15:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/tropical-storm-chantal-may-be-breaking-apart-in-caribbean-sea.html
(Corrects to note tropical storm warning issued for Haiti,
Turks and Caicos and the  Dominican Republic  in seventh
paragraph.)  Tropical Storm Chantal may be
falling apart in the Caribbean Sea south of the Dominican
Republic, according to the U.S.  National Hurricane Center .  A reconnaissance plane will fly into the storm later today
to see if it still has the structure and strength to be
classified a tropical storm, the Miami-based hurricane center
said in an  advisory  at 8 a.m.  New York  time.  “If the reconnaissance plane verifies that Chantal has
degenerated into a tropical wave all tropical cyclone watches
and warnings will be discontinued,” the center said in the
advisory.  Overnight, Chantal lost strength and structure as it made
its way through the Caribbean. Larger weather patterns also
pushed its projected track further to the west, taking away from
a direct strike on the Dominican Republic and potentially
sending it into Cuba tomorrow.  A  hurricane watch  that had been posted for the Dominican
Republic when forecasters believed Chantal’s winds would reach
70 miles (113 kilometers) per hour was dropped earlier today.
The storm’s top winds are currently 45 mph and they aren’t
expected to get stronger through the next five days, according
to the hurricane center.  At 8 a.m., Chantal was about 155 miles south-southwest of
 Santo Domingo , Dominican Republic, moving west at 29 mph, the
advisory showed.  A tropical storm warning is in effect for the entire coast
of the Dominican Republic and Haiti, as well as the Turks and
Caicos islands and the southeastern Bahamas, the hurricane
center said.  A watch has been issued for the central Bahamas.  Chantal may bring 3 to 6 inches of rain across  Puerto Rico ,
the  U.S. Virgin Islands , the Dominican Republic, Haiti and the
southeastern Bahamas, according to the center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  