-- Rothschild Rails Against Bumi’s Bakrie Exit Plan as ‘Stitch-Up’
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-07-10T17:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/rothschild-rails-against-bumi-s-bakrie-exit-plan-as-stitch-up-.html
Nathaniel Rothschild , the financier
who co-founded  Bumi Plc (BUMI) , has vowed to fight a deal struck by the
Indonesian coal producer’s two biggest shareholders giving
Chairman Samin Tan control of almost half the company.  Bumi, which Rothschild established with the Bakrie Group in
2011, yesterday announced a plan valued at more than $500
million that would see it sever ties with the Indonesian family.
The proposal, revised from an October deal, would result in Tan
doubling his holding to 47.6 percent.  “This is another choreographed stitch-up between the
Bakries and Samin Tan,” Rothschild, owner of 14.8 percent of
London-based Bumi, said yesterday in a phone interview. The
October plan “is a far better deal for minority shareholders.
We don’t want the new proposal, we want the original proposal.”  Bumi has been at the heart of a battle for control between
Rothschild, scion of a centuries-old British banking dynasty,
and the Bakries, one of  Indonesia ’s wealthiest families. Both
made rival proposals last year to unwind the $3 billion deal
that brought them together in 2011. Tan said last month he has
lost about $800 million on the value of his January 2012
purchase of 23.8 percent of Bumi from the Bakries for $1
billion.  Tan last week approached the Bakries, who own a palm oil-to-property empire founded in Sumatra in 1942, with a cash
offer, the Bakrie Group said yesterday, without giving the
terms. The Bakries have accepted the offer with conditions, and
said “a total cash alternative adds weight to the unwinding
process, and we hope minority shareholders will share this
view.” Tan couldn’t be reached for comment yesterday.  General Offer  A condition of a purchase by Tan’s PT Borneo Lumbung Energi
& Metal of the Bakries’ stake is that the London-based company’s
independent shareholders waive the requirement for Borneo
Lumbung to make a general offer, Bumi said yesterday. An
independent board committee will assess the offer, it said.  “If you offer all shareholders the opportunity to buy
those shares on the same terms, then I suppose that will be one
way around it,” said Cato Stonex, a partner at Taube Hodson
Stonex Partners LLP, which owns 2.2 percent of Bumi. “It is
unlikely that they are going to get an exemption from making a
full bid and to be able to dilute us all at the bottom.”  The plan Bumi and the Bakries put forward in October
included a share swap resulting in the Bakries’ shares in the
London-listed company being canceled. Talks continue and the
“economic terms remain consistent” with the original plan,
Bumi said.  More Delays  “This is all likely to only further delay the separation
which has now been in the works for more than nine months and is
unlikely to be resolved anytime soon,” Nomura International Plc
analysts Matthew Kates and Ashraf Khan wrote in a note,
referring to Tan’s proposed purchase of the Bakrie stake.  Rothschild, 41, yesterday proposed that the Bakries’ Bumi
stake be offered to existing shareholders, rather than sold to
Tan who could then underwrite the offer and be free to buy any
stock not taken up. The announced proposal deprives investors of
upside “just when thermal coal fundamentals are starting to
improve,” Rothschild’s NR Investments Ltd. said in a statement.  A separation deal would mark the end of an almost two-year
affiliation with the Bakries who would retain control of PT  Bumi
Resources (BUMI) , Indonesia’s biggest exporter of power station coal.
The deal that brought the family to London started to sour last
year amid board infighting, a slump in coal prices and financial
probes in the U.K. and Indonesia.  Twin Investigations  The stock slumped 69 percent in London trading last year
and has been suspended since April as Bumi continued an
investigation into $201 million of missing funds at its other
coal investment, PT Berau Coal Energy.  Bumi, noting recent press reports, yesterday said it is
near an agreement to sell 29.2 percent of Bumi Resources to the
Bakries as part a separation plan. The stake would be sold in
two parts for a total of $508 million, people familiar with the
matter told Bloomberg this week. Bumi is considering returning
the funds to its shareholders as a special dividend, one of the
people said.  “The board remains committed to delivering the separation
transaction to shareholders on a value-accretive basis,” Bumi
said yesterday.  Bumi’s stock has been halted from trading in  London  since
April 19, and talks with the U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority
to end the suspension have focused on bolstering “internal
systems and controls,” the company said June 21. The stock last
closed at 259.3 pence on April 19, giving Bumi a market value of
625 million pounds.  “It would be virtually impossible for them to recommend a
separation transaction to shareholders that is so clearly
inferior to the one the very same independents were touting only
weeks before,” Rothschild said of the independent Bumi board
committee. “The minority investors can block it, should block
it and demand a transaction that we thought was fixed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  