-- Rupee Forwards Rise a Second Day as Regulators Curb Speculation
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-07-10T11:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/rupee-forwards-rise-a-2nd-day-extending-rebound-from-record-low.html
India ’s onshore rupee forwards rose
for a second day, extending a rebound from record lows, after
policy makers took steps to curb speculation. The spot rate
ended stronger after fluctuating between gains and losses.  The Reserve Bank of India barred banks from proprietary
trading in currency futures and exchange-traded options,
according to a July 8 statement on its website. The Securities
and Exchange Board of India said separately it will raise margin
requirements and cap open positions in such contracts. The RBI
also asked Indian oil refiners, the largest buyers of foreign
currency, to purchase dollars only from the  State Bank of India (SBIN) ,
the nation’s biggest lender, CNBC-TV18 television channel
reported yesterday, citing people it didn’t identify.  The regulators’ measures “may provide a temporary reprieve
for the rupee and could see a pullback in the dollar-rupee
exchange rate,” Charlie Lay, an economist at Commerzbank AG in
 Singapore , wrote in a research report today. “Uncertainty over
the rupee remains high, but on balance we see the rupee
strengthening against other Asian currencies from current
levels.”  Three-month onshore rupee forwards advanced 0.5 percent to
60.97 per dollar in Mumbai, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
They rose 0.9 percent yesterday, the most this month, after
touching an all-time low of 62.09 on July 8. Offshore non-deliverable contracts gained 0.6 percent to 61.02. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  The rupee advanced 0.8 percent to 59.6550 per dollar in the
spot market, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. It sank to an unprecedented 61.2125 on July 8. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
exchange rate used to price options, fell 30 basis points, or
0.30 percentage point, to 12.91 percent.  Bond Purchases  Relative stability in the rupee’s exchange rate following
regulatory measures to rein in speculation may prompt the
central bank to resume monetary easing, stabilizing the bond
market and attracting buyers, Commerzbank’s Lay wrote.  Global funds were net  buyers  of rupee debt on July 8 for
the first time in 14 days, exchange data show. Overseas
investors have cut holdings of local bonds by $7.9 billion since
May 22, when the Federal Reserve signaled it may pare stimulus.  The Indian currency should stabilize between 58 per dollar
and 61 in the “near term,” Lay predicts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  