-- HSBC French Clients Had $5 Billion in Swiss Unit, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-07-10T15:59:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/hsbc-french-clients-had-5-billion-in-swiss-unit-lawmaker-says.html
French clients of  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
had as much as $5 billion invested in the bank’s Swiss unit
between November 2005 and February 2007 and about a quarter of
the amount was repatriated by tax authorities, according to a
lawmaker’s report.  France  collected 186 million euros ($238 million) in taxes
by mid-June from the “regularization” of 950 million euros in
offshore holdings, French parliament member Christian Eckert
said at a news conference in Paris today. Eckert said he
investigated the accounts of 2,932 clients at London-based
HSBC’s Swiss unit, including the names of 169 people classified
as HSBC employees “linked to an address in France” who may
have helped with  tax evasion .  “The HSBC affair is an example of some banks’ practices
deliberately helping their clients defraud the tax
authorities,” Eckert said. The list included some accounts of
HSBC staff with balances exceeding $100 million, he said.  “I doubt strongly that it is their personal wealth,”
Eckert said. “One might think that they could be figureheads”
used to protect clients’ privacy, he said.  Eckert said his findings were based partly on data provided
by Herve Falciani, a former Geneva-based HSBC software
technician accused by the bank of stealing data.  HSBC will study Eckert’s report, though won’t comment on
its content because it’s not clear which data in the document
was stolen, Medard Schoenmaeckers, a Zurich-based spokesman for
HSBC in Geneva, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Falciani said in April that HSBC’s Swiss unit was an “open
door” for  money laundering  because managers failed to exercise
controls. In May, a Spanish court rejected a request to
extradite Falciani to  Switzerland . HSBC said it became aware in
2008 that Falciani had stolen details on 24,000 accounts at the
Swiss bank.  Falciani cooperated with French investigators, who then
used the data to search for tax dodgers and shared the
information with Italian, Spanish and British prosecutors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  