-- Schiff Hardin, Arnold & Porter, Gibson: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-07-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/schiff-hardin-arnold-porter-gibson-business-of-law.html
Schiff Hardin LLP acquired 11-lawyer
 New York  law firm  Mazur Carp & Rubin , which specializes in
construction law and trusts and estates matters.  “The strategic value of this combination for both firms is
very clear,” Robert H. Riley, chairman of Schiff Hardin, said
in a statement. “The Mazur Carp & Rubin lawyers add strength to
two of our firm’s core competencies, and Schiff Hardin provides
them with the resources and geographic reach to grow their
practices in unprecedented ways.”  Of the Mazur Carp attorneys who joined Schiff Hardin July
1, eight are partners, two are associates and one is counsel.
Seven of the lawyers practice in trusts and estates; four focus
on construction law.  Schiff Hardin now has 17 dedicated construction law
attorneys, including Sayward “Woody” Mazur, who co-founded
Mazur Carp.  “The timing of this combination couldn’t be better,”
Kenneth M. Roberts, leader of Schiff Hardin’s construction group
who facilitated the combination, said in a statement. “ New York
City  is the first city to return to major capital expansion
projects since the financial crisis, with many new, major
projects in higher education, health care, and transportation
infrastructure under way and in the pipeline. These critical
projects require smart and steady navigation of the law and
regulations to get done on time and on budget.”  With the merger, Schiff Hardin’s private clients, trusts
and estates group expands to nearly 30 lawyers, including Mazur
Carp co-founder Gerald I. “Jerry” Carp, who has more than 45
years of experience in New York Surrogate’s Court, the firm
said.  This is Schiff’s second combination this year. The firm
joined with Washington-based 10-lawyer firm Bruder Gentile &
Marcoux LLP in January.  Schiff Hardin has almost 400 attorneys at seven U.S.
offices.  Deals  Kroger Agrees to Buy Grocer Harris Teeter for $2.5 Billion  Arnold & Porter  LLP advised  Kroger Co. (KR) , the largest U.S.
grocery-store chain, on its agreement to buy  Harris Teeter
Supermarkets Inc. (HTSI)  for $2.5 billion in cash to bolster its
presence in the southeastern part of the country. McGuireWoods
LLP advised Harris Teeter.  The lead Arnold & Porter attorneys for Kroger are  Steven Kaplan  and Paul D. Freshour. In addition, the firm’s legal team
included partners Michael B. Bernstein, antitrust; Cynthia Mann,
tax; and Edward E. Bintz, compensation and benefits.  McGuireWoods partners Harrison Marshall, Chris Scheurer and
Rick Viola served as the lead attorneys for Harris Teeter in the
deal.  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP is representing JP Morgan,
financial adviser to Harris Tweeter, in its $3 billion merger
with Kroger. Michael Aiello, head of Weil’s corporate
department, handled the deal.  The offer of $49.38 a share is 34 percent more than Harris
Teeter’s closing price on Jan. 18, the day of the first media
report that the chain was evaluating strategic alternatives,
according to a statement yesterday.  The buyout gives Kroger a chain that had  revenue  of $4.54
billion last year and 212 stores in states including North
Carolina,  Virginia  and South Carolina. Kroger, which will
finance the transaction with debt, said the combination will
bring annual savings of $40 million to $60 million in the next
three to four years.  For more, click here.  Moves  Gibson Dunn Adds Former Hogan Lovells Energy Partner Brad Roach  In Singapore, Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP hired Brad Roach,
formerly  Hogan Lovells  LLP’s head of the oil and gas practice in
 Southeast Asia . Roach, a partner, will continue his energy,
infrastructure and project finance practice at Gibson Dunn.  “Energy is a key area for the firm, and we have been
steadily growing our global capacity,” Ken Doran, chairman and
managing partner of Gibson Dunn, said in a statement. “Brad is
extremely well known in  Asia  for the depth and range of his
experience in the energy and infrastructure sector.”  Roach advises developers of energy and infrastructure
projects, with an emphasis on upstream and downstream sectors of
the  petroleum industry , the firm said. He also advises companies
on the acquisition and disposal of major energy assets,
including  power plants  and petrochemical facilities.  His clients include PT Medco Energi Internasional Tbk.,
Murphy Oil Corporation, Talisman Energy, Mitra Energy, LNG Japan
Corporation, Salamander Energy, and PT Saka Energi Indonesia.  Gibson Dunn  has more than 1,100 lawyers at 18 offices in
the Americas,  Europe  and Asia.  Vinson & Elkins Adds Finance Lawyer from Debevoise in New York  David Wicklund joins Vinson & Elkins LLP’s finance practice
group as a partner in New York. He was previously at Debevoise &
Plimpton LLP.  Wicklund has experience in acquisition finance and  capital
markets  high yield offerings, representing private equity
sponsors, their portfolio companies and other public and private
issuers and borrowers -- both investment grade and non-investment grade -- in connection with domestic and cross-border
bank financings and bond offerings, the firm said in a
statement.  “With his reputation for delivering outstanding legal
advice in acquisition finance and high yield, David adds
immediate value to our broad client base,” V&E managing partner
Scott Wulfe. “His skill set is a great fit with the firm’s
strategic go said in a statement.  Vinson & Elkins has more than 700 lawyers at 16 offices in
the U.S., London, the  Middle East  and Asia.  McDermott Adds Contentious Trust Lawyer in London  McDermott Will & Emery LLP announced that Ziva Robertson,
formerly of Withers LLP, has joined the firm as a partner in the
international private client practice group in London.  Robertson specializes in complex cross-jurisdictional trust
issues advising trustees, beneficiaries, settlers and protectors
on contentious and non-contentious cases, the firm said.  ‘‘Being able to offer the contentious piece to our clients
in addition to the trust advisory piece has been a priority for
the growth of the team here in London since its formation in
2009,’’ Martyn Gowar, head of the London international private
client team, said in a statement. ‘‘From the outset, our
strategic vision was to be a full service team with critical
mass in London building from the extraordinary depth and
strength of our teams in the U.S.’’  McDermott has more than 1,100 lawyers at offices in the
U.S., Europe and Asia.  Jones Day Adds Banking Litigator Matt Martel as Boston Partner  Matthew A. Martel, formerly a partner at McDermott Will &
Emery LLP, joined the Boston office of  Jones Day  as a partner in
the financial institutions litigation and regulation practice.  Martel’s practice has focused on representing financial
institutions in securities litigation, litigation arising from
mergers and acquisitions, and government and self-regulatory
organization investigations and enforcement actions, the firm
said. He also has experience litigating before bankruptcy
courts.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers at 40 offices
worldwide.  Securities Litigator Mandel Joins Foley From Schulte Roth  Foley & Lardner LLP announced that Mark S. Mandel has
joined the firm as partner in the litigation department and
securities enforcement and litigation practice in New York. He
was previously at Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP.  Mandel has more than 20 years of experience in complex
securities litigation and enforcement matters. He has
represented investment banks, corporations, investment advisers,
and others in investigations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission,  Department of Justice , state attorneys general, the
firm said. He was previously chief of the New York office of the
SEC’s division of broker-dealer enforcement.  ‘‘Mark’s wealth of experience with major securities-related
litigation and proven track record in obtaining favorable
results aligns well with the high-level of service our
department provides to clients surrounding these high-stakes
matters,” said Michael J. Tuteur, chairman of the litigation
department at Foley.  Foley & Lardner has about 900 attorneys in 21 offices in
the U.S., Brussels and Asia.  Hogan Lovells Expands New York Corporate Practice  Michael Gilligan joined Hogan Lovells LLP’s corporate
practice as a partner in New York. He was previously a partner
at Allen & Overy LLP in the corporate and mergers and
acquisitions practices.  Gilligan’s work focuses on cross-border and domestic public
and private M&A transactions, including representation of
financial sponsors and portfolio companies. He has represented
clients in proxy contests and spinoff transactions, and issuers
in initial public offerings, secondary equity offerings, Rule
144A offerings and exchange offers, the firm said.  Hogan Lovells has more than 2,500 lawyers at 40 offices in
the U.S., Europe,  Latin America , the Middle East and Asia.  Ballard Spahr Expands Public Finance Department in Washington  Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP bond financing lawyers
Pauline A. Schneider and Tatjana Misulic, have joined Ballard
Spahr LLP’s public finance department in  Washington  as special
counsel and of counsel respectively.  Schneider has more than 25 years of experience serving as
bond counsel, underwriter’s counsel, special counsel, or
disclosure counsel and has handled billions of dollars of public
finance transactions, the firm said. Misulic has worked with her
for more than a decade.  “Pauline and Tatjana are an excellent fit for our public
finance practice. They have significant experience representing
local governments, particularly in the growing Northern Virginia
counties,” Joseph A. Fanone, managing partner of the firm’s
Washington office said in a statement. “Pauline is a
trailblazer in public finance and Tatjana is a  rising star .”  Schneider and Misulic focus on transactional matters,
including the representation of state and local governments,
borrowers, underwriters, investment bankers, and credit
enhancement providers on complex general obligation and revenue
bond financings, the firm said. They have also worked on public-private partnerships in the Washington metro area.  Ballard Spahr has more than 500 lawyers in 13 offices in
the U.S.  Litigation  Asiana Seen Saving Millions With Tactic to Bar U.S. Suits  Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560)  could avoid hundreds of millions of
dollars in verdicts and settlements by employing a tactic under
international law to bar Chinese and South Korean passengers
from suing in victim-friendly U.S. courts over the crash of
Flight 214.  With the possibility of hundreds of claims against the
South Korean airline, litigators said the carrier will be
looking for ways to minimize the expense of the July 6 disaster,
which killed two 16-year-old Chinese girls and injured 181 other
passengers when a 777 jet tried to land at San Francisco
International Airport.  Asiana may argue that most if not all of the Chinese and
South Korean passengers’ ultimate destination was their home
countries, since they probably held round-trip tickets, and
that’s where they should file their claims. Win or lose on where
claims are heard, it will probably be Asiana’s insurers that
eventually pay the bill for claims, air-crash litigators said.  The flight from Seoul had 307 people on board, including 16
crew members. Some 141 passengers were from China, 77 from South
Korea and 61 from the U.S. Lawsuits over international airline
accidents are governed by the Montreal Convention, a treaty
signed by all three countries that states the place where cases
may be handled is based on factors including a passenger’s final
destination, said airline litigation attorney Mitch Baumeister.  “The airlines and their insurers will do everything they
can to transfer the case to a jurisdiction where their ultimate
liability is going to be small,” said Joel Faxon, a New Haven,
Connecticut, trial lawyer who litigated cases tied to the 2009
Colgan Air crash in Buffalo, New York, and those of the Sept.
11, 2001, terrorist attacks. The U.S. has a “generous judicial
system” and there are no caps on payouts for wrongful death and
injury cases in California. Chinese and South Korean court
awards are significantly limited in comparison to U.S. courts,
Baumeister said.  For more, click here.  News  Ex-Attorney Kluger’s 12-Year Insider-Trading Sentence Upheld  Matthew Kluger , a former lawyer who spearheaded a 17-year
insider-trading scheme, must serve his 12-year prison term, the
longest ever in such a case, an appeals court said in denying
his bid for a new sentence.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Philadelphia yesterday upheld
Kluger’s sentence for stealing corporate merger tips from four
law firms, including Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC. The
scheme generated $37 million in illegal profits, most of which
went to a New York stock trader to whom Kluger passed the
information. Kluger pleaded guilty.  “Kluger was an attorney who took an oath to uphold the
law,” the appeals court said in a 48-page ruling, turning aside
his claim that he was improperly sentenced. “It is really quite
remarkable that Kluger could not even wait to graduate from law
school before using his employment at a law firm to initiate his
illegal activities.”  Last week, an appeals court in New York upheld the 10-year
prison term handed down to ex-Galleon Group LLC trader Zvi Goffer for trading on tips from lawyers. Galleon Group co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , sentenced to 11 years after his 2011
conviction for leading an insider-trading ring, lost his bid for
a new trial last month.  The case is U.S. v. Kluger, 12-2701, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Third Circuit (Philadelphia).  Video  Las Vegas Sands Verdict Should Be Upheld, Lawyer Says  John O’Malley, partner at Norton Rose Fulbright LLP, talks
with Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck about his successful
representation of Hong Kong businessman Richard Suen in his
lawsuit against the Las Vegas Sands Corp. over claims that he
helped the casino operator win its gaming license in Macau.  A jury awarded $70 million in damages to Suen’s company,
Round Square Co., on May 14, and Clark County District Judge Rob
Bare added $31.6 million in pre-judgment interest on May 28.
O’Malley, in this “Rainmakers” episode, also explains why the
verdict against the casino operator should be upheld.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 