-- Senate Rejects One-Year Return to Lower Student Loan Rate
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-07-10T19:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/senate-rejects-one-year-return-to-lower-student-loan-rate.html
Talks to broker a compromise on
government-backed college financial aid intensified after
Republicans blocked a Democratic plan to cancel the July 1
doubling of a loan rate for 7 million low-income students.  A day after White House chief of staff  Denis McDonough  and
Education Secretary Arne Duncan met with Senate Democratic
leaders, bipartisan negotiators discussed alternatives to House-passed legislation that would link rates to changes in the yield
on the 10-year Treasury note.  “I am optimistic that we can come to an agreement,” said
North Carolina Senator Richard Burr, a Republican member of a
bipartisan group that has proposed a variable interest rate.  “We’ve got some options that seem to pique a lot of
interest in a bipartisan way,” he told reporters.  The rates charged on new subsidized Stafford loans doubled
on July 1 to 6.8 percent from 3.4 percent. Today, a Democratic
plan to reinstate the lower rate for one year was stopped on a
procedural vote. With 60 votes needed to end a Republican
filibuster against considering the measure, S. 1238, the vote
was 51-49.  Rates for non-subsidized Stafford loans, available to
students regardless of income, were already at 6.8 percent.  Senate Democrats  failed in an attempt last month to advance
legislation, S. 953, to extend the loan rate for two years.
Republicans blocked that measure as well, arguing that Congress
should adopt a long-term solution and peg student-loan interest
rates to the 10-year Treasury note.  The House plan, H.R. 1911, would charge students 2.5
percent more than the Treasury yield and cap rates at 8.5
percent.  Presidential Position  President  Barack Obama  also proposed tying loan rates to
10-year Treasury note yields. Senate Democrats have resisted the
market-based approach so negotiators are trying to find a way to
help students manage the risk of higher-loan rates if bond
yields increase over time.  Under the bipartisan proposal of six senators, S. 1241,
students borrowing both subsidized and non-subsidized Stafford
loans would pay 1.85 percent more than the Treasury yield. For
this year, that would translate into a 3.7 percent  interest rate 
for all Stafford loans.  Proponents of that bill such as Tennessee Republican  Lamar Alexander  argue that it would do more to benefit middle-income
students because all Stafford loan borrowers taking out
undergraduate loans would get the same rate. In addition, more
than 80 percent of low-income borrowers of the subsidized loans
must take out non-subsidized loans to finance their education.  Upper Limit  Senate Democrats are seeking a cap on the annual increase
in borrowing costs.  Negotiators are “trying to find a mutually satisfactory
solution,” Maine Senator Angus King, an independent who
caucuses with Democrats told reporters after he voted against
considering the one-year extension.  A cap on interest-rate increases every year would cost the
federal government more money and require higher loan charges,
Alexander and other senators said.  For that reason, the
bipartisan group opted to leave out the cap, Alexander said.  “These things move in tandem, as you lower the cap you
raise the rates and vice versa,” Illinois Democrat Richard Durbin said. “To raise the cap you lower the rates. So we are
trying to find the right spot.”  The Obama administration has urged that any plan passed by
Congress apply to loans disbursed after June 30, according to a
July 3 Education Department memo.  If the law is changed, the agency and its servicers will
adjust rates for all affected borrowers, including those who
already received their first subsidized loan disbursement,
according to the Education Department.  Burr told reporters that the Obama administration is
pressuring Congress behind the scenes to end the impasse because
“the White House would like to have this behind them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  