-- Serbia Will Probably Cut Rates as Prices Slow With Stable Dinar
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-07-10T12:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/serbia-will-probably-cut-rates-as-prices-slow-with-stable-dinar.html
Serbia ’s central bank will probably
lower borrowing costs for a third consecutive month as a stable
currency allows policy makers to take advantage of slowing
inflation.  The Narodna Banka Srbije in Belgrade will lower its  one-week repurchase rate  by a quarter point to 10.75 percent
according to 13 of 24 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Two
predict a half-point rate reduction and nine forecast the
central bank will leave borrowing costs unchanged. The bank will
announce the decision tomorrow at about noon.  A rate cut is justified by “falling CPI inflation due to
high base effects, local demand weakness and postponed
electricity price hikes for August,” Hypo Alpe-Adria d.d
economists led by Hrvoje Stojic in Zagreb said in a note to
clients today.  Serbian rate setters last month surprised the majority of
economists by lowering the benchmark rate a quarter point,
bringing the total easing since May to 75 basis points.
Inflation slowed to 9.9 percent in May, dipping below 10 percent
for the first time in nine months. The bank predicts the pace of
price growth will slow to 4 percent plus or minus 1.5 percentage
point by December.  The inflation rate peaked at 12.9 percent in October,
fueled by regulated price increases and rising dinar liquidity,
which forced the central bank to raise borrowing costs eight
times in nine meetings through February even as the economy
shrank.  ‘Certainly’ Falling  Inflation almost “certainly” falling below 6 percent by
October will “inevitably be accompanied by a cut in the repo
rate,” Ivan Nikolic, member of the central bank Governor’s
Council, the regulator’s supervisory body, told reporters in
Belgrade yesterday. “Since it has an impact on the dinar
exchange rate, it will be the big challenge for monetary policy
to make the right balance,”  The dinar traded at 113.9760 per the euro at 10:58 a.m. in
Belgrade, about 3 percent weaker than before the May 14 rate
cut. The central bank has intervened 15 times since May 30 to
prop up the currency, selling 325 million euros ($417 million),
according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  