-- Smithfield CEO Says Company Won’t Change After China Deal
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-07-11T00:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/smithfield-ceo-says-company-won-t-change-after-china-deal.html
Lawmakers skeptical of the proposed
acquisition of  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  by a Chinese company
grilled Chief Executive Officer C. Larry Pope on how the hog
processor’s proposed $4.7 billion takeover would affect U.S.
exports and security.  Ownership of the world’s biggest pork supplier by China’s
Shuanghui International Ltd. will expand exports without harming
U.S.  food safety  or economic competitiveness, Pope told the
Senate Agriculture Committee yesterday, responding to the
lawmakers’ concerns about potential risks. Chinese access to
agricultural technology through the deal won’t lead to that
nation eventually sending pig meat to the U.S., he said.  Still, the offer for the Smithfield, Virginia-based
processor from Shuanghui, which would be the largest Chinese
takeover of a U.S. company, fueled concerns over foreign access
to intellectual property, less-strict product-safety rules and
the broader effects of greater foreign ownership of U.S.
agribusiness.  “There is a fair amount of cynicism and concern about this
transaction,” Senator Heidi Heitkamp, a North Dakota Democrat,
told Pope at the hearing. Once Shuanghui owns Smithfield, “will
we then see that basically undermine pork production in our
country? And that’s the concern.”  The deal would give Shuanghui control of 460 U.S. farms and
contracts with more than 2,000 others, Pope said. Shuanghui and
Smithfield voluntarily submitted the transaction announced May
29 to the Committee on Foreign Investment in the  United States ,
a government body that reviews the national security
implications of foreign investment.  No Impact  “There should be no noticeable impact on how we do
business operationally in America or around the world as a
result of this transaction, except that we will do more of it,”
said Pope.  A bipartisan group of senators, including Senate
Agriculture Committee Chairwoman  Debbie Stabenow , a Michigan
Democrat, is urging CFIUS to include the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  and the  Food and Drug Administration  in its review
to ensure experts on  food supply  and food safety are part of the
process. Pope said at the hearing he had no objection to a USDA
review.  Senate Mike Johanns, a Nebraska Republican, said several
senators are frustrated that the U.S. is more open to takeovers
of agriculture companies than is the government in China.  ‘Really Offensive’  “There is something really offensive about the reality
that they can do this here, but a very aggressive company like
Smithfield, which has kind of redesigned pork production in the
U.S., cannot do this in  China ,” said Johanns, a former U.S.
Agriculture Secretary. “To us that is very, very difficult.”  Chinese investment in the U.S. this year may surpass the
record set in 2012, according to the Rhodium Group LLC. Buyers
from other foreign nations also are targeting U.S. companies:
There were $13.1 billion of foreign takeovers of American food
and agricultural companies announced in the first half of this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In 2012, companies announced deals valued at $23.6 billion,
the most in at least 11 years, the figures showed. The 2012
total included the $4.6 billion takeover of Nebraska-based grain
trader Gavilon Holdings LLC by  Japan ’s  Marubeni Corp. (8002)   Concern about Chinese control over U.S. technology or the
food supply may be overstated, said Senator  John Boozman , an
Arkansas Republican. Pork production is “a pretty stable
industry,” he said. “There’s not a great mystery in the feed
mix” or hog genetics that would give China a major edge, he
said.  China is projected to pass  Canada  this year to become the
biggest buyer of U.S. agricultural goods at $22 billion,
according to the USDA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  