-- Smithfield CEO Faces Lawmakers as Deal Raises Concerns
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a ,   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-07-10T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/smithfield-ceo-faces-lawmakers-as-deal-raises-concerns.html
Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  Chief
Executive Officer C. Larry Pope will face lawmakers as the
proposed $4.7 billion acquisition of the hog processor by a
Chinese company sparks concerns over U.S. national security.  Pope is slated to testify today before the Senate
Agriculture Committee in  Washington  and answer questions about
intellectual property, product safety and the broader effects of
greater foreign ownership of U.S. agribusiness.  Shuanghui International Ltd.’s friendly deal, the largest
Chinese takeover of a U.S. company, would give it control of the
world’s largest pork supplier, with 460 U.S. farms and contracts
with 2,100 others. The transaction, which was announced in May,
is subject to approval by the Committee on Foreign Investment in
the  United States , a government body that reviews the national
security implications of foreign investment.  “Given the size of the target, broad tensions with China
and  food safety  scares there, this is an unprecedented deal that
could lead to increasing political storms,” said Nova Daly, a
consultant at Washington law firm Wiley Rein LLP who advises
clients on CFIUS reviews. “It’s extremely rare for CFIUS to
review a transaction involving a food-product company.”  A bipartisan group of senators is urging CFIUS to include
both the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  and the  Food and Drug
Administration  in its review to ensure experts on food supply
and food safety are part of the process.  ‘Critical Infrastructure’  “We believe that our food supply is critical
infrastructure that should be included in any reasonable
person’s definition of national security,” according to a June
20 letter to Treasury Secretary  Jacob Lew  signed by 15 members
of the Senate Agriculture Committee, including Chairwoman  Debbie Stabenow , a Michigan Democrat.  Shuanghui declined to comment on security issues before
today’s hearing.  “As we said previously, we welcome a full review and fair
consideration of the Shuanghui-Smithfield combination from the
U.S. Government,” Smithfield said in an e-mailed statement.
“We believe the proposed combination does not present any
national security concerns, is good for U.S. farmers and
agriculture and will advance  U.S.-China relations .”  Blocked Transactions  CFIUS has blocked at least three transactions in the past
four years that would have resulted in Chinese companies gaining
control of U.S. assets near military facilities. Several of
Smithfield’s farms and contractors are near military operations,
according to Patrick Woodall, research director and advocate
with Food & Water Watch, a Washington-based group pushing for
cleaner resources.  The deal also has raised concerns that less-stringent
attitudes toward food safety in  China  might taint U.S.
practices, Woodall said. Smithfield’s technology would be used
to improve Chinese pork production, increasing competition with
 Japan  and  South Korea , and the takeover would allow more
Smithfield exports to China, raising U.S. pork prices and
creating more domestic hog feedlots, he said.  “We get the manure, they get the meat,” he said.  Improved safety is a major motivation for Shuanghui’s bid,
Chairman Wan Long said in June.  “If we go and purchase businesses from America and Europe,
develop China’s meat industry, we will raise the level and
standard of our food safety,” he said at the time.  Chinese Investment  Chinese investment in the U.S. this year may surpass the
record set in 2012, according to the Rhodium Group LLC. Buyers
from other foreign nations also are targeting U.S. companies:
There were $13.1 billion of foreign takeovers of American food
and agricultural companies announced in the first half of this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In 2012, companies announced deals valued at $23.6 billion,
the most in at least 11 years, the figures showed. The 2012
total included the $4.6 billion takeover of Nebraska-based grain
trader Gavilon Holdings LLC by Japan’s  Marubeni Corp. (8002)   Food represents a new frontier in the complex relationship
between the world’s two largest economies, said Mark McMinimy,
an analyst at Guggenheim Washington Research Group in
Washington. China is projected to pass  Canada  this year to
become the biggest buyer of U.S. agricultural goods at $22
billion, according to the USDA. Lawmakers may be less concerned
with the Smithfield deal itself than in exploring how to handle
future foreign purchases of U.S. agricultural assets.  “Apart from air, which no one owns, food is about the most
basic requirement we have,” McMinimy said in an interview.
“China is going to go out and make purchases to fill weaknesses
and holes in its  food supply  chain, and this may not be the last
one. We may need to think about this more holistically.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  