-- Snowden Seen as Whistle-Blower by Majority in New Poll
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-07-10T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/snowden-seen-as-whistlebloweer-by-majority-in-new-poll.html
A majority of U.S. registered voters
consider Edward Snowden a whistle-blower, not a traitor, and a
plurality says government anti-terrorism efforts have gone too
far in restricting civil liberties, a  poll  released today shows.  Fifty-five percent said Snowden was a whistle-blower in
leaking details about top-secret U.S. programs that collect
telephone and Internet data, in the survey from Hamden,
Connecticut-based Quinnipiac University. Thirty-four percent
said he’s a traitor. Snowden, 30, worked for McLean, Virginia-based federal contractor  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH)   The poll also showed that by 45 percent to 40 percent,
respondents said the government goes too far in restricting
civil liberties as part of the war on terrorism. That was a
reversal from January 2010, when in a similar survey 63 percent
said anti-terrorism activities didn’t go far enough to protect
the U.S. from attacks, compared with 25 percent who disagreed.  “The massive swing in public opinion about civil liberties
and governmental anti-terrorism efforts, and the public view
that Edward Snowden is more whistle-blower than traitor, are the
public reaction and apparent shock at the extent to which the
government has gone in trying to prevent future terrorist
incidents,” said Peter Brown, assistant director of
Quinnipiac’s polling institute.  The view of Snowden as a whistle-blower rather than traitor
predominated among almost every group of respondents broken down
by party, gender, income, education and age. Black voters were
the lone exception, with 43 percent calling Snowden a traitor
compared with 42 percent saying he was a whistle-blower.  Discordant View  “The verdict that Snowden is not a traitor goes against
almost the unified view of the nation’s political
establishment,” Brown said.  Facing espionage and other charges and with his passport
revoked, Snowden has been holed up at Moscow’s Sheremetyevo
Airport since arriving there on June 23 from Hong Kong, which
refused a U.S. extradition request. President  Barack Obama ’s
administration has been pressuring other countries not to grant
Snowden asylum, and U.S. officials who have called him a traitor
include House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican.  The poll showed both Democrats and Republicans about evenly
divided on whether government counter-terrorism measures have
become excessive. Independent voters view the methods as having
gone too far by 49 percent to 36 percent.  “The fact that there is little difference now along party
lines about the overall anti-terrorism effort and civil
liberties and about Snowden is in itself unusual in a country
sharply divided along political lines about almost everything,”
Brown said.  Gender Gap  A gender gap emerges, though, on the government’s anti-terrorism programs. The poll showed that men, by 54 percent to
34 percent, see the government as having gone too far in its
efforts while women, by 47 percent to 36 percent, said the
measures haven’t gone far enough.  Despite this divergence, figures for the genders from
Quinnipiac’s January 2010 poll exemplify the overall change in
attitude on the issue. Male respondents, by 61 percent to 28
percent, said in the earlier survey that the government hadn’t
gone far enough to protect the country. Among women, 64 percent
said the same.  Likewise, among Republicans the percentage who said
government has gone overboard in restricting civil liberties in
the fight against terrorism grew to 41 percent in the new poll,
compared with 17 percent three years ago.  “It would be naive to see these numbers as anything but
evidence of a rethinking by the public about the tradeoffs
between security and freedom,” Brown said.  The telephone poll of 2,014 registered voters June 28-July
8 has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.2 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 