-- Snowden Asylum Bid Leaves a Quandary on Getting There
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-07-10T02:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/snowden-asylum-bid-leaves-a-quandary-on-getting-there.html
Fugitive U.S. security contractor
Edward Snowden has an offer of political asylum from  Venezuela  -
- if only he can get there.  The hard part for Snowden will be finding a route to
freedom from Sheremetyevo International Airport in Moscow, where
he arrived on June 23. The U.S. has pressured allies to deny
airspace rights for any plane carrying the fugitive, who faces
espionage charges for revealing classified American telephone
and Internet surveillance initiatives.  “It’s one thing to grant him asylum,” said Diego Moya-Ocampos, a  Latin America  analyst at IHS Global Insight in
 London . “It’s a very different thing to make that effective.”  Before disclosing the top-secret National Security Agency
programs, Snowden fled to Hong Kong, which spurned a U.S.
extradition request and let him travel to Moscow. Russian
President  Vladimir Putin ’s administration has urged Snowden to
leave as soon as possible, and leaders of Venezuela, Bolivia and
 Nicaragua  have indicated they’d be willing to take him in.  President  Barack Obama  has ruled out trying to intercept
Snowden’s plane and force it down. “I’m not going to be
scrambling jets” to go after a “hacker,” Obama said at a June
27 news conference in Dakar,  Senegal .  The U.S. is openly lobbying other nations not to let the
former employee of government contractor  Booz Allen Hamilton
Holding Corp. (BAH)  escape.  “I don’t think there’s any secret that we would like to
see him returned,” State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said
during a news conference July 8. “We’ve communicated that
publicly and privately to any area where he may be stopping in
transit, any area where he could possibly end up.”  Havana Flight  Snowden’s most likely commercial route to Latin America
would be a regularly scheduled flight on Moscow-based OAO
Aeroflot from that city to Havana. Some reporters in Moscow have
taken that flight on a so-far mistaken bet he’d be on it.  Cuba would probably let Snowden travel to a Latin American
ally that shares its antipathy toward U.S. policy, according to
Daniel Sachs, a Central America analyst at  Control Risks , which
advises investors of security risks.  On the way to Cuba, though, “you’re going to have to go
through someone’s airspace,” Sachs said.  The flight from Moscow to Havana cuts across  Europe , where
U.S. allies already have shown their determination to help catch
Snowden.  Bolivia’s President  Evo Morales  had to make an unplanned
landing in Vienna to refuel after departing Moscow last week.
Morales said  Spain ,  France ,  Portugal  and Italy all denied his
plane permission to fly through their airspace on July 2 amid
suspicions that Snowden was on board. He wasn’t.  Private Jet  The alternative to the Aeroflot flight to Havana would be a
private jet provided by a Latin American government or a wealthy
Snowden supporter. Even then, avoiding a route over U.S. allies
wouldn’t be easy.  Allen Thomson, a former Central Intelligence Agency
analyst, outlined a theoretical route for Foreign Policy
magazine: “Fly north to the Barents Sea, thence over to and
through the Denmark Strait. Continue south, steering clear of
 Newfoundland  until getting to the east of the Windward Islands.
Fly through some convenient gap between islands and continue on
to Caracas.”  Thomson pegged the distance of such a trip at 11,000
kilometers, or about 6,800 miles.  A private jet such as a Gulfstream V would probably be able
to make the trip without refueling, said John Silcott, executive
vice president of Expert Aviation Consulting, which assists
attorneys in aviation lawsuits.  WikiLeaks Help  WikiLeaks, the anti-secrecy group that has backed Snowden,
had a chartered airplane on stand-by to carry him from  Hong Kong 
to Moscow, although he ended up taking a regular Aeroflot
flight. The organization, which is running short of cash,
“currently” has no plans to fly Snowden out of Moscow, Olafur
Vignir Sigurvinsson, an Iceland-based WikiLeaks representative,
said by phone this week.  Venezuela, already courting U.S. retaliation if it takes
Snowden in, may not be willing to provide a flight as well, said
Moya-Ocampos, the IHS risk analyst who served as chief secretary
for that country’s attorney general in 2000.  “Are they willing to have a private jet and arrange some
secret route?” he said. “I’m not sure. The U.S. has already
warned there will be consequences.”  Chartering a long-range jet aircraft traveling from Moscow
to Caracas would cost at least $134,490, according to an
estimate on PrivateFly, a jet booking website.  “It’s all about the money,” Silcott said. “If the price
is right, I think he could probably find someone or some company
to do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  