-- Sodexo Nine-Month Sales Rise, Boosted by Facilities Management
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-07-10T05:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/sodexo-nine-month-sales-rise-boosted-by-facilities-management.html
Sodexo (SW) , the world’s second-biggest
catering firm, said nine-month revenue rose as demand for
facilities management services offset slower growth in health
care and education services.  Revenue climbed 2.3 percent excluding the effect of
currency fluctuations and acquisitions in the nine months
through May, the French company said today in a statement. That
compares with the median 2.2 percent growth estimate of nine
 analysts  surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  First-half sales rose 2.1 percent on the same basis, it
said in April, missing estimates as lackluster demand in  Europe 
weighed on growth. Nine-month total revenue rose to 14.2 billion
euros ($18.1 billion) from 13.7 billion euros a year earlier.  Growth “remained satisfactory in a challenging global
environment,” Chief Executive Officer Michel Landel said in the
statement, saying its services are “well aligned with the needs
of our clients, who are looking for an extensive range of
services for their facilities around the world.” The company
also sees “strong growth potential” from  emerging markets .  Sodexo is cutting costs across Europe and restructuring
operations to drive profitability, and is expanding further into
facilities management, including contracts to look after sites
from oil rigs to hospitals. The Issy-les-Molineaux-based company
predicts “stable” earnings before interest and taxes this
year, it reiterated today, and expects annual revenue on an
organic basis to increase 1 percent to 2 percent.  It aims for a consolidated operating margin of 6.3 percent
by the end of the 2015 fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  