-- Sony’s Hirai Says Electronics Is Bigger Focus Than Movies
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-07-10T23:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/sony-s-hirai-says-electronics-is-bigger-focus-than-movies.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  Chief Executive Officer
 Kazuo Hirai , under pressure to sell a stake in the company’s
entertainment business, said turning around the struggling
consumer electronics operation is his biggest priority.  “I don’t worry about the entertainment business, it’s
doing just fine,” Hirai said yesterday in an interview at Allen
& Co.’s annual conference in Sun Valley, Idaho. “Electronics is
what needs the most work.”  Investor  Daniel Loeb ’s Third Point LLC hedge fund is
pressing Hirai to sell a stake in Sony’s movie and music
businesses in an initial public offering, to increase the Tokyo-based company’s stock price. Hirai has emphasized the need to
fix the business that makes TVs, phones and laptops, while the
Sony board is reviewing Loeb’s proposal.  Hirai, who is attending the  Sun Valley  conference with
Michael Lynton, CEO of Sony Entertainment, said he doesn’t
consider the event as a place to negotiate deals. Instead he
networks and collect business cards.  Hirai pledged to investors in June he will take bolder
measures to revive the electronics operation, which is losing
money in TVs and smartphones. Sony’s main TV business posted
nine straight annual losses for a total of 762 billion yen ($8
billion).  Without the contributions of profitable entertainment and
insurance businesses, Sony would have booked 130 billion yen in
losses in the year ended March 31.  Television manufacturing and the marriage of music and
video to mobile devices are big areas of focus at Sony, Hirai
said in the interview.  Loeb Stake  Loeb’s Third Point increased its stake in Sony last month.
Funds controlled by Third Point own 70 million shares through
direct ownership and cash-settled swaps, according to a June 17
letter from the investor to Hirai obtained by  Bloomberg News .
That equals about 6.9 percent of the Tokyo-based company’s
shares on issue.  The company is regaining its edge with the new PlayStation
4 game console and Xperia smartphones, Loeb said at the time. A
“semi-independent governance structure” would help Sony by
making managers more accountable and allowing for better
decisions on allocating capital, he said.  Sony’s motion picture unit, which includes the Columbia
studio, accounted for 26 percent of operating income in the year
ended March 31, while the music division featuring Adele and
 Bruce Springsteen  represented 20 percent, according to  data
compiled  by Bloomberg.  Media Stocks  Media stocks are near all-time highs on optimism that
producers of films and television shows will weather a decline
in home-video revenue by selling content to newer players like
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   Amazon yesterday announced an expanded agreement with
Miramax to bring “hundreds” of titles to its Prime Instant
Video streaming service, including “Pulp Fiction” and “Good
Will Hunting.”  Sony American depositary receipts closed little changed at
$21.77 yesterday in New York. They have almost doubled this
year. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Media Index of 16 stock has
advanced 26 percent this year, compared with 16 percent for the
wider S&P 500.  Howard Stringer , Sony’s former chairman and chief executive
officer, who is also attending the Sun Valley conference,
declined to comment on Loeb’s proposal, except to say he helped
Sony extend its push into entertainment.  “I put those businesses together,” Stringer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  