-- South African White Corn Gains to Highest in More Than a Week
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2013-07-10T12:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/south-african-white-corn-gains-to-highest-in-more-than-a-week.html
South African white corn futures
gained to the highest in more than a week.  White corn for delivery in December, the most active
contract, increased 1.1 percent to 2,313 rand ($230) a metric
ton, the highest closing price since June 28, by the midday
close on the South African Futures Exchange in Johannesburg. The
yellow variety for delivery in September gained 0.6 percent to
2,229 rand a ton.  Corn prices on the Chicago Board of Trade, the global
benchmark, swung between gains and losses today. The grain for
delivery in December gained as much as 1.1 percent and fell as
much as 0.9 percent. Prices rallied 4.2 percent yesterday on
speculation hot weather in the U.S. would damage crops. The  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  may pare its forecast for the nation’s
harvest tomorrow to 13.983 billion bushels from 14.005 billion
bushels last month, according to the average estimate of 20
analysts and trading firms surveyed by Bloomberg.  “There are concerns regarding the weather in America and
that’s what extended their gains, that is why we will see an
upward movement in our local market,” Benjamin Swanepoel, a
trader at Trademar Futures (Pty) Ltd., said by phone from
Johannesburg. “The USDA report is expected tomorrow and there
are concerns the weather will negatively affect the crop.”  Parts of southern  Illinois , the second-largest corn growing
state, may see temperatures above 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32
degrees Celsius) today, National Weather Service data show.
Areas of the western Midwest and central Great Plains were under
a heat advisory, it said.  South Africa  is the continent’s largest producer of corn.
Meal made from the white variety is a staple food, while yellow
corn is mainly used as  animal feed .  Wheat for delivery in December gained 0.1 percent to 3,404
rand a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  