-- Spreading Pig Virus May Curb U.S. Pork Supply, Veterinarians Say
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-07-10T21:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/spreading-pig-virus-may-curb-u-s-pork-supply-veterinarians-say.html
A swine virus that has spread to 16
states since April is killing piglets and slowing growth in
older hogs, threating to curb U.S. pork output, according to a
report by industry veterinarians.  There are about 331 confirmed cases of the porcine epidemic
diarrhea virus, according to a  report  posted today prepared by
the National Animal Health Laboratories Network and posted on
the American Association of Swine Veterinarians’ website. Most
of the animals affected have been older pigs that may stop
eating for two to three days and then typically recover.
Suckling  pigs , which are about three weeks old or younger, have
seen as high as 100 percent mortality.  “If it becomes endemic in a particular farm, then it
translates to poor performance and poor growth of the pig,”
James Collins, the director of the veterinary diagnostic
laboratory at the University of  Minnesota  in St. Paul, said in a
telephone interview. “That’s a reduction in the pork supply, I
suspect, but we don’t know fully the extent of how fast it’s
spreading or how it’s going to be controlled.”  The “absolute number” of pigs that have died isn’t
tracked, which makes it difficult to estimate the impact on
production, said Tom Burkgren, the executive director of the
American Association of Swine Veterinarians. The effect can be
“pretty severe” on an individual farm when the virus wipes out
two to three weeks of newborn pigs, Burkgren said. Mortality in
suckling and early weaned pigs is 30 percent to 100 percent,
according to the Iowa Pork Industry Center.  While  Iowa , the biggest U.S. hog producer, has 130 cases,
the most of any state,  Arkansas ,  Colorado , Illinois,  Indiana ,
 Kansas , Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, North Carolina, New York,
Ohio,  Oklahoma , Pennsylvania, South Dakota and Texas have at
least one case, according to today’s report.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture reported a detection of
the disease on May 17 and noted that it doesn’t affect people
and is not a food-safety concern. The virus is not a trade-restrictive disease and is widespread in many countries,
according to the National Pork Board, an industry group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  