-- Sprint Drops Nextel Name as SoftBank Takes Control
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-07-11T07:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/sprint-drops-nextel-from-company-name-as-softbank-takes-control.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  is dropping the
Nextel part of its name as it completes a deal with Tokyo-based
 SoftBank Corp. (9984)  that gives the Japanese company majority
ownership of the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier.  The company will retain its ticker symbol “S” on the New
York Stock Exchange and go by the simplified name Sprint Corp.,
according to a statement yesterday. SoftBank is spending $21.6
billion, including a cash infusion of $5 billion, to acquire
control of the carrier.  The name change turns the page on an ugly chapter for the
U.S. company, which spent $36 billion on Nextel Communications
Inc. only to write off most of the purchase price after
struggling to integrate the two companies’ networks. For
billionaire SoftBank founder Masayoshi Son, whose company has
stakes in Ustream Inc. and Gilt Groupe Inc. in the U.S., the
acquisition will help fulfill his ambition of making the company
the world’s biggest mobile phone operator.  “This spurs expectations for further growth, even though
there’s some risk,” said Tomoaki Kawasaki, an analyst at Iwai
Cosmo Holdings Inc. in Tokyo. “Son also wants to earn from
content on the Internet in the U.S.”  Sprint Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  will remain at the
helm of the newly minted company. Son, 55,  will serve as
chairman, while SoftBank board member Ronald Fisher will be vice
chairman. Sprint shut down the Nextel system this year.  SoftBank  shares  fell 0.7 percent to 5,720 yen at the close
of trade in Tokyo. Sprint rose 1.7 percent to $7.18 in New York.  Son’s Ambition  SoftBank, the third-largest Japanese carrier, won a bidding
war for Sprint when it raised its takeover bid and  Dish Network
Corp. (DISH)  abandoned a competing proposal. SoftBank plans  capital
spending  for Sprint of $8 billion this year and in 2014 before
dropping to $6 billion annually for the four years after that.
Annual savings at Sprint will be about $2 billion in the first
four years from cost cutting, Son said last month.  The Japanese carrier had its credit rating cut to A- from A
by Japan Credit Rating Agency today. The acquisition of Sprint
will result in a substantial increase in SoftBank’s debt and
deterioration is “inevitable,” the ratings company said in a
statement.  Standard & Poor’s cut SoftBank to BB+, the highest non-investment grade, last week.  Sprint separately completed the acquisition of  Clearwire
Corp (CLWR) , a mobile broadband company it already majority owned, it
said July 9. SoftBank needs Clearwire’s wireless airwaves to
roll out a fourth-generation network in the U.S. to challenge
 Verizon Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T)   Englewood, Colorado-based Dish, controlled by billionaire
 Charlie Ergen , abandoned its offer for Clearwire, conceding a
bidding war with Sprint on June 26. Dish’s decision to move away
from Clearwire came days after it scrapped its $25.5 billion
proposal for Sprint.  SoftBank, which has about 42 million subscribers with its
units, is the fastest-growing mobile carrier in Japan. It ranks
behind  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  and  KDDI Corp. (9433)  in Japanese sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  