-- Storm Chantal Degenerates Into Tropical Wave Near Cuba
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-07-10T21:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/storm-chantal-degenerates-into-tropical-wave-near-cuba.html
Tropical Storm Chantal degenerated
into a tropical wave south of Cuba, according to the U.S.
National Hurricane Center.  While the remains of Chantal have winds of 45 miles per
hour (75 kilometers per hour), above the threshold of a tropical
storm, it lacks the structure to be classified a named system.
All watches and warnings associated with it have been dropped.  “The remnants of Chantal are expected to spread over
 Jamaica  and eastern Cuba tonight and Thursday into northwestern
Bahamas and over or near the Florida peninsula by Friday,” the
hurricane center said in its last  advisory  on the storm at 5
p.m. New York time.  Chantal was the third storm of the Atlantic hurricane
season and these systems are closely watched because they can
impact oil and natural gas production as well as orange crops.  The Gulf of  Mexico  is home to 7 percent of U.S. natural gas
output, 23 percent of oil production and 44 percent of refining
capacity, according to the Energy Department. The Bay of
Campeche, within the Gulf, is where Petroleos Mexicanos,
Mexico’s state-owned oil company, has most of its production.  Florida is the second-largest orange producer after  Brazil .  While Chantal is gone for now, it may return, said Michael Schlacter, founder and president of Weather 2000 Inc. in New
York. Steering currents don’t have as much influence on waves,
as they do on fully formed storms, so the remains of Chantal may
drift westward into the Gulf.  If enough of Chantal makes it into the warm waters of the
Gulf, it is possible it could reform because conditions there
are favorable.  “Dying doesn’t mean forever, these things aren’t humans,”
Schlacter said by telephone. “A storm dissipating into a wave
is not the last sentence in the book. Between now and Monday
this may not be the last we hear of Chantal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  