-- Tsvangirai’s Bid to End Mugabe’s Zimbabwe Rule Fades
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-07-11T06:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/tsvangirai-s-bid-to-end-mugabe-s-33-year-rule-in-zimbabwe-fades.html
Five years ago  Morgan Tsvangirai  was
leading Zimbabwe’s presidential vote and appeared set to end
 Robert Mugabe ’s rule of the southern African nation before
violence cut short the balloting. With new elections due July
31, he appears ever further from his goal.  While Tsvangirai’s Movement for Democratic Change has been
in government for the past four years, helping turnaround an
economy that was in free fall, Mugabe, 89, wields the power with
the police and military. The voters’ roll is filled with as many
as a million people who are dead or have disappeared, and 29
percent of those 18 to 30 years of age aren’t registered,
according to the independent  Research and Advocacy Unit .  Tsvangirai, 61, wanted the election delayed. His MDC says
Zimbabwe’s election machinery isn’t prepared to hold a vote and
Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front
controls the state media. He quit the 2008 runoff election
because of violence against his supporters.  “The MDC has little chance of victory on two main grounds:
the lack of preparedness and the voters’ roll, which really can,
it seems, be used for manipulation,” Susan Booysen, an analyst
with the University of Witwatersrand, said by phone July 9 from
Johannesburg. “There is also the threat of violence at Zanu-PF’s disposal, whether violence is used or not.”  Economic Success  Zanu-PF spokesman  Rugare Gumbo  said the MDC’s concerns are
unwarranted.  “We are very, very happy with the way the registration was
done,” he said in an interview. “The MDC always complains.
That is their mantra.”  The MDC points to its role in salvaging the economy.
Following Mugabe’s decision to seize mainly white-owned farms
starting in 2000,  food production  and exports plummeted, and
inflation soared to as high as 500 billion percent, according to
the  International Monetary Fund . Gross domestic product shrank
39 percent in dollar terms between 2000 and 2008, the
Washington-based lender’s data shows.  During the same years, Tsvangirai and Mugabe fought four
elections, all of them marred by violence and electoral
irregularities, according to observers including the European
Union.  Regional neighbors in the 15-nation  Southern African
Development Community  brokered a 2009 power-sharing agreement
between Zimbabwe’s main political parties after it ruled
presidential and parliamentary elections the previous year were
void. Violence before and after the vote led to the deaths of
about 200 MDC supporters, according to Tsvangirai.  The coalition government, in which the MDC controlled most
economic ministries, turned the economy around.  Multi-currency Economy  Tendai Biti, the finance minister from the MDC, abolished
the Zimbabwe dollar and instituted a multi-currency economy,
using mainly the dollar and South African rand. The measure
reduced inflation to single digits, where it remains today, and
saw empty supermarket shelves being restocked. The economy has
grown every year since 2009, with the IMF predicting a 5 percent
expansion this year.  “What people forget is that the shops were literally
empty,” George Chofamba, a roadside shopkeeper in Harare’s
Zengeza suburb, said July 8. “Now the shops have everything and
it is because Mugabe doesn’t control the country’s money.”  Zimbabwe has the world’s second-largest reserves of
platinum and chrome after neighboring  South Africa  and
significant gold, coal, diamond and iron-ore deposits, which
attracted investment from companies such as  Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. and Rio Tinto
Group. Agricultural exports included tobacco, corn, soy, coffee,
tea, fruit and vegetables.  Media Control  The obstacles facing the MDC in the election include Zanu-PF’s grip on the state broadcaster, ZBC. It demanded $165,000 to
provide live coverage of the MDC’s election manifesto unveiling
two days after broadcasting President Mugabe’s election campaign
kick-off. The MDC declined to pay, according to spokesman Nelson Chamisa.  “It’s a matter of record that there are problems that
militate against free and fair elections,” former Finance
Minister Simba Makoni, who’s backing Tsvangirai, said in an
interview with Johannesburg’s PowerFM radio station yesterday.
“We fear the specter of violence and intimidation. There is an
uneven playing field in the media sector.”  No Money  When Zanu-PF held its primaries on June 25,  Zimbabwe ’s
police officiated and the party commandeered schools across the
country. Education Minister David Coltart, a senator and founder
member of a faction of the MDC, called the action illegal.  Zimbabwe must still raise $130 million to pay for the
election, Biti said yesterday.  The MDC is “doomed by its failure to end police support
for Zanu-PF,” said Valentia Kaseke, a security guard in
Harare’s northern Emerald Hill suburb. “All they can do is wait
for Mugabe to die and then Zanu-PF will be in disarray.”  Mugabe and his party still have their supporters who credit
them with bringing independence to Zimbabwe in 1980 after a
guerrilla war forced the white-minority government of Rhodesia
to negotiate a settlement.  “Zanu-PF will win the election because it is the people’s
revolutionary party, it made Zimbabwe from scratch. Zanu-PF is
Zimbabwe,” Farai Hove, a small-scale farmer from Ruwa, 20 miles
east of Harare, said by phone. “People can’t vote for the MDC.
It’s foreign.”  ‘Moral Ground’  In some cases, the MDC has proved its own worst enemy.
Allegations of corruption against MDC officials in three
constituencies, Harare, Chitungwiza and Bindura, may hamper the
party’s election prospects, even though Tsvangirai, a former
labor union leader, fired officials named in an internal party
report, Booysen said.  “The MDC lost moral ground in urban areas and its other
constituencies and they’re no longer able to say they will win
an election provided it’s free and fair,” she said.  The MDC wants to inspect the country’s voters’ roll, which
it says is being manipulated by the registrar general’s office.
Zimbabwe’s registrar general, Tobaiwa Mudede, denied the
accusation.  “The voters’ roll is open to inspection by the MDC, there
are no secrets,” he said by phone from Harare July 8.  The run-up to Zimbabwe’s ballot has left people wary and
scared, said Julius Nyikadzino, a pharmaceutical salesman.  “We’re dysfunctional, afflicted by post-traumatic stress
disorder after the last 13 years of violence, poverty and
uncertainty,” he said in an interview. “Everyone who doesn’t
benefit from Zanu-PF’s looting knows how to vote, but everyone
knows the likelihood of rigging is actually a certainty. It’s
just the degree of rigging that counts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Harare at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  