-- U.K. Stocks Advance to a Five-Week High as Miners Climb
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-07-10T08:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/u-k-stocks-advance-to-a-five-week-high-as-miners-climb.html
U.K. stocks  were little changed from
a five-week high as investors awaited minutes from the Federal
Open Market Committee’s June meeting for further indications of
the U.S. central bank’s readiness to reduce stimulus.  Burberry Group Plc jumped 4.4 percent after the luxury-goods retailer beat sales estimates.  G4S Plc (GFS)  declined 2.3
percent as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised selling the shares
before the security-services company reports financial results.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  added 7.59 points, or 0.1 percent, to 6,520.67
at 9:07 a.m. in London. The gauge rallied 2.6 percent last week,
its second-largest increase this year, as the  Bank of England 
and the  European Central Bank  pledged to keep  rates  low for the
foreseeable future. The FTSE All-Share Index fell less than 0.1
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index dropped 0.2 percent.  “I am surprised by the strength of the economy in the
U.S.,” said Mark Glazener, head of global equities at Robeco
Groep NV in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, where he helps oversee
$243 billion. “There is definitely a fiscal drag, but if you
take that out of the equation, growth in the U.S. is impressive.
We are overweight equities, still mainly because you have
valuations that are the main underpin rather than earnings
expectations.”  The Fed releases the minutes of its June meeting at 2 p.m.
New York time today. Speaking after that meeting, Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said the central bank may reduce the pace of its $85
billion in monthly bond buying later in 2013, and may halt
purchases around mid-2014 if the  U.S. economy  performs as the
Fed forecasts.  Additional Guidance  “We will be watching to see if the June minutes add any
additional color on this subject,” UBS AG economists led by
 Maury Harris  in New York, wrote in a report dated July 9.
“Potentially providing guidance on not only when the Fed will
begin to taper but also when it will finish.”  Burberry rose 4.4 percent to 1,503 pence. The U.K.’s
largest luxury-goods maker reiterated its forecasts for the year
after sales of its spring-summer collection lifted first-quarter
retail revenue more than analysts estimated.  Retail revenue advanced 21 percent to 339 million pounds
($505 million) in the three months ended June 30, London-based
 Burberry (BRBY)  said today. Analysts predicted 316 million pounds based
on the median of nine estimates compiled by  Bloomberg News .
Same-store sales increased 13 percent, beating the 5 percent
analysts had predicted.  G4S dropped 2.3 percent to 224.3 pence. Goldman Sachs wrote
in a report to investors that there is a risk that first-half
results may disappoint, with margins for the second quarter
narrowing from the previous three months. The shares are a
“conviction sell,” the bank wrote. G4S is due to  report  its
earnings on Aug. 28.  The number of shares changing hands on FTSE 100-listed
companies was 10 percent higher than the average of the past 30
days, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  