-- U.K. Fishermen Lose Legal Challenge Over Quotas for Larger Ships
-- B y   N i c o l e   M o r t i m e r
-- 2013-07-10T12:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/u-k-fishermen-lose-legal-challenge-over-quotas-for-larger-ships.html
A U.K. fishing trade group lost a
legal challenge against the British government that claimed a
system of allocating quotas for stocks of fish discriminates
against large ships.  The U.K. Association of Fish Producer Organisations had
argued that the procedure, put in place by the  Department for
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs  in 2012, is illegal and
deprives ships over 10 meters (33 feet) long of their
entitlement.  There was no discrimination against larger ships and the
decision to allocate quotas is “justified,” Judge Ross Cranston said in the ruling today.  In February 2012, the U.K. reduced the number of fixed-quota allocation units held by some members of English fish
producer organizations and transferred them to ships less than
10 meters in order to maximize the quota available.  “Fish are a scarce resource and decisions relating to it
have important social, economic and environmental
implications,” Cranston said. “The management of fish to
ensure utilization of fish stocks is obviously a legitimate aim
of public policy.”  The government consultation prior to the new rule
“explained that some of the United Kingdom’s quota was not
fished, which it described as a missed opportunity,” according
to the ruling. “The consistent under-fishing pattern against
some stocks suggested a more fundamental problem. In some cases,
this un-fished quota would be of great benefit for the under 10
meter fleet.”  Spokesmen for the U.K. Association of Fish Producer
Organisations and the Department for Environment, Food and Rural
Affairs declined to immediately comment.  The English fishing fleet consists of about 3,000
registered ships, mostly based in the south eastern and western
regions of the country, according to the judgment. About 70
percent of those are active. More than 2,500 of the ships are
shorter than 10 meters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Mortimer in London at 
 nmortimer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  