-- U.K. Investor Group Calls for Curbs on Dominant Shareholders
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-07-10T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/u-k-investor-group-calls-for-curbs-on-dominant-shareholders.html
The  Association of British Insurers ,
a U.K. investor lobby group, called for greater curbs on the
power of controlling shareholders of companies going public to
help bolster confidence in London’s equity capital markets.  Investors owning more than 30 percent of a company going
public should set out how they will act to ensure the business
is run independently after the initial public offering, the
London-based ABI said in a statement today. Regulators should
get powers to sanction shareholders if the companies don’t
comply with those pledges, the ABI said.  The ABI, whose members invest more than 1.8 trillion pounds
($2.8 trillion), is pushing to overhaul Britain’s corporate
governance rules after a series of controversies involving
companies such as  Kazakhstan ’s  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC) ,
which while publicly traded in London is controlled by a trio of
Kazakh billionaires. The U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority
plans to publish new governance rules for publicly traded
companies in coming months.  “Discouraging controlling shareholders who are not willing
to take on additional responsibility from listing on the London
market is a good outcome for the quality of companies that list
here,” the ABI said in the statement.  Overseas companies accounted for 65 percent of the $8.1
billion that companies raised from IPOs in London last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s up from 2010,
when overseas businesses accounted for 54 percent of the $13.8
billion raised through initial share sales in  London .  Independent Boards  The ABI said that at least 25 percent of a company’s shares
should be publicly traded, resisting pressure from some
investors to reduce that figure. Companies with controlling
shareholders should also appoint an independent board a month
before they announce their plans to go public, the group said.  The ABI also called on shareholders to have a greater role
in determining fees paid to underwriters in IPOs and for limits
on the number of banks companies hire to manage share sales.  Incentive fees should be paid to banks only three months
after an offering and companies should take into consideration
the stability of the share price, the allocation of shares to a
predominantly long-term shareholder base and the quality of
research from investment banks when awarding fees, the ABI said.  “As a rule of thumb, no more than three bookrunners should
be appointed for large transactions” of more than 250 million
pounds, the ABI said. Smaller IPOs should have no more than two
bookrunners, it said.  To help give investors more information, companies going
public should meet potential investors as much as a year before
an IPO, and a draft prospectus should be published a week sooner
than at present, the ABI said. The FCA should also loosen
restrictions to allow more analysts to publish research on
companies going public, the group said. Analysts at firms that
aren’t involved with a company’s IPO should be able to write
about that company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at   jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  