-- U.S. Bank Takeovers Will Probably Accelerate, Fitch Says
-- B y   E r i k a   W a d d e l l
-- 2013-07-10T21:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/u-s-bank-takeovers-will-probably-accelerate-fitch-says.html
U.S. banks with $50 billion of
assets or less will probably pursue more mergers in the next 18
months to contend with higher regulatory costs and competition
for loans,  Fitch Ratings  said.  Bank managements may also seek combinations to help
mitigate the risks posed by rising interest  rates , Fitch said
today in a report.  “There are too many banks chasing too few lending
opportunities,” Justin Fuller, a Fitch analyst, said in a phone
interview. The biggest banks “can underprice the smaller guys,
just because of their scale and funding advantage, and so the
smaller banks are just really getting squeezed.”  Fuller said he anticipates banks with assets of $5 billion
to $15 billion to seek mergers, while lenders with around $50
billion of assets will seek to get closer to $100 billion.  Rising stock prices will also drive bank managements to
sell to competitors or make acquisitions, according to Fitch.
The 46-company Standard & Poor’s SmallCap Banks Index is up 25
percent so far this year.  “For a while they’ve thought their bank is worth more than
what the market’s pricing it,” Fuller said, explaining why bank
executives have been reluctant to sell.  Mergers and acquisitions among U.S. banks have been delayed
by an uncertain regulatory environment that has raised costs,
according to the report.  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB) ’s purchase of Hudson
City Bancorp, announced in August, has been postponed by a
Federal Reserve review of its compliance with anti-money
laundering requirements.  Now “there’s greater certainty, and so you can manage that
better through an acquisition and integration process,” Fuller
said.  Banks in growing markets and whose assets performed well
during the financial crisis will probably be most attractive to
acquirers, according to Fitch. Potential buyers are likely to
have strong earnings and regulatory processes, Fitch said in the
report.  Manager and board fatigue may also be a factor, according
to Fitch.  “You’d expect them to either just be tired of running the
bank because it’s not like it used to be, or to look for
opportunities to get bigger so that they can maybe better
compete in terms of taking out some costs and benefiting from
scale, trying to reduce their funding costs,” Fuller said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erika Waddell in  New York  at 
 ewaddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  