-- U.S. Ethanol RINs Reach Record Highs on Consumption Targets
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-07-10T21:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/u-s-ethanol-rins-reach-record-highs-on-consumption-targets.html
Renewable Identification Numbers for
ethanol rose to record levels on concern the U.S. won’t adjust
consumption targets.  RINs, the credits that help the Environmental Protection
Agency track whether refiners are meeting federal biofuel-use
mandates, jumped 10 cents to $1.15 for  grain-based ethanol  and 8
cents to $1.18 for  advanced RINs , which cover biodiesel and
Brazilian sugarcane-based ethanol, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The surge in RINs has been a point of contention between
ethanol advocates and oil interests such as the American
Petroleum Institute, which wants the U.S. to repeal the 2007
energy law that requires use of the additive. The Environmental
Protection Agency said today that it sent the final rule for
this year’s volume standards to the White House Office of
Management and Budget last week.  “Some of these people had hopes that the volumes would get
decreased and now for whatever reason, now realize that EPA
isn’t changing it,” said Jim Damask, a manager at StarFuels
Inc. in Jupiter,  Florida .  RINs are certificates attached to each gallon of biofuel.
Once refiners blend ethanol into petroleum, they can keep the
RIN to submit to the EPA for compliance, or trade it to another
party.  There were about 2.6 billion RINs created last year that
can be carried over to this year, EPA said in a Feb. 7  notice  in
the Federal Register.  The U.S. will consume about 132.9 billion gallons of
gasoline this year, the Energy Information Administration
forecast yesterday in its  Short-Term Energy Outlook .  The 2007 energy law requires refiners to use 13.8 billion
gallons of ethanol this year.  Ethanol is typically blended in a formula of 10 percent of
the additive and the rest gasoline. While the EPA approved
blends of as much as 15 percent of the biofuel to be sold at
pumps, the higher concentrations aren’t in wide use.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  