-- U.S. Urges Level Playing Field as China Pledges Reforms
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-07-10T16:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/u-s-urges-level-playing-field-as-china-pledges-reforms.html
The U.S. pressed  China  to ensure
that American companies there are treated fairly and aren’t
subjected to cyber surveillance by the Chinese government.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, speaking at the start of
two days of U.S.-China talks in Washington, called for “an
economic relationship where our firms and workers operate on a
level playing field.” Companies that innovate and hold
intellectual property should be “protected from government-sponsored cyber intrusion,” he said.  China State Councilor Yang Jiechi said the country’s
leadership is committed to economic reforms and the continued
opening of its markets. China also is ready to discuss human-rights issues and work with the U.S. to fight terrorism, he
said.  The U.S. has been complaining to China about surveillance
of American companies. The issue may be complicated by Edward
Snowden’s disclosures about U.S. programs that collect phone and
Internet data, and his assertion last month that the U.S. had
been hacking into computers in  Hong Kong  and mainland China
since 2009.  “Our relationship is, and will continue to be, God
willing, a mix of competition and cooperation,” U.S. Vice
President  Joe Biden  said during a ceremony at the State
Department marking the annual U.S.-China Strategic and Economic
Dialogue. “Competition can be good for both of us. And
cooperation is essential.”  China’s Slowdown  U.S. officials have said they plan to press China to pursue
policies that will help reverse a Chinese slowdown, safeguard
its financial system, open markets to overseas products and
capital, and allow for a more flexible  exchange rate .  “We will never agree on everything,” Secretary of State
 John Kerry  said. “We will have candid conversation on those
issues where we don’t see eye to eye because that is absolutely
the best way to constructively manage our differences and
increase understanding.”  Vice Premier Wang Yang, also speaking during the opening,
said such talks benefit peace and development.  China’s economic growth has been slowing. The International
Monetary Fund yesterday projected that  China’s economy  will grow
7.8 percent this year and 7.7 percent in 2014. U.S. gross
domestic product is forecast to expand 1.7 percent before
accelerating by 2.7 percent next year, according to the
Washington-based IMF.  ‘Balanced’ Growth  The  U.S. economy  is “poised for continued strong and
broad-based growth,” Lew said in his prepared remarks. “What
matters is ensuring that our economies are growing in a way that
is balanced, beneficial and mutually compatible.”  China’s exports and imports unexpectedly declined in June,
underscoring the severity of the slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy as Premier Li Keqiang reins in credit growth.  Overseas shipments fell 3.1 percent from a year earlier,
the most since the global financial crisis, data from the
General Administration of Customs showed in Beijing earlier
today, compared with the median estimate of a 3.7 percent gain
in a Bloomberg News survey. Imports dropped 0.7 percent, while
the median projection was for a 6 percent increase.  Lew urged China to make good on pledges to open its economy
to competition and adopt more flexible exchange and interest
rates. “I will encourage China to follow through decisively on
the important commitments it has made to transition to a more
balanced and sustainable pattern of growth,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 Ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  