-- U.S. Falls Behind Slovenia in Latest Review of Population Health
-- B y   S a m u e l   A d a m s
-- 2013-07-10T15:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/u-s-falls-behind-slovenia-in-latest-review-of-population-health.html
Americans are dying sooner and
living with more illness than residents of Slovenia and other
less prosperous countries, according to the latest study showing
the U.S. is getting a poor return on money it spends on care.  Americans lost more years of life to  heart disease ,  lung
cancer , preterm birth complications, diabetes and at least 21
other conditions in 2010 than most other members of the 34-country  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development .
The study, released today in the Journal of the  American Medical
Association , measured disease and risk factors in the U.S. from
1990 to 2010.  The U.S. failed to keep up with other nations in improving
population health over the two decades despite spending the most
per capita on health care, the study said. The U.S. death rate,
after being standardized by age, fell to 27th in 2010 from 18th
in 1990. Citizens of poorer countries that spend less on  health
services , including Chile, Portugal, Slovenia, and South Korea,
had lower mortality rates than Americans.  “Despite a level of health expenditures that would have
seemed unthinkable a generation ago, the health of the  U.S.
population  has improved only gradually and has fallen behind the
pace of progress in many other wealthy nations,” wrote Harvey
V. Fineberg, president of the  Institute of Medicine  in
Washington, in an accompanying editorial.  The study compared mortality rates from 291 diseases across
the OECD countries. While the average  life expectancy  in the
U.S. rose to 78.2 years in 2010 from 75.2 years two decades
earlier, its rank among the 34 countries fell to 27th from 20th.  Drug use disorders in the U.S. increased 85 percent over
the two decades, placing Americans at the top of the list for
lost years of life due to poisonings. The disorder replaced low
neck pain as the only addition to the top 10 causes of years
lost to death or disability.  Heart disease remained the largest culprit for lost healthy
years of Americans. Time lost due to HIV/AIDS fell 61 percent in
the U.S. during the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Adams in  New York  at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  