-- Mubadala Investment Cut After Batista’s $10 Billion Rout
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-07-10T15:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/mubadala-investment-cut-after-batista-s-10-billion-rout.html
Eike Batista ’s EBX Group Co.
restructured a $2 billion investment by Mubadala Development Co.
after a stock-market selloff pushed down the value of the
Brazilian billionaire’s companies to half their combined debt.  EBX, based in Rio de Janeiro, and  Abu Dhabi ’s Mubadala also
reached agreements to protect the wealth fund’s remaining
investments in Batista’s group of interlinked energy,
commodities and logistics startups, EBX said in an e-mailed
statement. The partners will continue discussions on developing
EBX’s companies, EBX said.  “Under the new agreement, EBX has redeemed a significant
portion of Mubadala’s initial investment,” the Brazilian
holding company said. “EBX and Mubadala have also entered into
new agreements ensuring enhanced protection vis-a-vis the
remaining portion of the investment from Mubadala.”  Batista’s six publicly traded companies have lost almost
$10 billion in combined market value this year.  OGX Petroleo (OGXP3)  &
Gas Participacoes SA, Batista’s oil explorer that is a client
for his shipbuilding and port companies, has plummeted 88
percent after missing production targets and abandoning  oil
fields  it had previously declared commercial.  The six companies’ market capitalization is 9.4 billion
reais compared with total debt at the end of the first quarter
of 24.5 billion reais, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Long’ Process  Government-owned Mubadala agreed to take a 5.63 percent
stake in EBX at the peak of the Brazilian group’s market value
in March last year. EBX declined to comment today on the value
of Mubadala’s investment and how much of a stake it owns
following the restructuring.  “This is the beginning of a long restructuring process,”
Luana Helsinger, an analyst at brokerage GBM Grupo Bursatil
Mexicano, said by phone from Rio. “It’s necessary given that
the companies in the pipeline didn’t manage to become
operational with  cash flow  in the expected time frame.”  Mubadala said in a July 4 response to questions that it is
“monitoring” the situation with EBX and is in frequent
discussions with the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  