-- UBS to Citigroup Say Yuan May Weaken After Surprise Export Drop
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-10T06:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/ubs-to-citigroup-say-yuan-may-weaken-after-surprise-export-drop.html
China  may allow the yuan to weaken
in the second half to aid  exports (CNFREXPY)  after June shipments
contracted by the most since the global financial crisis,
according to economists from UBS AG to Citigroup Inc.  The currency should be allowed to depreciate “at least
marginally,”  Wang Tao , Chief China Economist at UBS in  Hong
Kong , wrote in an e-mailed interview. Ding Shuang, Citigroup’s
senior China economist, expects “periodic depreciation,” while
Credit Suisse Group AG’s Tao Dong said he anticipates a
“minor” decline against the dollar.  Exports unexpectedly fell 3.1 percent last month, while
imports dropped 0.7 percent, official data showed, underscoring
the severity of the slowdown in the world’s second-biggest
economy as Premier Li Keqiang reins in credit. China may fail to
achieve its trade target for a second year if the softness
persists, according to Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
The yuan is the sole gainer among Asian currencies this year,
putting the nation at a disadvantage in terms of overseas sales.  “Given a strong  yuan  relative to other Asian currencies,
export competitiveness will continue to erode,” Liu Ligang,
ANZ’s head of Greater China economics in Hong Kong, wrote in a
research note today. “With this in mind, we see a downside risk
for the RMB exchange rate.”  The currency, also known as the  renminbi , slipped 0.07
percent to 6.1338 per dollar as of 2:26 p.m. in  Shanghai ,
according to China Foreign Exchange Trade System prices. The
yuan has climbed 1.6 percent against the dollar this year and
reached 6.1210 in May, the strongest since the government
unified official and market exchange rates in 1993.  U.S. Dialogue  U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said China needs to
move toward a more market-determined  exchange rate , calling
changes in the yuan’s value inconsistent, as the two countries
prepare to meet in Washington for two days of strategic and
economic talks that are held every year.  The People’s Bank of China strengthened the daily fixing by
0.13 percent, the most since June 7, to 6.1652 per dollar today,
which reflects the bilateral talks rather than trade data,
Citigroup’s Ding wrote in an e-mailed interview.  “This can be reversed following the annual dialogue,”
Ding said. “We expect two-way volatility of the RMB in the
second half, with periodic depreciation likely in time of
capital outflows.”  --Zhang Dingmin. With assistance from Kevin Hamlin in Beijing.
Editors: Simon Harvey, Anil Varma  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  