-- Mundipharma Defeats Australia Early Generic OxyContin Bid
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-07-10T02:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/mundipharma-defeats-australia-early-generic-oxycontin-bid.html
Mundipharma Pty defeated a bid for
the early introduction of a generic version of the pain
medication OxyContin in  Australia , where it has the rights to
sell the drug.  Australia Federal Court Justice Steven Rares upheld the
Commissioner of Patent’s decision in 2000 to extend
Mundipharma’s OxyContin patent to July 23, 2014. He rejected a
claim by Spirit Pharmaceuticals Pty, a maker of generic drugs,
that the extension was invalid.  Spirit had argued that OxyContin isn’t a “pharmaceutical
substance per se,” with the patent only referring to the drug’s
active ingredient,  oxycodone , making the extension invalid,
according to the July 5 ruling. Spirit also argued that the
application for the extension was invalid because Euro-Celtique
SA, a company related to Mundipharma, was granted the extension
in 2000 even though it had assigned the patent to Mundipharma
Medical GmbH a year earlier.  Rares dismissed both challenges, ruling OxyContin is a
pharmaceutical substance which relies on a mixture of dosages of
oxycodone. The judge also said that while Mundipharma Medical
had been assigned the patent, Euro-Celtique remained registered
as the patentee for the drug until 2005, with the companies
apparently having forgotten about the 1999 assignment.  Purdue Pharma LP, the  Stamford , Connecticut-based drugmaker
which granted the OxyContin rights to Mundipharma, in April
 agreed  to allow  Actavis Inc. (ACT)  to sell a generic of the drug in
the U.S. as early as the start of next year.  The case is Spirit Pharmaceuticals Pty v Mundipharma Pty.
NSD721/2010 and NSD1054/2010. Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  