-- Unilabs Revives Bond Sale as High-Yield Issuance Rises in Europe
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   V e r i t y   R a t c l i f f e
-- 2013-07-10T14:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/unilabs-revives-bond-sale-as-high-yield-issuance-rises-in-europe.html
Unilabs , a Swiss operator of
clinical testing laboratories, is returning to Europe’s high-yield bond market today after postponing a sale last month as
speculative-grade issuance in the region surges.  Unilabs plans to sell 485 million euros ($622 million) of
senior secured notes and 200 million euros of payment-in-kind
toggle notes to repay existing debt, according to a person
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified because
the details are private. The Geneva-based company pulled a sale
of notes on June 13, another person familiar with the deal said
at the time.  Italian automaker  Fiat SpA (F)  and  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s
second-biggest auto-parts supplier, led 2.1 billion euros of
speculative-grade bond issuance yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The sales outpaced the 500 million euros
of junk sales for the whole of last week, the slowest since the
week ended March 30. Credit Agricole SA and the European
Financial Stability Facility, both investment-grade issuers,
also marketed notes today, people familiar with the deals said.  “We are seeing a lot of issuance and a big pipeline this
week for a market that was in free-fall only a few weeks ago,”
said Henry Craik-White, a senior investment analyst at ECM Asset
Management Ltd. in  London . “Investors are right to still be
cautious and select the right deal on the right terms.”  Yields Fall  Credit markets were buoyed on July 4 after European Central
Bank President Mario Draghi and Bank of England Governor Mark
Carney both distanced themselves from the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
signal that the U.S. is preparing to pare back stimulus
measures. Both officials’ rhetoric helped to stem a rout in bond
markets triggered by Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke on June 19.  The average yield investors demand to hold non-financial
high-yield bonds in euros dropped to an almost three-week low of
5.9 percent yesterday, down from a seven-month high of 6.3
percent reached on June 25, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  “Just the fact that the market’s become calmer in the
post-Fed tapering headlines has helped to create an environment
in which issuance can be more readily done,” said Nick Burns, a
credit strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s third largest bank, priced
1.25 billion euros of 10-year bonds to yield 3.171 percent,
while EFSF sold 5 billion euros of seven-year bonds yielding
1.755 percent, people familiar with the deals said today.  Unilabs Notes  Unilabs, owned by funds advised by private-equity firms
Apax Partners LLP, Apax Partners SA and Nordic Capital Svenska
AB, is selling its new notes through units Unilabs SubHolding AB
and Unilabs MidHolding AB, according to the person. The company
is marketing 385 million euros of five-year fixed-rate
securities, 100 million euros of five-year floating-rating
notes, and 200 million euros of second-lien PIK Toggle notes due
in 5 1/2 years, the person said.  Payment-in-kind, or PIK, notes allow borrowers to toggle
between paying interest in cash or with more debt.  Sarah Rajani, a spokeswoman at Apax Partners LLP in London,
and Coralie Cornet, a spokeswoman for Apax Partners SA in Paris,
declined to comment on the bond sale. Katarina Janerud, a
spokeswoman at Nordic Capital in  Stockholm , also declined to
comment.  Moody’s Investors Service assigned Unilabs a provisional
rating of B3, six levels below investment grade, in a report on
June 5, while it ranked the company’s proposed PIK notes two
levels lower at Caa2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net ;
Verity Ratcliffe in London at 
 vratcliffe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  