-- UnitedHealth Sees Accountable-Care Work Doubling by 2017
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-07-10T20:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/unitedhealth-sees-accountable-care-work-doubling-by-2017.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  said it will
more than double payments to physicians tied to quality and cost
efficiency within five years, in the latest sign of
transformation in the American medical system.  UnitedHealth, the biggest U.S. insurer, said it expects to
spend about $50 billion under accountable-care contracts by
2017, compared with $20 billion now. The programs already have
slowed the increase in medical costs and reduced emergency-room
visits by 17 percent, the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based carrier
said in a statement today.  Insurance companies and the federal government are
experimenting with accountable care to shift from fee-for-service payments that pay providers for each individual
procedure. The Obama administration credited pilot programs
included in its 2010 health-care law for cutting the rise in
health-care spending in half over the past three years.  UnitedHealth is “moving even more broadly to value-based
payment models and integrating those with our care-provider
network,” said Austin Pittman, president of UnitedHealthcare
Networks, in the statement. “Our unparalleled experience with
accountable care models -- and there are many -- demonstrates
that they can work better for everyone in health care.”  The company insured about 42 million people as of March 30.
It spent $80.2 billion on medical claims last year, according to
a Jan. 17 earnings statement.  UnitedHealth fell less than 1 percent to $67.69 at the
close in New York. The shares have gained 25 percent this year.  10-Fold Jump  Under accountable-care deals, doctors, hospitals and other
care providers can earn higher payments if they meet goals based
on cost and patient health or lose money if they miss the marks.
Smaller insurers including  Aetna Inc. (AET)  and  Cigna Corp. (CI)  also have
pushed the new payment plans, with Cigna Chief Executive Officer
David Cordani saying he hoped to increase the members in such
arrangements 10-fold by 2014.  The efforts haven’t always worked. Last month, the U.S.
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services said nine health
systems, almost a third of the participants, were considering an
exit from one pilot program started under the health-care law.  UnitedHealth said it has seen benefits. One program reduced
the use of out-of-network laboratory services by 25 percent.
Another shortened the average hospital stay for organ-transplant
patients by a quarter, according to today’s statement. The
insurer said it shaved as much as 4.5 percentage points off the
rise in medical costs under accountable-care programs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  