-- Venezuela Forces Employment Even With Shuttered Factories
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-07-10T17:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/venezuela-forces-employment-even-with-shuttered-factories.html
Jean Salero gets up at dawn to clock
in for his daily shift at a shuttered beer factory in the
Venezuelan city of Barquisimeto. After eight hours of checking
valves and taking temperatures of idle machinery, he clocks out
to earn his 4,700 bolivar ($746) monthly paycheck.  The former supervisor is among 220 workers who continue to
draw wages at the plant that produced Brahma beer until Belgian
owner  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s largest brewer,
halted production four months ago.  Salero has kept his job because of a 2012 labor law that
obliges companies to obtain government permission to fire
anyone. The state has yet to approve a single dismissal, said
Aurelio Concheso, the labor committee director at Venezuelan
business chamber Fedecamaras. It’s a deterrent to investment in
a country that already had the world’s most restrictive hiring
and firing practices, according to rankings by the Geneva-based
 Global Economic Forum .  “These measures are a straightjacket for companies, who
prefer not to fill  job openings  and don’t have any incentives to
invest,” said Leon Arismendi, the labor law professor at the
Central University of  Venezuela  in Caracas.  Salero, who has worked at the brewery since 2011, doesn’t
see it that way.  “We are confident the government will declare this
production halt illegal,” Salero, 33, said on the way to a
labor union meeting. “In the meantime, we are doing our regular
shifts, keeping the plant in order.”  Prolonged Fall  Inbev closed its only Venezuelan plant after a prolonged
fall in sales and rising costs made further investments
unviable, the company said in an e-mailed statement on March 20.
Brahma will “comply with all Venezuelan laws, including first
of all, the labor rights of its workers,” the statement said.
InBev external press official Fernanda Doniani in  Sao Paolo 
declined further comment July 8.  The closure reflects an overall contraction of Venezuelan
industry. Manufacturing fell 3.6 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, according to  central bank  data.  In addition to the firing restrictions enacted last year,
companies are also adapting to legislation in May that limited
workers’ hours to 40 a week, down from 44.  “The private sector is reducing production to comply with
the labor law,” said Efrain Velazquez, president of the
National Economic Committee, a group of academics and
businessmen advising President  Nicolas Maduro . “We are already
seeing the impact in lower growth and higher inflation.”  May 1 Speech  The changes to labor regulations “ensure  job security  for
all workers in the country,” Maduro said in a speech in Caracas
on May 1, after signing the new legislation into law. An
Information Ministry official, who asked not to be identified
because of government policy, didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comment.  Contracting consumer goods production has coincided with a
scarcity of dollars that has crimped imports, leaving shops
without goods from toilet paper to milk and meat. The shortages
pushed inflation to 39.6 percent in June, the fastest among 103
economies tracked by Bloomberg.  The central bank’s scarcity index fell to 19.3 in June from
20.5 in May, meaning that one out of every five consumer staples
were out of stock at any given time.  Currency Restrictions  Foreign companies are also reluctant to expand because
currency restrictions make it hard to send profits abroad. Phone
maker BlackBerry said June 28 that the restrictions contributed
to a surprise loss in the second quarter.  Businesses that can’t get access to a limited supply of
dollars at the official rate of 6.3 bolivars pay five times as
much on the black market.  Venezuela needs local industry to invest and lift
production, yet the  labor laws  make companies unwilling to hire
workers they will never be able to fire, said Concheso.  “There’s a total denial by officials to process dismissal
requests,” said Concheso. Moreover, “workers have no
motivation to work as they know they can’t be dismissed.”  When InBev stopped paying workers at its Barquisimeto
plant, Salero went straight to Labor Minister Maria Cristina Iglesias. He presented his plea during one of the 540 “Street
Government” community meetings held by Maduro and his ministers
around the country. Brahma paid wage arrears within weeks,
Salero said.  Imerys Closure  French industrial company  Imerys SA (NK)  halted production at
its Calderys building materials plant in Venezuela in December
because unpaid invoices to government customers left it broke,
Calderys’ marketing vice president Cyprien Maugras said in an e-mail April 15.  Imerys was able to dismiss 65 of its 85 workers by paying
them “unjustified dismissal” compensation, the company’s local
legal representative Leonardo Mata said by phone from Puerto
Ordaz on July 9, without specifying the amount. The other 20 are
holding out for the government to take over the plant, he said.  Imerys share price fell 0.7 percent today in Paris to 46.89
euros.  “There is a strong policy not to authorize layoffs,” Juan
Carlos Pro Risquez, a labor lawyer at Norton Rose legal firm,
said in an interview in Caracas. “It’s like being stuck in a
broken marriage: companies do leave eventually, but it costs
them more.”  Foreign Investment  Foreign companies invested $5 million in Venezuela’s non-oil sectors in the first quarter of this year, compared with
$1.3 billion in the same period of 1998, the year before self-professed socialist  Hugo Chavez  came to power, according to
central bank data. Neighboring  Colombia  received $1.67 billion
of non-oil or mining foreign direct investment, or FDI, from
January to March.  Venezuela’s FDI, at 0.6 percent of GDP, represents the
smallest share of economic activity among the 33 Latin American
and the Caribbean countries tracked by the  World Bank .  Still, strong employee rights and social welfare programs
helped Chavez and his handpicked successor Maduro win five
presidential elections in a row.  The  unemployment rate  has been cut almost in half since
Chavez took office under the slogan of “21st Century
Socialism.” Venezuela’s jobless rate was 7.8 percent in May,
according to the  National Statistics Institute , known as INE.  Chavez nationalized more than 1,000 companies or their
assets in his 14-year-rule before dying from cancer in March.
The campaign against private industry means most new jobs have
been created in the state sector, which employed 35 percent of
the workforce at the end of 2012, up from 15 percent in 1999,
INE’s figures show.  Public sector wages rose 500 percentage points more than in
the private sector in the period.  Slowing Down  Venezuela’s economy grew 0.7 percent in the first quarter,
the slowest pace since the last three months of 2010. Maduro
said in a televised speech in June that the government’s
response to the slowing economy, shortages and inflation will be
“production, production, and more production.”  The president drove a Caracas subway train before becoming
the subway system’s union leader and then was in charge of
rewriting the labor section of the constitution, which was
changed by Chavez in 1999.  Small and medium-sized companies, the core of the
government’s strategy to increase production, have been
particularly hit by the tighter firing restrictions and shorter
work week rules, which also require giving workers two
consecutive days off.  Andean Oven  The Little Andean Oven, a family-owned restaurant in
Caracas’s Campo Alegre district, used to have a brisk Sunday
brunch business serving dishes of flatbreads, fresh cream and
white cheese typical of Venezuela’s mountainous west. Since
June, The Oven has been boarded up on Sundays.  The new rules on working hours make it impossible to staff
the restaurant that day, said a waiter at the restaurant.  “We would all prefer to keep working, as Sunday was our
busiest day with the best tips,” said the waiter, who declined
to give his name because he isn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Small businesses that can’t adjust are shutting their
doors. The number of employers in Venezuela declined by 94,000
to 400,000 in the last six and a half years, according to a
report published July 1 by local consultancy Econometrica.  Foreign companies are closing down at an even faster rate,
withdrawing a net $400 million in non-oil FDI in 2012, as they
sold out to local partners or had their assets expropriated by
the government.  ‘A Joke’  Salero and his co-workers are calling on the government to
force InBev to sell its Barquisimeto plant to Ricardo Cisneros,
a Venezuelan billionaire whose Cerveceria Regional brewery was
Brahma’s distribution partner.  “This closure is illegal,” Salero said. “As Regional was
a partner, it should become the new owner and restart the
plant.”  Cerveceria Regional President Cristina Pieretti was not
available for comment.  “The private sector doesn’t have any incentive or capacity
to replace public spending,” said Francisco Ibarra, partner at
Econometrica, by phone from Caracas. “Businessmen invest in
what they think will make them more money. Thinking that you can
force them to invest is a joke.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Caracas at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  