-- Verizon Seen Owing Apple Up to $14 Billion for IPhones
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-07-10T16:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/verizon-seen-owing-apple-up-to-14-billion-for-iphones.html
Verizon Wireless may end up owing
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  as much as $14 billion in purchase commitments over
time if the mobile carrier fails to sell an agreed number of
iPhones, a report from Moffett Research LLC said.  Under a multiyear deal signed with Apple in 2010, Verizon
Wireless is obligated to buy $23.5 billion worth of iPhones in
2013 alone, according to Craig Moffett, a telecommunications
analyst who left Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. earlier this year to
start his own research firm. Since the purchase commitment is
more than twice what Verizon Wireless sold in 2012, the company
may have a shortfall of $12 billion to $14 billion, worth $4 to
$5 per share, Moffett said in the report.  The report suggests sluggish demand for the iPhone, which
accounts for about  half  of Apple’s sales. Other wireless
providers around the world may be experiencing iPhone sales
deficits as well, Moffett said. The sales shortfall bolsters
analysts’  projection  for Apple to report a 22 percent decline in
net income to $6.87 billion in the third fiscal quarter,
according to the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “It is likely that Apple would be reluctant to simply
ignore these commitments, since many other carriers around the
world are probably in a similar situation, and a simple amnesty
would set an unwanted precedent,” Moffett wrote. “It is
therefore unrealistic to think that Apple won’t extract some
consideration for renegotiating these shortfalls.”  Trudy Muller, a spokeswoman for Apple, and  Brenda Raney , a
spokeswoman for Verizon Wireless, declined to comment on
Verizon’s iPhone purchase commitments.  Sprint Commitments  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , which began selling iPhones in 2011,
will probably be able to meet its commitment to buy $15.5
billion worth of iPhones over four years “barring any hiccup in
Sprint’s rate of handset sales or the popularity of the
iPhone,” Moffett said.  Scott Sloat , a spokesman for Sprint, didn’t have an
immediate response.  Verizon and Sprint’s contractual obligations with Apple may
be the reason why some carriers are holding out on partnering
with the Cupertino, California-based company, Moffett said.  Apple has announced fewer than a dozen new wireless-service
providers to sell iPhones since September 2011, leaving the
total at about 240. Many carriers balk at working with Apple
because of the conditions it imposes. Holdouts include  China
Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s biggest phone company, as well as
carriers in countries such as Japan, India and  Russia ,
representing billions of potential customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  