-- Wal-Mart to Gap Group Starts $42 Million Bangladesh Fund
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-07-10T21:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/wal-mart-to-gap-group-starts-42-million-bangladesh-fund.html
A new plan by  Gap Inc. (GPS) ,  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  and other North American retailers to improve
factory safety in Bangladesh was criticized for falling short of
a pact reached by mostly European retailers.  A $42 million fund will be set up to implement the five-year plan, which requires factories to be inspected within a
year and the results made public, the North American companies
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The Alliance for
Bangladesh Worker Safety said it will set safety standards by
October and refuse to buy from factories deemed unsafe.  In the North American pact, individual retailers can
voluntarily pledge capital beyond the $42 million so factories
can make safety renovations. By contrast, the plan joined by
 Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and  Inditex SA (ITX) , Europe’s two largest
clothing retailers, obligates companies to ensure their
factories have the capital to make necessary repairs.  “It’s disappointing that Wal-Mart, Gap and other U.S.
retailers have chosen to go their own way with a plan that
appears to lack meaningful transparency and accountability,”
New York City Comptroller John C. Liu said in an e-mailed
statement. What’s worse, “their plan risks diluting the
effectiveness of a stronger, global effort to improve worker
safety,” said Liu, who oversees city pension funds that owned
5.1 million Wal-Mart shares as of April 11.  Factory Collapse  The 17 North American retailers, which also include  Target
Corp. (TGT) ,  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  and  Canadian Tire Corp. (CTC) , have been
working with industry associations and the nonprofit Bipartisan
Policy Center to craft an alternative to a European plan for
improving factory safety in Bangladesh. Both initiatives were
started in the wake of the collapse of the Rana Plaza factory in
April, which killed more than 1,100 people in the worst
industrial accident in the country’s history.  Jay Jorgensen, Wal-Mart’s global chief compliance officer,
rebutted criticism that the North American agreement fell short
of the European pact.  “I’m in no way critical of the work that the European
retailers are putting in -- what they’re doing is strong,” he
said in a telephone interview. “But I disagree with assertions
that we’re not as strong. We are.”  The accord signed by H&M and Inditex pledged at least $60
million over five years to monitor safety in  Bangladesh  plants.
In the North American agreement, each retailer’s financial
contribution will correspond with the size of its operations in
the country. Retailers with the most production will pay $1
million a year for five years. About 10 percent of the funds
will help workers displaced by factory improvements or closings.  Low-Interest Loans  Individual retailers, including Gap, also have committed
more than $100 million for low-interest loans to ensure repairs
occur quickly, Debbie Mesloh, a spokeswoman for the San
Francisco-based chain, said in an interview.  The retailers said they will select a non-governmental
organization in the next 30 days to implement the program. Under
the accord signed by the Europeans, a third party conducts
factory audits. In the North American pact, retailers use an
approved inspector while a third party conducts spot checks of
remediation efforts and inspections.  “We all share a deep sense of collective responsibility to
prevent the horrific loss of human life we’ve witnessed in
Bangladesh from ever recurring,” former U.S. Senator Olympia Snowe, who co-chaired the group’s talks, said in the statement.
The agreement is “a substantive and timely step forward in
protecting Bangladeshi workers.”  Progress Reports  The North American group’s board, which will be appointed
in the coming weeks, will release semi-annual progress reports.
Snowe and former U.S. Senator George Mitchell will provide
reviews of the program for at least the first two years.  Factory workers and managers will be required to undergo
mandatory training. An anonymous hotline administered by a third
party will be established by November, and worker committees to
share safety concerns will be created at each factory, the
companies said.  In a joint statement yesterday, labor-rights groups
including the International Labor Rights Forum and the National
Garment Workers Federation of Bangladesh described the North
American agreement as a “sham,” developed and controlled by
the companies with few enforceable obligations.  Unlike the accord signed by the European companies, the
North American agreement doesn’t involve unions in oversight or
planning, which could make enforcement more difficult, said
Matthew Amengual, assistant professor at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology who studies labor regulation and
enforcement in developing nations.  Weaker Enforcement  “The Alliance appears to be much weaker,” he said in a
telephone interview. “The Alliance has a lot of the features of
private regulatory regimes that research has shown over the last
10 years is not very effective.”  Mesloh said the group has been in talks with labor groups
including a local labor union in Bangladesh and the
International Labor Organization. The North American alliance
also hopes to work with the members of the accord, she said.  Bangladesh exported $21.52 billion in garments for the year
ended June 30, according to the  Bangladesh Export Promotion
Bureau , a government run-agency. That compares with $18 billion
in the previous year. The nation exports 60 percent of its
apparel to Europe and 23 percent to the U.S., the bureau said
this week.  The Worker Rights Consortium, a Washington-based labor-rights monitoring group, has previously said it would take
billions of dollars to make Bangladesh factories safe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  