-- Walgreen Joins Blue Cross to Promote Health Exchanges
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-07-10T20:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/walgreen-joins-blue-cross-to-promote-health-exchanges.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the biggest U.S.
drugstore chain, agreed to join with the largest federation of
health insurers to promote the Affordable Care Act, lending a
hand as the Obama administration strains to win over the public.  The Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, comprising 38 state
and local health plans including 14 owned by  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) ,
said today it will set up an educational website with Walgreen
and distribute information in the retailer’s 8,000 stores. The
campaign is aimed at encouraging people without insurance to use
the government exchanges to shop for subsidized health plans.  The announcement may provide a lift two weeks after the
 National Football League  threw water on the idea of becoming a
partner with the Obama administration, which has struggled to
sell the law’s benefits amid roadblocks by Republican opponents.
The Walgreen-Blue Cross effort would be the largest by private
industry to promote the 2010 health-care law.  “There’s a lot of confusion, a lot of questions, and it’ll
take a tremendous collaborative effort to make sure people have
the information they need to make informed choices,” Brad Fluegel, chief strategy officer for Deerfield, Illinois-based
Walgreen, said in a statement.  While the core parts of the law take effect next year,
about 4 in 10 people polled by the nonprofit  Kaiser Family
Foundation  in April said they weren’t even sure it was still on
the books.  The companies didn’t disclose financial terms of the
partnership.  Health Destination  Chicago-based Blue Cross includes plans that cover about
100 million people in the U.S. Walgreen stores see about 120
million customers a year, Fluegel said today in a phone
interview. About 16 percent of Americans were uninsured in 2011,
according to Kaiser, and Fluegel said Walgreen believes its
customers “are fairly representative of America.”  “We are a health destination for a lot of those
customers,” he said. “We wanted be able to keep them informed,
educate them on the changes and what their options are. It’s a
question people are going to be asking our store personnel,
pharmacists, other professionals.”  The promotional materials Walgreen distributes won’t
recommend any specific insurance plan and customers won’t be
able to enroll in stores, Fluegel said.  Shares Rise  Walgreen gained 3 percent to $47.85 at the close in  New
York . The company’s shares have increased 29 percent this year.
WellPoint rose less than 1 percent to $84.75 and has advanced 39
percent this year.  Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans participating in the
effort include some that haven’t committed to sell policies in
their states’ exchanges in 2014, said  Maureen Sullivan , senior
vice president of strategic services at the association.  “They’re looking to participate in the future,” she said
in a phone interview. “Even if they’re not playing the first
year, they want people to know this is what’s happening. It’s a
commitment to the local community.”  The Obama administration has been criticized by opponents
and supporters for not doing enough to promote the law. The
online exchanges are supposed to be ready Oct. 1 for people to
start signing up for insurance that would start Jan. 1.  Hotline Opened  U.S. officials opened a hotline for questions about the law
last month and activated a website that outlines its provisions.
The administration also has hired the advertising and public
relations firm Weber Shandwick to design publicity campaigns for
the law, which will begin closer to October, Health and Human
Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  has said.  The government has announced programs totaling about $212
million to promote the law, including grants to federally funded
health clinics to hire people who will help patients sign up for
insurance. Sebelius’ department said today that 1,159 clinics
will be awarded grants of at least $59,000, and may enroll as
many as 3.7 million people into the health law’s insurance
expansions.  “We have a robust plan to get the job done,” Sebelius
told reporters in a conference call today.  The administration has complained that efforts to do more
have been stymied by congressional Republicans, none of whom
voted for the health law. Republicans have refused to approve
more funding for implementation and they opened an investigation
into Sebelius’s urging of corporate support for a nonprofit,
Enroll America, that has been handling some promotion.  NFL Talks  Sebelius stumbled again last month when she told reporters
she had discussed a partnership with the NFL to promote the law.
Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  wrote to
the NFL on June 28 demanding to know more about the talks. A
league spokesman,  Greg Aiello , then denied there had been any
“substantive” discussions and said there were no plans to help
promote the law.  The exchanges will sell insurance online and over the phone
from companies such as Indianapolis-based WellPoint. People who
lack coverage through their jobs will be eligible for tax
credits to help pay monthly premiums if they make less than four
times the poverty level -- about $94,000 for a family of four.  The plans begin Jan. 1, when the law requires most
Americans to carry insurance. About 7 million people are
expected to enroll in exchange plans next year, rising to 25
million by 2018, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  The law also encourages states to expand their Medicaid
programs for the poor to cover people earning close to poverty-level wages. About 24 states have refused so far, Sebelius said
on June 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  