-- What Egypt Can Learn From Iraq, and Vice Versa
-- B y   M e g h a n   L .   O ’ S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-07-10T20:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/what-egypt-can-learn-from-iraq-and-vice-versa.html
While arguing over the merits of
continuing U.S. aid to  Egypt , commentators and analysts tend to
agree on two main points. First, there is a general consensus on
what President Mohamed Mursi and the Muslim Brotherhood got
wrong. Second, virtually all Western observers are stressing the
need for an inclusive government in Egypt. In the first point,
Egypt offers a lesson to Iraq and, in the second, Iraq offers a
lesson to Egypt. Together, they point to the direction U.S.
policy should take.  Events in  Egypt  show that majoritarian democracy doesn’t
work in transitional societies. Even when a party has won a
commanding electoral victory -- which wasn’t the case in Egypt
-- it must still seek continued legitimacy by addressing the
needs and desires of those outside its direct constituency.
Because of the weakness of other institutions in transitional
societies, a strict majoritarian democracy is likely to leave
certain populations more powerless than they would be in mature
democracies. And political alienation breeds discontent and
impatience, as we saw on Egypt’s streets last week.  Mursi governed Egypt as if his slim electoral victory gave
him a mandate to transform the country into the state that the
Muslim Brotherhood envisioned, regardless of the wishes of the
rest of Egyptians. Rather than seeking to build a national
consensus for Egypt’s path, he dismissed the opposition as
powerless, and invested his energy in co-opting or marginalizing
the security establishment and the judiciary -- Egypt’s two
other bases of political power. His naked assertion of power at
the end of last year to force through an Islamist constitution
was, for many Egyptians, the last straw. Although the specific
mode of Mursi’s downfall -- a military coup ushered in by
popular protests -- surprised many, the end of Egyptian
tolerance for Mursi shocked few.  Alienating Partners  So what does this have to do with  Iraq ? The lesson is
clear. Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki has explicitly and
repeatedly stated his desire to move to a majoritarian democracy
there. Frustrated by the constraints of the national unity
government over which he presides, Maliki no doubt dreams about
governing without the need to consult with members of other
political parties, ethnicities and sects. Although he hasn’t
turfed out his coalition members in a formal sense, his actions
of the last eight months -- from seeking the arrest of Sunni
politicians to placing important elements of the army under his
direct command -- have alienated his once-partners and taken on
an authoritarian hue.  Maliki, if he draws a lesson from Egypt, will probably
focus on the dangers of a strong, independent military -- an
obvious takeaway from an Iraqi perspective, given its history of
coups. But one also hopes Maliki realizes that in divided,
transitional societies -- of which Iraq is still one -- a
majoritarian democracy can’t maintain the legitimacy it needs to
govern over the long term; continuing to move in that direction
will be an overreach for Maliki, and probably a fatal one.
Aspiring rulers of highly divided  Syria  should also take note.  Oddly enough, this historical juncture also gives us an
opportunity to reflect not only on what Iraq has gotten wrong (a
familiar pastime), but also on what it has done well, or at
least better than it might have. Those of us involved with
helping the Iraqis craft their initial post-Saddam Hussein
institutions often wonder if the country had been saddled with
entities that prioritized consensus-building so much that it
made it almost impossible to govern. (Maliki and previous
post-2003 Iraqi prime ministers would certainly agree.) Events
in Egypt have brought clarity to this thought, suggesting that
Iraq’s transitional institutions were the best option amid two
poor choices, the other of which was a much more explosive, less
sustainable majoritarian democracy.  Forcing Cooperation  For Egypt, Iraq’s experience sheds light on the
complexities of power-sharing. Some watching Egypt may think
that this sort of cooperation simply involves appointing a
minister from the Muslim Brotherhood in the interim government.
In a society as divided as Egypt’s, this won’t be sufficient.  Iraq’s early institutions (from 2004-2005) embodied
complicated formulas -- not explicitly to divide power among
sectarian groups as many people mistakenly think, but to ensure
that the majority couldn’t make decisions without the consent of
the minorities. For instance, all decisions of the three-person
presidency council, elected by parliament according to a formula
that essentially assured a Sunni, Shiite and Kurdish
representative, had to be unanimous. Although this institution
lapsed once Iraq’s permanent constitution was in place, other
mechanisms endure, such as the supermajority needed to select a
prime minister and the tradition of having virtually all parties
in parliament represented in the cabinet.  No question, Iraq’s journey of governance has been far from
impressive or smooth. Yet the most turbulent political times
have been when its government has sought to degrade, circumvent
or ignore the imperative of power-sharing; again, Maliki’s
flirtation with majoritarian government has been the primary
source of political instability over the past year. And power-sharing, no doubt, is not the best way to deliver responsive
government; particularly in severely divided societies, there is
a clear trade-off between inclusivity and efficiency, something
to which even the European Union can attest. The mistake is
thinking that, in transitional societies such as Iraq or Egypt,
the option of a government capable of making quick decisions
without broad consultations is a realistic one.  If possible to imagine, Egypt’s challenges in forming an
inclusive government may be more difficult than Iraq’s were at
the overthrow of Hussein. Iraq had the U.S. and its coalition
partners to help it agree on the structure of the transition;
with U.S. brokering, in early 2004, 25 Iraqis from all
backgrounds unanimously came to agreement on a road map called
the Transitional Administrative Law -- effectively an interim
constitution that defined governance for the multiyear political
transition. Although imperfect in many respects, all parties
adhered to the specifics of this plan until Iraq formed a new
government under a nationally ratified constitution written in
2006.  Crafting Agreements  Unlike Iraq, Egypt is pretty much on its own. And arrests
of Muslim Brotherhood leadership and silencing of media
sympathetic to it suggest that power-sharing is not a top
priority for Egypt’s new leaders.  Who will change their minds -- inside or outside Egypt?
Perhaps no one. But the U.S., while being in no position to
broker an agreement, should be clear at least about what needs
to be done: the crafting of a power-sharing agreement focused on
not just holding elections but also building and restoring
institutions that will be sustainable no matter the future
electoral outcomes. Anything short of real power-sharing during
this transition will almost certainly lead the Muslim
Brotherhood and its followers to conclude that there is no room
for Islamists in democracy, fueling what could be a very long
cycle of political instability and violence.  (Meghan L. O’Sullivan, a professor at Harvard University’s
Kennedy School of Government and former deputy national security
adviser in the George W. Bush administration, is a Bloomberg
View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Meghan L. O’Sullivan at  Meghan_OSullivan@hks.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
David Shipley at  djshipley@bloomberg.net . 