-- Wholesale Inventories Unexpectedly Drop as U.S. Sales Surge
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-07-10T14:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/wholesale-inventories-in-u-s-unexpectedly-drop-as-sales-surge.html
Inventories (MWINCHNG)  at U.S. wholesalers
unexpectedly declined in May by the most since September 2011 as
 sales (MWSLCHNG)  surged, pointing to a pickup in orders and production.  The 0.5 percent decrease in stockpiles followed a 0.1
percent drop in April that was initially reported as a gain, the
Commerce Department said today in Washington. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for a 0.3 percent
increase. Sales jumped 1.6 percent, the most since November.  At the current sales pace, wholesalers had enough goods on
hand to last 1.18 months, the fewest since April 2012, the
report showed. Lean inventories, which may contribute less to
second-quarter growth, suggest companies will boost orders to
factories to keep pace with growing demand.  “With the drawdown in inventories, if the pace of sales is
maintained, we’ll see a pickup in production,” said  Millan Mulraine , director of U.S. rates research at TD Securities USA
LLC in New York. The sales figures show “we’re ending the
second quarter on fairly strong footing.”  Mulraine said he expects demand to be sustained as the
effect of a higher payroll tax abates,  consumer confidence 
improves and the labor market strengthens.  Estimates of the 30 economists in the Bloomberg survey for
May wholesale inventories ranged from no change to a 0.9 percent
increase after a previously reported 0.2 percent gain in April.  Wholesalers’ stockpiles of  durable goods , or those meant to
last several years, fell 0.3 percent, the biggest decrease since
December 2009. Sales of durables climbed 0.3 percent. Purchases
of automobiles jumped 3 percent, the most in more than a year,
while inventories were little changed.  The value of unsold non-durable goods slumped 0.8 percent
as purchases increased 2.8 percent, the most since March 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  Washington  at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  