-- Why Does Al Jazeera Love a Hateful Islamic Extremist?
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-07-10T17:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/why-does-al-jazeera-love-a-hateful-islamic-extremist-.html
So, it hasn’t been the best week for
 Al Jazeera , the television network owned by Qatar’s despotic
ruling family, for the same reason that it hasn’t been a great
week for the despotic ruling family itself: the ouster of
 Egypt ’s president, Mohamed Mursi, the bumpkin fundamentalist.  Qatar pumped  a lot of money  into Mursi’s Muslim Brotherhood
government, and for what? The Qatari royal family should sue the
Brotherhood for malfeasance. So much hope was riding on Mursi’s
experiment in political Islam. Although Qatar spreads the risk
around a bit -- it has  provided  millions of dollars to Islamists
in  Syria  and to the Palestinian  terrorist group Hamas  (now
there’s an investment in the future) -- Mursi represented its
main chance to advance the cause of Islamic fundamentalism.  And now, to add insult to financial injury,  Saudi Arabia 
just  promised  post-Mursi Egypt $5 billion, and the  United Arab
Emirates , another of Qatar’s main rivals, has  kicked in  $3
billion.  As for Al Jazeera, which is  scheduled  to introduce its
American network next month in place of  Al Gore ’s hapless
Current TV, well, let’s put it this way: It will certainly be
more popular among Americans than it is among Egyptians. Which
isn’t saying much.  Journalists Protest  The millions of Egyptians who rose up against Mursi’s rule
also aired their feelings about Al Jazeera’s breathless pro-Muslim Brotherhood coverage. The harsh criticism directed at the
network prompted Egyptian reporters  to expel  Al Jazeera
reporters from a recent news conference, and led several
journalists to  quit  Al Jazeera’s Egypt operation, apparently to
protest its obvious bias.  One of the correspondents who quit, Haggag Salama,  accused 
his ex-bosses of “airing lies and misleading viewers.” The
journalist Abdel Latif el-Menawy is reported to have called Al
Jazeera a “propaganda channel” for the  Muslim Brotherhood . It’s
possible that some of the journalists who quit did so as a
matter of self-preservation; the Egyptian military is behaving
in predictably heavy-handed ways toward journalists it doesn’t
like. But it’s also entirely plausible that they quit because
they couldn’t abide Qatari government interference in their
reporting.  If it’s been a bad week for Qatar and Al Jazeera, it’s been
a very bad week for the network’s star broadcaster, the
televangelist Yusuf al-Qaradawi, a Sunni cleric who is a
spiritual leader of the Muslim Brotherhood. Qaradawi has been Al
Jazeera’s most important star for many years. His show, “Shariah
and Life,” is seen by millions across the Middle East.  As I  reported  this week, Qaradawi is an extremist’s
extremist: He  endorses  female genital mutilation (he doesn’t
refer to it that way, of course); he has called for the
 punishment  of gay people; he has provided  theological
justification  to insurgents who targeted American troops for
death in Iraq (though he’s hypocritically silent on the decision
of his Qatari patrons to allow the U.S. to locate a Central
Command headquarters on their soil); he has defended the idea
that the penalty for some Muslims who leave Islam should be
death; and also, by the way, he believes that Hitler’s Final
Solution was a  nifty idea .  ‘Real Revolution’  Over the past week, Qaradawi has seen his dream of Muslim
Brotherhood rule in the Arab world’s most important country
dissolve, and he has had to endure a special sort of humiliation
-- his own son, a prominent Egyptian reformer, accused him, in
essence, of being a stooge for the power-mad Mursi. Shortly
after Qaradawi issued a  religious ruling  calling the Egyptian
army coup that unseated Mursi illegitimate, and demanding that
all good Muslims work to reinstate the Muslim Brotherhood-led
government, his son, Abdul Rahman Yusuf al Qaradawi, accused his
father in a letter of not knowing what he’s talking about.  Referring to Mursi, the  younger Qaradawi wrote : “We agreed
with him that he would install a participatory government but he
didn’t keep his word. We agreed with him that he would clean up
the police force but he didn’t do that. We agreed with him that
he would be president of all Egyptians but he disappointed us.”
He went on to scold his father: “You haven’t seen a real
revolution like the one that is happening in Egypt now. The
views and ideas that the present generation of the Egyptians
have are totally different from the ones that people of your
generation had.”  This letter is the most encouraging thing I’ve read all
week. I certainly hope the younger Qaradawi is correct: The
world would be a better place if young Arabs across the  Middle
East  saw the Muslim Brotherhood for what it is: a totalitarian,
fundamentalist, misogynistic cult.  The world would also be a better place if  Al Jazeera 
understood this. The network says that its American branch will
be focused on fearless and serious reporting, and Al Jazeera is
hiring some very fine journalists to staff the new channel. My
advice to them, if they’re interested in maintaining their
integrity while in the employ of the Brotherhood-supporting
despots who rule Qatar, is to pursue a story that asks the
following questions: Who, exactly, is our colleague Yusuf al-Qaradawi? What does he believe? And why do our owners provide
him with a global platform for the advancement of his hatred?  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  jgoldberg50@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 