-- Two Koreas Agree to Next Round of Talks on Reviving Factory Zone
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-07-10T10:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/two-koreas-meet-to-seal-deal-on-joint-factory-park-revival.html
North and  South Korea  agreed to
another round of talks over reviving work at the Gaeseong
industrial park after failing to reach a deal on the factory
zone that was shut in April as tensions spiked in the region.  The two sides will meet July 15 at the factory park about
10 kilometers (6 miles) north of the demilitarized zone, the
South’s chief negotiator, Suh Ho, said after seven hours of
talks at the site today, according to a Unification Ministry
transcript of his remarks.  The decision left the door open for more reconciliation, as
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has toned down his rhetoric in
the weeks since withdrawing his workers from Gaeseong in April.
That move, meant to protest tightened United Nations sanctions
over its nuclear weapons program and U.S.-South Korean military
drills, followed threats of atomic strikes and denied Kim’s
regime a key source of hard currency.  “The two sides are in a tug of war right now, and
ultimately the North is at a disadvantage because it desperately
needs the cash from Gaeseong,” said Chon Hyun Joon, senior
research fellow at the state-run Korea Institute for National
Unification in  Seoul . “There is always a possibility that the
North may again resort to raising tensions to threaten South
Korea into doing what it wants the South to do, but that doesn’t
seem likely for now.”  The South urged the North to take measures to prevent
future closures, while the North called on the South to stop
doing anything -- such as conducting military exercises -- that
hinders operations at Gaeseong, Suh said.  Facilities Survey  Sixty businessmen returned to the South after surveying
facilities for rain damage and packing up completed goods they
left behind when North Korea shut Gaeseong April 8.  The North’s chief envoy, Pak Chol Su, arrived for the talks
in a Volkswagen Passat with a Pyongyang license plate and wore a
red badge with portraits of the late  Kim Il Sung  and  Kim Jong Il 
on his lapel, according to a pool report. North Korea doesn’t
allow non-Korean media at inter-Korean meetings held in the
North.  North Korean laborers plucked weeds in front of the talks
venue, the pool report said. Two clock towers on the way to
Gaeseong displayed the wrong time and a refrigerator in the
cafeteria was empty save for some mayonnaise and other
condiments.  Today’s meeting is “the first step toward building
trust,” Suh said. “It is raining heavily and I’m very worried
about the state of companies’ facilities and materials.”  Thirty-six administrators from Gaeseong’s management
committee,  KT Corp. (033780) ,  Korea Electric Power Corp. (015760)  and Korea Water
Resources Corp. joined the businessmen at Gaeseong to check
phone, water, electricity and other management issues, according
to the ministry. One company reported a leak in the ceiling that
a North Korean worker went in to fix, the pool report said.  North Korea  has often reneged on its commitments, test-firing a missile last year and scrapping a plan for inter-Korean
dialogue last month, days after proposing talks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  