-- Wockhardt Barred From Making Drugs for Europe, U.K. Agency Says
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2013-07-10T04:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/wockhardt-barred-from-making-drugs-for-europe-u-k-agency-says.html
Wockhardt Ltd. (WPL) , an Indian maker of
insulin and hepatitis vaccines, was barred from making drugs for
 Europe  after its Waluj factory failed to meet some guidelines
from the U.K. regulator.  The U.K.’s Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory
Agency is working with Wockhardt, the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  and other international regulators to help
resolve the issues so production can resume, the U.K. agency
said in an e-mail yesterday. The statement of non-compliance for
the plant covers medicines to Europe and the U.K., it said.  The ban adds to restrictions on exports by Wockhardt after
U.S. regulators in May barred drugs from the same factory, a
move that Chairman Habil Khorakiwala said would cut about $100
million from the company’s revenue in the year started April 1.
The U.K. agency first announced July 5 that Wockhardt’s Waluj
plant didn’t meet some manufacturing guidelines.  Daryl Suchitha, a spokesman for Wockhardt, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail and a phone call to his office
seeking comment today.  Wockhardt rose 1.3 percent to 925 rupees as of 9:44 a.m. in
Mumbai trading, paring its loss to 41 percent this year.  India ’s
benchmark Sensitive index was little changed today.  Europe contributed 28 percent of Wockhardt’s 46 billion
rupees ($765 million) revenue in the 12 months ended March 31,
2012, according to the Mumbai-based drugmaker’s annual report.  Khorakiwala on July 5 addressed only the impact of the
agency’s restrictions on the U.K. market. “The products will be
available to be shipped from alternative sites, thereby having
negligible impact on the financials,” he said in a statement
that day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  