-- Worst Dim Sum Baosteel Shows Smokestack Troubles
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-10T02:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/worst-dim-sum-baosteel-shows-smokestack-troubles.html
Baosteel Group Corp. was the worst-performing high-grade corporate Dim Sum bond in the past month
as Premier  Li Keqiang  sacrifices economic growth during a
shakeup of smokestack industries.  The yield on March 2017 debt of Baosteel,  China ’s third-largest steelmaker, rose 102 basis points and touched a record
4.87 percent on July 5, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
was the most among non-financial issuers on HSBC Holdings Plc’s
investment-grade Dim Sum index, as  average yields  on the yuan
debt sold offshore climbed 79 basis points to 4.01 percent. U.S.
industrial companies pay 2.43 percent for three- to five-year
debt, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  A record cash crunch has prompted Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
to cut its 2013 growth forecast for China, as Nomura Holdings
Inc. warns of defaults among companies with idle plants. Premier
Li wants to bring forward a target of eliminating outdated
capacity in steel, aluminum and cement to the end of 2014, the
State Council said in a June 14 release.  “China has been restricting capital flows into high
polluting and overcapacity industries,” said Mei Luwu, a
Shenzhen-based  fund manager  at Lion Fund Management Co., which
overseas more than 40 billion  yuan  ($6.5 billion). “We’re not
optimistic on the steel industry’s fundamentals such as earnings
and  cash flow . It’s understandable that investors don’t like
steel bonds in general.”  The yield on government 10-year debt was little changed at
3.52 percent on July 9 in  Shanghai , after rising 7 basis points
to 3.51 percent in June, ChinaBond data show. That on similar-maturity AAA corporate debt rose was 5.11 percent yesterday,
after climbing 8 basis points  last month to 5.12 percent.
Yields on automaker bonds rose 43 basis points in June, while
those on real-estate developers increased 18 basis points,
according to Merrill indexes.  Halted Expansion  China’s economic planners have sought to rein in  steel
industry  growth since at least 2004, when work on a 10.6 billion
yuan project in the eastern province of Jiangsu was halted. Yet
annual capacity has risen to 970 million metric tons, according
to the steel association, exceeding the industry’s output of
716.5 million tons in 2012. Output is seven times larger than
that of  Japan , the No. 2 producer.  “Industries that face overcapacity problems will likely go
through a tough restructuring in the second half and we expect
these industries to experience corporate defaults,” Nomura
economist Zhang Zhiwei wrote in a June 20 note.  Industry Crackdown  Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli said on May 15 that China would
“strictly forbid” approval of steel, cement, aluminum-smelter
and ship-building projects, according to the central
government’s website. Severe punishment will be meted out to
steel companies that sidestep regulations since they pollute the
air “heavily,” the Economic Information Daily reported July 1,
citing Liu Bingjiang, an official at the Ministry of
Environmental Protection.  Investors are cautious toward steel bonds because of
ratings downgrades, according to a spokesperson for China
International Fund Management Co., a Shanghai-based  money
manager  with 71.7 billion yuan of assets.  Standard & Poor’s 
lowered Baosteel’s stand-alone credit profile to bbb- from bbb,
while affirming its A- rating because of state support  “We believe continuing challenges in the Chinese steel
industry and Baosteel’s significant capital spending will limit
any major improvement in the company’s financial strength,” S&P
said in a June 13 statement. “The intense competition in the
steel industry in China constrains domestic steel prices.”  Rating Downgrades  Moody’s Investors Service on July 4 downgraded the senior
unsecured rating of China Oriental Group Co., a Hong Kong-listed
Chinese steel producer, to Ba3 from Ba2, with a negative
outlook. The company’s August 2015 dollar-denominated notes fell
1.6 percent in the past month, based on prices from Trace, as
the yield jumped 118 basis points to 8.74 percent.  The Chinese prices for hot-rolled coil, a benchmark steel
product, have declined 16 percent to 3,533 yuan a metric ton on
July 8 from 4,212 yuan on Feb. 18, according to Beijing Antaike
Information Industry Co., amid an industry overcapacity, slowing
demand and high inventories. Prices reached an eight-month low
of 3,436 yuan on May 31.  Tracking the industry slowdown may be harder after China
suspended the publication of industry-specific data from monthly
surveys of manufacturing purchasing managers. Steel demand
appeared to be “softening” with mills and traders reporting
order declines, Macquarie Group Ltd. wrote in a report July 4.  Demand Forecasts  Demand for  iron ore  and steel from China may grow by 5
percent in coming months, compared with 10 percent in the first
five months of this year, Jose Carlos Martins,  executive
director  for ferrous and strategy for Vale SA, the world’s
biggest iron ore producer, said June 14.  Five-year credit-default swaps insuring China’s sovereign
debt against non-payment climbed four basis points this week to
122 on July 9 in  New York , and touched a 17-month high of 147 on
June 24, according to CMA prices. The contracts pay the buyer
face value in exchange for underlying securities or the cash
equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The yuan fell 0.06 percent to 6.1333 per dollar in Shanghai
today after official data showed exports unexpectedly fell in
June. Overseas sales declined 3.1 percent from a year earlier,
compared with the median forecast for a 3.7 percent gain in a
Bloomberg News survey and a 1 percent increase in May. The
currency’s appreciation has stalled in the past month.  “The slowdown in the GDP growth rate and the shift in
economic growth drivers pose challenges for China’s state-owned
enterprises,” Moody’s senior analyst Kai Hu said in a May 27
release. “The credit profiles of SOEs facing overcapacity
problems in competitive industries, such as steel, building
materials, and heavy equipment manufacturing, and those that
have a heavy debt burden will be particularly vulnerable.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  