-- WTI Crude Futures Slip From 15-Month High on IEA Report
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-07-11T12:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/wti-oil-advances-for-a-third-day-as-u-s-crude-stockpiles-plunge.html
West Texas Intermediate slipped from
the highest level in 15 months after the  International Energy
Agency  predicted that global oil supply will outstrip demand
growth next year.  The retreat in WTI futures allowed the grade’s discount to
North Sea Brent to widen again after reaching its narrowest
since November 2010. Oil production in non-OPEC countries will
expand in 2014 at the fastest pace in 20 years in 2014, the IEA
said today. U.S.  crude inventories  dropped by 9.87 million
barrels last week, the Energy Department said yesterday, more
than three times as much as the 3.2 million forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The IEA report is highlighting a bearish bias relative to
the supply-demand balance as they introduce for the first time a
view for 2014,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , BNP’s head of
commodity markets strategy in  London .  WTI for August delivery declined as much as 82 cents, or
0.8 percent, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was $105.91 at 12:56 p.m. London time. Earlier it
climbed 93 cents to $107.45 a barrel, the highest since March
27, 2012. The volume of all WTI futures traded was more than
double the 100-day average.  Brent Premium  The U.S. grade’s discount to Brent, the European benchmark,
narrowed in intraday trading to as little as $1.32 a barrel, the
smallest gap since Nov. 15, 2010. Brent for August settlement
lost as much as 57 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $107.94 a barrel on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The Brent-WTI price spread has decreased this year from as
much as $23.18 a barrel on Feb. 8 as the U.S. reduced
distribution bottlenecks that had boosted inventories. Total
U.S. crude inventories declined to 373.9 million barrels, the
lowest level since February, in the week ended July 5, the
Energy Information Administration said yesterday. Supplies  fell 
by 10.3 million barrels in the prior seven days, the biggest
weekly decrease this year, according to the EIA, the Energy
Department’s statistical unit.  Refineries  operated  at 92.4 percent of capacity, up 0.2 of
a percentage point from the prior week and the highest rate
since August, the EIA data shows. U.S. motor-fuel demand
typically rises from the last weekend in May until the Labor Day
weekend in early September, the nation’s peak vacation season.  IEA Report  World oil consumption will climb by 1.2 million barrels a
day next year, up from 930,000 a day in 2013, the Paris-based
IEA said in its first monthly report with forecasts for 2014.
Supplies from outside the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries will jump by 1.3 million barrels a day amid booming
output in  North America , curbing the need for crude from the 12-member producer group, according to the report.  Nigeria is “quite comfortable” with current WTI and Brent
prices, which may be stable for at least the next 12 months,
Petroleum Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke said in an interview
in Beijing today. Nigeria is the largest oil producer in  Africa .  WTI surged above $100 a barrel on July 3 for the first time
since September as  Egypt ’s political upheaval heightened concern
that unrest in the most populous Arab country will spread and
disrupt Middle Eastern oil supplies. Shipping traffic through
the Suez Canal is continuing normally today, with 43 vessels
transiting the waterway, according to the  Suez Canal  Authority.  Egypt ordered the arrest of the  Muslim Brotherhood  leader,
escalating a confrontation between Islamists and an army-backed
interim administration. Egyptian prosecutors sought Mohammed Badie, the general guide of the Muslim Brotherhood, and nine
other Islamists on allegations they incited deadly clashes after
the ouster of Mohamed Mursi as president. Hamza Zawba, a
spokesman for the Brotherhood’s political arm, repeated its
position that it won’t engage in talks until Mursi is
reinstated.  “The main wildcard is the geopolitical factor, mainly
Egypt at this current juncture,” Barnabas Gan, an analyst for
treasury research and strategy at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp.
in  Singapore .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  