-- Yahoo CEO’s Popularity Slips After One Year, Survey Shows
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-07-10T21:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/yahoo-ceo-s-popularity-slips-after-one-year-survey-shows.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  Chief Executive Officer
Marissa Mayer’s popularity among employees of the largest U.S.
Internet portal has slipped since she took the reins one year
ago, according to research by Glassdoor Inc.  Eighty-four percent of Yahoo staff approved of Mayer’s
leadership in the second quarter of this year, down from 91
percent in the third quarter of 2012, her first three-month
period as CEO, according to data distributed today by the job
hunting  site . Glassdoor collected data from 179 anonymous
reviews posted on its site by staff working for the Sunnyvale,
California-based company.  Mayer has worked to improve employee morale as part of her
effort to build new applications and services that lure users
and advertisers lost to Google Inc. and Facebook Inc. While
perks such as free food and extended leave for new parents may
have helped her achieve an average approval rating of 85 percent
over the past three quarters, the dip in her rating since last
year suggests enthusiasm generated by Mayer’s hiring has cooled.  Reviews critical of Mayer’s leadership included a complaint
about the hiring approval process -- which now takes an average
of 22 days, up from eight days in the year prior to her arrival
at the company, according to Glassdoor.  One Glassdoor user, identifying themselves as an operations
business manager at the company, also complained about Mayer’s
directive in February which asked all employees working from
home to begin reporting to offices.  Less Popular  In the second quarter, Mayer was less popular with her
employees than rival CEOs including Facebook’s  Mark Zuckerberg ,
with a 90 percent approval; Google’s  Larry Page , with 98 percent
approval; and  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) ’s  Jeff Weiner , with 89 percent
approval.  Ross Levinsohn , Yahoo’s interim CEO who preceded Mayer’s
hiring, had the highest cumulative approval rating at the
company after Mayer, with 76 percent, since Glassdoor began
collecting the data.  Scott Thompson , CEO before Levinsohn, had a
48 percent rating, while his predecessors Timothy Morse and
Carol Bartz had ratings of 42 percent and 54 percent
respectively.  Employee satisfaction at Yahoo is higher than during the
tenures of Thompson and Bartz, Glassdoor’s data showed. The
approval ratings of those CEOs also declined after their hiring.  Sara Gorman, a spokeswoman for Yahoo, did not immediately
respond to a request for comment.  All Glassdoor’s data is based on individual postings on its
site by staff at Yahoo and other companies tracked by the job-seekers’ website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  