-- Yum Profit Tops Estimates as KFC’s China Sales Drop Slows
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-07-11T20:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-10/yum-profit-tops-estimates-as-kfc-s-china-sales-drop-slows.html
Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , owner of the KFC
and Pizza Hut restaurant chains, posted second-quarter profit
that topped analysts’ estimates as sales in China began to
recover from the avian flu scare and a probe of a supplier.  Net income  fell 15 percent to $281 million, or 61 cents a
share, from $331 million, or 69 cents, a year earlier, the
Louisville, Kentucky-based company said yesterday in a
statement. Excluding some items, profit was 56 cents a share.
The average of 22 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was
54 cents.  Yum has faced a backlash in China at KFC after an outbreak
of avian flu scared diners away from poultry and a former
chicken supplier was investigated for selling food with too much
antibiotics. Sales at Chinese stores open at least 12 months
fell 10 percent in June. That was less than the 12 percent
decline estimated by analysts surveyed by Consensus Metrix and
better than drops of 19 percent in May and 29 percent in April.  “They are discounting, promoting and advertising pretty
heavily to try to get people back into the restaurants” in
 China , Peter Saleh, a New York-based analyst at Telsey Advisory
Group, said in an interview. “Once you get the traffic, I think
you’ll be OK.”  Still,  revenue  fell 8.3 percent to $2.9 billion, after
dropping 7.6 percent in the first quarter. Analysts estimated
$2.92 billion, on average. Yum gets about 50 percent of its
sales from China, where it has more than 5,400 KFC and Pizza Hut
locations.  The shares fell 1.1 percent to $71.53 at the close in  New
York . Yum has  advanced  7.7 percent this year, compared with a 17
percent gain for the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Restaurants Index.  Forecast Reiterated  Yum, which has more than 39,000 stores worldwide,
reiterated its  forecast  that 2013 profit excluding certain items
would decline at a “mid-single digit” percentage rate.  “China sales are recovering as expected,” Chief Executive
Officer  David Novak  said in yesterday’s statement. “The
extensive media surrounding avian flu in China has subsided.”  While same-store sales in China declined 20 percent in the
second quarter, the company projects that they will rise in the
fourth quarter. Yum has been airing 30-second television
commercials touting the quality of its chicken to Chinese
consumers.  In the U.S., comparable-store sales rose 1 percent during
the quarter, while analysts estimated a 1.4 percent increase,
according to Consensus Metrix, a researcher owned by Wayne, New
Jersey-based Kaul Advisory Group. Same-store sales advanced 2
percent in  India  and 1 percent at other international stores.  Comparable-store sales are considered an indicator of
growth because they include only older, established locations.  Yum’s Taco Bell chain, which has about 5,700 domestic
units, has been introducing new items to draw American diners
from  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and  Burger King Worldwide Inc. (BKW)  stores. The
Mexican-fare chain recently tested egg-stuffed taco waffles in
California and also a $1 Cravings Menu that it may roll out
later this year across the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  