-- T-Mobile May Get IPhone in 2013, Bernstein Analyst Says
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-07-10T21:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/t-mobile-may-get-apple-iphone-next-year-bernstein-analyst-says.html
T-Mobile USA  Inc., the nation’s
fourth-largest wireless carrier, could use parent  Deutsche
Telekom AG’s (DTE)  sales agreement with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to sell the iPhone
in 2013, Sanford C. Bernstein’s  Craig Moffett  said.  Apple and Deutsche Telekom are “increasingly likely” to
reach an agreement for T-Mobile to sell iPhones in the U.S. next
year, Moffett, a New York-based analyst, wrote in a research
note today.  Without the iPhone, T-Mobile has struggled to keep
lucrative contract customers. The carrier lost 510,000 monthly
subscribers in the first quarter while rivals  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
Verizon Wireless together added 688,000 so-called post-paid
customers. More than half of the smartphones sold at AT&T and
Verizon in the first quarter were iPhones.  “IPhone availability at T-Mobile USA would likely reduce
contract losses at that company, and push Deutsche Telekom U.S.
to a net revenue growth position much sooner than the market
expects,” Moffett wrote.  Apple has traditionally made iPhone sales agreements with
carriers in specific countries. These agreements include volume
commitments, such as  Sprint Nextel Corp.’s (S)  four-year, $15.5
billion iPhone deal last year that requires Sprint to sell about
30 million iPhones.  Courting Apple  Apple shares fell 0.9 percent to close at $608.21 in New
York. The stock is up 50 percent this year.  Deutsche Telekom
advanced less than one percent to 8.58 euros in Frankfurt. The
shares have declined 3.2 percent this year.  This year Apple has expanded its iPhone agreements beyond
top-tier players. Regional pay-as-you-go provider  Leap Wireless
International Inc. (LEAP)  and Sprint’s Virgin Mobile USA have started
selling the iPhone with prepaid plans.  Natalie Harrison , an Apple spokeswoman, and David
Henderson, a spokesman for T-Mobile USA, both declined to
comment.  The move to prepaid service suggests Apple is looking for
more fuel to feed its iPhone growth, said Walt Piecyk, an
analyst with BTIG LLC.  “Apple might be more willing to reduce their required
commitment if sales are cooling,” Piecyk said in an e-mail.  One hurdle for T-Mobile is that its network hasn’t been
compatible with any of the current iPhones. That has started to
change as Deutsche Telekom pledged $1.4 billion toward network
upgrades in the U.S.  The so-called fourth-generation wireless technology
expansion has been key to Deutsche Telekom’s renewed effort to
revive growth at T-Mobile USA and accommodate the iPhone. In a
March 12 blog entry, T-Mobile’s Chief Technology Officer Neville
Ray said “our 4G network will be compatible with a broader
range of devices, including the iPhone.”  NI CAB
NI MED
NI TVNEWS
NI INTERNET
NI TEL
NI TLS
NI WRLS
NI TX
NI US
NI COS
NI NET
NI FIRST
NI EXCLUSIVE  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  