-- M&S Clothing Chief Bostock to Step Down After Sales Slump
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-07-10T13:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/m-s-says-general-merchandise-head-to-leave-after-sales-slide.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc, (MKS)  the
U.K.’s largest clothing retailer, said general-merchandise chief
Kate Bostock will step down as part of a management shake-up
following the biggest decline in non-food revenue since 2008.  Bostock will leave on Oct. 1 after more than eight years at
the company, and be succeeded by John Dixon, head of the food
unit. Belinda Earl, a former chief executive officer of
competitor  Debenhams (DEB)  Plc, will join as style director, the
London-based retailer also said today in a statement.  Bostock departs amid a slump in sales of clothing as Marks
& Spencer loses ground to competitors such as Debenhams and John
Lewis Partnership Plc in women’s fashion. Same-store sales of
general merchandise, which is mostly apparel, fell 6.8 percent
in the first quarter ended June 30, the company said today. The
worsening performance ratchets up the pressure on Chief
Executive Officer  Marc Bolland , who joined in May 2010 with a
mandate to revive sales after two years of declining growth.  “It’s disappointing that Kate Bostock has not actually
produced the improvement investors were looking for,” said  Paul Mumford , a  fund manager  at Cavendish Asset Management, who holds
M&S stock. “We need a bit of management stability.”  Bostock, 55, is leaving “by mutual consent” as part of a
planned transition, Bolland said on a conference call.  Surprise Appointment  While Bostock’s departure had been predicted in the media,
the appointment of Earl is a surprise. Earl, 50, started her
career at Harrods and worked for almost two decades at
Debenhams, the last three years as CEO. Most recently, she was
CEO of Jaeger Group Ltd. She joins Marks & Spencer on Sept. 1.  “She probably understands the challenges of serving the
U.K. woman better than most,” Caroline Gulliver, an analyst at
Espirito Santo in  London , said in a note today.  Among other management changes announced by Marks & Spencer
today, Steve Rowe, who is currently director of retail, will
succeed Dixon as head of the food unit. Patrick Bousquet-
Chavanne, a former group president of Estee Lauder Cos., will
join the company on Sept. 1 in the new role of corporate
director of strategy implementation.  “These changes should help to restore some stability at a
critical time for M&S, but may take time to bed in,”  Matthew McEachran , an analyst at Singer Capital Markets, said in a note.  Record Rainfall  Marks & Spencer rose 2.9 percent to 330.4 pence at 2 p.m.
in London trading. The shares have fallen 9.8 percent since
Bolland joined as CEO from William Morrison Supermarkets Plc.  About 4.63 percent of shareholders who voted at today’s
annual general meeting in London opposed re-electing Bolland as
a director. That was more than the 3.74 percent who voted
against the retailer’s remuneration report.  “Marc Bolland is fighting for his own job,”  Nick Bubb , an
independent retail analyst, said by e-mail.  U.K. same-store sales fell 2.8 percent in the first
quarter, the company said today, compared with the median
analyst estimate for a 2.5 percent drop.  Britain’s double-dip recession and record April rainfall
hurt business at most fashion retailers in the period. The
short-term business outlook remains “challenging,” Marks &
Spencer said, though it maintained forecasts for the year.  General merchandise underperformed the market in the
quarter, with women’s wear losing share in the value category,
Marks & Spencer said. At 10.4 percent, the company’s slice of
the 39-billion pound ($61 billion) women’s clothing market is
almost a full percentage point lower than it was five years ago.  A failure to buy enough stock caused a shortage of some
popular lines such as casual summer sweaters, which it could
have sold 60,000 more of in the quarter, Chief Financial OfficerAlan Stewart said on the call.  Same-store sales of food, which accounts for almost half of
revenue, rose 0.6 percent in the three-month period, less than
the 1 percent median analyst estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  