-- ‘Significant Progress’ in Pacific Trade Talks, U.S. Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-07-10T19:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/-significant-progress-in-pacific-trade-talks-u-s-says.html
Negotiators for nine nations
working towards a Pacific-region trade pact made “significant
progress” in areas including customs, telecommunications,
cross-border services and government procurement, a U.S.
official said as the latest round of talks ended.  Participants in the Trans-Pacific Partnership talks will
now seek approval from their governments in these areas,  Carol Guthrie , a spokeswoman for the U.S. Trade Representative’s
office, said today on a conference call from San Diego, where
discussions began July 2.  U.S. officials have proposed language to bolster copyright
protections in the proposed accord, which is a top trade
priority for President  Barack Obama ’s administration.  “Discussions have begun among the nine TPP partners on
that language,” according to Guthrie.  The negotiations enter a new phase later this year when
Mexico and Canada are set to join. The U.S. Trade
Representative’s office this week notified Congress of its
intention to include Mexico and Canada, triggering 90 days of
consultations before the group expands.  Nations that join the talks must adhere to any agreements
already established by the participants: Australia, Brunei,
Chile, Malaysia,  New Zealand , Peru, Singapore, the U.S. and
Vietnam. Adding Mexico and Canada would make the region the
U.S.’ largest export market, with more than $20.5 trillion in
economic output, according to an estimate by Canada’s
government.  Copyright Balance  The U.S. in San Diego proposed creating what the trade
representative’s office has described as “balance” in the
copyright systems among the negotiating partners. It will allow
for exceptions and limits for items including criticism, news
gathering and academic research.  “These principles are critical aspects of the U.S.
copyright system, and appear in both our law and
jurisprudence,” according to a blog entry  posted  July 3 on the
agency’s website.  Copyright protection is no longer about ensuring that
authors are justly compensated for their work, according Jeffrey Schott, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in  Washington . The process is also being
used to recoup investment on patented goods including
pharmaceuticals, he said.  “The standard procedure for U.S. negotiators is to try to
get our trading partners to adopt U.S. standards,” he said in a
phone interview.  Other Issues  The Trans-Pacific Partnership discussions deal with other
issues, including agriculture, financial services, rules of
origin and protections for companies that compete with state-
owned enterprises. At discussions held near  Dallas  in early May,
negotiators completed an agreement to boost trade for small-and
medium-sized businesses.  Democrats have said the discussions need to be more open to
public and congressional scrutiny.  “We are troubled that important policy decisions are being
made without full input from Congress,” 132 lawmakers led by
Representatives  Rosa DeLauro  of  Connecticut  and  George Miller  of
California, said in a June 27 letter to U.S. Trade
Representative  Ron Kirk . Senators including  Ron Wyden , an Oregon
Democrat, have voiced similar concerns.  House Oversight  and Government Reform Committee Chairman
 Darrell Issa , a California Republican from the San Diego area,
sought to attend the discussions, a rare request from a
lawmaker. USTR granted him access only to the public portions of
the event, not the negotiations, and he didn’t attend, Jeffrey
Solsby, a committee spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Congressional Complaints  The Obama administration “should be courting Congress,”
including Issa, according to Susan Ariel Aaronson, a professor
of trade policy at George Washington University in Washington.  While it’s important to inform members of Congress,
disclosing too much information “would make negotiation of any
sort quite difficult,” Ed Gresser, a policy adviser at USTR
during President  Bill Clinton ’s administration, said in an
interview.  During negotiations, countries often propose their ideal
goals and then find common ground with trading partners.
Negotiations conducted through the media may make it hard for
countries to back down from those positions, Gresser said.  The next round of negotiations will be held in Leesburg,
Virginia, from Sept. 6-15.  The U.S. is “seeking to make as much progress as possible
this year” on the discussions,’’ Guthrie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  