-- ABB in Cyber Arms Race With IBM as Industries Collide
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-07-12T14:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/abb-in-cyber-arms-race-with-ibm-and-hp-as-industries-collide.html
(Corrects year in eighth paragraph of July 11 story.)  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s largest maker
of power transformers, sees  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  as new competitors
jostling for orders to protect factories from cyber attacks.  The Swiss company is employing its venture-capital arm to
expand its arsenal of firewalls and security as customers face
the threat of trojan viruses and denial-of-service attacks,
Girish Nadkarni, head of ABB Technology Ventures, said in an
interview. The investment arm already bought a stake in cyber-
security company Industrial Defender in 2010.  “We are currently looking at a couple of companies in the
cyber-security space,” said Nadkarni, a former Wall Street
lawyer specializing in mergers and acquisitions. “We all need
to get a lot smarter about  information technology .”  ABB, which began making electric motors and power-
generation equipment more than 100 years ago, is bolstering its
factory-automation businesses with forays into digital
technology at a time when Microsoft and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  are
muscling into the same market. These firms are competing to
provide the software to operate factories and nuclear power
plants, historically the domain of ABB and  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)   “People from industry want to become more digital, and
people from the IT industry want to develop more industrial
expertise: at some point they start bumping in to each other,”
Nadkarni said.  ABB Technology Ventures, which made its first investment in
2010, has invested more than $100 million in start ups and
funds. Nadkarni, who previously worked at  Prudential Plc (PRU)  and  GE
Capital , says he and his team sift through 1,000 investment
opportunities a year to arrive at just a few completed deals.  ‘Spear Fishing’  The extent of industrial cyber-security attacks is clouded
by the fact that companies are loathe to admit incidents.
Chrysler Group LLC is estimated to have lost $14 million dollars
in three hours during a 2005 attack by the Zotob worm which
blocked its car assembly lines, according to Eric Byres, chief
technology officer of Tofino Security, which makes firewalls for
industrial networks.  In 2010, control systems made by  Siemens AG (SIE)  suffered an
attack by the Stuxnet malware that targeted uranium processing
equipment in  Iran . The worm could penetrate controls, send data
back to its creators and eventually make the industrial process
destroy itself through rapid changes in operating speeds. While
not the intended target, several manufacturing operations in
 North America  were also impacted, Byres said.  More recently, major gas pipeline companies in North
America have been the target of attacks, he said.  The number one method for gaining control is “spear-
fishing,” or sending an email to a manager or engineer which
looks like an email from a colleague. Attachments contain
malware which insert a backdoor to allow the attacker entry, and
can lay dormant in a system for years, Byres said.  HP-Veteran  ABB Chief Executive Officer Joe Hogan hired Prith Banerjee,
a veteran of Hewlett-Packard, as its chief technology officer in
May. Enhanced technology for utilities to control  power plants 
came with the $1 billion acquisition of energy management
software maker Ventyx in 2010. In June, the Zurich-based
engineer purchased Tropos Networks, a wireless network provider
for Smart Grids.  Hogan oversaw the creation of ABB’s technology ventures
unit in 2009, and as a member of the venture capital unit’s
board he has a hand in overseeing all transactions. It
highlights ABB’s push into new business as divisions supplying
longer-cycle investment projects in power suffer from weaker
spending in Europe and  China .  Constant Threat  China State Grid has halved its annual investment in ABB’s
large power transformers to about $300 million to $400 million
from $800 million in 2008. By contrast, Ventyx’s orders in the
first- and second-quarter of this year have been encouraging,
Hogan has said.  Newer industries like cyber security are expected to grow
as hacker attacks remain a constant threat and become
increasingly focused on financial returns, Byres said. There are
about 20 reported industrial cyber attacks per year and he
estimates less than one in 100 attacks are reported.  “The days of mafia-boy hacking into AT&T and making a mess
of things are over,” Byres said. “The really dangerous stuff
gets into the system and waits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  