-- Agius Told by U.K. Panel He’s Out of Touch Over Libor Outcry
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-07-10T12:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/agius-told-by-u-k-panel-he-s-out-of-touch-over-libor-outcry.html
Marcus Agius, chairman of  Barclays
Plc (BARC) , was called “out of touch” by members of the U.K.
Parliament’s Treasury Committee after saying the bank had been
surprised by the public outcry over the rate-fixing scandal.  In two-and-a-half hours of testimony, Agius appealed for
understanding of the “terrifying” experience of running a bank
during the 2008 financial crisis. He described how the bank’s
directors “were not in a happy place” when Bank of England
Governor  Mervyn King  told him on July 2 that Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  lost the confidence of regulators.  “Don’t you accept that the bank was totally out of touch,
that it took a meeting with the governor of the Bank to do the
right thing?” Labour lawmaker Andrew Love asked. In reply,
Agius said the bank hadn’t anticipated “the extent of the
public opprobrium that ensued” from the 290 million-pound ($450
million) fine Barclays agreed June 27 to pay for rigging Libor,
the benchmark interbank interest rate.  Agius said he announced his own resignation on the morning
of July 2 in response to the outcry. He defended the bank’s
competitive culture, comparing it with the winner of this year’s
Wimbledon tennis tournament. “It’s good,” he said. “ Roger
Federer  has a competitive spirit.”  “What do you say to people who say you were not very good
at your job?” Conservative David Ruffley asked. “Under your
captaincy a great British bank has been dragged through the mud.
Are you ashamed of that?”  Challenged by Labour’s Pat McFadden on pay levels at the
bank, Agius said he’d had to balance protests from shareholders
with the need to keep staff. “I don’t think it’s a matter of
culture, with respect,” he said. “It’s a question of trying to
manage an extraordinarily difficult situation.”  Andrew Tyrie , the committee’s Conservative chairman,
offered a mixed compliment. “We’re finding out a great deal
through these exchanges that we should have found out a week ago
from  Bob Diamond , so thank you,” he said.  -- Editors: James Hertling, James Kraus  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  