-- Hailstorms Cost Insurers at Least $1.7 Billion in June
-- B y   S t e v e n   N o r t o n
-- 2012-07-10T21:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/hailstorms-cost-insurers-at-least-1-7-billion-in-june.html
Hailstorms cost U.S. insurers at
least $1.7 billion last month, led by damage in  Texas  where
vehicles were pummeled while stuck on the  Dallas  Central
Expressway during an evening rush hour.  The number of claims from the Texas storm has surpassed
100,000 and insured losses will exceed $1 billion,  Aon Plc (AON)  said
in its  June Global Catastrophe Recap . A separate hail event in
 Colorado  and Wyoming caused more than $700 million in insured
losses, according to the report from the London-based broker.  “Up to baseball-sized hail was recorded in east Dallas and
 Grand Prairie , while golf-ball size hail occurred throughout the
rest of the metro region,” Aon said in the report. “Damage
occurred to a high volume of car windshields, roofs, golf
courses, the marquee of the landmark Lakewood Theater and glass
artwork at the Dallas Arboretum.”  Natural disasters in June, which also include the Waldo
Canyon Fire in Colorado, did more damage than U.S. catastrophes
in either of the first two months of the quarter, according to
Aon. Insured losses in April were almost $1 billion, including
damage from tornadoes in Texas and Kansas, the broker said in a
 report . The costliest U.S. storm in May struck  Oklahoma  and
caused about $400 million of losses in the state, Aon said.  Policyholder-owned State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance
Co. and  Allstate (ALL)  Corp. are the largest U.S. home and auto
insurers. Northbrook, Illinois-based Allstate said today that it
will report second-quarter results on July 31.  Chubb Corp. (CB) , an insurer of commercial property and high-end
homes, said today that second-quarter catastrophe costs may be
as much as $240 million before taxes. The Warren, New Jersey-
based firm said the costs were primarily related to hail and
wind storms.  Costs from disasters reached $20.3 billion in 2011, one of
the most expensive years on record, according to Bloomberg
Industries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Norton in  New York  at 
 snorton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  