-- Malaysian Snack Maker Mamee Said to Seek Sale of Stake
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-07-10T08:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/malaysian-snack-maker-mamee-said-to-seek-sale-of-minority-stake.html
Malaysia’s Mamee Double Decker Bhd.,
a snacks maker that delisted from the Kuala Lumpur stock
exchange in January, is seeking bidders for a minority stake,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The Malacca-based company, owner of brands including Mister
Potato and Mamee Instant Noodle, hired Rothschild for the sale
of about a 40 percent stake and is seeking at least $100
million, said the people, who asked not to be named as the
process is private.  Mamee, led by Chief Executive Officer Pang Tee Chew, was
incorporated in 1971, according to its  website . Pang’s family
last year took Mamee private in a 179.8 million ringgit ($57
million) deal.  The privatization offer represented an estimated price-to-
earnings ratio of 12 times, according to a research report by
Inter-Pacific Research Sdn. in April last year.  Mister Potato, a brand of potato crisps and chips, signed a
sponsorship deal with soccer club Manchester United Ltd. in
August 2011. Mamee’s profit slipped to 3.54 million ringgit in
the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2011 from 12.2 million ringgit a
year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company’s advisers may invite companies including
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ,  Kirin Holdings Co Ltd. (2503)  and Lotte Confectionery
Co., as well as private equity funds like  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  to bid for the stake, the people said.
First-round offers are due next week, they said.  Pang was traveling and unavailable to comment, said a
person who answered the phone at Mamee’s head office today.
Officials at Carlyle and Kirin declined to comment, while
Blackstone and PepsiCo spokesmen weren’t immediately able to
comment. Lotte Group spokesman Park Sang Sub said by telephone
today that the company isn’t considering a bid for Mamee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  