-- Malaysian Elections Draw Hong Leong Asset to Consumer Stocks
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-07-10T10:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/malaysian-elections-lure-hong-leong-asset-to-consumer-companies.html
Hong Leong Asset Management Bhd. is
favoring shares of Malaysian consumer-staple and health-care
companies over stocks that may be directly affected by the
outcome of elections due by early next year.  Investors should avoid financial, construction and property
companies that depend on government projects and spending,
according to Chief Executive Officer Geoffrey Ng, whose Kuala
Lumpur-based firm held about $1.5 billion as of July 6. Hong
Leong Asset’s consumer-products and balanced funds have beaten
at least 90 percent of peers in the past three years.  “Our medium-term strategy in the run-up to the general
election is to be cautiously optimistic on the market, only
taking positions in apolitical stocks,” Ng wrote in a July 6 e-
mail. “We suggest exposures to defensive sectors that are
politically agnostic.”  Prime Minister Najib Razak, who must call for elections by
early next year, unveiled a program in 2010 that identified $444
billion of private sector-led projects from mass rail to oil
storage to boost economic growth. Speculation the projects will
bolster building companies’ earnings drove the  Bursa Malaysia
Construction Index (KLCON)  to a six-month high on Feb. 9. The gauge has
since fallen 11 percent, compared with the benchmark  FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI) ’s 3.8 percent advance.  Large-scale building projects, such as a mass-rail network
in Kuala Lumpur that is still undergoing a feasibility study,
could face reviews or potential delays if the election results
“turn out to be unfavorable,” Sharizan Rosely, an analyst at
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd., said in a report dated July 4.  ‘Mega Jobs’  “In the worst-case scenario, major projects could be
reviewed and possibly deferred or canceled,” Sharizan wrote.
“This scenario is reminiscent of the post-2008 general election
which affected several mega jobs.”  The construction index tumbled 29 percent between Feb. 13,
2008, when the then Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi
dissolved parliament, and March 10 the same year, the first
trading day after the general election that saw the ruling
National Front coalition losing its two-thirds majority for the
first time since 1969. The KLCI gauge sank 9.5 percent on the
day after the election.  The KLCI gauge has gained 6.1 percent this year, compared
with a 2.4 percent increase in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) ,
as  Europe ’s debt crisis and concerns over global economic growth
drove investors to less risky assets. Malaysia’s stock measure
is trading at 14.9 times estimated earnings, compared with the
emerging-market index’s multiple of 10.2 times, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign Investors  The KLCI gauge closed at a record 1,624.29 today. The
measure was the  least volatile  among the key indexes of Asia-
Pacific markets worth more than $100 billion in the year to June
29 with a reading of 11.36, according to the Bloomberg Riskless
Return Ranking.  Overseas investors sold a net 800 million ringgit ($251
million) of Malaysian stocks last month after buying 10 billion
ringgit in the October-to-May period, stock exchange data show.  Stronger domestic consumption and initial public offerings
such as  Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGV) ’s $3.3 billion sale,
the world’s second-largest IPO this year after Facebook Inc.,
helped boost portfolio inflows and have “largely negated
political risk concerns for the time being,” Hong Leong’s Ng
said.  “We expect the Kuala Lumpur bourse to experience
volatility and lower trading liquidity once elections are
announced due to investor uncertainty regarding the possible
electorate outcome and in light of the surprise results of the
last general elections in 2008,” Ng said.  Consumer Fund  Hong Leong is also favoring glove makers, retail-based
property trusts and selected plantation stocks, Ng said. Hong
Leong Asset Management Bhd. is a unit of Hong Leong Capital
Bhd., which in turn is a unit of Hong Leong Financial Group Bhd.  Hong Leong Consumer Products Sector Fund (HLBCOPR) , which
outperformed 90 percent of its peers with a 26 percent return in
the past three years, owned shares of  Carlsberg Brewery (CAB)  Malaysia
Bhd. and  Dutch Lady (DLM)  Milk Industries Bhd. as of May 31, according
to a monthly factsheet on the company’s website. Dutch Lady has
gained 54 percent this year, while Carlsberg Brewery has surged
42 percent.  Hong Leong Balanced Fund (HLBBALA) , which beat 97 percent of its
peers with a 22 percent three-year return, invested in equities
and fixed-income securities, including shares of  QL Resources (QLG) 
Bhd. as of May 31, according to the factsheet. QL Resources, a
fishmeal producer that also runs livestock farming and oil palm
plantations, has advanced 4.9 percent this year.  “Given global macro headwinds and general election risks
on the home front, we believe it pays for the more discerning
investors to hold some defensive stocks that have strong cash
flows to pay sustainable dividends in their portfolios,” Lim Chee Sing, head of research at Kuala Lumpur-based RHB Capital
Bhd., wrote in a report dated July 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  