-- Talbots Today on Takeover Tomorrow Seen Returning 61%: Real M&A
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-07-10T22:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/talbots-today-on-takeover-tomorrow-seen-returning-61-real-m-a.html
Talbots (TLB)  Inc., which posted the worst
returns of any U.S. retailer in the past decade, is now offering
some of the biggest potential gains for traders willing to bet a
deal with Sycamore Partners LP will finally close.  With the Hingham, Massachusetts-based women’s apparel chain
yesterday  trading  8 percent below Sycamore’s takeover bid of
$2.75 a share, investors buying the stock today could post a 61
percent profit on an annualized basis if the acquisition is
completed by the end of August. That would be the largest return
for any pending all-cash deal in the U.S. of more than $100
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While MKM Partners says concern about pension liabilities
and the parties’ track record of rejected and renegotiated deal
prices earlier this year have made some traders wary of betting
on the takeover closing,  short sellers  have cut bearish bets by
more than half since the end of May. Even as Sycamore’s tender
offer expires this week, Tullett Prebon Plc and T2 Partners LLC
say the private-equity firm is a motivated buyer and will get
the acquisition done within a month. Completion would finally
give traders a chance to make money after the retailer  lost  more
than 90 percent of its market value in the last 10 years.  “If the buyer didn’t want to buy it, he had plenty of
opportunities to not buy it, and so it just seems very sensible
for this transaction to close,” Glenn Tongue of New York-based
T2 Partners said in a telephone interview. He owns Talbots
shares and his Tilson Focus Fund  beat  98 percent of peers this
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. “I don’t understand why
people would not vote to tender into this transaction.”  Blazers, Pearls  Nicole Madison, a spokeswoman for Talbots at FTI Consulting
Inc., said the company declined to comment.  Michael Freitag , a
spokesman for Sycamore at Joele Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer
Katcher, said the firm had no comment on the deal.  Founded in  1947 , the women’s retailer known for its
traditional basics such as blazers, ballet flats and pearls has
battered investors during the past decade, dropping 93 percent
for the biggest decline among retailers currently in the Russell
3000 Index. Talbots has closed 90 facilities, posted five
consecutive years of  sinking sales  and has yet to name a
replacement for Chief Executive Officer Trudy Sullivan, who was
planning to retire last month.  Talbots saw sales shrink to $1.14 billion in the year ended
Jan. 28 from a peak of $2.23 billion five years earlier. The
retailer has suffered as Sullivan attempted to appeal to younger
customers by introducing cocktail dresses and stilettos,
alienating some of its traditional customers, who tend to be
women over 35.  Lowest Valuation  Sycamore announced in August that it owned a 9.9 percent
stake, driving the shares up 18 percent to $4.07 in a single
day. The private-equity firm made a $3-a-share unsolicited offer
for Talbots in December, valuing it less relative to sales than
any U.S. retail acquisition ever completed, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  While Talbots rejected the bid in December and said the
offer “substantially” undervalued the company, it began merger
discussions with Sycamore in January. Talbots tumbled 15 percent
to $2.67 on April 13 after saying first-quarter sales would
decline from a year earlier. Sycamore then raised its price to
$3.05 at the start of May and the companies agreed to exclusive
negotiations.  Talbots said on May 25 that those talks broke down, sending
the shares into a tailspin. The stock sank 41 percent to $1.51,
and subsequently closed as low as $1.29 on May 30. The next day,
Talbots said it accepted Sycamore’s $2.75-a-share bid.  Skittish Investors  While Talbots and Sycamore are likely to complete the
transaction, the stock’s slump in May has investors skittish,
said  Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based special
situations and merger arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon.  “Because of what has transpired with the stock decline,
and the back and forth with Sycamore, and the fundamentals
declining, people are still taking a wait-and-watch approach,”
Shah said in a phone interview.  Sycamore’s tender offer for the Talbots shares it doesn’t
already own expires on July 13. Shah said the deadline will
probably be extended about 10 business days.  Keith Moore , an
event-driven strategist at MKM Partners in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , sees Sycamore extending the tender until late July
or mid-August. Talbots said May 31 that it expects the deal to
close in the third quarter.  In order to complete the deal, Talbots needs a letter from
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. saying the U.S. government agency
concluded its review of the company’s retirement plan. Talbots,
in an effort to contain costs, halted contributions to the
program in 2009. The pension is underfunded by $103 million,
according to a June 27 regulatory filing.  Financial Support  The letter from PBGC “will be the factor that determines
when it closes,” Moore said. The agency reviews corporate
takeovers to ensure that they won’t “substantially weaken” the
target company’s pension, according to PBGC’s  website .  Moore said he doesn’t advise buying Talbots shares. The
stock could fall to $1 should the deal fall apart, he wrote in a
June 1 report.  “I wouldn’t recommend it even though it’s a very fat
spread,” he said in a phone interview. “The problem is if
something were to happen where this deal didn’t close, there
would be a very unpleasant downside to it.”  The stock closed at $2.53 yesterday, up 9 cents since the
first close after Talbots and Sycamore announced the $2.75
takeover price at the end of May. Talbots  rallied  as much as 2
percent today to $2.58, the highest price since May 31. It
closed at $2.56.  Short Selling  With the shares pinned near $2.50, short sellers have
slashed bets that Talbots will fall. As of July 5, 6 percent of
its shares outstanding were sold short, down from 14.3 percent
on May 31,  data  compiled by Markit show. That compared with the
average of 2.9 percent for Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
companies, the data show.  Stefan Kaluzny co-founded New York-based Sycamore last year
after leaving Golden Gate Capital, where he was chairman of
Express Inc., the clothing chain that targets 20- to 30-year-old
men and women.  Sycamore bought a 51 percent stake in Columbus, Ohio-based
Limited Brands Inc.’s Mast Global Fashions division last year.
It may be able to leverage that purchase to help Talbots cut
production costs, according to Steven Kiel, the founder of
Annandale, Virginia-based Arquitos Capital Management LLC.  The private-equity firm cited its investment in Mast, one
of the world’s largest independent apparel sourcing companies,
as evidence that it has the experience needed to turn Talbots
around, according to a December letter to the retailer’s board.  ‘Struggling’ Company  “Other than Sycamore, we believe there are, at best, a
very limited number of potential acquirers who have the relevant
experience, skills, interest and capital to invest in a
struggling apparel company such as Talbots,” Kaluzny wrote in
the letter.  Talbots would be Sycamore’s first acquisition of a public
company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That puts
pressure on Sycamore to complete the deal, Kiel said in a phone
interview. He expects the transaction to close.  “Investors have kind of been jerked around the last six
months,” said Kiel, whose firm owns more than 50,000 Talbots
shares. “For Sycamore as a relatively new private-equity firm,
I don’t think they would want to back out of their second
acquisition at the last minute.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Barinka in  New York  at 
 abarinka1@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  