-- AMD’s Revenue Widens Mellanox Discount: Israel Overnight
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-07-11T07:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/amd-s-revenue-widens-mellanox-discount-israel-overnight.html
Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  fell in
New York to trade at the biggest discount to its Tel Aviv shares
on record on concern the Israeli technology company will report
slower growth after  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ’s  sales  dropped.  Mellanox, the maker of technology used to transfer and
store data quickly, slumped 6 percent in New York, boosting the
discount to the Tel Aviv stock to $5.58. The  Bloomberg Israel-US
Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the most traded Israeli companies in New York
tumbled 2 percent to 78.64, the lowest since Nov. 25. SodaStream
International Ltd. slid the most in two months after Chief
Executive Officer Daniel Birnbaum sold shares.  AMD, the second-biggest maker of processors for personal
computers, said second-quarter sales fell as slower growth in
 China  and a worsening economic climate in Europe reduced demand
for the chipmaker’s products. Asia accounted for 31 percent of
Mellanox’s  revenue  in 2011, while Europe represented 15 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index fell for a fourth day on concern technology companies’
corporate profits will drop.  “Investors are making a connection between Mellanox and
Advanced Micro Devices, and concluding it means Mellanox’s sales
will also be weak,” Brian Freed, vice president of equity
research at Wunderlich Securities Inc., said by phone yesterday
from Memphis. “In a market driven by fear, a connection like
that will cause people to make a call to sell the stock.”  Israel’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  declined 0.5 percent to 1,073.62 at
10:24 a.m. in Tel Aviv, and has fallen 1.1 percent in 2012,
compared with a decline of 3.2 percent for the Israel-US Equity
Index.  Policy Easing  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  slipped 0.8 percent to 1,341.47 yesterday,
paring its gain to 6.7 percent in 2012, amid lower sales
estimates for technology companies from Applied Materials Inc.
to  Cummins Inc. (CMI)   Mellanox tumbled to $69.03 in New York yesterday. The Tel
Aviv shares retreated 6.7 percent to 276.7 shekels, or the
equivalent of $69.73, today.  AMD’s second-quarter sales dropped to $1.41 billion in the
second quarter, trailing the mean  estimate  of $1.43 billion
forecast by 28 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company,
whose sales beat analysts’ predictions in the first quarter,
projected higher sales in April, citing growing demand for
personal computers.  The earnings report came after the European Central Bank
last week cut its benchmark interest rate to a record low and
China also reduced borrowing costs, adding to signs that global
demand for products may weaken.  Server Sales  Increasing caution in Internet technology spending in  North
America  and an uncertain economic situation in Europe is
expected to hurt personal computer sales in the second quarter,
according to a Bloomberg Industries report yesterday, which
cited the IDC PC Forecast Tracker.  Slowing global server sales, which fell 2.4 percent in the
first quarter, driven by a 14 percent decline in western Europe,
are forecast to result in revenue declines for  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,
three of Mellanox’s  largest customers , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Mellanox will probably say on July 18 that second-quarter
revenue was $128 million, compared with $63.4 million in the
year-earlier period, according to the mean  estimate  of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  SodaStream  SodaStream (SODA) , the Israeli maker of home soda machines,
tumbled 7.9 percent to $38.21 in New York yesterday, the
sharpest decline since May 3.  “The CEO selling of the shares is what people are
watching,” Jim Chartier, an analyst at Moness Crespi Hardt &
Co., said by phone from New York yesterday. “Sometimes
investors think CEOs are timing the stock and sell ahead of bad
news or buy ahead of good news. They’ve also decided to sell.”  EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  slid 4.5 percent to $35.25 in New
York for a fourth day of losses and its longest losing streak
since May 18. The shares closed at a discount of $1.69 versus
the Tel Aviv stock. The stock today fell 4.8 percent to 139.4
shekels, or $35.14.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
China. The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  