-- AMR to Consider Mergers After Studying Financial Outlook
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-07-11T20:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/american-ready-to-evaluate-potential-mergers-ceo-horton-says.html
American Airlines  is ready to
consider mergers and other restructuring options after
evaluating potential revenue and costs if it stays independent
following bankruptcy, Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  said.  American, a unit of  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , will begin contacting
“interested parties” soon to lay out its plans, Horton told
employees in a letter yesterday, without being specific.  While  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  has said it wants to merge with
American, Horton said the carrier outlined its preliminary view
of “multiple” options at a meeting yesterday with its
unsecured creditors committee.  US Airways , JetBlue Airways
Corp., Alaska Airlines,  Frontier Airlines  and Virgin America
Inc. were discussed, said a person familiar with the situation
who asked not to be named because the talks are private.  “It now makes sense to carefully evaluate a range of
strategic options, including potential mergers, which could make
the new American even stronger,” Horton said in the letter. The
CEO disclosed that he approached executives of other airlines
last year about the benefits of possible consolidation before
opting to restructure independently.  “American management has one charge, and that is to keep
its creditors happy,” said  Hunter Keay , a Wolfe Trahan & Co.
analyst in  New York . “As long as they do that, they’re not
going to have a problem as they try to work toward a stand-alone
exit.”  Creditors Committee  US Airways climbed 1.5 percent to $14.12 at the close of
trading in New York, the highest since February 2008. The shares
have more than doubled this year amid speculation about a
merger.  American in May reached an agreement with the nine-member
creditors committee, which has a voice in major decisions during
bankruptcy, to explore strategic options including a possible
sale. Since then, the  Fort Worth , Texas-based company had pushed
for its full plan for remaining independent to be evaluated
before alternatives are considered.  US Airways, which hasn’t made a formal bid, reached
tentative contract agreements with American’s unions in April
that are contingent upon a merger of the two carriers. The
Tempe, Arizona-based airline has been courting support for a
combination among American bondholders and other creditors.  The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday that American
would begin sending nondisclosure agreements to potential
partners as soon as this month.  US Airways  “We are pleased that AMR’s process to explore merger
options is moving forward,” said  John McDonald , a spokesman for
US Airways. “All we have asked for is a fair and balanced
opportunity to present our plan versus others, and we are
hopeful this is the beginning of such a process.”  American last week asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane to
extend until the end of 2012 its exclusive right to propose a
reorganization plan. American didn’t set a time frame yesterday
for finishing the review of options or opening its books to
potential partners.  AMR’s 6.25 percent bonds due October 2014 slipped 0.125
cents to 62.25 cents on the dollar today, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  ‘Important Milestone’  Agreeing to begin assessing alternatives now may have been
an “act of good faith” in return for the creditors committee’s
backing on the extension request, Keay said. The Wolfe Trahan
analyst rates US Airways shares outperform.  “We’ve been consistent in public statements and internal
comments that our path forward is organic growth,” Jenny
Dervin, a JetBlue spokeswoman, said today in an interview.
“There is no change to that path forward.”  Dervin declined to comment on speculation about American.
Abby Lunardini, a Virgin America spokeswoman, also declined to
comment.  Frontier parent  Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET)  announced
last November its intent to separate the Frontier and Republic
businesses and “is working with  Barclays Capital  to identify
potential transaction opportunities,” said Peter Kowalchuk, a
Republic spokesman. He declined to comment specifically on a
possible combination with AMR.  Alaska Airlines has said for years that its “preference is
to remain a strong, vibrant, independent company,” said Bobbie
Egan, an  Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK)  spokeswoman. “Our current plan
provides the best outcome for all of our stakeholders.”  JetBlue gained 2.3 percent to $5.74 at in New York, while
Seattle-based Alaska climbed 2.5 percent to $36.60.  AMR’s improved operating and financial performance and
progress toward cost-cutting agreements with its unions opened
the door to considering other options, Horton said.  Pilots Union  The CEO’s letter to workers is “an important milestone,”
the  Allied Pilots Association  said in a statement yesterday.
“It’s an affirmation that consolidation represents the most
promising path for our airline’s future.”  The biggest remaining questions center around who would
manage “the new entity” and whether a merger occurs while AMR
is still in restructuring, the APA said  If pilots approve a proposed offer that pares concessions
sought by the carrier, the 13.5 percent equity stake the APA
will get in the airline will give it “significant influence
over strategic decisions that will be made in the weeks and
months to come,” the APA said.  The result of the pilots’ vote will be announced on Aug. 8,
according to the APA’s statement.  Five of seven groups represented by the Transport Workers
Union have new contracts. Talks with two other TWU units
resulted in a tentative accord yesterday, leaving the flight
attendants as the only group not to have reached an agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  