-- Man Who Knew Too Much on Ratings Says They Aren’t Meaningful
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-07-10T20:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/man-who-knew-too-much-about-ratings-says-they-aren-t-meaningful.html
Ratings companies, whose scores have
helped determine the cost of money for governments and
businesses for more than a century, are no longer trusted by the
world’s biggest investors, according to the former head of
structured finance at  Standard & Poor’s .  “They’re there because people have to have them, not
because people believe in them,” David Jacob, who was fired
from S&P in December, said in an interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in  New York . “Maybe retail investors do, that’s
the unfortunate part, but I think institutional investors
don’t.”  After helping ignite the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression by inflating grades on securities backed by
subprime mortgages, the ratings firms’ reputations are being
diminished further in the  bond market . When S&P downgraded the
U.S. government in August, Treasury  yields  fell to record lows,
and the cost of protecting financial debt declined following
last month’s downgrades of 15 global investment banks by Moody’s
Investors Service.  Jacob, hired four years ago to help restore confidence in
S&P, says policy makers haven’t gone far enough to reduce
reliance on the ratings companies, granted the authority by U.S.
regulators 76 years ago to determine which borrowers deserve
credit.  ‘Fine Balance’  The ratings business is now dominated by S&P, a  New York- 
based unit of McGraw-Hill Cos., Moody’s and  Fitch Ratings . The
three produce a combined $4 billion in annual revenue with 3,600
analysts ranking 2.73 million securities worldwide in the $43
trillion global bond market.  “Ratings are not God’s holy work,” said Jacob, 56, a
graduate of Queens College in New York with degrees in math and
finance from  New York University . “It’s a business. It’s a fine
balance between trying to get a certain amount of market share
versus losing your credibility.”  Bond investors respond faster than ratings firms to shifts
in risk,  Ken Fisher , chief executive officer and founder of
Woodside, California-based Fisher Investments, said in a
telephone interview after Moody’s downgraded  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  UBS
AG (UBSN)  and 13 other global banks on June 21.  ‘Strict Standards’  “Moody’s is not going to detect some problem in advance
and move a rating to warn the public,” said Fisher, whose firm
manages about $44 billion. “Whether it’s a stock or a bond, the
free market already did that. Moody’s goes along afterwards and
effectively validates what the market’s already done.”  Spokesmen for S&P, Moody’s and Fitch declined to respond to
Jacob’s remarks.  S&P President Douglas Peterson said at a meeting of the
 Institute of International Finance  in Copenhagen on June 6 that
ratings companies help ensure that bond issuers provide
“transparent information” under “strict standards of
governance and control.”  During the housing boom, analysts at the three firms were
pressured to give their stamp of approval to complex investments
to win lucrative business from Wall Street banks, the Senate
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations said last year in a
report.  With the cooperation of the ratings companies, bankers spun
risky mortgages into securities supposedly as safe as  government
bonds , allowing risky lending to accelerate.  Rating Fees  In 2007, the year before Jacob took over, S&P’s structured
finance group took in $561 million in revenue, sometimes
charging banks more than $1 million to rate a single offering,
according to the Senate panel. About 90 percent of AAA
securities backed by subprime mortgages from 2006 and 2007 were
later cut to junk, or below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB-
at S&P.  The credit crisis that followed still weighs on economic
growth worldwide.  Home prices  in the U.S. are off 34 percent
from their peak in July 2006, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller
 index . Governments were forced to bail out banks that faced $1.5
trillion in writedowns and losses.  Jacob joined S&P after managing commercial- and
residential-mortgage bond groups at Nomura Holdings Inc. from
1993 to 2007. He said he sought to ensure that S&P analysts
didn’t loosen standards at the request of bankers. The firm won
less business in certain areas as a result.  “We’ve swung back from where it was before when it felt
more like the Wild West, but of course it puts a crimp on the
business,” Jacob said in the interview last month. “It’s
important for investors to watch to see if there’s a change and
a shift in terms of trying to rebuild that market share.”  ‘Tighten Up’  Jacob may be criticizing the firm because of his dismissal,
 Peter Appert , an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co. in  San
Francisco , said in a telephone interview.  Peterson has been bringing in new executives after a series
of miscues at S&P, including a bungled commercial-mortgage deal
and its handling of the U.S. downgrade, said Appert, who doesn’t
know Jacob or his particular circumstances.  Peterson demoted  Mark Adelson  from chief credit officer to
a research role last year, and Barbara Duka, head of commercial-
mortgage ratings, was replaced.  “Peterson was brought in to try to address some of these
issues and tighten up operations,” said Appert, who has the
equivalent of “buy” ratings on McGraw-Hill and Moody’s stock.
McGraw-Hill fell 0.2 percent to $44.70 today.  Falling Yields  S&P cut the credit grade of the U.S. one step to AA+ in
August, criticizing lawmakers for failing to cut spending or
raise revenue enough to reduce record budget deficits. After the
Treasury Department said S&P made a $2 trillion error in its
calculations, the ratings company switched the budget
projections it was using and proceeded with the downgrade. S&P
denied it made a mistake and said using the government’s
preferred fiscal scenario didn’t affect the credit rating.  Following the downgrade,  yields  on 10-year Treasuries fell
to as low as 1.45 percent in June from almost 3 percent last
August, indicating investors view the U.S. as more creditworthy,
not less. Almost half the time, yields on government bonds fall
when a rating action by S&P and Moody’s suggests they should
climb, according to data compiled by Bloomberg on 314 upgrades,
downgrades and outlook changes going back as far as the 1970s.  Grading government bonds is outside ratings companies’
traditional areas of expertise, Jacob said.  Bank Rally  “You’re talking about politicians, you’re talking about
legislators, you’re not talking about credit risk,” he said.
“I don’t see how a rating agency has any better call on it than
you or me or anybody else.”  Moody’s, which helped start the business of ranking
companies by their ability to repay debt in 1909, cited “the
volatility and risk of outsized losses inherent to capital-
markets activities” for its bank downgrades, according to a
June 21 statement.  While Moody’s now has the banks rated an average four
levels lower than at the height of the financial crisis,
investors see the lenders as more creditworthy. Yields on their
bonds fell to an average 3.77 percent as of yesterday from 8.46
percent in October 2008, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show.  The cost of protecting the banks’ debt from default fell as
much as 26 basis points after the downgrades, Bloomberg data
show. As of yesterday, the average was down 1 basis point to
245, meaning it costs $245,000 a year to insure against losses
on $10 million of their bonds.  Dodd-Frank  In response to the ratings companies’ role in the credit
seizure, the U.S. passed the Dodd-Frank overhaul of financial
regulation in 2010, instructing regulators to remove references
to ratings in the rules that determine everything from bank
capital to money-market fund holdings.  In  Europe , lawmakers are debating new rules that would
force banks to rotate which companies they hire to grade certain
securities and restrict when sovereign ratings could be
released.  The ratings companies’ grades have carried extra weight
since the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency banned banks
from holding bonds that were below investment grade in 1936.  “We have a longstanding integration of ratings into
financial regulation,” Larry White, a professor at New York
University’s Stern School of Business who’s testified before
Congress about credit ratings, said in a telephone interview.
“That has unnecessarily enhanced the importance of the big
three rating firms.”  ‘Natural Duopoly’  Moody’s and S&P have become a “natural duopoly,” able to
sell their services even to those who don’t like them,  Warren Buffett , the chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., told the
Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in 2010. Berkshire is an
“unwilling customer” of Moody’s when it issues bonds, Buffett
said.  That hasn’t stopped the world’s third-wealthiest man from
appreciating the profit opportunities. Berkshire is Moody’s
biggest shareholder with a 13 percent  stake  valued at about $1
billion.  Institutional investors and their clients use ratings to
set guidelines that determine which bonds can be held in their
portfolios, even if they don’t rely on the companies for
investment advice, according to Bonnie Baha, head of global
developed credit at DoubleLine Capital LP, which oversees $38
billion.  ‘Necessary Evil’  “You have to have some sort of a credible, third-party way
to benchmark those categories,” Baha said in a telephone
interview from  Los Angeles . “The rating agencies are sort of a
necessary evil until a better alternative comes along.”  As head of S&P’s structured-finance business, Jacob oversaw
the department that rated commercial-mortgage bonds, which are
securities composed of loans for office buildings, hotels and
shopping centers.  Wall Street  has been freezing S&P out from that market
since last July, when it withdrew its ratings on a $1.5 billion
deal and forced Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. to
scuttle the offering after it was sold to investors.  S&P took too long to investigate a possible error that led
it to pull its grades, Jacob said. Had S&P acted more quickly on
the discrepancy, which turned out not to affect the bonds’
ratings, the deal could have been postponed rather than
canceled, he said.  Vague Definitions  “My frustration was how long it takes to correct it and to
figure it out,” Jacob said. Telling investors and bankers that
the ratings would be pulled “was probably the most embarrassing
and difficult conversation I’ve ever had,” he said.  On Dec. 8, about three months after Peterson took over as
president for Deven Sharma, S&P said Jacob would be leaving the
company at the end of the year. After thanking Jacob in a
statement, Peterson said that Paul Coughlin would take over the
structured-finance business temporarily while he reorganized
management along regional lines.  “I thought my work wasn’t finished,” Jacob said. He said
he’s not sure why he was replaced.  Jacob said he is now considering working in financial
regulation. One reform that would improve the quality of ratings
would be to have all scores correspond to percentage chances of
default, rather than the vague definitions now in use. S&P says
its top rating means the issuer is “extremely strong,” while
Aaa bonds are considered “highest quality” at Moody’s.  “I was there three and a half years and I still don’t
understand it,” Jacob said. “When people can use the same set
of letters and mean entirely different things, then they become
useless.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  