-- Lance Armstrong Files Revised Suit Against Doping Agency
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-07-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/lance-armstrong-files-revised-suit-against-doping-agency.html
Seven-time Tour de France champion
 Lance Armstrong  filed a revised complaint against the U.S. Anti-
Doping Agency after a federal judge dismissed an earlier lawsuit
for including irrelevant information.  Armstrong is seeking to block the organization from
stripping him of his cycling titles and imposing a lifetime ban
from the sport, according to an amended complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Austin,  Texas .  The filing is 55 pages shorter than the original 80-page
complaint that U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks threw out July 9,
saying it contained irrelevant material that was presumably
included to “incite public opinion” against the anti-doping
agency.  Armstrong, who retired from cycling and is now a
triathlete, must initiate arbitration with the organization by
July 14, or it will impose sanctions that will ban him from
participating in elite competitive sports and strip him his Tour
de France titles, according to the court filing.  Armstrong, 40, is accused by the anti-doping agency of
using banned drugs and plotting the use of such substances by
his teammates. He has denied ever using drugs or aiding in their
use. The anti-doping agency said yesterday that two doctors and
a trainer who worked with Armstrong and his cycling teams were
banned for life.  Without Merit  The organization said in a statement yesterday that
Armstrong’s complaint is without merit.  “We are confident the courts will continue to uphold the
established rules which provide full constitutional due process
and are designed to protect the rights of clean athletes and the
integrity of sport,” it said.  In February, the U.S. attorney in  Los Angeles  ended a
criminal drug probe involving Armstrong and his professional
bicycle racing team without filing charges. That investigation
focused on whether the team may have defrauded sponsors by
breaking the rules, rather than actual drug use.  Armstrong said the anti-doping agency doesn’t have the
right to sanction him or force him into arbitration. The
arbitration “is certain to result in an adverse decision,” his
lawyers said in court papers.  “Defendants have undertaken to ban Mr. Armstrong from
competition for life, disqualify his competitive results, seize
his medals and prizes, and impose upon him costs and fines,
without according due process to Mr. Armstrong,” they said.  The case is Armstrong v. U.S. Anti-Doping Agency, 12-00606,
U.S. District Court, Western District of Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  