-- Midtown NYC Office Rents Slip as ‘Silicon Alley’ Gains
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-07-10T17:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/manhattan-midtown-office-rents-slip-as-silicon-alley-favored.html
Office  rents  in midtown  Manhattan 
declined in the second quarter, the first drop in two years,
as the area south of the district gained popularity among
prospective tenants, according to  Cushman & Wakefield  Inc.  Asking rents in Midtown, the largest U.S. office market,
fell to an average $66.44 a square foot from $66.68 in the first
quarter, the brokerage said in a statement today. In the
downtown market, which includes the city’s financial district,
landlords sought $40.06 a square foot, down from $40.18.  The area known as midtown south has replaced Midtown as the
most desirable location for companies to lease space, the
brokerage said. Midtown south, also called Silicon Alley because
of its popularity among media and technology companies, has the
lowest vacancy rate of all central business districts in the
nation, at 6.1 percent, according to Cushman & Wakefield.  “Historically, Midtown was the location that companies
flocked to for affordable rent following a recession, but that’s
not the case this time,” Ken McCarthy, senior economist at
Cushman & Wakefield, said in a statement.  Asking rents in midtown south, an area roughly between 30th
and Canal streets, rose to $49.43 a square foot in the second
quarter from $48.45 in the previous three months.  Financial Companies  As media and technology expand, the financial-services
industry -- traditionally the largest user of  New York  offices
-- is doing more with less space, McCarthy said today at a
briefing. While office-using  employment  has exceeded its 2008
peak, Manhattan’s office  vacancy  rate remains at 9 percent,
compared with about 6 percent four years ago, he said.  “Financial services has added about 25,000 jobs since the
bottom of 2010, yet occupancy in the financial-services industry
hasn’t grown,” McCarthy said. “What they’re doing is they’re
taking their existing footprint and using it more efficiently.”  New towers under construction in Midtown and downtown will
put further pressure on the market, according to a report by
Studley Inc., a brokerage that represents only tenants. Some
tenants may delay space decisions because of concerns about the
U.S. elections, the fate of financial reform and the  European
debt crisis , wrote Steven Coutts, Studley’s senior vice
president for research.  ‘Holding Pattern’  “We’re in a kind of lull or holding pattern that will play
to the benefit of tenants for a series of quarters,” Coutts
said in a telephone interview. “That fact that you have more
product coming on line, and that is pushing supply up a little
bit, is a good opportunity for tenants.”  In lower Manhattan, 4 World Trade Center has about 1
million square feet (93,000 square meters) still unleased,
according to Coutts’s report. The tower, which  Larry Silverstein 
is developing, should be completed in about a year.  Two buildings slated for completion in 2013, 51 Astor Place
in midtown south, and the International Gem Tower in Midtown,
each have about 300,000 square feet available, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  