-- Annan Seeks Iran’s Support to Solve 16-Month Syria Crisis
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-07-10T14:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/annan-seeks-iran-s-support-to-solve-16-month-syria-crisis.html
United Nations envoy  Kofi Annan 
sought  Iran ’s help in resolving the Syria crisis as opponents of
President Bashar al-Assad called on  Russia  to play a positive
role in a  power transfer  in the Middle Eastern country.  Annan met Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  and the
country’s chief nuclear negotiator,  Saeed Jalili , in the Iranian
capital Tehran today before leaving for  Baghdad . “Iran has a
role to play and my presence here explains that I believe in
that,” Annan told journalists after his meeting with Salehi.  Salehi made it clear that if no real effort is made to
resolve the crisis peacefully and if it were to get out of hand
and spread around the region, it “would lead to consequences
that none of us can imagine,” Annan said.  Iran has stood by the government in Syria, the Persian Gulf
nation’s closest Arab ally, since the uprising against Assad
began in March 2011. Syria’s main opposition group, the Syrian
National Council, has rejected Annan’s call for Iran’s
involvement, describing the government as an accomplice in
Assad’s aggression. State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
said on June 22 that while the U.S. agrees with “the general
point that Iran should be part of the solution,” it disapproves
of its “destructive role” as a backer of Assad.  The international community disagrees on the strategy
needed to persuade Assad, whose family has held power for four
decades, to leave.  Russian Warships  Russia, which has shielded Assad from censure even as the
U.S. and other Western countries advocated stronger UN action,
dispatched four warships from its Northern Fleet to Syria today.
The ships, which departed from the Arctic port of Severomorsk,
will be joined by other Russian naval vessels, Interfax
reported, citing an unidentified official. They will dock at a
naval resupply base in the port of Tartus, the  news agency  said.  Annan said Assad yesterday suggested a solution to end the
crisis that involves trying to contain the violence in districts
where clashes are particularly extreme and “step by step, build
up and end the violence across the country.”  In Russia, Bassma Kodmani, a member of the Syrian National
Council, said Assad’s opponents want the UN to mediate
transition talks with Syria’s government once violence in the
country ends.  Third Party  “We think it’s going to be difficult to have a bilateral
process,” she told reporters in Moscow today amid talks by a
delegation of the country’s leading alliance of opposition
groups with Russian officials. “We think there’s a need for a
third party to be the facilitator, the mediator. Ideally, we
think the UN is a legitimate and normal partner.”  An immediate cease-fire and a troop pullout from urban
centers must precede any talks, Kodmani said, adding that the
opposition wants Russia to play a “positive role” in a
handover of power in Syria.  The violence has claimed more than 17,000 lives, according
to Rami  Abdel Rahman , head of the Syrian Observatory for  Human
Rights . The casualties include 4,348 members of Assad’s security
forces, he said. The Syrian government has released 275 people
detained “in recent events whose hands aren’t covered with
Syrians’ blood,” state-run Syrian TV said today, adding it’s
the seventh batch of detainees to be released.  Syria’s Cabinet also approved creating 25,000 jobs across
the country this year, the state-run Sana news agency reported
today.  Jordan  has decided to set up emergency camps to accommodate
Syrian refugees pouring into the kingdom, Petra news agency said
yesterday. More than 130,000 Syrian have fled their homeland to
Jordan, according to Jordanian government figures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  