-- Applied Materials Falls After Reducing Fiscal 2012 Forecast
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-07-10T20:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/applied-materials-cuts-year-full-year-fiscal-2012-forecast-1-.html
Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT)  shares fell
after the chipmaking-equipment provider sliced its fiscal 2012
sales and profit forecasts amid weakness in Europe, China, and
the personal-computer market.  For the year that ends Oct. 28, 2012, net sales won’t reach
the previous outlook of $9.1 billion to $9.5 billion, the  Santa
Clara , California-based company said today in statement. Per-
share earnings excluding some items will be less than a previous
projection of 85 cents a share to 95 cents, the company said.  Applied Materials Chief Executive Officer Mike Splinter,
speaking at a conference today in  San Francisco , said demand in
Europe and China is ebbing. That echoed remarks from  Advanced
Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the second-biggest maker of processors for
PCs, which yesterday blamed those regions for an unexpected drop
in second-quarter sales.  “Both China and Europe are quite weak,” Splinter said.
“Both markets are worse than they were at this time last
year.”  Applied Materials said earlier that it’s seeing weaker
demand from foundry customers, manufacturers that build chips
for other companies. Investors and analysts track semiconductor-
equipment orders as a harbinger of demand for the broader
electronics industry.  The  shares  fell 2.7 percent to $10.71 at 4 p.m. in  New
York , leaving the stock little changed this year.  ‘Global Slowdown’  A slowdown in business from Asia, as well as limited demand
for devices made by  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , will
lead other chipmakers and personal-computer suppliers to
forecast earnings that fall short of expectations, said Jerome Ramel, an analyst with Exane BNP Paribas in London.  “There’s a global slowdown,” Ramel said in an interview
today. “We should expect more warnings. All of the equipment
guys will probably warn, and companies in the PC chain.”  For calendar 2012, spending on so-called wafer-fabrication
equipment -- the machines used in chipmaking plants -- will be
$30 billion to $33 billion, Applied Materials said, less than
its prior projection of $32 billion to $35 billion.  The company also said financial results for the third
quarter ending, which ends July 29, will be within in the range
of its previous forecast, provided in May.  KLA-Tencor Corp. (KLAC) , a maker of machinery used in the
production of computer chips, plans to deliver a briefing for
analysts later today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  