-- Apple Chasing Asia Sales Says Next IPad Arrives in China
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-07-10T20:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/apple-says-next-ipad-tablet-will-arrive-in-china-on-july-20.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said the latest iPad will
arrive in  China  on July 20, working to extend its lead in the
tablet market by courting new business in the world’s most
populous nation.  The new iPad, which went on sale in the U.S. in March, will
cost $499 to $829, depending on the amount of memory and the
device’s wireless-connection compatibility, Cupertino,
California-based Apple said yesterday in a statement.  China has become Apple’s second-biggest market after the
U.S., as rising wages give Chinese citizens more disposable
income to spend on iPhones, iPads and Mac computers. China
accounted for $7.9 billion of Apple’s $39.2 billion sales in the
fiscal second quarter, which ended March 31. That was more than
triple the company’s sales in the country a year earlier.  Apple will look to buck a slowdown in the Chinese economy
that is reverberating across the technology industry.  Applied
Materials Inc. (AMAT)  and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  cited weakness in
China this week when trimming financial forecasts.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said there was “relatively
large” downward pressure on the economy there, and that
authorities will intensify efforts to give it a boost, according
to a July 8 report by the official Xinhua News Agency.  Apple is also aiming to stay ahead in tablets as Google
Inc. and  Microsoft Corp. prepare to release their own tablet
computers.  Reservation Only  Apple is taking steps to manage the new iPad’s debut in
China to avoid a repeat of the scene when the iPhone 4S was
released there last year. Customers who had been waiting in line
for hours clashed with employees and threw eggs at the stores,
causing shops to be closed. Authorities were called in to break
up the crowd.  Apple said the new iPad will be available for purchase by
reservation only at Apple retail stores. It also will be
available for sale at authorized resellers and the company’s
online store.  The iPad is Apple’s  second-best  selling product behind the
iPhone, accounting for 17 percent of sales in the second
quarter. Apple, the world’s largest company by market value,
will report third-quarter results on July 24.  Apple slid less than 1 percent to $608.21 at the close
yesterday in  New York . Through yesterday, the shares had risen
50 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  