-- Armstrong Team Doctors, Trainer Banned for Life for Drug Use
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-07-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/armstrong-team-doctors-trainer-banned-for-life-in-doping-case.html
Two doctors and a trainer who worked
with seven-time  Tour de France  champion  Lance Armstrong  and his
cycling teams were banned for life for encouraging doping by
athletes, the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency said.  The penalties against Luis Garcia del Moral and Michele
Ferrari, the team doctors, and Jose “Pepe” Marti, the trainer,
were announced by the Colorado Springs, Colorado-based agency in
an e-mailed news release.  Usada said del Moral, Ferrari and Marti were part of a plan
to use banned performance enhancing drugs and doping methods on
cycling teams led by Armstrong, who also is accused by the
agency of using banned drugs and plotting the use of such
substances by his teammates.  Armstrong, 40, has denied ever using drugs or aiding in
their use. Now a triathlete, he’s seeking to block Usada from
stripping him of his cycling titles and imposing a lifetime ban
from the sport, according to an amended complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Austin,  Texas .  Mark Fabiani , an attorney for Armstrong, declined in an e-
mail to comment immediately on Usada’s latest action.  Del Moral said by telephone yesterday from the sports
clinic where he works in Valencia,  Spain , that he was unaware of
the ban and that he shouldn’t be judged in a foreign country.  “I’m not American, and I don’t have a license in
America,” he said. “Should my case be judged in America?
Absolutely not.”  Taxpayer-Funded Team  Del Moral sent a letter to Usada through his attorney
saying he was not going to be a party to any procedure, and
under the charges that means his ban automatically goes into
effect, said Travis Tygart, Usada’s chief executive officer.  “He was employed and paid for by a U.S. taxpayer-funded
team, the U.S Postal Service’s pro cycling team,” Tygart said
in a telephone interview. “The rules around the world clearly
require us to handle this case.”  In an interview in 2010, Del Moral denied overseeing doping
on the U.S. Postal team, and said claims by  Floyd Landis  that it
was commonplace were “ridiculous.”  Pat McQuaid, president of the International Cycling Union,
or UCI, didn’t immediately return a phone message seeking
comment on the Usada action.  Reply Deadline  After a Usada review board recommended going forward with
charges on June 28, those involved had until two days ago to
contest the sanctions. Those not banned yesterday were granted a
five-day extension to complete their responses or request an
arbitration hearing, USADA said in its statement. Tygart
declined to say whether Armstrong or  Johan Bruyneel , the former
U.S. Postal Service team manager who also was charged, had
submitted a response.  Armstrong, who retired from cycling in February 2011, has
endorsement agreements with  Nike Inc. (NKE) , Trek Bicycle Corp. and
Oakley Inc.  He won the Tour de  France , cycling’s premier event, each
year from 1999 to 2005 after surviving testicular cancer that
had spread to his brain and lungs. The Lance Armstrong
Foundation, which he founded in 1997 to help cancer survivors,
has raised $500 million, the charity’s Chief Executive Officer
Doug Ulman has said.  On Feb. 4, the U.S. attorney in  Los Angeles  ended a
criminal drug probe involving Armstrong and his professional
bicycle racing team without filing charges. That investigation
focused on whether the team may have defrauded sponsors by
breaking the rules, rather than actual drug use.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  