-- Harrisburg Receiver Seeks Court Order to Raise Taxes
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-07-10T19:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/harrisburg-receiver-seeks-court-order-to-raise-taxes.html
The receiver of Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania  asked a court to force council members of the
insolvent city to raise taxes.  An increase in the earned income tax to 1.5 percent from
0.5 percent is key to a plan to stabilize Harrisburg’s finances,
according to the receiver, William B. Lynch. The city is
insolvent, mainly because it guaranteed repayment of more than
$300 million in bonds tied to a waste-to-energy plant that
doesn’t generate enough money to cover its debt.  Without the tax increase, “the city’s operating shortfall
will be that much greater and will be so substantial that it
will seriously jeopardize any ability of the city to achieve a
consensual recovery plan resolution,” attorneys for Lynch wrote
in today’s filing in state court in Harrisburg.  Lynch is trying to implement a financial recovery plan
given preliminary approval by state Judge Bonnie Leadbetter.
Under the proposal, the city would raise taxes and either sell
or lease assets it controls, including parking garages and the
waste-to-energy plant.  The law which authorized Pennsylvania Governor Thomas W. Corbett to appoint Lynch doesn’t give the receiver power to
impose taxes. For that reason, Lynch is asking Leadbetter to
order the council to approve the levy.  The increase would raise about $5.1 million in 2013 and
$6.86 million from 2014 through 2016, or about 10 percent of the
city’s operating budget, according to the court documents.  Council Dispute  Lynch and Harrisburg Mayor  Linda Thompson  have been
fighting the city council over the best way to end the city’s
fiscal troubles. The council put the city into bankruptcy last
year. Lawyers for Thompson and Corbett persuaded a federal judge
to have the case thrown out.  Leadbetter lacks the authority to impose the tax, said Mark
D. Schwartz, an attorney for the city council.  “It’s not like they have followed the law before,”
Schwartz said in an interview.  The receiver case is TD Bank NA v. Harrisburg Authority,
2010-CV-11737, Court of Common Pleas, Dauphin County,
Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  