-- Martha Stewart Living Pushing Profit, Names Gersh as CEO
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-07-10T20:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/martha-stewart-living-promotes-gersh-to-chief-executive-1-.html
Martha Stewart  Living OmniMedia Inc.
named Lisa Gersh as Chief Executive Officer, succeeding Charles Koppelman, who was Principal Executive Officer and the most
senior executive at the company until September last year.  Martha Stewart, founder and non-executive chairman,
extended her employment agreement until June 30, 2017 and will
also take on the new title of chief creative officer, the New
York-based company said in a statement. Gersh was previously
president and chief operating officer.  “I look forward to continuing our drive towards
sustainable profitability,” Gersh said in the statement. “We
are focused on elevating the iconic Martha Stewart brand to an
even higher level and putting our content and products in reach
of even more consumers.”  Martha Stewart Living (MSO)  is increasingly reliant on branded
products as its publishing and television arms struggle in a
tough advertising market. The company may post a net loss of
$4.9 million in the second quarter, according to analysts’
average estimates based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  “They needed a talented management team to understand the
business and how to enhance the value,” said Michael Kupinski,
an analyst at Noble Financial Capital Markets. “The company did
not make hard choices to enhance the value of its publishing
division specifically,” Kupinski said by telephone.  Succession Plan  Gersh joined Martha Stewart Living in June last year as
president and COO, responsible for overseeing day-to-day
operations and overseeing the company’s businesses. Gersh
reported to Koppelman and her appointment created a  succession
plan  which anticipated Gersh becoming CEO within 12 to 20
months, the company  said  at the time.  Before joining Martha Stewart Living, Gersh co-founded
Oxygen Media LLC and was president and COO from 1998 until 2007
when it was acquired by  NBC Universal . She is also a director on
the board of  Hasbro Inc. (HAS)   Koppelman, in addition to being principal executive
officer, was also chairman for five years until May this year.  Martha Stewart Living “is seeking to strategically
reinvent its media businesses for the digital era” and is
debuting a new TV show, ‘Martha Stewart’s Cooking School,’ in
October, the company also said today.  Profit Margins  Gersh will need to improve profit margins at the company’s
publishing division and increase the international distribution
of its merchandise, Noble’s Kupinski said.  Stewart’s contract was extended to June 30, 2017 from its
previous expiration date of June 30 this year, the company said
in a filing today. No additional compensation for Stewart is
payable for new programming after June 30, unless it requires
Stewart to provide services exceeding the commitment previously
required from her for ‘The Martha Stewart Show,’ the company
said.  The shares have dropped 19 percent this year. The stock
rose 2 percent to $3.57 at the close today in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in New York at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  