-- Asean Reaps Rewards as Clinton Counters China: Southeast Asia
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-07-10T00:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/asean-reaps-rewards-as-clinton-counters-china-southeast-asia.html
Southeast Asia ’s growing economic
importance is fueling a strategic competition among major
powers, prompting the U.S. to step up its engagement in the
region of 600 million people to counter  China .  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will visit Vietnam
and Laos this week before she heads to  Cambodia  to join envoys
from 25 Asia-Pacific nations and the European Union for an
annual security meeting. She’ll also announce “very substantial
new resources” for nations along the Mekong River, Assistant
Secretary of State  Kurt Campbell  said on June 27.  U.S. allies  Japan  and  South Korea  are also pursuing closer
ties in Southeast Asia to counter China’s influence in a region
where economic growth rates are among the world’s highest.
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  announced in May that the U.S.
will deploy 60 percent of its naval power to the Pacific by 2020
as China’s growing economic and military might causes friction
with its neighbors.  “Southeast Asian countries actually like a bit of creative
tension between the U.S. and China because they can play one off
against the other and derive benefits,” said Ian Storey, a
visiting research fellow at the Institute of Southeast Asian
Studies in Singapore. Greater economic integration means “a
major conflict is out of the question because it’s in no one’s
interest and the stakes are too high,” he said.  Asean Expansion  Five economies in the  Association of Southeast Asian
Nations  -- Indonesia, Thailand, Philippines, Malaysia and
Vietnam -- along with China and India will outpace the rest of
the world over the next two years, the  International Monetary
Fund  said in an April  report . In 2013, the Asean-5 will grow 6.2
percent, compared with 2.4 percent in the U.S., 0.9 percent in
the Euro area and 1.7 percent in Japan, it said.  “The United States is making substantially increased
investments -- diplomatic, economic, strategic, and otherwise --
in this part of the world,” Clinton said yesterday in a speech
in the Mongolian capitol of  Ulan Bator . “The heart of our
strategy, the piece that brings everything together, is our
support for democracy and human rights.”  The U.S. is negotiating a nine-country trade deal that
includes four Asean nations, and eased sanctions in May against
Myanmar, formerly known as  Burma , which has taken steps toward
democracy after about five decades of military rule.  “This is a watershed moment for Burma and the United
States stands ready to facilitate economic engagement,”  David
Adelman , the U.S. ambassador to Singapore who will lead a trade
mission to Myanmar next month, wrote in an e-mail. “Southeast
Asia is one of the focal points of the world’s economy right now
and Burma is a market with tremendous growth opportunity.”  China’s Rise  U.S. moves to boost economic ties with Asean come after
China replaced it as the 10-member bloc’s biggest trading
partner over the past decade. China accounted for 11.3 percent
of Asean’s total trade in 2010, compared with 9.1 percent for
the U.S., the group’s  data  show. In 2000, U.S. trade represented
16 percent of Asean’s total, compared with 4 percent for China.  For all their economic expansion, the Asean nations remain
overshadowed by China as a U.S. partner. The U.S. traded $503
billion in goods with China in 2011, more than two-and-a-half
times the combined $194 billion traded with Indonesia, Thailand,
Philippines, Malaysia, Vietnam and other Asean nations,
according to the U.S. Census Bureau.  “The sheer volume of trade between China and the U.S.
dwarfs anything that happens in Southeast Asia,” said Jeremy
Haft, the founder of BChinaB Inc., which helps U.S. companies
buy and sell goods in China. “Our mega-corporations have spent
15 years lining the supply chains and the logistics.”  Not Fragile  China remains the “premier dynamic trade relationship”
for the U.S., said Haft, a member of the  Council on Foreign
Relations .  “It’s not so fragile that we can’t do business in the
region,” Haft said in an interview. “I applaud Secretary
Clinton for her recent maneuvering in the region. It’s the right
message to China: We are strong there and will stay there.”  Nor does the U.S.’s plan to “rebalance” its military
strategy toward the Asia-Pacific region signal a willingness to
tangle head-on with China, a fellow nuclear power, according to
Catharin Dalpino, a visiting scholar on South East Asia at Johns
Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies in Washington.  “I don’t really think U.S. policy is intended to give
false confidence to countries in the region” to act
aggressively toward China, Dalpino said.  Territorial Claims  China’s economic importance has prevented Asean from
forming a common position on issues such as territorial disputes
in the South China Sea, according to  Zhu Zhiqun , a professor at
Bucknell University in Lewisburg,  Pennsylvania . Vietnam’s state-
run oil explorer warned China last month to halt efforts to
develop disputed waters that Hanoi’s leaders already awarded to
companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and OAO Gazprom.  Asean nations with no competing territorial claims see
“their relations with China as probably more important than
their relations with the Philippines, Vietnam or Brunei,” said
Zhu, who is currently at the  National University  of Singapore’s
 East Asian Institute . “They may not openly support China in
this dispute, but the understanding is that they don’t want to
offend China.”  Philippine President  Benigno Aquino  said last week he may
seek help from the U.S., a treaty ally, to help monitor
intrusions in the South China Sea.  ‘Without Threats’  “We have a national interest, as every nation does, in the
freedom of navigation, in the maintenance of peace and
stability, respect for international law, and unimpeded, lawful
commerce in the South China Sea,” Clinton said July 8 in Tokyo.
“Therefore we believe the nations of the Asia Pacific region
should work collaboratively and diplomatically to resolve their
disputes without coercion, without intimidation, without
threats, and without conflict.”  China will work with individual countries involved in the
dispute, Vice Foreign Minister Cui Tiankai said last week in
 Hong Kong , adding that the U.S. had no claims in the waters.  “We respect the role of Asean as being the ‘driver’ in
East Asia cooperation,” Cui said. “China has never coveted
dominance on regional affairs and we don’t think anyone should
ever try to.”  Asean member states reached an agreement yesterday on a
Code of Conduct in the  South China Sea , and will seek talks with
China, Kao Kim Hourn, an official with Cambodia’s foreign
ministry, said in Phnom Penh.  “Right now what we have done was agreed on the key
elements from Asean only,” Kao Kim Hourn said. “From now on,
they have to start discussions with China.”  Mekong Nations  China, which implemented a preferential trade agreement
with Asean in 2010, has established a  state-backed private
equity fund  to invest in Southeast Asia’s infrastructure, energy
and natural resources that aims to have $10 billion in assets
under management. Its $6 trillion economy is about 15 times the
combined size of others in the Greater Mekong Subregion, which
includes Myanmar, Cambodia, Laos, Thailand and Vietnam.  The U.S. began the  Lower Mekong Initiative  in 2009 to boost
ties with Cambodia, Laos, Thailand and Vietnam on health,
education, the environment and infrastructure. After convening
that meeting, Clinton will take executives to meet business
leaders at a forum in Siem Reap, Cambodia.  Japan began similar meetings with Mekong nations in 2009
and in April  pledged  to invest 600 billion yen ($7.5 billion) in
infrastructure over the next three years. South Korea last year
held its first-ever meeting with representatives from countries
along the river and is seeking further cooperation.  Dilute Efforts  Without proper coordination, the various development plans
could dilute efforts by multilateral lenders such as the  Asian
Development Bank  to get the highest return from aid money,
according to  Stephen Groff , a vice-president with the
government-backed lender. At the same time, the increased
interest is natural given the economic uncertainty in the U.S.
and Europe, he said.  “It is the region of the world that is likely to be
driving economic growth for the medium to long term,” Groff
said in an interview. “As much as there are issues around
China, it’s also the fact that this is where it’s going to be
happening in the next 50 years, and these governments recognize
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  