-- U.S. Stocks Fall on Earnings; Commodities, Euro Slump
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-07-10T20:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/asian-stocks-snap-3-day-loss-on-alcoa-results-oil-falls.html
U.S. stocks fell for a fourth day as
pessimism about the earnings season grew while commodity
producers slid amid lower oil and metal prices. The euro reached
a two-year low versus the dollar, while European shares rallied.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.8 percent to
close at 1,341.47 at 4 p.m. in  New York , extending its longest
slump since May. Ten-year Treasury yields slipped one basis
point to 1.50 percent. The euro weakened as much as 0.6 percent
to $1.2235 and touched a record low of 1.199 Australian dollars.
Oil sank 2.4 percent to $83.91 a barrel as a strike in  Norway 
was averted and  China  reduced purchases. Natural gas tumbled 5
percent; nickel and silver lost more than 2 percent.  Reduced sales projections at Advanced Micro Devices Inc.,
Applied Materials Inc. and Cummins Inc. spurred concern about
the groups forecast to post the strongest profit growth among 10
industries in the  S&P 500. (SPXL1)  Technology and industrial company
earnings grew more than 7 percent in the second quarter while
profits for the entire  S&P 500  are projected to have fallen 1.8
percent in the first decrease since 2009, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “The bigger concern is with the next few quarters,” Bruce McCain, who helps oversee more than $20 billion as chief
investment strategist at the private-banking unit of KeyCorp in
Cleveland, said in a phone interview. “Earnings disappointments
suggest that we’re going to have not only weakness this quarter,
but it’s likely to carry on.”  Technology shares in the S&P 500 fell 1.2 percent as a
group and were the biggest drag on the index among the 10 main
industries, while industrial companies slid 1.6 percent for the
largest decline.  Earnings Season  AMD (AMD) , the second-biggest maker of processors for personal
computers, tumbled 11 percent after reporting an unexpected drop
in second-quarter sales, citing weakness in China and Europe.
Micron Technology Inc. and SanDisk Corp. fell at least 4.2
percent. Applied Materials also cited weakness in Europe and
China in cutting its 2012 sales and profit forecasts, sending
shares of the chipmaking-equipment provider down 2.7 percent.  Cummins, a maker of truck engines, tumbled 8.8 percent
after saying order trends have weakened and the company expects
2012 revenue “to be in line” with 2011 after projecting a 10
percent increase in February. Second-quarter preliminary revenue
was about $4.45 billion, the company said, compared with the
average analyst estimate for $5.08 billion.  Alcoa Slumps  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  tumbled 4.1 percent after reporting a quarterly
loss of $2 million and a drop in sales to $5.96 billion from
$6.59 billion. Profit excluding certain items was 6 cents a
share, compared with the 5-cent average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reduced earnings estimates for
Alcoa and cut its share price target to $12 from $14.50 due to
lower aluminum prices.  “I don’t expect the rest of the earnings season to
surprise to the upside,” John Augustine, who helps oversee $25
billion as chief market strategist at Cincinnati-based Fifth
Third Asset Management, said in a phone interview. “Earnings
will be the driver of the market coming up.”  The euro weakened against all 16 major peers as traders
used the currency to fund purchases of higher-yielding assets
five days after the  European Central Bank  reduced its key
 interest rate  to a record 0.75 percent. The shared currency
depreciated even as Europe planned to jump-start as much as 100
billion euros ($123 billion) in loans to shore up Spain’s banks,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said after
chairing a meeting of euro-area finance ministers.  ‘Funding Currency’  “The euro is now the main funding currency, and everyone
wants to be short euro,” said Sebastian Galy, a senior foreign-
exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York. “The
dollar is no longer the main funding currency.” A short
position is a bet currency will decline in value.  The currencies of  Sweden ,  Japan  and South Africa led gains
against the euro, rising more than 0.5 percent. The euro
extended losses as Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said he
won’t serve in another government when his term ends next year.
Monti said he is confident  Italy  would not need a full rescue
from European allies, while not ruling out a request for the
permanent bailout funds to buy the nation’s bonds.  Five shares rose for each that declined in the  Stoxx Europe
600 Index (SXXP) , sending the gauge up 0.8 percent.  ASML Holding NV (ASML) 
jumped 8.6 percent as  Intel Corp ., the world’s largest
semiconductor maker, agreed to invest as much as $4.1 billion in
Dutch chip-equipment maker. Ipsen SA sank 11 percent after U.S.
regulators put clinical trials of a hemophilia drug it’s
developing on hold because of potential safety concerns.  ‘Positive Progress’  European stocks also advanced as U.K. manufacturing rose
1.2 percent from April and industrial output grew 0.8 percent in
Italy, defying the median economist estimates for declines.   Spanish equities  and bonds also gained after finance
chiefs agreed to make available 30 billion euros for struggling
lenders by the end of this month. The goal is to eventually use
the euro-area bailout fund to recapitalize banks directly
instead of saddling the government with the debts.  “It’s positive progress showing that the European Union is
moving towards a banking union,”  Norman Chan , head of
investment at Calibre Asset Management Ltd., a unit of National
Australia Bank Ltd., said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “It shows the EU is being pragmatic.”  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slipped 0.1 percent, a
fifth straight decline. Benchmark gauges in India and Thailand
climbed more than 1 percent, while Brazil’s Bovespa sank 3.1
percent amid lower commodity prices. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of mainland shares slid 0.6 percent. China’s
imports rose less than anticipated in June while growth in
outbound shipments slowed, customs bureau data showed.  The extra yield investors demand to own Spanish 10-year
debt over benchmark German bunds narrowed 25 basis points to
5.49 percent. The yield on 10-year Italian bonds fell 15 basis
points to 5.95 percentage points. Germany’s 10-year yield was
little changed at 1.32 percent.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments dropped 4.1 basis points. The
Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of contracts tied to the debt of
50 mostly junk-rated European companies declined for a second
day, falling 15.3 basis points.  Brent crude  fell 2.3 percent to $97.97 a barrel after the
Norwegian government ordered compulsory arbitration, preventing
a lockout of platform workers that had been scheduled to start
yesterday at midnight. Among the 24 commodities tracked by the
S&P GSCI Index, only coffee and cotton advanced as the gauge
tumbled 1.6 percent. Corn retreated from the highest price since
September and soybeans fell from a four-year high amid
speculation the surge in prices since the middle of June may
curtail global food demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  