-- Aussie Dollar Gains After Consumer Confidence Improves
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-07-11T06:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/australian-dollar-remains-lower-as-stock-losses-curb-risk-demand.html
Australia ’s dollar rose, snapping a
three-day decline, as a private report showing  consumer
confidence  at a five-month high added to signs of economic
resilience.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars gained against most
of their major counterparts as Asian stocks pared earlier
losses, supporting demand for higher-yielding currencies. The
so-called Aussie stayed near a record high versus the euro amid
prospects the  European Central Bank  will lower borrowing costs
further, boosting the yield advantage of the South Pacific
nation’s assets.  “The domestic economy has been doing fairly well in
Australia, and that is likely to lend some support to the
Aussie,” said Takuya Kawabata, a researcher at Gaitame.com
Research Institute Ltd. in  Tokyo , a unit of  Japan ’s largest
currency margin company. “The direction in the commodity
currencies, however, may rather hinge on the global  market
sentiment .”  The Australian currency added 0.3 percent to $1.0227 as of
4:44 p.m. in Sydney from the close in  New York  yesterday,
following a 0.9 percent drop over the previous three trading
sessions. It gained 0.3 percent to 81.13 yen, after yesterday
touching 80.66, the lowest level since June 29. The New Zealand
dollar rose 0.2 percent to 79.57 U.S. cents and fetched 63.13
yen from 63.06.  Australian 10-year bond yields were little changed at 2.99
percent. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares gained 0.1
percent from yesterday, after earlier falling as much as 0.5
percent.  Consumer Confidence  An index of Australian consumer sentiment advanced 3.7
percent in July to 99.1, the highest level since February,
according to a report today from  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and the
Melbourne Institute. Data released earlier this month showed
retail sales increased in May and home-building approvals
climbed by a record.  The  number of loans  in Australia granted to build or buy
houses and apartments declined 1.2 percent in May from the
previous month, when they rose a revised 0.5 percent, a separate
government report indicated today. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists was for a 0.8 percent
increase in approvals.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  signaled this week that euro-
area policy makers may be open to another interest-rate cut if
the economic outlook warrants it. They cut the key rate to an
all-time low of 0.75 percent on July 5.  “The widening yield gap between Australia and  Europe  is
encouraging the Aussie-euro carry trades,” said Kawabata.  In Australia, the central bank kept the overnight cash-rate
target at 3.5 percent last week, the highest among major
developed nations.  The Australian dollar reached a record high of 83.42 euro
cents yesterday before closing at 83.20. It was at 83.39 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  