-- Australia’s Gruen Urges Businesses to Adapt to Stronger Currency
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-10T05:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/australia-s-gruen-urges-businesses-to-adapt-to-stronger-currency.html
Australian companies should adapt to
the local dollar’s strength and boost efficiency to survive,
allowing labor and capital to move to the most productive parts
of the economy, Treasury official David Gruen said.  “Pressure on profitability can provide a strong impetus”
to improve business models, Gruen, executive director of the
Treasury’s macroeconomic group, said in the text of a speech in
Melbourne today. “Part of the challenge is to allow the
pressure currently facing firms in many parts of the economy,
due to the high  exchange rate  and other forces, to encourage the
take-up of new technologies and work practices, and to allow
resources to move to more productive uses.”  Australia ’s currency has appreciated about 80 percent in
the past decade as Chinese demand spurred prices for coal and
iron ore, the nation’s key commodity exports, and fueled a
resource-investment boom. The surge in the terms of trade, a
measure of export prices relative to import prices, has added
1.2 percentage points per year to growth in average incomes
since the turn of the century, Gruen said.  “The gains in Australian living  standards  of the past
decade were more easily achieved than in the 1990s, but they
were achieved in ways that cannot be replicated,” he told a
forum of economists. “The gains of the next decade will rely
overwhelmingly on improvements in productivity.”  Australian management practices are “well below” top
performers such as the U.S., Germany, Sweden, Japan and Canada,
Gruen said, citing a global survey. The nation is closer to
 France , Italy and the U.K. at present, he said.  Scarcely Grown  Australia’s multifactor productivity -- the output produced
from a bundle of labor and capital inputs -- has “scarcely
grown” this decade, Gruen said. While the deterioration in
performance is partly due to unusual developments in mining and
utilities, the slowdown from the 1990s is evident across most
industries, he said.  Gruen’s comments echo statements from the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia, where officials including Governor  Glenn Stevens  have
said the nation needs to boost productivity to increase  living
standards  and maintain low inflation. The central bank cut its
benchmark  interest rate  by a total of 75 basis points in May and
June to 3.5 percent before keeping borrowing costs unchanged
this month.  A separate survey released today showed Australian  workers 
will earn more this year than counterparts in the developed
world. The Hay Group’s 2012 Australian Salary Movement Index
report forecasts salary increases of 4 percent for all
industries in Australia and 6.3 percent for the resources sector
-- ahead of the 3 percent forecast rises in the U.S., U.K. and
 New Zealand .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  