-- Australian Business Confidence Slumps to 10-Month Low on China
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-10T01:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/australian-business-confidence-slumps-to-10-month-low-on-china.html
Australian  business confidence  fell
to a 10-month low in June as concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis
will slow Chinese growth overshadowed central bank interest-rate
reductions, a private survey showed.  The  confidence index  slipped to minus 3 last month from
minus 2 in May, a  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  survey of more
than 300 companies taken June 19-29 and released in Sydney today
showed. The business conditions gauge, a measure of hiring,
sales and profits, improved to minus 1 from minus 4.  “Business confidence fell heavily in mining in June --
down 18 to -14 points -- likely reflecting the recent downgrade
to the Chinese growth outlook and concerns about the stability
of the euro, with both of these factors influencing the outlook
for global commodity demand,” NAB Chief Economist  Alan Oster 
said. Anticipation of a July 1 introduction of a levy on  iron
ore  and coal mining profits also was a factor, he said.  China, Australia’s biggest trading partner, cut rates on
July 5 for the second time in four weeks and Australian policy
makers lowered borrowing costs by a total of 75 basis points in
May and June as Europe’s turmoil threatened to disrupt the
global economy. Driving Australia’s growth is a A$500 billion
($510 billion) pipeline of investment in resource projects by
companies such as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining
company, to meet demand from emerging nations in Asia.  The Australian dollar rose 5.2 percent in June, its biggest
monthly increase since October, and the currency’s sustained
strength is hurting non-resource industries such as
manufacturing and tourism. In addition to the resource taxes,
the government this month introduced a levy on  carbon emissions 
designed to reduce pollution.  RBA Outlook  Traders are pricing in a 66 percent chance  Reserve Bank  of
Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will lower the benchmark rate
by a quarter-percentage-point to 3.25 percent at next month’s
policy meeting, Bloomberg data based on swaps trading show.  Australia faces a two-speed economy -- a phrase the RBA
uses to distinguish resource-rich regions in the north and west
that are powering growth and hiring workers, from struggling
industries across the south and east.  While business conditions improved, driven by a pickup in
trading conditions and profitability, the rise was not enough to
unwind the deterioration in the previous month, NAB said.  “Employment conditions remained weak,” Oster said.
Stronger conditions were fairly broad-based across industries,
“but not across states; the divergence between Victoria and
Western Australia has become increasingly pronounced. Forward
orders sank to the lowest level in three years, driven largely
by a heavy fall in manufacturing orders. However, capacity
utilization and stocks did improve a touch, albeit from low
levels,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  