-- Banks May See DVA Changes as Gains Predicted for Second Quarter
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-07-10T21:19:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/banks-may-see-dva-changes-as-gains-predicted-for-second-quarter.html
Changes in fair value in the debt of
U.S. banks, which have caused multibillion-dollar swings in the
earnings of lenders such as  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , soon may cease to show up in net income.  Gains and losses resulting from the changes, known as debt
valuation adjustments, should appear in other comprehensive
income instead of earnings, the  Financial Accounting Standards
Board  decided in a meeting last month. Christine Klimek, a FASB
spokeswoman, said the group probably will release a proposal in
the fourth quarter and a public-comment period will follow.  The accounting rule that resulted in debt valuation
adjustments, or DVA, was adopted in 2007. It allowed companies
to designate some of their liabilities as fair value, meaning
that the firms would book gains when the price of their debt
fell and losses when it appreciated.  Morgan Stanley is estimated to have a gain of $1 billion
tied to DVA in the second quarter after it had a $2 billion loss
in the previous three months, according to Charles Peabody, a
Portales Partners LLC analyst. New York-based JPMorgan had a
$900 million loss in the first quarter and could post a gain of
$500 million for the second period, Peabody estimated.  The rule, enacted after New York-based firms including
Morgan Stanley and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  lobbied for it, has
been criticized for producing results that run counter to banks’
actual performance.  Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 53,
last year called the standard a “bizarre accounting anomaly.”
Chris Kotowski, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., said in a note
last month that the rule “remains our nominee as the single
worst accounting standard ever.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  