-- Baseball’s First All-Star Game, a Gimmick That Endured
-- B y   L a w r e n c e   G o l d s t o n e
-- 2012-07-10T14:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/baseball-s-first-all-star-game-a-gimmick-that-endured.html
In 1928, to capitalize on a booming
economy that everyone just knew would continue to improve, a
group of Chicago businessmen decided to commemorate the city’s
centennial by promoting a 1933 World’s Fair.  One hundred million visitors were expected to come to the
400 acres of new parkland along  Lake Michigan  and deposit their
wealth into city coffers. Operating funds were raised with a $10
million bond sale on Oct. 28, 1929. The next day, the stock
market crashed.  As the country sank into the Great Depression, the
organizers felt they had little choice but to soldier on.
Folding would mean the loss of thousands of construction jobs.
But faced with a fiscal and public-relations disaster, city
fathers cast about for anything that might entice visitors to
the fair. Robert Rutherford McCormick, the publisher of the
 Chicago Tribune , called in Arch Ward, the newspaper’s sports
editor and a man of big ideas. Ward had cut his teeth on
hyperbole at  Notre Dame  as Knute Rockne’s publicist.  Ward suggested a one-time-only “dream game” between the
best players of the  American League  versus the best of the
National. The managers would be two legends:  Connie Mack  and the
recently retired John J. McGraw. Fans would choose the
participants and, to demonstrate a touch of altruism, proceeds
would go to help indigent former players. In addition to its
obvious attractions, the event would give Cubs fans another shot
at  Babe Ruth , who had humiliated them in the 1932 World Series.  Dream Game  The game was scheduled for July 6, 1933, at Comiskey Park
(Wrigley Field lost in a coin flip) six weeks after the fair
opened. More than half a million ballots clipped from 56
newspapers were mailed in and tickets for the 48,000-seat
stadium sold out in two days.  The rosters were everything Ward could have hoped for:
Ruth, Gehrig, Simmons, Foxx, Grove, and Gomez against Hartnett,
Terry, Frisch, Waner, Hubbell and Schumacher. Exhibition or not,
both managers were determined to win and the All Stars played as
hard as if it was the seventh game of the Series.  The game was an immense success. Ruth hit a two-run homer
and the American Leaguers denied Cubs fans revenge by holding
off the Nationals, 4-2. (There was some irony, as well. The
first ever All-Star Game run was batted in by the winning
pitcher Lefty Gomez, who spent his career extolling his
ineptitude at the plate.)  Although there was resistance to continuing the event --
some thought one “game of the century” was enough -- baseball
wasn’t about to pass up a full stadium and fawning press, so the
All-Star Game was made an annual event. Other sports followed
suit.  For decades, the decision seemed sound. The All-Star Game
became a jewel in baseball’s tiara. The opportunity to see  Ted Williams  or  Joe DiMaggio  or Stan Musial or  Sandy Koufax  go
against the best of the opposing league was irresistible to
fans. So baseball made the game even bigger. Rosters were
expanded, voting rules changed and the league even launched a
second annual All-Star Game in 1959.  But ultimately, all the sizzle couldn’t disguise that the
game was a novelty and essentially meaningless. Eventually the
players caught on, as well. Some begged off because of minor
injuries or just because they wanted the rest. Many played at
less than full speed ( Pete Rose  being a notable exception). The
two-game format had to be scrapped after four miserable years.
Television ratings dropped.  In recent years, baseball has scrambled to reignite the
flame. Gimmicks like the Home Run Derby were added. The league
even decided in 2003 to award home-field advantage in the  World
Series  to the winning side. But none of it has worked. Every
year, baseball struggles to promote an event that often seems
like little more than a distraction from the pennant race.  Other sports have similar problems. Basketball’s All-Star
Game regularly elicits yawns in games that total 300 points and
football’s  Pro Bowl  is so lackluster that the  National Football
League  is considering dropping it entirely. A novelty can be
expanded only so much before it is broadened into irrelevancy.  ( Lawrence Goldstone  is the co-author of “Lefty: An American
Odyssey.” The opinions expressed are his own.)
Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Lawrence Goldstone at
 info@lawrencegoldstone.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 