-- Berlin’s Botticellis, Rembrandts Entangled in Protest
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-07-10T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/berlin-s-botticellis-rembrandts-entangled-in-protest.html
Berlin’s Botticellis, Rembrandts and
Titians are at the center of a stormy debate as plans to take
them out of the Gemaeldegalerie to make way for 20th-century art
spark online petitions and furious newspaper columns.  More than 7,200 people have signed one  petition  calling on
Berlin to “reconsider the plan to empty the Gemaeldegalerie of
 Old Masters .” A June 28 column in the  Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung  said the plan threatened to “destroy one of the best
museums in the world.” The move is “an act of barbarism,”
said an opinion piece in Die Zeit, a weekly newspaper.  The petition is addressed to Hermann Parzinger, the
president of the  Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation . He
argues that the Old Masters will only be homeless temporarily,
because Berlin plans to build a new museum in the Museum Island
complex near the city’s central boulevard, Unter den Linden.  “The people signing the petitions are not getting the
whole picture,” Parzinger said in an interview at his Berlin
office. “For us, Museum Island is the German Louvre, and the
most important medium is missing -- painting. The goal is to
find the best possible home, not just for the art of the 20th
century, but also for the Old Masters.”  Encompassing more than 3,000 works spanning five centuries,
Berlin’s collection of Old Masters is one of the world’s
greatest. Its treasures include works by Raphael, Brueghel,
Vermeer, Duerer and Caravaggio. Their impending move from the
Potsdamer Platz Gemaeldegalerie was announced after the city
acquired a private collection of 150 Surrealist paintings,
sculptures and drawings from Ulla and Heiner Pietzsch.  Magritte, Miro  With an estimated value of 150 million euros ($185
million), the Pietzsch collection includes works by  Max Ernst ,
 Rene Magritte  and  Joan Miro  as well as American abstract
expressionists such as  Mark Rothko  and  Jackson Pollock . The
Pietzsches made the gift on condition that it would be displayed
in one of Berlin’s big museums.  Jeffrey Hamburger, a professor of German art and culture at
 Harvard University  and the initiator of the online petition,
said removing the Old Masters from the Gemaeldegalerie without
first providing a permanent home for them is not acceptable.  “The Gemaeldegalerie is on a par with the  National Gallery 
in  London  and the  Prado  in  Madrid ,” Hamburger said by
telephone. “To contemplate putting a significant portion of the
artworks into storage is shocking.”  Revamp, Refit  German Culture Minister Bernd Neumann announced last month
that the government will finance the remodeling of the
Gemaeldegalerie to house 20th-century art at a cost of 10
million euros. Parzinger said the revamped Gemaeldegalerie, next
to the Neue Nationalgalerie at Potsdamer Platz, will allow
Berlin to show its modern-art collections in full for the first
time. He said the refitting can be completed by 2016.  “Our central problem is that even without the Pietzsch
collection, our own possessions can’t be shown in total,”
Parzinger said. “They can only be shown piecemeal. The Pietzsch
collection complements our own wonderfully, and the acquisition
of that has set the ball rolling, but it is a question of much,
much more than that.”  Until a new museum is built to accommodate the Old Masters,
some paintings are to be displayed at the Bode Museum on Museum
Island, currently home to Berlin’s sculpture collection,
Parzinger said. He said he’s also looking at other options for
displaying the rest.  Design Contest  Parzinger estimates that construction of the new museum
will take about five years and may begin in 2018. He said no Old
Masters will be removed from the Gemaeldegalerie before the
German government, which will fund the construction, gives the
green light for the new museum by announcing an architecture
competition.  Museum Island will be “a unique constellation with
outstanding collections showing the development of art from
antiquity to the 19th century, and we have the opportunity to
make it happen,” Parzinger said. “If we don’t do it step by
step, it will never happen.”  Hamburger remains skeptical.  “It is Panglossian to think that such an arrangement can
come about in six years,” he said. “It is likely to take
decades, and that would be a crime. This seems like contempt for
the legacy of the past.”  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on London dining,
 James Pressley  on books,  Ryan Sutton  on  New York  dining and
 Zinta Lundborg’s  interviews.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 