-- BET Founder Johnson Sees Online Forcing Cable to Unbundle
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i ,   J o n a t h a n   E r l i c h m a n   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-07-10T22:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/bet-founder-johnson-sees-online-forcing-cable-to-unbundle.html
Robert Johnson , the founder of BET,
said online viewing options will force the pay-TV industry to
unbundle its channel choices within two years.  Seventeen channels account for 85 percent of cable
television viewers, Johnson said today at the Allen & Co. media
conference in Sun Valley, Idaho.  “Something’s got to give,” Johnson said as he arrived at
the resort.  Online services such as Hulu LLC and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  that
don’t force consumers to buy channels they don’t watch will
pressure cable operators to offer individual networks at lower
prices, Johnson said. Smaller channels may have to merge, he
said.  Surging prices for sports and other cable TV content are
being passed along to consumers in higher monthly bills,
according to Johnson.  “They can’t keep passing on to consumers 10 percent
increases,” Johnson said. “At some point consumers are going
to say, ‘Enough is enough.’”  Johnson, 66, became the first black billionaire in the
U.S., and the first African American to list a company on the
 New York  Stock Exchange. He sold BET Holdings Inc., named for
Black Entertainment Television, to  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  in 2001.  Johnson said he has raised $144 million through  RLJ
Acquisition Inc. (RLJA) , a publicly traded vehicle that is acquiring
two content companies, Image Entertainment and Acorn Media Group
Inc., to sell digital versions of programs to a black, urban
audience -- the same target as BET.  “If you’ve got content, you’re in a great position,”
Johnson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Erlichman in New York at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  