-- MBIA Drops as Regulator Balks on Note Payment
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-07-10T20:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/mbia-says-n-y-regulator-hasn-t-approved-payment-on-surplus-note.html
MBIA Inc. (MBI)  fell the most in 11 months
after the bond insurer said a regulator hasn’t decided whether
to allow a unit that backed soured mortgage debt to make an
interest payment on notes next week.  The insurer  dropped  as much as 12 percent to $9.35 after it
said in a regulatory  filing  that the  New York  State Department
of Financial Services hasn’t approved a July 16 payment by the
MBIA Insurance Corp. unit on its 14 percent surplus notes
maturing in 2033. The shares pared the loss, trading at $9.66 at
4:15 p.m. in New York, as MKM Partners LLC analyst Harry Fong
said the delay doesn’t harm the company or policyholders.  The announcement may have fueled concern that the insurance
unit’s financial standing is worse than investors had
anticipated, adding support to banks that are challenging a 2009
restructuring of Armonk, New York-based MBIA, Fong said in a
note recommending that clients buy amid the decline. No cash is
due from the unit if the regulator doesn’t approve the step,
meaning a missed payment wouldn’t be a default, MBIA said.  “MBIA filed to have this payment approved more than a
month ago and has the liquidity to make the payment,” Fong
said. “While we do not know what the NYSDFS will ultimately
decide, we believe that its decision will have little bearing”
on the restructuring case, he wrote.  Bolstering Capital  The guarantor sold the notes in 2008 to bolster capital
amid soaring defaults on subprime home loans, delaying a
reduction of its then-top credit ratings. Surplus notes are
bonds issued by insurance companies that state insurance
regulators consider equity. In the event of a bankruptcy, the
notes are repaid after other creditors and before stockholders.  Kevin Brown , an MBIA spokesman, declined to comment
further.  MBIA, which was shut out of the business of backing
municipal debt because of the losses on home-loan and
commercial-mortgage securities, split its MBIA Insurance
subsidiary in 2009 with the blessing of the regulator in an
effort to revive the muni business.  Lenders including Bank of America Corp. and Societe
Generale SA, which bought protection against losses on mortgage-
debt from MBIA, sued the insurer and regulator to reverse the
split. That case is now being considered by a New York State
Supreme Court judge after a four-week trial that concluded June
7. The banks claimed the restructuring exposed policyholders to
losses by transferring $5 billion in assets out of MBIA
Insurance and into the municipal unit.  If the regulator doesn’t approve the interest payment,
“the company’s policyholders would benefit, as there would be
an extra $60 million to $70 million at the insurance
subsidiary,” Fong wrote.  Ronald Klug, a spokesman for the department, declined to
comment. Robert Giuffra, a lawyer with Sullivan & Cromwell LLP
who represents the banks suing the insurer, didn’t immediately
return phone and e-mail messages. A separate lawsuit filed
against MBIA in New York state court over the split is pending.  The MBIA Insurance unit now carries speculative-grade
ratings from both Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard &
Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  