-- Big Subsidies Will Push States to Expand Medicaid
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-07-10T22:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/big-subsidies-will-push-states-to-expand-medicaid.html
Timing. That’s the crucial element
missing from the rancorous debate, prompted by the U.S. Supreme
Court’s health-care ruling, over whether states will decide not
to expand Medicaid.  Officials in the Obama administration confidently predict
that few, if any, states will opt out of the expansion.
Opponents say most of them will.  My guess is, both sides are right. Many states seem likely
to opt out at first, judging by what their governors have  said .
Over time, however, assuming the law stays in place, most states
will find it hard to resist the substantial subsidies for new
enrollees. After all, over the past few decades, states have
gradually added optional benefits and expanded the number of
beneficiaries beyond the bare minimum required by the federal
government. And they have done so in response to much smaller
subsidies than offered under the 2010 health-care-reform law.  Before the court’s ruling, the Affordable Care Act was
 projected  to reduce the number of uninsured Americans by 30
million to 33 million in 2016 and beyond. More than half of
those additional insured -- 16 million to 17 million -- were
expected to gain coverage through the enlargement of Medicaid
and the Children’s Health Insurance Program.  During the first three years, 2014 to 2016, the federal
government is to fully subsidize this expansion. Then, the
subsidy is scheduled to gradually decrease, but only to 90
percent in 2020 and thereafter. The average federal subsidy for
current Medicaid beneficiaries is much lower; it varies from
state to state but averages less than 60 percent.  State Share  Looking at the decade ahead as a whole, the  Congressional
Budget Office  has projected that the federal government will pay
93 percent of the Medicaid costs added under the health-care-
reform law. The 7 percent state share would generate less than a
3 percent increase in total state Medicaid spending over that
time, the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities  has  calculated .  The additional costs depend on current Medicaid eligibility
patterns, which vary from state to state,  research  from the
Kaiser Family Foundation shows. Some states, such as Maine and
 Massachusetts , are projected to experience a reduction in their
own costs because the federal government will pay a higher
matching rate on beneficiaries that those states already cover.
Other states, such as  Texas , would face higher costs because
their existing coverage is so skimpy. Even in Texas, though,
state Medicaid costs would rise by only about 5 percent over the
coming decade. That’s not nothing, but it’s also not a tidal
wave.  On average nationwide, the additional state spending would
amount to less than $600 per year for each additional insured
beneficiary. So what do state governments get in exchange for
that $600?  First and most important, they help their residents. Both
common sense and hard evidence (see, for example, the ongoing
randomized  study of Medicaid recipients  in  Oregon ) indicates
that access to Medicaid reduces people’s financial strain and
improves their self-reported health (while also increasing their
use of health-care services).  Second, state governments enjoy reductions in other costs,
so that the net impact on their budgets is less than $600 per
beneficiary. For example, as the number of uninsured decreases,
so does the cost of uncompensated care. In 2008, state and local
governments paid roughly 20 percent of the hospital costs for
uninsured people, according to an  Urban Institute study . State
governments also save on mental-health services for the
uninsured.  The bottom line is that given the steep federal subsidies
being offered, it seems likely that states will eventually take
up the additional coverage, even if they resist at first.  Subsidy Effect  To see how federal subsidies make it attractive for states
to expand coverage, just look at the Medicaid program as it
exists today. In 2007, about 60 percent of Medicaid costs were
not federally required, according to  research  by Brigette
Courtot and Emily Lawton of the  Urban Institute  and Samantha
Artiga of the Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured.
Instead, they reflect additional benefits that state governments
have chosen to cover, or optional beneficiaries that states have
decided to include in the program.  In other words, an average federal matching rate of less
than 60 percent has proved sufficient incentive for state
governments to include optional add-ons -- to the point that
those add-ons account for the majority of Medicaid costs. This
suggests that states will find it hard to resist a match rate of
90 percent for very long.  The process, moreover, will probably be asymmetrical: Once
a state takes up the highly subsidized additional coverage, it
will be very likely to keep it. But even if it refuses the offer
initially, it can easily change its mind later on.  Two important factors affect this analysis. First, if
Medicaid is turned into a block grant, as some policy makers
favor, the federal government’s payments would be fixed, no
longer providing an incentive to expand coverage on the margin.
(A future column will explain why block-granting Medicaid,
though it may seem superficially attractive, would cause
problems.)  Second, even without a fundamental change in Medicaid, some
state policy makers are legitimately worried about whether the
90 percent matching rate will remain in place, given the federal
government’s own long-term deficit challenges.  That concern once again highlights the benefits of a
 barbell fiscal policy : stimulus today coupled with  deficit
reduction  that is enacted, but not carried out, right away. By
providing more certainty about how the long-term fiscal gap will
be narrowed, such an approach would attenuate the wavering
governors’ concern that they will one day have the rug pulled
out from under them.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Washington ’s  inability to
move on  and  Israel ’s debate over  Jewish settlements ;  Mark
Buchanan  on living cells as a model for a  stable financial
system ;  Margaret Carlson  on  presidential vacations ;  Alex
Marshall  on health care and the  rising bar for government
services .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Peter Orszag  at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  