-- Billionaire Forrest Leads BlackRock Buying Iron Ore: Commodities
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-07-11T10:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/billionaire-forrest-leads-blackrock-buying-iron-ore-commodities.html
Australia’s richest man  Andrew Forrest  is buying iron ore shares at a time when producers are
at their cheapest level in three years.  Forrest, the founder of Australia’s third-biggest iron-ore
exporter  Fortescue (FMG)  Metals Group Ltd., spent A$135 million ($137
million)  buying stock  in his company in June.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,
the world’s biggest money manager, this month outlaid about A$94
million to lift its Fortescue stake. The steelmaking raw
material is forecast to gain 18 percent by the second quarter
next year, data from three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg shows.  New iron ore mines and expansions are being delayed by
rising costs at the same time as data yesterday showed imports
by China, the world’s biggest steelmaker, rose to a record. The
data came the same month a survey modeled on the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s Beige Book showed China’s economy is in better shape
than official statistics suggest.  “It’s not just Fortescue, there are other iron ore
companies all over the world that are offering great value,”
 Evy Hambro , portfolio manager of BlackRock Inc.’s $11 billion
World Mining Fund in London, said by phone. “You’ve had a very
clear signal sent to the market by Andrew Forrest that he’s
putting his money where his mouth is in terms of increasing his
holding.”  Iron ore companies in the  Bloomberg Industries Global Iron
Ore Mining Index (BWMING)  are trading at 5.6 times earnings. The last
time the index ratio fell below 6 times earnings was in January
2009. Iron ore companies underperformed the price of the raw
material by about 8 percent in the second quarter, according to
Bloomberg Industries.  China Concerns  “The whole resource sector has dropped as a consequence of
concern about China’s growth profiles and Europe and that
provides opportunities for those that are more focused on
individual propositions to invest and make good returns,”  John Robinson , Melbourne-based chairman of Global Mining Investment
Ltd., said by phone. His fund owns shares in Rio Tinto Group,
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Fortescue and  Atlas Iron Ltd. (AGO) , and has been
boosting its iron-ore position in the past year. The fund is
overseen by BlackRock.  London’s  Ferrexpo Plc (FXPO)  as well as Arrium Ltd., the Sydney-
based steel and iron-ore producer that changed its name from
OneSteel this month, and Cleveland, Ohio’s  Cliffs Natural
Resources Inc. (CLF)  have the lowest forecast price to earnings ratio
of producers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Atlas Iron  BlackRock Fund Advisors on July 6 disclosed the purchase of
19.2 million shares in Fortescue, taking its stake to about 2
percent. BNP Paribas SA bought 2.3 million Ferrexpo shares on
April 30 and Schroder Investment Management Ltd. bought 14.1
million shares in Atlas Iron on May 31, increasing its stake to
8.58 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fortescue rose 1.7 percent to A$4.92 at the close of
trading in Sydney, while the key S&P/ASX 200 Index ended little
changed. Arrium was unchanged. Ferrexpo gained 5.5 percent in
London trading yesterday.  Schroder declined to comment on the purchase when contacted
by e-mail, citing a global policy not to comment on stocks.
Anita Poppi, a Sydney-based spokeswoman for BNP Paribas, wasn’t
immediately able to comment.  Project delays and rising costs are crimping new supply are
helping push prices higher, while China’s domestic iron-ore
producers struggle to turn a profit, said Justin Smirk, a
Sydney-based commodity analyst with Westpac Banking Corp.  ‘Getting Suspicious’  “We’re getting increasingly suspicious of estimates of
large supply responses,” he said by phone. He’s forecasting
iron ore to trade at $185 a metric ton by the third quarter of
next year from $135.50 a ton currently. “China’s ability to
raise domestic iron-ore production profitably is being hampered
by rising costs.”  China’s iron ore imports in the first six months this year
gained 9.7 percent from a year earlier to a record 366.2 million
tons, General Customs data showed yesterday. The previous record
was set in the second half of 2011.  Delayed projects include  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s Minas Rio in
Brazil, which was originally slated to open in 2009, and
Simandou in Guinea, which  Rio Tinto  anticipates will start in
2015 rather than next year, as previously forecast.  Vale (VALE)  SA, the world’s largest producer, delayed an $8
billion expansion of the Serra Sul project last year because of
permitting issues, higher costs and labor shortages. Hancock
Prospecting Pty, controlled by Asia’s richest woman Gina
Rinehart, said last month it will delay the Roy Hill project
because of a legal challenge.  Wealth Rankings  Rinehart is ranked as the 29th wealthiest person in the
world with a net worth of $18.7 billion, according to the daily
Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Forrest’s net worth is estimated
at $5.2 billion, according to data compiled and calculated by
Bloomberg, ranking him second behind Rinehart in Australia.  Fortescue spokeswoman Yvonne Ball declined to comment on
Forrest’s purchases when contacted by phone.  The China Beige Book, through interviews of about 2,000
company executives and bankers from May 14 to June 8, found
manufacturing and retail sales strengthened, in contrast with
official data that showed the weakest non-holiday sales growth
since 2006 in May.  The survey by CBB International LLC suggests China’s
measures to reverse the deepest slowdown since 2008 may be
boosting growth even as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis crimps
exports.  More Stimulus  “We’ve already seen lower rates out of China and we expect
there’d be additional fiscal stimulus,”  Tim Schroeders , who
helps manage $1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne,
said in a telephone interview.  The data contrast with another private survey watched by
investors, the manufacturing purchasing managers’ index released
monthly by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. That gauge
fell in June to the lowest level since November, showing a
contraction for an eighth straight month. The survey covers
executives at more than 400 companies.  Customs data yesterday also showed China’s total imports
rose less than anticipated in June as export growth slowed,
adding pressure on the government to support demand.  The weaker data may lead to more stimulus measures that
would benefit raw material suppliers, underpinning demand for
their products as China’s new government seeks to boost the
economy during the second half of the year, said Schroeders.  China Urbanization  “A lot of people are arguing we’re currently seeing the
peak in growth in Chinese steel demand,” Westpac’s Smirk said.
“We disagree, we don’t think that’s going to occur until
2015-16.”  Rio Tinto (RIO) , the second-largest shipper of iron ore, expects
China to boost steel output by 43 percent to 1 billion tons by
2013 as it continues to urbanize. Global steel demand will
probably increase 3.6 percent this year, from 5.6 percent in
2011, the World Steel Association said in April.  The London-based company sees the nation’s growth
accelerating in the second half and is tipping annual growth of
8 percent, beating China’s target of 7.5 percent.  Vale is the cheapest of the three biggest exporters and may
have a price to earnings ratio of 5.6 times next year, compared
with its current ratio of 5.8 times. The ratio for Rio is
estimated to decline to 6 from 7 times and BHP’s ratio will be
8.9 from 9.6 times.  “A doomsday scenario where prices collapse to sub-$100 a
ton in the next six months looks unlikely,” said Pengana’s
Schroeders. He’s bought Rio Tinto, BHP and Fortescue shares in
the past two months. “Under that scenario the companies look
relatively cheap.”  Buy Ratings  Rio has 28 buy ratings, representing 88 percent of ratings,
the most of the iron ore producers considered, followed by
India’s  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA)  and Fortescue with 20 buy ratings each, or
50 percent of ratings and 95 percent respectively. South
Africa’s  Assore Ltd. (ASR)  has the lowest with 2 ratings and then
Kumba Iron Ore Ltd., controlled by London-based Anglo American,
both representing one third of analysts.  Brazil’s  MMX Mineracao (MMXM3) , India’s  NMDC Ltd (NMDC)  and  Cap SA (CAP) ,
Chile’s biggest steel and iron-ore producer, are forecast to be
the three most expensive of the companies compiled by Bloomberg.  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said downward pressure on the
economy is still “relatively large” and the government will
intensify fine-tuning of policies, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported July 8. Asia’s largest economy probably grew at
the slowest pace in three years in the second quarter.  There are now signs that growth may steady after leaders
stepped up stimulus to counter a slowdown and new home prices
rose for the first time in 10 months in June.  “The Chinese are working very hard to restore growth in
the economy,” said GMI’s Robinson. “The graduated response
they’re showing at the moment is welcome and a good sign for the
resource sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  