-- Blackstone Said to Be Moving Toward Sale of Office Assets
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-07-10T21:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/blackstone-said-to-be-moving-toward-sale-of-office-assets.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , whose 2007
takeover of Equity Office Properties Trust made it one of the
largest U.S. office landlords, is preparing to sell its office
holdings over the next 18 months, according to two people with
knowledge of its plans.  The private-equity firm may sell groups of buildings to
buyers seeking to bolster their regional holdings, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the plans are
private. The New York-based company is also considering taking
its office portfolio public, they said.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for Blackstone, declined to
comment. The sale plans were reported earlier today by the Wall
Street Journal.  Blackstone bought Equity Office, known as EOP, for $39
billion including assumed debt in February 2007 as commercial
real estate prices were nearing a high. It resold more than $30
billion of the buildings to pay down borrowings, keeping
properties in markets including Northern California, West  Los
Angeles  and Boston.  U.S. commercial-property prices are recovering after
falling as much as 39 percent from a 2007 peak, according to an
index compiled by Moody’s Investors Service and Real Capital
Analytics Inc. The  gauge  has climbed 26 percent from a January
2010 low.  Blackstone’s office division owns stakes in about 70
million square feet (6.5 million square meters) of space,
according to its website. Top-quality office buildings in
coastal markets such as  San Francisco  and Los Angeles fetched in
the low $300s per square foot in the past year, according to
 Reis Inc. (REIS) , a New York-based research firm. That suggests the
assets may be valued at more than $21 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  