-- Boston Area Man to Plead Guilty to Attack Plot, U.S. Says
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-07-10T16:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/boston-area-man-to-plead-guilty-to-pentagon-attack-plan-1-.html
A Massachusetts man agreed to plead
guilty to charges that he planned to blow up the Pentagon and
the U.S. Capitol and provided support to terrorists.  Rezwan Ferdaus, 26, of Ashland, Massachusetts, will plead
guilty to two counts, according to a federal court filing in
 Boston  today. Four other charges will be dropped. Ferdaus agreed
to a recommended sentence of 17 years in prison plus 10 years of
supervised release.  Ferdaus, who earned a bachelor’s degree in physics from
 Northeastern University , will admit he planned to crash remote-
controlled planes filled with explosives into the federal
buildings and provided material support to al-Qaeda by turning
mobile phones into detonators, according to court papers. He
supplied 12 mobile phones modified to act as switches for
explosives to undercover federal agents, the prosecutors said.  A change-of-plea hearing will be conducted July 20 by U.S.
District Judge Richard Stearns in Boston. Ferdaus pleaded not
guilty to the six charges in October.  He was arrested in September after a sting operation
conducted by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation . He made a
video on how to turn a mobile phone into a detonator, the
prosecutors said.  The arrest came after he stored explosives and weapons
delivered by undercover agents. They included 25 pounds of what
he thought were C-4 plastic explosives, six automatic AK-47
machine guns and three grenades.  Miriam Conrad, the federal defender who is Ferdaus’s
attorney, argued in court that the FBI pursued the sting despite
signs that Ferdaus was mentally ill and his attempts to break
off communications with the agents. Conrad didn’t immediately
reply to a message seeking comment on the plea.  Ferdaus has been held without bail. When he acquired a
remote-controlled plane, he used as an alias the name Dave
Winfield.  The case is U.S. v. Ferdaus, 11-10331, U.S. District Court,
District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in Boston
at  jmlawrence@mac.com ;
Don Jeffrey in  New York 
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 