-- Brazil’s Sugar Exports Are Even More Profitable Than Local Sales
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-10T07:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/brazil-s-sugar-exports-are-even-more-profitable-than-local-sales.html
Sugar exports from  Brazil , the
world’s biggest producer, are even more profitable than domestic
sales because of delays in overseas shipments, according to
Cepea, a University of  Sao Paulo  research group.  Exports of the sweetener were 10 percent more profitable
than domestic sales last week, up from 7.3 percent a week
earlier, Cepea said in a report yesterday. Raw sugar on ICE
Futures U.S. in  New York  rose 5.9 percent last week while
domestic prices fell 1.5 percent, Cepea data show. Rain delayed
shipments in Brazil while dry weather in  India , the second
biggest producer, may curb its crop prospects.  “In the international market, prices continued increasing,
partly influenced by delays of sugar shipments at Brazilian
ports,” Heloisa Lee Burnquist, a Cepea analyst, said in the
report. “Another reason is the delay of rains in India.”  In the domestic market, buyers are seeking lower prices
even with limited sugar available, she said. Some mills have
accepted lower prices “due to the need to make  cash flow .”  Above average rains in May and June resulted in sugar
output in Brazil’s center south, the country’s main growing
area, falling 28 percent to about 4.9 million metric tons
through June 15, according to data from industry group Unica.
Since June 1, rain in India was 25 percent below the 50-year
average, the government estimates.  Drier weather conditions in the past two weeks have been
favoring harvesting in the state of Sao Paulo, Burnquist said.
Sugar stockpiles are low because most of the sugar produced is
exported or delivered under pre-signed contracts, she said.  Sales of sugar in Brazil’s domestic market last week were
26 percent more profitable than anhydrous ethanol, the kind used
to blend into gasoline, and 48 percent more advantageous than
hydrous ethanol, used in flex fuel cars, Cepea said. Both the
sweetener and the biofuel are made from sugar cane.  “The widening gap between hydrous and anhydrous product
can partly be explained with the growing demand for the latter
in the  United States ,” German researcher F.O. Licht GmbH said
in a report yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  