-- Breast-Feeding May Help Women Fight Obesity Decades Later
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-07-10T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/breast-feeding-may-help-women-fight-obesity-decades-later.html
Breast-feeding may help mothers
reduce the risk of obesity later in life, according to a study
of 740,000 post-menopausal women in the U.K.  For every six months women breast-fed, their body mass
index was 0.22, or 1 percent, lower, even decades after giving
birth, according to the research, which was published today in
the  International Journal of Obesity . The observation was made
across socioeconomic groups and regardless of the number of
children the women had.  While the body-fat measure, known as BMI, was higher in
women who gave birth to more children, it was lower in mothers
who breast-fed than in those who hadn’t. Breast-feeding has also
been found to reduce the risk of  childhood obesity . More than
1.4 billion adults globally are overweight and at least 500
million of them are obese, with a BMI of 30 or more, according
to the  World Health Organization .  “A 1 percent reduction in BMI may seem small, but spread
across the population of the U.K., that could mean about 10,000
fewer premature deaths per decade from obesity-related
conditions, such as diabetes,  heart disease  and some cancers,”
Valerie Beral, co-author of the study and director of the Cancer
Epidemiology Unit at the University of Oxford, said in a
statement.  The study, funded by Cancer Research UK and the  Medical
Research Council , used data from the  Million Women Study , which
investigates how reproductive and lifestyle choices affect
women’s health. Of the 740,000 participants in today’s study, 88
percent had had at least one child and 70 percent of those women
had breast-fed for an average of 7.7 months.  The average age of the women in the study was 57.5 and the
mean BMI was 26.2.  BMI  is a measure of body fat calculated using
a person’s height and weight. A person whose BMI is between 25
and 30 is considered overweight, while one whose BMI is 30 or
greater is obese.  While the exact reason for the lower BMI years after giving
birth wasn’t studied, breast-feeding may set mothers on a
healthier trajectory that is long-lasting, Beral said. It seems
to be “a very simple way of having a persistent slight
reduction,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  