-- Buffett Firm Says Safe-Nation Bonds Are Way to Grow Poor
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-07-10T18:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/buffett-firm-says-safe-nation-bonds-are-way-to-grow-poor.html
General Re-New England Asset
Management Inc., a unit of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , said sticking with the bonds of the nations perceived to
have the best credit will drain wealth as inflation saps value.  “Sovereign bond yields in putatively safe countries are an
excellent way to grow poor, at accelerating rates over time,”
GR-NEAM Chief Investment Officer John Gilbert wrote in a
 newsletter  on the unit’s website.  Gilbert’s remarks echo comments by Buffett in a February
 letter  to shareholders of Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire that
bonds are “dangerous” assets because low  interest rates  may
not compensate for the risk that purchasing power will be
eroded. Treasury  10-year note  yields fell to a record low of
1.4387 percent on June 1 amid concern Europe’s two-year debt
crisis is worsening and U.S. employment growth is slowing.  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said the U.S. fiscal position is as weak as some euro-area
countries’ and lawmakers must take “dramatic” measures to tackle
it and restore confidence. While the  U.S. economy  is growing,
the pace is “sluggish,” he said in prepared remarks for a
speech in  London  today.  Gilbert said the economy is still suffering from excessive
debt accumulated by U.S. households.  “The most reliable road to deleveraging, then, is rising
GDP including currency debasement if necessary or expedient,”
Gilbert wrote in the document, dated July, 2012. “Central banks
can be expected to play their role.”  Term Premium  By some measures Treasuries are at about the most expensive
levels ever. The term premium, a model created by economists at
the  Federal Reserve , hit a record negative 0.961 percent today.
A reading below zero indicates investors are willing to accept
yields below what’s considered fair value.  The German 10-year  bund  rate dropped to a record low of
1.13 percent on June 1, more than 2 percentage points below its
3.53 percent average of the past decade.  GR-NEAM had $67.7 billion in unaffiliated assets under
management as of March 31, according to its website. The
Farmington, Connecticut-based unit primarily serves insurers.  Buffett has said he prefers investing in companies, either
through takeovers or by buying stock. Berkshire had $89.1
billion in equities at the end of the first quarter, including
the largest  holdings  in Wells Fargo & Co. and Coca Cola Co. That
compares with about $31.7 billion in fixed-maturity securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  