-- California Ski Town Aiming to Rival Vail Faces Upheaval
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-07-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/california-ski-town-aiming-to-rival-vail-faces-upheaval.html
When an earthquake jolted Mammoth
Lakes, California, in 1980, it caused $1.5 million in  damage  and
kindled fears of volcanic eruption that scared off visitors to
what’s now the third-most-popular U.S. ski resort.  That pales in comparison with the latest troubles facing
the High Sierra mountain town of 8,200. The second-lowest
snowfall in 20 years kept tourists away in the 2011-2012 season.
 Home prices  are down one-quarter from their peak and a $43
million breach-of-contract  judgment  threatens to wipe the
municipal government off the map.  Mammoth Lakes, about 250 miles (400 kilometers) north of
 Los Angeles , was the second California municipality to seek
 bankruptcy protection  in as many weeks. It followed Stockton,
which was battered by rising employee costs and falling property
values. While Mammoth Lakes’s circumstances are different, the
move into court may encourage other struggling municipalities to
take the same step, said Lisa Greer Quateman, a Los Angeles
lawyer.  “What we’re seeing here is another domino in the lessening
stigma of municipal bankruptcy,” said Quateman, a specialist in
bankruptcy restructurings at Polsinelli Shughart PC.
“Decisionmakers rely on precedent, and there’s very little
precedent for something like this.”  Mammoth Lakes, at an elevation of about 7,900 feet (2,400
meters) and surrounded by mountains rising to as much as 11,000
feet, owes its livelihood to  Mammoth Mountain Ski Area . As
recently as 2005, when the resort was sold for $365 million to a
buyout group led by  Barry Sternlicht , the founder of  Starwood
Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , real-estate investors were
bidding on area properties sight-unseen in hopes the region
might one day rival Vail or Aspen, the Colorado ski meccas.  Developer Lawsuit  Mammoth Lakes’ resort-town economy sets it apart from
Stockton, a city of 292,000, as well as from Vallejo, the city
on  San Francisco Bay  that emerged from court supervision in
2011. What else distinguishes the town is the cause of its
bankruptcy, a $43 million judgment from a  lawsuit  brought by a
developer in 2006.  Mammoth Lakes Land Acquisition LLC accused the municipality
of reneging on an agreement giving it the rights to build a
hotel and condominiums near Mammoth Yosemite Airport. The
judgment, upheld on appeal, is more than twice the town’s $19
million general-fund spending for the year that began July 1.
It’s the second time a  California  community has sought
bankruptcy because of a legal decision it couldn’t afford, after
Desert Hot Springs in 2001.  Installment Payments  Mammoth Land has proposed that the town pay $2.7 million a
year for 30 years, according to the developer’s lawyer, Daniel L. Brockett, a partner at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP
in  New York . The town, whose offices are in a shopping center
that houses the community’s only grocery store, can’t afford
more than $500,000 a year without decimating services such as
police and snow removal, Assistant Manager Marianna Marysheva- Martinez said in an interview.  With tourism at its heart, the day after filing for Chapter
9 protection in a federal  bankruptcy court  in  Sacramento ,
Mammoth Lakes went ahead with its annual Fourth of July
fireworks show at a cost to the town of $25,000. The event drew
hundreds of visitors such as  Roger Noll , a professor emeritus of
economics at  Stanford University , who has split his time between
 Palo Alto  and Mammoth Lakes since 1976.  “You’re here at probably the worst time” since the
volcano scare, Noll told a reporter. “This is the pits.”  Town officials made a deal in 1997 with developer Terrence
Ballas to expand and modernize the airport and build a hotel,
gas station, restaurant, condominiums and a recreational vehicle
park. After the deal was stalled by an environmental lawsuit,
the town backed out in 2004 when the  Federal Aviation
Administration , which was financing airport improvements, said
the development plan was incompatible, said Charles Long, who
was the interim town manager at the time.  Jury Award  Mammoth Lakes Land Acquisition sued and won a judgment for
$30 million. The developers’ lawyer, Brockett, said the project
would have prospered if it had gone ahead. He said the jury
award was based on projected earnings of $185 million. The
judgment grew to $43 million as the town exhausted its appeals.  Mammoth Lakes  closed  a $2.8 million budget gap this year,
in part by cutting employee pay more than 10 percent. The town
has trimmed its workforce to 70 from 130 since 2007, and it must
eliminate a police officer’s job this month to save money, Town
Manager Dave Wilbrecht said. Paying Mammoth Land $2.7 million a
year isn’t feasible, he said.  The median home-sale price between June 4, 2011, and July
4, 2012, was $560,000, down 24 percent from the same period in
2004-2005, according to calculations by Coldwell Banker Mammoth
Real Estate agent Donna Lisa Knowles, using a sales database.  Hotel Tax  As property values fell, Mammoth Lakes became dependent on
hotel taxes for 61 percent of its general-fund  revenue , the
highest percentage in California. Below-average snowfall this
season and a tighter economy depressed visits to the resort,
lowering projected hotel taxes to $9.6 million for the year that
began in July, from $10.7 million in the year that ended June
2008, according to town budget documents and Marysheva-Martinez.  Mammoth Mountain, the third-most-visited U.S. ski resort
behind Vail and Breckenridge, in  Colorado , had 950,000 skier
visits in the past ski season, down from an average of 1.3
million, said Joani Lynch, a resort spokeswoman.  The resort, owned by Mammoth Mountain Ski Area LLC, doesn’t
expect any effect from the town’s bankruptcy, Lynch said by e-
mail. Nor will it affect Noll’s decision to keep his condo near
the center of town, he said as the fireworks were about to
begin.  “I’m not here for investment purposes,” Noll said. “I’m
here for -- look around. This is one of the best places on the
planet to be. Look at it. It’s gorgeous.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Mammoth Lakes, California at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  