-- Cameron Retreat May Leave Rebel Conservatives Wanting More
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-07-11T12:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/cameron-retreat-may-leave-rebellious-u-k-lawmakers-wanting-more.html
British Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s retreat over his proposed House of Lords overhaul may
embolden rebellious members of his  Conservative Party .  Cameron’s decision yesterday hours before a vote he was set
to lose followed reversals on at least four tax measures in
recent months. The move points to doubts about his leadership
and anger in his Conservative Party over sharing power with the
Liberal Democrats, said  Philip Cowley , professor of politics at
Nottingham University and an expert on voting tactics.  “They’re mutinous, and astonishingly mutinous for a party
that’s only two years into government,” Cowley said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “Cameron’s relations both with
his own party and the Liberal Democrats are appalling.”  The setback for Cameron came on a procedural measure when
the government dropped a motion to fast-track the Lords Reform
Bill through Parliament. Seventy of the Conservatives’ 305
lawmakers had signed a letter saying they’d vote against it. The
bill may now fall victim to filibusters, with other legislation
held up behind it.  The bill, which would introduce elections to the upper
house, passed its first Parliamentary hurdle last night only
with the support of the opposition  Labour Party . Ninety-one
Conservative lawmakers voted against it, the biggest rebellion
since the coalition government came to power in May 2010.  The next largest rebellion came in October last year, when
81 lawmakers defied the leadership to demand a referendum on
Britain’s membership of the European Union. Last night’s revolt
was the largest of any at the second reading stage since 1945.  Similar Fate  Without the so-called program motion, the Lords bill faces
a similar fate to an earlier attempt the alter structure of the
unelected chamber. That effort, introduced by Labour Prime
Minister Harold Wilson in 1968, was abandoned in 1969. After 80
hours of debate and a series of all-night sittings, lawmakers
didn’t even get halfway through the bill.  The government will return to the idea of a program motion
later in the year, or drop the bill. “It is unlikely we will
want to snarl up legislation on something that is not a
priority,” Cameron’s office said.  Since this year’s budget was presented in March, Cameron
has backed down over plans to tax hot food and caravans, to cap
tax relief on charitable donations, and to increase fuel duties.
Each defeat stokes Tory anger at compromises that he made in
forming a coalition with the Liberal Democrats and frustrated at
their lack of promotion prospects.  “A lot of the government’s problem has been introducing
things that are incredibly badly thought through,”  Justin Fisher , a professor of political science and history at Brunel
University in Uxbridge, near London, said in an interview.
“It’s less a question of being weak and more a question of
starting to look less competent.”  Labour Blamed  Cameron’s allies blamed Labour for their climbdown, saying
the opposition sided with Tory rebels to embarrass the
government.  “For Lords reform to progress, it needs those that support
reform to vote for reform and to vote for that reform to make
progress through this house,” George Young, the Conservative
leader of the House of Commons, told lawmakers. “It is clear
the opposition is not prepared to do that.”  Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field, said the government would
seek to “build the necessary consensus.” Asked what would
happen to the bill now, Field said “there is a majority in the
House of Commons for this reform,” hinting Cameron would seek
to bring Labour lawmakers on board, rather than convincing
rebels in his own party.  Parliament Rebellions  According to Cowley, the pattern for rebellions in previous
Parliaments has been that older lawmakers who’d been passed over
for ministerial posts or fallen out with the party leadership
formed the bulk of early opponents, with new ones joining in
only after a few years. With nearly half of his Parliamentary
party newly elected in 2010, Cameron might have hoped for a few
years of relative peace, he said.  His handicap has been that the coalition has restricted his
use of the tools prime ministers usually have to rally doubters.
He’s agreed that around a fifth of his ministers will be Liberal
Democrats, reducing the slots available to offer to Tories.
Coalition also means that Cameron can’t easily adjust his
program to pacify Tory lawmakers because everything has to be
agreed upon with the Liberal Democrats.  ‘Looking Stupid’  The reversals themselves create a vicious circle. “Rebels
know that if they gather enough support, the government will
back down,” Cowley said. “And people who might support the
government are less willing to do it if they suspect the prime
minister may give in the next day and make them look stupid.”  A posting on Twitter Inc.’s social-networking site last
night from Labour lawmaker Karl Turner claimed he had witnessed
an angry Cameron “finger-pointing and prodding” rebel
Conservative Jesse Norman. Field, asked about the claim,
characterized the encounter as “not angry.”  Labour leader  Ed Miliband  taunted Cameron over the incident
at their weekly questions session in Parliament today. “Last
night he lost control of his party and, not for the first time,
lost his temper as well,” he said. “The redder he gets, the
less he convinces people.”  Defeat on plans to introduce elections to the Lords would
also be a blow to Liberal Democrat Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , who in 2011 lost a referendum to change the voting system
in general elections. He could face voters in 2015 without
having delivered any of the constitutional changes he said he’d
won in the 2010 coalition negotiations.  Pressure on Cameron  “We have delivered every element of the coalition
agreement, we have got people through the lobbies,”  Simon Hughes , deputy leader of the Liberal Democrats, told BBC Radio 4
today. “The prime minister needs to work out how he can deliver
his side of the coalition agreement.”  Clegg’s former director of strategy said last week that
Liberal Democrat lawmakers may oppose parliamentary boundary
changes that might help the Conservatives at the 2015 general
election if the Tories block the Lords bill. Hughes suggested
his party may block other bills that Tories want passed.  Speaking to broadcasters in London today, Clegg indicated
he expects Cameron to bring rebel lawmakers into line to fulfill
the commitment to Lords reform made in the coalition formation
talks in 2010.  “A deal’s a deal and it’s important you stick to that deal
and you stick to the contract, if you like, that you have
entered into,” he said.“That’s why I think it is important --
not least because so far both parties have stuck to that deal
very effectively -- that we continue to do so. That’s why it is
important that we deliver House of Lords reform, because it’s a
clear commitment in the coalition agreement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  