-- Cameron, Facing Tory Rebellion, Backs Down Over Lords Vote
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-07-10T22:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/cameron-facing-tory-rebellion-backs-down-over-lords-bill-vote.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron 
abandoned a bid to drive through legislation to overhaul the
House of Lords after Conservative lawmakers threatened to rebel,
throwing relations with his coalition partners into jeopardy.  Dozens of Conservative lawmakers, along with the opposition
 Labour Party , had said they’d vote against a motion designed to
limit the time the House of Commons can spend debating the bill.
It meant Cameron was facing his first parliamentary defeat.  A separate vote to approve the main principles of the bill
was passed by 462 votes to 124 tonight, only thanks to Labour
support. Ninety-one Tories defied the government and voted
against the bill, according to Politicshome.com. That’s the
biggest rebellion since the coalition took office in May 2010.  “It’s very sensible,”  Philip Cowley , professor of
politics at Nottingham University, said of the decision to ditch
the program motion. “They weren’t going to win and being
defeated would have been a much bigger story. They can still try
a program motion later in the bill’s progress, perhaps after a
couple of all-night sittings on it, so people can see what
that’s like.”  The retreat is a blow to Cameron’s authority and may stoke
tensions with his Liberal Democrat partners, for whom the
introduction of a largely elected upper chamber is a priority. A
former aide to Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  has said Liberal
Democrat lawmakers may oppose parliamentary boundary changes
that might help the Conservatives at the 2015 election if the
Tories block the Lords bill.  The move also raised the possibility that opponents of
change may try to block the legislation by dragging out debate
until time runs out.  More Time  Announcing the decision to drop the motion, the
Conservative leader of the House of Commons, George Young,
blamed Labour for siding with Tory rebels.  “We have listened carefully to the debate so far,” Young
told lawmakers. “For Lords reform to progress, it needs those
that support reform to vote for reform and to vote for that
reform to make progress through this house. It is clear the
opposition is not prepared to do that so we will not move the
program motion tonight.”  Young said the government would seek to table another
timetable motion when the House of Commons returns from its
summer vacation in October, giving it time to convince
opponents.  “We have waited for Lords reform for over 100 years, we
can wait for a couple more months,” Clegg’s office said. “The
most important thing is that we win the vote.”  ‘Radical Government’  Asked today if the vote posed a risk to the survival of the
coalition, Cameron said, “we have been and will continue to be
a very radical government.” He was speaking at a press
conference in  London .  The House of Lords Reform Bill begins its passage through
Parliament today. The proposal involves replacing the current
816-member chamber, made up of political appointees, hereditary
nobility and Church of  England  bishops, with a smaller chamber
of mainly elected members serving a single 15-year term. The
bill would reduce the size of the chamber by almost a half.  Speaking in Parliament, Labour lawmaker  Angela Eagle  called
today’s move “a victory for Parliament.”  The retreat came hours after Cameron issued an appeal to
Labour leader  Ed Miliband  not to “play politics” with Lords
reform. Labour says it supports the legislation in principle,
but wants more time to scrutinize it. Conservative opponents say
an elected second chamber will challenge the primacy of the
Commons, the lower house.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net 
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  