-- Campbell Buyout Shows Most Deals in Four Years: Retail
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-07-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/campbell-buyout-shows-most-deals-in-four-years-retail.html
Food makers are snapping up smaller
rivals at the fastest pace in four years to buy time until
consumers start spending again.  Campbell Soup Co.’s (CPB)  purchase of Bolthouse Farms for $1.55
billion announced yesterday highlights a bright spot in an
otherwise slow year for acquisitions. Fueled by record-low
borrowing rates, food companies this year are on pace for the
most takeovers since the recession even as overall deal volume
tumbles.  Several years of aggressive cost-cutting in the face of
sluggish revenue growth have left foodmakers with little more to
pare. Companies are instead using their stockpiles of cash to
buy growth and the chance for new operational savings.  “The top line is not moving and the only needle these
companies can move is cost, and that needle is tapped out,”
 Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based special-situations
strategist for Tullett Prebon Plc, said in an interview. “You
have to spend to get cost synergies. They need  cash flow .”  There have been 116 pending or completed takeovers of
diversified food companies announced around the world this year
through yesterday, with a total value of $15.8 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the most at this
point in the year since 2008, when there were 130 announced
deals valued at $5.46 billion. At this time last year, there had
been 88 announced deals worth about $13.3 billion.  The broader deal market has been slower, with about 13,550
takeovers valued about $1.02 trillion in all industries
announced this year through yesterday, compared with 14,624
valued at $1.31 trillion a year earlier.  Consumer Deals  The purchase of Bolthouse from Chicago-based private-equity
firm Madison Dearborn Partners LLC is the second-largest
consumer-focused takeover of a diversified food company this
year after  Kellogg Co. (K) ’s $2.7 billion purchase of the Pringles
potato chip brand from  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , announced in May.  The increase in food deals is coming mostly from companies
with specific strategic goals, said  Andrew Ross , chief strategy
officer for  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  Buyers have been looking for
acquisitions to fill holes, rather than mega-deals, he said.  “Deals are on the uptick because everyone is looking for
growth,” Ross said. “But everyone is being disciplined about
it. No one wants to make a mistake in this environment.”  ConAgra Takeovers  ConAgra, based in Omaha,  Nebraska , bought Pita Chips from
Milwaukee-based Kangaroo Brands Inc. in May, to get into the
growing pita sector. While Pita Chips has only about $20 million
in annual revenue, ConAgra expects the company can boost the
business more than the prior owner, Ross said.  ConAgra, which sells Orville Redenbacher’s popcorn and
Healthy Choice frozen meals, saw an opportunity in April to add
to its frozen-food business with Odom’s Tennessee Pride, a
producer of frozen breakfast meals with more than $190 million a
year in sales. The acquisition adds new products to ConAgra’s
existing frozen food business, Ross said.  Food companies have struggled to increase growth in the
U.S., where the economy expanded 2 percent in the year through
March and the unemployment  rate  has remained higher than 8
percent for more than three years.  “Companies have picked the low-hanging fruit as it relates
to cost-cutting and growth,” said David Garfield, managing
director of the North American consumer-products practice at
consulting firm AlixPartners in  Chicago . “One of the few things
left is to expand the portfolio or find some synergies in an
acquisition.”  Campbell Beverages  Buying Bolthouse will strengthen Campbell’s U.S. beverage
division, which makes the V8 brand of juice and accounted for
about 10 percent of sales in the year ended July 31. That unit
was Camden, New Jersey-based Campbell’s fastest-growing last
quarter, generating $208 million in revenue, while sales in its
soup unit have slowed.  Bolthouse, which employs about 2,100 people, sells fresh
carrots, beverages and salad dressings as well as private-label
products. The Bakersfield, California-based company had $689
million in sales and earnings before interest and taxes of about
$79 million last year.  Campbell’s U.S. beverage  business  boosted sales 2 percent
to $593 million in the nine months ended April 29. Sales in its
U.S. Simple Meals business, which includes soup, declined 2
percent to about $2.3 billion in the same period.  Shelf Placement  The deal also gives Campbell better shelf placement in
grocery stores, Garfield said in a phone interview. Campbell
generally sells soups and beverages in the center of the store,
where meal staples are displayed. Bolthouse Farms has talked
grocers into selling its juices in produce aisles, alongside
fresh vegetables, which could give Campbell a better chance to
move around.  “In addition to diversifying the product portfolio, the
acquisition gives Campbell a direct conduit to the produce aisle
and the connotation of selling fresh and healthy products that
goes with it,” he said.  Campbell said it is financing the purchase with a
combination of short- and long-term debt. The company is picking
the right time to tap credit markets.  Investment-grade corporate bond yields in the U.S. fell to
a record low yesterday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. Yields declined to 3.233 percent, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Master index. That’s the
lowest level in data extending back to 1986.  Campbell’s  debt  is rated A2 by Moody’s Investors Service
and A- at  Standard & Poor’s , near the middle of both firms’
investment-grade ratings. The company had about $2.01 billion of
long-term  borrowings  at the end of April, down about 17 percent
from a year earlier.  With German bond yields negative and U.S. Treasury yields
near record lows, stable corporations can easily find investors
for their bonds even at low yields, Shah said. Investors like
the stability of debt issued by companies such as Campbell that
have staying power.  “There is a significant hunger for yield,” Shah said.
“And food companies have a lot of cash they haven’t deployed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  