-- Camp Says Health-Care Ruling Opens New World for Taxes
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-07-10T15:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/camp-says-health-care-ruling-opens-new-world-for-taxes.html
The U.S. Supreme Court decision
upholding the 2010 health-care law’s individual insurance
mandate as a tax opens a “brave new world” for Congress to
impose levies, said Representative  Dave Camp , chairman of the
House Ways and Means Committee.  Congress must consider the implications of allowing a tax
on “inactivity,” such as the penalty for not having health
insurance, Camp, a  Michigan  Republican, said at a hearing today
in Washington.  “Under that premise, what is there to stop future
Congresses from using this taxing authority to compel a similar
‘it’s for the good of the country’ outcome?” he said. “If one
refuses to purchase the goods and services the government thinks
are best for the country, the act of not purchasing can now
trigger a tax.”  The court’s 5-4 ruling on June 28 upheld the requirement
that most individuals obtain health insurance, passed by
Congress as part of the health-care overhaul. It will apply
starting in 2014.  Representative  Sander Levin , the top Democrat on the Ways
and Means panel, linked the individual mandate to a similar
provision in the Massachusetts health-care law implemented when
 Mitt Romney , the Republican presidential candidate, was governor
of the state.  “Obamacare is Romneycare,” said Levin of Michigan.  1.4 Percent  Levin noted that about only 1.4 percent of the population
will face the tax, which will be levied at a maximum of 2.5
percent of income.  Congress limited the  Internal Revenue Service ’s ability to
collect the tax associated with the insurance mandate, barring
the agency from using liens and criminal enforcement tools.
Instead, the IRS’s main avenue for collection will be reducing
taxpayers’ refunds.  Witnesses before the panel disagreed on the implications of
the court’s ruling and what it empowers Congress to do.  “The  Supreme Court  has fashioned a breathtaking new power
for Congress,” said Lee Casey, a partner at Baker & Hostetler
LLP in Washington.  Under this precedent, Congress may impose taxes on people
who don’t use motorcycle helmets, own guns or refuse to buy
solar panels, said Carrie Severino, chief counsel and policy
director of the Judicial Crisis Network, an advocacy group that
supports limited government.  Walter Dellinger, a former U.S. solicitor general, said he
thought the court’s decision was an “unremarkable” expression
of Congress’ broad taxing power. Any other decision, he said,
would have serious implications for self-government through
elected representatives.  “It operates no differently than the tax incentives in the
law” for education and home mortgages, he said.  The Ways and Means Committee has jurisdiction over tax
legislation, which must originate in the U.S. House.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  