-- Canada Studying Private Firms for Prisons as Budgets Fall
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-07-10T19:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/canada-studying-private-firms-for-prisons-as-budgets-fall.html
Canada  is studying the use of
private companies to deliver some prison services as it cuts
spending and imposes tougher sentences on criminals, which may
benefit companies like  GEO Group Inc. (GEO)   Correctional Service Canada, which oversees federal
prisons, “may consider” partnerships with private firms to
provide “basic institutional services such as cleaning and food
preparation,” says a memo prepared for Public Safety Minister
Vic Toews in advance of a May 14 meeting with Crispin Blunt,
U.K. Minister of State for Prisons in  London .  Officials in the department urged Toews to discuss Canada’s
“interest in considering the privatization of penitentiary
services on a limited basis,” according to the memo obtained by
Bloomberg News under Canada’s freedom-of-information law.  Public Safety officials were lobbied by the GEO Group as
the government was preparing  legislation  to introduce or
lengthen mandatory sentences for some types of crime. The annual
budget of Correctional Service Canada, which reports to Toews,
will fall to C$2.86 billion ($2.81 billion) by the year
beginning April 2014 from C$3.03 billion in the current fiscal
year, according to agency planning documents.  The new law will “invariably lead to more people behind
bars serving longer sentences,” compounding capacity challenges
federal prisons already face, Canada’s Correctional Investigator
Howard Sapers  told  a parliamentary committee in November.  ‘No Appetite’  “We have no appetite to pursue fully privatised prisons,”
said Julie Carmichael, a spokeswoman for Toews. The government
“has no intention of building new prisons, nor have we built a
single new prison to date,” she said in an e-mail.  Conservative Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has  pledged  to
eliminate the federal deficit by the year starting April 2015,
partly by reducing annual program spending by C$5.2 billion.
Toews said April 19 the government would save C$120 million per
year by closing two federal prisons, including the maximum-
security Kingston Penitentiary in Ontario.  “From unjustified closures to opening the door to
privatisation, the Conservatives’ approach to correctional
services is plagued by mismanagement,” said Rosane Dore
Lefebvre, a New Democrat lawmaker and deputy spokeswoman for
public safety issues, in an e-mailed statement.  Growing Revenue  GEO Group’s  revenue  has almost tripled over the last decade
to $1.66 billion last year as it expanded the number of
facilities it owns or manages. The  Boca Raton , Florida-based
company’s  stock  has surged 39 percent this year even though
Florida’s Senate rejected in February a plan to expand the
state’s private-prison system. The shares fell 0.7 percent to
$23.05 at 3:01 p.m. in  New York  after earlier rising as much as
1 percent.  Government lobbying records and documents released under
the Access to Information Act show Toews was  lobbied  by a
consultant representing GEO Group in October, and company
officials met two senior Public Safety officials in August to
promote GEO Group’s services.  GEO Group representatives met in August with Mary Campbell,
director general of corrections and criminal justice at Public
Safety, and Heather De Santis, director for  North America  in the
department’s international affairs directorate.  International Operations  GEO Group chief executive officer George Zoley was
scheduled to attend the meeting, according to e-mails released
under the Access to Information Act. A spokesman for the
company, Pablo Paez, declined to confirm if Zoley attended.
“Our international services division regularly meets with
officials from countries around the world in different forums,”
he said in an e-mail.  GEO Group “is not currently pursuing any new business
opportunities in Canada,” Paez said.  Patrick Gagnon , managing partner with the lobbying firm The
Parliamentary Group, said he was hired by GEO Group and
approached the government to inform officials of the company’s
operations in Australia and the U.K.  Gagnon also  lobbied  John McBride, the chief executive
officer of Public-Private Partnerships Canada, in June 2011,
according to lobbying records.  PPP Canada  is a federal agency
that manages a C$1.2 billion fund that invests in public
infrastructure projects involving the private sector.  The meeting was “for information purposes only,” Lisa
Mitchell, PPP Canada’s director of strategy and policy, said in
an e-mail. “Any federal prison procurement would be the
responsibility of Correctional Service Canada,” she said.  Private Facilities  If Canada turned to the private sector, it would follow
countries such as the U.S., U.K. and  Australia  that have
relatively larger prison populations.  There are 209 prison facilities managed by private
companies worldwide, with 181 in the U.S., according to  data 
from the Association of Private Correctional and Treatment
Organizations. There were 44 privately-run facilities in the
U.S. in the late 1980s, according to research by  Management and
Training Corporation , a closely held company that manages
prisons.  Public Safety officials recommended Toews ask Blunt about
lessons the British government learned in hiring companies to
manage prisons, according to the memo. Companies manage 16
prison facilities in the U.K., according to APCTO.  While the performance of contractors in the U.S. has been
“a mixed bag,” using private companies to provide prison
services has the potential to save money, said  Curt T.
Griffiths , a criminology professor at Simon Fraser University in
British Columbia who has studied the Canadian corrections
system.  Program Types  The results will depend on whether employees are unionized
and what kind of rehabilitation programs the contractor
delivers, Griffiths said in a phone interview. The business case
may be stronger in provincial prisons, where inmates tend to
serve shorter sentences than in federal institutions, he said.  A number of publicly traded companies own and manage
prisons, including Geo Group,  Corrections Corporation of
America ,  G4S Plc (GFS)  and  Serco Group Plc. (SRP)   GEO Group provides cleaning and maintenance at a detention
center for youth in Miramichi,  New Brunswick , run by the
provincial government. It is the only facility in Canada to have
a contract with a private operator, according to APCTO.  Private jails have generated controversy because of unease
with “punishment for profit” and questions about the
accountability of companies that run prisons, Griffiths said.
“Proponents of privatization say ‘Look, you’ve got a much
better chance holding the institution and its staff accountable
than you do under a public system.’ If they don’t meet the
contracted standard, well, you don’t renew their contract.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  