-- Canadian Dollar Drops on Oil Drop, Concern Earnings Will Weaken
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-07-10T21:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/canadian-currency-appreciates-as-growth-concern-stymies-euro.html
Canada ’s dollar dropped as investors
sought the safety of its U.S. counterpart on concern corporate
earnings will trail median forecasts, hampering risk appetite.  The currency fell to the lowest this month versus the
greenback and depreciated against a majority of its most-traded
counterparts as U.S. stocks fell for a fifth day and crude oil,
Canada’s biggest export, fell below $84 a barrel.  “Traders don’t have much to hang their bullish bets on
these days,” said Philippe Denolf, a currency trader in
 Montreal  at  Laurentian Bank  of Canada. “We have a possibly
disappointing earnings season kicking off this week. We’ve been
seeing good  U.S. dollar  buying across the board.”  Canada’s currency dropped 0.3 percent to C$1.0226 per U.S.
dollar at 5:03 p.m. in Toronto, the lowest level since June 29.
One Canadian dollar buys 97.79 U.S. cents.  Concern about the outlook for corporate profits helped the
market reverse earlier gains. Profits for S&P 500 companies fell
1.8 percent in the second quarter, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That would be the first decline
since 2009, even as sales are projected to grow 2.5 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.8 percent after
gaining as much as 0.7 percent.  Euro Move  The currency rose to almost a two-year high versus the euro
as an agreement by European leaders to aid Spanish banks failed
to allay concern the debt crisis is eroding growth.  The loonie advanced 0.2 percent to C$1.2526 per euro, close
to the C$1.2466 it reached yesterday, which was the highest
since June 2010 and close to a record high.  “The market is record short euros,”  Dean Popplewell , an
analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading firm Oanda
Corp., said in a phone interview. “The one-week goal is to
trade in the early $1.21 per euro handle. If that’s successful,
that should be able to drag dollar-Canada quite a bit higher,
and much quicker than we think.” A short position is a bet that
an asset will decline in value.  Popplewell predicted the Canadian currency may depreciate
to C$1.05 against the greenback in the shorter-term. Denolf said
he sees the loonie at C$1.0335 as soon as this week. The median
forecast of 43 economists and analysts in a Bloomberg survey
predicts the loonie will weaken to C$1.03 by the end of
September.  Oil Trend  Canada’s currency has declined 2.3 percent since the end of
March against the greenback as futures on crude oil, Canada’s
biggest export, have plunged 18 percent in that period on
speculation  Europe ’s debt crisis will weaken global growth,
hampering demand for  raw materials .  Crude oil futures declined 2.5 percent to $83.65 a barrel
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Prices have decreased 15
percent this year.  The loonie is becoming more governed by fluctuations in
crude prices, correlation studies show. The 30-day correlation
coefficient between the Canadian dollar and crude-oil futures
rose to 0.88 today, close to the 0.89 level the relationship
reached on June 29, the highest level in Bloomberg records
dating to May 1993, from 0.30 in February.  “In the short term, there’s still a bit more downside room
for the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar, but I’m looking
to buy dips,”  Steve Butler , managing director in Toronto at
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , said by e-mail. “There’s still too much
risk out there, whether it’s from a slowdown in  China , European
debt or a failure of the  U.S. economy  to ever turn the corner.”  Economic Data  Housing starts were 222,700 at a seasonally adjusted annual
pace in June, up from a revised 217,400 rate in May, Canada
Mortgage & Housing Corp. said on its website. Economists
forecast a reading of 205,000, according to the median of 21
responses to a Bloomberg News survey.  Changes in Canada’s mortgage rules, implemented by Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  to avert a housing bubble, are threatening
to end a six-year streak of U.S.-beating economic expansion. The
changes, which took effect yesterday, include shortening the
maximum length of government-insured mortgages to 25 years from
30 years to quell demand for new homes and curb record household
borrowing that Flaherty said has become a greater risk to the
economy than slowing growth.  The rule changes make it harder for some buyers to qualify
for mortgages. Ebbing demand for homes removes one more driver
from the world’s 10th largest economy, said  Douglas Porter ,
deputy chief economist at  Bank of Montreal. (BMO)  Residential
construction was the fastest expanding segment in the first
quarter, responsible for almost half of Canada’s 1.9 percent
growth as consumer and government spending slowed.  Economic Growth  Canada’s economy is projected to grow by 2.1 percent this
year, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg, down from a
pace of 2.4 percent in 2011 and 3.2 percent in 2010. U.S. growth
will accelerate to 2.2 percent from 1.7 percent last year,
economists project, marking the first time since 2005 Canada has
lagged its biggest trading partner. Canada’s average growth of
0.9 percent since 2008 topped the Group of Seven.  Shorter-term  government bonds  declined for the first time
in five days, pushing the yield on the benchmark two-year bond
higher by one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 0.97
percent, or 70 basis points more than U.S. yields.  The price of the 2.25 percent Canadian security maturing in
August 2014 fell one cent to C$102.62.  Barry Allan , who oversees C$6 billion ($5.9 billion) at
Marret Asset Management Inc., is reducing his Canadian holdings
to buy U.S. corporate debt because he says American companies
are more creditworthy than the U.S. government.  Bond Reading  Corporate bonds are entering an “unprecedented” era where
their yields will fall below those of Treasury bonds as the U.S.
slips into recession, Allan said in an interview yesterday in
Toronto, where he manages hedge and bond funds. As the debt
crisis in Europe recedes, U.S. government-bond prices will
collapse as elected officials resist resolving the unsustainable
$1 trillion deficit, Allan said. Top-rated U.S. companies will
prove the best performers and Canadian corporate bonds will
suffer for lack of liquidity, he said.  The loonie has gained 1.7 percent this year among 10
developed-nation currencies in Bloomberg Correlation Weighted
Indexes, with the U.S. dollar adding 1.9 percent. The leading
decliner is the euro, dropping 4.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax,  Nova Scotia , at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  