-- Cement Co. Falls Most in 2 Months on Profit Drop: Lagos Mover
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2012-07-10T13:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/cement-co-falls-most-in-2-months-on-profit-drop-lagos-mover.html
Cement Co. of Northern Nigeria Plc ,
a producer of the building material, headed for its biggest
decline in more than two months after reporting a 48 percent
drop in first-quarter profit.  The stock fell the daily limit of 5 percent to 5.70 naira
as of 1:55 p.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital, set for the
biggest one-day loss since April 25.  Net income for the three months through March retreated to
268 million naira ($1.7 million) from 511.4 million naira a year
earlier, the Sokoto, northern Nigeria-based company said in an
e-mailed statement today, without giving any reason for the
change. Revenue was little changed at 3.1 billion naira.  “A 48 percent fall in first-quarter profit is very serious
and that is why the stock has fallen,” Raheem Mohammed, chief
operating officer at Kundila Finance Ltd., a Lagos-based
brokerage, said by phone today. “Cement is still in demand now,
so it’s not as if supply is more than demand.”  Demand for cement in  Nigeria  is usually highest during the
dry season, which lasts from about October through to April.  The company’s location in the north of the country, where
Islamic sect Boko Haram is fighting to impose Sharia rule, could
have contributed to its profit decline, David Adonri, chief
executive officer of Lambeth Trust and Investment Co. said.  “With the insecurity there that is affecting commercial
activities, its distribution operations must have been
disrupted,” he said.  Cement Co. of Nigeria shares have gained 31 percent this
year, compared with a 6.7 percent advance in the Nigerian Stock
Exchange All-Share Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  