-- CFTC Approves Swap Definition Triggering Dodd-Frank Rules
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-07-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/cftc-votes-4-1-to-approve-swap-definition-starting-overhaul-1-.html
A definition of swaps required by
the Dodd-Frank Act and approved by U.S. regulators will bring
government scrutiny to a $648 trillion global market that has
been largely unchecked since it emerged three decades ago.  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  and
Securities Exchange Commission, the agencies charged with
overhauling financial regulation following the 2008 credit
crisis, laid out for the first time when interest-rate, credit,
commodity and other derivatives will be considered swaps. The
designation approved yesterday activates rules to increase
collateral requirements and bolster public trading of the
products by companies such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Cargill Inc.  “This is significant to the American public because now we
will bring transparency to these markets,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said yesterday in a Bloomberg Television interview after
the commission met in  Washington . “We will have dealers
registering. We will lower the risk to the American public.
Congress said further define a term. We further defined it. Two
months from now a lot of Dodd-Frank comes into being.”  The swap definition will trigger almost 20 Dodd-Frank
measures for reporting, clearing, trading and record-keeping
that may take effect as early as September. The CFTC voted 4-1
to complete the roughly 600-page document after the SEC voted
unanimously in a private process on July 6.  The swap definition contains exemptions for insurance and
retail transactions.  Life insurance , and property and casualty
insurance are exempt. Interest-rate caps on consumer mortgages
and home heating oil agreements are also left out.  Forwards Exempted  The CFTC will also allow exemption of forwards tied to non-
financial commodities. The agency is seeking comment on
exempting energy contracts with so-called volumetric
optionality.  “In order to meet varying customer demands, natural gas
and electricity suppliers frequently enter into commercial
transactions with embedded optionality as to the volume of
energy that is physically delivered,”  Scott O’Malia , a
Republican commissioner, said at yesterday’s meeting. Mark Wetjen, a Democratic commissioner, supported seeking comment on
the exemption.  The Working Group of Commercial Energy Firms, a lobbying
organization represented by law firm Hunton & Williams LLP,
urged the CFTC to exempt the contracts. Executives at firms
including  ConocoPhillips (COP)  have testified for the group.  “They provide commercial energy firms with the flexibility
necessary to reliably acquire and deliver physical commodities
necessary to meet the specific requirements of buyers and
sellers of the commodities,” the group said in a letter to the
CFTC in July 2011.  Embedding Options  Bart Chilton, a Democratic commissioner who opposed the
measure, said he’s concerned that the financial industry will
create forwards that embed options in a way that would skirt
Dodd-Frank.  “I’m a little concerned that if you go back to the
financial crisis, complexity in financial products is really
what got us,” Chilton said at the meeting. “I’m a little
concerned that these good forwards, these forwards used for
legitimate purposes, are going to morph, kind of chimerical.”  Chilton, in a Bloomberg Television interview, said law
firms have developed a “cottage industry” to get around Dodd-
Frank rules. “The lawyers are overt: ‘Come to us, Lawyers ’R
Us.’ ”  Foreign Exchange  The swap definition includes non-deliverable foreign-
exchange forwards and currency swaps, while Dodd-Frank allowed
the Treasury Department to exempt foreign-exchange swaps and
forwards from clearing and trading requirements. Treasury
proposed an exemption for those two products last year and has
yet to complete the exception. A coalition of 20 firms,
including Deutsche Bank AG,  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  and
 UBS AG (UBSN) , asked Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  to grant an
exemption.  Steven D. Lofchie, a New York-based partner and co-chairman
of the financial-services department at Cadwalader Wickersham &
Taft LLP, said the definition will cover more types of trades
than intended. “For many contracts nobody would have thought of
as swaps, they’ll fit in the technical definition,” he said in
a telephone interview. “They will capture at least 300 or 400
percent of what was intended.”  Registration, Reporting  Within two months of the definition’s publication, swap
dealers and so-called major swap participants must register; the
CFTC estimates that 125 companies will be required to do so.
JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs,  Bank of America  Corp.,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  controlled 96 percent of cash and derivatives
trading for U.S. bank holding companies as of March 31,
according to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  Regulations governing conduct standards between banks and
swap buyers, internal standards for chief compliance officers
and registration for swap-data repositories are also pegged to
the final definition vote. Rules for agricultural swaps and
commodity options also rely on the swap definition. Data on
interest-rate and credit swaps must be reported to the public
starting within two months of the swap definition.  Limits mandated by Dodd-Frank on speculation in oil,
natural gas, wheat and other commodities will also begin to take
effect two months after publication of the definition. The so-
called position limits, facing a court challenge by Wall Street
trade associations, will start to take effect on contracts in
the current, or spot, month.  Clearinghouse Exemption  The CFTC also voted 5-0 to exempt some companies from the
law’s requirement to guarantee swaps at central clearinghouses.
Commercial and manufacturing companies that use swaps to hedge
or mitigate their business risks lobbied for the so-called end-
user exception. The CFTC estimated that about 30,000 entities
might take advantage of the exception.  The final rule will also allow banks with $10 billion or
less in assets to be considered end-users. The CFTC also voted
5-0 to propose a separate exemption for about 10 farm-credit
associations,  credit unions  and rural electric cooperatives that
may fall above the $10 billion threshold.  “Those cooperatives act in the financial markets on behalf
of their members and enter into swaps for the benefit of
members,” the CFTC said in a summary of the proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  