-- Peregrine Fund’s $200 Million Shortfall Raises Scrutiny on CFTC
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-07-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/cftc-faces-scrutiny-after-200-million-peregrine-fund-shortfall.html
The main U.S. futures regulator is
facing renewed scrutiny after suing Peregrine Financial Group
Inc. for a customer funds shortfall nine months after  MF Global
Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  collapsed.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission filed a complaint
against Peregrine in federal court in Chicago yesterday after an
industry-run regulator cited a $200 million shortfall in
customer segregated funds. The  National Futures Association  said
the brokerage’s chairman may have falsified bank records after
only $5 million was found in an account that was reported to
have $225 million on or about June 29.  Peregrine is under investigation over the alleged missing
funds after Russell Wasendorf Sr., the firm’s chairman and chief
executive officer, unsuccessfully attempted suicide. Republicans
who scolded the CFTC over its handling of MF Global cited
similarities to the  New York  brokerage’s failure.  “I would have expected regulators to be particularly
attentive to situations like the one at PFG in the wake of the
MF Global collapse, so I’m disappointed this wasn’t discovered
earlier,” Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican
who is leading an investigation of MF Global’s $1.6 billion
customer-fund shortfall, said in an e-mail yesterday.  The Senate Agriculture Committee, which has jurisdiction
over the CFTC, is holding a July 17 hearing on derivatives
regulations that is scheduled to include testimony from  Gary Gensler , the agency’s chairman. Senator  Debbie Stabenow , the
Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the committee, said it is
imperative that futures market customers know their money is
safe.  Assurances Needed  “We are working closely with regulators to find out what
happened because farmers and small businesses need assurances
that their funds are safe from reckless or criminal activity,”
Stabenow said in a statement yesterday.  Senator  Richard Shelby , the top Republican on the Senate
Banking Committee, said he’s working with Senator  Tim Johnson ,
the South Dakota Democrat who leads the panel, to gather
information on the Peregrine shortfall.  “In the wake of MF Global, this latest failure raises
serious questions about our current regulators and whether they
are capable of doing their jobs,” Shelby said in an e-mail.  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, said the
situation raises questions about the dual oversight of the
industry by self-regulators and the CFTC.  ‘Working Diligently’  “I want to know if the existing set up with the National
Futures Association and the Commodity Futures Trade Association
is working to safeguard this marketplace,” Grassley said in a
statement. “Regulators need to be on the ground working
diligently to sort out what’s going on.”  The CFTC, NFA and  CME Group Inc. (CME)  conducted a review of
futures brokers’ segregated customer funds after MF Global’s
collapse last year. On Jan. 25, the CFTC announced that customer
funds were properly segregated at 70 futures brokers.      The
review was a “snapshot” of the industry’s compliance with
regulations and didn’t involve a “lengthy examination” of the
brokers, according to  a statement  from the CFTC. The review
relied on brokers’ records and didn’t involve regulatory
officials independently confirming balances of customer funds at
other entities. The agency said the review wasn’t intended to
serve as an industry audit.  The CFTC depends on the self-regulatory system involving
NFA and CME in part because it has a small budget of $205
million, Gensler said yesterday.  “I think it’s in the nature of our funding as well that we
rely on the NFA and the CME and others to be the first line of
oversight,” he said.  Fraud Alleged  Peregrine was undergoing an audit, and “as our complaint
lays out, in the midst of that audit we’ve alleged fraud as
happening,” Gensler said.  “We’re going to vigorously pursue actions like this,” he
told reporters after a CFTC meeting in  Washington .  Senator  Pat Roberts , a Kansas Republican, said Gensler
should be prepared to answer lawmakers’ questions over
Peregrine. Roberts cited the CFTC chairman’s decision to recuse
himself from the MF Global investigation because of his prior
relationship at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  with Jon S. Corzine,
who ran MF Global until its filing for bankruptcy on Oct. 31.  “Last time he ’stepped aside’ rather than get involved,”
Roberts said yesterday in an e-mail. “I hope that this time
he’ll step up to the plate and help us get the answers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  