-- Chelsea’s Terry Says He’s the Victim as He Denies Racial Insult
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-07-11T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/chelsea-s-terry-says-he-s-the-victim-as-he-denies-racial-insult.html
Chelsea captain  John Terry  told a
court yesterday that he isn’t a racist and has become a victim
after being accused of racially abusing a rival Premier League
soccer player.  Terry, 31, took the stand to explain why he called Queen’s
Park Rangers defender Anton Ferdinand a ”f---ing black c---”
during a game last year. He testified he used the words only to
repeat something he thought Ferdinand shouted at him.  “When he’s accused me of that, I couldn’t control my
emotions,” Terry said at the criminal trial in London.  The case shook English soccer from the moment footage of
the alleged abuse first surfaced minutes after Chelsea’s 1-0
defeat to QPR on Oct. 23, 2011. Fabio Capello quit as coach of
 England ’s soccer team in February after the Football Association
stripped Terry of the national team captaincy following an
appeal by Chelsea to delay the trial until after the end of the
soccer season.  Prosecutor Duncan Penny took Terry through video footage of
the game at QPR’s Loftus Road. In one clip, Terry came together
with opposition goalkeeper  Paddy Kenny  and was penalized even
though replays showed there was no contact.  Terry made a gesture to mock the goalie’s weight. Penny
said that showed the frame of mind Terry was in when he clashed
with Ferdinand six minutes before the end of play.  ‘You Snapped’  “You’re not a racist but you used racial language that day
because you snapped,” he said.  Terry, wearing a black suit and black tie, said he’d been
called a lot of things in his career but he could never accept
being called a racist.  Terry is accused of a racially-aggravated public order
offense for using threatening, abusive or insulting words or
behavior. If convicted, Terry could be fined as much as 2,500
pounds and may face sanctions from English soccer’s governing
body.  The exchange followed the two players barging into each
other going for the ball, and turned into an argument after
Ferdinand felt Terry had tried to cheat to win a penalty.  The men exchanged profanities and then Ferdinand said he
gestured at Terry, cursed again, and referenced an affair Terry
had with a former teammate’s ex-girlfriend.  “You shagged your teammate’s missus,” Ferdinand recounted
in testimony two days ago. He repeated the phrase at Terry while
making a gesture indicating sex, he said.  Terry denied the suggestion that he reacted to the
reference to the affair. He said he’s faced abuse on a
“weekly” basis from rival fans and players since a judge in
2010 lifted an injunction against reporting details of the
affair.  “It’s two years on, I’ve heard that a hundred times, a
million times,” Terry said. “If I was gonna snap I would’ve
snapped long before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ; Lindsay Fortado in London at 
4806 or  lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  