-- Chelsea Wins Race to Sign Brazil Playmaker Oscar: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-10T07:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/chelsea-wins-race-to-sign-brazil-playmaker-oscar-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Oscar Winners  Chelsea will beat Tottenham Hotspur to sign Brazilian
playmaker Oscar from Internacional for 25 million pounds ($38.7
million), the  Daily Mail reported .  Spurs made an offer of about 18 million pounds last week
for the 20-year-old, who has also been watched by Real Madrid
and Barcelona, the Mail added.  Permanent Move  Emmanuel Adebayor is close to completing a permanent move
to Spurs as  Manchester City  seeks to cut its payroll before
moving for Arsenal’s  Robin van Persie , the  Guardian reported .  Spurs are ready to give Adebayor, who spent last season on
loan at White Hart Lane, a big signing-on fee and a lower salary
to fit him into their pay structure, the Guardian said.  Dzeko Deal  AC Milan is prepared to pay 20 million pounds for Edin Dzeko, who has fallen down the pecking order at Manchester City,
the  Daily Mirror reported .  The teams are said to be in contact about trading the 26-
year-old Bosnian striker, the Mirror added.  United Talks  A Manchester United delegation will arrive in  Brazil  today
to open talks on a 30 million-pound deal to sign Sao Paulo
midfielder Lucas Moura, who is also wanted by  Inter Milan , the
 Mail reported .  United wants to tie up the transfer before Moura, 19, joins
Brazil’s Olympic Games squad, the Mail added.  Dempsey Deadline  Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  is ready to bid 7.5
million pounds to sign Fulham forward  Clint Dempsey  before the
club’s pre-season tour of the U.S., the  Mirror reported .  Rodgers wants to conclude a deal for the U.S. national team
player before Liverpool departs next week and a quick resolution
would also suit Fulham, the newspaper added.  Carvalho Carrot  Real Madrid is ready to offer Portuguese defender  Ricardo Carvalho  as part of any deal for Tottenham playmaker Luka Modric, the  Sun reported . Carvalho, 34, worked with Spurs
manager Andre Villas-Boas at Porto, the newspaper added.  Editor: Alex Duff  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  