-- Chespeake Energy Seeks to Void Order to Buy Energy Rights
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2012-07-10T21:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/chespeake-energy-seeks-to-void-order-to-buy-energy-rights.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , facing
suits by hundreds of mineral rights holders over canceled oil
and gas lease offers, asked appeals judges in  New Orleans  to
reverse a $19.7 million judgment to a Texas lease owner.  U.S. District Judge John Ward in Marshall, Texas, ruled in
2011 that Chesapeake officials wrongfully canceled an agreement
to buy energy rights held by the family-owned Peak Energy Corp.,
based in Plano, Texas. Chesapeake breached a contract and
abandoned the deal as gas prices plummeted, Peak claimed.  Lawyers for Chesapeake, claiming the deal was uncompleted
and the offer nonbinding, asked judges today to reverse the
lower court and rule a letter of intent wasn’t a valid contract.
The letter of intent couldn’t be a completed contract because it
didn’t describe which leases were being sold, Chesapeake lawyer
Jesse Pierce told the appeals court today.  “There is no description whatsoever of what certain oil
and gas leases are to be conveyed,” Pierce said. “They never
figured out what they were selling and what my client was
buying.”  The company is also asking the court to cancel an order
telling it to pay the $12,000-an-acre difference between the
offer price and the lease value when the bid was withdrawn.
Chesapeake argues that Peak didn’t have rights to nearly two-
thirds of the 5,405 acres covered in the agreement.  Peak’s Arguments  “They’re trying to find strained readings of the contract
to make the contract unenforceable,” Peak lawyer W. Scott
Hastings told the appeals court judges. Hastings asked the panel
to uphold the lower court’s judgment.  A map of the property shared by the companies shows “where
all the leases are located,” Hastings said. “This is a clearly
valid property description that needs to be enforced as Judge
Ward correctly did.”  The appeals court reached no decision.  Chesapeake fell $1.29 to $18.69 or 6.5 percent, in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading.  Winning may be an uphill battle for Chesapeake, said
 Anthony Sabino , a law professor at  St. John’s University  in New
York who specializes in complex litigation and oil-and-gas law.  “It’s quite possible that the judge overlooked some sort
of contingency,” he said by phone. “But just as the trial
judge made short shrift of this, I think the Fifth Circuit will
as well. As they like to say in Texas, a deal is a deal.”  Falling Prices, Shares  Chesapeake, the second-largest U.S. gas producer, lost 39
percent of its  market value  in the past year as the effect of
tumbling energy prices was compounded by questions about Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon . The CEO led a costly push to
expand the firm’s gas holdings during the past decade. He was
replaced as chairman June 21 by Archie Dunham.  McClendon has been under fire for using personal stakes in
the company’s oil and gas wells to borrow privately more than
$800 million last year from some of the company’s biggest
financiers.  He also has been criticized for a wrong-way bet in natural-
gas prices that damaged the Oklahoma City-based company’s cash
flow, increased its borrowing costs and spurred its biggest
investors to replace more than half the board.  The Peak suit is among similar claims filed in federal and
state courts in states including  Pennsylvania ,  Michigan  and
Texas alleging that Chesapeake breached contracts to buy oil and
gas leases.  Change of Plans  Those suing typically claim Chesapeake offered top prices,
including sign-up bonuses, then walked away from agreements when
gas prices dropped or shale formations proved less profitable to
develop than originally projected.  Peak officials sued Chesapeake in 2009, alleging that its
executives began a “land grab” in eastern Texas and western
 Louisiana  in early 2008, seeking to acquire the rights to large
swaths of the Haynesville Shale area. Chesapeake relied on an
“army of  landmen ” to acquire leases, Peak’s attorneys said in
court filings.  Peak officials contend that McClendon was personally
involved in their deal, approving a landman’s offer of $15,000
an acre and pushing to speed negotiations.  Upon learning Peak officials wanted the offer in writing,
McClendon sent his negotiator an e-mail urging him to complete
the deal promptly. “Sooner the better of course!” McClendon
said in the July 1, 2008, e-mail, according to court filings.  McClendon described the push to acquire rights to the
Haynesville Shale formation in a July 2008 call with investors,
saying he was trying to make Chesapeake “the only game in town
for a lot of owners of smaller tracts of land out there.”  No Snoozing  “We especially understand the value in today’s world of
having a huge land machine that can devour big chunks of land
across these massive new unconventional plays,” McClendon said,
according to a transcript. “In these plays, if you snooze, you
lose. And with over 4,000 landmen in the field every day buying
new leases, I can assure you that Chesapeake is not snoozing.”  Four months later, McClendon and other Chesapeake officials
weren’t as eager to complete the deal as gas prices continued to
fall, Peak’s lawyers said.  “The transaction failed to close because market conditions
had changed, Chesapeake ran into cash flow problems and
Chesapeake was looking for excuses to back out of its pending
deals for Haynesville Shale properties,” the  Texas  company’s
lawyers said in February appeals court filing.  The price of natural gas had dropped in 2008 by about 50
percent from June to September, Peak’s lawyer Clint Schumacher
said in the company’s complaint.  Price Fall  “Because of the falling price of natural gas and
tightening credit markets, the agreement between Chesapeake and
sellers was no longer economically advantageous for Chesapeake
in October 2008,” Schumacher said. “Rather than suffering the
ill-effect of the changing market by fulfilling its contractual
obligations to sellers, Chesapeake chose to repudiate the
agreement.”  Chesapeake’s lawyers countered that the “letter of
intent” between the two companies over the oil and gas leases
didn’t amount to a final contract and Peak officials failed to
come up with a final list of leases to be covered.  “The letter of intent was simply the beginning of a
negotiation,” Chesapeake’s lawyers said in court papers in June
2010. A final agreement was never reached, the lawyers said.  “Peak cannot enforce a sale and assignment between the
parties because, as a matter of law, Peak cannot demonstrate
that it performed its obligations,” Chesapeake said. “In
tendering only 1,645 acres, Peak failed to perform under the
letter of intent.”  Ruling on Letter  Ward, the trial judge, disagreed, finding that the letter
of intent was a contract, that Chesapeake breached it, and that
the company must pay for the acres Peak tendered.  “The letter was certainly meant to bind the parties to the
transaction,” Ward said in his March 25, 2011, order.  The additional acres covered in the letter of intent were
irrelevant, Ward said. Chesapeake still had to pay for those
acres Peak tendered, he said.  Chesapeake was seeking to acquire all the acreage it could
and continued to negotiate with Peak after learning of the true
extent of Peak’s holdings, Ward said in his 33-page opinion.  “Chesapeake continued working on the deal and extending
out the time of closing, making it clear that Chesapeake did not
view the difference in acreage to be material to their deal,”
Ward wrote. “Accordingly, the discrepancy in the acreage of
land simply does not excuse Chesapeake from having to perform
under the letter.”  Higher Prices  Eric N. Smith, assistant director of the Tulane Energy
Institute and a finance professor with an oil and gas
background, said the outcome of the case “will not have a
material effect on the stock price because it is part of the
normal cost of doing business.”  “That said, Chesapeake does not need any more bad news
right now,” Smith said yesterday in an e-mail. “Chesapeake
needs prices for natural gas and gas liquids to improve
significantly for them to be able to produce the profits that
existing investors are expecting. Realistically, that price turn
is several months if not a year or more in the future.”  The lower-court case is Coe v. Chesapeake Exploration LLC,
2:09-cv-00290, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall). The appeal is Coe v. Chesapeake Exploration LLC, 11-
41003,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Fifth Circuit (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans
at   allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 