-- China Wants Sea Spat Off Asean Agenda as Clinton Urges Talks
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-07-11T11:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/china-wants-sea-dispute-off-asean-agenda-as-clinton-urges-talks.html
China warned nations to avoid
mentioning territorial disputes with the  Philippines  and  Vietnam 
at a security meeting this week, rebuffing U.S. Secretary of
State Hillary Clinton’s call for talks on the issue.  Clinton indicated yesterday the U.S. would raise concerns
over the South China Sea during meetings in  Phnom Penh ,
 Cambodia , where envoys from 26 Asia-Pacific countries and the
European Union meet tomorrow. Speaking at a press conference in
 Hanoi  with Vietnam’s Foreign Minister Pham Binh Minh, Clinton
called competing claims in the waters a “critical issue.”  The Asean meetings are “not an appropriate venue for
discussing the South China Sea,” Foreign Ministry spokesman  Liu Weimin  told reporters in Beijing yesterday, in response to a
question over U.S. concerns about a code of conduct in the
waters. “Intentional stirring up of the issue is ignoring the
nations striving for development, intentionally kidnapping the
relationship between China and Asean.”  The diplomatic sparring reflects concern over China’s move
last month to develop disputed areas of the South China Sea with
oil and gas reserves that Hanoi’s leaders already awarded to
companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and OAO Gazprom. Vietnam
and the Philippines reject China’s map of the waters as a basis
for development, and have sought a regional solution to increase
their bargaining power with  Asia ’s biggest military spender.  Vietnam Role  Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  told Japanese
counterpart Koichiro Gemba that he hopes  Japan  will
appropriately handle problems in the bilateral relationship, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported, citing Yang speaking at a
meeting in Phnom Penh, Cambodia.  China won’t accept Japan’s objections over a “routine”
patrol it sent to the Diaoyu Islands, Foreign Ministry spokesman
Liu Weimin told reporters in Beijing today. The island chain,
known as the Senkaku in Japanese, is claimed by both Tokyo and
Beijing.  Clinton arrived in Phnom Penh today to hold meetings with
Asean nations and attend the security meeting tomorrow. She
visited Vietnam before the meetings in part to get a sense of
the government’s posture and thinking about the  South China Sea ,
according to a State Department official who was not authorized
to speak on the record.  “The  United States  appreciates Vietnam’s contributions to
a collaborative diplomatic resolution of disputes and a
reduction of tensions in the South China Sea,” Clinton said in
Hanoi. The U.S. looks “to Asean to make rapid progress with
China towards an effective Code of Conduct.”  Engaging China  Asean countries, including four with claims in the South
China Sea, reached an agreement two days ago on rules for
operating in the waters and will seek talks with China. The
Philippines called for an enforceable code of conduct during a
meeting of envoys from Asean, China, Japan and  South Korea ,
according to a statement citing Foreign Affairs Secretary Albert del Rosario.  “This expression of hope is not alien to us, nor should it
come as a surprise,” he told the meeting, according to the
statement.  Asean has achieved a “milestone” because all countries
are now committed to agree to a legally binding code of conduct,
according to Secretary-General Surin Pitsuwan. Last year, Asean
and China agreed on guidelines to implement a non-binding
agreement signed in 2002.  The 2002 Asean-China  statement  calls on signatories to
avoid occupying disputed islands, inform others of military
exercises and resolve territorial disputes peacefully. The eight
guidelines approved last year say activities in the sea should
be step-by-step, on a voluntary basis and based on consensus.  Easing Anxiety  “The fact that it’s on the right track it’s already
lessening the anxiety of the international community and of the
regional states that there could be some potential conflicts and
tension in the region,” Surin told reporters in Phnom Penh
today.  Vietnam Oil & Gas Group, also known as PetroVietnam, called
on China National Offshore Oil Corp., the government-owned
parent of  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , to cancel an invitation for foreign
companies to explore nine blocks in the South China Sea. Chinese
vessels last year cut the cables of a PetroVietnam survey ship
and chased away a boat in waters delimited by the Philippines.  While the U.S. remains concerned about the South China Sea,
Clinton’s comments appear to be softer than in previous years,
according to Gary Li, head of marine and aviation forecasting at
Exclusive Analysis Ltd., a London-based business advisory firm.  The U.S. is “not as forwardly anti-China as last time
round,” he wrote in an e-mail. That combined with “the lack of
any bilateral mechanisms in the code of conduct will mean there
will be little change in  China ’s posture on the South China
Sea.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Phnom Penh at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Hanoi at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  