-- China Stocks Fall to 6-Month Low as Imports Miss Forecast
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-10T07:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/china-s-stock-futures-drop-before-trade-data-poly-real-may-fall.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index down to a six-month low, after a government
report showed imports rose less than anticipated in June while
export growth slowed.  Shenzhen Chiwan Wharf Holdings Ltd. led a decline for port
operators as a gauge of export orders showed a contraction for
the first time since January, suggesting that overseas shipments
may slow in coming months.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048) , the
nation’s second-biggest developer, slumped 3.7 percent after
forecasting lower first-half profit. PetroChina Co. rose the
most in two months on speculation the energy producer’s shares
are undervalued after plunging yesterday to a record low.  “Trade data are pretty weak,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-
based  fund manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285
million. “Worries about the strength of the economy will weigh
on the market and drive stocks down.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 6.4 points, or 0.3
percent, to 2,164.44 at the close, the lowest since Jan. 6. The
 CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  sank 0.4 percent to 2,406.71. The  Bloomberg China-
US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, slid 1.7 percent yesterday.  The Shanghai index has fallen 1.6 percent this year,
reversing a gain of as much as 12 percent, on concern the
government isn’t doing enough to stem the slowdown. It trades at
9.6 times estimated profit, compared with the 17.6 average since
Bloomberg began compiling the  data  in 2006.  Trade Data  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at
15.62 today, compared with this year’s average of 18.13. About
7.5 billion shares changed hands in the index yesterday, 12
percent lower than the daily average this year.  China’s inbound shipments increased 6.3 percent from a year
earlier, the customs bureau said in a statement today in
Beijing, compared with the 11 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 32 economists. Overseas sales gained
11.3 percent. The  trade surplus  rose to a three-year high of
$31.7 billion.  “There’s something bad for everyone in this,” said  Tim
Condon , chief Asia economist at ING Financial Markets in
 Singapore , who previously worked at the  World Bank . “On the
import side the news is just bad,” with evidence of weak
investment spending, which “reinforces hard-landing worries.”  Shenzhen Chiwan slumped 4.8 percent to 9.84 yuan. Shanghai
International Port (Group) Co., the operator of the world’s
second-busiest harbor, slipped 0.4 percent to 2.69 yuan.  A gauge of property stocks in the Shanghai Composite
dropped 2.1 percent, the most among five industry groups. Poly
Real Estate dropped for the first time in eight days, losing 3.6
percent to 12.53 yuan.  Gemdale Corp. (600383) , the fourth-biggest
developer by market value, slumped 1.6 percent to 6.84  yuan .  Deflation Risk  China’s housing ministry plans to hold local governments
more accountable for easing property market curbs, the 21st
Century Business Herald reported today, citing an unidentified
person close to the ministry. The government should tighten home
purchase restrictions and ask local authorities to implement
curbs more strictly, the newspaper cited Yang Hongxu, deputy
head of E-House China R&D Institute, as saying.  Stocks tumbled yesterday after a drop in producer prices
fueled concern deflation may spread to other parts of the
economy and Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the economy faces
“relatively large” downward pressure.  ZTE Drops  Government data showing the  consumer price index  rose 2.2
percent in June, the slowest pace in more than two years,
follows the second interest-rate cut in a month last week. A
statistics bureau report on July 13 is expected to show  China’s
economy  expanded 7.7 percent in the second quarter, the slowest
pace in three years, according to the median estimate of 35
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Slowing June consumer prices and the possibility that July
CPI growth may be less than 2 percent provides greater room for
policy fine-tuning, the People’s Daily reported, citing  Ba
Shusong , a researcher at Development Research Center of the
State Council.  ZTE Corp., China’s second-largest maker of telecom
equipment, slid to the lowest since March 2009, losing 5.5
percent to 13.05 yuan in Shenzhen. China is said to plan
retaliation if the European Union investigates government
subsidies to ZTE and Huawei Technologies Co., the Financial
Times reported yesterday, citing a person briefed on the
meeting. Both companies have denied receiving any improper
subsidies, the FT reported.  Airlines Climb  “ZTE has sales exposure in the EU,” Leping Huang, analyst
at Nomura International Hong Kong Ltd., said in a telephone
interview. “All major stakeholders including Ericsson and Nokia
don’t want the EU to go through with this. No one benefits.”  In  Europe , the yield on Spain’s 10-year bond rose above the
7 percent threshold that prompted bailouts in  Greece , Ireland
and  Portugal  as regional finance ministers gathered in Brussels
to work out crisis measures. Europe is  China ’s biggest export
market, making up about 18 percent of the nation’s overseas
shipments, according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  PetroChina rebounded 1.1 percent to 8.96 yuan after falling
to a record low yesterday on concern cuts in energy prices will
hurt earnings. China, the world’s second-biggest oil consumer,
will reduce gasoline and diesel prices for the third time since
May after global crude costs tumbled.  “Investors are taking this opportunity to buy up the
stock, hence the rebound,” said Li Xin, an analyst at
Masterlink in Shanghai. The stock trades at 11.5 times estimated
price earnings, compared with the five-year average of 17.1 and
the record low of 10.89, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  China Eastern Airlines Co. led gains for airlines on the
prospect lower fuel prices will boost earnings. Shares of the
second-biggest domestic carrier climbed 2.6 percent to 4.35
yuan.  Air China Ltd. (601111) , the largest international airline, rose
2.4 percent to 6.35 yuan.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  