-- China’s Cadres Blocked From Spending Public Cash on Luxury
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-10T07:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/china-s-cadres-barred-from-buying-luxury-goods-with-public-cash.html
China will bar government agencies
from spending public money on  luxury goods  and lavish receptions
as it combats corruption and burnishes its image ahead of a
Communist Party leadership handover this year.  The new rules call for more supervision over spending on
vehicles, receptions and trips abroad, which the public sees
“as a major source of corruption and waste,” the state-run
Xinhua News Agency said yesterday.  The restrictions come after a series of scandals and
embarrassments for the Communist Party, including the downfall
of former Chongqing Party Secretary Bo Xilai and criticism
online after party cadres were spotted wearing luxury watches
and clothing at this year’s annual legislative session. With the
party preparing to change leadership later this year, Premier
 Wen Jiabao  warned in March that corruption could endanger the
party’s survival.  “The rules are part of the government’s effort to revive
its image after a series of scandals including Bo Xilai,” Willy
Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct professor of history at the  Chinese
University  of  Hong Kong , said. “Beijing hopes to build an image
of a clean government but the rules themselves won’t be useful
if there are no laws or legal arrangements for civilians to
report or sue the government officials.”  Chinese officials spent 408.5 billion yuan ($64 billion) on
vehicle-related expenditures, 200 billion yuan on meals, and
another 300 billion yuan on going abroad in 2004,  China Central
Television  said on its  website , citing the Communist Party
newspaper Study Times. The 200 billion yuan on meals is enough
to build another Three Gorges Dam, CCTV said.  ‘Plain Living’  Those sorts of expenses contradict  admonitions  by  Mao
Zedong , founder of the People’s Republic of China, for party
members to “remain modest and prudent,” and maintain a
lifestyle of “hard work and plain living.”  The new restrictions will go into effect Oct. 1, the start
of a week-long holiday celebrating the founding of the PRC. The
rules have also been handed down as  China’s economy  shows signs
of cooling down.  Economic growth may have slowed to 7.7 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, according to the median
estimate of 36 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The nation
cut benchmark  interest rates  on July 5 for the second time in a
month, adding to the first reduction since 2008.  Meal Limit  The government of Wenzhou, a Chinese city where slowing
growth has spurred dozens of suicides, bankruptcies and
disappearances by local businessmen, imposed a limit of 60  yuan 
a person for work-related meals and barred officials from
expensing abalone, shark fin, and sea cucumber, the Wenzhou city
Commission for Discipline Inspection said on July 5.  “Some local governments cannot even pay salaries so the
government wants to show that it’s leading by example,” Minxin Pei, a professor of politics and government at  Claremont McKenna
College  in California, said in a phone interview today. “The
primary consideration is that right now the Chinese economic
situation looks terrible.”  Wencalled in March for an end to using public funds to
purchase cigarettes and “high-end” alcohol, as a widening
wealth gap has fueled public outrage over official malfeasance.
The state-run CNTV website reported last week that China will
ban officials from consuming shark fin at government expense
within three years.  Last month, Wenzhou announced it was selling 1,400
government cars to cut costs and increase transparency.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  