-- China’s Gold Demand Seen Rising 13% as Council Pares Target
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-10T06:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/china-s-gold-demand-seen-rising-13-as-council-pares-target-1-.html
Gold demand in  China , the second-
largest user after  India  last year, may expand 13 percent to 870
metric tons in 2012, the World Gold Council said, dropping a
forecast for consumption to reach as much as 1,000 tons.  Jewelry demand may expand 7.7 percent to 550 tons, slower
than the 13 percent growth last year,  Albert Cheng , Far East
managing director at the producer-funded group, said in an
interview. Demand for bars and coins may gain 24 percent to 320
tons, lower than the 38 percent climb last year, he said.  Cash gold slumped for a fourth month in May in the worst
run in 13 years as  Europe ’s debt crisis drove investors to seek
the dollar as a haven over the precious metal. Gold sales in
China in the second quarter were slower-than-expected as local
consumers usually refrain from buying when a rally stalls, said
Cheng, who’d made the 1,000 ton prediction in May.  “From our talk to the industry people, we gathered that
the Europe’s debt crisis has led to a firmer  U.S. dollar , which
in turn suppressed the investors’ willingness to buy gold,”
Cheng said in Beijing yesterday. “Gold jewelry is also
discretionary consumption, so consumers feel they can wait.”  Spot gold was little changed at $1,586.30 an ounce at 2:03
p.m. in  Singapore , down from a record $1,921.15 last September.
The metal has rallied for eleven straight years as investors
sought protection from weaker currencies and  inflation , and
demand in  emerging markets  increased.  Record Quarter  China remains the “most important player on the global
gold market,” Commerzbank AG said in a report yesterday, citing
increased demand from an expanding middle class and purchases by
the country’s central bank. Demand in China totaled a record
255.2 tons in the first three months, compared with 232.5 tons a
year earlier, the World Gold Council said in a report in May.  The second-quarter is usually a quiet season in terms of
gold sales in China, Cheng said, adding that an estimate of
demand will be released in August. “Overall, demand should be
lower” in the three-months to June 30 compared with “an
exceptionally good” first quarter, he said.  “We are still optimistic on China’s gold-investment demand
as investors here don’t have much choice in terms of investing
their wealth,” Cheng said. “The stock market’s performance is
poor and the property market’s rally has stalled.”  China’s benchmark  stock index in Shanghai  has lost 1.2
percent this year. Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged on July 8 to
continue property controls and prevent prices from rebounding,
according to an official Xinhua News Agency report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  