-- China’s Import Growth Misses Estimates for June
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-10T06:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/china-s-import-growth-misses-estimates-for-june.html
China’s imports rose less than
anticipated in June, pushing the  trade surplus  to a three-year
high and adding pressure on the government to support demand as
the global economy slows.  Inbound  shipments  increased 6.3 percent from a year earlier,
the customs bureau said in a statement today in Beijing,
compared with the 11 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 32 economists. Export growth slowed to 11.3 percent
and the trade surplus rose to $31.7 billion.  The data add to signs of flagging momentum for global
growth as Europe’s debt crisis curbs exports and property
controls restrain domestic demand in the world’s second-biggest
economy. Rising surpluses may further strain trade relations
with the U.S., which surpassed the European Union in the first
half as China’s biggest foreign market and is in the midst of a
presidential election marked by criticism of the Asian nation.  “There’s something bad for everyone in this,” said  Tim Condon , chief Asia economist at ING Financial Markets in
Singapore, who previously worked at the  World Bank . “On the
import side the news is just bad,” with evidence of weak
investment spending, which “reinforces hard-landing worries,”
he said.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks reversed gains after
the report, falling 0.3 percent at 2:23 p.m. in  Tokyo . An
S&P/ASX 200  subindex  of Australian materials suppliers dropped 1
percent as companies including BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto
Ltd. declined, an indicator of their reliance on Chinese demand.  Weaker Currency  China has allowed its currency to weaken this year amid
slowing growth and Europe’s turmoil. The  yuan  fell 0.88 percent
from April through June, the biggest quarterly decline since a
dollar peg ended in 2005. Today it strengthened 0.1 percent to
6.3678 per dollar at 1:22 p.m. local time, according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trading System.  The country’s trade surplus with the U.S. and lack of
currency gains have been issues in the U.S. election campaign
this year, as American job growth slowed last quarter.  Mitt
Romney , the Republican presidential candidate, has criticized
President  Barack Obama  as too soft on China. At the same time,
Obama has expanded trade complaints against the nation: Last
week he accused it of imposing unfair taxes on American vehicles,
mostly from General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC.  “This kind of headline is going to be a red flag to U.S.
politicians that have to be seen doing something, especially
with the jobs picture,” Condon said.  Exceeding Estimates  The increase in exports compared with a 15.3 percent gain
in May. The median estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg survey
was for a 10.6 percent gain. The trade surplus was wider than
the $24 billion median  forecast  of economists.  A gauge of export orders in China’s official purchasing
managers’ index for June showed a contraction for the first time
since January, suggesting that overseas shipments may slow in
coming months.  The nation cut benchmark  interest rates  on July 5 for the
second time in a month, adding to the first reduction since 2008
and three cuts in banks’ reserve requirements since November.  Economic growth  may have slowed to 7.7 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, according to the median
estimate of 36 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
economy expanded 8.1 percent in the first three months, the
fifth quarterly deceleration. Data will be announced July 13.  ‘Large’ Pressure  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said authorities will intensify fine-
tuning of policies as downward pressure on the economy remains
“relatively large,” according to a July 8 report by the
official Xinhua News Agency.  The government will promote steady growth in overseas sales,
Wen said. He also urged Chinese exporters to explore markets
throughout Asia and diversify trading partners in the face of
rising protectionism, according to the Xinhua report.  The latest figures put the government further at risk of
missing its goal of 10 percent growth in trade this year. First-
half exports rose 9.2 percent from a year earlier, while imports
gained 6.7 percent. Sales to the European Union fell 0.8 percent
in the first six months, while U.S. exports rose 13.6 percent.  A survey of almost 2,000 exporters by the customs bureau
last month indicated that in the near future “China’s foreign
trade situation is still not optimistic,” the bureau said in
its statement today.  Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said on June 18 that meeting
the goal is “still possible” if the  European debt crisis  can
be contained in the second half. Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  said
July 5 that fulfilling the target will be an “arduous task,”
according to the official Xinhua News Agency.  Equipment Imports  Foreign companies’ imports of equipment and other items for
investment fell 22 percent in the first half, the customs bureau
said.  The “weak” growth in imports resulted from both China’s
domestic demand and “artificially high inventory” levels in
the commodities industry, said Joy Yang, chief  Greater China 
economist at Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd. in  Hong Kong .  The U.K. may report today that industrial production fell
in May from the previous month, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Readings on industrial
output are due in France and Italy and the U.K. will also give
trade data. A U.S. survey of small businesses may show a decline
in confidence for June.  Also in Europe, Luxembourg, the richest country in the 17-
nation  euro zone , claimed two top economic-policy positions and
Germany held on to a third in the climax of months of wrangling
over high-level appointments.  Mersch Appointment  Luxembourg’s  Yves Mersch , Europe’s longest-serving central
banker, was named to the European Central Bank’s Executive Board.
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker ’s term as chairman of euro
finance meetings was extended and Germany’s Klaus Regling, head
of the euro-area’s temporary bailout fund, was named to run the
permanent one that starts operations soon.  ‘‘It is very important now for both the euro zone and the
global economy that the shift can be made from tackling the
problem of sovereign debt and of bank capitalization, shift from
these two problems towards growth-enhancing policies,”  Yves Leterme , deputy secretary-general at the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, said yesterday in an
interview in Seoul.  China’s consumer inflation eased to a 29-month low of 2.2
percent in June, a statistics bureau report showed yesterday.
Sun Junwei, a Beijing-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said
the development provides “sufficient room for more aggressive
easing to support growth.”  The government may cut banks’ reserve requirements again as
soon as this month and needs to boost  capital spending  on
infrastructure, though not to the extent it did in 2008 and 2009,
said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in Hong Kong.  “They don’t have to be as aggressive as last time around
but nonetheless right now, infrastructure investment is the
instrument that’s the most effective in the short term,” Zhang
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from  Kevin Hamlin , Nerys Avery
and Baizhen Chua in Beijing and Cynthia Li and Zeb Eckert in
Hong Kong. Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg news staff on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  