-- Chinese Vitamin C Makers’ Price-Fixing Trial Set for Nov. 5
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-07-10T20:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/chinese-vitamin-c-makers-price-fixing-trial-set-for-nov-5-1-.html
China Pharmaceutical Group Ltd. (1093)  and
several other Chinese makers of vitamin C will face a Nov. 5
trial in the U.S. for alleged price-fixing, a federal judge
said.  U.S. District Judge Brian M. Cogan in Brooklyn,  New York ,
today set the date in a case brought by purchasers of vitamin C.
In January, the judge allowed the buyers to proceed with their
case as a group against the vitamin makers.  Other companies sued in the case include Weisheng
Pharmaceutical Co.,  North China Pharmaceutical Co. (600812) , Hebei
Welcome Pharmaceutical Co. and  Northeast Pharmaceutical Group
Co. (000597)   The vitamin companies have argued that the Chinese
government forced them to fix prices. The judge rejected that
contention in a September ruling.  “The Chinese law relied upon by defendants did not compel
their illegal conduct,” he wrote.  Aland (Jiangsu) Nutraceutical Co., another Chinese firm
named in the lawsuit, settled with plaintiffs in May for $10.5
million, according to court filings.  Dominant Players  Livestock supplement firm Animal Science Products Inc.,
based in Nacogdoches, Texas, and Elizabeth, N.J.-based food firm
The Ranis Co. filed a complaint in 2005 accusing the Chinese
companies of conspiring to inflate prices for bulk vitamin C.  The vitamin makers, dominant players in a roughly
$500 million global market, formed a cartel in 2001, according
to the complaint.  Lawyers for the Chinese firms, including Charles Critchlow
of  Baker & McKenzie , Richard Goldstein of Orrick, Herrington &
Sutcliffe LLP and Daniel Mason of Zelle Hofmann Voelbel & Mason
LLP, didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment on the
trial date.  The case is In Re Vitamin C  Antitrust Litigation , 1:06-md-
01738, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 