-- China Southern Proift May Slump on Weak Travel Demand
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-07-10T11:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/china-southern-proift-may-slump-on-weak-travel-demand.html
China Southern Airlines Co. (1055) , the
nation’s biggest carrier by passengers, said first-half profit
may fall more than 50 percent because of slowing economic growth
and higher jetfuel prices.  Profit will drop from 2.76 billion yuan ($433 million) a
year earlier, the Guangzhou-based company said in a  statement 
today. The weakening of the Chinese currency against the  U.S.
dollar  also caused foreign exchange losses, it said.  China Southern filled a smaller percentage of seats in the
first five months than a year earlier as economic growth slowed,
damping  travel demand . The nation’s gross domestic product may
have expanded 7.7 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, down from 8.1 percent in the prior three months,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists before data due July 13.  “ China  Southern has the greatest domestic exposure” among
the country’s top three carriers, said Timothy Ross, an analyst
with Credit Suisse AG. It “will feel the slowing growth in
demand most acutely.”  Shares of the carrier rose 0.3 percent to HK$3.48 at close
of  Hong Kong  trading, before the statement was issued. The stock
has lost 11 percent this year.  Credit Suisse said in a separate note to clients that it
expects China Southern’s first-half profit to slump 98 percent
to 46 million yuan as earnings are affected by a 13.4 percent
jump in domestic fuel costs. The carrier’s profit in the first-
quarter fell 74 percent.  China has allowed its currency to weaken this year amid
slowing growth and Europe’s turmoil. The  yuan  fell 0.88 percent
from April through June, the biggest quarterly decline since a
dollar peg ended in 2005. Chinese Airlines typically hold
dollar-denominated debts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  