-- Citigroup Recommends European Stocks With Russia ‘Savior’
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-07-10T14:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/citigroup-recommends-european-stocks-with-russia-savior-.html
Investors should buy European stocks
with sales in Russia as the oil-producing nation’s economic
growth will outperform the debt-stricken euro region’s,
according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   “The point is that Russia has growth while Europe is facing
stagnation,”  Kingsmill Bond , chief strategist at Citigroup in
Moscow, said in a phone interview today. “A lot of the growth
that European companies will generate will be from their Russian
operations.”  Citigroup recommends stocks including  Danone SA (BN) , the French
yogurt maker,  Carlsberg A/S (CARLA) , the Copenhagen-based largest brewer
in Russia, and Sweden’s  Oriflame Cosmetics SA (ORI) , analysts said in
an e-mailed research note today entitled “Russia - potential
saviour of Europe.”  Russia’s  economy  may grow as much as 4 percent this year,
more than previously estimated, as investment and retail sales
outpace forecasts, Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said on June
21. The nation has the highest level of estimated economic
growth and the lowest levels of household, government and
corporate debt compared with major European countries, according
to Citigroup’s report.  “ Europe  is burdened by very significant levels of debt,
while Russia has much lower debt levels and is not burdened by
deleveraging,” Bond said.  Russia had a 0.8 percent budget surplus last year and the
nation’s unemployment rate fell to the lowest level in at least
13 years last month. The economy grew 4.8 percent in the first
quarter, the fastest pace since the three months ended September
2011. Retail sales grew 6.8 percent from a year earlier in May
as consumers have been bolstered by slower inflation.  Corporate Governance  Russia-based companies’ share performances are closely
correlated with the oil price and are prone to a “weak” legal
environment, according to the report.  European executives ensure “better  corporate governance ,”
while Russian operations give access to rapid economic growth,
Bond said.  “You’re likely to tap better corporate governance, if the
stocks can be controlled by the market rather than an
individual, it’s likely that more interest will be paid to
minority shareholders,” Bond said.  About 50 percent of Russia’s government revenue comes from
energy exports. The Micex Index rallied 1.1 percent to 1,429.98
by 5:17 p.m. in Moscow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  