-- Citigroup Said to Keep Money Out of Own Fund Amid Volcker
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-07-10T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/citigroup-said-to-keep-money-out-of-own-fund-amid-volcker.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  is seeking to raise
money for a new hedge fund without putting its own cash into the
venture, in a test of investors’ willingness to buy in when the
bank isn’t sharing risk, said two people briefed on the plan.  The lender, which is preparing for U.S. curbs on lenders
investing their own capital, seeks to raise $50 million to $75
million from outside investors for the fund, said one of the
people, who asked not to be identified because Citigroup hasn’t
disclosed the information publicly. The pool will trade in so-
called collateralized loan obligations, or CLOs, according to
marketing materials obtained by Bloomberg News.  Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 55, who helps
oversee a group of company-owned hedge funds, is grappling with
the advent of the Volcker rule, which seeks to restrict banks
from owning more than 3 percent of any fund. New York-based
Citigroup has said it plans to withdraw cash from other funds,
some of which exceed the proposed rules, and replace it with
money from outside investors.  “It’s as close as you can get to what Volcker was trying
to achieve,” said Gerald Hanweck, a former Federal Reserve
economist who’s now a finance professor at  George Mason
University  in Fairfax, Virginia. “If the fund collapses, fine.
If it doesn’t, fine. There are no ramifications at all for the
corporation.”  The fund will be part of the  Citi Capital Advisors  unit, or
CCA, which contains Citigroup’s venture-capital, private-equity
and hedge funds. CCA manages about $18.6 billion, including
about $5 billion that belongs to the bank, a person familiar
with the matter said last month.  Varying Risk  Serhan Secmen will run the fund, which will focus on the
riskier parts of CLOs, according to the documents. CLOs are
derivatives that pool high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them
into securities of varying risk and return. Secmen, who
previously traded CLOs for Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., will
report to Fred Hoffman, who oversees a group of internal credit
funds, the documents show.  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank by assets, is
seeking outside investment for other CCA funds so it can
withdraw its own money to comply with the Volcker rule, named
for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker . Most of the cash in
Hoffman’s $200 million Strategic Credit Fund and the $400
million Mortgage/Credit Opportunity Fund belongs to
shareholders, people familiar with the matter said in February.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman, declined
to comment. The marketing of the fund was reported earlier by
 Absolute Return + Alpha , published by Euromoney Institutional
Investor Plc.  ‘Owner-Operated’  Institutional investors prefer employee-owned hedge funds,
such as those run by Bridgewater Associates LP and Brevan Howard
Asset Management LLP, said Don Steinbrugge of Agecroft Partners
LLC, a Richmond Virginia-based advisory firm. Bank-managed funds
have suffered from instability as employees left to start their
own firms, Steinbrugge said.  Citigroup plans to let employees acquire part of the CCA
unit, said Chief Operating Officer  John Havens .  “Our competitors are an owner-operated model,” Havens
said in February. “Clients like independent asset managers.”  Investors in funds managed by banks such as Citigroup also
prefer that the firm take a stake, Steinbrugge said. The Volcker
rule’s restriction will hurt banks’ ability to market internal
funds as a result, he said.  “People want to invest in a fund where the person managing
the fund has skin in the game,” he said. “They want to make
sure that the hedge fund’s interests are in line with
investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 