-- Coal-Starved Power Utilities to Get Freight Link Succor
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-07-10T18:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/coal-starved-power-utilities-to-get-freight-link-succor.html
India  is poised to start building an
880-billion rupee ($16 billion) rail network, its biggest since
independence, as early as September to add capacity and cut the
time to move cargo including coal.  State-owned  Dedicated Freight Corridor Corp. of India Ltd .
has bought about 75 percent of the 10,840 hectares (26,786
acres) of land needed for the 3,373-kilometer (2,096 miles) link
and expects to acquire the rest by March, Anil Kumar Saxena,
spokesman at the Ministry of Railways, said in an interview in
 New Delhi . The railways’ coal-carrying capacity will increase
eightfold after the project is completed, he said.  The freight network linking the biggest coal producing
region with generators in north India may cut costs for plants
in a nation where half of the power capacity runs on the fuel.
 NTPC Ltd. (NTPC) ,  Lanco (LANCI)  Infratech Ltd. and rivals have not been able to
run some of their plants at capacity because coal supply fell
short. Transportation bottlenecks in  Asia ’s second-largest
landmass have added to their woes, according to Dipesh Dipu,
director at Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd. in India.  “The existing railway infrastructure is far from adequate
and in many cases plants do not get coal despite stocks at the
mine,” said  R.S. Sharma , managing director of Jindal Power
Ltd., which has a capacity to generate 1,000 megawatts of
electricity. “As the power capacity increases, there will be
need to haul more and more coal.”  The dedicated freight network will comprise two corridors,
according to the company. One will run from Ludhiana, in
northern Punjab state, to Dankuni on the eastern coast, while
the other will link New Delhi with Mumbai on the western coast.
The two will intersect at Dadri, near the capital.  ‘Time Guarantees’  DFCC will build a 66 kilometer stretch between Son Nagar
and Mughalsarai, both in eastern India, by December next year to
demonstrate progress, Saxena said. Work on a 350-kilometer
portion between Kanpur and Khurja, also in the east, will be
awarded as early as September, he said.  The project involves laying 4,200 kilometers of new feeder
lines, Saxena said. These feeder lines will include routes from
coal mines to Son Nagar, in Bihar state, and Gomoh, in Jharkhand
state, linking at least 15 major  power plants  along the
corridor, he said.  The capacity of railways to carry coal will rise to 400
million tons a year from 50 million tons, Saxena said.  “Travel times will be cut by half,” said Saxena. “We can
also enter into time guarantees for movement of coal to power
houses, and introduce new efficient wagons, which can’t be done
today because of limitations of existing lines.”  About 80 percent of India’s coal reserves are in the five
eastern states of Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Orissa and
West Bengal, according the  Ministry of Coal .  Power Deficit  NTPC, Asia’s biggest electricity producer by value, said
last month that it has scaled back plans to add coal-fired
capacity by 42 percent because of fuel shortage. Lanco has
4,988 megawatts of capacity under operation, according to its
website and is adding plants in the area that will serviced by
the rail network .  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government aims to create
76 gigawatts of generation capacity in the next five years to
bridge an 8.6 percent peak-demand shortfall in the quarter ended
June and revive economic growth from the slowest pace in nine
years. Removing fuel supply constraints will be important,
according to Deloitte’s Dipu.  Last year, about 45 million tons of coal was held up in
mines because of lack of transportation, Dipu said.  Many Indian mines are operating at one-third of capacity as
the rail system can’t move more cargo, Alok Perti, former
secretary at the coal ministry had said Jan. 31. State-
controlled  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s biggest producer, has
been seeking construction of at least four railway links for as
many as six years, which it has said will ease congestion and
enable a 66 percent increase in output.  Faster Trains  The dedicated corridor, targeted to be completed by March
2017, will help almost quadruple freight train speeds to 70
kilometers an hour and carry 55 percent of the railways’ cargo
traffic by revenue, according to the DFCC.  The rail project will be a game changer with potential to
introduce predictability of cargo delivery, Kotak Institutional
Equities Research said in a note to clients in May.  “It will imply a meaningful addition to railways’ capacity
and to infrastructure overall,” Lokesh Garg, an analyst with
Mumbai-based Kotak, said by phone on July 6.  DFCC will seek the government’s approval to raise the
project cost to about 880 billion rupees from 770 billion
rupees, after making additions to include more bridges and more
electrified stretches.  Japan International Cooperation Agency will fund 80 percent
of the link in the west coast, while a stretch on the eastern
line will be funded by the  World Bank .  Private Participation  A 530-kilometer section connecting Son Nagar and Dankuni,
both in eastern India, will be awarded to private companies,
according to DFCC website.  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , India’s biggest engineering company,
GMR Group, Tata Projects Ltd. and IRCON International Ltd., a
state-owned builder, are among potential bidders DFCC is in
talks with, Saxena said.  The biggest challenge the project will have to surmount is
the acquisition of remainder portion of the land required.  “Land acquisition has to be done in a very sensitive
manner,” Saxena said. “That’s what we’ve done and that’s why
we’ve had the least problem.”  The link, when completed, will carry 55 percent of the
railways’ freight traffic by revenue, according to DFCC. Coal
accounts for about 45 percent of goods carried by  Indian
Railways , the oldest network in Asia.  “There’s a limitation to moving coal on trucks,” said
Deloitte’s Dipu. “This development would have a huge impact on
the way coal is moved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  