-- Codelco Seeks $2 Billion in Bond for Copper Expansions
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d   a n d   M o l l y   S e l t z e r
-- 2012-07-10T22:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/codelco-seeks-2-billion-in-bond-for-copper-expansions.html
Codelco, the world’s largest copper
producer, raised $2 billion in a sale of debt that includes its
first 30-year bond in more than five years.  The Chilean state-owned company sold $750 million of 30-
year bonds at an extra yield, or spread, of 180 basis points
above U.S. Treasuries. The company also placed $1.25 billion of
10-year bonds at a 165-basis point spread.  Codelco plans to invest about $26 billion this decade to
modernize aging mines and offset declining output from ore with
less copper content. Codelco said the yields it achieved are
among the cheapest funding it has ever had.  “They are a recognition of the credit quality of  Chile  and
of Codelco in an environment characterized by volatility in
international financial markets,” the company said in a
regulatory filing.  The  yield  on 10-year U.S. government bonds fell to 1.5
percent today, six basis points short of the 1.44 percent record
low reached on June 1. The yield on 30-year U.S. Treasury bonds
fell to 2.6 percent, nine basis points above the record low.  Codelco set yields of 3.157 percent on the 10-year bond of
and 4.398 percent on the 30-year bond, it said. The company
received orders for five times as much debt as it sold, it said
in a statement to the Santiago stock exchange.  Retains Profit  Codelco will use the proceeds to refinance debt as well as
to fund its investment program for 2013, it said. The company
has $435 million of bonds falling due this year and another $500
million next year and is building an underground mine at its
century-old Chuquicamata open pit in the Atacama desert. The
government allowed Codelco to retain $800 million, or 40
percent, of last year’s profit.  The state company last sold debt in October 2011, issuing
$1.15 billion of 3.875 percent, 10-year notes to yield 167 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Those bonds traded today at a spread of
169 basis points.  The bonds will be rated A1, the fifth-highest investment
grade rating, Moody’s Investors Service said in a statement.
Codelco’s ownership by Chile, the highest-rated Latin American
country, is a major factor in its rating, Moody’s said. Credit-
default swaps of Chile trade just 15 basis points wider than
 Germany ’s.  Gap Widens  The spread between the yield on Codelco’s bonds and those
on its owner Chile widened to 65 basis points today from 62
yesterday. Codelco sold 30-year bonds in 2005 and 2006.  HSBC Holdings Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. managed the sale
for the Santiago-based company. Before the deal, HSBC was second
in Bloomberg’s league table for arranging Latin American bond
sales in dollars this year, trailing Citigroup Inc. by $386
million.  Codelco’s Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Keller  is in talks
with Anglo American Plc over a 49 percent stake in the latter’s
Sur copper unit that Codelco has an option to buy at a below-
market price.  Codelco and Anglo have already extended the negotiation
period once in their legal dispute over the stake. Anglo wants
to maintain control of Sur, which includes the Los Bronces mine,
where the London-based company completed last year a $2.8
billion expansion, and two of the world’s best undeveloped
copper deposits, according to  John MacKenzie , head of copper at
Anglo. Codelco owns the Andina copper mine adjacent to Los
Bronces in the Andean foothills near capital Santiago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net  or
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  or
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  