-- Colombia Peso Beating Real Means Cut Rate, Carrasquilla Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-07-10T21:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/colombia-peso-trouncing-real-means-cut-rates-carrasquilla-says.html
The Colombian peso’s rally to a
seven-year high against the Brazilian real is a signal to policy
makers to cut interest rates in an effort to curb foreigners’
demand for the country’s fixed-income assets, said former
Finance Minister Alberto Carrasquilla.  The peso has surged 28 percent in the past 12 months to
878.3744 per real and touched a seven-year high of 856.7781 on
June 27. While Brazilian central bankers have cut their
benchmark lending rate 400 basis points, or 4 percentage points,
since August to 8.5 percent, Colombian policy makers have raised
their  rate  75 basis points to 5.25 percent.  The different tacks by the two South American countries are
luring carry-trade investors away from the Brazilian real and
into the peso, said Carrasquilla, who founded Bogota-based
Konfigura Capital after serving as  Colombia ’s finance minister
from 2003 to 2007. In the carry trade, investors buy higher-
yielding assets with funds borrowed from countries with lower
interest rates.  “The  interest rate  is inducing a stronger  exchange rate ,”
Carrasquilla said in an interview today in his Bogota office.
“There are clear incentives toward a carry trade and that will
continue until we get in line” with other countries, he said.  Colombian central bankers will likely wait until second-
quarter growth figures are released in September to begin
reducing rates, Carrasquilla said. Policy makers held the key
rate for a fourth straight month at 5.25 percent on June 29 as
growth cooled and prices of the country’s commodity exports
dropped. Government reports last month showed industrial output
and retail sales fell in April and the economy expanded 4.7
percent in the first quarter, its slowest pace since 2010.  Carrasquilla predicts at least a 25 basis-point cut by
year-end, a move he said would cool demand for the peso by
signaling to investors that rates are heading lower.  “There is no question there will be a cut,” Carrasquilla
said. “The question is when.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  