-- Cornell Researcher Rebuts Colleagues on Fracking Leaks
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-07-10T17:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/cornell-researcher-rebuts-colleagues-on-fracking-leaks.html
Replacing coal with natural gas cuts
the creation of greenhouse gases that cause global warming, a
Cornell University researcher has concluded, rebutting the
findings of colleagues at the university.  Lawrence M. Cathles , a professor in the department of earth
and atmospheric sciences, released a paper that says even if
high rates of natural gas are leaking out after hydraulic
fracturing and during transport, gas will still provide a net
benefit over time.  “The only thing that really counts is the amount of carbon
dioxide you put in the atmosphere,” Cathles said in an
interview today. Because gas releases less carbon dioxide than
coal or oil when combusted, “the story is quite clear that we
would be very well advised to substitute natural gas.”  The impact of natural gas on  climate change  has attracted
attention as the spurt in production from hydraulic fracturing,
or fracking, has pushed down prices and prompted power producers
to shift from coal to gas. Utilities generated as much power
from natural gas as coal in April, the first time natural gas
equaled coal generation since the government started keeping
those  records , in 1973, the Energy Information Agency said July
6.  Cathles’ Cornell colleagues Robert Howarth and Anthony
Ingraffea  published  an article last year that said leaks of
methane from fracking, in which water, chemicals and sand are
pumped into the ground to break apart rock and free gas, mean
the use of natural gas could actually cause more global warming
than coal.  More Potent  The differences between the researchers hinge on two
points: First, estimates of venting and leakages during gas
production, and second, the time frame evaluated. Methane is a
more potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide, but it’s removed
from the atmosphere in less than 20 years, while carbon dioxide
can persist for centuries.  Electricity production is the primary source of greenhouse-
gas emissions in the U.S., according to the Environmental
Protection Agency.  Howarth and Ingraffea  used  data from the EPA to develop its
estimate of a leakage rate of up to 7.9 percent for methane, the
key component of natural gas. Cathles says that estimate is off,
basing his analysis on subsequent industry data and the fact
that the release of that much natural gas would be both
unhealthy and could pose a danger of explosion. Also, companies
wouldn’t allow that much gas to escape freely, he said.  Gas Conversion  “It’s just an impossible number,” he said. Cathles’
estimates that it is more likely less than 2 percent of
production.  Still, even if 10 percent of methane is being released,
conversion to natural gas will still mean an almost 40 percent
reduction in greenhouse gases beginning in a little more than a
century and extending out for centuries to come.  Howarth and Ingraffea analyzed the impacts of natural gas
compared with coal over the next two decades and one century.  “Compared to coal, the footprint of shale gas is at least
20 percent greater and perhaps more than twice as great on the
20-year horizon and is comparable when compared over 100
years,” they wrote in their paper published in the journal
Climatic Change in April 2011.  Cathles said that 20 years is too short of a horizon to
analyze the impact of greenhouse gases, which have been building
up for more than a century. Over time, power production will
need to shift to wind, solar and nuclear production.  “If we can encourage steps like the conversion to gas,
we’ll buy ourselves time to convert,” he said.  Cathles’ paper was published in the journal  Geochemistry,
Geophysics, Geosystems  on June 19. It was released to the public
by Cornell’s public affairs office today.  Howarth and Ingraffea did not immediately respond to e-mail
messages seeking comment on Cathles’ study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  