-- Crude Drops as Norway Ends Oil Strike, China Cuts Imports
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-07-10T12:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/crude-drops-as-norway-ends-oil-strike-china-cuts-imports.html
Oil dropped for a third time in four
days after  Norway  ended a strike that threatened to halt
production by western Europe’s largest crude exporter, while
 China  reduced purchases of the commodity.  Futures slipped as much as 1.6 percent in New York while
London-traded Brent lost 2.1 percent after the Norwegian
government ordered compulsory arbitration in the dispute,
preventing a platform workers’ lockout scheduled to start at
midnight yesterday. The nation pumped about 1.8 percent of
global consumption, data from the Norwegian Petroleum
Directorate show. China’s net crude imports fell to the lowest
level this year, according to customs data today.  “The end of the strike in Norway and lower imports by
China are weighing on  oil prices  today, while in the background
the Europe crisis is unresolved,”  Robert Montefusco , a senior
broker at Sucden Financial Ltd. in London, said by e-mail.
“Unless we get more stimulus from China, it looks like Brent
will test $95 again.”  Brent crude  for August settlement decreased $1.51, or 1.5
percent, to $98.81 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange at 1:30 p.m. London time. West Texas
Intermediate for August delivery fell 84 cents to $85.13 in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
contract climbed 1.8 percent yesterday to $85.99, the highest
close since July 5. Prices are 14 percent lower this year.  Brent’s premium to WTI was at $13.57 a barrel, down from
$14.33 yesterday.  Bollinger Band  Oil in  New York  has technical support along the middle
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, around $83.66 a barrel today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures yesterday
rebounded after trading near that indicator. Buy orders tend to
be clustered close to chart-support levels.  Norway announced the arbitration in a statement published
on the Oslo-based Labor Ministry’s website today. The strike,
which started June 24, disrupted about 15 percent of the
nation’s oil output and 7 percent of natural gas, the Oil
Industry Association said June 27.  Statoil ASA (STL) , the country’s
largest energy company, said it will resume full production
within a week.  “It was looking like the strike was going to deteriorate
further,” said  David Lennox , an analyst at Fat Prophets in
Sydney. “That  risk premium  is certainly coming out of crude.”  Chinese Demand  Oil extended its drop after a report from China’s General
Administration of Customs showed the nation’s net crude imports
fell to 5.28 million barrels a day in June. That’s the least
since purchases of 5.1 million barrels in December and compares
with a record 5.98 million in May, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. China is the world’s second-biggest oil consumer
after the U.S.  The customs bureau also reported that imports of goods
increased 6.3 percent in June from a year earlier, below the 11
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Export
growth was 11.3 percent, down from 15.3 percent in May.  Money managers increased bullish U.S. oil wagers in the
seven days ended July 3, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report yesterday.
Net-long positions advanced by 10,994, or 8.9 percent, to
135,011 futures and options combined.  U.S. oil supplies probably declined for a third week as
refineries processed more crude to meet peak summer demand and
as imports declined, a Bloomberg News survey shows. Stockpiles
fell 1.38 million barrels in the seven days ended July 6,
according to the median of eight analyst estimates before an
Energy Department report tomorrow.  Strait of Hormuz  Refineries stepped up operations to 92.5 percent of their
capacity last week, up  0.5 percentage point  from the previous
week and near the five-year high of 92.6 percent reached June
22, the survey showed.  Crude also fell as  Iran ’s Foreign Minister,  Ali Akbar
Salehi , said the country has no plan to restrict shipping in the
 Strait of Hormuz . Iran has threatened to shut the waterway, a
transit route for about a fifth of the world’s oil shipments, in
response to sanctions on its nuclear program. Futures rose
yesterday after Shargh, a Tehran-based newspaper, said several
Iranian lawmakers plan to propose a bill to impose tariffs on
tankers sailing through the Strait.  Helga Schmid, an aide to European Union foreign policy
chief  Catherine Ashton , and one of Iran’s negotiator, Ali Bagheri, will meet on July 24 in an effort to continue
international talks over the program, the EU said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  