-- Cubist Sues Hospira Over Cubicin Bacteria Medicine Patent
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-07-10T20:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/cubist-sues-hospira-over-cubicin-bacteria-medicine-patent-1-.html
Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc. (CBST) , a maker
of antibiotic medicines, sued  Hospira Inc. (HSP)  for patent
infringement over plans to market a generic version of  Cubicin ,
a drug used to combat the MRSA flesh-eating bacterium.  Hospira, based in  Lake Forest , Illinois, has applied to the
 U.S. Food and Drug Administration  for permission to sell a copy
of Cubicin before to the 2020 expiration of Lexington,
Massachusetts-based Cubist’s patent, according to a complaint
filed yesterday in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware.  Cubist contends in court papers that Hospira lawyers
wrongly claim the patent is “invalid, unenforceable and/or will
not be infringed by the commercial manufacture” of generic
Cubicin.  The injectable antibiotic is being used for patients with
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA, which
doesn’t respond to conventional medicines.  MRSA infections are commonly spread by direct contact with
a skin infection or items such as towels or bandages that have
had contact with an infection, according to the U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention  website .  Cubist asked a judge for a ruling of infringement and an
order to stop Hospira from selling the generic version of the
drug until it loses patent protection.  “Hospira is committed to bringing high-quality, lower-
priced generic alternatives to the market,” said  Daniel Rosenberg , a company spokesman, in an e-mailed message.  Shares of Cubist fell 44 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $39.01
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading in  New York  at 4 p.m.  The case is Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. Hospira Inc.,
12-cv-859, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To see the patent, click: 8,129,342.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  