-- Cumming’s ‘Macbeth’; Tom Murphy’s Grief; 54 Below: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-07-10T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/cumming-s-macbeth-tom-murphy-s-grief-54-below-review.html
Alan Cumming  spends much of
“Macbeth” wearing very little as he roams through a mental
ward’s sickly green chamber.  It’s a creepily sinister place with a metal-frame bed at
one side, a steel stairway up to a door opposite, and,
overlooking it all, an observation window and three TV monitors.  Spycams in the corners record everything.  In a prologue, the Scottish actor strips for two
attendants, a man and woman who appear throughout, mostly in
silence.  They drop his clothes into bags stamped “Evidence.”  As Cumming acts out Macbeth’s bloody, doomed rise to power,
they reappear to give him an injection when things get out of
hand.  Created with directors John Tiffany and Andrew Goldberg,
this  National Theatre of Scotland  production is launching the
 Lincoln Center  Festival.  Cumming -- Eli Gold on “The Good Wife” -- plays all the
roles, including Lady Macbeth during a seductive turn in a bath
tub.  Though some trims have been made, the hour-and-forty-five
minute show is a remarkable -- and remarkably restrained --
display of memory and consideration.  The vocal changes among characters as wide ranging as Mac
and Lady M, Banquo (represented by an apple in Cumming’s hand)
and the weird sisters are minimal. (Each one gets her own TV
screen.)  Dowager Queen  Only with Malcolm do things get show-offish, the regal king
here played more as a dowager queen. What’s ill-considered as
characterization is quite entertaining as performance.  Similarly, the scene in which Lady Macbeth urges her still-
timid husband to dispatch Malcolm is played as a bedroom
seduction, which requires some appealing versatility on
Cumming’s part and is amusingly sexy.  But like the enterprise as a whole, it tells us more about
Cumming than Shakespeare’s savage portrait of power lust.  Gratifying as it is to hear the language of “Macbeth”
spoken with a proper burr, any subtlety and many words are lost
beyond the front rows of the orchestra in Jazz at Lincoln
Center’s Rose Theater. It was instructional to see the show from
the second row of the balcony, where patrons (myself included)
had a hard time seeing, let alone hearing.  Rating: **1/2  Druid/Murphy  The Festival has also imported the  Druid Theatre Company  in
a triptych of plays by  Tom Murphy . The experience over a nine-
hour marathon is the opposite of “Macbeth”: Three plays of
varying quality are given brilliant productions.  Druid is a company of actors working at an astonishingly
high level under the direction of Garry Hynes, a theater genius
whose work is better known here than the playwright she is
presenting.  The best of the three, “A Whistle in the Dark,” is set in
the 1960s. Michael, who escaped his brutish father and goony
older brothers in Ireland, has married an English girl. Now they
must cope with a family visit to their cramped quarters in
Coventry,  England .  Inevitable Explosion  Michael’s determination to retrieve his younger brother
from the clannish violence that fuels the family is as futile as
his impotence in protecting his wife. Bullied by the
hopelessness of it all, Michael inevitably explodes.  A better play than John Osborne’s “Look Back in Anger,”
“Whistle” makes a stronger case for Murphy than the other two
plays, “Conversations on a Homecoming,” set in the 1970s, or
“Famine,” a grim, if earnest slog through the 1840s and the
Irish Potato Famine.  What binds them together is the imaginative grace with
which Hynes allows each show to transcend place, and a company
of stars led by Niall Buggy, many playing multiple roles in all
three plays. Rating: ***  “Macbeth” and “Druid/Murphy” are being performed
through the end of the week. Information: +1-212-875-5766;
 http://www.lincolncenterfestival.org .  Rebecca Luker  The cabaret void left by the shuttering of the Oak Room at
the Algonquin Hotel has been partly filled by the new 54 Below.
The space, all reds, golds and leather, looks more like a set
than an actual club. But it’s inviting enough and the Broadway
crowd has embraced it.  Last week, Rebecca Luker, a golden-voiced soprano, offered
a tribute to Jerome Kern that was as perfect a show as one could
ask for.  It was filled with unknown gems such as “My Husband’s
First Wife,” written with Irene Franklin, as well as gorgeously
delivered standards from “Show Boat” and other musicals,
including “Bill” and “The Way You Look Tonight.”  The menu is well-priced and the food is quite good. The
service, however, needs another tech rehearsal.  The lineup at 54 Below, 254 W. 54th St., changes week to
week. Information:  http://www.54below.com . Rating: ***1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James S. Russell  on architecture
and  Greg Evans  on television.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 