-- CVS, Best Buy Quit Policy Group That Drafts Voter-ID Laws
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-07-10T22:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/cvs-best-buy-quit-policy-group-that-drafts-voter-id-laws.html
Five more companies are ending their
financial support of a public policy group that has worked with
state lawmakers to pass pro-gun ownership and voter-
identification laws, a civil rights group said today.  Deere & Co., (DE)   CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) , SABMiller Plc’s
MillerCoors LLC,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Best Buy Co. Inc. (BBY)  are
no longer supporting the American Legislative Exchange Council,
according to New York-based  ColorofChange.org , which has led
efforts to get corporations to withdraw from the group.  “We want to thank these companies for making the right
decision, and we continue to call on all major corporations to
stop funding ALEC given its involvement in voter suppression and
its work pushing policies designed to benefit rich and powerful
corporations at the expense of people of color, workers and the
environment,” said Rashad Robinson, the civil rights group’s
executive director, in a statement.  A spokeswoman for CVS Caremark,  Carolyn Castel , confirmed
in an e-mail that the Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based company was
ending its involvement with ALEC.  “Over the last few weeks, we have closely followed the
issues surrounding the American Legislative Exchange Council and
have heard from numerous stakeholders expressing their views,”
she said. “As a result, after careful consideration of the
available information, CVS Caremark has discontinued its
membership in ALEC.”  ‘Evaluation Process’  A spokesman for Moline, Illinois-based Deere,  Ken Golden ,
said in an e-mail that the company ended its ALEC membership
“as a result of our evaluation process.”  Best Buy “continually reviews and assesses its memberships
in organizations to ensure efficient use of budget dollars and
to make sure that our participation meets the current needs of
our business,” said Susan Busch, a spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  A spokeswoman for Palo Alto, California-based Hewlett-
Packard, Winnie Lerner, said that the company decided not to
renew its ALEC affiliation “as part of a routine evaluation of
its association memberships last fall.”  MillerCoors didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Around two dozen other companies previously said they were
ending their ALEC support, including  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  Kraft
Foods Inc. (KFT)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , which had representatives
on the group’s Private Enterprise Board.  Kaitlyn Buss, an ALEC spokeswoman, said, “Like any
membership organization, numbers will ebb and flow,” and her
group’s membership is up.  ‘Bully Campaign’  “Many of the ‘victories’ our opponents are claiming are
actually the result of financial realities and other internal
considerations,” Buss said in an e-mail. “And many of the
decisions were made months ago. It’s unfortunate that this
corporate intimidation and bully campaign has gotten the
attention that it has. The reality is it’s politics at its worst
and should be ignored.”  ALEC charges companies as much as $25,000 a year in dues
and enables them to help draft bills that lawmakers then try to
enact in their state legislatures.  The effort to pressure companies into ending their support
of ALEC came after the organization pushed for legislation
allowing individuals who feel threatened to fight back rather
than retreat, known as Stand Your Ground laws; and for laws
requiring photo identification before voting, which the U.S.
 Justice Department  has argued discriminates against minorities.  A Florida version of Stand Your Ground was cited by
authorities in Sanford, Florida, when they didn’t initially
arrest George Zimmerman, who is claiming self-defense in the
killing of teenager Trayvon Martin. Zimmerman later was charged
with second-degree murder.  Voter-ID Laws  Voter-ID laws are touted by proponents as needed to end
voter fraud, though the Brennan Center for Justice at  New York 
University Law School found such fraud occurred 0.00004 percent
of the time in Ohio during the 2004 presidential election.  Enacted by Republican-dominated state legislatures, such
voter-ID laws disproportionately affect groups that tend to vote
Democratic, studies show. The Brennan Center found that 25
percent of voting-age blacks, 16 percent of voting-age Hispanics
and 15 percent of voting-age Americans in households earning
less than $35,000 lack the IDs required by the laws.  The Justice Department has blocked voter-ID laws in Texas
and  South Carolina , saying the measures unfairly burdened
minority voters.  ALEC has since disbanded the  task force  that drafted the
Stand Your Ground and voter-ID legislation and said it would
focus exclusively on economic issues.  Common Cause , a Washington-based public policy advocacy
group, has asked the  Internal Revenue Service  to investigate
whether ALEC is entitled to its tax-exempt status, insisting
instead that it is a lobbying organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 