-- Democrats to Risk Fiscal Cliff by Targeting Top Earners
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-07-10T13:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/democrats-to-risk-fiscal-cliff-by-targeting-top-earners.html
Congressional Democrats have
developed a get-tough strategy to try to force Republicans to go
along with President  Barack Obama ’s call for higher taxes for
the wealthiest Americans.  Democrats say they are prepared to go over the so-called
 fiscal cliff  at the end of the year if Republicans continue
their opposition to more revenue from top earners, allowing the
George W. Bush-era tax cuts to temporarily expire for everyone
on Dec. 31 and accepting scheduled spending reductions,
including for Pentagon programs favored by Republicans.  Democrats who say their party blinked two years ago by not
separating lower rates for the richest taxpayers from those for
the middle class maintain they have the leverage to prevail this
time, saying no deal on taxes and spending would be better than
a bad deal.  Obama telegraphed the approach yesterday through his
spokesman  Jay Carney , who said the president would veto a bill
to extend lower tax rates for the richest Americans. Democrats
say it’s part of their drive to underscore that the main area of
disagreement between the two parties is over continuing tax
breaks for the nation’s highest earners.  “Republicans have been mindlessly lockstep against putting
any new revenues on the table, and until they do, there will be
no deal,” said Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Louisiana Democrat.  Senate Democratic leaders  Harry Reid  and  Charles Schumer 
have been resolute in recent caucus meetings, warning members
against voting for a compromise that fails to include tax
sacrifice from the nation’s highest earners, according to
leadership aides.  ‘Republicans’ Choice’  Maryland Representative  Chris Van Hollen , the top Democrat
on the House Budget Committee, said talks will go into 2013 if
there’s no agreement on revenue. “This is the Republicans’
choice, either they can provide tax relief to 99 percent of the
American people or we’ll get it done after the end of the
year,” he said in an interview.  It’s the same dynamic, with Republicans spurning tax
increases and Democrats insisting that the wealthy pay more,
that’s been at play in every fiscal battle since Republicans won
control of the U.S. House two years ago. Anti-tax Tea Party
lawmakers had the leverage in 2011 as they brushed aside
warnings about a  debt  default and Armageddon-like economic
fallout if Congress blew its August deadline.  Upper Hand  This year, Democrats say they have the upper hand because
they’ll allow more than $600 billion in tax increases and
spending reductions to temporarily take effect in January rather
than accept another deal with no tax increases, according to the
leadership aides.  They didn’t want to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to publicly discuss the Democratic strategy. The idea
is that, if Republicans refuse to budge in negotiations to avert
a so-called fiscal cliff following the November election,
Democrats will quickly force them into a New Year compromise on
tax cuts for families making less than $250,000 a year that
would be made retroactive to Jan. 1, avoiding the type of
economic risk that accompanied the debt-ceiling showdown.  Republicans view the Democratic approach as an
unsustainable negotiating position and a bluff, according to a
House Republican leadership aide.  Representative  Jim Jordan  of Ohio, chairman of the
Republican Study Committee, said Republicans also are willing to
allow the lower tax rates to lapse if it leads to a better deal
for them in early 2013. That assumes the presumptive Republican
presidential nominee,  Mitt Romney , wins the November election.  ‘Fix It’  “We have to be willing to tell the Democrats ‘OK,’” he
said at a Bloomberg Government breakfast today. “The bad news
is you’ve got to tell business owners out there ‘OK, you’re
going to have a tax increase on Jan. 1, but come February, March
we’re going to fix it.’”  In a June 29 interview on Bloomberg Television, House
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia called talks about the
fiscal cliff a “one-way discussion,” saying Democrats aren’t
serious about a compromise.  Democrats will need Republican cooperation as Congress
faces another debt-ceiling increase about the time the tax cuts
are set to expire. House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio has said
he won’t permit a debt increase without a larger amount of
spending cuts.  January Showdown  Democrats are adamant that they don’t favor a January
showdown, though they say allowing the tax cuts to expire and
the spending cuts to begin may be unavoidable to push
Republicans to accept revenue increases. They say this wouldn’t
risk economic damage, if both parties compromise by early
February.  So far, there are few signs of an agreement to replace the
automatic cuts -- half of which will affect defense programs --
or a deal on taxes before the election, with leaders on both
sides blaming the other for a lack of progress.  “If Republicans want to walk away from the bipartisan
spending cuts agreed to last August, they will have to work with
Democrats to replace them with a balanced deficit-reduction
package that asks millionaires to pay their fair share,” Reid
said in a statement to Bloomberg.  Obama’s Decision  Democrats say their position was born of frustration over
Obama’s decision in 2010 to allow a blanket extension of the
2001 and 2003 tax cuts without revenue concessions from
Republicans and a deal between Obama and congressional
Republicans in July 2011 to raise the nation’s borrowing limit
that included spending cuts and no tax increases.  Tea Party leaders called the predictions of credit
downgrades and interest-rate spikes fear mongering, and in the
end, their strategy proved mostly successful as  House
Republicans  won the last-minute agreement with Democrats. Still,
the Tea Party allies had wanted far deeper cuts.  “Having moments when we blinked on core pieces of fiscal
policy and the other caucus did not is what got us here,” said
Senator Christopher Coons, a Delaware Democrat who said revenues
and changes to entitlement programs are critical to reaching an
agreement this year.  The Budget Control Act of 2011 put in place an automatic
spending-cut mechanism that would trigger if Congress doesn’t
reduce the deficit by an additional $1.2 trillion over 10 years.
The reductions set to take effect in 2013 would be split, with
$500 billion in defense cuts and $700 billion in reductions to
non-defense programs.  Economic Fallout  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  has issued a
report saying the economy would shrink by 1.3 percent in the
first half of next year if the higher tax rates and more than
$100 billion in automatic cuts are kept in place. The economy
would rebound at a 2.3 percent growth rate in the second half of
the year, according to the CBO.  Republicans, for their part, point to recent comments from
some Democrats taking a different approach, including former
President  Bill Clinton , who said June 5 on CNBC’s “Closing
Bell” that extending tax rates is “probably the best thing to
do right now.”  Some Democrats may agree at the end of the year to buy
negotiating time by putting off the automatic cuts and tax
changes until March or later. There have been discussions among
House and Senate lawmakers about funding the government through
a stopgap measure that would include such a delay.  ‘Down Economy’  “Remember, it was the president who said you don’t raise
taxes in a down economy,” said  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican and Senate Minority Leader, in a statement referring
to Obama.  “Well, the economy is  slower  now than it was when we last
extended all of the rates,” he said. “So why on earth does the
president and his Democrat allies in Congress want to raise
taxes and make it harder for the economy to grow, job creators
to hire, and families to make ends meet?”  Democrats received backing for their stance from the
Democrat-aligned  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities  in
Washington, which issued a paper last month maintaining that the
budget office forecast is misinterpreted and that Democrats
shouldn’t be pressured by recession worries into a making
another bad deal. The coming crisis is akin to a fiscal slope,
not a cliff, the group’s paper said.  ‘Erroneous Belief’  “Policy makers should not make budget decisions with long-
term consequences based on an erroneous belief: that the economy
will immediately plunge into a recession early next year if the
tax and spending changes required under current law actually
take effect on Jan. 2,” the paper said, citing the potential
for a delay until early February. “That modest delay could
produce a policy that is better for the economy over the mid-and
long-term than another extension of current tax and spending
policies.”  If lower tax rates expire on Dec. 31, lawmakers would have
a new tax baseline in January that would free Republicans from
an anti-tax-increase pledge.  Grover Norquist , the president of
Americans for  Tax Reform , met with about 100 staff members and
20 House Republicans last month.  The pledge has become a rite of passage for many
Republicans and is viewed as an impediment to a compromise on
raising revenue. If all of the tax rates expire, any new  tax
policy  would technically be scored as a  tax cut , not a tax
increase. Then new rates could be made retroactive, wiping out
tax increases for middle and lower-income earners.  Also, some Democrats say the automatic spending cuts would
be preferable to another agreement with Republicans that lacks
revenue.  If the cuts go into effect, in 2016 non-defense
discretionary programs would have $37 billion less in funding
than the current projected levels for that year, according to
the CBPP. By comparison, in the budget crafted by House
Republican Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , those programs
in 2016 would be cut by $121 billion.  Senator  Dick Durbin  of Illinois, the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat, said it may take the risk of a fiscal calamity
to provoke a deal that includes higher revenue.  “The idea is to bring both sides to the table with a sense
of foreboding, that if we don’t reach agreements that are not
altogether comfortable on either side of the table that terrible
things will occur,” he said, without indicating if he endorses
this approach.  To contact the reporters on this story: Heidi Przybyla in
Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  