-- Diamond Offers to Rebut Claims He Misled U.K. Lawmakers
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y ,   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-07-11T16:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/diamond-offers-to-rebut-unfair-charges-he-misled-parliament.html
Former  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  offered to return to U.K. Parliament to
challenge lawmakers who said he wasn’t telling the truth about
the bank’s relationship with regulators.  “The comments made at today’s hearing have had a terribly
unfair impact upon my reputation, which is of paramount concern
to me,” Diamond said in a letter yesterday evening to  Andrew Tyrie , chairman of the Treasury Committee. “I look forward to
discussing this issue with you further if you wish to do so.”  Lawmakers accused Diamond, 60, of misleading Parliament
when he didn’t disclose criticism from the  Financial Services
Authority  that Barclays exhibited “a pattern of behavior” in
an attempt to exploit accounting loopholes and game regulations.
FSA Chairman  Adair Turner  said in an April letter to Barclays
Chairman Marcus Agius that trust had been eroded by the bank’s
approach to tax, regulation and accounting.  Turner’s letter revealed pressure had been building on
Diamond for years before the bank’s admission that it attempted
to manipulate the London interbank offered rate, the global
benchmark for $360 trillion of securities. The letter cited
concerns the FSA had about Barclays’s methods to meet regulatory
 capital requirements .  The Libor fine was “the straw that broke the camel’s
back,” Gary Greenwood, a banking analyst at Shore Capital Group
Ltd. in Liverpool,  England , said in an interview. “They’ve been
gunning for Barclays for a while and looking for an excuse and
this is it.”  Diamond’s Letter  In his letter to Tyrie yesterday, Diamond said he was only
asked by the committee about the period from September 2010 to
February 2012. He wasn’t asked about the April correspondence or
a meeting between Turner and Agius that month, Diamond wrote.  Andrew Bailey , the FSA’s head of banking supervision,
discussed the concerns over London-based Barclays’s
“aggressive” interpretation of regulation and use of
accounting ploys at a Barclays board meeting on Feb. 9, Turner
said in the letter.  “It’s the level of seniority and the language in the
letter that show the FSA’s concerns,” Ian Mason, a former
director of the regulator’s enforcement division and now an
editor at the  Practical Law Co. , said in an interview. “The FSA
chairman is a busy guy -- he’s not going to be writing to the
CEOs of all the firms.”  Diamond’s Testimony  A Barclays spokesman declined to comment yesterday.
Barclays’s  shares  closed down 1.4 percent at 164.65 pence in
London trading, giving the company a market value of 20.1
billion pounds ($31.2 billion).  Ex-Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier will testify
to lawmakers on July 16, the Treasury Committee said today.  Diamond was asked repeatedly about the bank’s relationship
with the FSA at a Treasury Committee hearing on July 4, a day
after he resigned as CEO. Barclays was fined a record 290
million pounds June 27 for attempting to rig interest rates.  The U.K.’s highest-paid bank CEO didn’t mention the FSA’s
criticisms as detailed in Turner’s letter. The bank’s management
was “something they were specifically happy with,” Diamond
testified.  “Didn’t they tell you that trust is breaking down between
the FSA and Barclays?” Tyrie, the committee chairman, asked.  “I don’t recall that in the February meeting,” Diamond
said.  “Didn’t they tell you that they no longer have confidence
in your senior executive management team?” Tyrie asked.  ‘No, sir’  “No, sir,” Diamond said.  “Wasn’t all this fronted up with a letter?” Tyrie asked,
before the Turner letter was released to the public. Diamond
replied that the FSA raised that there “were some culture
issues” and some “push back” from the bank on certain
discussions with the regulator.  “Diamond lied to the committee,” David Ruffley, a
committee member from the U.K.’s ruling  Conservative Party , said
at yesterday’s hearing.  John Mann , a fellow committee member and
lawmaker from the opposition  Labour Party , said Diamond should
be recalled to give more evidence.  British lawmakers’ power to punish people they conclude
have misled them is unclear. Parliament’s Standards and
Privileges Committee is still considering what action to take
against three former News Corp. executives whom the Culture
Committee concluded misled it over phone-hacking. Historical
powers to jail people guilty of contempt of Parliament haven’t
been used in more than a century.  ‘Right Decision’  Diamond resigned “because it became clear he lost the
support of his regulators,” Agius said in the Treasury
Committee hearing yesterday. Agius recounted how he met with
 Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  at 6 p.m. on July 2, the
day Agius himself announced his intention to resign.  King “was saying he had no power to direct us, but he felt
it was sufficiently important for us to be told in absolute
terms what the situation was,” said Agius, who subsequently
called Diamond with the news. “The conversation was not long.
He went to talk to his family. We were confident that he would
make the right decision.”  Diamond was handed a “loaded revolver,” said Tyrie.  While Agius said he was “shocked” by King’s assertion,
Turner’s April letter, which doesn’t mention Libor, reveals a
breakdown in the relationship between Barclays and the FSA due
to the bank’s attempts to boost capital.  “Barclays often seems to be seeking to gain advantage
through the use of complex structures or through arguing for
regulatory approaches which are at the aggressive end of
interpretation of the relevant rules and regulations,” the
letter said.  Protium Deal  Turner said Barclays’s Protium transaction in 2009, which
involved moving the riskiest assets off its balance sheet using
a Cayman Islands-based fund run by former executives, was a
“convoluted attempt to portray a favorable accounting result.”  The bank also gave a “confusing and potentially misleading
impression” that it had a core Tier 1 capital ratio of more
than 10 percent under stress tests conducted by the European
Banking Authority last year, Turner said. The lender actually
held a 9.8 percent ratio, he said.  “This is a very important letter and one that we took very
seriously,” Agius said. “I have not had another letter as
serious as this.”  Barclays avoided the fates of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Northern Rock Plc and Bradford &
Bingley Plc, which were either bailed out by the U.K. government
or nationalized in the financial crisis of 2008. At the time,
there was concern Barclays was “next in line,” Bank of England
Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  told the committee on July 9.  Barclays’s Capital  “Barclays on a Basel III basis looks relatively weakly
capitalized versus the other banks, although like the others
it’s making progress,” said Greenwood, the Shore Capital
analyst. “The incentive to overstate capital is to avoid a
forced recapitalization.”  Barclays raised 7 billion pounds of capital from investors
including  Abu Dhabi  and Qatar sovereign wealth funds in November
2008, helping the bank avoid a government bailout. The bank also
sold  Barclays Global Investors  to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  for $15.2
billion in 2009.  Regulators weren’t consistent in how they presented their
views on Barclays’s senior management, Agius said yesterday.
“We went from Wednesday night, when Diamond had the support of
the regulators, to Monday night, when he did not have the
support of the regulators,” he said.  Libor Investigation  Barclays was the first to cooperate “in a meaningful way”
in the  Libor probe , the  U.S. Justice Department  said last month.
The bank’s cooperation was “extraordinary” and exceeded
competitors’ levels of assistance, it said. The bank “took
comfort” from the FSA not finding Diamond culpable for
attempting to manipulate Libor, Agius said.  The list of Barclays’s clashes with the U.K. government and
regulators is growing. The bank, along with Lloyds, RBS and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , last month agreed to compensate small businesses
for improperly sold interest-rate derivatives. That comes on top
of fines for attempted Libor manipulation, mis-sold loan
insurance and bad investment advice. The company was also
required to shut down tax-avoidance loopholes deemed “highly
abusive” by the U.K. Treasury.  “All this makes it less likely Diamond’s successor is an
insider,”  Simon Willis , an analyst at Daniel Stewart Securities
Plc in London, said in an interview “It’s a reasonable
conclusion that the next CEO is going to be someone who plays it
straight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  