-- Dictator’s Daughter Park Runs in S. Korea Presidential Race
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-07-10T06:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/dictator-s-daughter-park-runs-in-south-korea-presidential-race.html
Park Geun Hye, whose father ruled
 South Korea  as dictator for 18 years, said she will run in
December’s presidential election in a bid to become the
country’s first female leader.  Park, 60, made her declaration today in a televised speech
to a crowd at an outdoor shopping mall in Seoul. The leader in
opinion polls for the last three months, she will compete with
fellow ruling New Frontier Party lawmakers for the nomination at
an Aug. 20 party primary to succeed President  Lee Myung Bak .  “We need fundamental change,” Park said at the rally.
“In the past, national development led to people’s happiness
but now the link between national growth and improvement in
people’s lives has been severed.”  The NFP retained control of parliament in an upset win in
April engineered by Park, giving her and the party momentum
heading into the presidential race. Lee’s approval rating has
more than halved since taking office, and his successor faces
pressure to raise wages and increase welfare spending.  The veteran politician’s greatest asset is her background
as the eldest daughter of late President Park Chung Hee, who
oversaw the country’s economic transformation during his
1961-1979 military dictatorship. She served as acting first lady
starting at 22 years old after her mother was assassinated.  Economic Policies  Park has indicated she might veer from her conservative
party’s economic policies in response to growing dissatisfaction
over rising income disparity and youth unemployment. Today, she
listed her top priorities as overcoming the wealth gap, creating
jobs and strengthening the welfare system.  The nation’s top 20 percent earned 7.86 times more than
those in the bottom 20 percent last year, the biggest gap since
2006 when  Statistics Korea  began to survey  household income  by
five brackets. The ratio has continued to rise from 6.65 in
2006, according to the Statistics Korea database.  At the same time, income disparity, as measured by the Gini
coefficient, has been going up since 2009 when it reached the
average for the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. The share of population living on less than half of
the median income rose to 15 percent by 2008, the seventh-
highest in the OECD area.  Main Rivals  Park’s main rivals are expected to be Moon Jae In, a human-
rights lawyer with the opposition Democratic United Party who
was jailed in 1975 for participating in street protests against
the elder Park’s rule, and software magnate Ahn Cheol Soo, an
independent whose business success and donations to charity have
won him support from younger voters. Moon declared his candidacy
on June 18. Ahn has yet to declare.  Park’s popularity stands at 40.9 percent versus Ahn’s 20.6
percent and Moon’s 15.6 percent, according to a July 2-6 survey
of 3,750 people by Seoul-based Realmeter. The telephone poll had
a margin of error plus or minus 1.6 percentage points.  Her party has struggled to overcome a series of scandals,
including a bribery investigation that forced the resignation of
the speaker of the National Assembly. Prosecutors questioned
Lee’s brother, Lee Sang Deuk,  last week under an investigation
into a savings bank bribery case that resulted in indictments of
almost 200 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  