-- Dodging Bubble Means Canada Economy Loses Edge
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-07-10T12:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/dodging-bubble-means-canada-economy-loses-edge-mortgages.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s efforts to avert a housing bubble are hastening the
end of a six-year streak of outperforming the U.S. economy.  Changes  implemented yesterday include shortening the
maximum length of government-insured mortgages to 25 years from
30 years to quell demand for new homes and curb record household
borrowing that Flaherty said has become a greater risk to the
economy than slowing growth.  The rule changes make it harder for some buyers to qualify
for mortgages. Ebbing demand for homes removes one more driver
from the world’s 10th largest economy, said  Douglas Porter ,
deputy chief economist at  Bank of Montreal. (BMO)  Residential
construction was the fastest expanding segment in the first
quarter, responsible for almost half of  Canada ’s 1.9 percent
growth as consumer and  government spending  slowed.  “Basically the consumer is all tapped out, the housing
market has no room to grow, we’re seeing fiscal restraint,”
Porter said. “It’s very difficult to imagine Canada outpacing
the  U.S. economy  in growth terms.”  Canada’s economy is projected to grow by 2.1 percent this
year, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg, down from a
pace of 2.4 percent in 2011 and 3.2 percent in 2010. U.S. growth
will accelerate to 2.2 percent from 1.7 percent last year,
economists project, marking the first time since 2005 Canada has
lagged its biggest trading partner. Canada’s  average growth  of
0.9 percent since 2008 topped the Group of Seven.  Market Impact  The new mortgage rules, coupled with steps taken by the
country’s banking regulator to tighten mortgage lending
standards, have the same impact in the real estate market as a
1.5 to 2 percentage-point increase in interest rates,  David Tulk , chief Canada macro strategist at TD Securities in Toronto,
estimated. The changes will reduce growth by 0.1 percentage
points this year and 0.2 points in 2013, Tulk said.  Slowing household spending will lessen the risks posed by
an overreliance on household debt to the country’s banking
system, which was judged the world’s soundest by Geneva-based
 World Economic Forum  for four straight years. Moody’s Investors
Service cited the changes as being positive for banks such as
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and  Toronto-Dominion Bank. (TD)   Household debt relative to disposable income rose to a
record 154.3 percent in the first quarter, with Canadian debt
levels surpassing those in the U.S. and the U.K.  Canada relied on household spending and government stimulus
to emerge from recession in 2009, with business spending and
 residential construction  sustaining the recovery over the past
two years. The G-7’s soundest fiscal record allowed Harper and
his provincial counterparts to boost government spending to more
than one-quarter of the economy for the first time in 15 years.  Still Lending  A financial system that didn’t experience  bank failures 
continued to lend at historically low  interest rates  after the
recession, lifting the stock of home mortgages to a record and
boosting  consumer spending  as a share of output to the highest
in decades.  The recovery allowed Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  to boast
in his 2011 election campaign that Canada was the “closest
thing the world has to an island of security and stability.”
That election gave Canada’s Conservatives their first  electoral
majority  since 1988.  The economy also made global investors take notice. The
country received C$326 billion in net capital flows in the three
years between 2009 and 2011, more than the previous 15 years
combined, while the Canadian dollar gained 38 percent between
March 2009 and July 2011 against its U.S. counterpart.  ‘Policy Responses’  “I wouldn’t call it Canadian exceptionalism, I would say
we had much better initial conditions,” said Ed Devlin, head of
the Canadian portfolio management team at Pacific Investment
Management Co., the world’s largest bond fund manager. The
country also got “very good policy responses both from the
monetary and fiscal side.”  There’s been less for Harper to boast about in 2012.  Canada’s benchmark  stock index  is underperforming U.S.
equities for a second year after seven years of stronger gains,
which BMO’s Porter said reflects in part expectations the
country’s economy will lag, and the Canadian dollar has come
down 7.5 percent from its 2011 highs.  Unlike previous recessions, Canada hasn’t been able to rely
on a recovery in export markets to drive its expansion. Even
after a 13 percent rise since the end of 2009, the volume of
exports remains 6.9 percent below pre-recession highs. Imports
in the first quarter were 3.1 percent above pre-recession highs.  Canadians had already been reining in their demand for debt
even before the measures. Household credit in April rose 5.6
percent from a year earlier, the slowest pace in a decade, while
personal expenditures grew 1.9 percent in the first quarter from
a year earlier, the slowest since 2009.  Sales Decline  Toronto realtors recorded a 5.4 percent decline in the sale
of existing homes last month from a year earlier, while sales in
 Vancouver  fell 28 percent, according to realtor data released
last week.  Governments have also become a drag, with state spending
dropping five straight quarters. Cracks in the country’s fiscal
reputation are beginning to show, as Moody’s downgraded
Ontario’s bonds in April.  Businesses, meanwhile, have shown to be much more risk-
averse than the country’s households after they were squeezed by
banks during the recession, said Gerry Price of Winnipeg-based
E.H. Price Limited, which manufacturers air distribution systems
for non-residential construction. Companies are wary of relying
on debt financing, he said.  “We just prefer to be masters of our own destiny,” Price,
the company’s president, said in a telephone interview. “It
slows us down just a bit, but it’s probably worth it in the long
run.”  Bank Survey  The reticence comes even as banks have tightened credit
over the past three months, according to the Bank of Canada’s
quarterly business outlook survey.  Non-financial companies have reduced their debt-to-equity
ratio to 0.887 percent in the first quarter, the lowest since at
least 1988, Statistics Canada data show.  The news isn’t all bad for Canada’s economy. With
government finances still the best in the G-7, the country won’t
need as much austerity as others to rein in its deficits,
according to IMF projections. Wages and employment continue to
grow, supporting spending even as households take on less debt.
Canadian employers have added  155,500 jobs  since February and
earnings are growing at the fastest pace in almost three years.  Housing Starts  Flaherty’s latest attempt to cool the country’s surging
housing market may prove ineffective unless  interest rates  rise.
Flaherty tightened mortgage rules three times before yesterday’s
changes and in each case the market continued to grow. Canadian
builders began construction on a seasonally adjusted annual pace
of 222,700 homes in June, the Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp.
said in a report today, compared with an average 197,650 over
the past two years.  “Growth isn’t the be-all and end-all,” Porter said. A
faster economy in the U.S. “doesn’t mean Canadian
exceptionalism has completely gone away.”  Harper also is acting to speed up business investment,
reducing regulatory hurdles for infrastructure projects and
boosting outlays on research and development.  Spending on  machinery and equipment  and non-residential
construction, while slowing, has increased by an average 12.5
percent over the past seven quarters and is up 28 percent since
the end of 2009.  More Financing  There also are some signs businesses are beginning to seek
more financing. Business credit growth has averaged 5.4 percent
over the past 12 months through May, compared with 3.2 percent
the previous 12-month period.  Canada’s relatively balanced economy means risks are
smaller than elsewhere, even if growth is tepid, according to
Pimco’s Devlin.  “I like Canada’s composition of growth a heck of a lot
better than the U.S., facing its fiscal situation,” said
Devlin, who helps manage more than $11 billion in Canadian
assets. “I like it better than  Europe . I like it better than
the U.K.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 