-- Dubai Shares Fall to Week Low as Oil Drops on China; Qatar Gains
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-07-10T13:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/dubai-shares-fall-to-week-low-as-oil-drops-on-china-qatar-gains.html
Dubai’s  benchmark stock index  fell
to the lowest in more than a week as oil prices dropped after
trade data signaled that growth in  China , the world’s second-
biggest oil consumer, is slowing.  Dubai Investments PJSC (DIC) , which owns stakes in 40 businesses,
declined to the lowest level this month.  Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA) , a
Dubai-based investment bank, closed at the lowest since
February. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  lost 0.2 percent to 1,488.39,
the lowest since July 2, at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Commerzbank AG and Standard Bank
Group Ltd. abandoned talks with Dubai Group to restructure $10
billion of debt after failing to reach an agreement, two people
familiar with the matter said.  “There’s pressure from global markets and regional
markets,” said Chahir Hosni, equity sales manager at EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE in Dubai. “Sentiment is not that great.”  The Bloomberg GCC 200 Index fell 0.3 percent and Saudi
Arabia’s Tadawul All Share Index lost 0.7 percent.  Oil prices ,
the main source of government revenue in the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council, dropped for a third time in four days to
85.37 a barrel, declining as much as 1.6 percent to $84.62 a
barrel. China’s stocks fell, dragging the benchmark index down
to a six-month low, after a government report showed imports
rose less than anticipated in June while export growth slowed.  Dubai Debt  Dubai Investments dropped 2.4 percent to 69 fils, the
lowest since June 27. Shuaa retreated 2.5 percent to 62.5 fils,
the lowest since Feb. 9. There are 100 fils to the dirham.  Dubai Group, controlled by Dubai Holding LLC, is among
several government-owned companies in the Middle Eastern emirate
seeking to restructure loans after property and asset values
slumped and credit markets froze. The breakdown in talks comes
after Dubai International Capital LLC reached an agreement with
lenders to change terms on $2.5 billion of debt in April and
Drydocks World LLC said creditors support restructuring plans.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  and Bahrain’s All Share gauge
fell 0.2 percent, while Oman’s MSM30 Index lost 0.7 percent.
Kuwait’s SE Index measure gained 0.2 percent and Qatar’s QE
Index rose 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  