-- Duke’s Rogers to Explain CEO Changes to North Carolina
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2012-07-10T15:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/duke-s-rogers-to-explain-ceo-changes-to-north-carolina.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer James Rogers is scheduled to speak publicly
for the first time about the unexpected leadership change as the
largest U.S. utility owner closed its $17.8 billion takeover of
Progress Energy Inc.  Rogers will be the only witness at a North Carolina
Utilities Commission hearing today investigating Duke’s decision
to oust Progress Energy CEO  Bill Johnson  as head of the combined
company. One day after the deal closed, Johnson resigned and was
replaced by Rogers, who was slated to become executive chairman
under terms of the merger agreement.  The executive-suite shuffle caused  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Duke’s shares to decline, put the company on
 Standard & Poor’s  negative credit watch and prompted
investigations into whether it misled regulators. Four former
Progress board members said they would have voted against the
takeover had they known that Rogers would remain in charge.  “While the board’s decision to dismiss Mr. Johnson and
hand the reigns to Mr. Rogers may be as simple as an ego-
motivated power play, we suspect there’s more to it than that,”
Philip Adams, an analyst with Gimme Credit LLC, wrote in a
report yesterday.  Duke’s board may have disliked Johnson’s handling of a
shuttered Florida nuclear plant, whose multibillion-dollar
repair bill was disclosed after the merger was announced, Adams
wrote. Another factor may have been the merger’s 18-month
review, delayed after federal regulators rejected an initial
plan to address antitrust concerns, he said.  Carolina Regulators  While CEO shake-ups are rare following major mergers, they
aren’t unprecedented, Adams said. Hugh McColl “pushed out”
David Coulter as CEO of Bank of America Corp. shortly after it
was acquired by Charlotte, North Carolina-based Nationsbank
Corp. in 1998, Adams said in the report.  North Carolina  regulators, who approved the merger June 29,
want to know if Duke and Progress misled the commission when
they filed an employment agreement stating that Johnson would be
CEO, according to a  July 6 filing . The commission is holding a
hearing that begins at 2 p.m. local time in Raleigh, North
Carolina.  State law gives the right to rescind or alter prior
decisions, Sam Watson, the commission’s general counsel, said in
a telephone interview yesterday.  ‘Unwinding’ Merger  “I’ve never seen anything like this,” Christopher Ayers,
a Raleigh-based partner at law firm Poyner Spruill LLP who has
represented companies at the commission, said in a phone
interview yesterday. The commission is “seriously considering
whether or not there was misrepresentation or false information
that would lead to unwinding the deal.”  North Carolina Attorney General Roy Cooper is also
investigating whether Duke misled regulators or customers to
gain approval for the merger and win a rate increase, according
to a July 6 statement.  “Boards always have a right to change players, that’s
implicit in any transaction,”  Charles Elson , a professor at the
 University of Delaware  who specializes in corporate governance,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Transparency in this
matter is critical.”  Duke rose 5 cents to $65.36 at 10:28 a.m. in  New York . The
shares have  fallen  6.4 percent since July 2, the day before the
CEO switch was announced. The company is the worst performer for
the past eight days on the Standard and Poor’s 500 Utilities
Sector Index, which has declined 1.5 percent during that period.  Employee Meeting  Johnson is eligible for as much as $44.7 million in cash
and stock on his exit from the company. Rogers plans to explain
the executive changes to employees during a town hall meeting
tomorrow in Raleigh, where Progress was based,  Tom Williams , a
Duke spokesman, said in a phone interview yesterday.  The merger was announced in January 2011 and completed on
July 2 after receiving state and federal approvals.  The new Duke board met in an executive session without
Rogers or Johnson and decided on the switch shortly after the
transaction closed, Rogers said in a July 3 interview. Under
terms of the merger, the board is composed of 11 Duke
representatives and seven from Progress.  “I do not believe that a single director of Progress would
have voted for this transaction as structured with the knowledge
that the CEO of Duke,  Jim Rogers , would remain as the CEO of the
combined company,” John Mullin, a former Progress board member,
wrote in a July 5 letter to the Wall Street Journal.  ‘Regulatory Quagmire’  Three other former directors, James Bostic Jr., Alfred Tollison and Charles Pryor Jr., have also said they would have
opposed the deal with Rogers as CEO.  It’s improbable that the board made the CEO change “simply
because Jim Rogers had second thoughts about giving up his role
as CEO,” a group of Stanford C. Bernstein analysts led by  Hugh Wynne  wrote in a note for clients yesterday.  The company faces a six- to 12-month “legal and regulatory
quagmire” for its actions, according to the note. “We doubt
that Duke’s board would have replaced Johnson, and assumed the
consequent legal risks, without a compelling and legally
defensible reason.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in New York at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  