-- DuPont Hid Failure of Soybeans for Years, Monsanto Says
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-07-10T21:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/dupont-hid-failure-of-soybeans-for-years-monsanto-says.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the most valuable U.S.
chemical company, didn’t tell investors for years that efforts
to develop its own herbicide-tolerant soybean seeds had failed,
Monsanto Co. told a jury at the start of a patent trial.  DuPont knew as early as 2006 that its GAT soybeans didn’t
grow as well as Monsanto’s Roundup Ready beans and didn’t make
the information public until 2009, George C. Lombardi, an
attorney for Monsanto, said today at the start of a patent trial
in St. Louis. Monsanto is suing DuPont for adding the Roundup
Ready trait to make its product work, a patent infringement it
said is worth as much as $1 billion.  “For years, they told the world GAT was going to work,”
Lombardi, a Chicago-based lawyer with Winston & Strawn LLP, told
the jury in Monsanto’s opening arguments. “When it failed, they
relied on the Roundup Ready product.”  DuPont claims there was no infringement because St. Louis-
based Monsanto got the Roundup Ready patent fraudulently.
Monsanto intentionally withheld information about the genetic
sequence that made its Roundup Ready technology work from the
 U.S. Patent and Trademark Office , said Leora Ben-Ami, a DuPont
lawyer. That makes that patent invalid and unenforceable, she
said.  “Monsanto didn’t want people to know what was inside the
bag, what was inside the seed,” Ben-Ami, a New York-based
lawyer with Kirkland & Ellis LLP, told the jury. “Monsanto
didn’t want people to know how the seed was made.”  Soybean Sales  The Roundup Ready trait is engineered into more than 95
percent of soybeans, largely through licensing agreements,
generating $22 billion of revenue over eight years for Monsanto
and the more than 200 seed companies that license the
technology, Lombardi said. The technology drove $6 billion in
soybean seed sales for DuPont’s Pioneer unit in that time, he
said.  The Roundup Ready trait, introduced by  Monsanto (MON)  16 years
ago, allows crops to survive applications of glyphosate,
marketed by Monsanto as Roundup, the world’s best-selling
weedkiller. DuPont’s GAT seeds were developed to tolerate
glyphosate and other weedkillers.  DuPont in 2008 developed hundreds of seed lines as it got
ready to begin selling GAT soybeans that included the Roundup
Ready trait, Lombardi said. That violated the companies’ 2002
licensing agreement that prohibited combining the Roundup Ready
trait with a second trait that also allows plants to tolerate
glyphosate, he said. It also violated the company’s patent,
Lombardi said.  Head Start  Monsanto sued in 2009 to block the combination.  Infringing the patent in 2008 gave DuPont a six-year head
start on the 2014 expiration of the Roundup Ready patent,
Lombardi said. DuPont expected to generate $3 billion of revenue
from the GAT soybean seed over those six years, which translates
into $800 million to a $1 billion in damages to Monsanto, he
said.  Ben-Ami acknowledged the GAT soybean seed had performance
problems during severe stress, such as drought. The company,
based in Wilmington,  Delaware , contends the legal fight caused
it to cancel plans to introduce its GAT corn and soybeans.  DuPont said Monsanto uses monopoly power to stifle
innovation, restricting use of the Roundup Ready trait while
making it difficult for  competitors  to develop a competing
trait. Those antitrust claims have been split off into a
separate case, with a trial scheduled for April.  The case is Monsanto Co. v. E.I. duPont de Nemours & Co.,
09cv686, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
 Missouri  ( St. Louis ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in St. Louis at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  