-- Mead Johnson Declines on Chinese Report of Additive
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-07-10T20:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/mead-johnson-declines-on-chinese-report-of-additive.html
Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) , maker of
the world’s best-selling baby formula, fell to its lowest price
since February after a Chinese magazine said a prohibited
additive was found in two batches of the company’s products.  The stock sank 4.3 percent to $75.29 at the close of  New
York  trading.  Caijing Magazine in Beijing  reported  that the flavor
additive vanillin, which the publication said can harm babies’
livers and kidneys, was found in batches of formula produced in
October and April. Gail Wood, a spokeswoman for Glenview,
Illinois-based Mead Johnson, said the company can’t verify the
report’s accuracy and is reaching out to Chinese regulators.  “We do not add vanillin to any of our stage 1 products,”
which are for infants up to 6 months old, Wood said today in a
telephone interview. “We’re approaching the testing
organization to understand their methodology and process.”  Mead Johnson, which makes the Enfamil line of formulas,
does use vanillin in some products for older children, Wood
said. She said she wasn’t sure whether the additive was used in
the factory that produced the  infant formula  alleged to be
contaminated. The company has “over 2,300 quality control and
safety checks” to prevent cross-contamination, she said, and
all batches are inspected before they’re distributed.  Abbott, Pfizer  The magazine said the additive was also found in formula
made by  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Wyeth unit. Pfizer
fell less than 1 percent to $22.44, while Abbott gained less
than 1 percent to $65.67.  Abbott doesn’t add vanillin or other flavors to stage 1
infant formula sold in China, spokeswoman Jennifer Smoter said
in an e-mail. Pfizer also doesn’t use vanillin in stage 1 infant
formulas, said Pfizer spokesman MacKay Jimeson.  “We are concerned about the accuracy of this report and we
do not agree with the findings,” Jimeson said in an e-mail.  Mead Johnson’s Enfamil brand is the best-selling baby
formula in the world, with about 7 percent of global sales,
according to Bloomberg Industries. The company got about 29
percent of its worldwide sales from  China  last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  