-- Health Care Will Become a Right, Just Like Water
-- B y   A l e x   M a r s h a l l
-- 2012-07-10T22:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/health-care-will-become-a-right-just-like-water.html
Having your heart operated on is
different from getting a glass of water or a basic education.
Yet they are related in that government once didn’t provide them
for us.  As Americans wait for President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
plan to be carried out, they might find some perspective, if not
solace, in the history of the many national debates over what
services government should offer.  The track record over the centuries is that government
establishes a higher and higher baseline of essential services
for its citizens. This has proved not only good for the people;
it has proved beneficial for business, because healthy, educated
people make better employers, employees, entrepreneurs and
customers.  In the 18th and 19th centuries,  New York  and other big
cities suffered from regular and debilitating epidemics of
cholera and typhoid. The lack of sewers and clean water was
suspected as a cause. A proposal in 1798 for a public water
system failed after being undermined by Aaron Burr, the future
vice president, and his  Manhattan Company . The city opened its
41-mile  Croton Aqueduct  in 1842. Many leading citizens and
businesses had opposed the expensive system as an unwise
assumption of government debt and a nanny-state intrusion into
what was regarded as a private responsibility.  Once in place though, it was a smashing success. Outbreaks
of virulent disease dropped, and the project was a model for
municipal water and (eventually) sewer systems all around the
country.  Education Battle  The drive to establish public schools took place in this
same period but it took longer.  It started during the American Revolution. In 1779, while
war still raged with the British,  Thomas Jefferson , as the
governor of  Virginia ,  introduced  a plan for bare-bones public
education. The bill in the House of Burgesses died without a
vote.  In the 1800s, states issued powerful slogans proclaiming
that reading, writing and ciphering should be a right of all.
But going from word to deed proved arduous. Opponents of the
idea, in language reminiscent of the health-care debate, said
government didn’t have a right to take taxes out of their pocket
to pay for the education of someone else’s child. Quaker,
Lutheran and Catholic churches, which ran their own schools,
regarded government-funded schools as intruding on their turf.  As with health care today (thank you,  Governor Romney ),
 Massachusetts  led the way, first passing a public school law in
1827. Then from 1837 to 1848,  Horace Mann , who held the
essentially ceremonial post of Massachusetts secretary of
education, became a national leader in promoting the
establishment of “common schools” for everyone.  Pennsylvania passed its  Free School Act  in 1834. In another
echo of the debate over Obamacare, there was a backlash, and
voters elected a new governor and crop of legislators who had
campaigned against it. The act was saved by  Thaddeus Stevens , a
state legislator who had won office opposing the act but who
then switched positions. In a rousing speech, Stevens, who was
later elected to Congress, chided his fellow legislators for
voting, without debate, to give money to improve the breeding of
pigs, but for being less willing to spend to improve the breed
of man. He tied free schools to the new democracy.  “If an elective republic is to endure for any great length
of time, every elector must have sufficient information, not
only to accumulate wealth and take care of his pecuniary
concerns, but to direct wisely the Legislatures, the
Ambassadors, and the Executive of the nation,” Stevens said.
“This is a sufficient answer to those who deem education a
private and not a public duty -- who argue that they are willing
to educate their own children, but not their neighbor’s
children.”  Government Power  Mandatory schooling was a separate fight. Massachusetts
again took the lead. In 1852, the state  enacted  a law requiring
parents to send their children either to a public school or to
an acceptable religious school, for three months a year. There
were few provisions for enforcement.  The law was controversial, and no wonder. Here was the
state entering the family’s home, and escorting the child out
the door and into a classroom. The fears about mandatory public
schooling were just as pitched as were those about government-
managed health care and its “death panels.” Government was
entering an area that was previously off-limits. It was not
until 1918 that every state had a public attendance law.  Once established, though, universal public schooling, like
clean water, became an unassailable right. Business became a
strong supporter, profiting as it did from a workforce made
literate at the public’s expense.  Yes, most of the action, both on education and waterworks,
occurred at the state level. But Congress was also involved. It
passed the  Northwest Ordinance  of 1787, which included, by the
design of Thomas Jefferson, a system dedicating one of every 36
plots of land to public education. The  Morrill Act  of 1862
created land-grant colleges. Eventually, Congress would approve
the G.I. Bill. It moved to protect water quality when, under
President  Richard Nixon , it enacted the  Clean Water Act  and
created the Environmental Protection Agency.  This doesn’t mean debates on these subjects are over. Most
people accept that government should have something to do with
ensuring that people have schooling and clean water. But private
water companies have emerged as competitors to municipal water
agencies, and some reformers call for vouchers as an alternative
to public schools.  The arc of history suggests that eventually Americans will
accept the right to health care. It appears that the country is
continuing its path of two steps forward, one step backward, in
establishing a higher bar of essential services for its
citizens. Time has shown that this progress is not only good for
individuals, but will serve the needs of American business, as
well.  ( Alex Marshall , a senior fellow at the  Regional Plan
Association  in New York, is the author of “ The Surprising Design
of Market Economies ,” which will be published in September by
the University of Texas Press. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Washington ’s  inability to
move on  and  Israel ’s debate over  Jewish settlements ;  Mark
Buchanan  on living cells as a model for a  stable financial
system ;  Margaret Carlson  on  presidential vacations ;  Peter Orszag 
explains why states will eventually  expand Medicaid .  To contact the writer of this article:
Alex Marshall at  alex@rpa.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  