-- U.S.-Educated Academic Leads Early Libyan Election Results
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n   a n d   B r i g i t t e   S c h e f f e r
-- 2012-07-10T14:44:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/early-libyan-results-show-u-s-educated-academic-beats-islamists.html
 A Libyan political alliance led by
a U.S.-educated academic and former opposition leader trounced
Islamist parties in early results from the country’s first free
election since Muammar Qaddafi’s removal.  The National Forces Alliance, a collection of about 60
political groups led by Mahmoud Jibril, beat the Muslim
Brotherhood’s Justice and Construction party, according to
results released by the election commission in Tripoli
yesterday. In one multi-seat constituency near the capital, the
Alliance won 11 times as many votes as its Islamist rival.  Libyans went to the polls on July 7 in their first free
national election in more than 40 years, amid political violence
that’s hampered efforts to rebuild after last year’s uprising to
overthrow Qaddafi. Libyan Islamist groups had sought to emulate
the success of their counterparts in  Tunisia  and  Egypt , a trend
which culminated in the election of the Muslim Brotherhood-
backed Mohamed Mursi as Egypt’s president last month.  “The Muslim Brotherhood isn’t doing as well in Libya, as
they don’t have the same grass-roots organization as in Egypt or
Tunisia to gain and mobilize support,” Emad Mostaque, a London-
based emerging-markets strategist at Religare Noah, said today
by e-mail. “Voting in Libya has gone along tribal and familial
lines.  Qaddafi, who ruled the North African nation for 42 years,
was killed in October after eight months of fighting between
loyalists and rebels.  Second Place  The Brotherhood’s party took second place in all three
multi-seat regions where results were declared yesterday, with
the Alliance winning two. Jibril’s grouping beat the Justice and
Construction party by 26,798 votes to 2,423 in Janzour, a suburb
of Tripoli, and by 19,200 to 5,626 in Zlitan, a coastal town 100
miles east of the capital. A third party won in Misrata. A final
tally for the 200-seat national assembly will be given tomorrow.  ‘‘In Egypt, the Muslim Brotherhood has a long history,”
 Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based
Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis. “In Libya,
there are no modern political parties to speak of.”  Preliminary returns from Benghazi, the country’s second-
biggest city, showed Jibril’s Alliance taking more than 50
percent of the vote, according to the Libya Herald online
newspaper, which cited unnamed elections officials. Libya’s
political parties are competing for 80 seats, while individual
candidates vie for the other 120.  Unfair Tactics  The Muslim Brotherhood refused to concede defeat today.
Alamin Belhaj, campaign manager for the Justice and Construction
Party, predicted that candidates standing as individuals would
fare better than on the party lists.  “Nobody can predict the result of the election,” he said
in an interview at the party campaign headquarters, a villa in
Tripoli’s Bin Ashour district. “In the individuals, I think the
results will be more.” The party would not join a Jibril-led
coalition, he said.  Belhaj, a member of Libya’s transitional council, accused
Jibril’s Alliance of employing unfair tactics and said 40 years
of Qaddafi propaganda had hurt the Brotherhood. He leaves for
Cairo today to congratulate President Mursi on his victory, he
said.  The results are “great news for the country and the
Libyans,” said Osama Gandour, a student at Tripoli University.
Jibril “is the right man to lead us.”  NATO Action  Jibril, who earned a PhD from the  University of Pittsburgh 
in 1985 and subsequently taught strategic planning at the
institution, became head of national planning under Qaddafi in
2007 and worked with his son Saif al-Islam on a new
constitution. An observant Muslim, he joined the opposition last
year, becoming de facto prime minister and helped direct  North
Atlantic Treaty Organization  action that crushed Qaddafi’s armed
forces. He describes his alliance as pro-business.  Jibril campaigned as a conservative pledging a secular
approach to government, which “probably suits a substantial
portion of the population,” Crispin Hawes, director of the
Mideast and North Africa program at the Eurasia Group said in an
interview today. “Libyan government departments and state
companies are full of well-educated and technically-adept staff
that are also genuinely conservative and observant Muslims.
Jibril fits that very well.”  Political Center  The grouping stands at the political center, Jibril said on
July 8, though the Alliance is “composed of different political
formations.”  The newly elected assembly will pick a Cabinet to replace
the ruling Transitional National Council, which has struggled to
restore order and revive the economy.  Ahead of the election results, Jibril said he favored the
creation of a coalition.  “We extend an invitation, continued as before, to other
political forces to come together in one coalition under one
banner,” Jibril, 60, said at a press conference in Tripoli.
“This is a sincere call for all political parties to come
together.”  ‘Close to Qaddafi’  Abdurrahman Sewehli, leader of the Union for Homeland
party, which came in first in the coastal city of Misrata,
yesterday ruled out working with Jibril, saying he had been too
close to the previous government.  “Misrata is the only place in  Libya  where Jibril is
getting nothing,” he said in a telephone interview. “Symbolism
is very important. Mr. Jibril is still representing the old
regime. He was very close to Qaddafi.”  Voter turnout among the 2.8 million registered voters was
60 percent, Al Jazeera television reported on July 8, citing
Nouri Al-Abbar, the head of the country’s election commission.
They were choosing between about 142 parties and about 3,700
candidates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brigitte Scheffer in Tripoli at 
 bscheffer@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  