-- Egypt Court Holds Firm Against Mursi as Generals Gain
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2012-07-10T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/egypt-court-holds-firm-against-mursi-as-generals-gain.html
Egypt ’s highest court has confirmed
the dissolution of the country’s parliament after it was briefly
reinstated by presidential order, reaffirming the judiciary’s
authority at the expense of newly elected President Mohamed Mursi.  The constitutional court halted Mursi’s most significant
decision since his election win about two weeks ago, effectively
banning parliament from meeting again. The legislature held a
brief session yesterday after Mursi’s July 8 decree that
reinstated it.  The court had ruled in June that the law governing the
parliamentary vote was unconstitutional, prompting the ruling
Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, or SCAF, at that time to
dissolve the chamber and assume legislative powers. Egypt’s
power struggle between the Muslim Brotherhood, the military and
the judiciary has escalated in the past week.  “It’s a big setback for the president,” Yasser El-Shimy,
Cairo-based analyst for the  International Crisis Group , said by
phone yesterday. “He took a very bold move by reinstating
parliament, but SCAF was determined not to let it happen.”  The court ruling might give SCAF the upper hand, he said,
adding that politics is “being played in the court system due
to the lack of negotiation between all the political actors.”  A pro-Mursi demonstration in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  that
built up throughout the day, intensified after the court’s
verdict last night, with tens of thousands packing the downtown
area and chanting anti-military slogans.  Muslim Brotherhood  Mahmoud El-Khodeiry, a parliamentarian with close ties to
the Muslim Brotherhood, the country’s biggest Islamist
organization, said in an interview on Misr 25 TV the ruling
“doesn’t concern us, and doesn’t prevent us from convening
unless force is used to do so.” The Brotherhood’s political
arm, the Freedom and Justice Party, controls almost half of the
seats in the disputed assembly.  Mursi, who comes from the ranks of the Brotherhood, was
elected president with a slender majority last month. His decree
that was struck down by the court had stipulated another
parliamentary ballot would be held within 60 days of the
approval of a new constitution in a referendum. The charter has
yet to be drafted.  “We’re likely to see more legal challenges moving
forward,” El-Shimy said. “Egypt will likely be stuck in the
coming period in legal wrangling and it’s not going to be
resolved until a constitution is written with clear guidelines
on the respective authority of each branch of government.”  Shares Rise  In the face of the political brinkmanship, Egypt’s
benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  increased for the first time in three
days, rising 0.2 percent to 4,708.5 at yesterday’s close in
Cairo.  Presidential spokesman Yasser Ali didn’t respond to calls
to his mobile phone seeking comment on developments.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  yesterday
“strongly” urged dialogue between Mursi and the military.
“We’ve seen over the last few days that there’s a lot of work
ahead of Egypt to keep this transition on course,” she said.  “Democracy really is about empowering citizens to
determine the direction of their own country,” Clinton said
during a news conference in  Vietnam , adding that Egyptians want
a “fully elected government making the decisions going
forward.”  Clinton said she is looking forward to talks with Mursi and
other officials when she visits Egypt later this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  