-- Egypt Parliament Meets After Mursi Reinstates Legislature
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   D i g b y   L i d s t o n e
-- 2012-07-10T13:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/egypt-parliament-meets-after-mursi-reinstates-legislature-1-.html
Egypt ’s parliament briefly
reconvened for the first time since President Mohamed Mursi
issued a decree to reinstate the legislature, defying a military
order to dissolve it last month.  Parliament adjourned after agreeing to ask Egypt’s highest
appeals court to examine the  Constitutional Court  verdict that
led the country’s senior generals to disband the Islamist-
dominated body, Speaker Saad El-Katatni said today in a session
aired live on state television. The Constitutional Court said
yesterday its rulings are final and binding.  Egypt’s power struggle between the Muslim Brotherhood, the
military and the judiciary has escalated in the past week,
deepening divisions in a country struggling to recover from the
unrest that accompanied last year’s uprising against  Hosni Mubarak . Dozens of protesters gathered around the assembly
building in central Cairo, holding anti-military banners and
shouting pro-Mursi slogans.  “As parliamentarians and members of the Freedom and
Justice Party, we respect the judiciary’s decisions,” Adel
Rashed, a lawmaker with the Brotherhood’s political arm, said in
an interview before walking into the assembly. “President
Mursi’s decree doesn’t conflict with the high court’s ruling.
Today’s session will discuss how to implement that ruling.”  The Constitutional Court had held that some aspects of the
parliamentary elections that ended in January, in which the
Brotherhood’s party won almost half the seats in parliament,
were unconstitutional.  Appeals Court  Parliamentary sessions won’t resume until the appeals court
ruling, the state-run website Ahram Online reported today. In a
separate case, an administrative court considering cases filed
against Mursi’s decree postponed the hearings until July 17.  Mursi, who comes from the ranks of the Brotherhood, was
elected president with a slender majority last month. His July 8
decree says another parliamentary ballot will be held within 60
days of the approval of a new constitution in a referendum. The
charter has yet to be drafted.  The president’s move came after the military council last
month decided to retain legislative powers and curtail those of
the presidency. The council took power in February 2011 after
the ouster of Mubarak, a former air force commander.  “I’m not a member of the  Muslim Brotherhood  or FJP, but I
support Mursi’s decision because for the first time we have
someone really challenging the military council,” said Ahmed
Hussein, a 29-year-old restaurant worker who showed up at the
gates of parliament. “This is only about supporting the
democratically elected president, not clashing with anyone.”  Egypt’s benchmark EGX 30 index gained 0.2 percent at the
close in Cairo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Digby Lidstone in Cairo at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  