-- Egypt Parliament Set to Reconvene as Courts Refuse to Back Down
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-07-10T08:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/egypt-parliament-set-to-reconvene-as-courts-refuse-to-back-down.html
Egyptian lawmakers may heed
President Mohamed Mursi's call for them to return to their
parliamentary offices today, defying judges who yesterday upheld
an earlier ruling and ignoring a warning from the military.  Even as parliament speaker Saad El-Katatni called for the
reconvening, the country’s top court is examining appeals to
overturn Mursi’s July 8 decree, setting the stage for a clash
that will either strengthen the president’s hand or weaken his
authority less than two weeks after he took office.  The  Constitutional Court  said yesterday its rulings, which
led to a military decision to dissolve Islamist-dominated
parliament last month, are final and binding. The Supreme
Council of the Armed Forces, the body known as SCAF that ruled
 Egypt  since last year’s uprising until Mursi’s election, said it
will “side with legitimacy, the constitution and the law.”  Mursi’s decision to reinstate parliament is “part of the
broader tug of war between SCAF and the  Muslim Brotherhood ,”
Hani Sabra, an analyst at Eurasia Group said. “The courts,
which already ruled against parliament’s constitutionality, are
likely to rule against Mursi, and the Brotherhood will be
stymied in its effort to get Egypt’s dissolved parliament
reinstated.”  Mursi’s Freedom and Justice Party, the political arm of the
Muslim Brotherhood, won almost half of the seats in the
legislature in elections this year. Together with the Salafi
Nour Party, Islamists controlled more than two-thirds of the
assembly. Mursi won a narrow majority of votes in a presidential
runoff last month.  IMF Loan  The struggle has deepened divisions in a country recovering
from the chaos that accompanied last year’s uprising that ousted
President  Hosni Mubarak , a former commander of the  air force .
Economists at HSBC Holdings Plc, Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
have said delays in Egypt’s transition to democracy may delay a
$3.2 billion loan agreement with the  International Monetary
Fund , seen crucial to stem the worst decline in foreign reserves
since 2004 and lower record government borrowing costs.  Mursi’s decree also says parliamentary elections will be
held within 60 days of the approval of a new constitution in a
referendum. The charter has yet to be drafted. The  benchmark
stock index  tumbled 4.2 percent, the biggest intraday drop since
June 19, at the close in Cairo yesterday.  “What we’re seeing is yet another round inside the country
about how to restructure power in a major way,” said Brian Katulis, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress in
 Washington . “I don’t know what Mursi’s legal authority is to
reinstate the parliament, but the military has had a great deal
of autonomy and that will likely decline over time.”  The president’s move comes after the military council last
month decided to retain legislative powers following a high
court ruling that the law governing voting for the Islamist-
controlled parliament was unconstitutional.  “The courts can say one thing, the president can say
another thing and SCAF can say another thing, but it’s how these
things are perceived, most importantly by the Egyptian people
and international investors, that’s adding to the pressure,”
said Richard Odumodu, London-based portfolio manager at Silk
Invest Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  