-- Leighton Properties Plans Expansion Into Mining Areas, Asia
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-07-10T22:48:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/leighton-properties-plans-expansion-into-mining-areas-asia.html
Leighton Properties, the real estate
arm of  Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI) , plans to expand developments in
resource-rich areas of northwestern Australia and northern
Queensland state and will seek opportunities in  Asia .  “We’re starting to investigate property development
opportunities in the resource sector including northwest
Australia, which has very strong mining growth, and in north
Queensland, around oil and gas investments,”  Mark Gray ,
managing director of Leighton Properties, said in an interview
in Sydney yesterday. “Ultimately, where we can leverage value
to Leighton Group operations,” the unit may expand in Asia
within five years, he said.  Leighton Holdings, Australia’s largest construction
company, has infrastructure, construction and mining operations
in Asian countries including  India , China, the Philippines,
Cambodia and Malaysia. The group this week said it would sell
its Thiess Waste Management Unit to Germany’s Remondis AG & Co.
for A$218 million ($222 million) and divest other assets as part
of its plan to recycle capital into its core activities.  The properties business remains a major part of the group’s
business, Gray said.  Leighton Holdings  shares  have lost 16 percent this year,
compared with a 1 percent gain in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
index.  Leighton Properties -- which includes the group’s 50
percent interest in Springwood, Queensland-based developer
 Devine Ltd. (DVN)  -- swung to a profit of A$1 million in the six
months ended Dec. 31, from a A$20 million loss a year earlier.
The  parent company  reported net income of A$340 million compared
with a A$216.7 million profit in the corresponding period a year
ago.  Housing Rebound  The company is betting on a recovery in the Australian
housing market with plans to build about 3,400 apartments in
cities including Sydney,  Melbourne  and Brisbane, and expects to
increase its investments in the area further, Gray said.  Home prices  in Melbourne slumped 6.6 percent and Brisbane
4.7 percent in June from a year ago, compared with a 3.6 percent
drop across  Australia ’s eight state capitals, according to
figures from researcher RP Data.  “The current short-term downturn will turn quite quickly
when economic conditions improve,” Gray said. “We still have a
very significant under-supply of housing in Australia, and we
have a growing population.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  