-- Telefonica Said to Weigh Latin American Share Sale
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-07-10T14:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/telefonica-said-to-weigh-latin-american-share-sale.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s biggest phone
operator, is considering ways to sell shares in its entire Latin
America business to raise money and cut debt, people familiar
with the matter said.  One option is to create a regional holding excluding
 Telefonica Brasil SA (VIV)  and list it in the U.S., the people said,
asking not to be named as the plans aren’t public. Telefonica,
with 57 billion euros ($70 billion) in net financial debt, could
also incorporate all Latin America businesses into the Brazil
unit and hold a secondary share sale, they said, adding that no
decision has been made. All assets in the region combined should
be worth at least 40 billion euros, one of the people said.  After spending $85 billion on acquisitions since taking
over in 2000, Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is turning
to some of the most valuable divisions to raise cash. Last
month, Telefonica decided to sell half of its stake in China
Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd., paring its seven-year venture into one
of the fastest-growing wireless markets. In May, Telefonica
announced a plan to sell shares in its German and Latin American
phone units.  “Debt overhang currently drives the company’s strategy and
management’s reaction to market pressure has been to monetize
its best assets,” said Henri Alexaline, a fixed-income investor
who helps manage $1 billion at  London  based  FM Capital Partners
Ltd.  “There would be appetite for a spin-off as  Latin America 
will see some robust growth, but how willing is Alierta to
abandon his most promising footprint?”  Rating Cuts  A Latin America share sale may not happen until 2013
because of regulatory issues, two of the people said, adding
that Madrid-based Telefonica will focus first on the IPO of its
German wireless unit. The operator is considering a sale of a 20
percent stake in the O2 Germany business to raise as much as 2
billion euros, people familiar with the matter have said. A
Telefonica official declined to comment.  Telefonica rose as much as 1.9 percent to 10.03 euros in
 Madrid  today and was up 1.2 percent as of 4:15 p.m. The stock
has fallen 26 percent this year, making it the worst performer
in the 19-company Bloomberg Europe Telecommunication Services
Index.  On June 20, Moody’s Investors Service lowered Telefonica’s
long-term debt rating one level to Baa2, the second-lowest
investment grade, and said it may be reduced further as Spanish
consumers scale back spending and the government’s credit
profile worsens.  Standard & Poor’s  in May cut Telefonica’s
rating to BBB, the equivalent of the Moody’s grade.  Listing Options  Brazil, Telefonica’s biggest market in Latin America,
accounted for more than 23 percent of the group’s revenue in the
first quarter. Other markets where it operates in the region
include  Argentina ,  Chile ,  Peru , Mexico,  Venezuela  and  Colombia .  Sanford C. Bernstein analysts  Robin Bienenstock  and John
Keith have estimated that the Latin American business, excluding
the “unattractive” Argentina and Venezuela units, is worth 47
billion euros.  Listing the regional holding in the U.S. may be the most
attractive option because Telefonica Brasil is trading at a low
valuation, making a secondary share sale in the South American
country less appealing, said two of the people. On the other
hand side, a share sale in Brazil would be easier to carry out,
they said.  Choppy market’s conditions might challenge the plans. At
least 50 companies shelved their IPOs in the quarter ending June
30 as Europe’s debt crisis spread, growth prospects slowed in
China and Facebook Inc.’s stock sank as much as 32 percent after
its IPO. Companies raised $8.1 billion in Latin American share
offerings this year, about half of last year’s amount, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Refinancing Risk  UBS analysts Nick Lyall, Maria Tereza Azevedo and Dan
Kwiatkowski wrote in a July 5 note that other options for the
Latin American business include separate country listings and
Telefonica selling down it stake in the Brazil business.  Alierta bought Brazil’s mobile-phone company  Vivo
Participacoes SA (VIVO)  in 2010 for 7.5 billion euros.  “A sale of a large minority stake would certainly allow
the group to tackle its refinancing risk for the coming years,
regardless of the development on the Spanish sovereign front,”
FM Capital Partners’ Alexaline said.  The operator has said it wants to reach a net debt ratio of
less than 2.35 times operating income before depreciation and
amortization this year. The ratio was about 2.5 times last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  