-- Helpless President, Hopeless Congress
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-10T22:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/helpless-president-hopeless-congress.html
The president proposes and Congress
disposes. Or so generations of schoolchildren have been taught.
As events this week in  Washington  confirm, it doesn’t work that
way, if only for the simple reason that it doesn’t work at all.  President  Barack Obama  on Monday  proposed an extension  of
the Bush tax cuts for Americans earning less than $250,000 a
year. The plan would allow taxes on the rich to rise to Clinton-
era levels, a move justified by the historically low tax rates
paid by the wealthy and by the limited economic stimulus those
rates provide.  But the president didn’t offer the proposal because it is
sensible, or rather only because it is sensible. There is little
chance that Congress will adopt it -- or perhaps any other
sensible proposal Obama might suggest. He offered it because it
is politically advantageous.  With a few  exceptions , such as his directive limiting
deportations of the young and undocumented, the president
appears very close to helpless on the domestic front. He is
still able to use his office and his rhetorical skills to
highlight a campaign contrast. But to the extent that Obama is
“fired up and ready to go,” his combativeness and guile are in
the service of politics, not policy.  He is not alone in this regard. On Wednesday, the House
will vote on repealing the Affordable Care Act. There is no
chance this vote -- the House’s 31st such effort -- will be any
more successful than the previous 30. The Senate won’t even
consider it.  Although opinion on the health-care law remains divided,
more than half of Americans have said they would like to move on
and leave the bruising battle behind, a sentiment we fervently
share. According to a Kaiser Family Foundation  poll  taken after
the  Supreme Court ’s June 28 ruling upholding the law, roughly
one-quarter of Americans want to keep the law, and another
quarter want to expand it. Only 38 percent support either
repealing the law outright or “repeal and replace” -- the slogan
Republicans have brandished but never bothered to explain.  The House will vote for repeal not because the vote will
achieve that aim, or even because it plays to independent
voters, but simply because so many members of the Republican
caucus thrill to repeating the same bankrupt exercise. If the
executive branch is helpless in the face of hyperpartisanship,
the House is simply hopeless.  In 2008, another presidential election year, the Democratic
Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi joined Republican leader  John Boehner  in passing President  George W. Bush ’s  stimulus package  -
- $152 billion in tax breaks for taxpayers and businesses. The
impetus? What Boehner called “the unsettled economic situation.”
Growth was slowing, the housing bubble had grown precarious and
the  unemployment rate  had risen to -- brace yourselves -- 5
percent.  Now Boehner is House speaker and he and his Republican
colleagues see things very differently. Yes, the federal
government spent more than $800 billion on stimulus in the last
three years. But the economic chasm from which the nation still
struggles to emerge is deep.  Europe  remains in constant crisis,
and U.S. unemployment is stuck at 8.2 percent.  In response, the Republicans have offered contractionary
policies, purportedly aimed at reducing debt, which threaten
recovery and are opposed by the vast majority of professional
economists.  Do-nothing government is not always bad government. But
with high, long-term unemployment ruining careers, life savings,
families and hopes, coordinated action is necessary. Weighing
the helpless versus the hopeless, there is a balance in the two
branches’ respective humiliations. It is not, however, the
balance of power Americans are looking for. It’s a check on the
ambitions of a nation.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on Washington’s  inability to
move on  and  Israel ’s debate over  Jewish settlements ;  Mark
Buchanan  on living cells as a model for a  stable financial
system ;  Margaret Carlson  on  presidential vacations ;  Peter Orszag 
explains why states will eventually  expand Medicaid ;  Alex
Marshall  on health care and the  rising bar for government
services .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 