-- Emerging-Market Growth Slows as Euro Crisis Bites, HSBC Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-07-11T10:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/emerging-market-growth-slows-as-euro-crisis-deepens-hsbc-says.html
Growth in emerging-market economies
probably slowed in the second quarter as the euro region’s debt
and banking crisis hurts business confidence around the globe,
HSBC Plc said, citing a purchasing-managers’ survey.  The HSBC Emerging Markets Index, which is compiled by
London-based Markit Economics and tracks conditions at more than
5,000 reporting companies, fell to 53 from 53.6 in the previous
three months. The rate of expansion was weaker than the average
for the past three years, HSBC said.  The  International Monetary Fund  will lower its 3.5 percent
global-growth forecast for this year in its next update July 16,
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said last week. The
deepening euro-region crisis is weighing on growth through
financial, trade and confidence channels, HSBC said. Brazil,
 Russia ,  India  and  China , the largest emerging markets, known as
the BRICs, are also feeling the pinch.  “Developed-world growth is being revised down as has been
the case in the last two years,” Murat Ulgen, HSBC’s London-
based chief economist for central and eastern Europe and sub-
Saharan Africa, said today in an e-mailed statement. “What is
different this time though is a visible slowdown in emerging
giants, the majority of the BRIC countries, too.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) , which has advanced 1.8
percent this year, compared with a 6.7 percent gain for the  S&P
500 , fell 0.2 percent to 932.55 as of 6:29 a.m. in New York.  Summit ‘Hope’  While last week’s summit of European leaders provided
“some rays of hope,” the euro crisis will be prolonged and
will continue to weigh on emerging markets as euro-area leaders
build a fiscal and banking union, HSBC said.  Even so, emerging markets have “ammunition” for economic
stimulus given their healthier public finances and lower debt
ratios, making them resilient, HSBC said.  The People’s Bank of China cut its benchmark  interest rate 
June 5 for the second time in a month to spur economic growth,
which has decelerated every quarter since the first three months
of 2011. Rate-setters in the  Czech Republic  responded to the
risk of contagion from the neighboring euro region by cutting
the benchmark rate by a quarter-point to 0.5 percent on June 28.  Brazil’s central bank has slashed the benchmark rate 400
basis points since August to a record low of 8.5 percent and the
nation’s government is also considering stimulus measures.  The slowdown in economic growth was led by manufacturing,
with Chinese output declining for the past three quarters and
Brazil’s output contracting last quarter after recovering in the
first three months, HSBC said.  Polish manufacturing fell last quarter for the first time
since the global financial crisis began after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s collapse in 2008, HSBC said. Polish new export
orders also had the biggest dropped among the 16  emerging
markets  surveyed, given a dent in demand from the neighboring
euro area, HSBC said.  Emerging-market economic activity hasn’t returned to pre-
crisis levels, when the index averaged about 57, HSBC said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  