-- Emerging-Market Stocks Drop for 5th Day on China Concern
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-07-10T21:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/emerging-market-stocks-drop-for-fifth-day-on-china-concer.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
fifth day, erasing earlier gains, as Chinese imports rose less
than expected, damping prospects that a rebound in the world’s
second-largest economy could strengthen demand for commodities.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  dropped 0.2 percent to
934.25 in  New York  after rising as much as 0.5 percent.  Brazil ’s
Bovespa index fell 3 percent as state-controlled oil company
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  tumbled on lower crude prices. Brazilian
steelmaker  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA  fell the most
since November and  ZTE Corp. (000063) , China’s second-biggest maker of
telecommunications equipment, retreated to a three-year low in
 Hong Kong .  Chinese inbound  shipments  increased 6.3 percent in June
from a year earlier, the customs bureau said today in Beijing,
short of the 11 percent median estimate among 32 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Chinese export growth slowed to 11.3
percent from 15.3 percent in May. Commodities, led by crude,
fell amid concern that interest rate cuts by central banks from
 China  to  Europe  won’t be sufficient to ignite global growth.  “The markets are extremely concerned about the second half
of the year in terms of growth for China,” Gabriel Wallach,
chief investment officer at Fortis Investments, said in a phone
interview from  Boston . “There has been a lot of easing but no
one believes it’s enough. Those concerns have been a big part of
Brazil’s drop because they need good growth out of China for
their resource stocks.”  The 21 countries in the MSCI index send about 30 percent of
their exports to the European Union on average, data compiled by
the World Trade Organization show.  Brazil, Russia  The developing-nation gauge trades at 10.1 times estimated
earnings, compared with 12.1 times for the MSCI World Index of
developed nations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The IShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, dropped for a
fourth day, falling 1.1 percent to $38.20.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, increased 2.1 percent to 27.89.  Petrobras lost 4.2 percent, the most in two weeks, and
Usiminas slumped 6.2 percent, the most since Nov. 29. PDG Realty
SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes, Brazil’s biggest
homebuilder, tumbled 10 percent after reporting an 80 percent
drop in new projects.  Russia’s Micex Index advanced for a second day, led by a
surge of 6 percent for Federal Grid, the high-voltage power
transmission monopoly. OAO Raspadskaya jumped 4 percent to the
highest since May 5 after Deutsche Bank AG raised the Russian
coal producer to buy from hold, citing stronger price forecast.  Indian Rupee  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  added 0.2 percent in
Johannesburg and the  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  rose 0.8 percent in
Istanbul.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has fallen 8.1 percent in
the past three months amid concern Europe’s worsening debt
crisis will drag on developing nations’ overseas shipments.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  sank 0.6 percent in
Hong Kong to the lowest close since June 28, while the Shanghai
Composite Index slipped to the lowest since Jan. 6.  China
Shipping Development Co. (1138)  dropped 4.1 percent on concern trade
flows are declining.  China Forecast  ZTE Corp. (763) , China’s second-biggest maker of
telecommunications equipment, fell 8.8 percent to a three-year
low on speculation slower growth may threaten exports.  Data on July 13 is expected to show  China’s economy 
expanded 7.7 percent in the second quarter, the slowest pace in
three years, according to the median estimate of 35 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The  Dubai Financial Market General Index (DFMGI)  fell 0.2 percent.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Commerzbank AG and
 Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  abandoned talks with Dubai Group to
restructure $10 billion of debt after failing to reach an
agreement, two people familiar with the matter said. Dubai
Group, controlled by Dubai Holding LLC, is among several
government-owned companies in the Middle Eastern emirate seeking
to restructure loans after property and asset values slumped and
credit markets froze.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 371, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  