-- England Secures 4-0 Rout of Australia in One-Day Cricket Series
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-11T00:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/england-defeats-australia-in-rain-shortened-1-day-cricket-match.html
England  beat Australia by seven
wickets to complete a 4-0 rout in their one-day cricket series
and secure its 10th straight victory in the 50-over format.  Captain Alastair Cook led England with 58 runs in the rain-
affected match at Old Trafford in Manchester last night.  Ravi Bopara , who earlier took two wickets, made 52 not out as England
reached the revised target of 138 with 11 balls to spare.  It’s the first time  top-ranked  Australia lost four games in
a one-day series against England. The visiting team was spared
the threat of a 5-0 clean sweep that would have lifted England
above it in the world rankings when the third match was
abandoned because of rain.  “At the beginning of the series you just want to get the
win, so to be sitting here at 4-0 is fantastic,” Cook said in a
post-match news conference. “Clearly we are heading in the
right direction with the group of players we have got.”  Yesterday’s game was shortened after rain delayed the start
and Australia made 145-7 from its 32 overs. Set a revised target
of 138 from 29 overs following another interruption, England got
there in 27.1 overs with three wickets down to win under the
Duckworth-Lewis rules used for weather-affected matches.  England, which took 32 wickets to Australia’s 14 during the
series and didn’t require any batsman below No. 6 Craig
Kieswetter in the matches, rose one spot to third in the
 International Cricket Council ’s one-day rankings. It holds the
No. 1 spot in the Test and Twenty20 formats.  “I certainly did not expect to lose 4-0,” said Australia
captain  Michael Clarke . “I am not surprised at how they played,
just disappointed with the way we did.”  England next hosts  South Africa  in a best-of-three Test
series starting July 19 at the Oval in  London . The teams then
play five one-day internationals and three Twenty20 games.  Australia, which visits England again next year for the
Ashes, is scheduled to play  Pakistan  in one-day and Twenty20
matches that will be staged in the United Arab Emirates in
August and September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  