-- Merkel Winning Euro-Bond Clash as German Bunds Gain: Euro Credit
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-07-10T08:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/merkel-winning-euro-bond-clash-as-german-bunds-gain-euro-credit.html
Investors are declaring German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  the winner in her battle against euro-
region bonds as a way of easing the debt crisis.  Since Merkel conceded to demands of relief for Spain and
 Italy  at a European Union summit on June 29 while opposing the
sale of the bonds, the debt of the euro area’s remaining AAA
nations have outperformed U.S. Treasuries. Yields on 10-year
debt from  Germany ,  Finland  and the Netherlands, whose credit-
worthiness may be diluted by common borrowing with the likes of
Spain, fell by an average 34 basis points since the EU meeting.  “When you look at bund yields, the current levels are a
strong signal that the market isn’t really buying into this euro
bond story otherwise we would have seen a massive pullback in
yields across the AAA countries,” said  Michael Leister , a rates
strategist at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “Demand for safety and
core products is still very strong.”  European leaders remain divided over how to solve the
crisis, with Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and French
President Francois Hollande advocating bonds backed by all 17
members of the currency and Merkel opposing them.  As the debate rolls on, investors have pushed yields on
German two-year notes below zero and Finnish borrowing costs for
two years are the lowest since May 2010 relative to the U.S.  “Markets are more pricing in  risk aversion  than burden
sharing,” said Mohit Kumar, head of European interest-rate
strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in  London . “The whole debt
mutualisation is a long-term story and not something we are
likely to get in the near term.”  Southern Yields  Ten-year bond yields for  Spain  were 9 basis points lower at
6.97 percent today after almost a week of gains, while those for
Italy were 8 basis points lower at 6.03 percent. The German 10-
year bund rate was at 1.32 percent, more than 2 percentage
points below its 3.53 percent average of the past decade.  Finland’s 10-year yield has slipped to 1.53 percent from as
much as 2.05 percent after last month’s summit, while rates on
similar Dutch bonds dropped to 1.75 percent from as much as 2.23
percent. Luxembourg is the other country in the region with a
top credit grade from the three main ratings companies.  Beating Treasuries  Europe ’s so-called havens are beating U.S. Treasuries.
German bonds handed investors a return of 1.54 percent,
including reinvested interest, since June 29, while their
Finnish counterparts returned 1.93 percent and Dutch bonds rose
1.8 percent, according to indexes compiled the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.
Treasuries made 0.71 percent in the same period.  Finland’s  two-year yield  was 21 basis points lower
yesterday than yields on U.S. notes of similar maturity. The
rate was 18 basis points higher than its U.S. counterpart as
recently as April 20. Spanish and Italian bonds slumped last
week as the  European Central Bank  cut  interest rates  and
refrained from any additional steps to cap yields.  “The action by the ECB disappointed investors and, at
least in Europe, that’s why you had the sharp selloff,”  Robert Parker , senior adviser at Credit Suisse Asset Management, said
in a July 6 interview with Linzie Janis on Bloomberg
television’s “On the Move” program. “If we go into September,
October and Spanish bond yields are still 7 percent, that is
worrying and intervention will be required.”  EU leaders sparked the strongest rally in Spanish  bonds 
this year on June 29 when they agreed to loosen bailout rules,
lay the foundations for starting a euro-area bank supervisor and
allow the permanent bailout fund, the European Stability
Mechanism, to be used to recapitalize banks directly.  Spanish Bailout  Spain requested as much as 100 billion euros ($123 billion)
of European aid on June 9 to allow it to finance banks burdened
with bad loans. European finance ministers decided last night to
go ahead with shoring up Spanish lenders. They may move the
costs off the government’s balance sheet to shield the euro
region’s fourth-largest economy from the debt crisis.  Last week’s statement by EU officials didn’t mention the
euro bonds that Monti and Spanish premier  Mariano Rajoy  said are
needed to shore up a European project that has helped maintain
peace in the region. Merkel has maintained her opposition to
shared debt, telling reporters in Berlin on July 5 that Germany
didn’t expand its rescue commitments at the summit.  “This isn’t about taking on any additional liabilities,”
she said. “Liability for banks is banned under the current
rules, just like liability for states. The decisions in Brussels
haven’t changed anything in that respect.”  Investors also favor the region’s safest assets because of
doubts that the EU’s push to unify bank oversight, a necessary
step before leaders can allow cash-strapped lenders to be
recapitalized directly, will succeed amid opposition from
individual national regulators.  Nordic Opposition  Danish Economy Minister  Margrethe Vestager  signaled July 3
that her country is reluctant to sign up to a European banking
authority because such a model probably would rob national
regulators of tools needed to prevent asset bubbles.  Swedish Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  reiterated his
country’s opposition to an EU-wide supervisor on June 27. The
country’s regulator told its four biggest  banks  to abide by
stricter rules than those set by the rest of Europe to protect
taxpayers from losses.  “We all know the problems in setting up a pan-European
bank supervisory authority and potential disagreements there,”
said Jack Kelly, who’s responsible for about 6 billion euros of
 government bonds  as investment director at Standard Life
Investments in Edinburgh. “There isn’t going to be a massive
change of heart from the Germans” on euro bonds and “bund
yields will continue to move lower,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 