-- Merkin’s Madoff Funds to Pay Investors $500 Million
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-07-10T21:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/merkin-s-madoff-funds-to-pay-investors-500-million.html
Ezra Merkin ’s bankrupt Ariel and
Gabriel funds, so-called feeder funds for  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi
scheme, will pay investors $110 million, bringing total
recoveries to more than $500 million.  The funds’ third cash payment, which has been approved by a
New York Supreme Court judge in Manhattan, will be delivered
within about 10 business days, liquidator Bart M. Schwartz said
in a statement dated July 11 that was e-mailed to Bloomberg
News. The payments are separate from the money recovered for
Merkin’s former investors by New York Attorney General Eric
Schneiderman in a $410 million settlement of a state lawsuit
against the investment adviser, Schwartz said.  The $500 million payback from the two Merkin funds may be
the largest so far in the Madoff case, Schwartz has said.  Irving
Picard , who is liquidating the Madoff brokerage, has paid
customers about $333 million since the fraud collapsed in
December 2008.  More distributions to Ariel and Gabriel investors are
coming, Schwartz said in the statement. While Madoff bought no
securities, Ariel and Gabriel invested in other funds, including
Cerberus Capital Management LP, with assets that Schwartz could
sell to raise money for the payouts, according to court papers.  Merkin was originally sued by  Andrew Cuomo , then New York’s
attorney general, for allegedly steering $2.4 billion to Madoff
in exchange for almost $500 million in fees.  State Court Suit  Madoff is serving 150 years in prison after pleading guilty
in 2009 to running the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in U.S. history.
Picard and his law firm, Baker & Hostetler LLP, have charged
about $273 million for liquidating the estate.  Schwartz sued Merkin in state court in September 2010,
accusing the investment adviser of breaching his fiduciary duty,
gross negligence and fraud.  Investors including prominent charities entrusted their
funds to Merkin. Institutions that have alleged they lost money
in Merkin’s investments with Madoff include  New York University ,
Yeshiva University and New York Law School.  The cases are Cuomo v. Merkin, 450879/2009; and Schwartz v.
Merkin, 651516/2010, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  