-- Terra Firma to Refinance German Unit’s $5.3 Billion in Debt
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-07-10T14:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/terra-firma-reaches-4-92-billion-deutsche-annington-debt-accord.html
Deutsche Annington Immobilien AG,
the German property company owned by  Guy Hands ’ Terra Firma
Capital Partners Ltd., reached a preliminary agreement to
restructure 4.3 billion euros ($5.3 billion) of debt.  Under the accord, Deutsche Annington will get more time to
repay holders of its commercial mortgage-backed securities,
known as German Residential Asset Note Distributor Plc, the
Bochum-based company said in a statement today.  The agreement, reached after more than a year of talks, was
accepted by creditors that hold 32 percent of the debt and now
needs approval from the other investors. The securitization,
known as GRAND, is  Europe ’s biggest corporate CMBS, according to
 Fitch Ratings . A restructuring would clear the way for Deutsche
Annington to sell shares to the public, Chief Executive Officer
Wijnand Donkers said.  “The decision to start early with the negotiations paid
off,” Donkers said on a conference call. The refinancing will
probably be completed in the fourth quarter, he said.  Deutsche Annington owns 186,000 apartments in German cities
including Berlin and Cologne. Parties agreeing to the deal
include  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Pacific Investment Management Co.,
BayernLB and Standard Life Investments Ltd. There are more than
100 note holders.  ‘Right Path’  “They’re moving on the right path,” said Torsten Klingner, an analyst at Warburg Research in Hamburg. “If they
can close this deal this year, I expect they’ll try to go public
next year.”  Deutsche Annington registered as a German corporation in
March. The agreement requires the company to repay 1.7 billion
euros of the loan before carrying out an initial public
offering, Donkers said.  Under the proposed terms, Terra Firma would add 504 million
euros of capital and Deutsche Annington would be given five
years to pay off the rest, according to the statement. One
billion euros would be due in the first year, 700 million euros
in the second year, then 650 million euros in the third and
fourth years and the rest in the fifth year. The added cash will
reduce the loan-to-value ratio to 59.7 percent from 71.7
percent, according to documents published by Deutsche Annington.  Raising Money  Deutsche Annington is in talks with German banks to raise
cash for the 1 billion euros that will be due in the first year,
Donkers said. The amount may be refinanced in portions, he said.  By restructuring the terms to allow a gradual repayment,
Deutsche Annington has reduced its financing risks, said Kai Klose, an analyst at Berenberg Bank. Refinancing a loan of this
size before its 2013 maturity would have been difficult because
banks are cutting back on property lending, partly in order to
meet stricter capital rules. Financing smaller amounts over five
years is easier.  “Now their situation is much more stable because they
don’t have so much short-term debt,” Klose said.  Terra Firma, based in  London , founded Deutsche Annington in
2001 after buying a century-old portfolio of apartments built
for employees of the former Bundesbahn state railway.  In 2005, the property company bought homes valued at 7
billion euros from German utility EON AG and financed the
purchase with a syndicated loan from a group of banks, according
to the investor documents. The loan was refinanced with the 5.8
billion-euro GRAND securitization, of which 4.3 billion euros is
now being restructured.  Rothschild and law firm Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP
are advising the creditors, the statement showed. Blackstone
Group International Partners LLP and Allen & Overy LLP are
advising Deutsche Annington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 