-- Tervita Said to Raise C$1 Billion in IPO on Toronto Bourse
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-07-10T20:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/tervita-said-to-raise-c-1-billion-in-ipo-on-toronto-bourse.html
Tervita Corp., a Calgary-based
provider of waste management services, plans to raise as much as
C$1 billion ($980 million) in the biggest initial public
offering in  Canada  in more than two years, according to two
people familiar with the sale.  The shares would be listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
plans aren’t public.  Tervita, formerly known as CCS Corp., employs 4,400 people
providing environmental and energy services including water
treatment, well servicing and environmental remediation for the
oil and gas industry, according to the company’s website. The
IPO would be the biggest in Canada since Athabasca Oil Corp.
raised C$1.35 billion in 2010.  Canadian companies including Sunshine Oilsands Ltd. have
raised $929 million in IPOs this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 46 percent less than the same
period a year earlier and the slowest start since 2008. Calgary-
based Sunshine Oilsands was the biggest IPO of a Canadian
company this year, with a $579 million sale in February, though
it chose to list in  Hong Kong  instead of Canada.  Mandy Dinning, a spokesman for Tervita, wasn’t available to
comment.  The energy and environmental services provider was founded
in 1979 by David Werklund and Gordon Vivian when they purchased
a rig in Valleyview,  Alberta  and called their company Concord
Well Servicing. The company first sold shares in 1993 and then
converted into an income trust in 2002, reverting back to a
closely-held company in 2007 and renaming itself CCS Corp.  Earlier this year, Tervita was formed by the combination of
12 related companies, including CCS, according to the website.
The company has C$623 million in  outstanding debt , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  