-- Mets Place Gee on Disabled List With Blood Clot in Shoulder
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-07-10T18:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/mets-gee-is-hospitalized-with-numbness-in-fingers-espn-says.html
New York  Mets pitcher Dillon Gee was
found to have a blood clot in an artery in his right shoulder
after being hospitalized in New York.  Gee, who was placed on Major League Baseball’s 15-day
disabled list, was admitted to New York-Presbyterian Hospital
yesterday after complaining of numbness in the fingers of his
pitching hand, the team said in an e-mailed statement.  Doctors used a catheter to break up the clot and he’ll
remain hospitalized for the next day or two to ensure that the
problem is fully resolved, the Mets said. The timing of his
return to baseball is undetermined.  “A lot of it depends on why the blood clot formed in the
first place,” Richard Becker, the director of the
cardiovascular thrombosis Center at the  Duke University School
of Medicine , said in a telephone interview. “A majority of the
time it’s due to something called Thoracic Outlet Syndrome, or
TOS. That is where there’s compression within an area of the
shoulder of either the nerve, artery or the vein.”  Gee, a 26-year-old right-hander, has a 6-7 record this year
with a 4.10 earned run average. A third-year player who was
drafted by the Mets in 2007, Gee is 21-15 with a 4.06 ERA for
his career as a major-leaguer.  Becker said Gee probably will be kept on blood-thinning
medication while undergoing additional tests to determine if he
has Thoracic Outlet Syndrome.  Treatment Options  “There are treatments that sometimes include a non-
invasive surgery to open up an area that’s compressing the
artery, the vein or the nerve,” Becker said. “Depending on
what they find or decide to do, it may be a matter of weeks.”  Becker said the repetitive throwing motion of pitchers puts
them at risk for blood clots. He said the clots usually aren’t
career-threatening and can be addressed through surgery or a
non-invasive procedure.  David Cone, a one-time Mets pitcher, missed four months of
action while pitching for the  New York Yankees  in 1996 after
being diagnosed with an aneurysm in his pitching arm. An
aneurysm is a widening of an artery, vein or the heart, and
Becker said it’s a variant of TOS. The Mets didn’t mention an
aneurysm among Gee’s possible issues.  The Mets are 46-40 this season, 4 1/2 games behind the
National League East-leading Washington Nationals at the All-
Star break. The major-league All-Star Game is tonight in  Kansas
City .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  