-- EU CO2 Market Has 950 Million Excess Permits, Hedegaard Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-07-10T12:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/eu-co2-market-has-950-million-excess-permits-hedegaard-says-1-.html
The European Union emissions trading
system is oversupplied by allowances equivalent to almost 50
percent of the annual pollution limit in the program, according
to Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard.  “The difficult macroeconomic circumstances have
substantially altered the supply-demand balance in the European
carbon market,” she told a conference in Brussels today.
“Together with the increasing use of international credits this
has been the key driver in the build-up of unused allowances to
now more than 950 million.”  The excess drove prices in the world’s biggest cap-and-
trade program to a record low in April, triggering calls from
companies including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  for the EU to withhold
a number of permits from the market as of next year. The
surplus, equivalent to almost half the 2.04 billion-metric-ton
average annual allocation in the 2008-2012 trading phase, can be
carried over to the next period from 2013 to 2020.  To help alleviate the oversupply, Hedegaard announced in
April that she will put forward a proposal to delay sales of
some permits at carbon auctions as of next year, an idea known
as backloading. The draft measure, planned for July, should be
presented “rather soon,” she said today.  The surplus estimate by the commission’s climate department
may offer some guidance about the number of permits the EU will
propose to temporarily withhold, according to Sam Van den plas,
expert at the WWF European Policy Office in Brussels.  ‘Overflooding’  “If the commission were to delay auctions of 950 million
euros that’d be a modest proposal,” he said by phone today.  The measure to postpone some auctions will aim to prevent
“overflooding the market that is already being overflooded,”
Hedegaard said. It will be published alongside a report on the
functioning of the EU carbon market, which may give an insight
into the Commission’s thinking behind the the regulatory
proposal.  While the final amount of permits to be delayed in the
draft regulation is yet to be decided and information about it
is restricted, the report sketches three potential scenarios for
policy makers: withholding 400 million, 900 million and 1.2
billion permits, with the later marked as a preferred option,
people familiar with the matter said on June 15.  Internal Talks  The backloading proposal is subject to internal talks at
the commission and risks delay after the directorates
responsible for enterprise, monetary affairs and transport
voiced some objections, people with the knowledge of the issue
said last week. They declined to be identified because the talks
are confidential.  The planned measure sparked protests from BusinessEurope, a
Brussels-based employers’ federation, which said last month the
EU must avoid short-term fixes to the ETS as these would
interfere with a more constructive decision on how to achieve a
“systemic solution” to improve the program in the long term.  Hedegaard said today she hoped the report on the
functioning of the ETS will trigger a debate among  member
states , non-governmental organizations, industry associations
and climate experts on how to best strengthen the system in the
longer term. One option the report will discuss is to
permanently set aside a number of permits to tackle oversupply,
the people familiar with the matter said.  Economic Confidence  The price of EU carbon permits for delivery in December
dropped to 5.99 euros ($7.36) on April 3, the lowest level since
the contract started trading in 2005. The 17-nation euro economy
will shrink 0.3 percent this year, according to the European
Commission. Unemployment rose to a record 11.1 percent in May,
economic confidence slumped to the lowest in more than 2 1/2
years in June, and services and manufacturing output contracted
for a fifth month in the Euro area.  “Naturally, my preferred solution would be to see high
rates of economic growth that would also drive the investment in
low-carbon economy,” Hedegaard said. “But as you know the most
recent data point to rather sluggish growth this and next year.
There’s no easy, automatic solution here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  