-- EU to Speed $123 Billion Aid for Spanish Banks
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-07-10T07:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/eu-to-speed-spanish-bank-aid-aims-for-direct-recapitalization.html
European governments will  jump-start 
as much as 100 billion euros ($123 billion) in emergency loans
to shore up  Spain ’s banks and may move the costs off the Spanish
government’s balance sheet to shield the euro region’s fourth-
largest economy from the debt crisis.  Spanish equities and bonds gained after finance chiefs
agreed to make available 30 billion euros by the end of this
month. The goal is to eventually use the euro-area bailout fund
to recapitalize banks directly instead of saddling the
government with the debts.  The initial cash will “be mobilized as a contingency in
case of urgent needs in the Spanish banking sector,” Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said early today in Brussels
after chairing a nine-hour meeting of euro-region finance
ministers. The program “will succeed in addressing the
remaining weakness in the Spanish banking sector.”  European governments frontloaded the Spanish aid, held out
the prospects of concessions to Ireland and promised to avert a
cash crunch in  Greece  after last month’s  summit-level pledge  to
calm markets failed to prevent a resurgence in the 2 1/2-year-
old debt crisis.  Cash Injections  A four-day slump in Spanish and Italian bonds highlighted
sagging confidence in the crisis response, especially after the
 European Central Bank  showed no signs of restarting its bond-
buying program. Spain’s 10-year bonds rose in early trading,
sending the yield down as much as 6 basis points to 6.99
percent. The yields on  Italy ’s 10-year notes fell 6 basis points
to 6.04 percent. That compares to 1.32 percent in  Germany .  While the loans to Spain will go via the government’s bank-
restructuring agency, the aim is to convert them into direct
European cash injections once the setup of a single European
bank supervisor makes that approach feasible, Juncker said.  “Then there will be no sovereign guarantee required,”
said  Thomas Wieser , in charge of the senior officials’ group
that prepared the decisions.  Political hurdles remain to retrofitting the aid program,
and how it will be organized was left unclear. “We’ll argue for
the retroactivity,” French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici 
said. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the
Spanish government would be liable initially and didn’t address
the issue of eventually converting the loans into direct aid.  Single Bank Supervisor  Spain will set up a separate company to manage assets of
banks tapping European support. Banks are sitting on about 180
billion euros of troubled assets linked to the real-estate
industry as a property slump enters its fifth year.  The maturity of loans to Spain, starting from the European
Financial Stability Facility, will average 12.5 years and run as
long as 15 years. The program will be taken over by the
permanent bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, set to
go into operation in the coming weeks.  The terms are very positive, Spain’s Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said today in Brussels.  Euro officials continued to spar over the timetable for the
setup of a single banking supervisor that would make a switch to
direct recapitalization possible. The  European Commission , which
proposes European laws, expects to “have this in place by year-
end,” Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  told a
European Parliament committee.  Other officials have said the second half of 2013 is more
likely. Germany’s Schaeuble said “it will take time, it’s
complicated, it isn’t easy to do.”  Stress Tests  European banks that took part in last year’s capital stress
tests have “largely raised” the 114.7 billion euros in fresh
capital required by the European Banking Authority, according to
a memorandum prepared for EU finance ministers.  The “capital shortfall identified” has “been largely
raised from private sources and where necessary public backstops
were activated,” according to the document. The detailed EBA
report with the final endorsement of the individual results will
be published in September.  In a concession to Spain that may hint at future leniency
for Greece, the euro ministers gave Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy ’s government an extra year, until 2014, to drive
the  budget deficit  below the euro limit of 3 percent of gross
domestic product.  Revised targets of 6.3 percent in 2012, 4.5 percent in 2013
and 2.8 percent in 2014 are “a challenging but achievable
objective, but above all, it is a necessary objective,” EU
Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said.  ‘Flexible and Efficient’  Ireland responded by stepping up calls for what Finance
Minister  Michael Noonan  called an “ambitious” renegotiation of
the terms of its 67.5 billion-euro bailout. Juncker said tweaks
to the program are conceivable by October.  Yesterday’s increase in Spanish and Italian borrowing costs
relative to German levels nullified gains made in the wake of
the June 29 euro summit commitment to intervene in bond markets
“in a flexible and efficient manner.”  Those powers won’t be fully available until the permanent
fund, the 500 billion-euro ESM, goes online. Plans to declare it
operational yesterday were thwarted by a German constitutional
challenge and ratification delays in Italy. Until the ESM gets
going,  Europe ’s defenses will be limited to the 240 billion
euros left in the temporary EFSF, set up in May 2010. It will be
phased out once governments start pouring capital into the ESM.  ECB Bond Purchases  “This ESM today should be in action, and it is not and we
do not know when it will be in action,”  Ewald Nowotny ,
 Austria ’s representative on the ECB council, said at a panel
discussion in Brussels. “This is of course something that tends
to undermine the credibility of the decisions that we take at
summits.”  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , who doubles as finance
minister, pressed his case for steps to reduce Italy’s bond
yields, whether using the euro bailout fund or the ECB.  The ECB went a 17th week without settling any government
 bond purchases , the bank said yesterday, keeping on hold a
market-calming step used from May 2010 until February 2012 amid
growing opposition from the Germans on its council.  The central bank is probing “all ideas” and “constantly
studying and searching for actions that could attenuate the
current crisis,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  told yesterday’s EU
parliament committee hearing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Brussels at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  