-- Euro States Lay Groundwork for Bond Buys, Speed Spanish Aid
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-07-10T16:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/euro-states-lay-groundwork-for-bond-buys-speed-spanish-aid.html
European governments laid the
groundwork for possible purchases of  Italy ’s bonds and fast-
tracked aid for  Spain ’s banks, trying to shield the euro area’s
third- and fourth-largest economies from the resurgent debt
crisis.  Finance ministers worked out a way for the euro bailout
funds to intervene in bond markets and said the first 30 billion
euros ($37 billion) of 100 billion euros in rescue loans will
start flowing to Spanish banks this month.  “It’s always useful to have a certain reserve for possible
unexpected developments,” European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said of the frontloaded Spanish
loans at a press conference after a two-day meeting in Brussels.  Italian and Spanish bonds rose and European stocks
advanced, as investors rewarded at least for today the attempt
by euro governments to get ahead of the curve in battling the 2
1/2-year crisis that has shaken the 17-nation currency to its
foundations.  Finance ministers left a number of blanks to be filled in,
starting with how they will tide  Greece  through next month’s
bond redemptions and whether the new government in  Athens  can
ease up on austerity measures.  Greece, which spawned the crisis, is counting on an
“intermediate solution” to keep it solvent through August
while it negotiates more lenient aid terms, Finance Minister
Yannis Stournaras said. Greece must repay at least 2.6 billion
euros of debt held by the  European Central Bank  on Aug. 20.  Monti’s Shield  A separate accord to use the ECB as a buying agent for
bonds purchased by the government-run bailout funds brought
 Europe  a step closer to the “debt shield” demanded by Italian
Prime Minister  Mario Monti .  Monti, who doubles as Italian finance minister, had
complained that concerns about the health of Spain’s banking
system had spilled over onto Italy as well, unfairly pushing up
Italian borrowing costs.  With the temporary bailout fund left with 240 billion euros
and the 500 billion-euro permanent fund on hold, European
resources would be swamped by Italy’s 2 trillion-euro debt.
Monti stopped short of seeking official intervention.  The only official bond buying during the crisis has been by
the ECB, which suspended its interventions in February after
criticism from Germans on its policy council. The central bank
now holds 212 billion euros of peripheral-country bonds.  Bond Buying  Italy wants an arrangement “by buying bonds issued by a
certain country in order to contain the fluctuations in the
spread,” Monti told reporters after the meeting.  Finance ministers fleshed out the terms for fixing Spanish
banks, which are sitting on about 180 billion euros of troubled
assets linked to the real-estate industry as a property slump
enters its fifth year. A final accord will come on July 20.  In a separate concession, the euro ministers gave Spanish
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government an extra year, until
2014, to drive the  budget deficit  below the EU limit of 3
percent of gross domestic product.  While the loans to Spain will go via the government’s FROB
bank-restructuring agency, the aim is to convert them into
direct injections once the setup of a single European bank
supervisor makes that approach feasible, Luxembourg Prime
Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said.  Political hurdles abound to switching to direct aid, which
would give European authorities control over the banks instead
of saddling the Spanish government with the debts.  French Argument  “We’ll argue for the retroactivity,” French Finance
Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the Spanish government would be liable initially
and didn’t address the issue of eventually converting the loans
into direct aid.  In any event, the future permanent aid fund, the European
Stability Mechanism, wouldn’t gain the power to administer
direct recapitalizations until the euro area replaces the
patchwork of national bank supervisors with a central authority.  Euro officials continued to spar over the timetable for the
setup of a single supervisor. ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  told the ministers that a year-end target is “a
commitment that will be very important for all sorts of reasons
to complete in time.”  Other officials called the second half of 2013 more likely.
Germany’s Schaeuble said “it will take time, it’s complicated,
it isn’t easy to do.” First proposals are due from the European
Commission in September.  German Court  Policies to shore up banks and calm bond markets are tied
up with the start of the permanent ESM fund. Instead of going
into operation today, it was delayed by a German high-court
challenge that laid bare the fragile support in northern
countries for further aid to the south.  In a hearing today in Karlsruhe,  Germany ’s Federal
Constitutional Court heard complaints by plaintiffs including
the 23,000-strong “More Democracy” group which said that
“parliaments are being disempowered” by German loans to weaker
economies.  The head of the German central bank, Jens Weidmann, offered
ammunition to opponents by telling the court that warnings about
the impact of a delay are “highly speculative” and “speedy
ratification wouldn’t offer a guarantee against the crisis
getting worse again.”  No date is set for a court ruling.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Brussels at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  