-- European Stocks Climb as U.K. Manufacturing Tops Forecast
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-07-10T16:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/european-stock-index-futures-fall-on-chinese-imports-data.html
European stocks  rose for the first
time in a week as manufacturing in U.K. and Italy unexpectedly
gained and euro-area finance ministers agreed on steps to
support Spanish banks.  ASML Holding NV (ASML)  rallied the most since 2008 as  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
agreed to invest as much as $4.1 billion in the maker of
semiconductor equipment.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  added 2.2 percent after
Chairman Marcus Agius said the bank’s former chief executive
officer will forgo bonuses. Ipsen SA plunged 11 percent after
U.S. regulators put two of its clinical trials on hold.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 0.8 percent to 255.6 at
the close of trading. The benchmark gauge is entering a sixth
straight week of gains, which would be the longest winning
streak since April 2010, as the region’s policy makers eased
repayment rules for Spanish banks and relaxed conditions for
possible aid to  Italy .  “The data out of both Italy and U.K. have been better than
expected,” said Markus Huber, head of German sales trading at
ETX Capital in  London . “The market has been starved of any kind
of good news, so this is welcome.”  U.K.  factory output  rose 1.2 percent in May from the
previous month, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. The median forecast of 26 economists in a Bloomberg
survey was for a decline of 0.1 percent. Overall industrial
output increased 1 percent.  Italian Production  In Italy, industrial production gained 0.8 percent in May
from a month earlier, the national statistics office Istat said.
Economists had forecast a decline of 0.6 percent, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  European governments agreed to lend 30 billion euros ($37
billion) to Spain by the end of July, with the aim of eventually
using the euro-area bailout fund to recapitalize banks directly,
instead of burdening the Spanish government with the debts,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said.  The initial cash will “be mobilized as a contingency in
case of urgent needs in the Spanish banking sector,” Juncker
told reporters early today in Brussels after chairing a nine-
hour meeting of euro-region finance ministers. The program
“will succeed in addressing the remaining weakness in the
Spanish banking sector.”  National benchmark indexes gained in all of the western
European markets, except Greece and Iceland. Germany’s DAX Index
advanced 0.8 percent, France’s CAC 40 added 0.6 percent and the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 rose 0.7 percent.  China Imports  China’s imports rose less than expected in June, pushing
the  trade surplus  to a three-year high and adding pressure on
the government to boost economic stimulus. Inbound shipments
increased 6.3 percent from a year earlier, the customs bureau
said, compared with the 11 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 32 economists. Export growth slowed to 11.3
percent and the trade surplus rose to $31.7 billion.  In the U.S.,  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  began the second-quarter earnings
season yesterday. The nation’s largest aluminum producer said
profit excluding charges related to a proposed settlement of
Aluminium Bahrain BSC’s bribery lawsuit and other items was 6
cents a share, compared with the 5-cent average of 19 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  ASML jumped 8.6 percent to 43.15 euros, the biggest gain
since September 2008. Intel said it will take an initial 10
percent stake in the Dutch company for about $2.1 billion, and
later another 5 percent for about $1 billion. ASML will also get
another $1 billion in stages, the world’s largest chipmaker said
yesterday.  Barclays Gains  Barclays gained 2.2 percent to 167 pence. Agius said the
bank’s former Chief Executive Officer  Bob Diamond  will forgo
deferred bonuses valued at as much as 20 million pounds ($31
million) after politicians protested his role in the Libor-
fixing scandal. Diamond will receive a total payoff of about 2
million pounds.  Logitech International SA (LOGN)  surged 4.3 percent to 10.12 Swiss
francs. The world’s biggest maker of computer mice said the
board will ask shareholders to approve a one-time dividend, the
first payment since 1996.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  advanced 2.1 percent to 327.8
pence. The U.K.’s largest clothing retailer said its head of
general merchandise Kate Bostock will step down after reporting
the biggest decline in non-food revenue since 2008. Same-store
sales of general merchandise slid 6.8 percent in the quarter
ended June 30. The median estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg
News survey called for a 6.5 percent decline.  Afren, Ipsen  Afren Plc (AFR)  jumped 9.1 percent to 114.3 pence amid
speculation it may get a takeover offer. Exxon Mobil Corp. and
Eni SpA are examining possible bids for the oil and gas company,
the U.K.’s Daily Mail said yesterday.  Ipsen (IPN)  tumbled 11 percent to 17.70 euros after U.S.
regulators put trials of a hemophilia drug it is developing with
Inspiration Biopharmaceuticals Inc. on hold because of a
“potential safety concern.”  Balfour Beatty Plc (BBY)  declined 2.9 percent to 302 pence after
the U.K. builder said 2012 full-year performance will be “in
line with expectations.”  Sodexo (SW)  slid 5 percent to 58.19 euros, the biggest drop
since November 2009. The world’s second-biggest provider of
catering services said sales growth slowed in the third quarter
because of worsening economic conditions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  