-- Yen Remains Higher Versus Dollar on Bets BOJ Won’t Act
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-07-11T07:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/euro-near-2-year-low-before-region-s-production-data.html
The yen remained stronger against
the dollar after a three-day gain on signs  Europe ’s debt crisis
is hurting growth and on bets Japan’s central bank will refrain
from adding stimulus to temper the currency’s appreciation.  Japan’s currency touched a one-month high against the euro
after  Germany ’s top court signaled deliberations may be longer
on a case that may decide the fate of the region’s bailout
mechanism. The 17-nation euro was 0.1 percent from a record low
versus  Australia ’s dollar as data showed German inflation slowed
and ahead of a report forecast to show euro-area manufacturing
stagnated. Demand for the  U.S. dollar  was limited before the
 Federal Reserve  releases minutes of its June 20 gathering.  “We do think the BOJ will ease further, but not at this
week’s policy meeting,” said Callum Henderson, global head of
currency research at Standard Chartered Plc in Singapore.
“That’s going to be a further source of disappointment if
indeed that plays out. The yen should strengthen.”  The yen advanced 0.1 percent to 79.36 per dollar at 8:22
a.m.  London  time.  Japan ’s currency touched 97.10 per euro, the
strongest since June 5, before trading at 97.34, little changed
from yesterday’s close in  New York .  The euro traded at $1.2267 from $1.2250 yesterday, when it
touched $1.2235, the lowest since July 2010. The shared currency
slid 0.2 percent to A$1.19950, after yesterday touching
A$1.19878, a record low.  Ten of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News expect no
change at the end of the two-day  Bank of Japan (8301)  meeting tomorrow.
The central bank last week raised the economic assessment of all
nine regions for the first time since October 2009.  Court Challenge  Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe heard
arguments yesterday on whether to put German approval of the
European Stability Mechanism and fiscal pact on hold until it
rules on the legality. Both houses of parliament approved the
new laws on June 29 with a two-thirds majority. German President
 Joachim Gauck  withheld his signature due to legal challenges
that were discussed at the hearing.  Court President Andreas Vosskuhle signaled the court may
take a more deliberative approach to its initial decision,
potentially further delaying the ESM from coming into force.  “Europe could descend into serious confusion if leaders
fail to reach an agreement on the ESM,” said Kumiko Gervaise,
an analyst in  Tokyo  at Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd., a
unit of Japan’s largest online currency margin-trading company.
“The yen may strengthen, given the declines we see in stocks.”  Lower Profits  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index of shares fell 0.4 percent and
the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks dropped as much as 0.6
percent, following a 0.8 percent slide by Standard & Poor’s 500
Index yesterday. Profits for S&P 500 companies fell 1.8 percent
in the second quarter, according to analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. That would be the first decline since 2009, even
as revenue is forecast to rise 2.5 percent.  European finance ministers at a meeting in Brussels this
week worked out a way for euro bailout funds to intervene in
bond markets and said the first 30 billion euros ($37 billion)
of 100 billion euros in rescue loans will start flowing to
Spanish banks this month.  The finance ministers gave Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government an extra year, until 2014, to drive his
nation’s budget deficit below the euro limit of 3 percent of
gross domestic product.  Euro Lows  The officials have provided “another short-term fix but
the problem is still there,” said Hans Kunnen, chief economist
at St. George Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “I would imagine the euro
would test new lows. The constant news of crisis just saps
business confidence.”  In Germany, a final reading of  consumer price inflation  in
June, calculated using a harmonized European Union method, was
at 2 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said
today. That would be the lowest rate since January 2011 and
unchanged from the level indicated in the preliminary reading
released June 27.  Industrial production in the euro area probably failed to
grow in May after two months of decline, according to median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey before the data is
reported tomorrow.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing, or QE, from December 2008 to June
2011, seeking to cap borrowing costs and stimulate the economy.
The central bank today will release minutes of last month’s
policy meeting where Chairman Ben S. Bernanke indicated another
round of QE remains an option.  Fed Minutes  “The minutes could serve to refocus the market’s attention
on the fact that the Fed again has both hands back on the QE
bazooka,” Citigroup Inc. strategists  Todd Elmer  and Andrew Cox
wrote in a report today. “Indications that the Fed’s perception
of the balance of risks is shifting should be U.S. dollar
negative.”  The Australian dollar may be poised for losses should it
fall below $1.0145, according to UBS AG, citing trading
patterns.  A breach of $1.0145, which is the mid-point of the
currency’s latest rally, will be “the next bearish signal”
toward the 38.2 percent Fibonacci retracement of its advance in
June to July,  Richard Adcock , head of fixed-income technical
strategy in London at UBS, wrote in an e-mailed note to clients
today.  The retracement level is $1.0044, based on a low of 95.82
U.S. cents reached on June 1 and a high of $1.0329 on July 5,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The so-called Aussie
today added 0.3 percent to $1.0223.  -- With reporting by Kazumi Miura in Tokyo. Editors: Stuart
Biggs, Jonathan Annells  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net 
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  