-- Europe Should Move to Growth-Boosting Plan, OECD’s Leterme Says
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-07-10T02:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/europe-should-move-to-growth-boosting-plan-oecd-s-leterme-says.html
Yves Leterme, deputy secretary-
general at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development and a former Belgian prime minister, spoke yesterday
in an interview with Bloomberg News in Yeosu, south of Seoul.  On interdependent economies:  “Given the interdependence of the economies, I think that
the problems of the  euro zone  which were assessed during a very
long period as being the problem of Europe, these problems have
become problems of global dimension.  ‘‘It’s very clear that the growth figures, the economic
development in the U.S.,  Korea  and  China  is under pressure
because of the situation of the euro zone. Within the euro zone,
I think a lot of measures already have been taken.’’  On shifting policy to growth:  ‘‘I think it is very important now for both the euro zone
and the global economy that the shift can be made from tackling
the problem of sovereign debt and of bank capitalization, shift
from these two problems towards growth-enhancing policies.’’  On pace of decision making in  Europe :  ‘‘It is fair to say that the European decision-making
process takes more time. But in the end, well the leaders
deliver and then the measures have to be implemented. Of course,
we see sometimes problems in some  member states .’’  On whether a weaker currency could help Europe:  ‘‘In the long run, what is essential is structural policies
that strengthen the global competitiveness of the European
Union. Of course, the currency is an important tool and an
important element of global trade and of competitiveness
positions in the short term. In the long run, the most important
issue is putting through structural reforms in terms of the
labor market, in terms of skills, in terms infrastructure,
research and development.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  