-- Bullard Says U.S. Needs Dramatic Steps to Restore Confidence
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-07-10T13:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/fed-s-bullard-says-u-s-fiscal-position-needs-dramatic-steps.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the U.S. fiscal position is as weak
as some euro-area countries’ and lawmakers must take
“dramatic” measures to tackle it and restore confidence.  “The U.S. fiscal situation is similar to that of some
countries in  Europe  and requires dramatic and sustained
attention,” Bullard said in a speech in London today. “The
political compromise in the U.S. has been to delay action until
after the November election, but markets tend to pull the
uncertainty forward.”  Bullard said that while the  U.S. economy  is growing, the
pace is “sluggish” and the “most pressing” issue is the debt
crisis in Europe. He said payrolls data last week hadn’t changed
his outlook for a “modestly improving” performance in the
second half of the year.  “Increased government spending today followed by higher
future taxes is not likely to produce more rapid growth,” he
said. “The most likely way forward continues to be a long
period of debt paydown and sluggish growth, both in Europe and
the U.S., and that the most pressing policy issue is to accept
this path and prevent any additional problems from developing.”  Fed Stimulus  Speaking at an event hosted by the Official Monetary and
Financial Institutions Forum, Bullard said it will take time to
see the potential impact of the Fed’s latest stimulus measures
and that U.S. monetary policy is currently “appropriately
calibrated.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said on June 20 it will
expand its Operation Twist program to extend the maturities of
assets on its balance sheet, and it stands ready to take further
action as needed. The Fed also repeated that economic conditions
will probably warrant keeping its benchmark  interest rate  near
zero until at least late 2014. Bullard, who doesn’t vote on
monetary policy this year, does participate in FOMC meetings.  “If things slow down a lot more and the U.S. economy
looked like it was going back into recession or there were risks
of deflation then we would consider more action,” Bullard told
reporters. “But I don’t think we’re at that juncture.”  Operation Twist shouldn’t be expanded beyond the end of
this year, as there is a limited amount of short-term Treasuries
held by the  Federal Reserve  that can be extended, Bullard said.
“We’re running out of balance sheet,” he said.  Grand Bargain  On the euro area, Bullard said that while the outlines of a
“grand bargain” to resolve the debt crisis are “faintly
visible,” there may not be “sufficient political support for a
ceding of sovereign authority to the European level.”  He said that the perceived lack of a euro-exit mechanism
means some countries don’t have enough motivation to keep up
austerity programs. This may change the “incentives” for other
nations to stay in the currency zone as it increases the efforts
they need to make to keep the bloc together.  “The common refrain that no country can ever be allowed to
leave the EMU is altering the incentives for nations to take the
actions necessary to maintain membership,” he said. “For
countries that are already members, taking on country credit
risk through mutualization is also damaging their incentives to
remain in the club. They enjoy the benefits of membership, but
the calculus could change if they see too many disadvantages
from the policies undertaken to keep the union together.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in London at  jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  