-- Financial Services Workers Report Awareness of Wrongdoing
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-07-10T16:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/financial-services-workers-aware-of-wrongdoing-law-firm-finds.html
Almost one-third of Britain’s
financial-services workers are aware of illegal behavior at
their companies, and many fear reporting it, a survey by the
securities litigation  law firm  Labaton Sucharow LLP found.  Of 500 senior professionals questioned last month, 30
percent in the U.K. and 22 percent in the U.S. said they had
witnessed or had “first-hand” knowledge of wrongdoing, the law
firm said today in a statement. Almost 4-in-10 believe their
competitors  break the law  to get ahead, the firm said.  The study focused on corporate ethics, the regulatory
landscape and individuals’ willingness to report illegal
behavior, the New York-based law firm said. It comes amid U.S.
and U.K. probes into whether banks rigged the  London  interbank
offered rate and follows a record 290 million-pound ($450
million) fine for  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   “It is shocking that four years after the global economic
crisis began there continues to be a fundamental lack of
integrity in the financial services industry,”  Dominic Auld , a
lawyer at Labaton Sucharow, said in the statement.  The survey shows that 30 percent of workers believe their
compensation or bonus plans put pressure on them to compromise
ethical standards or break the law, the firm said. An equal
number said regulators and law enforcement agencies don’t
effectively deter such behavior, the report said.  SEC, SFO  Almost all respondents said they would report illegal
activity if they had whistle-blower protection. Only about one-
third in the U.K. and half in the U.S. knew the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission and the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office’s
SFO Confidential program provided such protections, the firm
said.  Eighteen percent of U.K. respondents and 15 percent in the
U.S. said they would engage in illegal insider-trading if they
thought they could get away with it, said the law firm, which
often represents investors or others suing companies.  “Wrongdoing in the workplace cannot ever be condoned,”
 Brian Capon , a spokesman for the  British Banker’s Association  in
London, said in an e-mail. “Our members have processes so staff
concerned about aspects of behavior and conduct can raise these
at the appropriate level in their organization.”  The law firm’s survey didn’t mention the  Libor probe , which
cost Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  his job.
Other recent scandals originating in London include JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s trading loss of at least $2 billion in May and UBS
AG’s $2.3 billion loss last year.  Libor is calculated from a daily survey carried out for the
BBA, in which the world’s biggest lenders are asked the rate
they’re charged to borrow over a variety of short-term
maturities in several currencies.  Labaton Sucharow’s six-day online survey queried directors,
senior managers, managers, senior analysts and financial
analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  