-- First-Term Republicans Ready to Support Obama on Russia Trade
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-07-10T22:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/first-term-republicans-ready-to-support-obama-on-russia-trade.html
First-term Republican U.S.
representatives led by Billy Long are willing to back President
 Barack Obama ’s effort to establish normal trade ties with
 Russia , setting aside differences over health care and taxes.  “We stand ready to achieve this goal” on Russia,
according to the draft of a letter Long, a Missouri Republican,
said he plans to send Obama this week. Republicans “invite you
to work with us, shoulder to shoulder, at all levels in order to
swiftly move the legislation.”  Long has signatures from at least 59 Republicans elected in
2010, when the party took control of the House, he said
yesterday in a phone interview.  U.S. businesses including  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
 General Electric Co. (GE)  are urging lawmakers to repeal a Cold War-
era trade restriction so that they won’t be at a disadvantage to
their overseas competitors when Russia joins the  World Trade
Organization  as soon as next month. The nation’s lower house of
parliament today voted in favor of Russia’s membership in the
Geneva-based trade forum. The upper chamber is scheduled to vote
July 18.  Without permanent normal trade relations, the U.S. will be
shut out of the WTO’s dispute-settlement board to resolve trade
differences with Russia, and U.S. companies won’t be guaranteed
the lower tariff rates that Russia has agreed to adopt,
according to the Coalition for U.S.-Russia trade, a Washington-
based industry group.  Obama Opposition  Lawmakers in both parties have said action to improve trade
ties with Russia should be accompanied by measures imposing
financial and travel limits on human-rights violators.  Long hasn’t supported Obama, and voted 30 times to repeal
or deny funding for the health-care law, according to a June 7
statement. On June 28, he said the Supreme Court decision
upholding the law was “a blow to democracy.”  The Senate Finance Committee plans to consider both Russia
trade issues as soon as next week. While the human-rights bill
has advanced in the House, a bill clearing the way to give
Russia improved status hasn’t been introduced. Ways & Means
Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican, and the
Obama administration are seeking a bill without the human-rights
punishment.  Obama needs to do more to rally support, Long said.  “I can’t sell the Democrats,” he said. “The president
can.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  