-- Food-Stamps Fight, Elections Combine to Slow Farm Law
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-07-10T15:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/food-stamps-fight-elections-combine-to-slow-farm-law.html
Congress’s election-year calendar
and conflicts over food stamps may make this week’s House
Agriculture Committee consideration of a farm-aid and nutrition
bill the measure’s last advance before current law expires at
the end of September.  House leaders would rather sidestep divisions over food-
stamp spending and delay the bill until after the November
election, analysts and lobbyists say. Appropriations legislation
and possible votes on repealing President  Barack Obama ’s health-
care plan will compete for time. Given the political thorniness
of the agriculture bill, a series of short-term extensions is
possible, said Harwood Schaffer, an assistant professor at the
University of  Tennessee .  An on-time bill “won’t happen if the Republicans can help
it,” said Schaffer, a researcher in the Agriculture Policy
Analysis Center. “Only if they are in a bind where the pressure
from farm country is strong enough to override the Tea Partiers
will it happen.”  Record food-stamp spending has made the program a prime
target for cuts as lawmakers try to forge a five-year
reauthorization of U.S. Department of Agriculture programs. The
nutrition initiative cost $75.7 billion last year, double the
level of four years earlier and the biggest expense in the
USDA’s budget. In April, about 46.2 million people -- more than
one in seven Americans -- received the assistance.  Competing Plans  The House Agriculture Committee plan released last week by
Chairman  Frank Lucas , an Oklahoma Republican, would save $35.1
billion over 10 years, with $16.1 billion from food stamps. In a
budget-related measure in May, lawmakers called for $29.5
billion in cuts by dropping 1.8 million people from assistance
rolls. The Senate’s agriculture bill, passed last month, is
designed to save $23.1 billion over a decade, cutting food
stamps by about $4 billion.  “This is harmful for a culture and a country, when you
have one in seven people thinking it’s OK for someone else to
feed them,” Representative  Jim Jordan , the  Ohio Republican  who
is chairman of the Republican Study Committee, said today at a
Bloomberg Government breakfast. “We do need to reform that, and
frankly we need to scale it back.”  Floor Fight  The $16.1 billion in food-stamp cuts proposed by the House
panel may not be enough to persuade Majority Leader  Eric Cantor 
to schedule what could be a difficult floor fight this month,
said Mary Kay Thatcher, head lobbyist for the  American Farm
Bureau Federation , the biggest U.S. farmer group. The House
needs to pass a bill this month to leave time to resolve
differences with the Senate version before the law expires in
September, she said.  “We’re never going to get this on the House floor,” she
said in an interview last week. “They’re going to be busy” on
other legislation. Additionally, Republicans would rather
rewrite farm policy after the election, when the party may have
regained control of the Senate from Democrats, she said.  “Leader Cantor supports Chairman Lucas in his markup of
the farm bill,” Laena Fallon, a spokeswoman for the Virginia
Republican, said in an e-mail. Cantor’s office hasn’t listed a
farm bill as a priority in a memo outlining his July schedule.  While Congress has shown that it can pass legislation -- it
approved a highway-spending bill last month -- the House
leadership delayed committee consideration of a farm law for two
weeks, in order, it said, to debate the annual agriculture
appropriations bill. That spending proposal too has been
delayed.  ‘Bright Spot’  The House Agriculture Committee still plans to get a bill
passed on time, according to Representative  Collin Peterson  of
 Minnesota , the panel’s top Democrat. “We jeopardize one of the
economic bright spots of our nation’s fragile economy” without
it, he said last week in a statement.  Still, nutrition programs divide Democrats too.
Representative Jim McGovern of  Massachusetts , a member of the
House Agriculture Committee, said he would oppose the farm-bill
draft tomorrow because of its food-stamp provisions.  “We’re going to oppose these cuts, and we’re going to
oppose this bill,” he said at a Capitol Hill rally featuring 10
Democratic members of the chamber. “And if this bill comes to
the House floor, we are going to do everything in our power to
defeat this bill.”  Without a new law by Sept. 30, farm programs would revert
to underlying legislation written in 1949 when circumstances
were different. Waiting for that to happen would create
“panic” among farmers who need to know the shape of government
support to make planting and financial decisions, Agriculture
Secretary Tom Vilsack said last month.  Prior Lapses  Still, a lapse in authorization isn’t unprecedented. In
recent decades, only one farm law, in 2002, passed on time. The
most recent law was approved on June 18, 2008, more than eight
months after the previous plan expired.  Food stamps  and crop insurance, the biggest nutrition and
subsidies programs, would function without interruption
regardless of congressional action because of other legislation.  Current programs are regularly extended until a new plan
passes, and with farm profits near record levels, subsidies are
important to growers than in the past, and delays can be
managed, Thatcher said.  “We’re going to be talking about this for a long time,”
she said.  The law governs programs that feed needy families, improve
air and soil quality, encourage rural development and provide a
safety net for farmers who suffer crop or income loss.
Production subsidies, which may reach $11 billion this year, aid
agribusinesses such as Archer Daniels Midland Co. and Cargill
Inc. by lowering the costs of their raw materials.  The bill is S. 3240. The House version hasn’t been assigned
a number.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  