-- Former Houston Mayor Joins Lazard to Seek Energy Deals
-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-07-10T21:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/former-houston-mayor-joins-lazard-to-seek-energy-deals.html
Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , the largest independent
merger adviser, hired former Houston mayor  Bill White  as
chairman of its business in the city to help the firm win energy
deals.  White, 58, was elected mayor of the fourth-biggest U.S.
city in 2003. He ran for governor of Texas as a Democrat in 2010
and was defeated by Republican  Rick Perry . Before his three
terms as mayor, White worked for the U.S. Department of Energy
as deputy secretary and chief operating officer, according to a
statement from Lazard.  He started his career as a lawyer working for Susman
Godfrey LLP in Houston and was the chief executive officer of
Wedge Group Inc., an energy investment company, until beginning
his six-year stint as mayor.  “The energy industry is a pretty pragmatic industry and
some of the most important relationships are developed through
having some insight from doing different things in business over
37 years,” White said in a telephone interview. “The North
American energy business is going to have tremendous opportunity
during this next decade with the ability to grow faster than the
U.S. and world economies.”  This year Lazard has added David Cecil, a former Houston-
based banker at  Bank of Nova Scotia , and Mark Renton, a former
vice chairman at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to its global energy advisory
group.  The Hamilton, Bermuda-based advisory firm ranked 17th among
financial advisers on global energy deals last year, trailing
Rothschild and  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Lazard’s global energy practice will benefit from White’s
“insight, experience and relationships,” Antonio Weiss, the
firm’s global head of investment banking, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  