-- GE to Air Lease Boost Boeing as Airlines’ Orders Dwindle
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-07-11T11:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/ge-to-air-lease-boost-boeing-as-airlines-plane-orders-dwindle.html
Jet-leasing companies are delivering
a $19.7 billion windfall for  Boeing Co. (BA)  at the Farnborough air
show even as airlines keep their checkbooks closed.  Orders and commitments from buyers ranging from  General
Electric Co. (GE) ’s plane leasing unit to Steven Udvar-Hazy’s  Air
Lease Corp. (AL)  gave Boeing a head start over Airbus SAS to open the
year’s highest-profile aerospace industry trade event. Airbus
jumped in today with deals for about $4.4 billion.  Lessors are stepping up after many airlines moved to renew
their fleets in 2011, often with Airbus’s new A320neo, and are
holding off on planes as the global economy slows. The companies
can place more-efficient jets with carriers seeking to cut fuel
bills and prepare for passenger traffic that Boeing predicts may
rise 5 percent annually for the next two decades.  “Aircraft leasing is a growth industry and they are
positioning themselves for global growth,”  Ray Neidl , an
analyst at Maxim Group in  New York , said in an e-mail. “The
leasing companies can get a better deal ordering in mass and
better financial terms since they have stronger balance sheets
than most airlines.”  Without the leasing deals, announcements at the Farnborough
International Air Show would have slowed to a trickle so far.
And unlike last year, when the haul from the show held in Paris
totaled 441 firm orders, this week’s action has been dominated
by agreements that aren’t yet complete.  ‘Quiet Show’  “We expected this to be a quiet show, order-wise, as 2011
was a likely peak order year,” Stephen Levenson, a Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. analyst in New York, said in a note to investors.
“But we are pleased to see continued demand for new, more fuel-
efficient and less maintenance-intensive airplanes.”  GE Capital Aviation Services, the world’s biggest aircraft
lessor, agreed yesterday to buy 75 of Boeing’s upgraded 737 Max
narrow-body jetliners and 25 of the current model in the show’s
largest transaction, valued at $9.25 billion at list prices.  Air Lease , founded by industry veteran Udvar-Hazy, ordered
75 737s on July 9 worth $7.2 billion. Kuwait-based Aviation
Lease & Finance Co., known as Alafco, will acquire 20 of the
planes at a list price of $1.9 billion. Avolon Aerospace Leasing
Ltd. agreed today to take as many as 30 737s in a deal that
Boeing said had a list value of $2.3 billion. Airlines typically
buy at a discount.  Airbus Agreements  Airbus’s accords today were both with lessors.  CIT Group
Inc. (CIT)  is taking five A330 wide-bodies, and China Aircraft Leasing
Co. agreed to acquire 36 jets from the current A320 line.  Airbus’s sales this week include four A320neo-family jets
to Arkia Israeli Airlines Ltd.  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) 
agreed to buy 10 of the largest A350 wide-bodies, and said it
would swap orders of 16 smaller A350s for the biggest model.  Europe ’s debt crisis is spurring banks to trim financing of
plane purchases, pushing airlines to seek other options to
overhaul their fleets, Udvar-Hazy said in an interview.  “The airlines now need the lessors more as a source of
funding,” Udvar-Hazy said. “The French banks, some of the U.K.
banks, the German banks have really cut back on aircraft
financing.”  This week’s transactions gave a vote of confidence in
Boeing’s Max, which had gone without an order from a lessor
since being introduced last year to challenge the A320neo. Both
planemakers are reconfiguring the top-selling narrow-body lines
with new engines to boost  fuel efficiency  and reliability.  Max Support  CIT Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Knittel, who has not
ordered the Boeing Max, said he’s still in negotiations over the
aircraft.  “The airplane has been evolving over time, and as
airplanes evolve, they improve,” he said at the show. “The
discussion continues, and it’s both a discussion about
performance of the airpane, and oviously the pricing
discussions, and when we have comfort in both those areas we’re
more likely to go forward.”  Airbus had 1,425 neo orders heading into the show, more
than three times as many as Boeing’s haul of 451 for the Max.  While lessors own about 35 percent of the installed
airliner base, they only account for about 20 percent of
planemakers’ order backlog, said  Yan Derocles , an analyst at
Oddo Securities in Paris. After retrenching on orders during the
financial crisis that followed the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., many have some catching up to do, he
said.  Boeing expects orders to come this year from both airlines
and leasing companies, Beverly Wyse, the 737 program chief, said
in an interview. It’s more a coincidence that lessors have
placed orders during the show, she said, citing earlier sales to
 Southwest Airlines (LUV)  Co., Lion Air Inc. and Virgin  Australia .  ‘Timing Thing’  “It’s just a timing thing right now,” Wyse said. “You’ll
see more airline orders and leasing orders in the month to
come.”  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  may shift the focus back
to airline sales.  The world’s biggest carrier is poised to announce an order
for 100 737s tomorrow in  Chicago  in a transaction with a
possible list value of $8.4 billion, said people familiar with
the matter who asked not to be identified because the deal isn’t
public.  United is unusual in the U.S. industry. The next three
largest U.S. airlines were all part of the rush to add new
single-aisle jets in the last half of 2011, and haven’t been
shopping for new mainline jets.  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  split a record order for 460
jets between Boeing and Airbus in July 2011. The following month
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  said it would acquire 100 737s. Southwest
agreed in December to buy 208 737s in an order that was the
first for the Max.  Leasing companies will continue to outpace airlines on
orders, Alafco Chairman and CEO Ahmad al-Zabin said. Over the
next eight years, lessors probably will grow to make up as much
as half of plane orders, he said.  “Airlines more and more are going to leasing for the
economics of it,” al-Zabin said in an interview. “It’s only
going to increase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in Farnborough at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  