-- Geneva Bankers Tap Old Ties to Find Riches Amid Arab Spring
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-07-11T08:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/geneva-bankers-tap-old-ties-to-find-new-riches-amid-arab-spring.html
Geneva’s bankers, who forged the
biggest offshore hub for the Middle East super-rich after  Saudi
Arabia ’s  King Fahd  built a summer palace in the city 35 years
ago, are using the Arab Spring to counter client withdrawals.  Lombard Odier & Cie. plans to double assets under
management for Middle East clients to 10 billion to 15 billion
Swiss francs ($15.7 billion) over five years, said Arnaud Leclercq, head of Middle East and new markets at Geneva’s oldest
private bank.  “New money is coming from the Middle East,” said Bernard Droux, one of eight managing partners at Lombard Odier. “The
Arab Spring has created some instability in the big Arab
countries, and they are happy to go to  Switzerland  as they have
been doing for the last 50 years.”  Swiss banks are becoming more dependent on wealthy Middle
East customers as a crackdown on  tax evasion  pushes American and
European clients to pull funds from the world’s largest cross-
border financial center. While Middle East and North African
assets in Switzerland climbed 14 percent to 560 billion francs
last year, the Alpine country’s share of the region’s wealth
will also come under pressure,  Boston Consulting Group  said.  A Saudi-registered Rolls Royce outside the Grand Hotel
Kempinski and hijab-clad mothers pushing strollers along the
Quai du Mont Blanc herald Geneva’s seasonal transformation to a
refuge from the heat of the Persian Gulf summer. Security,
political stability and private banking make Geneva a magnet for
Middle East elites, said Nabil Jean Sab head of wealth manager
Cie. Privee de Conseils et d’Investissments SA.  Offshore Banking  “When we start hearing the Arabic music in the streets of
Geneva, we know we’re going to receive demands at short notice
to receive clients,” said Sab, a Lebanese-born naturalized
Swiss. “The Swiss brand is already widely known.”  Most Middle East wealth in Switzerland is held in Geneva,
said Heiner Weber, who heads an office in the city for Falcon
Private Bank Ltd., which is owned by  Abu Dhabi ’s government-
controlled Aabar Investments PJSC.  “While important families from the Gulf tend to do their
commercial banking with banks from their region, they prefer to
keep their private affairs separate and offshore,” said Weber.
“They educate their children at Geneva’s lakeside schools and
appreciate the safety and privacy.”  Elite Destination  Geneva, which became a refuge in the 1960s for Egyptian
cotton merchants fleeing President Gamal Abdel Nasser, developed
as a Middle East banking center after King Fahd constructed a
palace in the lakeside suburb of Collonge-Bellerive, where he
held councils on summer evenings, said Alain Bittar, who has
owned an Arabic bookshop in the city since 1979.  “The most important Saudi people came here to meet,” said
Bittar, who counts among his customers many of the ruling
families in the Arabian Gulf. “Geneva became a destination for
the elites attracted by the banking system.”  Lombard Odier serves a Middle East market, estimated by
Boston Consulting to contain $4.5 trillion of private wealth,
through 30 relationship managers in Geneva and  London  and 10 in
the Dubai office it opened in 2006. Future hires will be focused
on the United Arab Emirates as the firm targets entrepreneurs in
the construction, engineering and consumer goods industries,
Middle East head Leclercq said.  While  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the biggest Swiss
wealth managers, and Basel-based Bank Sarasin & Cie. AG also
manage Middle East client money from Geneva, the city’s private
banks are seeking to maintain their advantage by building a
direct presence in the Arabian Gulf.  Client Proximity  Pictet & Cie., Geneva’s biggest private bank,  Banque Privee
Edmond de Rothschild SA (RLD)  and Mirabaud & Cie. have all opened
offices in Dubai in the last five years.  “Pictet has long-standing relationships with wealthy
individuals and families in the region,” said Allard Lugard,
the bank’s head of  wealth management  for the Middle East.
“Those economies are still growing faster than the industrial
countries in Europe and America.”  Notz Stucki & Cie SA, a Geneva-based  money manager  focused
on funds of  hedge funds , started seeking clients this year with
at least $1 million from a new base in  Bahrain .  “Many Swiss banks are trying to increase proximity to
their Middle Eastern clients by placing relationship managers in
the region,” said Peter Damisch, head of wealth management at
Boston Consulting.  Status Threatened  That won’t be enough to prevent the proportion of  Middle
East  wealth invested through Swiss private banks eroding over
time, said Damisch.  Geneva’s status as an offshore center is threatened by
increased competition from  Singapore  and  Hong Kong , said Chirag
Thakral, a Hyderabad, India-based consultant with Cap Gemini SA.  While Geneva’s banks have boosted their Middle East wealth
since the start of the Arab Spring 19 months ago, rivals are
trying to capitalize on moves by the Swiss government to freeze
assets of the toppled the rulers of Tunisia,  Egypt  and Libya,
said Weber of Falcon Bank.  “We have to continually explain this issue to customers,”
he said. “They want their assets in a place which doesn’t
aggressively or randomly freeze them.”  Switzerland froze 650 million francs of assets connected to
Libyan state companies and ousted leader  Muammar Qaddafi , plus
other funds belonging to ex-Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  and
former Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  Historic Destination  Four Swiss banks may face financial penalties or bans on
individual employees because their approach to clients connected
to the frozen assets of the deposed leaders was “inadequate,”
Switzerland’s Financial Markets Supervisory Authority said in
November.  While air  passenger traffic  between Geneva and the Middle
East and North Africa climbed by 14 percent to more than 1
million last year as Emirates Airline opened a new route from
Dubai, younger visitors from the Arabian Gulf are curtailing
their trips.  “Geneva is a historic destination for the Middle-East,”
said Thierry Lavalley, general manager of the Kempinski, where
Saudi royals are the main customers for the 50,000-franc-a-night
penthouse suite that comes with a chef and walls covered in
chamois leather and silk. “While new generations continue to
visit us as their parents and grandparents did and still do,
these new generations make their stay shorter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  