-- German Court Says Parliament’s Approval to ‘Be Respected’
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-07-10T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/german-court-says-parliament-s-approval-to-be-respected-.html
Germany ’s top court said a decision
on whether to suspend legislation for the euro bloc’s permanent
bailout fund and fiscal treaty could take months rather than
weeks due to the complexity of the ruling.  The  Federal Constitutional Court  in Karlsruhe heard
arguments yesterday on whether to put German approval of the
European Stability Mechanism and fiscal pact on hold until it
rules on their legality. Both houses of parliament approved the
new laws on June 29 with a two-thirds majority. German President
 Joachim Gauck  withheld his signature due to legal challenges
that were discussed at the hearing.  “The legislature fundamentally holds broad leeway for
discretion, which the constitutional court must respect,” court
President Andreas Vosskuhle said, adding that the principle
counts particularly with a two-thirds mandate. Still, “arriving
at a decision is not easy in many respects.” He signaled the
court may take a more deliberative approach to its initial
decision, potentially further delaying the ESM from coming into
force.  The complaints targeting the ESM and fiscal pact were
brought by a group of lawmakers, academics and political groups
filing separate suits seeking an injunction. They argue that the
legislation designed to overcome the three-year-old debt crisis
transfers constitutionally mandated authority from German
lawmakers to Brussels and undermines democratic rule.  Worsening Crisis  Vosskuhle at one point asked Rolf Strauch, a board member
for the euro-area’s temporary bailout fund, what the effects 
would be if the court took a longer time -- months rather than
the usual few weeks -- to decide on an injunction.  “I think a time frame of two or three months, or even
longer, would be quite risky,” Strauch responded during the
hearing which lasted almost 11 hours.  The court didn’t say when it will make its ruling.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  warned that a
delay in the activation of the ESM “could lead to a significant
worsening of the current crisis.”  An injunction “could mean huge broader uncertainty in
markets far beyond Germany and a huge loss of confidence in the
euro area -- and in its ability to make necessary decisions in
sufficient time,” Schaeuble told the court.  Yet the  Finance Ministry  said in a statement yesterday
after the hearing that  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government is
“confident” the ESM and the fiscal pact are in accord with the
constitution of Europe’s biggest economy.  The euro fell to a two-year low of $1.2235 in  New York 
trading yesterday, and traded at $1.2255 at 9:49 p.m. yesterday
in  Frankfurt .  ‘No Guarantee’  German Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann told the court
that while stopping the ESM and fiscal pact would pose risks,
“a quick ratification of the ESM and the fiscal pact is no
guarantee that the crisis doesn’t worsen.”  Among the plaintiffs are the group “More Democracy,”
which filed its suit on behalf of some 23,000 people who signed
a petition saying that “parliaments are being disempowered.”
Lawmakers from the opposition Left Party -- the successor to
former East Germany’s ruling communists -- as well as Peter
Gauweiler, a lawmaker from the Bavarian sister party of Merkel’s
 Christian Democrats , also filed briefs.  Yesterday’s hearing didn’t assess the legality of the laws.
Instead, the court will decide whether the complaints have
sufficient merit to stop the legislation before it makes a final
assessment on whether it’s constitutional. The ESM and fiscal
pact would go into force if the court rejects the complaints and
President Gauck signs the legislation.  Court’s Record  Germany’s high court has a record of approving EU
integration with caveats. A 1993 judgment cleared the European
Union’s Maastricht Treaty, which gave birth to the euro. At the
time, the judges said Germany must ensure that EU rule making
remains democratic. The court threw out a 1998 lawsuit aimed at
stopping the euro as “manifestly unfounded.”  Last September, the court rejected challenges to German
participation in a bailout for  Greece  and in  Europe ’s temporary
rescue fund. It ordered Merkel’s government to seek special
parliamentary approval for bailout payments.  Vosskuhle, in a Sept. 26 television interview, said the
high court must “fundamentally accept it” if lawmakers
concluded that those commitments don’t overstretch German
resources. “We’re not a political branch of government.”  The court’s view since the Maastricht ruling has been
“that European integration requires democratic responsibility
and that the parliament is at the center of this
responsibility,” the chief justice said on ZDF television.  Vosskuhle directly addressed the issue of democratic
legitimacy in his opening statements yesterday.  Democracy  “Europe needs democratic, constitutional states just as
democratic, constitutional states need Europe,” Vosskuhle said.
“Whoever reduces this relationship to one side loses the
other.”  German Deputy Finance Minister Steffen Kampeter pointed to
parliament’s cross-party vote in favor of the ESM and said he
expects the high court to reject a delay.  “I don’t expect anything on the baseline to change,” he
said in an interview with  Maryam Nemazee  on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” in  London  on July 9.  “There might be challenges we have to solve,” he said.
“But in general there is a strong commitment, not only by the
government in Germany, but by the opposition, with a two-thirds
majority, to support the establishment” of the ESM.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Karlsruhe, Germany at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  