-- Gillard Falters as Poll Shows Abbott Preferred Australia Leader
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-07-10T00:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/gillard-falters-as-poll-shows-abbott-preferred-australia-leader.html
Australian opposition leader  Tony Abbott  is the nation’s preferred leader, overtaking Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  after new taxes took effect 16 months
before an election must be held, a poll showed.  Thirty-nine percent of voters prefer Abbott as leader, up 1
percentage point from a previous survey, according to a Newspoll
published in today’s Australian newspaper. Australia’s first
female prime minister slipped 3 points to 36 percent, it showed.
The opposition party extended its lead over Labor by 2 points to
a 12-point margin on a two-party basis, which takes into account
the nation’s preferential voting system.  Gillard is running out of time to turn around her
government’s performance in the polls, which has been weakened
by taxes this month and lawmaker scandals that have eroded
Labor’s control of parliament. Her political standing fell
further two weeks ago when her bid to break a political
stalemate over refugees failed after Abbott’s Liberal-National
coalition rejected the laws.  “Abbott would have to have a spectacular fall to not be
the next prime minister of Australia,” said John Wanna, a
professor of public administration at the Canberra-based
 Australian National University . “Gillard’s policies just aren’t
resonating with the voters.”  Abbott has been seeking to undermine her government’s one-
seat majority in parliament. This month he will attend the
Australian American Leadership Dialogue in  Washington  and New
York before going to  China , the Age newspaper reported today.  Party Support  Labor’s primary vote rose 1 percentage point to 31 percent,
while support for the opposition Liberal-National coalition
increased 2 points to 48 percent, according to Newspoll. The
survey of 1,141 people, conducted July 6-8, had a margin of
error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  After the closest election in seven decades, Gillard
cobbled together a minority government in September 2010 with
support from independents and Greens, who pledged their votes in
parliament. In return, she backtracked on a promise not to
create a tax on  carbon emissions , which was implemented on July
1 along with new levies on  iron ore  and coal mining profits.  Gillard has been betting increased benefit payments to low-
and middle-income households from revenue generated by the new
taxes would alleviate a voter backlash.  “The cash handouts don’t seem to have worked at this
stage, and voters are yet to receive higher electricity bills
due to the carbon tax, so Gillard may not get any traction from
this,” Wanna said.  Refugee Debate  Lawmakers with the Greens on June 28 joined Abbott’s
Liberal-National opposition in rejecting the government’s
proposals to allow asylum seekers to be processed in Malaysia
and Nauru.  Abbott has called for the resignation of Craig Thomson from
parliament after the former Labor lawmaker, whose vote Gillard
relies on to pass laws, dismissed allegations he used a union
credit card to pay for prostitutes.  Tony Crook , a National party member of parliament for
 Western Australia  who voted as an independent, in May withdrew
his support for the government.  Peter Slipper , the parliamentary
speaker on whom Gillard had relied to solidify her control of
the house, in April stepped aside to deal with fraud and sexual
harassment claims that he denies.  “This is going to be a long, hard race,” Defense Minister
Stephen Smith told reporters in Brisbane today. “In the end
there’s only one poll that counts,” the election next year, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  