-- GM Offers Chevy No-Haggle Prices, Money-Back Guarantees
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-07-10T20:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/gm-offers-chevy-no-haggle-prices-money-back-guarantees.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , seeking to clear
out end-of-model-year vehicles, said it will offer no-haggle
pricing on 2012  Chevrolet  cars and trucks plus a money-back
guarantee on all new Chevys as the brand loses ground to Toyota.  The promotions begin today at participating dealers and run
through Sept. 4,  Jim Cain , a GM spokesman, said. The 60-day,
money-back guarantee, dubbed Love it or Return it, applies to
all 2012 and 2013 Chevrolets, the company said today in a
statement. The no-haggle program pledges to offer 2012 vehicles
at the “best possible prices” in addition to current
incentives, the company said in the statement.  Such programs are “marginally effective,” Dennis Virag,
president of Automotive Consulting Group based in  Ann Arbor ,
 Michigan , said today in a telephone interview. “There will be
some buyers, but I don’t think it’s going to attract a large
number of new customers for Chevy.”  GM is trying to boost Chevy as the brand faces greater
pressure from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  as its U.S. sales recover from
inventory shortages last year. U.S. sales of Chevrolet, GM’s
largest brand, rose 6.3 percent to 961,662 cars and light trucks
in the first half, a slower pace than the industrywide increase
of 15 percent, according to researcher Autodata Corp. Toyota’s
namesake brand gained 29 percent to 937,964.  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s flagship brand was No. 1 in the U.S.
during the first half at 1.1 million light vehicles, according
to Autodata.  Cruze, Malibu  Sales of the Cruze compact, Chevy’s main small car, fell
7.4 percent in the first half while deliveries of Malibu mid-
sized sedans rose 15 percent. The model year is ending as
Chevrolet is introducing the new Spark subcompact and redesigned
Malibu.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson, who oversaw GM
regaining its title of world’s largest automaker last year and
posting a record full-year profit of $9.19 billion, is pushing
the company to boost operating margins and strengthen Cadillac
and Chevrolet as global brands.  GM slid 2.1 percent to $19.80 at the close in  New York .  Rebecca Lindland , an industry analyst with IHS Automotive,
said the new promotions, which GM calls its Chevy Confidence
program, address two things car shoppers dread: haggling and
commitment.  “Americans aren’t great at haggling and we are expected to
do so on the two biggest purchases we face: real estate and
autos,” she said today in an e-mail. “This Chevrolet
Confidence program alleviates the issue of haggling and
eliminates ‘buyer’s remorse.’”  No Haggle  The no-haggle sales price, called Total Confidence Pricing,
and the return policy harken back to previous sales programs
offered by GM. The company’s Saturn included no-haggle buying
before the brand ended as part of GM’s bankruptcy reorganization
in 2009.  After exiting bankruptcy, GM offered a similar 60-day,
money-back guarantee for its vehicles in a campaign dubbed May
the Best Car Win, which included an appearance in television
advertisements by then-Chairman  Ed Whitacre .  The number of vehicles returned during that program
represented less than 1 percent of sales, GM’s Cain said in a
telephone interview.  Akerson won’t appear in ads for the new campaign, which
will include television spots during tonight’s Major League
Baseball All-Star Game and the  Summer Olympics , GM said.  The Love it or Return it campaign covers autos that are
financed or bought for cash and excludes leased vehicles, Cain
said. The vehicle must have no more than 4,000 miles and the
buyer can’t be behind on payments.  Chrysler Incentive  “We have transformed the Chevrolet lineup, so there is no
better time than now to reach out to new customers with a
satisfaction guarantee and very attractive, bottom line
pricing,” Chris Perry, Chevrolet’s vice president of marketing,
said in GM’s statement.  Chrysler Group LLC separately said today that it’s
returning to a previous incentive program to boost sales this
month. The company said it will let buyers put off monthly
payments for the first 90 days in a national promotion that
applies to all of its vehicles.  The offer runs through the end of the month, according to
 Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler’s  website . The deal is
similar to an incentive that helped boost Chrysler’s May
deliveries by 30 percent from a year earlier. Chrysler is
controlled by  Fiat SpA. (F)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  