-- Goldmanite Moyo Foresees War as China Locks in Resources
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-07-10T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/goldmanite-moyo-foresees-war-as-china-locks-in-resources.html
As with shoppers, so with nations:
What they buy reveals what they need and desire.  China ’s acquisitions in recent years have included tons of
copper inside a Peruvian mountain, 20 years’ worth of Russian
crude, and vast tracts of fertile land across Africa and  South
America .  The pattern of conquest couldn’t be clearer. The Chinese
have embarked on a “commodity crusade,” becoming the
preeminent buyer of resources ranging from metals to foodstuffs,
as Dambisa Moyo writes in “Winner Take All,” a book that
investor  Jim Rogers  calls a must read.  The astonishing thing, judging from this jeremiad, isn’t
that China is locking in supplies. The real curiosity is that
other nations aren’t doing more to stave off potential shortages
of food, energy and water as surging populations and wealth put
unprecedented pressure on Earth’s resources.  “With precision, execution and foresight, China is doing
everything to be prepared for that fateful moment,” the former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  banker writes. “But for the rest,
without focus and concerted efforts many hundreds of millions of
people will face famine, conflict and worse.”  Malthusian Cataclysm  Moyo, a Zambian-born economist with a doctorate from Oxford
and a master’s from Harvard, is a contrarian by nature. In
“Dead Aid,” she argued that foreign aid has immiserated
millions of Africans instead of helping them. In “How the West
Was Lost,” she urged advanced economies to stop squandering
their lead.  “Winner Take All” revives the views of Thomas Malthus,
the Anglican clergyman who argued in 1798 that the population
tends to grow faster than the  food supply . The grim result:
recurring wars, famines and epidemics. Though mankind has so far
escaped a Malthusian cataclysm, the fear persists, as can be
seen from Moyo’s opening survey of global supply and demand.  The world’s population may reach 10 billion by 2050, and
the greatest growth is forecast for regions where wealth is
expected to rise at the fastest pace, she writes. Can the planet
provide enough food, water, energy and other commodities to
allow ever more people to eat as well as Belgians, drive as fast
as Germans and shop as much as Americans?  Moyo lets the reader decide by ladling out statistics,
tables and charts documenting the planet’s limited supplies of
fresh water, oil, metals and arable land (about 11 percent of
the surface not covered by water).  Chery QQs  On the demand side, she cites China’s urbanization drive,
which envisions building about 225 new cities with one million
inhabitants each by 2020. That will require tons of copper for
plumbing and wiring, mountains of coal for electricity
generation, and innumerable barrels of oil to keep thousands of
Chery QQs and other new cars humming down China’s new highways.  The Communist cadres know that their hold on power depends
on improving the economic lot of the Chinese people, especially
the 800 million still trapped in rural poverty. So they’re not
taking chances.  To ensure they can ship commodities home quickly, China is
rolling out railways and other infrastructure in  Africa  and
South America. Many of the project workers are Chinese, helping
curb domestic unemployment. The upshot is a web of symbiotic
relationships in which China secures resources, creates jobs and
makes friends.  Strategic ‘Genius’  “This is the genius of the China strategy: every country
gets what it wants,” Moyo says.  The danger, she argues, is that China may be becoming a
monopsonist -- a commodity buyer with the clout to dictate terms
to sellers. The Chinese could, in essence, raise bids so high
that they price others out of the market. Imagine bidding wars
with state-owned companies whose cost of capital is almost zero.  Though Moyo’s writing lacks zing, her sharp perceptions and
lucid exposition merit the jacket blurb from Jim Rogers.  “You must read this book if you want to understand the
reality of what’s happening in the world today,” says the
investor who co-founded Quantum Fund with  George Soros . “I’m
afraid the West is going to wake up too late to prepare for the
future.”  The praise is somewhat inflated. The warning is not.  “Winner Take All” is published by  Basic  in the U.S. and
by  Allen Lane  in the U.K. (257 pages, $26.99, 20 pounds). To buy
this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on London dining,
 Ryan Sutton  on  New York  dining and  Zinta Lundborg  interviews.  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 