-- Google Privacy Report Due in September, France’s CNIL Says
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-07-10T12:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/google-privacy-report-due-in-september-france-s-cnil-says-1-.html
France ’s data-protection authority
will report to other European regulators by early September on
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s changes to its privacy policies.  Google’s responses to the regulator’s second round of
questions came about two weeks late, delaying the report,
Isabelle Falque-Pierrotin, head of the agency, said today.
Google’s responses to initial queries weren’t “entirely
satisfactory,” she said.  “We have been engaged in extremely close discussions”
with Google on privacy policies, Falque-Pierrotin said at a
Paris press conference for the release of the agency’s annual
report.  Google’s privacy protections are “the key subject” for
European data protection authorities, Falque-Pierrotin said. The
agencies, known collectively as the Article 29 Working Group,
asked CNIL, or the National Commission for Computing and Civil
Liberties, to review Google’s policy changes after the  Mountain
View , California-based company in January announced an overhaul
to comply with European standards.  Google filed its response to the regulator’s second round
of queries on June 21.  “Our new simple, easy-to-read Privacy Policy is
supplemented by a vast array of contextual, in-product privacy
notices” and is “in compliance with European data protection
principles,” according to a cover letter from  Peter Fleischer ,
Google’s global privacy counsel.  As part of his letter, Fleischer asked Falque-Pierrotin to
identify the “law you are applying to this review, and the
nature of the legal basis for any recommendations or conclusions
you may arrive at.”  Under Review  Google declined to comment further on the review, spokesman
Anthony House said today.  Twitter Inc. “is part of the list” of online companies
with personal data policies that are under review, and it has
submitted responses to CNIL queries, Falque-Pierrotin said. CNIL
wants to ensure that “users are fully informed that their
tweets can be used at other times,” she said, referring to
posts on Twitter.  San Francisco-based Twitter, which is closely held, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  CNIL is also studying how U.S. authorities investigating
 money laundering  and other crimes study Europeans’ personal
data, including banking and travel records.  “Very honestly, the precise uses of the information by the
American authorities seems to me to be extremely vague,”
Falque-Pierrotin said. “It’s a subject on which we are
extremely mobilized.”  At CNIL’s urging, privacy authorities in Ireland are
conducting a second audit of  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s Dublin facilities
to ensure the company complies with EU rules, after the French
found the company’s initial responses inadequate. The Irish
report is expected by early September, Falque-Pierrotin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  