-- Greencore ‘Comfortable’ on Goals After Jubilee Boost, CEO Says
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-07-10T12:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/greencore-comfortable-on-goals-after-jubilee-boost-ceo-says.html
Greencore Group Plc, which supplies
convenience foods to all of the U.K.’s main supermarket chains,
is “very comfortable” with its financial goals for the year,
helped by sales from events around Queen Elizabeth II’s Diamond
Jubilee, Chief Executive Officer Patrick Coveney said.  “We had a very, very good positive volume uplift
associated with all the Jubilee events” of early June, Coveney
said in an interview at the company’s Dublin headquarters.
Business since then has been affected by flooding in many parts
of the U.K., “so there are swings and roundabouts,” he said.  Greencore, the world’s largest sandwich maker, continues to
target “good underlying revenue growth and strong growth in
adjusted earnings per share” for this financial year, the CEO
said. Still, revenue growth from continuing operations will
probably slow from the near 10 percent pace of the first half
after Greencore bought U.K. food company Uniq Plc, he said.  “With the size of our business and the maturity of some of
these categories, to continue to target close to double-digit
like-for-like revenue growth I don’t think makes a lot of
sense,” Coveney said. Greencore’s longer-term growth target of
more than 5 percent is a more “balanced number,” he said.  Greencore sales for the first half ended March 30 from
continuing operations rose 9.3 percent to 541.7 million pounds
($842 million) and it recorded net income of 15.4 million pounds
compared with a loss of 563,000 pounds a year earlier.  The Irish company last month acquired H.C. Schau & Son,
Inc., a U.S. fresh-food manufacturer. The acquisition was its
second in the U.S. in four months following the purchase of
Marketfare Foods, with a total outlay of more than $50 million.  The purchase of Schau was in part triggered by Greencore’s
need for additional production facilities to supply a “large
small-store operator,” who Coveney declined to identify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  