-- Greentech Offer for Fersa Approved by Spain’s Market Regulator
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-07-10T17:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/greentech-offer-for-fersa-approved-by-spain-s-market-regulator.html
Spain ’s stock-market regulator
approved a 56 million-euro ($69 million) takeover bid by
 Greentech Energy Systems A/S (GES)  of  Fersa Energias Renovables SA. (FRS)   The offer of 40 euro cents per share for 100 percent of
Barcelona-based Fersa was approved by the Comision Nacional del
Mercado de Valores, according to a statement from Greentech’s
headquarters in Copenhagen today.  Greentech is seeking to buy companies in distress due to
the  European debt crisis  and plans to boost renewable capacity
to 1 gigawatt by the end of 2013. It operates about 300
megawatts of projects in countries such as  Italy , Germany Spain,
Poland and Denmark. The enlarged company would reach 600
megawatts of capacity and gain Greentech entry to India, France
and  Estonia , according to the statement.  Greentech’s offer includes a 14.3 percent premium on
Fersa’s closing trading price today, equal to 35 euro cents,
according to the statement.  The offer depends on acceptance by shareholders with more
than 50 percent of Fersa’s voting rights and that Fersa keeps
ownership and “economical rights” over a number of wind parks.  Greentech Chairman Peter Hostgaard-Jensen said in an
interview last month that the company received unofficial
signals of interest from “significant” Fersa shareholders whom
he declined to name. The new group will have income of about 120
million euros, with Ebitda of around 80 million euros, according
to today’s statement.  Greentech’s offer values Fersa at 56 million euros based on
its 140 million shares outstanding. Combined with Fersa’s debt,
the takeover transaction is worth about 300 million euros,
Greentech Chief Executive Officer Sigieri Diaz della Vittoria
Pallavicini said in. The market value of Fersa is about 49
million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  