-- I’ll Have Another Sold for $10 Million After Triple Crown Miss
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/i-ll-have-another-sold-for-10-million-after-triple-crown-miss.html
I’ll Have Another, whose chance to
become the first Triple Crown winner since 1978 was derailed by
a torn leg tendon, was sold to a Japanese breeder for $10
million because the top U.S. offer was about $3 million.  “The one offer was four times higher in cash than the best
offer here,” owner J. Paul Reddam said yesterday in a blog
posted on  Bloodhorse.com . “I couldn’t rationalize not selling
him overseas.”  Reddam bought the 3-year-old thoroughbred colt for $35,000
and I’ll Have Another won horse racing’s Kentucky Derby and
 Preakness Stakes  before being retired the day before the Belmont
Stakes because of a small tendon tear in his left front leg.  Reddam, a former philosophy professor who sold subprime
mortgage firm DiTech Mortgage Corp. to General Motors Co. in
1999 for $240 million, last month opted to sell I’ll Have
Another to Big Red Farm on the Japanese island of Hokkaido. He
said he wrote his blog post in response to criticism that
followed his decision to sell outside the U.S.  “Undoubtedly some folks would have kept the horse here
despite the money,” said Reddam, the founder of CashCall Inc.,
a company that makes mortgage and short-term loans. “If the
difference had been 2 million in valuation, I could have
justified it, but it wasn’t, so I did what I did.”  Reddam said he received two written offers from American
farms, one for $3 million and the other for $2.5 million. Big
Red Farms offered $10 million and another Japanese farm made a
bid for slightly less, Reddam said.  Stud Fee  “Beyond that, however, it should be said that the American
offer anticipated a stud fee of $17,500 to $20,000, which means
that he wouldn’t get the best mares and thus wouldn’t be given
the best chance to succeed as a stallion,” Reddam wrote. “In
contrast, the Big Red offer means that he will get a much better
book of mares, and thus be given a higher chance for success. I
am hopeful that we can buy a few of those mares in foal and
bring them back to  California .”  I’ll Have Another won the  Kentucky Derby  on May 5 and the
Preakness Stakes two weeks later. He was favored to become the
first Triple Crown champion since Affirmed in 1978 before being
scratched.  Reddam said the injury was similar to a tear in the seam of
a pair of pants. While a person could keep wearing the pants and
they might hold up a time or two, they’d eventually rip.  “Knowing this could happen, there was no choice but to
scratch,” Reddam said, adding that the decision was made in
less than a minute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  