-- Libyan Islamists Say Results Unclear, Opponents Use Trickery
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n   a n d   B r i g i t t e   S c h e f f e r
-- 2012-07-11T14:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/libyan-islamists-refuse-to-concede-poll-defeat-condemn-tricks.html
Libya ’s Muslim Brotherhood refused
to concede defeat at the hands of a U.S.-educated academic and
accused opponents of campaign trickery.  Partial results from Libya’s elections commission showing
that the Muslim Brotherhood’s Justice and Construction party had
been beaten into second place did not prove the group’s defeat,
said Alamin Belhaj, the party’s campaign manager, in an
interview.  “Nobody can predict the result of the election,” he said
in an interview at the party campaign headquarters, a villa in
Tripoli’s Bin Ashour district, yesterday. Belhaj said the party
would do better than early results suggested and would not join
a coalition led by the National Forces Alliance of Mahmoud Jibril, a former opposition leader who holds a  University of
Pittsburgh  PhD. Final results, which were due today, may not be
announced until tomorrow or July 13, officials said today.  Libyans went to the polls on July 7 in their first free
national election in more than 40 years, amid political violence
that’s hampered efforts to rebuild after last year’s uprising to
overthrow  Muammar Qaddafi . Libyan Islamist groups had sought to
emulate the success of counterparts in  Tunisia  and Egypt, a
trend which culminated in the election of the Muslim
Brotherhood-backed Mohamed Mursi as Egypt’s president last
month.  Overwhelming Wins  The Brotherhood’s party was pushed into second place in all
three multi-seat regions where results were declared on July 9,
with the Alliance winning two. Jibril’s grouping beat the
Justice and Construction party by 26,798 votes to 2,423 in
Janzour, a suburb of Tripoli, and by 19,200 to 5,626 in Zlitan,
a coastal town 100 miles east of the capital. A third party won
in Misrata.  Another batch of results released by the elections
commission last night showed further overwhelming wins for
Jibril’s grouping. The Alliance came first in three of the four
areas declared, including Tubruq, Sebha and Almaya, where it
garnered about 90 percent of the votes cast. The Brotherhood
took the southern seat of Brak, its first win.  Belhaj, a member of Libya’s transitional council, accused
the Alliance of unfair campaign tactics, like the use of
Jibril’s face on campaign posters even though he’s not standing
for the national assembly. “Mr. Jibril is not a candidate,
while his picture is all over the country, it’s a way of
tricking people,” he said. Belhaj said he was flying to  Egypt 
yesterday to congratulate President Mursi on his victory.  Party Lists  Preliminary returns from Benghazi, the country’s second-
biggest city, also showed Jibril’s Alliance taking more than 50
percent of the vote, according to the Libya Herald online
newspaper, which cited unnamed elections officials. Libya’s
political parties are competing for 80 seats, while individual
candidates vie for the other 120.  Qaddafi, who ruled the North African nation for 42 years,
was killed in October after eight months of fighting between
loyalists and rebels.  “The Muslim Brotherhood isn’t doing as well in Libya, as
they don’t have the same grass-roots organization as in Egypt or
Tunisia to gain and mobilize support,” Emad Mostaque, a London-
based emerging-markets strategist at Religare Noah, said by e-
mail. “Voting in Libya has gone along tribal and familial
lines.  The results are ‘‘great news for the country and the
Libyans,’’ said Osama Gandour, a student at Tripoli University.
Jibril ‘‘is the right man to lead us.’’  NATO Action  Jibril, who also taught strategic planning at the
 University of Pittsburgh  after his doctorate in 1985, became
head of national planning under Qaddafi in 2007 and worked with
his son Saif al-Islam on a new constitution. An observant
Muslim, he joined the opposition last year, becoming de facto
prime minister and helped direct  North Atlantic Treaty
Organization  action that crushed Qaddafi’s armed forces. He
describes his alliance as pro-business.  Jibril campaigned as a conservative pledging a secular
approach to government, which ‘‘probably suits a substantial
portion of the population,’’ Crispin Hawes, director of the
Mideast and North Africa program at the Eurasia Group said in an
interview yesterday. ‘‘Libyan government departments and state
companies are full of well-educated and technically-adept staff
that are also genuinely conservative and observant Muslims.
Jibril fits that very well.’’  Ahead of the election results, Jibril said he favored the
creation of a coalition.  ‘One Banner’  ‘‘We extend an invitation, continued as before, to other
political forces to come together in one coalition under one
banner,’’ Jibril, 60, said at a press conference in Tripoli.
‘‘This is a sincere call for all political parties to come
together.’’  Abdurrahman Sewehli, leader of the Union for Homeland
party, which came in first in the coastal city of Misrata, ruled
out working with Jibril on July 9, saying he had been too close
to the previous government.  ‘‘Misrata is the only place in Libya where Jibril is
getting nothing,’’ he said in a telephone interview. ‘‘Symbolism
is very important. Mr. Jibril is still representing the old
regime. He was very close to Qaddafi.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net ;
Brigitte Scheffer in Tripoli at 
 bscheffer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  