-- Micex Rallies on Putin Dividend, Asset Sale Call; RusHydro Jumps
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-07-10T15:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/micex-rallies-on-putin-dividend-asset-sale-call-rushydro-jumps.html
Russian stocks rose on bets the
government will push ahead with asset sales and boost dividends
at the country’s biggest companies.  The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added 0.6 percent to 1,422.58 by
the close in Moscow, after falling as much as 0.9 percent
earlier. OAO RusHydro surged 4 percent after President  Vladimir Putin  said the state won’t sell its stake at the current market
valuation. Preferred shares of OAO Sberbank, the nation’s
biggest lender, rose 2.9 percent.  Russia  is committed to selling state assets and energy
companies should consider increasing dividend payments to
increase their market value, Putin said at a meeting with
executives and government officials today. Emerging-market
stocks rose for the first time in five days as European leaders
moved to strengthen Spanish banks, easing concern the region’s
debt crisis will hit economic growth.  Putin’s comment “reaffirms the government’s commitment to
upgrading corporate governance at state-owned companies and
improving the Russian investment climate, of which increasing
dividends is a major feature,”  Bruce Bower , a partner at
Moscow-based hedge fund Verno, which manages more than $200
million in Russian equities, said by e-mail. “His comments
about Rushydro being undervalued remove the near-term risk of
stock overhang.”  RusHydro, the country’s biggest hydropower producer, closed
at 86.07 kopeks after the biggest gain since June 7.  Spain Bailout  “There’s been a lot of progress in  Europe  for the last few
weeks, the Spanish banks’ bailout today shows that European
leaders are stepping up their efforts,” Bower said by phone
earlier today.  Thirty billion euros ($37 billion) will be lent by the end
of July with the goal of eventually using the euro-area bailout
fund to recapitalize banks directly instead of saddling the
Spanish government with the debts, Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker  said.  Crude oil slumped 1.2 percent to $84.93 in  New York  after
rising as much as 2.4 percent yesterday. Oil and gas contribute
about 50 percent of Russia’s state revenue.  Investors should buy European stocks with sales in Russia
because economic growth in the world’s biggest energy exporter
will outperform the debt-stricken euro region, according to
Citigroup Inc.  “The point is that Russia has growth while Europe is
facing stagnation,”  Kingsmill Bond , chief strategist at
Citigroup in Moscow, said in a phone interview today. “A lot of
the growth that European companies will generate will be from
their Russian operations.”  Russia’s benchmark index, which has added 2.2 percent this
year, trades at 5.2 times  estimated earnings . That compares with
9.6 times projected earnings for MSCI’s emerging-market gauge,
which has gained 2.2 percent this year.  Russian equities  have  the cheapest valuations among 21
 emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg, reflecting concern the
country is too reliant on energy exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  