-- Independent Voter Surge Cuts Democrats’ Swing State Edge
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-07-10T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/independent-voter-surge-cuts-democrats-swing-state-edge.html
Independent voters are growing in
numbers at the expense of Democrats in battleground states most
likely to determine this year’s presidential election, a
Bloomberg News analysis shows.  The collective total of independents grew by about 443,000
in  Colorado ,  Florida ,  Iowa ,  Nevada , New Hampshire and  North
Carolina  since the 2008 election, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg from state election officials.  During the same time, Democrats saw a net decline of about
480,000 in those six states, while Republicans -- boosted in
part by a competitive primary earlier this year -- added roughly
38,000 voters in them, the analysis shows.  “Democrats hit the high-water mark for registration in
2008, so it’s natural that they are going to see some drop
off,” said  Michelle Diggles , a senior policy analyst with the
Democratic-leaning Third Way research group in  Washington  who
conducted a similar study earlier this year.  The rise of independent voters has had a major impact on
recent election results.  In 2008, President  Barack Obama  won 52 percent of the
independent vote, according to national  exit polls , which was
one percentage less than his overall total. Senator  John McCain 
of  Arizona , his Republican opponent, collected 44 percent of the
independent vote -- 2 points less than his overall total.
Independents represented 29 percent of the total electorate that
year.  Election Volatility  In 2006, independents backed Democrats by an 18-percentage-
point  margin  nationwide in House races, handing the party
control of the chamber for the first time in 12 years. In 2010,
they backed Republicans over Democrats in House races by a 19-
point  margin , as Republicans regained the chamber’s majority.  Independent voters are growing in numbers because of
dissatisfaction with Republicans and Democrats, Diggles said.  “Independents are really just fed up with both parties,”
she said. “Most elections are about the center and that’s where
the swing vote is going to come from.”  A Bloomberg survey taken June 15-18 showed 50 percent of
independents view the  Republican Party  unfavorably, while 47
percent say that about the  Democratic Party .  ’Freedom to Pick’  “I just want to be able to have the freedom to pick the
right person to do the right things for the country,” said poll
participant Kimberly Sullivan, 27, an independent voter who
lives in Nashua,  New Hampshire .  The registration advantage in the six battleground states
reviewed -- all of which Obama won in 2008 -- is split between
Democrats and independents. The states account for 69 electoral
votes, with 270 needed to win the White House.  Democrats are the top party in Florida, Nevada and North
Carolina, while independents hold that position in Colorado,
Iowa and New Hampshire. Ohio and  Virginia , two other
battlegrounds consistently identified by Democratic and
Republican strategists, don’t report registration statistics by
party identification.  The Bloomberg analysis included both active and inactive
voters in the states where that distinction was made in the
public data because some states don’t provide such a breakdown
and inactive voters can be restored to active status.  The campaigns for Obama and  Mitt Romney , the presumptive
Republican presidential nominee, are already working to register
additional voters ahead of November’s election and will spend
millions of dollars on the task.  Registration Versus Turnout  Higher voter registration doesn’t necessarily translate to
higher turnout. In the 1996 presidential election, registration
went up and turnout down, while the opposite happened four years
later with higher turnout amid lower registration,  according to 
American University’s Center for the Study of the American
Electorate in Washington.  The registration statistics also should be treated with
some skepticism, the center says, because some states do a
better job than others of purging the names of people who have
died or moved away.  In Florida, the state is in the process of removing
noncitizens from state voter rolls even after the U.S. Justice
Department cautioned the program may violate federal law. The
state, led by Republican Governor  Rick Scott , has removed at
least 107 alleged noncitizens from its voting rolls after
identifying about 180,000 questionable registrations in its
database of 11.2 million voters. State officials asked county
election supervisors in April to review a list of 2,700
potential noncitizens and remove ineligible voters.  Database Sought  The state won’t send any additional names to supervisors
until it gets access to the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security’s citizenship database, said Chris Cate, spokesman for
Florida’s secretary of state office.  Republicans in several states have also pushed for tougher
restrictions on voter registration, which Democrats and racial
minority groups often characterize as ways of discouraging
turnout.  The Republican Party of Iowa last week promoted in a news
release the roughly 21,000-person registration advantage its
party enjoys in that battleground state among “active” voters
-- although independents still outnumber them.  Iowa, as in some other states, breaks down its registered
voters by “active” and “inactive” status. Voters can be
classified as inactive if a piece of mail has been returned to
election officials as undeliverable and for other reasons.  Erasing Democrats  As inactive Democrats have been erased, Republicans this
year managed to move ahead with the most active registrations
for the first time in six years.  When active and inactive voters are included, the Iowa data
shows Republicans have gained about 40,000 registrants since
December 2008, while Democrats lost about 70,000.  Obama carried Iowa four years ago, with 54 percent of the
vote to McCain’s 44 percent.  New voters, especially among minority and youth
populations, helped Obama win the White House four years ago and
his re-election effort has started voter registration drives in
Hispanic and other neighborhoods in battleground states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  