-- Linklaters, Davis Polk, Sheppard Mullin, Loeb: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/linklaters-davis-polk-sheppard-mullin-loeb-business-of-law.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest
U.S. health insurer, agreed to buy  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  for $4.9
billion in cash to expand the number of Medicaid patients it
serves as the U.S. health plan for the poor undergoes broad
changes in how it is managed.  Linklaters LLP represented WellPoint while Skadden Arps
Slate Meagher & Flom LLP represented Amerigroup on the deal.
 Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  represented Goldman Sachs
as financial adviser to Amerigroup.  Linklaters’s  New York  partner Dan Dufner led the deal on
behalf of WellPoint. Other New York partners included Bindu
Culas, Jeff Schmidt, Jeff Norton and Gordon Warnke.  Skadden mergers and acquisitions partners Jeremy  London , in
 Washington , and Paul Schnell and Todd Freed in New York, worked
on the deal. New York partners Clifford Aronson and Ian John
advised on antitrust matters. Neil Leff handled executive
compensation and benefits in New York, and John Bentivoglio
advised on health care regulatory and litigation in Washington.  The Cleary Gottlieb team included New York partner Ethan Klingsberg.  Amerigroup stockholders will receive $92 a share, the
companies said in a statement yesterday. The amount is 43
percent higher than the closing price on July 6 for the Virginia
Beach, Virginia-based company.  The acquisition will make WellPoint the top private manager
of Medicaid benefits in the U.S., with 4.5 million members in
the program. The deal should also boost the value of other
insurers focusing on Medicaid, including  WellCare Health Plans
Inc. (WCG)  and  Molina Healthcare Inc. (MOH) , said Thomas Carroll, a Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. analyst in Baltimore.  The acquisition should be completed in the first quarter of
2013, the companies said. WellPoint will pay with cash on hand,
commercial paper, and by selling new debt.  For more, click here.  Campbell to Buy Bolthouse for $1.55 Billion to Add Juices  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB) , the world’s largest soupmaker, agreed to
buy Bolthouse Farms for about $1.55 billion in cash to bolster
its juice business.  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP served as legal counsel to
Campbell while Kirkland & Ellis LLP advised Bolthouse Farms.  Kirkland’s team included corporate partners Michael Paley
and Tana Ryan, along with tax partners Bill Welke and Rachel
Cantor.  Davis Polk  partners in Washington and New York handled the
deal. They included David L. Caplan, H. Oliver Smith, James E.
Elworth and Boyoon Choi. Harry Ballan and Arie Rubenstein are
providing tax advice. Edmond T. FitzGerald and Emma L. Ahrens
are providing employee benefits advice. Michael N. Sohn is
providing antitrust advice.  Bolthouse had sales of $689 million and earnings before
interest and taxes of $79 million in its fiscal year ended March
31, Camden, New Jersey-based Campbell said yesterday in a
statement. Bakersfield, California-based Bolthouse is being
bought from private-equity fund Madison Dearborn Partners LLC.  Buying Bolthouse will strengthen Campbell’s U.S. beverage
division, which makes the V8 brand of juice and accounted for
about 10 percent of sales in the year ended July 31. That unit
was Campbell’s fastest-growing last quarter, generating $208
million in revenue.  Previous management at Campbell had considered bids for
Bolthouse and passed, a person familiar with the matter said
last week. Campbell Chief Executive Officer Denise Morrison, who
took over last year, was more interested than predecessor Doug Conant, said the person.  Private-equity firms such as Ares Management LLC and Advent
International Corp. also explored bids for Bolthouse, a person
familiar with the matter said last week.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Sheppard Mullin Opens Chicago Office With K&L Gates Team  Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP opened a Chicago
office yesterday, the firm’s fifteenth, with a team of partners
mostly from K&L Gates LLP.  Lawrence C. Eppley, who will be managing partner of the new
office, Terrence E. Budny, Patrick J. Maloney, Paul T. Metzger
and Kenneth A. Peterson, Jr., were formerly partners at K&L
Gates in Chicago. Kevin M. Cloutier joins from Winston & Strawn
LLP in Chicago. D. Ronald Ryland, the Sheppard’s general
counsel, will also join the office, relocating from  San
Francisco .  “Initially the office will leverage the success of our
corporate, employment, real estate and finance practices and
helps us serve current and future clients,” Guy N. Halgren,
chairman of Sheppard Mullin said in a statement. He added that
he expected the firm to hire more lawyers soon. “Chicago is the
Midwest’s corporate center and we are committed to growing the
office to serve companies in the region, including those in the
advertising, health care, insurance, private equity and
technology sectors.”  The new partners practice in several areas. Budny joins as
a member of the real estate,  land use  and environmental practice
group. Eppley and Maloney join the corporate practice group.
Metzger will be in the tax, employee benefits, and trusts and
estates practice group, while Peterson is a finance and
bankruptcy lawyer. Cloutier joins the labor and employment
practice group.  Ryland, a member of the  California , New York and  District
of Columbia  bars, serves as the firm’s general counsel. Prior to
assuming that role, he was a business litigator and bankruptcy
lawyer for nearly forty years, with a focus on the
representation of financial institutions and other creditors.  Sheppard Mullin has almost 600 attorneys in 15 offices
located in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia .  Moves  O’Melveny Hires Standard Chartered Bank Lawyer in Hong Kong  O’Melveny & Myers LLP  hired Gigi Woo, a  Hong Kong 
securities lawyer, who most recently worked at Standard
Chartered Bank, where she served as the Global Head of Debt and
Equity  Capital Markets  Legal. Woo joined the firm as a capital
markets partner based in the Hong Kong office.  “Gigi’s arrival bolsters our Hong Kong capital markets
scale and capabilities, enhancing our ability to offer seamless
listing support on a global basis,” said  David Johnson ,
managing partner of O’Melveny’s Hong Kong office and a member of
the firm’s corporate finance/capital markets practice.  Woo has spent most of her career leading legal teams at
investment banks throughout Asia, including senior positions in
the legal departments of Deutsche Bank and Goldman Sachs (Asia)
LLC, the firm said.  She has overseen a wide variety of both debt and equity
capital market transactions, securitizations, cross-border and
domestic mergers and acquisitions, and financings, as well as
worked on numerous initial public offerings.  O’Melveny has 800 lawyers in 15 offices worldwide.  Proskauer Adds Three Partners to Global Capital Markets Practice  Proskauer Rose LLP has added three partners and a senior
counsel to the global firm’s London office. Partners Peter
Castellon, Katherine Mulhern and Roberto Bruno and senior
counsel Maximilian Kirchner will join the capital markets
practice in September 2012.  “This is a superb group of lawyers, all of whom are highly
respected by the international investment banking and capital
markets communities,” said Frank Lopez, co-head of Proskauer’s
global capital markets group. “Their addition will
significantly enhance our ability to advise underwriters,
sponsors and issuers on cross-border capital markets
transactions.”  Peter Castellon will join from Citigroup in London, where
he is currently Deputy General Counsel, Banking & Capital
Markets. He has been responsible for advising Citi’s Equity
Capital Markets Division and Investment Banking Division in
connection with an array of securities offerings, including
IPOs, follow-on and secondary offerings, block trades, rights
offerings and offerings of convertible and exchangeable bonds,
the firm said.  Katherine Mulhern will join from Kaye Scholer LLP, where
she is currently a corporate partner in the London office.
Before that, she was head of the U.S. capital markets practice
in the London office of Hogan Lovells LLP, the firm said.  Roberto Bruno will join from Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP’s
London office, where he is currently a senior attorney in the
corporate department. His practice focuses on cross-border,
sophisticated and high-profile securities offerings, the firm
said.  Max Kirchner will join from the New York office of Latham &
Watkins LLP. He represents financial institutions and private
equity sponsors in leveraged finance and equity capital markets
transactions and has experience in high-yield offerings,
acquisition financings, IPOs and secondary stock offerings, the
firm said.  Proskauer has 13 offices in the U.S., South America, Europe
and Asia.  Loeb Hires Paul Hastings M&A Partner Peng in Beijing  Loeb & Loeb LLP announced that mergers and acquisitions
lawyer Roger C. Peng, who was previously a partner at  Paul
Hastings  LLP, has joined the firm as a partner in the Beijing,
 China , office. Prior to his employment at Paul Hastings, Peng
was managing partner of Hogan & Hartson’s (now Hogan Lovells
LLP) Beijing office, the firm said.  Peng’s practice focuses on mergers and acquisitions,
private equity,  venture capital , and complex commercial
transactions, with a particular focus on transactions in
telecommunications, Internet, media, software, and other
technology sectors.  “Roger’s outstanding reputation and deep experience
handling complex U.S. dollar- and RMB-denominated private equity
transactions and cross-border M&A transactions is very well
suited to the deal activity we are seeing in China today,” said
Mitchell S. Nussbaum, chairman of the firm’s capital markets and
Asia practices.  Loeb & Loeb has represented more than 60 Chinese companies
that have gone public in the U.S., the firm said. The firm’s
clients also include private equity funds, investment banks, as
well as China-based enterprises, creative artists and
entrepreneurs seeking to expand into the U.S. entertainment
industry, and U.S. media and entertainment clients seeking to
grow and secure their interests in China.  Loeb & Loeb has more than 300 attorneys at five domestic
offices in  Los Angeles , New York, Chicago, Washington and
Nashville,  Tennessee , as well as a representative office in
Beijing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 