-- Internet Loan Scam Leads to Charges Against 33
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-07-10T22:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/internet-loan-scam-leads-to-indictment-of-32-u-s-says.html
An Internet loan scam that
prosecutors say defrauded more than 2,000 victims has led to
federal charges against 33 people in the U.S. and  Canada .  The defendants, who operated the scam since 2005, used
online ads to lure victims to apply for unsecured personal
loans, according to a 62-count indictment made public today by
U.S. Attorney William Hochul Jr. in Buffalo, New York. The
victims were told to wire money as a “security deposit,” then
never got any loans or refunds, according to the charges.  The fraud netted $2.7 million, according to Ross Feinstein,
a spokesman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.  The indictment charges 32 people, including nine arrested
today, according to the U.S. Attorney’s office. Another
defendant was arrested July 1. One of the 10 was charged in a
criminal complaint. All of the defendants are charged with
conspiracy to commit  wire fraud  and conspiracy to launder money.  U.S. authorities said they will seek the arrest of other
defendants, who are in Canada, through the use of law
enforcement treaties between the two countries. The names of the
defendants who remain at large were redacted from the public
copy of the indictment.  The Obama administration and the Federal Trade Commission
have focused on exposing scams that seek to take advantage of
people trying to recover from the U.S. economic crisis. On July
3, the FTC said it halted two operations that fooled consumers
into believing they would get help with their debts.  In the charges disclosed today, prosecutors claimed the
defendants ran the fraud from cities in the U.S. and Ontario.  The case is U.S. v. Jaichon, 12-CR-183, U.S. District
Court, Western District of  New York  (Buffalo).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  