-- Ipsen Says Hemophilia Drug Study Suspended by U.S.’s FDA
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-07-10T11:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/ipsen-says-hemophilia-drug-study-suspended-by-u-s-s-fda.html
U.S. regulators put two clinical
trials of a hemophilia drug  Ipsen SA (IPN)  is developing with
 Inspiration Biopharmaceuticals Inc.  on hold because of “a
potential safety concern.” Ipsen fell the most in two years.  Inspiration noticed that patients treated with the
experimental product, called IB1001, were more likely to test
positive for antibodies to Chinese hamster ovary protein, the
product’s host cell protein, Ipsen said in a statement today.
Inspiration alerted the  Food and Drug Administration  and is
investigating, according to the statement.  “While this finding may be a potential safety concern, no
evidence suggests a change in the current overall clinical
benefit and risk profile of IB1001,” Ipsen, based in Boulogne-
Billancourt near Paris, said in the statement.  The suspension of the trials may mean a delay in winning
approval for the drug, and could even result in the treatment
being dropped, said Tara Raveendran, an analyst at Jefferies
International Ltd. Ipsen needs new products after the failure in
2010 of the experimental diabetes drug taspoglutide, which
contributed to an overhaul that included the appointment of
Chief Executive Officer Marc de Garidel late that year.  Stock Drops  Ipsen dropped as much as 12 percent to 17.51 euros, the
biggest intraday decline since June 18, 2010, and was trading
down 11 percent at 1:46 p.m. in Paris, valuing the company at
1.5 billion euros ($1.85 billion).  The IB1001 setback is “definitely bad in terms of
sentiment, and that explains the market reaction,” Mathieu Chabert, an analyst at Bryan Garnier & Co. in Paris, said in a
telephone interview today. “It’s yet another disappointment
coming from Ipsen, and a reminder of the dark hours of
taspoglutide’s failure, even if the two stories are clearly not
the same.”  CEO De Garidel has dropped some projects, focused research
on disease-causing substances known as toxins and peptides, and
has sought a partnership for Ipsen’s French primary-care
operations. Ipsen is also expanding in hemophilia through its
work with Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Inspiration.  The experimental medicine, like other recombinant drugs,
uses Chinese hamster ovary cells to produce a protein known as
factor IX that’s key to coagulation. The people treated with
IB1001 showed a higher-than-expected level of antibodies against
the hamster cells, suggesting the patients’ immune systems had
started mounting a response to the treatment.  Trial Subjects  Inspiration and Ipsen are testing whether IB1001 can
prevent bleeding in two late-stage trials, one in adults with
hemophilia B and the other in children with the illness who have
received prior treatment. Inspiration has control of the IB1001
late-stage trials, Didier Veron, an Ipsen spokesman, said in a
telephone interview today.  The U.S. company received the letter from the FDA on July 6
and Ipsen was notified the following day, he said.  “The FDA has asked Inspiration to conduct a root cause
analysis to understand the higher-than-expected level of anti-
CHO antibodies,” Veron said. Results of that study will be
known sometime from September through December, he said.  “We cannot speculate at this time on whether there will be
any impact on the marketing applications for IB1001,” Veron
said. “This doesn’t in any way change Ipsen’s strategy” in
hemophilia.  Introduction Plans  Ipsen filed for approval of IB1001 in the European Union in
October and in the U.S. in April, Veron said. The company has
been looking at introducing the treatment in  Europe  in the first
half of 2013 and about six months later in the U.S., he said.  “If an additional filtration step in manufacturing is
found to be required, this could be a significant setback to
time lines,” Jefferies analyst Raveendran wrote in a note to
clients today.  Ipsen owns a stake in closely held Inspiration. The
companies are developing drugs to treat hemophilia, an inherited
blood disorder caused by low levels or an absence of a protein
called clotting factor essential for coagulation. Hemophilia B
is caused by a shortage of factor IX, while Hemophilia A is
caused by a lack of factor VIII, according to Inspiration.  A total of 86 people with hemophilia B have received the
drug in trials, with no adverse events related to the
development of antibodies to the CHO protein, Ipsen said.  The French company’s stock, including reinvested dividends,
has dropped 25 percent this year, compared with a 19 percent
gain for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceuticals Index.  Today’s announcement “will add pressure on the management
to deliver a deal for the French primary-care business, which
could be a positive catalyst,” said Garnier analyst Chabert,
who is forecasting 98 million euros in annual peak sales for
IB1001 by 2022. He has a buy recommendation on Ipsen shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Geneva via 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  