-- Iran’s Ballistic Missiles Improving, Pentagon Finds
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-07-10T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/iran-improves-ballistics-missiles-to-target-ships.html
Iran’s military continues to improve
the accuracy and killing power of its long- and short-range
ballistic missiles, including designing a weapon to target
vessels, according to a Pentagon report to Congress.  “Iran has boosted the lethality and effectiveness of
existing systems by improving accuracy and developing new
submunition payloads” that extend the destructive power over a
wider area than a solid warhead, according to the June 29 report
signed by U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta .  The improvements are in tandem with regular ballistic-
missile training that “continues throughout the country” and
the addition of “new ships and submarines,” the report found.  The report obtained by Bloomberg News was provided to the
four congressional defense committees last week to comply with a
fiscal 2010 directive to provide an annual classified and
unclassified assessment of Iran’s military power. The
unclassified version provides the latest snapshot of Iran’s so-
called asymmetric capabilities designed to counter the strengths
of western militaries.  The report summarizes what’s been said publicly about the
status of  Iran’s nuclear program  and its aid to  Syria , Lebanese
Hezbollah, Hamas, and Iraqi Shiite groups. It repeats the long-
standing U.S. assessment that Iran with “sufficient foreign
assistance may be technically capable of flight-testing” an
intercontinental ballistic missile by 2015.  Two analysts who follow Iranian military developments said
the report provides new details and emphasis on the nation’s
conventional ballistic missiles.  Accuracy Improvements  “There was a theme that Iran is improving the accuracy and
lethality of its missiles,” said Congressional Research Service
Iran analyst  Kenneth Katzman . “U.S. government reports have
previously always downplayed the accuracy and effectiveness of
Iran’s missile forces.”  “The report seemed pretty sober and respectful of Iran’s
capabilities, crediting Iran with improving survivability,”
Katzman said.  The Pentagon report was delivered as a European Union
embargo on buying Iranian crude took effect on July 1, adding to
a series of trade and financial sanctions the U.S., EU and
 United Nations  imposed on the second-biggest producer in the
Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries in an effort
to pressure the Persian Gulf nation over its nuclear activities.  ‘Formidable Force’  Iran “would present a formidable force while defending
Iranian territory,” the Pentagon said in the report. “We
assess with high confidence” that over 30 years  Iran  “has
methodically cultivated a network of sponsored terrorist
surrogates capable of targeting U.S. and Israeli interests,” it
said. “We suspect this activity continues.”  Iran also continues to develop ballistic missiles with
range to reach regional adversaries,  Israel  and Eastern Europe,
including an extended-range Shahab-3 and a 2,000 kilometer
(1,240 mile) medium-range ballistic missile, said the report.  Citing the Iranian threat, the Obama administration shifted
from the Bush administration’s plans to place missile-defense
sites in  Poland  and radar in the  Czech Republic  to an approach
that would in four phases place closer to Iran some Aegis-class
Navy missile defense vessels, ground radar and eventually land-
based Navy Standard Missile-3 interceptors.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  are among
beneficiaries of the envisioned systems.  Missile Emphasis  The report appears to confirm Iran has actively deployed a
new solid-fuel intermediate-range ballistic missile and that the
Shahab-3 has improved accuracy and submunitions, said  Anthony Cordesman  of the Center for Strategic and International Studies
in Washington.  The report also disclosed that Iran is seeking to improve
its missile counter-measures against U.S. and Gulf Cooperation
Council missile defenses and poses a potential new threat to
Gulf shipping, said Cordesman, who this week is publishing CSIS
updates to his reports on Iran and the Gulf military balance.  Iran, like  China , is “developing and claims to have
deployed short-range ballistic missiles with seekers that enable
the missile to identify and maneuver toward ships during
flight,” the report found.  “This technology also may be capable of striking land-
based targets,” the Pentagon said.  Katzman said the language about Iran possessing a
“formidable force defending Iranian territory” seemed  to be a
“signal to advocates of military action against Iran,
suggesting any action on Iranian soil will carry risk.”  The Pentagon highlighted three early 2012 war exercises by
the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ground resistance forces
“meant to show offensive and defensive capabilities.”  The maneuvers “were the first significant exercises”
conducted by this branch of the Iranian military since 2008, the
Pentagon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  