-- Israeli Ex-Prime Minister Olmert Acquitted on Most Charges
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-07-10T16:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/israeli-ex-prime-minister-olmert-acquitted-on-most-charges-1-.html
Former Israeli Prime Minister  Ehud Olmert  was acquitted today of corruption charges that forced him
from office, although the court found him guilty of breach of
trust in another case.  “The court said there were incorrect procedures involved,
and not corruption,” Olmert said at the  Jerusalem  District
Court after the verdict.  Olmert, 66, served as prime minister from the Kadima party
from 2006 to 2009, and was succeeded by Likud leader  Benjamin Netanyahu  after stepping down in the face of corruption
allegations. Today’s judgments relate to actions Olmert took as
industry and trade minister from 2003 to 2006 and before that as
mayor of Jerusalem from 1993.  “It’s a blow to the state prosecutors that they failed to
indict Olmert on the major charges,” said Avraham Diskin,
professor of political science at the  Hebrew University of
Jerusalem . “Still, the odds are very slim that even after this
Olmert can return to politics, as he wouldn’t be satisfied with
anything but a major role and he doesn’t have a strong public
following.”  Olmert was found guilty of using his position as industry
minister to aid the interests of his former law partner and
political associate, Uri Messer. Olmert’s lawyer, Eli Zohar,
said after the verdict that he isn’t planning to appeal.  “Breach of trust is a relatively minor charge, usually
resulting in a suspended sentence or public service,” Jerusalem
criminal attorney Yair Golan said in a phone interview.  Further Charges  Olmert is facing further corruption charges in a separate
trial for allegedly taking bribes to help facilitate the
building of a Jerusalem luxury housing project.  Olmert was acquitted today on charges of failing to
properly report cash payments he received over a number of years
from Morris Talansky, a  New York  businessman and fundraiser. The
other charges in which he was acquitted relate to accusations
that he used the Rishon Tours travel agency for multiple billing
of public and private institutions for trips he made abroad on
their behalf before he became prime minister.  State Prosecutor Moshe Lador said after the verdict that
the evidence justified the decision to prosecute Olmert and
rejected criticism that it unfairly resulted in Olmert’s
resignation.  Political Process  “It would have been wrong to let a political process that
created a dynamic which led to Mr. Olmert’s resignation to have
influenced the professional work of the police and prosecutors
office,” Lador said at a press briefing.  Olmert said it was “impossible to avoid the far-reaching
implications, both within and outside  Israel  as a result of the
decision to bring me to trial.”  Olmert’s trial followed those of other senior government
officials in recent years. Since 2008, Israeli courts have found
former President Moshe Katsav guilty of rape and sentenced him
to seven years in jail, sentenced former Finance Minister
Avraham Hirschson to five years’ imprisonment for theft and
money laundering, and convicted former Health Minister Shlomo Benizri of taking bribes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  