-- Israel’s Occupational Hazard
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-10T23:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/israel-s-occupational-hazard.html
Israel’s Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  might have gotten what he wanted from the committee he
named to explore ways to legalize unauthorized Jewish
settlements in the West Bank.  After all, its chairman, retired Supreme Court Justice
Edmond Levy, had previously made clear that he rejects the term
“occupied territory” to describe the West Bank’s status.  The committee offered a simple way out of the legal morass
of determining whether Jewish homes constructed beyond the
borders of Israel are legitimate or should be demolished. To
build on state land, it said, no approval is necessary beyond
that of the zoning and planning authorities of any regular
neighborhood. Although this ruling may appeal to Netanyahu, he
would be wise to reject it, as it comes with genuine peril.  Jewish settlements in the  West Bank  aren’t regular
neighborhoods. They are outposts of Israeli citizens in land
intended to be part of a Palestinian state according to the 1947
United Nations  plan to partition  the British mandate of
 Palestine . During the 1967 war, Israel conquered the territory
from Jordan, which had annexed it after the 1948 war. Israel has
occupied the West Bank since.  “Occupied” is the verb used by the UN, the U.S. and other
third parties. Levy and his two fellow panelists don’t see it
that way. They argue that Israel is not an occupying force in
the West Bank because Jordan’s previous control was never
legitimized. Yet that’s a rare view even in  Israel . Many
officials there dislike the term, but international law
regarding occupation has been the basis of  Israeli jurisprudence 
in the West Bank for 45 years. In the first military orders
issued after taking the West Bank, Israel cited the  Fourth
Geneva Convention , which deals with the responsibilities of an
occupying power.  Of course, Israel is free to reconsider its position. It
would suit Netanyahu if settlers could expand their communities
more easily, especially if he could claim he was unable to stop
them. The political support of the settlers is important to him.
However, government backing of their ambitions invites
international opprobrium: Settlements would make it  difficult,
if not impossible , to create a Palestinian state with any
geographic integrity.  Yet even if the Levy committee’s position helped Netanyahu
deal with settlement expansion, adopting it would harm Israel’s
interests. In the West Bank today, Israelis and Palestinians are
 governed differently . Israeli settlers have all the rights of
any Israeli and participate fully in the country’s robust
democracy. In certain districts, Palestinians have limited self-
governance, but more broadly they are subject to Israeli
military law and have no vote in Israel.  By abolishing the notion of occupation, the Levy committee
would eliminate the justification for treating the two
populations in different ways. Israel would then have to choose
between two unhappy options.  If Israel truly owns and controls the land -- and doesn’t
just occupy it -- and if it fails to give equal rights to
Palestinians, then it will be accused of segregationist
policies. Those policies would come with international isolation
and possibly economic sanctions.  Alternatively, if Israel extended equal rights, including
the vote, to the Palestinians of the West Bank, it would
probably spell the  end of the Jewish state . A Jewish state is
predicated on a solid Jewish majority, something that  would
evaporate  if Israel found itself in the position of absorbing
2.2 million Palestinians growing at a rate of 2.1 percent a
year.  Netanyahu has referred the Levy panel’s work to a
ministerial committee for consideration. It would be best if the
committee accepts the status quo and Israel keeps working toward
a two-state solution.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Washington ’s  inability to
move on ;  Mark Buchanan  on living cells as a model for a  stable
financial system ;  Margaret Carlson  on  presidential vacations ;
 Peter Orszag  explains why states will eventually  expand
Medicaid ;  Alex Marshall  on health care and the  rising bar for
government services .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 