-- Italy’s Economic Gains No Shield Against Contagion, IMF Says
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-07-10T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/italy-s-economic-gains-no-shield-against-contagion-imf-says.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s
“ambitious” efforts to spur  Italy ’s economy won’t be enough to
shield the country from fallout of the region’s debt crisis
without  Europe  making progress in building a fiscal union, the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  The bearer of the euro’s second-biggest debt “has embarked
on an ambitious agenda to secure sustainability and promote
growth,” the Washington-based lender said today in a report on
Italy. “Despite these strong efforts, Italy remains vulnerable
to contagion from the euro area crisis, with spillover
consequences for the region and globally.”  While Italy is on track to bring its budget deficit within
the European Union limit this year, its 10-year yield bond yield
has risen above 6 percent in recent weeks after  Spain  sought a
bailout, fueling concern that Italy might be next. Italy had
enjoyed a respite from the crisis after Monti’s government took
office in November and passed 20 billion euros ($24.6 billion)
in austerity measures and overhauled the country’s pension
system.  European leaders are now seeking to create a closer fiscal
union to try to improve finances and restore investor
confidence.  Fiscal Union  “Progress at the European level in creating a more
integrated currency union with greater fiscal and financial
discipline and risk sharing, combined with further monetary
easing and unconventional measures as needed by the ECB, is
crucial for securing stability and providing needed time for
Italy’s adjustment and reform efforts,” the lender said.  Monti, who doubles as finance minister, pressed his case at
a meeting with European counterparts in Brussels today for steps
to reduce Italy’s bond yields, whether through tapping the euro-
region bailout fund or with the support of the  European Central
Bank .  The IMF praised the efforts by Monti’s government to reduce
the  budget deficit  and increase Italy’s growth potential.
Italy’s “priority should continue to be on wide-ranging
structural reforms to boost productivity and labor
participation, a supportive fiscal strategy that is both growth-
friendly and sustainable, and steps to promote a more dynamic
and resilient banking system,” the IMF said.  Budget Gap  Italy will post a structural  budget surplus , net of the
economic cycle’s effects and one-time measures, of 0.5 percent
of GDP in 2013, the IMF said. Still, with debt set to rise to
125.8 percent of GDP this year before peaking at 126.4 next
year, Italy is struggling to shake off the risk of contagion.  Italy, whose growth has trailed the euro region average for
more than a decade, “is expected to continue contracting
through the year owing to tight financial conditions, the global
slowdown, and the needed fiscal consolidation,” the IMF said,
confirming its previous forecast of a 1.9 percent contraction
this year and 0.3 percent in 2013.  That projections compare with a 1.2 percent forecast by the
government, a 2 percent contraction estimated by the  Bank of
Italy  and a 2.4 percent drop in growth expected by the country’s
employers lobby Confindustria.  “The recovery will take hold in early 2013, led by a
modest pickup in exports,” the IMF said. “The risks to the
outlook are however on the downside, stemming mainly from an
intensification of the euro area crisis.”  The IMF forecast that exports of Italian goods and services
will rise 0.6 percent this year and 1.9 percent next. Still, as
joblessness keeps increasing from the current 12-year high to
more than 11 percent in 2013, domestic demand will shrink by 3
percent this year and 0.7 percent next year, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  