-- Titan Should Be Liquidated, Warburg Pincus Says in Suit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-10T07:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/titan-should-be-liquidated-warburg-pincus-says-in-suit.html
Titan Petrochemicals Group Ltd. (1192) 
should be liquidated because the Hong Kong-listed company is
insolvent, private equity firm  Warburg Pincus  LLC said in a
lawsuit.  Saturn Petrochemical Holdings Ltd., a Warburg special
purpose vehicle, filed a winding-up petition in the  Supreme
Court  of  Bermuda  on July 5, according to a copy obtained by
Bloomberg News. Li Mingxia, a spokeswoman in Beijing for the New
York-based firm, confirmed the document. A call to the Supreme
Court of Bermuda outside office hours wasn’t answered.  Warburg has invested more than $215 million in the Titan
group of companies since 2007, according to the petition. Shares
in the provider of oil transportation and storage services were
suspended in  Hong Kong  on June 19 after falling 22 percent this
year, cutting its market value to HK$1.92 billion ($248
million).  Serene Goh, a spokeswoman for Titan Petrochemicals, said in
an e-mail the company hasn’t been informed of a lawsuit asking
for its liquidation on the basis of insolvency, and declined to
comment further by phone today.  Titan, which provides services including oil storage and
transportation in the Asia-Pacific region, reported a fiscal
year net loss of HK$783.3 million on May 11 and said it’s
seeking investors to buy an equity stake.  The company defaulted on HK$825.8 million of principal and
HK$35.1 million in interest due on its U.S. dollar bonds on
March 19. It hasn’t been profitable in any of the past five
years, and its liabilities at the end of last year exceeded its
assets by HK$1.24 billion, according to the petition.  Titan is unlikely to be able to redeem Warburg’s 555
million preferred shares, according to the document. Warburg
sought redemption on July 4, claiming HK$384 million.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  