-- Itau, BMG Strike Deal on Brazilian Payroll-Loan Venture
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-07-10T22:32:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/itau-bmg-strike-deal-on-brazilian-payroll-loan-venture.html
Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) ,  Latin
America ’s largest lender by market value, formed a 1 billion-
real ($491.5 million) joint venture with Banco BMG SA to
increase its payroll-loan business in  Brazil .  Itau, based in Sao Paulo, will hold a 70 percent stake in
Banco Itau BMG Consignado SA, as the new company will be called,
with Belo Horizonte-based BMG owning the remaining 30 percent,
according to a regulatory filing today.  “Considering BMG’s experience in the payroll loan market,
Itau Unibanco expects to become the number one privately owned
bank in the segment,” the lender said in the regulatory filing.
“This transaction is another step by Itau to operate with
assets of lower risk and spread.”  Under Brazilian law, banks are entitled to deduct payroll
loans directly from the borrower’s paycheck and before other
creditors. Osasco-based  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  surpassed BMG as
Brazil’s largest originator of payroll-deductible loans, Clive Botelho, BMG’s executive financial director, said last month.  Itau fell 4.5 percent to 27.94 reais in Sao Paulo, compared
with a 3 percent drop in the benchmark Bovespa index. BMG isn’t
publicly traded. The yield of its dollar bonds due in 2020
declined 1.04 percentage point, or 104 basis points, to 10.154
percent.  ‘Interesting’ Deal  Both banks said they expect the deal to be completed within
90 days. The joint venture’s portfolio of loans may reach 12
billion reais in the next two years and attract about 3 million
new customers, according to the filing.  The deal structure is “interesting” for Itau as “it
commits limited capital upfront, while it gives Itau the
flexibility to continue to originate payroll loans through its
own branch network,” Fabio Zagatti, an analyst at Barclays Plc
in  Sao Paulo , wrote in an e-mailed research note today.  “Payroll lending in Brazil may equal or surpass the auto
loans in the next years,” Itau’s Chief Executive Officer
Roberto Setubal told reporters at a press conference today in
Sao Paulo.  Itau will provide as much as 300 million reais per month
for the next five years to finance BMG’s payroll-loans,
according to a statement from the lender. Itau will offer
funding to BMG at market rates, Setubal said. The majority of
the joint venture’s board will be named by Itau, which will have
the right to approve all directors.  Itau has an option to buy out the joint venture, BMG’s
Chief Executive Officer Ricardo Guimaraes told reporters at the
press conference. The banks are also negotiating an option that
would give Itau the right to buy BMG, Guimaraes said.  Valor Economico , a Sao Paulo-based newspaper, reported
yesterday that Bradesco may buy a stake in BMG without saying
where it obtained the information.  Bradesco declined to comment in an e-mailed statement from
a press official. BMG’s Botelho, in a phone interview today,
declined to say whether the bank has held talks with Bradesco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  