-- Living Cells Show How to Fix the Financial System
-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 2012-07-10T22:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/living-cells-show-how-to-fix-the-financial-system.html
Over the past three decades, the
global financial system has become more dynamic and
interconnected, more concentrated and complicated than ever
before. Financial engineering seems to know no limits to
creating new instruments that link institutions in new ways.  Is that a good thing? Or could the resulting financial
network be too complex? Or, perhaps, complex in the wrong way?  A look at biology -- which has been tinkering with network
designs for billions of years -- suggests that the answer to the
last question is most likely yes.  In “The Architecture of Complexity,” an extraordinarily
original paper published 50 years ago, the economist,
psychologist and artificial-intelligence pioneer Herbert Simon
asked the question, Why does nature so consistently organize
itself into hierarchies? Why, that is, are so many of its
creations designed as systems of systems?  In biology, for example, cells organize into tissues,
tissues into organs, organs into larger systems. The cell itself
contains a nucleus and a cell membrane, ribosomes and
mitochondria. Our human organizations obviously also follow
hierarchies, as do our buildings, technological devices, even
our writing -- words make sentences, which build paragraphs,
which then make up essays or chapters.  Scientists and philosophers since Aristotle have noted as
much, but Simon, one of the most creative minds of the 20th
century (he died in 2001), was perhaps the first to ask why. He
also proposed an answer.  Hierarchical Design  For one thing, he pointed out, structures like this are
easier to make and also more amenable to beneficial alteration.
We might, in principle, build computers as enormously complex
assemblies of billions of individual transistors, linked in some
exquisite design. Then, however, every device would have to be
built as a whole. We simplify construction by designing
computers as assemblies of subunits that can be linked -- a
memory chip, central processor and keyboard, for example. The
units can be built and tested separately, and they can be linked
in different ways to make different kinds of computers. We can
reach in and alter one component -- changing the memory --
without worrying that we have wrecked the keyboard. As a result,
computers become easier to improve.  Hierarchy, in other words, is a way of limiting complexity
in the interest of both stability and evolvability. Simon argued
that systems structured in this way possess a basic, competitive
simplicity.  We are only beginning to appreciate how much, as living
beings, we rely on this architecture. Take ordinary bone, for
example, which is remarkably tough, yet lightweight, with
properties that our technology still cannot match. The secret is
hierarchy. Within bone, small molecules bind together into
proteins, which then link into filaments, which in turn organize
into larger structures. When a bone suffers a blow, the
hierarchy provides a variety of mechanisms by which it can pass
along the excess energy it absorbs, without creating lasting
damage. Bone, like most other structures in biology, is not just
complex, but complex in a highly organized way. What about
structures in economics and finance?  The growth of modern finance seems to have violated the
principle of hierarchical structures, and with gusto. Two trends
in the past 30 years -- the merging of banks into huge
institutions and the explosion of derivatives that link them
around the globe -- have made the network much less modular. We
have created a vast web of interconnections with extreme
complexity but little organization. And this does appear to have
made the system less resilient.  Failures Cascade  For example, in a  study  last year, economists from the
University of Auckland,  New Zealand  and the  Bank of England  used
computer simulations to explore how failures might cascade
through the interbank network, the system that banks use to
manage their day-to-day financing demands by making loans to one
another. This network normally functions fairly well, with funds
flowing easily, but it can experience sharp liquidity crises --
as it did following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008. For short-term cash, banks rely heavily on “repos”
-- overnight sales of stocks or other assets, which they agree
to repurchase later. How much cash a bank can get for a specific
asset depends on the “haircut” -- a reduction in the cash lent
against it, which lenders demand to protect themselves against
risks, or losses they may face if, in the case of default, they
have to sell the asset themselves.  Haircuts fluctuate with time and perceptions, and the
simulations show that the interbank network’s resilience to such
fluctuations depends on its architecture. The more the network
is concentrated in and dominated by big banks and the higher the
overall density of links among banks, the less modular the
system is, and the less stable. That is, both these trends make
it more likely for financial distress to cascade through the
network.  Specifically, huge banks that account for a
disproportionate share of all links act as potential epicenters
for trouble. This is a way of describing “too big to fail,”
although it would be more accurate to say “too central to fail.”
Meanwhile, a high density of interconnections in the network
creates ever more channels along which contagion can move. This
problem encourages banks to “hoard” funds in times of stress --
the least desirable behavior in a network of banks trying to
share resources to meet their momentary funding demands.  Unlike organisms, of course, financial systems haven’t
undergone evolutionary competition from which only the fit have
emerged. We have little reason to expect that what exists would
be anything like optimal, or even reasonable.  To counter these developments, we could try to manage the
way lending occurs -- control the amount of leverage used and
the haircuts involved -- so as to prevent dangerous contagion.
More boldly, we might try to set up constraints on the very
concentration of our networks, on who is linked with whom and
how strongly.  Both high concentration and high interconnectedness
contribute to an “everything is linked to everything” outcome
that is the very opposite of modularity, and a likely recipe for
instability. Financial engineering should learn to avoid this
architecture, just as surely as biology has.  ( Mark Buchanan , a theoretical physicist and the author of
“The Social Atom: Why the Rich Get Richer, Cheaters Get Caught
and Your Neighbor Usually Looks Like You,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Washington ’s  inability to
move on  and  Israel ’s debate over  Jewish settlements ;  Margaret
Carlson  on  presidential vacations ;  Peter Orszag  explains why
states will eventually  expand Medicaid ;  Alex Marshall  on health
care and the  rising bar for government services .  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Buchanan at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  