-- Japan Insider-Trade Crackdown Targets ‘Animals Run Wild’
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   R u s s e l l   W a r d
-- 2012-07-11T06:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/japan-insider-trade-crackdown-targets-animals-run-wild-.html
Japan’s crackdown on  insider trading 
barely scratches the surface of a practice that allows traders
to profit and brokerages to boost their underwriting business at
the expense of shareholders and issuers.  The disclosures have undermined confidence in the world’s
second-largest stock market, where the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY) 
remains 77 percent below its 1989 peak and scandals such as the
accounting fraud at Olympus Corp. and covered-up losses at AIJ
Investment Advisors Co. deter investors from a waning economy.  In the five insider-trading cases uncovered since March,
regulators have proposed fines for traders who short sold shares
based on information leaked to them by underwriters before
public offerings were announced in 2010. The revelations
prompted at least two clients of  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  to take
their business elsewhere after Japan’s biggest brokerage
acknowledged the breaches by its sales staff.  “Japan has been letting the animals run wild for two or
three years now -- that wouldn’t happen in the U.S.,” said
Takao Saga, a professor who studies the financial industry at
Waseda University in Tokyo. “Insider trading is still going on
in the Japan market.”  With the latest actions, the Securities and Exchange
Surveillance Commission and its parent, the Financial Services
Agency, are keen to show they are cracking down after it took
them nine years to discover AIJ hid losses that reached $1.4
billion on pension money it managed. Olympus admitted to a $1.7
billion, 13-year coverup of losses after former President
 Michael Woodford  blew the whistle last year on inflated fees the
camera maker paid for takeovers.  Hindering Fundraising  Authorities are paying attention now because short selling
by insiders is hindering corporate fundraising, not just burning
investors who aren’t privy to the tips, according to consultant
Robert Boxwell. The transactions involve traders selling
borrowed shares, betting that the price will fall once the
offerings become publicly known on concern over dilution.  “These types of insider trades cost Japan Inc. money,”
said Boxwell, 54, who has lived in Japan and now studies global
insider trading as director of consulting firm Opera Advisors in
Kuala Lumpur. In Japan, “after years of ignoring protests from
the West about cleaning up their act, they’re talking tough.”  ‘Deep Rooted’  Financial Services Minister Tadahiro Matsushita, who was
appointed to his role as part of a Cabinet reshuffle on June 4,
said his agency could be doing more.  “There are some deep-rooted issues,” he said at a news
conference in Tokyo on July 10. “The FSA is responding severely
and appropriately given the framework and economic conditions.
You can never say you’ve done enough.”  Matsushita, 73, last week asked 12 securities firms
including  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc.,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch unit
to review how they handle confidential information.  He also ordered his agency to consider stiffer penalties
for insider trading after facing criticism that existing rules
are too soft. Regulators currently impose fines based on profits
made from the transactions, with no punitive penalties attached,
while tipsters aren’t subject to fines.  The FSA fined  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. (8309)  130,000
yen ($1,630) last month after a former unit traded shares for
clients before two public offerings.  Banner Year  The current probe focuses on a glut of stock issuances made
in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. Companies in
Japan sold 5 trillion yen of shares in 2010, the most in four
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, to replenish
capital. Salespeople at brokerages had to market the equities to
investors reeling from new threats such as Europe’s sovereign
debt turmoil.  “The market didn’t welcome the new share offerings,” said
 Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600 million at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co. in Tokyo. “Employees were under
pressure to generate and boost profits.”  Sales staff weren’t the only ones pressed to drum up
business. Investment bankers who managed share sales allowed,
and in some circumstances encouraged, the salespeople to pass on
tips to short sellers because they created demand by buying back
the stock during the public offerings, said two bankers who have
worked for equity divisions at firms in Tokyo and asked not to
be named because of confidentiality agreements.  Hedge Funds  Employees from equity underwriting units or coverage
bankers would sometimes contact overseas hedge funds directly or
through their brokers while securing a mandate, months before
the offerings were announced, one of the people said.  “This brought a triple benefit as hedge funds made profit,
brokers successfully completed the deals, and votes for the
broker from clients went up,” Kyoya Okazawa, head of global
equities and commodity derivatives at BNP Paribas SA in Tokyo,
wrote in a note last week. “Japan’s insider-leaks scandal is a
serious problem that will probably extend beyond its borders.”  Insider trading aided by underwriters was so prevalent in
the wake of the financial crisis that the SESC may only target a
few examples to use as a deterrent, said Kenji Nakanishi, former
deputy president at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in Tokyo.  “I received phone calls and e-mails from foreign banks and
investors around 2010 saying Japan’s capital markets will get
ugly,” said Nakanishi, 48, who’s now a lawmaker with the
opposition Your Party. “What the SESC revealed were very minor
cases that must be the tip of the iceberg.”  Fivefold Decline  The five cases earned a total of 118 million yen for the
investors, the commission says. Shares of Japan’s 10 biggest
stock issuers in 2010 declined an average five times more than
the benchmark  Topix (TPX)  index in the two weeks before their
offerings were made public, erasing 800 billion yen of market
value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the three
months before the announcements, the shares declined an average
10 percent, compared with a 0.2 percent drop for the Topix.  The ruling  Democratic Party of Japan  wants a wider
investigation after finding spikes in trading volumes of 20
stocks before public offerings were unveiled between July 2009
and July 2011, said lawmaker Tsutomu Okubo. Share prices
“clearly moved before the announcements, which looks odd,”
Okubo, a former Morgan Stanley banker who heads a DPJ panel
examining the issue, told reporters on July 5.  ANA Alarm  While equity offerings have declined since 2010, reducing
the opportunity for wrongdoing,  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  last week
raised an alarm regarding unusual trading that occurred before
it announced plans on July 3 for a 211 billion yen share sale.
The SESC is examining whether there was insider trading, a
government official with direct knowledge of the matter said,
asking not to be named as the investigation is still under way.  The  trading volume  of ANA shares reached a three-month high
on July 2, moves that spokesman Ryosei Nomura described as
“unnatural.” The airline currently has no plans to take action
after receiving assurances from the four underwriters -- Nomura,
JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank -- that they didn’t
leak information on what would be Japan’s biggest sale this
year. Spokesmen at the four banks declined to comment.  Nomura said in a June 29 statement that it had cut top
executives’ pay, forced two managers to step down and suspended
some operations following an internal probe into leaks ahead of
2010 equity offerings by  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Inpex
Corp. and Tokyo Electric Power Co. Sales staff appeared to have
been “willing to do anything to meet sales targets,” lawyers
hired by Nomura to investigate the breaches said in a report.  The Japanese firm relied on  domestic operations  to sustain
a return to profitability after posting a record 708 billion-yen
loss in the year ended March 2009, when it bought Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s Asian and European businesses.  Lost Business  The revelations have cost the company business including
bond underwriting for the state-run Development Bank of Japan
Inc. Japan Housing Finance Agency said on July 9 that it
excluded Nomura from managing bond issuances.  Nomura Chief Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe, 59, told
reporters on June 29 that he wasn’t sure whether there were
additional leaks. The Tokyo-based company doesn’t plan to pursue
any more investigations by outside lawyers, he said.  The SESC also found that two managers of a share sale by
 Nippon Sheet Glass Co. (5202)  gave tips in separate cases, without
identifying them. JPMorgan and  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  were
the lead underwriters. New York-based JPMorgan said on May 29
that it’s cooperating with regulators, while Tokyo-based Daiwa,
Japan’s second-biggest brokerage, said on June 29 that it would
examine the incident and strengthen controls.  Lasting Impact  Moody’s Investors Service said losing the bond-underwriting
business following the leaks is credit negative for Nomura and
Daiwa. “We expect a mounting loss of confidence from this
scandal will have a lasting impact on all players in the
Japanese market,” Moody’s said in a note dated July 9.  Japanese regulators have also been active recently in the
global investigation into interest-rate manipulation. Last year,
the FSA became the first regulator to punish banks as part of
the probe, banning Citigroup from trading tied to the London and
Tokyo interbank offered rates for two weeks, and Zurich-based
UBS for a week.  The penalties were dwarfed by the record $451 million fine
U.S. and U.K. regulators handed  Barclays Plc (BARC)  last month in a
case that sparked a British government inquiry and led Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  to resign.  In Japan,  SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. (8316)  is the only brokerage
that has been punished for leaks so far in the insider-trading
probe, after the SESC found that 23 of its sales staff informed
clients about an unidentified company’s plans to sell shares.  Prison Deterrent  Japan’s handling of tipsters contrasts with that of the
U.S., where former Goldman Sachs director Rajat Gupta was
convicted last month of leaking inside information to hedge- fund
manager   Raj Rajaratnam . Gupta, who will be sentenced in October,
faces as many as 20 years in prison for securities fraud.  “No fine, unless it’s extremely punitive, can approach
prison as a deterrent,” said Boxwell of Opera Advisors. “Japan
needs serious reforms to make their capital markets not seem
rigged.”  There are signs that authorities are getting tougher.
Former SMBC Nikko executive Hiroyoshi Yoshioka in June became
the first banker from a major local firm since 2008 to be
arrested on suspicion of insider trading. He and three others
conspired to buy shares in a takeover target for 2.4 million yen
before the bid was announced, according to the SESC.  “It’s encouraging to see Japan regulators shine a light on
some gray areas and highlight the responsibility of brokerages
to safeguard information,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , chief fund
manager at Shinkin Asset Management Co., which manages about 500
billion yen. “But it’ll take time to restore confidence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Russell Ward in Tokyo at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  