-- Jefferson County Creditor Demands Debt Plan by Sept. 28
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-07-10T22:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/jefferson-county-creditor-demands-debt-plan-by-sept-28.html
Alabama ’s bankrupt Jefferson County
should be forced to file a plan outlining how it will adjust its
debts and exit bankruptcy by the end of September, creditor
Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. said in court papers.  Assured asked the judge overseeing the county’s bankruptcy
in Birmingham to force officials to file a plan by Sept. 28. The
request comes about one week before the county begins
negotiating with creditors, county attorney Kenneth Klee said in
an interview.  Before Jefferson County sought court protection from
creditors, the county, state lawmakers and bondholders failed to
implement a proposal to cut debt by about $1 billion. After the
bankruptcy filing, state lawmakers refused to give the county
permission to reimpose a tax that was struck down by the Alabama
Supreme Court.  “There is thus no end in sight to the county’s delay as it
continues to wait for legislative intervention,” Assured said
in court papers. Assured has guaranteed repayment on some of the
county’s $3.2 billion in defaulted sewer bonds.  The county hasn’t negotiated with creditors since filing
the biggest municipal bankruptcy in the U.S. last year, Assured
said in papers filed today in federal court in Birmingham,
Alabama.  ‘Scorched Earth’  “Based on the scorched earth litigation strategy of the
sewer creditors, the county has not had an opportunity to
negotiate a plan of adjustment,” Klee said.  The negotiations set to begin next week in Birmingham will
focus on how the county can pay for future improvements to the
sewer system, which doesn’t bring in enough revenue to pay the
debt. The talks will probably last for months, Klee said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas B. Bennett is unlikely to
disrupt the talks by imposing an arbitrary deadline, Klee said.  Last month, Bennett ruled that the county cannot reduce
payments to sewer bondholders so that it can spend more on its
aging sewer system.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  