-- Jewish Leaders Protest German Ruling Against Circumcision
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-07-10T11:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/jewish-leaders-protest-ruling-against-circumcision-in-germany.html
European rabbis are holding an
emergency meeting today in Berlin after a German court said
circumcising children for religious reasons amounts to bodily
harm even if parents agree to it.  The three-day gathering is to map out a strategy to address
a  ruling  by a district court in Cologne that has sparked
condemnations from Jewish, Muslim and Christian leaders, the
Conference of European Rabbis said.  The decision “is a frontal attack on Jewish life in
Europe,” Pinchas Goldschmidt, who leads the conference, said in
a phone interview. “We see this as part of a trend of mounting
intolerance against religious practices in Europe.”  The ruling may spark political tension between  Israel  and
 Germany . An Israeli parliamentary committee yesterday denounced
the ruling after it met with Andreas Michaelis, the German
ambassador to Israel. An estimated six million Jews died under
the Nazis during the Holocaust in World War II.  Germany, home to about 4 million Muslims and 110,000 Jews,
is working to resolve the issue, Michaelis told the panel.  “We’re happy that the German government understands the
significance of this ruling,” Goldschmidt said, adding that the
court failed to consider how important ritual circumcision is to
the Jewish faith and culture.  Constitutional Issues  The issue of circumcision touches on key aspects of the
German constitution, including religious freedom and parental
rights, Justice Minister Sabine Leutheuser Schnarrenberger said
in an e-mailed statement to Bloomberg today. “That’s why a
precedent-setting decision by the Federal Court of Justice or
the Federal Constitutional Court would be the best way
forward,” Leutheuser Schnarrenberger said in the statement.  Along with being virtually universal among Muslims and
Jews, male circumcision is common in  North America  and most of
West Africa because it is considered hygienic. The  World Health
Organization , which says male circumcision lowers the risk of
acquiring the HIV virus by about  60 percent , says about 30
percent of males were circumcised as of 2006.  Norbert Geis, a lawmaker with the  Christian Social Union ,
the Bavarian sister party of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
Christian Democrats, said the ruling is a “misjudgement.”  Lawmakers will have to act if the current insecurity among
religious groups and doctors persists, Geis said, adding that
he’s confident other courts would decide differently.  “I’d imagine that such a bill would be backed by a broad
majority across all parties,” Geis said of any measure to
ensure circumcision is allowed to continue in Germany.  Bodily Harm Charges  The legal controversy began in Nov. 2010, when a Muslim
couple living in Cologne asked a doctor to circumcise their 4-
year-old son. The doctor circumcised the boy using a local
anaesthetic before treating the wound with four stitches. Two
days after the procedure, the mother rushed her son to the
hospital after the wound began bleeding. The hospital contacted
the police, who started an investigation that led to bodily harm
charges against the doctor.  While the Cologne court in its decision, dated May 7,
acquitted the doctor because of the legal uncertainty at the
time, it ruled male circumcision, even when done properly by a
doctor with the permission of the parents, should be considered
as bodily harm if carried out on a boy unable to give his
consent.  The child’s body would be “permanently and irreparably
changed,” the court said in its decision. The procedure goes
“against the interests of a child to decide for himself later
on to which religion he wishes to belong,” it said.  Sending Signal  While the ruling has no legally binding effect outside this
case, it may “send a signal” to other German courts, said Holm
Putzke, a law professor at Passau University. A doctor
circumcising a child not old enough to consent is now at much
greater risk of committing a crime, Putzke said by phone.  Putzke, who wrote a legal analysis on the issue in 2008,
said he supports the court’s decision because it reflects “the
prevailing legal opinion” that circumcising a boy at such a
young age is medically unnecessary.  “I can understand that this verdict has irritated people,
but this irritation can be resolved if people look at the
reasoning,” Putzke said. “It’s not about banning religious
circumcision, it’s about delaying it until a child can decide
for himself.”  Emergency Meeting  The Jewish community argues that male circumcision, a
4,000-year-old tradition, is integral to its faith. The Cologne
verdict has made Jews in and outside Germany “very
apprehensive,” Goldschmidt said.  The Berlin meeting of about 40 rabbis from around  Europe 
will include updates on the legal situation in Germany, an
overview of worldwide health and public policy toward
circumcision and a proposed strategy for addressing this issue
to the general public, the conference said in a statement.  “This court ruling could have huge ramifications for the
Jewish community far beyond the confines of Germany, if it is
allowed to stand,” Rabbi Avichai Apel, a board member of the
Orthodox Rabbinical Conference of Germany, said in the
statement. The meeting “will enable us to consider together how
best to continue to respond, both within and outside of
Germany.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  