-- Job Openings in U.S. Rose in May After April Plunge
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-07-12T20:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/job-openings-in-u-s-increased-in-may-by-195-000-to-3-64-million.html
(Corrects name of company official in 12th paragraph of
story that ran on July 10th.)  Job openings  increased in May after
plunging the prior month, easing concern the U.S. job market was
faltering.  The number of  positions  waiting to be filled climbed by
195,000 to 3.64 million, partially countering the 294,000 drop
seen in April, the Labor Department said today in Washington.
Another report showed confidence among small companies slumped
in June.  Increasing demand for workers indicates some companies see
an opportunity to expand as sales improve. At the same time, the
report showed firings also picked up, indicating the  European
debt crisis  and slowing growth in  emerging markets  like  China 
may be prompting some employers to cut back.  “The labor market still looks pretty tenuous,” said
 Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
 New York . The April report “sent some worrying signals that
maybe things were in free fall. You have the May report and you
can see businesses were turning a bit more cautious, but they
weren’t completely pulling back.”  Stocks fell for a fourth day as pessimism about the
earnings season grew. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped
0.8 percent to 1,341.47 at the close in New York. The yield on
the benchmark 10-year Treasury note decreased to 1.50 percent
from 1.51 percent late yesterday.  Elsewhere, manufacturing in the U.K. unexpectedly surged in
May by the most in a year, reflecting an additional working day
after a public holiday was moved to last month. In China,
imports rose less than anticipated in June, pushing the  trade
surplus  to a three-year high and adding pressure on the
government to support demand as the global economy slows.  Confidence Wanes  Confidence among U.S. small companies dropped in June to
its lowest point since October, driven by concern that sales and
the economy will deteriorate, another report today showed.  The  National Federation of Independent Business ’ optimism
 index  fell to 91.4 from 94.4 in May, the biggest monthly decline
in two years. Eight of its 10 components contributed to the
slump, the Washington-based group said.  “The immediate future doesn’t look good,”  William Dunkelberg , the group’s chief economist, said in an interview.
“Nobody really expects business conditions and  consumer
spending  to get any better.”  The increase in job openings in May reported by the Labor
Department was broad-based, led by manufacturers and state and
local government agencies, according to today’s report. Only
employers in the arts and entertainment industry had fewer jobs
available.  Hiring Improves  Employment climbed by 148,000 to 4.36 million in May,
pushing the  hiring rate  up to 3.3 percent from 3.2 percent the
prior month. Professional and business services, which include
temporary-help agencies, and health-care providers saw the
biggest increases in staffing.  Catalog Spree, which developed an application for mobile
devices that allows users to browse and shop in catalogs, has
grown to between double and triple the size Chief Executive
Officer Joaquin Ruiz envisioned when he started the firm in
April 2011. The  Los Altos , California-based company now employs
16 workers, up from 3 at the start, a number that may keep
expanding, Ruiz said.  “We’re going to continue hiring in order to both address
our number of users in a more personalized fashion, which
requires more minds at work, and our need for more content,”
Ruiz said in a June 29 interview. “It is extremely challenging
to find the right people.”  More Firings  Total firings, which exclude retirements and those who left
their jobs voluntarily, increased to 1.89 million in May, the
most since July 2010, from 1.74 million a month before, today’s
report showed.  About another 2.12 million people quit their jobs in May,
little changed from 2.11 million the prior month. That pushed
the total  separations rate  to 3.3 percent, the highest since
June 2010.  “Companies are hiring the minimum number of people needed
to do the additional work that needs to be done,”  Carl Camden ,
president and chief executive officer at staffing provider  Kelly
Services Inc. (KELYA) , said last week on Bloomberg’s “Hays Advantage”
with  Kathleen Hays . “They are not making investments in new
products, new ventures, new software beyond what they have to.
They are not going to until there is more economic certainty,
policy certainty, and the situation in  Europe  clears up.”  In the 12 months ended in May, the economy created a net
1.8 million jobs, representing 51.1 million hires and about 49.3
million separations, today’s report showed.  More Candidates  Considering the 12.7 million Americans who were unemployed
in May, today’s figures indicate there are about 3.5 people
vying for every opening, up from about 1.8 when the recession
began in December 2007.  The openings report helps illuminate the dynamics behind
the monthly employment figures, which were released last week.  Payrolls climbed by 80,000 workers in June, less than
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, after a revised 77,000 gain
in May that was larger than initially estimated, the Labor
Department said July 6. The jobless rate held at 8.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  