-- John Breaux, Randall Boe, Ein Cheer Washington Kastles
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-07-10T14:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/john-breaux-randall-boe-ein-cheer-washington-kastles.html
Former U.S. Senator John Breaux
posed with two cheerleaders last night at the  Washington  Kastles
season kickoff party.  While the Washington heat wave had eased into a gentle
balminess, the cheerleaders clung to the minimal garb of their
trade. Also hot, the Washington Kastles are the only undefeated
group in the World Team Tennis coed professional league.  Post-photo op, Breaux, a Louisiana Democrat who now serves
as senior counsel at Patton Boggs LLP, sipped a glass of malbec
on the patio of the Hotel Monaco.  Other Kastles fans drawn to the pep rally included Randall
Boe, executive vice president and general counsel of Monumental
Sports & Entertainment; Michael J. Di Renzo, vice president at
 Jones Lang Lasalle (JLL) ; and William N. Hall, an attorney at Venable
LLP.  Breaux, who has played tennis since college, said he would
participate in the first  Washington Kastles Charity Classic , a
tennis match on July 17 featuring friendly competition among 12
White House staffers, members of Congress, ambassadors and media
stars.  Unlike other Washington sporting events, next week’s
contest won’t pit Democrats against Republicans, but will bring
them together on two teams, “the Stars” and “the Stripes.”  Each team will play seven doubles matches, with tiebreakers
at 10 points. The winning team will receive the Kastles Trophy.  Target Charities  Mark Ein, the owner of the Washington Kastles and chief
executive of  VentureHouse Group LLC , said that the proceeds of
next Tuesday’s game will be divided among three charities: Share
our Strength, a child hunger nonprofit, the D.C. Public
Education Fund, and TAPS, the Tragedy Assistance Program for
Survivors, which helps families of fallen military.  Since starting the Washington Kastles five years ago, Ein
and the team have given $600,000 in cash and goods to the local
community, including 3,000 tennis rackets to Washington youth.  The Kastles boast players such as Venus and  Serena Williams , who recently won her fifth Wimbledon title. She will
play at Kastles Stadium on July 22.  In between sharing Wimbledon stories, guests ate steak
tartare sandwiches and French fries. The Washington Kastles
mascot, a giant green tennis ball with arms and legs named
Topspin, played host by high-fiving the gents and kissing the
ladies.  Cheerleaders stood by throughout the evening with glittery
pom poms. On tables, vases were filled with yellow tennis balls.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  James S. Russell  on the Olympics
design and  Martin Gayford  on theater.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 