-- JPMorgan, EU Bank Supervisor, Barclays, Vivendi: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-07-10T11:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/jpmorgan-eu-banking-supervisor-barclays-vivendi-compliance.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and the U.S.
 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  agreed to let a magistrate
judge handle their dispute over the production of e-mails sought
by the agency in a probe of possible manipulation of energy
markets.  In a one-sentence joint filing yesterday in federal court
in  Washington , JPMorgan and the agency accepted a judge’s
suggestion that the case be assigned to a magistrate judge “for
all purposes” with any appeal going directly to the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  in Washington.  Shortly after the filing was submitted, U.S. District Judge
Colleen Kollar-Kotelly ordered that the case be assigned to a
magistrate judge, noting in her order that one would be selected
at random by the court clerk.  FERC sued JPMorgan on July 2 to release the e-mails in an
investigation of possible manipulation of power markets in
 California  and the Midwest by J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corp.
FERC opened the probe in August after complaints from California
and Midwest grid operators that JPMorgan’s bidding practices
were abusive, according to the agency’s initial court filing.  The case is Federal Energy Regulatory Commission v. J.P.
Morgan Ventures Energy Corp., 12-mc-352, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  Compliance Policy  EU to Propose Single Supervisor for All Banks, Barnier Says  A single supervisor for banks called for by euro-area
leaders last month should oversee all lenders in the bloc, not
only those deemed to be systemically important,  Michel Barnier 
said.  The new supervisory mechanism should be in place by the end
of the year as part of plans for a banking union to help tame
the euro debt crisis, Barnier, the EU’s internal market
commissioner, said at a hearing in Brussels yesterday. The body
should, at a minimum, supervise banks in all 17 countries that
use the single currency, he said.  “I think it will need to cover all banks, of course,”
Barnier told lawmakers in the European Parliament’s economic and
monetary affairs committee. Responsibilities could be delegated
to national regulators through decentralization, he said.  Euro  leaders said  on June 29 that it’s “imperative to
break the vicious circle between banks and sovereigns.” To this
end, they said that once a single supervisor, involving the
 European Central Bank , is established, the euro area’s permanent
bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, could
recapitalize banks directly.  Leaders called on the European Commission to present
proposals for a single bank supervisor “shortly.” Barnier said
the commission will unveil its plan in September.  European Banks Able to Meet Capital Targets, Bank Watchdog Says  European banks  reached a target of raising 114.7 billion
euros ($141 billion) in fresh capital by the end of June,
according to a European Union document.  The “capital shortfall” has “been largely raised from
private sources and where necessary public backstops were
activated,” according to a memorandum prepared for EU finance
ministers for a Brussels meeting today that was obtained by
Bloomberg News.  The  European Banking Authority  told lenders to meet a core
Tier-1 capital ratio of 9 percent by the end of June, and hold
additional reserves, called a sovereign buffer, against the debt
of weaker euro-area countries, based upon the market price of
the bonds. The measures were part of a response to the sharp
fall in the value of securities issued by euro-area governments.  “The EBA exercise was a necessary step on the road to
repair banks’ balance sheets and strengthen their capital
base,” the document said. “The recommendation will remain in
force until the normalization of risks.”  A preliminary report will be released tomorrow, according
to the document, with more detailed results to be published in
September.  Franca Rosa Congiu, a spokeswoman for the EBA in  London ,
didn’t immediately return a telephone voice-mail message seeking
comment.  Tucker Says No Public Official Told Him to Lean on Barclays  Bank of England  Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said no
government minister or official pressured him to instruct
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  or any other U.K. commercial bank to lowball its
Libor submissions during the financial crisis.  “Absolutely not,” Tucker told lawmakers in London
yesterday, when asked if anybody from the civil service or the
then Labour government leaned on him to ask banks to lower their
Libor submissions. He also said some of a memo written by former
Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  after an October
2008 phone call between the two gave “the wrong impression.”  Tucker’s two-hour testimony followed the record 290
million-pound ($449 million) fine imposed on Barclays last month
for manipulation of the London interbank offered rate. The
scandal, which Tucker described as a “cesspit,” has
jeopardized his position as the front-runner to replace  Mervyn
King  as governor of the Bank of England.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Vivendi Reviews Due as Agency Toughens Policing of Mergers  France ’s  Antitrust Authority  will decide by July 24 whether
to approve the revised union of  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Canal Plus  pay-
television unit with Television Par Satellite, its chief said
yesterday.  The regulator in September canceled the 2006 deal after
finding that Canal Plus hadn’t met all the conditions imposed to
ensure the merger didn’t harm competition.  Regulators in the deal are seeking diversity in the pay-TV
industry, a greater range of packages for consumers, and steps
that don’t “destabilize” the  film industry , Bruno Lasserre,
the agency’s chief, said yesterday in Paris. The regulator won’t
require the company to sell off its CanalSat distribution arm,
he said.  The Authority has taken a tough stand on merger approval
since 2009, when it took responsibility for authorizing deals
from the  finance ministry . So far this year, it has imposed
conditions on seven deals, the same number as in 2011 and 2010
combined. The regulator has also fined companies for not living
up to the conditions of merger authorizations.  Its cancellation of the Vivendi merger was the first time
the Authority has done so for failure to comply with terms. The
authority also imposed a 30 million-euro ($37 million) fine on
Canal Plus.  Spokesmen for Vivendi, Canal Plus and Bigard didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment on the regulator’s
actions.  Japan Checking Possible Insider Trading of ANA, Official Says  Japan ’s securities watchdog is examining possible  insider
trading  of  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  shares before last week’s
announcement of a public offering, a government official with
direct knowledge of the matter said.  The  Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission  is
studying share movements before the July 3 announcement and will
conduct hearings to determine whether underwriters leaked
information, said the official, who requested anonymity as the
investigation is private.  Japanese regulators are cracking down on insider trading
after finding that employees of firms including  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604)  tipped off clients about share sales they managed in 2010.
Moody’s Investors Service said such leaks may be “more than a
rare occurrence” and the loss of confidence from the scandal
will damage local securities firms.  Trading volume  of All Nippon Airways shares reached a
three-month high the day before news of the 211 billion yen
($2.6 billion) issuance became public, led by short-selling,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The moves were
“unnatural,” ANA spokesman Ryosei Nomura said on July 6.  ANA’s Nomura said the airline currently has no plan to take
action after receiving assurances from the four underwriters --
Nomura Holdings,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  -- that they didn’t leak information.  Spokesmen at the four banks declined to comment. An SESC
spokesman who asked not to be named also declined to comment,
saying he wasn’t authorized to discuss individual companies with
the media. ANA spokeswoman Megumi Tezuka said the carrier is
unaware of the regulator’s examination.  ANA, Japan’s biggest carrier, announced its share sale at 4
p.m. on July 3. Investors traded 24 million ANA shares on the
previous day, the most since March 27, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The stock declined as much as 2.7 percent
on July 2 before closing 0.9 percent lower, while the benchmark
Topix Index dropped 0.1 percent.  For more, click here.  Lawsuits  Dendreon, Prostate Drug Maker, Sued Over 2011 Stock Drop  Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) , the maker of the prostate-cancer medicine
Provenge, was sued by an investor claiming the company withheld
information about sales that led to a 2011  share price drop .  Company officers and directors misused proprietary
information about Provenge, which costs $93,000 per therapy
cycle, by not revealing that doctors were reluctant to prescribe
it because they had to pay up front and may have trouble getting
reimbursed from Medicaid or private insurers, Investor Herbert
Silverberg claims.  The reimbursement issue was “a consistent topic of concern
internally,” while officials “touted lofty goals” for the
drug, according to the Delaware Chancery Court complaint filed
yesterday in Wilmington.  Provenge was approved in the U.S. in 2010 as the first
therapy designed to train the body’s immune system to attack
cancer cells as if they were a virus.  The following year, the company “acknowledged that
acceptance of Provenge would be a much more gradual process,”
than first thought, according to the complaint. Dendreon shares
fell 67 percent, from $35.84 on Aug. 3 to $11.69 the next day,
plaintiff’s lawyers contend.  In the so-called derivative lawsuit, Silverberg asks a
judge to award damages from officials to the company,
“disgorgement of all profits” from wrongdoing and positive
corporate governance provisions to protect shareholders in the
future.  “While it is our practice not to comment on litigation, we
believe this suit is baseless and without merit,” Lindsay
Rocco, a spokeswoman for Dendreon, said in an e-mailed message.  The case is Silverberg v. Gold, CA7646, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in  New York  at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 