-- JPMorgan Silence on Risk Model Spurs Calls for Disclosure
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-07-10T17:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/jpmorgan-silence-on-risk-model-spurs-calls-for-disclosure.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s multibillion-
dollar trading loss exposed an industry practice that U.S.
regulators are now likely to clamp down on: Banks keep investors
in the dark about how they calculate trading risks.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is probing
JPMorgan’s belated May 10 disclosure that a change to its
mathematical model for gauging trading risk helped fuel the loss
in its chief investment office. While the SEC would have to
prove that the biggest  U.S. bank  improperly kept important
information from investors, regulators probably will press Wall
Street firms to tell more about the risks they’re taking, three
former SEC lawyers said.  “The SEC and investors are learning that apparently the
compliance folks and financial folks at very senior levels at
JPMorgan do not think it’s important to share really significant
modeling changes,” said Elizabeth Nowicki, a former attorney in
the SEC general counsel’s office who’s now an associate law
professor at  Tulane University  in New Orleans.  So far, New York-based JPMorgan has added a warning in its
most  recent quarterly report  that risk models are continually
tweaked to account for “improvements” in modeling techniques,
and the head of the SEC has publicly asserted that banks should
disclose significant changes and the reasons.  The dispute revolves around value-at-risk, the main and
sometimes only empirical gauge that investors get as they try to
fathom how much a bank could lose if its trading bets go bad.
Wall Street firms routinely give only broad outlines of how
their mathematicians calculate VaR, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, and almost nothing about changes in statistical
assumptions or the prices they choose to feed into their models.  London Whale  The skewed comparisons can leave investors guessing about
whether the potential for loss is rising or falling, according
to risk analysts. Adding to the muddle, some bankers including
JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  have told investors
not to rely too much on VaR, calling it just one part of their
effort to manage risks at the biggest lenders.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  told a Congressional panel last
month that her agency is scrutinizing the banks’ disclosures
about the change in VaR models for its chief investment office,
which invests the banks’ excess cash. The Federal Reserve and
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency are  examining  why the
change was made and whether it’s a sign of weakness in risk-
management practices.  Formula Changed  They’re asking because JPMorgan changed its calculation
methods on Jan. 15 for the CIO as the unit was grappling with
how to unwind stakes held by Bruno Iksil. The U.K.-based
executive was dubbed “the London Whale” after his trades
became so big that they distorted prices in an illiquid market,
making it hard to get out of the positions.  Losses on the trades may have climbed to $4 billion in the
second quarter, according to  John McDonald , an analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., far exceeding the amounts predicted
by JPMorgan’s VaR gauge.  Value-at-risk represents the maximum trading loss that
might be expected by JPMorgan on 95 out of 100 trading days. The
SEC  ordered  banks to disclose information about their market
risks through a rule adopted in 1997.  ‘Nefarious Purposes’  JPMorgan didn’t tell investors about the change in its
formula before it took effect, or in its first-quarter earnings
report on April 13, when it said the figure averaged $67
million. It wasn’t until May 10, after losses mounted to about
$2 billion, that the bank disclosed that the formula had changed
-- and that it had been discarded in favor of the old one, which
showed average VaR was actually $129 million. JPMorgan’s shares
have tumbled 17 percent since then through yesterday, the worst
showing among the four biggest U.S. banks.  Dimon, 56, told a Congressional panel last month that his
bank has hundreds of computer-based models for estimating
trading risk and they’re constantly updated. He said that the
change in the VaR model and its lower reading “did effectively
increase the amount of risk that this unit was able to take,”
adding he didn’t believe it was altered for “nefarious
purposes.”  There’s “tremendous subjectivity” in how VaR is
calculated, said  Aaron Brown , a former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  executive who’s now head of risk management at hedge
fund AQR Capital Management LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut. In
his 32-year career, Brown said, he had never seen a bank
disclose a change in the risk model for a specific trading desk.  ‘Continuously Evaluated’  “What would you tell people, that we changed this
parameter that we never told you about in the first place?”
Brown said. The threshold might depend on the potential impact,
he said. “Maybe it was so big it should have been disclosed.”  Not once in the three years before JPMorgan’s trading loss
did the bank disclose a change in any risk models for specific
trading desks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Underscoring the point, JPMorgan’s  quarterly report  on May
10 included a disclaimer -- for the first time -- that risk
models are changed frequently.  “VaR models are continuously evaluated and enhanced in
response to changes in the composition of the firm’s portfolios,
changes in market conditions and dynamics, improvements in the
firm’s modeling techniques, system capabilities and other
factors,” the bank said on page 73 of the 178-page report.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to
comment on VaR, citing the bank’s plan to discuss the CIO’s
losses in conjunction with a July 13 second-quarter earnings
announcement.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment
on the agency’s investigation.  JPMorgan isn’t alone in tweaking its risk models behind the
scenes or employing discretion to calculate the figure.  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Citigroup also make changes to their VaR
models regularly, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Analysts’ Questions  Schapiro, 57,  testified  before the House Financial Services
Committee on June 19 that banks’ quarterly reports are supposed
to include “discussion and analysis” of any “material changes
in the market risk.”  They must also “disclose any changes to key model
characteristics and to the assumptions and parameters used, as
well as the reasons for the change,” she said. “Changes to the
scope of the instruments included within the model and the
reasons for those changes must be disclosed as well.”  Value-at-risk is critical enough to investors that analysts
including  Guy Moszkowski , formerly of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , and
 Glenn Schorr  of Nomura Holdings Inc. asked Dimon during at least
three quarterly conference calls about changes in the figure.  Other Tools  Dimon, responding in April 2009, said that he didn’t “pay
that much attention to VaR.” In January 2010, he told analysts
that it was “really not an accurate measure of risk.” JPMorgan
uses data going back one year, Dimon said, so the figure might
fall just because a volatile week was no longer included in the
calculation. He didn’t mention then that the models themselves
were constantly changing.  “It was exceedingly difficult for third-party analysts to
diagnose the magnitude of JPMorgan’s CIO hedging portfolio risk
buildup based on bank-provided disclosures,”  David Hendler , an
analyst at CreditSights Inc., wrote in a June 18 report. Only
“on-the-ground”  hedge funds  trading credit derivatives could
discern the buildup, he wrote.  JPMorgan supplements its VaR modeling with other risk-
management tools, including “stress tests,” in which bank
officials estimate how trading positions might perform in
deteriorating economic conditions or market turmoil, according
to the bank’s annual report. The results of the internal stress
tests aren’t disclosed.  Harvey Pitt , a former SEC chairman, said the agency might
allege that when JPMorgan adopted the new VaR model in January,
it should have disclosed any perceived defects with the old one
-- and how results might have differed with the new model.  SEC’s Concerns  “The SEC would be concerned about how JPMorgan became
aware of the original problems, how it satisfied itself that it
had repaired those deficiencies and how much assurance it had
that its new model would perform,” Pitt wrote in an e-mail.
“JPMorgan did not bother to address these issues.”  Based on past regulatory practice, bringing a case against
the bank may not be warranted, said Edward Greene, a former SEC
general counsel who later served as legal chief for Citigroup’s
trading and investment-banking division.  “All these banks have a VaR approach, and they come up
with a range of values that they disclose, but to my knowledge
the SEC has never required you to give much background as to how
you change it or adjust it,” said Greene, now senior counsel at
the law firm Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP in New York.
The SEC “may have to show that there would be some intent to
deceive the market, or reckless disregard.”  Evolving Models  Banks typically disclose only changes to the broadest
parameters of their risk models. In 2008, for example, JPMorgan
switched its VaR formula to use the 95 percent “confidence
level” from 99 percent, according to the bank’s  annual report
for that year . The move, which reduced the bank’s year-end VaR
to $286 million from $317 million, was intended to “provide a
more stable measure,” the bank said.  Goldman Sachs changed its VaR model in 2004 to exclude
“distressed asset portfolios” that couldn’t “be properly
measured,” according to the bank’s  annual report  filed in
February 2005. The impact of the change was “not material to
prior periods,” so previously reported figures weren’t
adjusted, New York-based Goldman Sachs said. The company’s
recent filings haven’t disclosed changes to any VaR model for a
particular trading desk.  Risk Estimates  Morgan Stanley, owner of world’s largest brokerage, has
included a disclaimer in its  annual report  since at least 1998
stating that its VaR model “evolves over time” in response to
“improvements in modeling techniques and systems
capabilities.” Bank of America’s  annual report  for this year
included the line, “We continually review, evaluate and enhance
our VaR model.”  Citigroup said in its annual report its VaR model is
updated weekly. In the first quarter, a 10 percent drop in the
New York-based bank’s average VaR compared with the prior three-
month period was “primarily driven by a change in VaR model
parameters,” according to a May 4 filing.  Jon Diat, a Citigroup spokesman, said the firm “provides
extensive disclosure on value-at-risk.”  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley in
New York, declined to comment, as did  Jerry Dubrowski  at
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America and Goldman
Sachs’s  Michael DuVally .  ‘Subjective Judgment’  Risk modelers and mathematicians at banks routinely make
choices that affect the VaR calculation, said AQR’s Brown, who
in February was named “ risk manager of the year ” by the Global
Association of Risk Professionals, a trade group. For instance,
banks can base their risk estimates on absolute numbers or
percentage changes.  “That is something that might change without somebody
noting it in an annual report,” said Steve Allen, a former head
of risk methodology for JPMorgan who retired in 2004. “It could
have made a really big difference.”  When calculating VaR for an asset without a complete
pricing history, traders and risk managers have to choose a
“proxy” -- an asset whose price moves are believed to be
similar to those of the asset being modeled.  “The choice of proxy is a subjective judgment,” said
Allen, now a consultant based in New York.  Goldman Sachs regularly tweaks its models, Chief Financial
Officer David Viniar said in May at a Citigroup-sponsored money-
management conference in Napa County, California, according two
people with knowledge of the remarks. What’s unusual is for a
model change to result in a doubling of the VaR, Viniar said,
according to the people, who asked not to be identified because
the session wasn’t public.  ‘Terrible Precedent’  Viniar added that JPMorgan executives are good risk
managers, one of the people said.  The SEC “could allege that the books and records were not
accurate, or that they failed to disclose material facts or
amend timely obligatory disclosures,” said  Jacob Frenkel , a
former SEC enforcement lawyer who’s now at the law firm  Shulman
Rogers Gandal Pordy & Ecker PA  in Potomac, Maryland. “But it is
a terrible precedent if the SEC starts second-guessing or
expecting that every tweak of a model or a calculation for
legitimate reasons should somehow implicate a violation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  