-- Kenya’s Deepwater Debut Heralds East Africa’s First Oil: Energy
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-07-11T14:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/kenya-s-deepwater-debut-heralds-east-africa-s-first-oil-energy.html
Apache Corp. (APA)  will drill  Kenya ’s
first deepwater oil well next month, a prospect that could add a
$70 billion crude find to the record natural-gas discoveries
along East Africa’s coast.  Apache and partners including  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  said the Mbawa
well is likely to strike oil based on seismic data and slicks
seen on the Indian Ocean’s surface. The drilling is targeting as
much as 700 million barrels, a resource valued at twice Kenya’s
annual economic output at today’s oil prices. With a 50 percent
a stake in the well, a strike could add more than 10 percent to
Houston-based Apache’s reserves.  “What we are looking at in this well is to see if we can
actually change the paradigm” in what’s been a gas-prone area,
Tullow Chief Financial Officer Ian Springett said in a phone
interview. “It’s a high-risk, high-upside well.”  East Africa  has become one of the world’s most active
exploration areas since  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  made the
decade’s biggest gas discovery off Mozambique. An oil find would
be a boon for Kenya as the commodity is easier to sell than the
gas found in neighboring Tanzania and Mozambique, which will
require spending at least $50 billion on export plants. The Lamu
basin, where Mbawa is sited, may hold as much as 5 billion
barrels, according to one of the well’s partners.  The Mbawa seismic study indicates the possible presence of
gas and crude, Bob Brackett, an oil analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., wrote in a May report. “Another indicator of
oil -- sea surface oil slicks that have been collected” in the
area, he said.  Africa Explorers  Explorers in East Africa including Anadarko,  Statoil ASA (STL) ,
 Eni SpA (ENI)  and  BG Group Plc (BG/)  have discovered more than 100 trillion
cubic feet of gas, enough to meet U.S. demand for more than four
years.  The interest in East Africa can be seen in the bidding war
for Anadarko’s London-listed partner  Cove Energy Plc (COV)  between
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP) ,
putting Europe’s largest oil company against Thailand’s state
energy producer. The battle has more than doubled Cove’s share
price this year.  “Exploration of East Africa is at a very, very early
stage, and yet success so far has been very significant,”
 Andrew Whittock , a London-based analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd.,
said by phone. “Most industry is following behind and trying to
establish positions.”  Apache, the second-largest U.S. independent oil and
natural-gas producer by market value, will operate the Mbawa
well in the  L8 Block . The  Deepsea Metro  1 rig will take about
two months to drill to the 3,250-meter (10,663-foot) target
depth at a cost of more than $60 million. The partners may
follow up with the Tai well, which could hold 500 million
barrels of oil resources, according to Apache.  ‘Looks Attractive’  “There are no wells in our block so we can’t say
definitively that the crude is there,” John Bedingfield, a vice
president for exploration at Apache, told investors in June.
“From a prospect perspective, we think it looks fairly
attractive.”  John Roper , an Apache spokesman, declined to comment on
Kenya beyond the company’s statements at its June investor
 conference .  The Lamu basin geology is similar to areas in Madagascar,
the island that was joined to East Africa before splitting apart
about 145 million years ago. Since the 1970s, Royal Dutch Shell
Plc,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and Eni along with other companies have
drilled in  Madagascar , which holds 24 billion barrels of heavy
oil resources,  according  to  Afren Plc. (AFR)  Only about a  dozen wells 
were drilled off the island.  Pulled Apart  “Historically Madagascar was attached to Kenya and during
the rifting it pulled apart,” said Frank Patterson, a vice
president on exploration at Anadarko. “We also have seen data
in Mozambique that indicates there is potential for oil source
rock in there too. We are still high on oil in East Africa, but
it’s got to be in the right setting.”  Tullow Oil, which holds the most exploration licenses in
Africa of any U.K.-based explorers, has opened four frontier oil
and gas provinces in  French Guiana , Ghana,  Uganda  and Kenya,
with more than 4 billion barrels since 2007. Using continental
drift theory worked when it found crude in French Guiana, which
split from West Africa, an oil-producing region, millions of
years ago. In March it discovered crude at on onshore well in
Kenya.  Two years ago, Anadarko said it discovered East Africa’s
first deep-water oil with its Ironclad well in the Rovuma Basin
off Mozambique. In February, Statoil and Exxon followed up with
the Zafarani well off Tanzania, which opened an older reservoir
with crude potential. Both wells need more testing to prove
petroleum resources.  Cheaper to Produce  “We are still trying to understand what Ironclad means,”
Patterson said. “We have some theories and we are going to
drill some wells in the southern part of our block later this
year.”  Eni  and Total SA have secured the latest four exploration
licenses off Kenya, according to the companies.  Woodside
Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s second-biggest oil producer, in 2006
drilled the  deepest  Kenyan offshore well as of 2011, which
failed to find oil or gas.  Most  oil companies  prefer to find crude oil reserves rather
than natural gas because it’s cheaper to produce and supply to
customers. Crude can be loaded on a tanker and shipped worldwide
from remote fields, while gas has to be chilled and liquefied
before shipping, what requires higher investment in LNG plants.  “Oil is a simpler story,” said Al Stanton, managing
director for oil and gas research at  RBC Capital Markets . “ Gas
is still playing some sort of second figure to oil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  