-- King Told Agius Diamond No Longer Had Regulator Support
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-07-10T13:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/king-told-agius-diamond-no-longer-had-regulator-support-1-.html
Barclays Plc Chairman Marcus Agius
said  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  told him that Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  had lost the support of
regulators, prompting his departure.  Diamond’s resignation was announced on July 3, the morning
after a 6 p.m. London-time meeting with King, Agius and Michael Rake, the then-head of the bank’s audit committee, Agius told
British lawmakers in the House of Commons’ Treasury Select
Committee today.  King “was saying he had no power to direct us, but he felt
it was sufficiently important for us to be told in absolute
terms what the situation was,” Agius said. “It was made very
clear that Bob Diamond no longer enjoyed the support of his
regulators.”  Agius’s testimony follows a record 290 million-pound ($450
million) fine imposed on Barclays last month for the attempted
manipulation of the London interbank offered rate, the benchmark
for more than $360 trillion of securities. The scandal has cost
the jobs of three top executives of Britain’s second-largest
bank, including Agius and Diamond.  Following the conversation with King, Agius held a board
meeting with the non-executive directors and then spoke with
Diamond.  “The Governor made it perfectly clear that any decision
that would be taken would be taken by the board or  Bob Diamond 
individually,” Agius said.  ‘Loaded Revolver’  Agius, who became chairman in 2007, relayed the King
conversation to Diamond, who “was not in a good place,” he
said. Diamond asked for some time to speak to his family before
making a decision, Agius said.  “You were handing him a loaded revolver weren’t you?”
Committee Chairman  Andrew Tyrie  said.  “We left confident that if he hadn’t already made the
decision, he would make the right decision,” Agius said. “It
would have been foolish in the extreme for us not to have
referred back to him with our contingent, interim proposals.”  Diamond will forgo as much as 20 million pounds of bonuses
after stepping down, Agius said. He will receive about 2 million
pounds in salary and pension payments, about a 10th of his full
entitlement.  Barclays (BARC)  had been under pressure to limit Diamond’s
severance after the record fine. Diamond, Britain’s best-paid
bank CEO, has earned about 120 million pounds in pay and bonuses
since 2005, according to Manifest Information Services Ltd.  Losing Support  “We went from Wednesday night, when Diamond had the
support of the regulators, to Monday night, when he did not have
the support of the regulators,” Agius said.  Separately, Agius also said the bank’s relationship with
its customers is suffering because some clients are often in
financial difficulties.  “What has gone wrong is that we have an industry that
believes it’s doing the right thing and we have a public that
tells us, their representatives, that it’s not,” said John Thurso, a Liberal Democrat member of parliament.  “The whole nation is still suffering from the effects of
the financial crisis,” Agius said. “Many of our customers are
suffering because of their financial situation and they very
often are unhappy with the way the relationship with the bank
comes from.”  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Steve Bailey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  