-- KLA-Tencor Falls on Forecast for Orders: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-07-10T20:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/kla-tencor-rises-after-saying-sales-were-at-high-end-of-range.html
KLA-Tencor Corp. (KLAC) , a maker of
machinery used in the production of semiconductors, fell after
the company said orders in the current quarter will decline as
makers of memory chips hold off on boosting production.  KLA-Tencor shares  declined  less than 1 percent to $45.49 at
the close in  New York . The comments on orders from Chief
Executive Officer Rick Wallace erased earlier gains in the
stock, which had risen as much as 2.6 percent after he said
sales in the quarter that ended in June came in at the high end
of the company’s forecast range.  “We do think we’ll be sequentially down in September and
everything we see says it gets better in December,” Wallace
said at a company presentation in  San Francisco  today.  The Milpitas, California-based company, which makes tools
that verify the proper completion of different stages in chip
production, gave its forecasts after larger competitor  Applied
Materials Inc. (AMAT)  earlier today cut its fiscal 2012 sales estimate,
citing weak demand from foundries, companies that manufacture
chips on a contract basis for other electronics makers.  KLA-Tencor, by contrast, is getting stronger orders from
foundries, while makers of memory chips aren’t ordering as many
machines, Wallace said.  The company had previously said sales in the recent period
would be $840 million to $900 million. While the total market
for chipmaking machinery will decline by 10 percent to 15
percent in 2012 from last year, KLA-Tencor expects its own
annual sales to rise at a percentage “in the mid-single
digits,” Wallace said.  KLA-Tencor shares have dropped 5.7 percent this year,
compared with a decline of less than 1 percent for the
 Philadelphia Semiconductor Index. (SOX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  