-- Kleiner Loses Bid to Move Discrimination Suit to Arbitration
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-07-10T20:09:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/kleiner-loses-bid-to-move-discrimination-suit-to-arbitration-2-.html
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers
lost its bid to move a lawsuit accusing the venture capital firm
of sexual discrimination to arbitration.  California  Judge Harold Kahn today rejected the firm’s
argument that it had an agreement with Ellen Pao, a partner at
the firm and an employee there since 2005, requiring the case to
be resolved out of court. Yesterday, Kahn issued a tentative
ruling rejecting Kleiner’s request, finding that no such
agreement existed. Kahn made his final ruling today without
prejudice, meaning that the firm can refile its request.  Pao sued the firm May 10 based on claims the firm treats
female employees unfairly. Pao said she was denied promotion and
suffered a loss of compensation and other employment benefits
because of the firm’s actions.  Lynne Hermle, a lawyer representing Kleiner Perkins, said
Pao claims she is owed “carried interest,” the profit from
investments that is shared among partners, from various firm
funds. Those funds are governed by “managing” limited
liability corporations that have arbitration clauses, Hermle
said.  ‘Carried Interest’  “What she seeks is carried interest -- the very lucrative,
sometimes, payouts that come from the managing LLCs,” and that
money can “only be obtained from the managing LLCs,” Hermle
said. Pao “can’t avoid her arbitration agreement by choosing to
sue the wrong” entity, Hermle said. “She cannot obtain the
carried interest which she specifically seeks without the
contract that contains the arbitration clauses.”  Kahn said he disagreed with the argument on grounds that he
understands Pao to be seeking “damages” from her employer,
 Kleiner Perkins .  “Ms. Pao is only suing one defendant, and there’s only one
defendant I must look to to see if there’s an arbitration
agreement,” he told Hermle. Over the objections of Pao’s
lawyer, Alan Exelrod, Kahn told Hermle he’ll give Kleiner
Perkins a chance to reformulate its arguments by July 13.  Kahn’s Willingness  Kleiner Perkins is “encouraged” by Kahn’s willingness to
hear the arguments, the firm said in an e-mailed statement.  “KPCB continues to believe it has strong arguments and
precedent to move the matter to arbitration,” the firm said.
“Ms. Pao, like other partners, signed a variety of standard
agreements requiring, among other things, that all disputes be
resolved through arbitration. We expect arbitration to be a more
efficient and speedier dispute resolution process than trying a
matter before a jury years down the line in the  San Francisco 
Superior Court.”  John Doerr , the firm’s lead partner, said in a May 30
statement that the suit is “without merit,” based on the
results of an independent investigation.  “We have taken great care to treat this situation
seriously, swiftly and with integrity,” Doerr said in the
statement. “The investigator’s report concluded that the
allegations are without merit and that our firm does not
discriminate on the basis of gender.”  The case is is Pao v. Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers
LLC, CGC-12-520719, Superior Court of the State of California
(San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  