-- Komatsu Has No Plans to Buy Joy Global After Study, CEO Says
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2012-07-10T06:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/komatsu-has-no-plans-to-buy-joy-global-after-study-ceo-says-1-.html
Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , the world’s second-
biggest maker of  dump trucks , has no plans to bid for  Joy Global
Inc. (JOY)  after studying the U.S. company as there are few synergies
to aid its foray into underground mining equipment.  “While we often consider mergers and acquisitions, it
wouldn’t be beneficial for us to do so without synergies,”
Chief Executive Officer Kunio Noji said in an interview in
Tokyo, where the company is based. Komatsu aims to offer
“innovative” products to beat competition in a new business,
he said.  Joy Global became the target of takeover speculation after
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ’s $8.8 billion acquisition of mining-equipment
maker Bucyrus International Inc. last year. The Milwaukee-based
company may attract suitors such as Komatsu that are willing to
bet on a rebound in commodity prices, BB&T  Capital Markets  said
last month.  Komatsu hasn’t held any talks with the company, Noji said.
The Japanese maker of construction and mining equipment has yet
to identify a target that offers value-added products and
technology and will probably seek to enter the business through
in-house development, he said.  “A latecomer wouldn’t be able to win a competition just by
imitating others,” Noji said in the July 5 interview.  Present methods of underground mining don’t ensure the
safety of workers and Komatsu will need to develop automated
machinery to avoid accidents, such as the one in 2010 when 33
Chilean workers were trapped underground for more than two
months, Noji said.  Joy Shares  Joy Global  shares  plunged 3.2 percent in  New York  trading
yesterday. Komatsu fell 3.5 percent to 1,818 yen in Tokyo. The
stock has gained 1.1 percent this year, lagging behind a 4.8
percent gain in the key Nikkei index.  Komatsu, whose dump trucks and excavators are used in open
pit mining, needs to add underground mining equipment because
reserves in open-pit copper mines will become more scarce in the
next 10 to 20 years, Noji said in November. Sweden’s  Atlas Copco
AB (ATCOA)  and closely held heavy-machinery maker Liebherr-International
Deutschland GmbH of Germany also produce underground mining
equipment.  In China, the world’s biggest market for construction
equipment, there have been few signs of a recovery in demand
after the government’s monetary tightening measures cooled the
market, Noji said.  China Sales  Komatsu sales of excavators in  China  fell more than half in
the three months ended June 30 from a year earlier, he said.
Domestic and overseas suppliers of mining equipment may have
accumulated inventories of more than six months, increasing
concern about a rebound in demand, he said.  “Chinese demand may decline in the year ending March 31,
although it was expected to remain flat under our business
plan,” he said.  In Japan, efforts to rebuild the nation’s northeastern
region after last year’s earthquake and tsunami are driving
demand for construction equipment. The pace of growth in
 Indonesia  slowed after a decline in coal prices in the past
month, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in  Tokyo  at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  