-- Korea Bonds Decline as Central Bank Seen Holding Rate; Won Falls
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-07-10T07:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/korean-bonds-decline-ahead-of-central-bank-meeting-won-weakens.html
South  Korea ’s government bonds fell
for the first time in six days as economists forecast the
central bank will leave borrowing costs unchanged this week even
as a global economic recovery falters.  The  Bank of Korea  will keep its benchmark  rate  at 3.25
percent for a 13th month on July 12, according to 13 out of 15
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Two predict a 25 basis
point cut. Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan told reporters
yesterday that the central bank will make a “wise rate
decision,” mentioning that the  International Monetary Fund  has
made recommendations on policy. The won declined on speculation
South Korean importers are buying the dollar to settle bills.  “Bonds fell after the finance minister’s comments weakened
sentiment expecting a rate cut and as data showed South Korean
banks were selling bond futures,” said Kim Kyung Hun, a Seoul-
based bond trader at Hana Bank.  The yield on the government’s 3.25 percent bonds due June
2015 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.22
percent at the close in  Seoul , Korea Exchange Inc. prices show.
The rate touched 3.21 percent yesterday, the lowest for a
 benchmark  three-year note since December 2010. Ten-year yields
advanced one basis point to 3.53 percent.  “Ten-year bond yields failing to fall below 3.50 percent
also eased bullish bets,” Kim said.  Three-year debt futures dropped 0.06 to 104.95, after a
six-day advance, and the one-year interest-rate swap fell one
basis point to 3.26 percent.  ‘Appropriate Response’  Maintaining  South Korea ’s policy rate at the current level
is an appropriate response to global economic weakness and
uncertainties, the IMF said in a statement on June 12. The
monetary-policy stance is still accommodative, and when growth
strengthens from its current moderation, some increase in the
policy rate may be needed in early 2013, the fund added. Still,
the BOK has room to cut rates if the economy weakens
significantly, according to the statement.  The won declined 0.2 percent to 1,143.75 per dollar in
Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency’s
one-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings
used to price options, slid 28 basis points to 7.40 percent. The
 Kospi Index (KOSPI)  of shares fell for a third day, closing at the
lowest level in almost two weeks.  “Investors are less sensitive about news from  Europe  now,
and today’s currency movements were triggered by importers
buying the dollar for deal settlement,” said Lee Yong Hee, a
Seoul-based currency trader at Industrial Bank of Korea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  