-- N.J. Revenue May Fall $200 Million Below Christie Target
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-07-10T19:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/n-j-revenue-may-fall-200-million-below-christie-target.html
New Jersey ’s revenue for the fiscal
year that ended June 30 may trail Governor  Chris Christie ’s
latest targets by as much as $200 million, according to the
Legislature’s chief budget analyst.  The estimate is based on assumptions because last month’s
tax collections are incomplete,  David Rosen  of the nonpartisan
Office of Legislative Services said in a memo to lawmakers. June
sales taxes won’t be remitted to the state until July 20 and
there may be transfers and adjustments to corporate collections,
he said.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, called Rosen’s
note “rank speculation.” Collections in the state’s three
biggest revenue sources are $85 million higher than estimates
that state Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff gave in May,  Kevin
Roberts , another Christie spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “The revenue picture for New Jersey at the close of fiscal
year 2012 is actually stronger than last year and showing signs
of continued growth,” Roberts said. “This isn’t based on
revenue estimates, it’s based on the real numbers.”  Sidamon-Eristoff said in May that revenue through June 2013
would trail Christie’s initial target by $676 million, while
Rosen has said the gap may be almost twice that size.  Tax Cut  Trailing collections led the Democratic-controlled
Legislature to send Christie a $31.7 billion budget that delayed
a tax cut until midway through this fiscal year, to see if
revenue meets his targets.  The actual closing balance for fiscal 2012 won’t be known
until the state releases its annual financial report in
December, Rosen said.  Christie, 49, a first-term Republican, has promised to
criticize Democrats in “every corner of this state” until they
approve legislation enabling his tax cut to take effect. The
plan would allow residents who qualify to write off 10 percent
of real-estate levies against their state income taxes due in
April 2013.  The governor has chided “Corzine Democrats,” a reference
to former Governor  Jon Corzine , who he defeated in 2009.
Christie has said that in the eight years before he took office,
the state raised taxes and fees 115 times.  Rosen’s latest estimates give lawmakers more reason to
pause before approving a tax cut, said Assembly Budget Chairman
Vincent Prieto, a Democrat from Secaucus.  “This just absolutely gives proof to why a tax cut right
now couldn’t be done, and why we need to see if revenues are
going to come in as projected,” Prieto said in a telephone
interview.  Rosen’s earlier projection led Christie to call the analyst
the “Dr. Kevorkian of the numbers,” a reference to the late
physician who assisted suicides.  Roberts, the Christie spokesman, said that Rosen’s office
“jumps the gun with a hasty and speculative analysis that takes
a dour view of revenue figures in order to serve the agenda of
Corzine Democrats.” Fiscal 2012 revenue is 3 percent higher
than the previous year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  