-- Nassau Police Lifting Sunken Boat Where 3 Kids Drowned
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-07-10T17:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/nassau-police-lifting-sunken-boat-where-3-kids-drowned.html
Nassau County police and FBI divers
are lifting a boat today that was full of Fourth of July
fireworks spectators when it capsized and sank near  Oyster Bay ,
killing three children trapped in the cabin.  The 34-foot (10-meter) Silverton vessel with 27 people
aboard overturned at 10:10 p.m. July 4 off Bayville, between
Centre Island and Lloyd Neck, about 35 miles northeast of
 Manhattan . While 24 people were rescued, the bodies of David
Aureliano, 12, Harley Treanor, 11, and Victoria Gaines, 8, were
found in the cabin.  The boat is submerged about 60 feet, Carrie Shapiro, a
Nassau County police spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview.  “We’re bringing it up now,” Shapiro said. “We won’t know
much more until it’s out of the water.”  A  New York  City-area based FBI dive team is using balloons
they attach to the boat to help lift it, Kelly Langmesser, an
FBI spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview today.  “The team trains here and is on call to go into rivers,
the sea, or wherever they’re needed,” Langmesser said.  The investigation into what caused the boat to sink will be
left to the local police, she said.  Life Jackets  Investigators are trying to determine whether the incident
was caused by another boat’s wake, weather or overcrowding,
James Imperiale, a police spokesman, said last week. They are
also looking into how many life jackets were aboard the craft
and whether a mechanical failure contributed to the capsizing.  U.S. Coast Guard rules  require  vessels to carry one
personal flotation device for each passenger, while state law
calls for children under 12 to wear them at all times except
when in a boat’s cabin, Imperiale said  The Coast Guard doesn’t set maximum capacities for vessels
over 26 feet long, said Petty Officer Erik Swanson. Boaters
should use “common sense” or an overloaded boat can become
unsafe and difficult to handle, he said. Coast Guard crews often
conduct random safety checks, and overcrowded boats are one of
the things they try to spot, Swanson said.  Jim Mercante, a lawyer with  Rubin, Fiorella & Friedman  LLP
in New York and a retired merchant marine captain, has said he
doesn’t believe overcrowding was an issue because at least 10 of
the passengers were children. Mercante was hired by an insurer
to represent the boat’s owner, Kevin Treanor, the father of one
of the children who died.  Silverton Marine Corp., the Millville, New Jersey-based
boat manufacturer founded in 1969, is in a production shutdown
and has furloughed its staff, according to a notice posted on
its  website . The company filed for  Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection  on April 30.  “We are currently closed temporarily,” a voicemail
message at Silverton’s office said.  -- With assistance from Terrence Dopp in Trenton and Esme Deprez
in New York. Editors: Stacie Servetah, Stephen Merelman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  