-- Nations With Most Food May Lack Best Diets, Study Finds
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-07-10T14:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/nations-with-most-food-may-lack-best-diets-study-finds.html
An abundant  food supply  doesn’t
guarantee that a nation will have the healthiest or safest diet,
according to a study of global  food security .  The U.S., Denmark, Norway and France are the world’s most
“food-secure” countries in terms of availability, cost and
nutrition value while Israel, 22nd overall, had the best quality
and safety, according to the study released today by the
Economist Intelligence Unit. Germany, while 10th in food
security, ranked 21st in quality, measured by nutrient content
and balance. The  Democratic Republic  of Congo ranked last.  The findings are part of a global food-security index
developed to measure hunger worldwide and identify areas for
improvement.  World food prices   may rise  this month after a
drought in the U.S. Midwest wilted crops, the  United Nations 
forecast. Rapid  price gains  contributed to more than 60 food
riots around the globe from 2007 to 2009, while nutrition costs
that peaked in April 2011 sparked revolutions in North  Africa .  “To truly address the root cause of hunger, we must have a
common path forward to tackle such pressing issues as food
affordability, availability, nutritional quality and safety,”
said  Ellen Kullman , chief executive officer of  DuPont Co. (DD) , which
sponsored the study. “What gets measured, gets done,” she said
today in Washington where the report was released.  Bottom Rankings  The research examines food security in 105 nations on the
basis of affordability, availability, nutrition content and  food
safety . After Congo, the nations with the worst nutrition
situation were  Chad , followed by Burundi and Haiti. Some
countries in the bottom third, including Ethiopia and Niger, may
improve with rapid economic growth, according to the report.  Because food security is a politically sensitive issue,
“what’s important is that these indices be independent,
credible and transparent,” Leo Abruzzese, the director of the
Americas and global forecasting with the Economist Intelligence
Unit, based in London, said at the Washington event. “Every
country, even the countries that finished first, will have
strengths and weaknesses.”  Residents of wealthy nations have 55 percent more food
available than people in poorer countries, 3,400 calories a
person per day compared with 2,200, the study found. The United
Nations recommends daily intake of 2,300 calories. In the three
main areas of food security, the U.S. was first in
affordability, fourth in availability and third in quality and
safety.  Global food supplies were a topic of discussion at the
Group of Eight summit held in the U.S. in May. Before the
meeting, President  Barack Obama , in his first speech on global
food security, announced $3 billion in pledges from companies
including Cargill Inc. and  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  for farm development in
Africa, the world’s most food-insecure region, over the next
decade.  “Fifty years ago, Africa was an exporter of food,” Obama
said in May. “There is no reason why Africa should not be
feeding itself and exporting food again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  