-- National Aluminium Plans $2 Billion Power Foray: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-07-10T04:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/national-aluminium-plans-2-billion-power-foray-corporate-india.html
National Aluminium Co. (NACL) , India’s
largest state-run producer, plans to invest $2 billion to
generate and sell electricity after a slide in metal prices
shrank profit margins to the smallest in at least 12 years.  “All our calculations with aluminum have gone wrong,”
Chairman B.L. Bagra said in an interview in New Delhi. “We’re
now betting big on power, which gives us the comfort that some
of those projects have an assured return on equity.”  The company, which has 50 billion rupees ($895 million) of
cash, is seeking to  revive earnings  that fell in four of the
past five years as energy costs climbed and aluminum prices
slumped. Almost 20 percent of the metal produced in  China  and
about 30 percent in the rest of the world is unprofitable,
Goldman Sachs Group said in a July 3 report, as three-month
contracts on the  London Metal Exchange  dropped 25 percent in the
past year on slowing demand in Europe and China.  Nalco, as the aluminum maker is known, will form ventures
to build nuclear and thermal plants in the next five years,
taking advantage of the growing demand for power in the South
Asian country, Bagra said. The company currently operates a 960-
megawatt plant to run its 345,000 tons-a-year smelter in the
eastern state of Odisha.  “Nalco has a lot of cash and if they can invest that cash
in something that gives an assured return on equity, it
certainly is a good strategy,” Chirag Shah, an analyst at
Barclays Plc in Mumbai. “The problem is most of it is still on
paper and until there is something on the ground, it doesn’t
make much sense to investors.”  Shrinking Margin  Profit margin for the year ended March 31 shrank to 13.07
percent. Full-year net income declined 21 percent to 8.5 billion
rupees after energy costs gained 23 percent. The company made a
loss of 162 million rupees on sales of aluminum, according to a
statement to the  stock exchanges .  Nalco gained as much as 1.5 percent to 62.70 rupees and
traded at 62 rupees as of 9:23 a.m. in Mumbai. The shares have
 declined 25 percent  in the past year, the most in at least 13
years. Nineteen of 28  analysts tracking Nalco  recommend
investors sell the shares, while six recommend holding the stock.
Three analysts have a “buy” rating.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government aims to create
76 gigawatts of generation capacity in the next five years to
bridge an 8.6 percent peak-demand shortfall and revive economic
growth from the slowest pace in nine years. Gross domestic
product rose 5.3 percent in the quarter through March from a
year earlier, government  data  show.  Nuclear Power  Nalco will partner with  Nuclear Power Corp. of India Ltd. 
to build a 1,400-megawatt plant in the western state of Gujarat,
Bagra said, without giving a timeline. The maker of the
lightweight metal will also seek to join three other state-run
companies to bid for a 4,000 megawatt thermal power project.
Nalco will hold 49 percent of the Gujarat plant and about 25
percent in the project to be set up in either Odisha or
Chhattisgarh state, he said.  India  increased the  assured return on equity  on power
projects from 14 percent to 16 percent in 2009 to encourage
investments and meet a goal of providing electricity to all
households. The shortfall between demand and supply in April-
June fell from 8.9 percent a year earlier, according to the
power ministry’s Central Electricity Authority.  The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission, India’s
regulator for power, allows power producers to charge a tariff
based on the capital and fuel costs of projects set up without
competitive bidding.  Asset Sale  Nalco is also in talks with Nuclear Power Corp. for a
second plant, Bagra said, without giving details. Nalco aims to
invest 34 billion rupees through equity in the power plants,
while the debt will be raised by the separate units set up for
the projects.  “The good thing for Nalco will be to remain invested in
aluminum and simultaneously build a power portfolio to tap
demand,” said Ravindra Deshpande, a Mumbai-based analyst with
Elara Securities Ltd. While the current cost structure and
prices make the aluminum business unattractive, things will not
always remain so, said Deshpande, who has an “accumulate”
rating for the stock.  India’s government plans to sell 10 percent in Nalco to
raise $273 million, Thomas Mathew, joint secretary for  capital
markets  at the  finance ministry , said June 18, citing a ministry
document. Singh plans to  raise 300 billion rupees  selling assets
in the year ending March 31 to pay for subsidies and provide for
healthcare, jobs and  food security .  Nalco shut 10 percent of its aluminum smelting capacity in
October last year after coal supplies to its power plant from
Coal India Ltd. were disrupted. Electricity accounts for as much
as 40 percent of the cost of smelting aluminum.  Overseas Coal  A shortage of thermal coal in India has prompted Nalco to
seek the fuel in overseas markets, although with little success.
A $4 billion aluminum smelter venture with the Indonesian
government has yet to start construction after Nalco failed to
secure a supply accord with MEC Coal Pte for the project in east
Kalimantan province. The project, slated to start output in 2017,
will be delayed by at least a year, Bagra said.  An earlier quest to set up a smelter in  South Africa  also
failed because of lack of coal supplies, Nalco said in November
2009. The company is pursuing plans to build a smelter in  Iran 
should it succeed in tying up bank loans for the project, Bagra
said, without elaborating.  Nalco, which also plans to foray into mining for gold and
copper, is part of a four-member group of Indian state-run
companies bidding for deposits in  Afghanistan .  “Just as we are an aluminum producer, we are also a miner
and a power producer,” Bagra said. “We’re going to make good
of our experience in these two areas and diversify.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  