-- Navistar Seeks Most of $73 Billion China School Bus Sales
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-07-11T11:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/navistar-seeks-most-of-73-billion-china-school-bus-sales.html
John McKinney sat outside a Beijing
Starbucks, sipped his coffee and scanned the traffic. He was
looking for school buses, or what passes for them in the world’s
most-populous nation.  A dozen school-bound vehicles rolled by on their morning
runs. Some were minivans, while others were shuttle buses or
former coaches painted yellow. None was the tried-and-true
design used in the U.S. since the 1930s. McKinney, head of
 Navistar International Corp. (NAV) ’s bus business, picked up his
iPhone and snapped away. His bosses took note.  “You look at the China market and they have school buses
and they’re cheap,” Dan Ustian, Navistar’s chief executive
officer, said in an interview. “Too cheap. They have scrimped
on quality and safety standards, so this is our opportunity.”  China may spend $72.7 billion (463 billion  yuan ) to upgrade
school buses and increase their number over the next decade,
said Navistar and Blue Bird Corp., another manufacturer.
Navistar, which has about half the U.S. market, sees China
buying 50,000 a year by 2015, With partner  Anhui Jianghuai
Automobile Co. (600418) , Ustian said he wants to get most of that.  Late last year, a series of deadly accidents highlighted
the danger. Overcrowded minivans, SUVs and city buses,
conscripted into school service, rolled down embankments or were
hit by trucks at intersections. At least 40 died.  New Standards  The outcry forced  China  to create standards for how school
buses are built, modeled after U.S. standards and developed with
help from Navistar. The company signed a joint venture letter of
intent in April. Navistar isn’t alone. Blue Bird, based in Fort
Valley,  Georgia , and owned by Cerberus Capital Management LP, is
also looking to gain business in China.  Navistar, based in Lisle,  Illinois , is struggling in its
home market, where it has failed to produce a 13-liter heavy
engine for its trucks that meets 2010 U.S. emission standards.
The company said July 6 it’s adding “urea-based after-
treatment” to the engines, at additional cost, to comply with
the rules. Those engines aren’t used in school buses.  Last month, the company lowered its full-year profit
forecast to a range of break-even to $2 a share, excluding some
costs. Navistar in February forecast 2012 profit of as much as
$5.75 a share, lowering it to a maximum of $5.25 a share in
March. Navistar shares are down 42 percent this year through
yesterday after a 35 percent slide in 2011.  Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  last month reported that he
boosted his stake in Navistar to 11.9 percent. Hedge-fund
manager  Mark Rachesky  took a  13.6 percent  stake, increased it to
14.95 percent and is the company’s second-largest shareholder.
He said in a June 25 filing he planned to talk to management
about the “business, operations, strategy and future plans.”  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  reported in a filing yesterday it
expanded its stake to 18.8 percent, to make it the largest
Navistar shareholder.  Bus Fatalities  The impetus for revamping Chinese school buses occurred in
late 2011. Last November, 19 children were killed and 43 were
injured when 64 people riding in a nine-seat van doing duty as a
school bus hit a coal truck in  Gansu province .  In December, a school bus driver swerved to avoid two
electric bikes in Xuzhou, in Jiangsu province. The bus
overturned into a river, killing 12 students and injuring 11,
 China Daily  said at the time. The death toll later rose to 15.
At least seven students died after an overloaded minivan fell
into a valley in Yunnan province in southwest China in late
December.  The first set of new standards to make school buses safer
were released for review in April and took effect May 1.  Safety Emphasis  New buses will be required to have a “sealed” safety cage
with the engine extending in front of the windshield, floors
elevated above the crash zone and strict capacity requirements
to ensure vehicles aren’t overloaded, Phil Horlock, CEO of
Cerberus’s Blue Bird, said in an interview. Bus makers have 13
months to comply with the new standard, he said.  Buses also will be given priority in traffic and drivers
will need to be licensed, according to China Daily, the state-
owned newspaper.  Ustian and McKinney said they worked with government
officials to develop the safety standards.  Blue Bird is in talks with a Chinese firm about a joint
venture to make its buses in China, said Horlock, a former  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  executive.  China is strengthening its regulations faster than the
companies there can develop their own, said Sanjeev Varma, a
Michigan-based automotive adviser at Duff & Phelps LLC.  ‘Western Standards’  “The Chinese want to get to Western standards sooner
rather than later,” Varma said. “They’re trying to access
technology at a much faster rate, either by hiring Western
consultants and advisers or by forming joint ventures.”  China has about 285,000 school buses, 10 percent of which
meet the new standards, according to China’s state-run Xinhua
News Agency. Navistar and Blue Bird see the fleet multiplying in
the coming decade as China buys 1.5 million to 2 million school
buses.  McKinney shared the pictures he took in February outside
the Starbucks with co-workers back at Navistar headquarters to
show the differences with Chinese buses compared with the U.S.  “They’ve adopted what they see superficially -- their
buses are yellow, it has a stop sign, it’s got lights that
flash, those kinds of things,” he said. “But from a structural
integrity standpoint, it’s much more than the color, although
that’s a part. It’s much more than the flashing light.”  44 Standards  The diversity of school buses in China is reminiscent of
those on U.S. roads in 1939, when the first set of national
safety standards for school buses were developed at a conference
at Teachers College at  New York ’s  Columbia University .  From that seven-day meeting came 44 standards that
determined school-bus length, ceiling height, aisle width and
paint color, a now-iconic blend of orange and yellow known as
school bus yellow. The standards have evolved and expanded
since.  In the U.S., where about 475,000 school buses ferry 23.5
million kids to and from school each day, it’s the safest form
of vehicular transportation, according to the  National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration . Each year, about seven kids are
killed in school bus crashes, or 0.2 deaths for every 100
million vehicle miles, compared with 1.5 deaths for cars,
according to NHTSA.  ‘Pretty Aggressive’  U.S. manufacturers sold about 30,000 units in  North America 
last year. Buses in the U.S. sell for about $80,000 and in China
may fetch $50,000 to $60,000, Horlock said.  “Based on the reception we’ve had, there’s strong interest
in getting an American school bus out there in the market,” he
said. “They’ve set some pretty aggressive standards and
compliance is going to require quite a bit of engineering
work.”  Navistar and Anhui Jianghuai expect to start limited school
bus production later this year, McKinney said.  To make their case in China, McKinney and other Navistar
executives have been showing Chinese officials footage taken
from a Florida traffic-monitoring camera of a tractor-trailer
hitting one of its school buses filled with kids at 40 miles (64
kilometers) per hour. The front of the truck was crushed. The
only damage to the bus was on the fascia. The kids walked away
unharmed.  “It shows this is more than just paint color,” he said.
“It takes the conversation to a whole other realm.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  