-- NBC’s Live Web Olympics Coverage Seen Drawing Pay Viewers
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-07-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/nbc-s-live-web-olympics-coverage-seen-drawing-pay-viewers-tech.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  NBC Universal  is
providing live online coverage of every Olympics event for the
first time this year. The catch is you have to be a pay-TV
subscriber to watch with your tablet, PC or mobile phone.  The network plans to produce 3,500 hours of online
coverage, including all 32 sports and 302 medal events from
NBCOlympics.com. A company  website  will help viewers get a
username and password from their cable or satellite service.  By extending the viewer relationship to the Internet with
live coverage, NBC is embracing a vision of pay TV that extends
beyond the living room. That’s especially important as younger
consumers, some who’ve never paid for cable, flock to  Netflix
Inc. (NFLX) , Hulu LLC and other Web services. Streaming events live
also lets NBC satisfy fans who might be annoyed by tape delays
or loud-mouthed spoilers in the next cubicle.  “In theory, you’d test authentication in a smaller way
first, and then go for the big gorilla, but this is the event
where we have an opportunity to make a splash,” Mark Lazarus,
NBC Sports Group chairman, said in an interview. “This is more
than a test. This is a business imperative as we roll into the
future.”  NBC Universal, which became part of Comcast in January
2011, plans to stream events starting July 25, two days before
the opening ceremony. The 3,500 hours of online coverage
compares with 2,200 hours from Beijing four years ago.  Streaming Options  Subscribers at 104 U.S. pay-TV systems will have online
access, according to the NBC website, potentially making the
service available in more than 100 million U.S. homes, including
some that don’t get the company’s new NBC Sports Network. Some
subscribers may need to call their service provider to obtain a
username and password. Pay-TV operators may also limit the
number of devices to prevent account sharing.  Streaming will be available at NBCOlympics.com, as well as
a version of the website optimized for mobile devices, according
to NBC. Service will also be available through an application,
called Live Extra, for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and iPhone, as well as
mobile phones and tablets running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system software.  During live events that aren’t simultaneously broadcast on
one of NBC Universal’s TV networks, viewers at times will only
hear the sound in the arena or Olympics-provided announcers, NBC
said. The advertising load will also be different online.  Clips of events will be posted after they conclude and
won’t require a pay-TV account, Lazarus said.  “We’ll have more digital eyeballs and advertising revenue
this Olympics than many companies have in a year,” he said.  Younger Viewers  With Olympic events available to so many viewers, NBC
Universal’s strategy may help Comcast, the biggest U.S. cable
system, and other cable, telecom and satellite operators sign up
a generation of 18-to-20-year-olds who have never subscribed to
pay-television, according to  Laura Martin , a Pasadena,
California-based analyst at Needham & Co.  “When people learn they can watch Usain Bolt or Michael Phelps in real time on their smartphones and tablets, as long as
they enter a code, you have the opportunity to change how people
think about television,” Martin said in an interview.  When the Olympics officially open July 27, the games will
become the most widely available authenticated online
programming ever offered, exceeding the TV Everywhere services
by  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  HBO ,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN and  CBS
Corp. (CBS) ’s Showtime, according to Martin’s estimates.  NBC will lose $100 million to $200 million on the London
Olympics, according to  David Joyce , an analyst at Miller Tabak &
Co. in  New York . The media company says it paid $1.18 billion
for the rights.  Revenue Outlook  The London Olympics telecast, carried on the NBC broadcast
network, as well as on the NBC Sports Network, Bravo, CNBC,
 MSNBC  and Telemundo, will collect at least $950 million in
revenue, Seth Winter, a senior vice president for NBC Sports,
said at a June 27 media briefing. That’s about $100 million more
than the  Beijing Games  four years ago.  Comcast, based in Philadelphia, fell 0.3 percent to $31.72
yesterday in New York. The shares have climbed 32 percent this
year.  To make it easier for viewers to locate a username and
password, and log on for the first time, NBC created a video
with “The Voice” host Carson Daly to explain the process. The
company is encouraging viewers to authenticate early to avoid a
logjam that could potentially hobble the system. It’s also
providing a temporary log-in that provides four hours of access
to anyone.  During the 2010 Winter Olympics in  Vancouver , NBC dropped
the authentication requirement and provided unrestricted access
when viewers had trouble logging in with their pay-TV accounts.  Fast, Simple  This time, the process is simpler and faster, said Michael
Bishara, vice president and general manager for TV Everywhere at
Buffalo, New York-based  Synacor Inc. (SYNC) , which is overseeing the
login process for about 40 pay-TV systems with 25 million
customers.  “The education effort behind this is very smart and very
well thought out,” Bishara said in an interview.  Streaming will probably be highest during the day, while
people are at work, Bishara said, citing other events including
the “March Madness” U.S. college basketball championship.
Online viewing will probably spike during opening and closing
ceremonies, swimming competition featuring  Michael Phelps  and
gymnastics, he said.  Comcast isn’t charging pay-TV operators or subscribers any
additional fee for online access, Lazarus said. Limiting the
additional service to people who already have pay-TV underscores
the value of the programming, he said.  “Providers pay us for our networks,” Lazarus said. “If
someone is going to pay you for something, you don’t give it
away to someone else for less or for free. If you’re paying a
premium for cable, your neighbor that isn’t paying for cable
shouldn’t get the same value.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  