-- Nedbank May Raise 4 Billion Rand With ‘Green’ Retail Bond
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-07-10T13:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/nedbank-to-issue-savings-bond-to-finance-solar-wind-plants.html
Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  may raise 4
billion rand ($488 million) or more with a first-of-its-kind
retail bond to help finance more than a third of the wind and
solar plants planned in South Africa.  The proceeds of the so-called green savings bond, which
will pay a rate of as much as 7.5 percent, will be dedicated to
renewable-energy funding, Anton de Wet, managing executive of
client engagement at South Africa’s fourth-largest lender, said
in a speech today in Johannesburg, where the bank is based.  The nation is expanding power generation after Eskom
Holdings SOC Ltd., the utility that provides 95 percent of its
electricity, mainly by burning coal, suffered shortages in 2008
that temporarily idled mines. Nedbank, which is offering private
individuals access to notes at prices typically offered to large
funds, is funding 37 percent of the first phase of the nation’s
renewable-energy program and expects to raise this to 39 percent
in the second. The total value of the program may be 120 billion
rand.  “Our pricing is essentially what we almost pay an
institutional investor, so retail clients have access to
institutional rates through this type of instrument,” Paul Bowes, head of group funding and strategic liquidity management,
said in an interview. The notes will pay interest from 5.87
percent to 7.5 percent monthly or semi-annually, depending on
the period invested and investors’ age, he said.  “Particularly in this low interest-rate environment, one
is certainly looking for yield,” he said.  South Africa ’s  benchmark lending rate  is 5.5 percent, a 30-
year low. Yields on South Africa’s rand-denominated bonds due
2021 have dropped 87 basis points this year to 7.10 percent as
of 2:39 p.m. in Johannesburg. The yield touched a record low of
7.095 percent on July 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  