-- New York Fed Says It Knew of Barclays Libor ‘Problems’
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-07-10T14:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/new-york-fed-says-it-knew-of-barclays-libor-problems-.html
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York
was aware of potential issues involving  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and the
London interbank offered rate after the financial crisis began
in 2007, according to a statement from the district bank.  “In the context of our market monitoring following the
onset of the financial crisis in late 2007, involving thousands
of calls and e-mails with market participants over a period of
many months, we received occasional anecdotal reports from
Barclays of problems with Libor,” New York Fed spokeswoman
Andrea Priest said in an e-mailed statement.  “In the spring of 2008, following the failure of Bear
Stearns and shortly before the first media report on the
subject, we made further inquiry of Barclays as to how Libor
submissions were being conducted,” the statement said. “We
subsequently shared our analysis and suggestions for reform of
Libor with the relevant authorities in the U.K.”  Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican who
serves on the House Financial Services committee, sent a letter
to New York Fed President William C. Dudley dated yesterday
requesting transcripts of communications between the district
bank and Barclays relating to setting interbank offered rates
from August 2007 to November 2009. Neugebauer asked for the
documents by July 13.  Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  quit last
week after the U.K.’s second-biggest lender was fined a record
290 million pounds ($450 million) for attempting to rig interest
rates.  The Senate Banking Committee has begun to schedule
briefings “with relevant parties to learn more about these
allegations and related enforcement actions,” Senator  Tim Johnson , a South Dakota Democrat who chairs the Senate Banking
Committee, said in a statement.  Johnson also said that he is asking Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  and Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to “be
prepared to answer Senators’ questions on this matter” at
upcoming hearings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  