-- Nikon Plunges as Intel Agrees to Buy ASML Stake: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-07-10T06:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/nikon-plunges-as-intel-agrees-to-buy-asml-stake-tokyo-mover.html
Nikon Corp. (7731) , Japan’s largest
chipmaking lithograph maker, plunged the most in more than a
year in Tokyo after  Intel Corp. (INTC) , its second-biggest customer,
agreed to invest as much as $4.1 billion in  ASML Holding NV. (ASML)   Nikon  fell  7 percent, the biggest drop since March 2011, to
close at 2,336 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The Tokyo-based
company competes with ASML in the chip-lithography market.  Intel, the world’s largest semiconductor maker, will take
an initial 10 percent stake in ASML for about $2.1 billion and
later take an additional 5 percent for about $1 billion, pending
shareholder approval, the Santa Clara, California-based company
said yesterday in a statement. ASML, based in Veldhoven,
Netherlands, will get about $1 billion more from the chipmaker
in stages to speed delivery of equipment needed for larger
silicon wafer-based production.  “We interpret the move as Intel throwing in the towel on
Nikon,”  Pierre Ferragu , a London-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein Ltd., said in a note. Intel needs to control costs as
competition is intensifying, he said.  ASML and Nikon chip-lithography machines can take years to
prepare and deliver. Intel and its competitors need to retool
manufacturing as they transition to 450-millimeter disks of
silicon from the current 300-millimeter standard, a move
designed to increase output and reduce costs.  Intel accounts for about 4.4 percent of Nikon’s annual
revenue, the largest portion after Samsung Electronics Co.,
which comprises about 6.4 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Nikon is also the world’s second-biggest maker of
professional-grade cameras.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  