-- Noyer Warns Hollande of France’s ‘Serious’ Economic Weakness
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-07-10T12:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/noyer-warns-hollande-of-france-s-serious-economic-weakness.html
Bank of  France  Governor  Christian Noyer  told President  Francois Hollande  that he should act to
address France’s “serious” economic weakness by shaking up the
labor market and restraining wage costs.  “France has allowed serious weaknesses to develop over the
past few decades, which account for the slow deterioration in
its economic position in  Europe  and the world,” Noyer said in
an annual letter to the French president. “Having paid
insufficient attention to developments in its competitiveness,
France has let its capacity to produce and export slowly slide,
resulting in rising unemployment.”  Noyer’s remarks are aimed at spurring talks between unions
and businesses today in Paris that are intended to shape
economic policy over the next five years. Corporate leaders
including former European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. Chief
Executive Officer  Louis Gallois  have called on Hollande to
create a competitiveness “shock” by slashing labor costs.  With growth stalling, joblessness at a  12-year high  and
neighboring Italy and  Spain  already in recession, Hollande’s
challenge is to convince unions to accept curbs both to wage
costs and labor rules that will make it easier for businesses to
compete with their counterparts abroad.  France has the euro area’s second-highest unit cost of
labor after  Belgium , according to an April Eurostat report. The
French figure of 34.20 euros ($42) an hour compares with
Germany’s 30.10 euros, Italy’s 26.80 euros and 20.60 euros for
Spain.  35-Hour Week  Unit labor costs in France have increased by about 20
percent relative to  Germany  since 2000 as French companies
implemented the nation’s 35-hour work-week law imposed by
Socialist Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, according to economic
think-tank Coe-Rexecode, a Paris-based research firm.  “Of all advanced countries, France has registered, since
2000, the sharpest decline in its market share in global
exports,” Noyer said today. “The deterioration can partly be
ascribed to the unfavorable developments in the cost of labor in
France compared to our main competitor on world markets,
Germany,” he said.  Yet wage costs alone aren’t France’s only handicap,
executives and economists say. Companies say one of the biggest
obstacles to hiring is the “Code du Travail,” a 3,200-page
labor rulebook that decrees everything from job classifications
to leave for training to the ability to fire.  “The cost factor does not explain everything,” Noyer
said. “The drop in the number of hours worked and rigidities in
working time arrangements have probably played a role” and
reviving exports means tackling all sorts of restrictions that
hamper activity, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  