-- Obama Ex-Aides Defend Bailout Cash for Delphi Pensions
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-07-10T16:44:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/obama-ex-aides-defend-bailout-cash-for-delphi-pensions.html
U.S. taxpayers and auto workers
would have fared worse if President  Barack Obama ’s auto bailout
hadn’t improved pensions of some  Delphi (DLPH)  Automotive Plc union
retirees while cutting those of salaried workers, former members
of the bailout  task force  said.  As part of U.S. assistance to  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Chrysler Group LLC in 2009, $1 billion of U.S. Treasury money
was spent on a so-called top-off of pensions for hourly
employees at auto-parts supplier Delphi, which GM spun off in
1999. Salaried Delphi retirees had their pensions cut as part of
the agreement.  “I remain convinced today that it was the best course of
action available at that time,” Matthew Feldman, a bankruptcy
attorney who was on the task force, said at a U.S. House
subcommittee hearing today. “I recognize that the restructuring
process imposed painful but necessary actions on many of Delphi
stakeholders.”  Feldman and fellow task force members  Ron Bloom  and  Harry Wilson  were called before a House Oversight and Government
Reform hearing today after declining to be interviewed by the
inspector general of the Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief
Program for an audit of the Delphi pension decision.  The three agreed today to answer questions from Inspector
General  Christy Romero , who told the panel her probe’s work has
been “significantly protracted” by the trio’s lack of
cooperation.  Retirement Benefits  Today’s hearing was the panel’s third on Delphi’s pension
and GM’s involvement in it.  The Government Accountability Office said in a report last
year that three unions including the  United Auto Workers  secured
agreements with GM, when it spun off Delphi, to provide
supplemental retirement benefits to their members if their
pension plans were frozen or terminated. Salaried workers and
members of other unions didn’t have such agreements, the GAO
said.  GM was honoring its contracts when it topped off the UAW
pensions, Bloom said today.  “In a bankruptcy, all constituents try to use whatever
leverage they have to get the best arrangements,” he said.  Delphi, based in Troy, Michigan, held an initial public
offering in November after restructuring in  bankruptcy court .
Delphi, once the largest U.S. auto-parts supplier, exited
bankruptcy in October 2009.  Lawmakers including Representative Frank Guinta, a New
Jersey Republican, said members of Delphi unions including the
UAW were treated better than other employees.  “I think it’s very clear that there was special
preferential treatment given to one group over another,” Guinta
said.  The task force members denied that union members at Delphi,
which makes parts including fuel-injection systems, received a
sweetheart deal.  “We negotiated the best possible deal we could with each
of the constituencies,” said Wilson, a Republican.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  