-- Lockheed Martin Says Dutch Vote Against F-35 Hasn’t Killed Order
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-07-10T09:34:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/lockheed-martin-says-dutch-vote-against-f-35-hasn-t-killed-order.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  said it still
regards the Netherlands as a likely customer for its F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter after a majority of legislators there voted to
exit a program in which the country is an industrial partner.  Dutch parliamentarians voted 77 to 71 on July 5 to halt the
purchase of the JSF, and the government is now assessing the
cost and industrial implications of withdrawal. Results will be
presented after a general election due to be held on Sept. 12.  “There are no binding resolutions,” Tom Burbage, Lockheed
Martin’s executive vice president for the F-35 program, said
yesterday in  London , adding that the Bethesda, Maryland-based
company is “confident” the Dutch will buy.  The Netherlands has been looking at acquiring more than 80
F-35s, with the final number in flux as the government reviews
spending. The country has already bought two test aircraft, with
the first due for delivery in September, and has received more
than $900 million in contracts from the program to build about
3,100 planes worldwide, according to Lockheed Martin.  “We expect the amount of these contracts to continue to
increase as the program progresses,” Burbage said at a Lockheed
Martin briefing tied to the Farnborough air show, adding that
Dutch industry has critical responsibilities on the F-35
including the sole supply of electrical wiring.  The U.S.-led F-35 Joint Program Office said in a statement
that it will continue to support the Netherlands by providing
fact-based information about the project.  A Dutch withdrawal would be a setback for  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ,
with the Rome-based company’s Alenia Aermacchi unit building an
F-35 final-assembly facility where Italian and Dutch fighters
would be built. The defense contractor is in talks with other
countries to assemble their F-35s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  