-- Lockheed’s You-May-Be-Fired Notices Called Scare Tactic
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-07-10T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/lockheed-s-you-may-be-fired-notices-called-scare-tactic.html
It’s enough to make a member of
Congress take notice: the prospect that hundreds of thousands of
U.S. defense workers will receive you-may-be-fired warnings in
the mail shortly before the Nov. 6 election.  Companies led by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s largest
defense contractor, say federal and state laws may require them
to send out blanket notifications of potential job cuts before
the election unless President  Barack Obama  and Congress act by
October to avert automatic defense reductions of $500 billion
over a decade that would start on Jan. 2.  To employment-law attorney Margaret Keane, giving mass
dismissal warnings in such uncertain conditions looks more like
a lobbying tactic by corporations trying to ward off the cuts
than an effort to follow the letter of the Worker Adjustment and
Retraining Notification Act.  “I just don’t think you need to do that,” said Keane, a
partner with Littler Mendelson PC who advises employers on
meeting the notification law’s requirements. “Are we really
talking about complying with the WARN Act, or are we talking
about political pressure being applied?”  If the budget cuts known as sequestration take effect,
defense contractors wouldn’t see changes in revenue abrupt
enough to require broad distribution of pink-slip warnings in
advance, said  Byron Callan , a defense analyst with Capital Alpha
Partners in  Washington .  “That’s more a scare tactic than something that aligns
with the underlying reality of how sequestration works,” Callan
said.  ‘Mass Layoffs’  The federal WARN Act, which became law in 1988, requires
most employers with 100 or more workers to give 60 days’ notice
of plant closings or “mass layoffs” -- labor cutbacks
affecting 500 or more workers, or at least 33 percent of the
workforce for companies with fewer than 500 employees.  Some employers also must comply with labor contracts that
may require more notice, and some states including  New York  have
their own laws requiring 90 days’ notice, said Keane, who is
based in  San Francisco  and has represented companies such as
 Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and Accretive LLC on WARN Act compliance.  If notices are required, they would have to go out days
before the election because of the 60-day notice required by
federal law and in early October if a company operates in states
requiring 90 days’ warning.  Lockheed’s Stevens  Industry trade groups have predicted the automatic cuts may
cost 1 million U.S. jobs, and Robert Stevens, chairman and chief
executive officer of Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed, has led
the way in promoting the prospect of mass WARN Act notices.  “It is quite possible that we will need to notify
employees in the September and October time frame that they may
or may not have a job in January depending upon whether
sequestration does or does not take effect,” Stevens said at an
investor’s conference in New York on May 31. “Because the level
of planning detail really isn’t available, we may have to notify
every one of our employees, and all of our suppliers and
subcontractors that they may or may not have a subcontract.”  Jennifer Allen, a Lockheed spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
that the company, which has facilities in 46 states, has “no
way of knowing where specific cuts will be applied at this
time.” The company had about 117,000 U.S. employees as of
March, according to a filing with securities regulators.  Asked about critics who question whether WARN Act
notifications are legally required, Allen cited the remarks by
Stevens.  ‘Freight Train’  The notices may be necessary because corporations are
expected by investors, workers and suppliers to plan ahead in
case Congress can’t agree to avert the cuts, said Marion Blakey,
president and CEO of the Aerospace Industries Association.
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , General Dynamics Corp. and Lockheed are
among members of the trade group based in Arlington, Virginia.  “It’s coming at us like a freight train,” Blakey said in
an interview. “We’re not talking about theoreticals. We’re
talking about laws that are on the books.”  The defense cuts are part of $1.2 trillion in automatic,
across-the-board reductions to domestic and national-security
programs. The cuts were imposed after talks failed last year on
a bipartisan plan to curb the  U.S. debt . Some lawmakers in both
parties want to seek a debt-reduction deal paring back defense
cuts after the election in a so-called lame-duck session of
Congress.  The prospect of budget cuts hasn’t deterred investors.
Bloomberg Government’s Aero-Defense Primes Index of the biggest
U.S. contractors has risen 12 percent this year, exceeding a
7.5 percent increase in the broader Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Virginia’s Dependence  Virginia is the state most dependent on federal defense
spending through its contractors and military bases, collecting
$56.9 billion in 2009, according to a Bloomberg Government
study. It was followed by California and  Texas .  Blakey’s group says 1 million U.S. jobs would be lost
because of the defense sequester, along with $480 billion in
reductions already being put in place over a decade. The
estimates are based on a study it helped to fund by  Stephen Fuller , director of the Center for Regional Analysis at  George
Mason University  in Fairfax, Virginia.  The study projected 164,150 jobs would be eliminated in
companies that make aircraft, ships, guns and other weapons, and
188,600 would be lost from suppliers.  Ripple Effects  The estimate that an additional 653,570 non-defense jobs
“would be lost through ripple effects is unreasonably high,”
according to Kevin Brancato, an analyst for Bloomberg Government
who previously analyzed the cost of weapons systems for the RAND
Corp. Companies that issued blanket WARN Act letters would
“risk looking weak and look as if their contracts are really
targets” for cuts, he said.  Defense-industry lobbyists raising the prospect of pink-
slip notices have a partner in the International Association of
 Machinists and Aerospace Workers , the industry’s biggest labor
union.  Bruce Olsson, the union’s assistant director of legislative
and political action, said at a conference in Washington on June
27 that when he lobbies lawmakers on the defense sequester, many
say they think it’s an issue for after the election.  ‘Your Election’  Olsson said he tells them about the WARN Act notices and
adds, “It’s about your election.”  Echoing that message, Senator  Kelly Ayotte , a New Hampshire
Republican who serves on the Senate Armed Services Committee,
said at a Washington conference on June 26, “There are
potentially hundreds of thousands of WARN Act notices that could
be issued before the November election.”  Some lawmakers, particularly Democrats, bristle at the idea
of workers receiving letters shortly before an election that
will determine which party controls the White House and both
chambers of Congress.  “To send notices right before the elections is very
suspicious to me,” Representative  James Clyburn  of South
Carolina, the No. 3 Democratic leader in the House, said in an
interview.  The U.S. Labor Department says in a list of frequently
asked questions about the WARN Act on its website that “it is
not appropriate for an employer to provide a blanket notice to
all of its employees.”  Such notices sometimes come up in bankruptcy proceedings.
Hostess Brands Inc., the baker of Wonder Bread and Twinkies that
is in bankruptcy reorganization, sent all 18,000 of its workers
WARN Act notifications in May. The letters were “sent to alert
employees that a sale or wind down of the company is possible in
the future,” Hostess spokesman Lance Ignon said in an e-mailed
statement.  ‘Political Brinkmanship’  Rather than sending warnings to all workers, defense
“companies would have to estimate which facilities would be
affected and which would be likely to be affected,” Charles Craver, a professor of law at George Washington University in
Washington, said in an interview.  Whether defense contractors will need to send WARN Act
notices is “certainly not a decision that needs to be made
now,” said James Brudney, a professor of law at  Fordham
University  in  New York City . “It looks more like political
brinkmanship.”  The willingness of defense companies to consider job-cut
notices months before they might be sent is telling in light of
company resistance to the WARN Act before its passage, said
Brudney, who advised lawmakers writing the legislation when he
was Democratic staff director of the Senate subcommittee on
labor.  Back then, companies said advance talk of firings would sap
employee morale, create the risk that workers would sabotage
manufacturing facilities and hurt the ability of companies to
raise capital, Brudney said in an interview.  General Dynamics  Some defense contractors aren’t ready to join Lockheed and
their trade group in brandishing the prospect of WARN act
notices, saying they are determining the possible effects.  “We’re right now assessing the requirements that apply at
each of our locations to understand where we would have to issue
notices if we determine that notices will be required,”   Rob Doolittle , a spokesman for  Falls Church , Virginia-based  General
Dynamics (GD) , said in an interview. “But we haven’t made any
determinations yet about issuing any notices to our employees.”  Randy Belote , a spokesman for Falls Church, Virginia-based
Northrop Grumman, would say only that the across-the-board cuts
would have a “serious, negative” impact on the company, which
has “contingency plans” if they occur.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  