-- Oil Falls as Norway Ends Strike, U.S. Equities Decline
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-07-10T21:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/oil-declines-as-norway-ends-energy-strike-chinese-import.html
Oil fell after Norway ended a strike
that threatened to halt output by western Europe’s largest crude
exporter and as U.S. equities decreased for a fourth day.  Futures dropped 2.4 percent in New York after Norway’s
government ordered compulsory arbitration in the dispute,
preventing a platform workers’ lockout scheduled to start at
midnight yesterday. The drop in crude prices accelerated as the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  slipped on pessimism about earnings
season and the euro fell to a two-year low against the dollar.  “The end of the Norwegian oil worker strike was the
biggest factor behind today’s drop,” said  Tim Evans , an energy
analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York. “The S&P moved
lower this afternoon, which added strength to the downward move.
It adds to concern about the economy slowing.”  Crude oil for August delivery declined $2.08 to settle at
$83.91 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices have
decreased 15 percent this year.  Declines eased after the  American Petroleum Institute 
reported oil inventories fell 695,000 barrels to 381.9 million
in the week ended July 6. The August contract was down $1.92, or
2.2 percent, at $84.07 a barrel at 4:34 p.m.  Brent oil for August settlement fell $2.35, or 2.3 percent,
to end the session at $97.97 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. Brent’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate crude, the grade traded in New York, dropped to
$14.06 a barrel from $14.33 yesterday.  Norwegian Arbitration  Norway announced the arbitration in a statement on the
Oslo-based Labor Ministry’s website. The strike, which started
June 24, disrupted about 15 percent of the nation’s oil output,
the Oil Industry Association said June 27. The nation pumps
about 1.8 percent of global consumption, data from the Norwegian
Petroleum Directorate show.  Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s largest energy company, said it will
resume full production within a week.  “We rose yesterday on the strike and are coming off today
on its resolution,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic
Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “Now
attention will shift to the demand outlook.”  The  S&P 500  decreased 0.8 percent, and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  dropped 0.7 percent.  The euro weakened 0.5 percent to $1.2252 at 4:34 p.m. in
New York. It touched $1.2235, the lowest level since July 2010.
A weaker euro and stronger dollar reduce oil’s appeal as an
investment alternative.  The common currency reached its lows after Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  said he won’t serve in another government
when his term ends next year.  Debt Crisis  “The Monti announcement is having an impact on most
markets,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at
Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees
$1.4 billion. “The Italian political system is dysfunctional
and this makes him a lame duck. This increases the odds that the
euro-zone debt crisis will worsen.”  Oil prices  have moved for more than two years on
developments in the euro region’s debt crisis and their
projected impact on energy demand. The crisis that began in
Greece has spread to Ireland,  Portugal , Italy and Spain.  The U.S. Energy Department  reduced its  New York  crude-oil
price and demand projections for 2012 and 2013. Global oil
demand next year will average 89.37 million barrels a day next
year, down 500,000 barrels from June’s projection.  “The DOE cut its demand forecast for 2013 by more than I
would have expected,” Evans said. “They are now projecting a
low-growth scenario for both years.”  Chinese Imports  China ’s net crude arrivals fell to the lowest level this
year. The General Administration of Customs said net imports
fell to 5.28 million barrels a day in June. That’s the least
since December and compares with a record high 5.98 million in
May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China is the
world’s second-biggest oil-consuming country after the U.S.  The customs bureau also reported that China’s total imports
of goods increased 6.3 percent in June from a year earlier,
below the 11 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.
Export growth was 11 percent, down from 15 percent in May.  “The news from China is both good and bad,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price Futures Group in
 Chicago . “The weak import data may increase the likelihood of
increased stimulus, which would boost demand.”  Oil in New York has technical support along the middle
Bollinger band on the daily chart, around $83.66 a barrel today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures yesterday
rebounded after trading near that indicator. Buy orders tend to
be clustered close to chart-support levels.  Inventory Projection  U.S. oil supplies probably declined for a third week as
refineries processed more crude to meet peak summer demand and
as imports declined, a Bloomberg survey shows. Stockpiles fell
1.38 million barrels, according to the median of 10 analyst
estimates before an Energy Department report tomorrow.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 439,111
contracts as of 4:32 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 474,076
contracts yesterday, 16 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.42 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  