-- Hollande Tells French Londoners No Going Back on Taxing Rich
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-07-10T15:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/hollande-tells-french-londoners-no-going-back-on-taxing-rich-1-.html
President  Francois Hollande  told
French citizens in  London , many of whom work in the City’s
financial industry, that he won’t go back on higher taxes for
the rich, saying the measure is patriotic.  “This is not a punishment,” Hollande said in a speech at
the French ambassador’s residence today. “It’s not to point at
those who’ve succeeded by their talent and their work to
accumulate wealth. But at the moment we’re seeking everyone’s
help to cut the debt, deficit and improve our competitiveness,”
he said, calling it “a certain form of patriotism.”  In his first visit to London since he was elected on May 6,
Hollande played down questions about U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s open invitation last month to French tax exiles.
Cameron said he would “roll out the red carpet” for those
seeking to quit  France  to escape a planned 75 percent levy on
income of more than 1 million euros ($1.27 million) and a boost
in taxes on big companies to 35 percent from 33 percent.  France’s Socialist government unveiled on July 4 a revised
budget law for this year, earmarking 7.2 billion euros ($9
billion) of tax increases to meet deficit-reduction goals and
avoid bond-market punishment. The largest new levy will be a
one-time surcharge on wealthy individuals’ assets to raise 2.3
billion euros. The government said it may be study options for
taxes on fiscal exiles.  Tax Focus  In his comments in  Mexico  welcoming French tax exiles,
Cameron also referred to the new levies as “completely
uncompetitive top rates of tax.”  At a joint press conference today with Cameron, Hollande
said, “I was not offended by what was a joke. I don’t think
it’s going to have an impact on the movement of capital.”  He said the tax dimension is not the biggest difference
between the two countries. “I look the U.K.’s maximum tax
level. It’s 45 percent. In France, it’s only 41 percent as of
today. That doesn’t entice British citizens to come and live in
our country, except for holiday homes that we’re not going to
tax more.”  In his turn, Cameron said people around him who have a
French connection, especially “an ambassador in France who has
a house in Normandy, will be particularly relieved by that last
answer.”  Competitive Challenge  Still, Hollande has drawn fire for focusing much of his
efforts to cut deficits on raising taxes rather than capping
public spending. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  last
month criticized his decision to pull back the minimum
 retirement age  to 60 from 62 for some workers.  The French president, who yesterday opened a two-day
conference in Paris with representatives of employers and unions
to improve French competitiveness, acknowledged the need to
“make our country more competitive, better equipped to face the
challenges of globalization, but we must do it with greater
fiscal justice,” Hollande said.  He held a meeting, a lunch and a press conference with
Cameron at Downing Street today before meeting  Queen Elizabeth II  in Windsor Palace for 30 minutes.  Hollande has tried to use the trip to show a convergence on
French and U.K. views on issues including  Iran ,  Syria  and
military cooperation. Still, the two countries are at odds on
some economic issues, including bank supervision.  The French president today said the U.K. needs to consider
greater bank regulation after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined a record
290 million pounds ($451 million) last month for attempting to
rig the London interbank offered rate.  “When we look at the news here in the U.K., we see there
is the need to regulate to avoid scandals,” Hollande said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  