-- London Judge Throws Out Bid to Stop Olympic Missiles on Rooftops
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-07-10T15:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/london-judge-throws-out-bid-to-stop-olympic-missiles-on-rooftops.html
A U.K. judge rejected an attempt by
residents of a  London  apartment complex to block a ground-to-air
missile system being installed on the roof of their London
building during the Olympic games.  Judge Charles Haddon-Cave in London said that protecting
“the Olympic park from terrorist attacks” outweighed the
concerns of the local residents who fear that the missiles will
make their building a target.  An air defense plan put together by the British government
to defend London during the Olympics includes a series of
ground-based missile sites across the city and two high-velocity
missile sites overlooking the Olympic park as a “last line of
defense.”  U.K. military and civil authorities are increasing efforts
to prevent a terrorist attack during the 16-day Olympic games,
which start in London July 27. Police have arrested 14 people
over the last week throughout the country in two separate
counter-terrorism probes.  The residents of the building in the Leytonstone area of
east London argued the missiles violated their human rights and
they were never consulted about the installation.  “It is the unprecedented siting of a military base or
missile site in peace time on English soil that brings us to
this court,” Marc Willers, a lawyer for the residents, said
yesterday. “The deployment of the missile system gives rise to
the fear that the tower itself might be the target of a
terrorist attack.”  The residents can renew the application for a review at the
U.K. appeal court. David Forsdick, a lawyer for the government,
said the residents must make an appeal quickly to avoid
interfering with the installation of the missiles.  The case is The Queen on the application of Harrow
Community Support Ltd. v. The Secretary of State for Defence,
 High Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, CO/6767/2012  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net ;
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  