-- Money-Market Funding Stress Increases Amid Libor Woes
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-07-10T18:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/money-market-funding-stress-increases-amid-libor-woes-correct-.html
(Corrects the amount of securities in first paragraph.)  Forward markets signaled strains in
short-term dollar funding will edge higher as the scandal
surrounding the London interbank offered rate threatens the
benchmark’s credibility and its roles in pricing more than $360
trillion in global securities.  Predictions in the forward market for the gap between the
London interbank offered rate and federal funds, known as Libor-
OIS, rose to 32.8 basis points from 32.2 basis points yesterday,
according to the second rolling three month so-called FRA/OIS
spread. The forward spread has widened nearly 11 percent since
touching an almost four-month low on July 4 at 29.6 basis
points.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which
represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to borrow
from another,  was  0.45760, where it had held since July 6,
according to the British Bankers’ Association. The Libor-OIS
spread, a gauge of banks reluctance to lend, was unchanged at
29.1 basis points.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
where the Fed’s effective funds rate will average for the term
of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent.  Swap Rates  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, widened 0.35 basis point to 26 basis points. The gap, a
gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking sector credit
risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for dollar
Libor, is up from this year’s low of 22 basis points reached on
June 27.  Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types
of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
fell $35.8 billion to $972.5 billion in the week ended July 4,
according to Federal Reserve data.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market decreased. The three-month cross-currency
basis swap was 57.5 basis points below Euribor, compared with
58.6 basis points below yesterday.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, held steady.
The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was 40
basis points, the lowest since June 14.  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars was minus 34.8 basis points, from minus
35.7 basis points yesterday. A negative swap price indicates
investors are willing to receive reduced interest payments on
the yen they lend in order to obtain the needed financing in
dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  