-- Monti Says He Excludes Serving Beyond End of Term Next Year
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-07-10T16:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/monti-says-he-won-t-serve-beyond-end-of-term-next-year.html
Italy’s unelected Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  said he won’t serve in another government when his
term ends next year.  “I have always excluded and I still exclude considering an
experience of government that goes beyond the next election,
which is naturally the end of the government that I have the
honor of presiding over,” he told reporters in Brussels today
after a meeting of finance ministers.  Monti made the comments after speculation in the Italian
press about the possibility that the premier would be asked to
remain in office after elections due in April of next year. The
nation’s two main political parties, which suspended their
rivalries and have jointly supported Monti’s policies, may not
be able to win a governing majority in parliament on their own,
polls indicate.  Italy ’s 10-year bond pared some of its early gains after
Monti’s remarks, with the yield at 5.957 percent at 5:30 p.m.,
after falling as low as 5.54 percent earlier.  “While this is not an unexpected decision, it will not be
received well in the markets,” said Nicholas Spiro, managing
director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy, a London-based firm
specializing in sovereign-credit risk. “Politics is key to the
Italian credit story in the minds of most investors. If there
has been a ‘game-changer’ since Italy got sucked into the euro-
zone crisis, it has been the appointment of Mr. Monti as
premier.”  Monti was appointed as prime minister in November to
replace  Silvio Berlusconi  and within weeks passed 20 billion
euros ($24.6 billion) in austerity measures, overhauled the
pension system and embarked on changing labor market rules. The
measures aimed at balancing the budget, reviving the economy and
containing the debt, deepened the recession and led to a drop in
support for Monti and his allies.  Monti’s popularity fell last month to an all-time low of 33
percent, less than half the level when he was appointed in
November, polling company SWG said on June 15.  Backing for the  Democratic Party  declined and support for
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty Party dropped to the lowest since
his first electoral victory in 1994, according to SWG.  The governing coalition, which collectively rated more than
77 percent in polls in November, is down to 48.5 percent, the
Trieste, Italy-based research company said.  Bond Yields  Monti’s efforts to shore up Italy’s finances initially led
to a plunge in the 10-year bond yield from more than 7 percent
when he took power to less than 5 percent in March. Those yields
began rising again in May as  Spain  moved closer to its June 9
aid request dragging down Italian bonds. Italy’s 10-year yield
closed above 6 percent yesterday.  Monti has been lobbying European partners to agree to a
plan to use the region’s bailout fund to buy the bonds of
countries meeting their fiscal goals to help bring down yields.
Today he did not rule out Italy making such a request should
yields not come down despite his efforts to balance the budget
and overhaul the economy.  “What Italy has wanted to propose, thinking about itself
but available for any country that might need it, is a mechanism
to intervene whether in the primary market or the secondary
market, which remains to be defined, by buying bonds issued by a
certain country in order to contain the fluctuations in the
spread,” he said.  No Bailout  Monti said he was confident that Italy wouldn’t follow
Greece, Portugal and Ireland in asking for a full bailout,
“though Italy “could be interested, as could other countries,
in an intervention of the other type.”  Nobel Prize-winning economist  Robert Mundell  said in a July
4 interview that Monti should stay in power after next year’s
elections as his international prestige can benefit the country
saddled with the euro region’s second-largest  debt  of more than
120 percent of gross domestic product.  “Although he is not a magician, he is probably going to be
the best next thing for Italy politically,” Mundell said.
“Continuation of Monti is probably better than any of the
political alternatives at the moment.”  Monti said today that after the elections he will remain a
member of the Italian parliament as a senator-for-life.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Brussels at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  