-- Oracle Buys Involver to Expand in Social-Media Tools
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-07-10T21:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/oracle-buys-involver-to-expand-in-business-social-media-tools.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the world’s largest
maker of  database software , is buying Involver Inc., the third
acquisition in two months aimed at helping customers use social-
media tools to market wares and run their businesses.  Closely held Involver makes software tools that let
companies interact with customers on Facebook Inc. and Twitter
Inc.’s social-networking services. Its products also let
marketers create Facebook pages to represent their brands.  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  is using  dealmaking 
to step up rivalry with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) 
in the market for social-media management tools, which may more
than double to $970 million in 2016 from $389 million this year,
according to Forrester Research Inc.  “Everything’s becoming more integrated overall, whether
it’s customer-relationship management, advertising or
analytics,” said Kimberly Maul, an analyst at market researcher
EMarketer Inc. “Brands want to be able to do all of that
together.”  Terms of the deal weren’t disclosed. Shares of Oracle were
little changed, slipping less than 1 percent to $29.05 at the
close in  New York . The stock is up 13 percent this year.  More Collaboration  The rise of social media ads, such as sponsored stories on
Facebook and promoted tweets on Twitter, means workers who
create websites, write ad copy and manage customer relationships
need to collaborate more, Maul said.  That’s spurring acquisitions by Oracle and Salesforce,
which sell a range of sales, marketing and customer-service
software. Oracle said in May that it is buying Vitrue Inc.,
which helps companies run marketing campaigns on Facebook and
Twitter. It announced plans the following month to buy
Collective Intellect Inc., which analyzes user data culled from
websites.  Customers  of Involver include Best Buy Co., Toys “R” Us
Inc. and Viacom Inc.’s MTV Networks, according to Involver’s
website.  Salesforce said on June 4 that it would  pay $689 million 
for Buddy Media Inc., which helps companies create social-media
campaigns. Weeks later, Microsoft agreed to pay $1.2 billion for
Yammer Inc., a maker of software that lets employees collaborate
in the workplace.  Marketing Automation  The kind of software Involver, Buddy Media and other
social-marketing companies make is especially attractive to
startups that want to invest more in acquiring customers online
than hiring lots of sales staff, said  Rick Sherlund , an analyst
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York.  “A lot of young companies need to invest maybe more in
marketing automation than they do in sales-force automation,”
he said. “This is a new wave of marketing and it’s becoming a
very strategic area.”  Deals by Oracle and Salesforce may put more pressure on  SAP
AG (SAP) , the largest maker of business applications, to acquire
companies in the social-marketing area.  “I’m sure they’ll engage,” said Sherlund, who has “buy”
ratings on Oracle and SAP. “They’ll need to be active here as
well.” Jive Software Inc., which went public in December, could
be a possible acquisition target, he said.  So could closely held Wildfire Interactive Inc. and Hearsay
Social Inc., which makes dashboards for monitoring workers’
activities on Facebook, Twitter and other sites, said
EMarketer’s Maul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  