-- Touradji’s Chief Executive Peter Borish Leaves Hedge Fund
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-07-10T19:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/touradji-s-chief-executive-peter-borish-leaves-hedge-fund.html
Peter Borish, chief executive
officer of Touradji Capital Management LP, left the commodities
hedge fund founded by Paul Touradji after six months, becoming
the fifth high-ranking executive to leave since the start of
2011.  Borish was let go last month, Bob Zito, a spokesman for the
New York-based fund, said by phone today. “He was originally on
a six-month contract and had a CEO role focused on marketing,”
he said. Borish couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Touradji, 40, told clients in a June 28 letter that the
firm has been focusing on building its business rather than
marketing, and as a result decided to cut staff in that area.  Borish’s departure adds to a roster of senior executives to
leave Touradji Capital in the past 18 months. Paul Crone, the
former head of trading, left earlier this year after former
Chief Financial Officer Tom Dwan and President Sang Lee departed
in 2011. Gil Caffray, who Touradji hired in 2009 to help run his
business, also exited last year to join his former employer
Tiger Management LLC.  Borish, a former head of research at hedge fund Tudor
Investment Corp., had joined Touradji Capital in January,
replacing Touradji as CEO so that the fund’s founder could focus
on his role as chief investment officer, the firm told clients
at the time.  ‘Unwavering’ Focus  “We appreciate the ability to keeping our focus unwavering
and clear,” Touradji said in the June 28 letter. “So we will
not be picking up Peter Borish’s contract for the second half of
the season, and he will become a free agent again.”  Touradji hired Caffray in January 2009 to oversee business
development and operations so that he could focus on investing.
The following year, Touradji hired Lee and said Caffray would be
a special adviser, Reuters  reported  in October 2010. Three
months later, Caffray joined Tiger.  Last September, Touradji said he was looking for “world-
class” leaders to replace Lee and Dwan. Touradji reiterated at
the time that he planned to focus more on investing and delegate
much of the day-to-day operations to others. Touradji said in
January that hiring Borish would allow him to focus on his CIO
role.  Iranian-born Touradji, a former portfolio manager at Tiger,
started Touradji Capital in 2005 after a fund he co-founded,
Catequil Asset Management LP, shuttered in 2004 after three
years.  Other departures from Touradji include Andreas Hommert, a
metals analyst, who left the firm earlier this year, according
to Zito.  Last year, a  New York  judge reinstated three claims brought
by former Touradji Capital employees, who accused the firm of
unjustly withholding bonuses and reinvesting them without their
permission, that were dismissed by a lower court in 2009. Zito
declined to comment on the claims.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  