-- Low-Paid Grads On Tight Budgets Switching to Discounters
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z
-- 2012-07-10T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/low-paid-grads-on-tight-budgets-switching-to-discounters.html
Michael Baum took every substitute
teaching job he found and has sent out hundreds of resumes since
graduating from college two years ago. He never got a full-time
offer and works as a waiter at a pizza parlor in Chicago,
earning $650 during a busy week.  “It’s discouraging,” said Baum, 25, who is certified to
teach in Texas and North Carolina as well as his native
Michigan. His pay is just enough to cover basic living expenses.  Baum has joined the growing number of underemployed
graduates in the U.S., in an election year when both President
 Barack Obama  and presumptive Republican challenger  Mitt Romney 
are vying for young voters with promises to restore jobs.
Underemployment isn’t debilitating only for individuals whose
career and income opportunities are stunted. It threatens the
economic expansion as college-educated young adults have
traditionally fueled  consumer spending  on clothes, technology,
entertainment and cars.  “If you have a stumbling entry into the labor market, you
risk getting stuck in jobs for which you’re overqualified and
poorly paid for the rest of your life,” said  Katherine Newman ,
a sociologist and dean of the school of arts and sciences at
 Johns Hopkins University  in Baltimore who has studied the long-
term effects of underemployment. “There’s a scarring effect,
with employers you want marking you as undesirable. The economic
toll is enormous.”  The underemployed include those of all ages who are working
part-time but want full-time positions. There were 8.2 million
people working part-time for economic reasons in June, according
to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics . That number had doubled
to 9.1 million in the last quarter of 2009 from 4.5 million in
the same period of 2007.  Rising Unemployment  Unemployment for Americans ages 20 to 24, which has topped
10 percent for four years, was 13.7 percent in June, up from
12.9 percent the previous month, according to the Labor
Department. Employers added 80,000 jobs in June, fewer than
forecast, and the overall rate stayed at  8.2 percent , the data
showed July 6.  There were 1.9 million jobless ages 20-24 who weren’t in
school in June, a gain of 312,000 from May and the biggest
increase since record keeping began on the topic in 1985,
according to nonseasonally adjusted statistics. The age group’s
labor-force participation is the lowest since 1985, and the
percentage working part-time and not in school is the highest
since then, data show.  High Demand  The outlook is brighter for recent graduates with degrees
in computer science, engineering and accounting, with skills
that are in high demand, according to the National Association
of Colleges and Employers. While the group’s latest survey of
companies shows a 10.2 percent increase in hiring plans from
2011, the improvement isn’t benefiting all majors the same way,
said Edwin Koc, who heads research at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-
based NACE.  Those “with certain skill sets are doing quite
well,” while things are tougher for others, such as liberal-
arts, humanities and education majors, he said.  Instead of indulging at the start of their career, many
young people with degrees now are scrimping. Compared with five
years ago, Generation Y -- people born from 1981 to 2001 -- is
shopping more at discounters and value stores such as  TJX Cos. (TJX) ’s
T.J. Maxx and Marshall’s and  Dollar General Corp. (DG) , and less at
premium-priced retailers such as  Limited Brands Inc. (LTD) ’s
Victoria’s Secret,  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN) , according to
Kantar Media. The New York-based research company analyzed
shopping habits from January to May this year and in 2007.  Car Purchasers  Consumers ages 18 to 34 accounted for 8.7 percent of new
vehicle registrations through April and 8.9 percent in 2011,
according to Edmunds.com, which tracks the data. That’s down
from 13.8 percent for eleven months in 2007, heading into the
18-month recession that started in December of that year.  About 60 percent of buyers in that age range said they are
“more likely to choose a lower-priced brand than my usual brand
if it means I can save money,” compared with 50 percent of 35-
to-54-year-old buyers and 42 percent for people who are 55 and
older, according to a survey of shopping trends conducted in
February by WSL/Strategic Retail, a New York-based consultant.  Half of the young consumers said they avoid going into
stores where they might be tempted to spend money, and 57
percent said they “make a point to search online for store
discounts,” compared with 45 percent of 35-to-54-year-olds.  “Retailers used to be able to count on young adults to be
the first to buy whatever was new and to purchase the bigger
brands at better stores,” said Candace Corlett, president of
WSL/Strategic Retail. “Now they can’t afford that, and they’re
so comfortable with mobile technology, they’ve become the
savviest at getting the best prices. We’re smothering aspiration
at a very early age.”  Inherited Computer  Baum, who can’t afford a new laptop or a tablet, uses a
computer he inherited from his father. When he lived with his
parents in suburban Detroit for a year after finishing his
degree at Oakland University in Rochester, Michigan, he went out
to restaurants or bars a few times a week, spending $60 to $80
each time. Now it’s once or twice a month. He and his two
roommates have  Internet service  in their $900-a-month apartment
and no cable -- to save money. He still plans to try to get a
teaching position in Illinois.  Jeffrey Joerres, chief executive officer of Milwaukee-based
staffing company ManpowerGroup, said there may be a “lost
generation” of educated young adults in today’s workforce.  Falling Behind  “If they don’t have very specific skills that are in high
demand, like engineering or computer science, young B.A.s are
vulnerable and often aren’t building any skills in jobs they can
find,” he said. “Within a year or two, they’re competing with
a newly minted group of B.A.s, so fall behind further.”  They’re also displacing less-educated young people from
less-skilled service jobs, said Mark Melnik, deputy director for
research at Boston Redevelopment Authority, who has studied
underemployment.  The number of waiters and waitresses ages 18 to 30 with
college degrees increased 81 percent from 2000 to 2010, to
159,645, according to  U.S. Census  Bureau figures. Educated
bartenders, dishwashers and file clerks in that age group
doubled. The number of janitors with college degrees rose 87
percent to 20,475, and the number of maids climbed 52 percent to
10,930, the data show.  The weak job market dissuaded  Richard Wagner  from even
looking for a job requiring a college degree after he graduated
from the  University of California  at  Santa Barbara  a year ago
with a major in psychology.  Walking Dogs  “I didn’t have high expectations,” said Wagner, who said
he felt lucky to find a job as a dog walker for $15 an hour when
he moved to New York last winter.  “That’s more than minimum wage, so a lot of people want to
do this,” said Wagner, who spends seven hours each day walking
10 to 12 dogs, two at a time.  Determined to support himself, he has learned to live
frugally. Besides his rent of $600 a month in a Brooklyn
apartment shared with five roommates, he allots $10 a day for
food, cooking most of his meals. He uses his bike for
transportation to avoid having to pay subway fare.  “All of my roommates are in the same boat, so we aren’t
encouraging one another to spend money or go out,” he said.  Since she graduated from the  University of Colorado  in
2010, Darien Buckley has moved to two cities for three different
jobs that don’t utilize her double major in studio photography
and communications. She first worked as an office clerk at a
financial-services company in Pittsburgh and then as a data-
entry clerk in Orange County,  California .  Telemarketing Job  Currently, she works in telemarketing at an Orange County
company that produces pet-themed magazines, the closest she has
gotten to the career she wants. She sells advertisements by
phone, and her office is one exit on the highway from the
editorial-staff office.  “You just have to pull strings and hope for something that
will get you that ‘in,’” said Buckley, 24, who hopes she’ll
eventually get a job in the editorial division.  Meanwhile she’s struggling to cover her rent, car and other
living expenses on the $30,000 she earns. Buckley calls herself
a bargain shopper -- looking for deals at  Target Corp. (TGT) , Forever
21 Inc. and  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ’s H&M. She and her fiance have
sworn off credit cards to avoid making impulse purchases.
Several times a week they eat canned black beans and corn for
dinner. They hardly ever dine out.  Buckley’s biggest indulgence is caring for her dog, a
mixed-breed adopted from a shelter. The cost of treating Ralphie
for fleas recently nearly broke her budget, she said.  In the end, underemployed youth will rob the U.S. of
economic and intellectual firepower, said  Johns Hopkins ’ Newman.  “Underemployment can’t be tracked as closely as
unemployment, but we know from studies of what happened in the
Great Depression there’s a chronic impact,” Newman said.
“Young people working jobs they’re overqualified for don’t get
trained or encouraged to advance and become successful, and both
they and employers lose out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Hymowitz in New York at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  