-- Mortgage Rate Spread to RBA Benchmark at 270 Points: Lowe
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-07-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/lowe-says-intervention-bar-quite-high-on-aussie-dollar.html
Australian mortgage rates have
widened relative to the central bank’s benchmark borrowing cost
because of more expensive funding and greater competition for
deposits,  Reserve Bank  Deputy Governor  Philip Lowe  said today.  “What we are seeing as a result of both market and
regulatory developments is an increase in most  interest rates  in
the economy relative to the cash rate,” Lowe said in the text
of a speech in Melbourne. “This increase is due partly to the
global loss of trust in financial institutions, which has led to
all banks paying more for funds in  capital markets .”  Lowe didn’t comment on the nation’s growth outlook or the
trajectory for rates in his prepared remarks to the conference
of economists. He said the central bank’s overnight cash rate
target is about 1.5 percentage points lower than it would have
been before the 2008-09 global financial crisis to take account
of the higher borrowing costs in the economy.  In the decade preceding 2007, the average outstanding
variable mortgage rate was 150 basis points above the cash rate,
he said. “Today, this difference is around 270 basis points,”
Lowe said.  The  Reserve Bank of Australia  reduced rates by 125 basis
points from November to June, including a 50-point cut in May
designed to help drive down mortgage rates, as Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis slows growth in  Australia ’s biggest
trading partner,  China . Australia’s economy has been powered by
high prices for coal and iron ore in the past decade as Chinese
urbanization spurs global demand.  Deposit Competition  Lowe said higher funding costs for banks are also being
driven by competition for deposits among lenders, a trend seen
in nations including the U.K.,  Sweden  and  New Zealand .  “In Australia, while public attention has clearly focused
on the widening spread between the mortgage rate and the cash
rate, there has been much less attention paid to the fact that
reductions in the cash rate have not been passed through fully
into deposit rates,” Lowe said, noting in the past depositors
were lucky to be paid close to the cash rate on their savings.  “In stark contrast, today there are a number of deposit
products that pay about 2 percentage points above the cash
rate,” he said.  Lowe said that while Australia has avoided a crisis,
fallout from Europe and the U.S. is having “a significant
impact” on the domestic financial system through the tightening
of regulation and developments in the marketplace.  “Many of these changes are positive and, over time, they
should enhance the safety and resilience of our financial
system,” he said. “But as these changes take place, all those
interested in finance need to do their best to understand the
impact on the cost and availability of finance. And we should
not lose sight of the importance of system-wide supervision,
including understanding the innovations in both the Australian
and the global financial systems.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  