-- Packers Sales, Profit Reach Records in Year After Super Bowl Win
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-07-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/packers-report-record-42-7-million-profit-year-after-super-bowl.html
The Green Bay Packers’ fiscal 2012
profit more than doubled to a record $42.7 million as costs fell
and retail sales climbed a year after they won the  Super Bowl .  Net income in the year through March eclipsed the previous
record of $25.4 million set in 2005, Chief Executive  Mark Murphy 
said yesterday on an conference call. In fiscal 2011, the
Packers had earned $17.1 million, as benefits from winning the
National Football League championship were offset by uncertainty
surrounding a four-month player lockout that ended in July 2011.  Profit rose as expenses dropped and pro shop sales reached
a record, Murphy said. Stadium visits also helped revenue reach
a record $302 million, from $282.6 million, at the only publicly
owned franchise in the major North American sports leagues.  “We really saw the organization ride the wave of a Super
Bowl title and then this year, following that up with a 15-1
season really benefited us from a financial standpoint,” Murphy
said. “We did set records in terms of local revenue, total
revenue was the first time ever over $300 million and the profit
from operation was at an all-time high of $43 million.”  Led by Pro Bowl quarterback  Aaron Rodgers , the Packers won
their fourth Super Bowl after the 2010 season. Last season,
after the four-month labor dispute ended with a 10-year accord,
the team won its first 13 games and lost in the playoffs to the
eventual-champion  New York Giants .  More Revenue  Local revenue rose to a record $130.4 million from $119.3
million. National revenue, including television and league
sharing, climbed to $171.6 million from $163.3 million. Player
costs declined to $155.4 million from $158.9 million, while
expenses dropped to $259 million from $270.5 million.  Part of the decline in expenses came because the team had
four away postseason games two years ago, including the Super
Bowl, and none last season. The Packers also benefited from
reduced costs during the lockout, when the franchise was in “a
belt-tightening mode,” Vice President of Finance  Paul Baniel 
said.  “It wasn’t unusual for departments to be deferring
projects, waiting to see the outcome,” Baniel said on the call.
“Some of the decline is just due to the fact that we were in a
slower state for those first four months.”  The labor dispute’s resolution also gave confidence to
sponsors and television networks, Murphy said.  ‘Labor Peace’  “The fact that we had guaranteed labor peace and the fact
that we have a 10-year agreement was probably as helpful as
anything,” Murphy said. “We’ve been able to enter into long-
term agreements with our sponsors, we have a new preseason TV
package that would not have been possible without the labor
deal.”  Murphy said the growth of local revenue was due to fans’
excitement about the Super Bowl victory and the team’s 13-0
start to last season. The Packers had a record 156,000 visitors
to their Hall of Fame this past year, and 137,000 people toured
 Lambeau Field .  “The success of the team in winning the Super Bowl and the
fan excitement that followed that really benefited us last
year,” Murphy said. “What we’ve seen this year is that
continued to benefit us.”  Lambeau Leap  He said the profit would be invested in the $143 million
expansion of Lambeau Field. This year the Packers will add two
high-definition video boards and a new entrance for premium-seat
customers, and in 2013 add 7,000 seats and a new entrance in the
stadium’s South end zone.  Green Bay Packers Inc. has been a publicly owned, non-
profit corporation since August 1932, according to the team’s
website. In the past year, the team conducted the fifth stock
sale in franchise history, adding more than 250,000 shareholders
and raising $64 million.  That money, which is considered equity on the team’s
balance sheet and isn’t included in the statement of income,
will also go to the Lambeau renovations, Murphy said. The shares
pay no dividend and cannot be resold, except back to the team
for a fraction of the original price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  