-- Pandora Starts Trial Service in Australia, New Zealand
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-07-11T20:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/pandora-starts-trial-service-in-australia-new-zealand.html
Pandora Media Inc. (P)  is embarking on
an overseas expansion aimed at luring new users while allaying
investor concerns that it may struggle to grow outside the U.S.  Pandora’s Internet radio service, which has been available
only in the U.S., initiated its first push overseas at the end
of June with trials in  Australia  and New Zealand, Chief
Executive Officer  Joe Kennedy  said. The service in the two
countries is currently just on the Web, not mobile devices, and
is free of advertisements.  “Our focus is to have conversations with those listeners
to understand and get their feedback about the service, the
music and great Australian bands that they’re not hearing that
we need to add to the collection,” Kennedy said yesterday in an
interview. “We have had ongoing conversations in many parts of
the world and reached agreements with rights-holder groups in
these two countries.”  Founded by  Tim Westergren  in 2000, Pandora has struggled in
the public markets, slumping 38 percent since its initial
offering in June of last year. One issue for investors is the
difficulty of establishing royalty agreements. The Oakland,
California-based company said in its prospectus that while
expanding the service outside of the U.S. is part of its long-
term strategy, that effort “involves numerous risks and
challenges,” because licensing terms in other countries are
“prohibitively expensive.”  Pandora  climbed  0.2 percent to $9.95 at the close in  New
York . The stock’s post-IPO plunge compares with a 4.1 percent
gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index over the same period.  Royalty Agreements  In 2007, Pandora blocked access to its site from countries
outside the U.S., saying that it didn’t have licensing
agreements in place to operate internationally.  “Trust that we will continue working as hard as we can to
obtain the licenses we need, and to push for the establishment
of effective, centralized licensing bodies around the world,”
Westergren said in a  blog post  in May 2007.  In 2009, Pandora struck a royalty agreement with the
nonprofit music industry group SoundExchange to compensate
artists for the songs it plays in the U.S. With no such
institution handling international royalties, Pandora has to
negotiate deals separately.  “It’s a very complicated chess match to build a catalog
and attack country by country,” said Steven Frankel, an analyst
at Dougherty & Co. in  Boston , who rates the stock a sell and
doesn’t own it. “The question is, how quickly can they build up
a meaningful international business and what’s the cost of
market entry.”  Kennedy said that Pandora expects to eventually include ads
in Australia and  New Zealand  and to introduce the service on
mobile devices, which now account for the majority of revenue.
For now, the company is just collecting as much data as possible
on user preferences, while Westergren converses with the new
customer base.  “Tim is personally answering hundreds of e-mails,
acknowledging feedback and having conversations,” Kennedy said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy at   alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  