-- Passport to Wind Down Materials Hedge Fund After 31% Loss
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-07-10T21:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/passport-to-wind-down-materials-hedge-fund-after-31-loss.html
Passport Capital LLC, the $3.4
billion hedge fund founded by  John Burbank , plans to wind down
its materials fund after a 31 percent loss this year, according
to a letter to investors obtained by Bloomberg News.  The Passport Materials Fund fell 17 percent in the second
quarter, the fund’s portfolio managers, James Cunningham and
Sebastien Boifort, said in a letter to investors dated
yesterday.  The fund has taken longer than expected to exit private
investments, the three largest of which are Ferrous Resources
Ltd., Satimola Ltd. and Canadian Sinosun Energy Inc., the
managers said. The fund lost 45 percent over one year, an
annualized 13 percent over three years and 9.8 percent over five
years. The fund still is up at a 6.6 percent rate since
inception in March 2006.  “The privates in the portfolio are taking longer than
expected to achieve liquidity, making it impractical to expect
liquidity from the privates to increase trading capital in the
near term,” Cunningham and Boifort said in the letter.  Steve Bruce , a spokesman for San Francisco-based Passport,
declined to comment on the letter.  The 14 private investments in Passport’s materials fund
make up about 62 percent of the portfolio, the managers said. On
or near July 15, Passport intends to give back about 75 percent
of the public portion of the fund’s net asset value to
investors, according to the letter. The wind-down of those
positions will continue “over the ensuing months,” the
managers said.  Ferrous Stake  Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  is seeking to buy a stake
in Ferrous Resources, a closely held Brazilian iron ore mining
company, from  Phil Falcone ’s Harbinger Capital Partners LLC,
four people familiar with the talks said in April.  Ferrous has been trying to find a strategic partner to help
finance its Brazilian projects since at least 2009, having
shelved plans in June 2010 for a $400 million initial public
offering in  London  because of fluctuating equity markets. In
December, Ferrous proposed a $2.3 billion takeover of rival MMX
Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the Rio de Janeiro-based iron-ore
producer controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ,
according to a letter detailing the plan obtained by Bloomberg
News. MMX said on Jan. 19 that it’s not interested in a Ferrous
merger.  In the second quarter, Passport marked down the materials
fund’s investment in Ferrous by 24 percent to $2 a share from
$2.63 a share, reflecting changes in the company’s business plan
as part of a strategic review by Chief Executive Officer Jayme
Nicolato Correa, the managers said in the letter.  Satimola Holding  Changes in an unnamed acquirer’s proposal to buy Satimola,
a closely held potash exploration company based in  Kazakhstan ,
has reduced the value of the expected bid, Cunningham and
Boifort said. If the transaction falls through, the company will
probably require additional financing, which will be dilutive,
according to the managers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  