-- Patriot Bankruptcy May Leave Peabody Liable for Expense
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-07-10T20:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/patriot-bankruptcy-may-leave-peabody-liable-for-expense.html
Patriot Coal Corp.’s bankruptcy may
leave competing U.S. mining companies  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  and
 Arch (ACI)  Coal Inc. liable for expenses related to Patriot operations
they once owned.  Peabody, the largest U.S. coal producer ranked by sales,
may be responsible for liabilities for the treatment of black
 lung disease  that were assumed by Patriot when it was spun off
from Peabody in 2007, according to a February filing. Peabody
may be responsible for the liabilities, which are expected to be
less than $150 million, should Patriot be unable to fund them,
according to the filing.  Arch, the fourth-biggest producer, may have to cover
contracts from Patriot unit Magnum Coal Co., according to Arch
filings.  Patriot filed for protection in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
 Manhattan  yesterday. The St. Louis-based company, whose Chapter
11 petition listed $3.57 billion in assets and $3.07 billion in
debts, is the biggest casualty so far of the slump in the U.S.
coal industry, which has cut tens of millions of tons of
production following a mild winter and after natural-gas prices
dropped to their lowest in a decade.  Patriot’s reorganization may accelerate the closing of some
of its high-cost Appalachian mines, reducing the region’s
surplus of production, Curt Woodworth, a  New-York  based analyst
with Nomura Securities International Inc., said in a note today.  Arch Guarantee  Magnum was acquired by Patriot in 2008 from investors
including hedge fund ArcLight Capital Partners LLC. Three years
earlier, Magnum had bought mines from Arch, which guaranteed
some of Magnum’s obligations to supply coal, according to Arch
filings.  If Patriot fails to deliver 10 million tons from Magnum
under contract, Arch will have to do so, said Lucas Pipes, an
analyst at Brean Murray Carret & Co. in New York. The deliveries
would cost Arch less than $100 million, he said, citing
conversations with the company.  Kim Link, a spokeswoman for Arch, and Vic Svec, a spokesman
for Peabody, didn’t immediately respond to messages seeking
comment.  The New York Stock Exchange  announced  today it would stop
trading in Patriot shares and begin proceedings to delist them.  Other U.S. coal stocks fell.  James River Coal Co. (JRCC)  slid 25
percent to $2.16 in New York, the biggest decline since Dec. 1,
2008. Arch fell 8.4 percent and Peabody 3.7 percent.  Patriot has an $802 million loan to finance its operations
in bankruptcy and said yesterday it expects mining and customer
shipments to continue. The loan arranged through Citigroup
Global Markets Inc., Barclays Bank Plc, and Merrill Lynch,
Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc. still requires court approval.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said today it cut its
rating on Patriot to D, its second-lowest ranking, from CC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  