-- Patriot Coal Can Borrow Part of Bankruptcy Loan
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-07-10T22:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/patriot-coal-can-borrow-part-of-bankruptcy-loan.html
Patriot Coal Corp. (PCX) , the bankrupt
coal producer, won permission to borrow part of an $802 million
loan to fund operations while it tries to reorganize by cutting
labor costs.  The company can borrow $677 million on an interim basis,
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper said today in  Manhattan .
Patriot, based in  St. Louis , sought  bankruptcy protection 
yesterday after milder winters, stricter clean-air rules, and a
shift to natural gas by power producers sent U.S. coal demand to
a 24-year low.  “We believe we have a strong and re-organizable company,”
Damian Schaible, a lawyer for Patriot, told Gropper in court
today.  Gropper approved the financing after first sending the
company back to negotiate with lenders over a part of the loan
that includes $302 million in prior loans that have been rolled
over. Gropper said Patriot hadn’t shown that it needed to
structure the loan that way.  Lawyers for Patriot said they couldn’t get the loan without
that provision, and the company would suffer “immediate and
irreparable harm” if it wasn’t able to immediately access the
loan. Flip Huffard, a managing director at the company’s
restructuring adviser, Blackstone Group LP, told Gropper that
the company wasn’t able to get other loans after trying for
three weeks, and the loan is needed to show customers and
business partners that the company is viable.  ‘Big Billboard’  “It’s a big billboard we’re trying to put in front of the
world: We’re open for business,” Huffard said.  The company intends to “emerge as a viable and strong
competitor in the coal industry,” Chief Financial Officer Mark Schroeder said yesterday in court papers. Patriot needs to trim
labor costs because of declining prices and demand for coal,
along with regulations that will require the company to spend
hundreds of millions of dollars on water-treatment facilities
and pension benefits in coming years, he said.  A new Environmental Protection Agency rule controlling
toxic emissions from coal-fired generators will “limit the
future development” of such plants as the U.S. government
offers incentives to developers of cleaner energy sources, like
natural gas, Schroeder said.  Paying Employees  Patriot has said it expects its mining operations and
customer shipments to continue during the bankruptcy case. The
company won court approval today to pay about 4,000 full-and
part-time employees. Other routine motions, such as one to pay
its most important vendors, were deferred because Gropper was
filling in for Judge Shelley Chapman, who will hear those issues
at a July 16 hearing.  Pension and health-care obligations to unionized employees
will cost the company about $100 million this year and more than
$1.3 billion in total, Schroeder said. About 42 percent of
Patriot’s employees are represented by the  United Mine Workers
of America  under collective-bargaining agreements, which put the
company at a disadvantage to non-union competitors, Schroeder
said.  In addition, Patriot has a liability for $696.8 million in
pension and medical benefits for retired employees stemming from
its 2007 spinoff from  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  As a result of the
spinoff and the 2008 purchase of Magnum Coal Co., Patriot now
pays benefits to more than three times as many retirees and
dependents as active employees, Schroeder said.  Black Lung  Other obligations to former employees include $186 million
tied to the “Black Lung Benefits Act,” a 1969 law that
requires compensation to former coal miners with black  lung
disease , caused by breathing coal dust. Patriot separately had
workers-compensation liabilities of $73 million as of Jan. 1.  Of the $802 million loan, $377 million will go to repay
current debt, leaving $425 million to fund operations.  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  is an agent for lenders that will be repaid first under the
loan, and  Bank of America Corp.  is an agent for those who will
be repaid second. Citigroup, Barclays Plc and Bank of America’s
Merrill Lynch are also acting as agents to themselves and
lenders under the syndicated loan.  The financing consists of a $375 million  term loan ,
$125 million revolving loan, and $302 million in letters of
credit from prior loans that have been rolled over.  Fees for the loan will total $33.5 million, according to
court papers. Patriot had asked to keep the structure of the
fees and details about the loan’s syndication confidential,
saying the information needed to be kept from competing
financial institutions. Gropper deferred that issue to Chapman.  Contracts Targeted  Patriot has identified 34 contracts it can end to cut
costs. Canceling a 2005 agreement with units of  Alpha Natural
Resources Inc. (ANR)  could save $80 million in the next five years,
Patriot said in court papers. The company also seeks to end a
2009 contract requiring it to pay $7 million to American Freedom
Innovations LLC for lobbying and consulting and to reject
equipment leases to save $5 million.  Patriot’s Chapter 11 petition listed $3.57 billion in
assets and $3.07 billion in debts.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,  State Street
Corp. (STT)  and Vanguard Group Inc. each  control  5 percent or more of
Patriot’s voting stock, according to court papers.  Patriot shares , delisted today from the  New York  Stock
Exchange, fell 65 percent to about 22 cents in over-the-counter
trading. They declined 90 percent in the year before yesterday’s
bankruptcy filing.  Coal Demand Falls  The company’s $250 million in 8.25 percent notes due in
2018 traded at 37 cents on the dollar today, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. Patriot’s $200 million in 3.25 percent
notes due in 2013 traded at 7 cents, according to Trace.  Patriot has 12 active mining complexes in Appalachia and
the Illinois Basin and controls an estimated 1.9 billion tons of
coal reserves, according to court papers. It sells thermal coal
to electricity generators and metallurgical coal to steel and
coke producers.  U.S. coal use in the first quarter was the lowest for that
period since 1988, according to the  Energy Information
Administration . Utilities have switched some  power plants  to
cheaper natural gas, which fell to a decade low in April amid a
surplus of the fuel.  Patriot got 87 percent of its 2011 revenue from coal mined
in the Central Appalachian region of the U.S., which includes
 Kentucky  and  West Virginia . Its operating costs in Appalachia
were $71.06 a ton last year, while the average price of Central
Appalachian coal futures was $75.86.  The case is In re Patriot Coal Corp., 12-bk-12900,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  