-- Peregrine Financial Allegedly Has $200 Million Shortfall
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-10T15:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/peregrine-financial-has-200-million-shortfall-cftc-says-1-.html
Peregrine Financial Group Inc., a
futures brokerage, has a customer fund shortfall of at least
$200 million, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
claimed in a complaint filed in federal court.  “The whereabouts of the funds is currently unknown,” the
regulator alleged in its filing today at the U.S. courthouse in
 Chicago . Also named as a defendant in the CFTC filing is firm
founder Russell Wasendorf Sr., who it said attempted suicide on
July 9 outside the firm’s Cedar Falls,  Iowa , offices and is now
comatose.  The regulator is seeking a court order freezing the firm’s
assets and the appointment of a receiver, as well as monetary
relief including fines and restitution.  The U.S.  Federal Bureau  of Investigation is also
participating in the federal probe, said Sandy Breault, a
spokeswoman for the agency’s Omaha office. “We are currently
reviewing the facts of the situation,” she said, declining
to elaborate.  The firm yesterday told its customers that it was being
probed for “accounting irregularities.” Patricia Campbell, a
firm spokeswoman, didn’t immediately reply to voice- or e-mail
messages seeking comment on the CFTC allegations.  The  National Futures Association , an industry self-
regulator yesterday said Peregrine had reported it held about
$400 million in customer-segregated funds as of June 29, of
which $225 million was on deposit at  U.S. Bank .  The regulator was then made aware that its chairman “may
have falsified bank records” and after finding only $5 million
was on deposit.  The NFA has prohibited Peregrine from soliciting or
accepting new customer accounts or funds, placing trades for
customers except to liquidate positions, or distributing
customer money.  The case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v.
Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-5383, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  