-- Peregrine Seeks Liquidation After CFTC Sues Over Cash
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-07-11T23:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/peregrine-financial-group-files-for-chapter-7-liquidation.html
Peregrine Financial Group Inc. filed
to liquidate in bankruptcy after the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission sued the brokerage, alleging a $200 million
“shortfall” in client funds.  Peregrine listed assets of more than $500 million and debt
exceeding $100 million in a Chapter 7 petition filed yesterday
in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Chicago. Separately, U.S. District
Judge Rebecca Pallmeyer issued an order freezing Peregrine’s
assets at the CFTC’s request, saying it appeared there was
“good cause” to believe the firm and its founder, Russell Wasendorf Sr., violated the federal Commodity Exchange Act.  The CFTC sued earlier yesterday, a day after Wasendorf was
found by employees of the firm outside its  Cedar Falls ,  Iowa ,
offices semiconscious in his car after what Black Hawk County,
Iowa, Sheriff  Tony Thompson  said was a suicide attempt.  The  National Futures Association , an industry self-
regulator, said July 9 that Peregrine reported it had about $400
million in customer-segregated funds on or about June 29, of
which $225 million was on deposit at  U.S. Bank .  The regulator said it learned that Peregrine’s chairman
“may have falsified bank records” after finding only $5
million on deposit. The brokerage offered futures, cash, foreign
exchange and options on futures trading.  Peregrine is being probed by the U.S.  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation, said Sandy Breault, a spokeswoman for the
agency’s Omaha, Nebraska office.  WARN Suit  Also yesterday, Ronald Kotulak, who claims to have been
employed by Peregrine in Chicago, sued the firm on behalf of a
group of as many as 100 fellow workers, alleging they were the
victims of a mass firing July 9 in violation of federal law.  Citing the U.S. Worker Adjustment and Retraining
Notification Act, Kotulak claimed he and his colleagues are owed
wages, commissions, vacation pay and retirement plan
contributions that would have been paid out over the next two
months.  “Defendant was required by the WARN Act to give the
plaintiff and the class members at least 60 days advance written
notice of their terminations,” according to Kotulak’s complaint,
now part of the bankruptcy proceeding.  Thompson said in a phone interview yesterday that Wasendorf
was found in his car with a note, the contents of which the
sheriff declined to divulge. A hose ran from the vehicle’s
exhaust pipe into the passenger compartment, he said.  Note Found  An officer with the sheriff’s office arrived just after
8 a.m. July 9 at Peregrine offices, where paramedics were
attending to Wasendorf, according to an incident report e-mailed
to Bloomberg News.  Wasendorf was breathing as he was taken from his car and
was incoherent, according to the report. He was later airlifted
to University of Iowa Hospitals in Iowa City, it said.  “A note was found in the vehicle that indicated possible
discrepancies with accounts at Peregrine Financial Group,”
according to the report.  “Some accounting irregularities are being investigated
regarding company accounts” after “a recent emergency
involving Wasendorf, a suicide attempt,” Peregrine told its
customers July 9 in an e-mailed message. A copy was obtained by
Bloomberg News and confirmed by Patricia Campbell, a company
spokeswoman in  Chicago .  Money Frozen  The NFA “and other officials” have frozen all customer
money, the company said in its e-mail. Wasendorf owns the entire
firm, according to the e-mail.  Campbell yesterday didn’t reply to voice-mail and e-mail
requests for comment on the federal probe and CFTC lawsuit.  Peregrine started as Wasendorf & Son Inc. in 1980,
according to a timeline on the firm’s  website . It evolved into
Peregrine in 1990 and moved its headquarters to Chicago. Two
years later, it was incorporated as a futures commission
merchant.  In 2009, the firm opened a new office at One Peregrine Way
in Cedar Falls, according to the website. Wasendorf was parked
outside that office when he was found July 9.  In its complaint, the CFTC alleged the missing money was
misappropriated by the firm and its founder.  “The whereabouts of the funds is currently unknown,” the
regulator said.  MF Global  The possible loss of customer money at Peregrine follows
the bankruptcy last year of  MF Global (MFGLQ)  Holdings Ltd., where as
much as $1.6 billion in missing client cash has yet to be
recovered by trustees overseeing the liquidation of the firm.  Futures industry leaders including  CME Group Inc. (CME)  Chairman
 Terrence Duffy  said MF Global’s failure was the first time a
futures brokerage’s collapse led to the loss of customer money,
which is supposed to be segregated in separate accounts.  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  has a clearing relationship with
Peregrine and after the broker couldn’t meet a margin call it
“began an orderly liquidation” of the firm’s trades, the New
York-based investment-banking firm said yesterday in a statement.  “Jefferies does not expect to incur any loss in respect of
PFG,” according to the statement. The bank said it will hold
all proceeds from the liquidation in segregated accounts.  The NFA has prohibited Peregrine from soliciting or
accepting new customer accounts or funds, placing trades for
customers except to liquidate positions or distributing customer
money.  Receiver Appointed  Pallmeyer’s order yesterday prohibited the destruction of
the firm’s books and records and granted the CFTC’s request for
access to inspect them. She also appointed a receiver,  Michael M.
Eidelman  of Chicago’s Vedder Price PC, placing him in charge of
the business.  “Until further order of the court,” she said, “the
receiver’s compensation is limited to $25,000 to be satisfied
first out of available assets of defendant Russell R. Wasendorf Sr. and then from available assets of defendant Peregrine
Financial Group Inc.”  The bankruptcy case has been assigned to U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Carol A. Doyle. An initial creditors’ meeting has been
scheduled for Sept. 5.  Allan J. DeMars, a lawyer with the Chicago firm Spiegel &
DeMars, had initially been appointed trustee for the Peregrine
bankruptcy. In a letter filed with the court late today, DeMars
said he was stepping aside at the request of the U.S. Trustee,
Patrick Layng.  New Trustee  Former U.S. Trustee  Ira Bodenstein , now a partner in
Chicago’s Shaw Gussis law firm, has been selected as DeMars’
replacement. He has five days to tell Layng and the court if he
rejects the assignment.  Neither Layng nor DeMars replied to after-hours voice-mail
messages seeking comment on the replacement of DeMars with
Bodenstein.  The bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-
27488, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago). The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-5383, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The
employment case is Kotulak v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,
12-cv-5447, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  