-- Permira Cancels Sale and Refinancing Plan for Iglo Group
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-07-10T16:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/permira-cancels-sale-and-refinancing-plan-for-iglo-group-1-.html
Permira Advisers LLP, a private
equity firm based in London, called off the sale of Iglo Foods
Group Ltd. after receiving bids it deemed too low, and said it
has also stopped exploring ways to pay itself a dividend from
its stake in the fish-finger maker.  “We have taken the decision with Permira not to pursue
Iglo Group’s partial refinancing,” Martin Glenn, chief
executive officer of Iglo Group, said in an e-mailed statement
today. “For us it is ‘business as usual,’ as we move forward on
our strategy for the next phase of our growth.”  Permira considered refinancing Iglo’s debt instead of
selling its stake after  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and BC Partners Ltd.
submitted an offer last month that fell short of Permira’s
target, people with knowledge of the talks said at the time. BC
and Blackstone came back last week with a better offer, which
was still below Permira’s 2.8 billion euro ($3.4 billion)
valuation, two people with knowledge of the matter said today,
asking not to be identified as the process is private. The terms
of the debt refinancing weren’t attractive enough, they said.  Concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis and volatile financial
markets are weighing on its economic recovery has made investors
and lenders wary. Private equity firms have led $20 billion of
leveraged buyouts in western Europe this year, down from $30.4
billion over the same period last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Permira, which is seeking 6.5 billion euros from investors
for a new buyout fund, bought Iglo from Unilever NV for 1.73
billion euros in 2006, and expanded it after purchasing the
Dutch consumer goods maker’s Findus operations in  Italy  for 805
million euros in October 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in  London  at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  