-- Pimco Said to Hire Mortgage Trader Cudzil From Nomura
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-07-10T18:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/pimco-said-to-hire-mortgage-trader-cudzil-from-nomura.html
Michael Cudzil, head of pass-through
mortgage-securities trading at Nomura Securities International
Inc., is joining Pacific Investment Management Co., said four
people with direct knowledge of the hiring.  Cudzil, 36, who focuses on government-backed home-loan
bonds, will be a portfolio manager working in the mortgage group
led by  Scott Simon  at Pimco, which oversees the world’s largest
bond fund, according to two of the people, who requested
anonymity because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.
Cudzil, now based in New York, will relocate to California to
join Newport Beach-based Pimco.  Pimco’s Bill Gross in May boosted the mortgage holdings of
his $263 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  to 52 percent, almost a
three-year high and up from 25 percent last July. Government-
backed housing debt has gained this year as investors seek notes
with limited default risk and speculate that the Federal Reserve
may expand its purchases of the securities to bolster housing.
That helped the fund outperform 99 percent of rivals with
returns of 6.6 percent in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Jonathan Hodgkinson, a  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  spokesman,
confirmed that Cudzil will leave the Tokyo-based firm “to
pursue an opportunity on the buy side.” Pimco’s  Mark Porterfield  didn’t return phone and e-mail messages.  Cudzil’s twin brother Jerry left Morgan Stanley in April to
head U.S. credit trading for asset manager TCW Group Inc.
Michael, who graduated along with Jerry from the University of
Pennsylvania in 1997, joined Nomura in 2009 from Charlotte,
North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , where he had worked
since 2005, according to  records  maintained by the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  “Nomura has built a top-tier diversified securitized
products business in the Americas and is well-positioned to
support the franchise going forward,” Hodgkinson said in a
phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Ruhle in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  