-- Pinnacle Foods Said to Delay Initial Offering to 2013
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-07-10T16:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/pinnacle-foods-said-to-delay-initial-offering-to-2013.html
Pinnacle Foods Group LLC, the
distributor of Hungry Man dinners and Birds Eye frozen
vegetables, is delaying its initial public offering until next
year, said two people familiar with the proceedings.  The foods producer, owned by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , is
holding off as public investors gravitate to more aggressive
growth prospects as consumer sentiment languishes, said one of
the people, who asked not to be named as the process is private.
The offering would probably value Pinnacle at $4 billion to $5
billion, people familiar with the matter said in February.  Consumer confidence  sank to its  lowest level  of the year
last month, dimming the outlook for household spending, which
accounts for 70 percent of the economy. Blackstone, the world’s
largest private equity firm, isn’t in active talks for a private
sale of Pinnacle, one of the people said.  In February, Parsippany, New Jersey-based Pinnacle hired
 Bank of America Corp.  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  to manage its IPO, people
familiar with the process said then. At the time, Blackstone had
planned to take Pinnacle public in the next two quarters, one of
the people said.  Blackstone bought Pinnacle for $2.2 billion about five
years ago, and combined the company with Birds Eye Foods Inc. in
2009 with a $1.3 billion acquisition.  Officials at Barclays and Bank of America declined to
comment. An official at Blackstone didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment. A phone message left at Pinnacle Foods’s
media relations office wasn’t immediately returned.  Earlier this year, Madison Dearborn Partners LLC weighed an
IPO for juice maker Bolthhouse Farms, according to people
familiar with the matter. The Chicago-based buyout firm opted
for a private sale this week instead, agreeing to a $1.55
billion offer from Campbell Soup Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  