-- Quitting Smoking May Add More Weight Than Thought
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-07-10T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/quitting-smoking-may-add-more-weight-than-thought.html
Giving up smoking may lead to an
average weight gain of about 5 kilograms (11 pounds) after 12
months, according to a review of 62 past studies.  That’s higher than the 2.9 kilograms in weight gain often
cited in smoking cessation advice leaflets, researchers at
Universite Paris-Sud and the University of Birmingham in  England 
said in the  review  published yesterday in the British Medical
Journal. The finding was similar for both people who used
nicotine replacement therapy and those who didn’t, they said.  Nicotine, the addictive substance in cigarettes, quells
appetite by latching onto certain brain receptors that crank up
the activity of a system of neurons influencing food desire,
according to a recent Yale University study. While most quitters
in the reviewed studies gained weight, as many as 21 percent
shed pounds and 14 percent gained more than 10 kilograms,
indicating a wide variety of outcomes, the authors said.  “Some people are either destined or able to prevent weight
gain without intervention, whereas others seem likely to gain
enough weight that puts them at risk of diabetes, among other
complications,” the authors said in the published article. The
varied effect on the bathroom scale “is rarely described or
discussed in the literature” on quitting, they said.  Smoking is the leading cause of preventable death in the
developed world and kills 443,000 and sickens 8.6 million each
year in the U.S.,  according to  the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention.  Gaining weight limits some of the health benefits of
quitting and is associated with an increased risk of medical
conditions such as diabetes, the authors said.  “These data suggest that doctors might usefully give
patients a range of expected weight gain” and intervene early
to keep quitters slim, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  