-- Radiation Therapy Bonds Plunge After Medicare Proposes Rate Cut
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-07-10T20:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/radiation-therapy-bonds-plunge-after-medicare-proposes-rate-cut.html
Bonds of Radiation Therapy Services
Inc. fell to a record low after the government proposed cutting
payment rates to cancer clinics in 2013.  Radiation Therapy’s $360 million of 9.875 percent notes due
April 2017 dropped 5.5 cents to 59.5 cents on the dollar at 1:52
p.m. in  New York , according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The  Fort
Myers , Florida-based company’s bonds, which traded at 78.5 cents
last week, now yield 24.8 percent.  The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, known as CMS,
 announced plans  July 6 that would update payment policies and
rates for services to Medicare beneficiaries in hospital
outpatient departments and ambulatory surgical centers beginning
Jan. 1. Radiation Therapy, which had $644.7 million in  revenue 
last year, would see sales fall by about $44 million if the cuts
are enacted, Bryan Carey, the company’s chief financial officer,
said on a conference call on July 9 posted on its website.  “Much to our surprise, the proposed fee schedule included
some drastic cuts to radiation oncology,” Carey said. The
overall reduction would be about 20 percent for Radiation
Therapy, he said.  The Medicare plans are often revised after fee reductions
are announced, according to John Bluemke, who follows the
company for  Standard & Poor’s .  “The preliminary proposal can be one thing, and the final
rule that will come out in November can be quite another,”
Bluemke said in a telephone interview.  Radiation Therapy is owned by Vestar Capital Partners, a
New York-based private-equity firm, according to a March
regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 