-- RBS Pressures Dubai as $10 Billion Debt Talks Stall: Arab Credit
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-07-11T05:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/rbs-pressures-dubai-as-10-billion-debt-talks-stall-arab-credit.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Commerzbank AG and  Standard Bank  Group Ltd may be betting Dubai
will improve terms on a $10 billion debt restructuring to
protect its reputation after a near default in 2009.  The banks walked away from talks with government-owned
Dubai Group after 18 months without an accord, two people
familiar with the situation said July 9. The banks disagreed
with demands for loan maturities of 12 years, one of the people
said, asking not to be identified because the negotiations
aren’t public.  The breakdown comes as the emirate seeks to restore
investor confidence after state-owned holding company Dubai
World’s near default in 2009 roiled global markets. In April,
 Dubai International Capital  LLC agreed to change terms on $2.5
billion of debt and Drydocks World LLC said creditors support
its restructuring plans, helping cement the emirate’s recovery.  “This could be a negotiation tactic by the banks involved
to get better terms from Dubai Group,” Fahd Iqbal, director of
research at EFG Hermes, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“It’s unlikely that they’ll choose to pursue legal action given
the lack of precedent in the  United Arab Emirates .”  The cost of insuring Dubai’s debt for five years fell 4
basis points to 351 yesterday, the lowest since July 6. Still,
that’s more than double the level in neighboring Abu Dhabi,
which helped bail out  Dubai World . They’re also the second-
highest after Bahrain among nations in the six-member Gulf
Cooperation Council for which the swaps are traded.  RBS Steps Down  RBS stepped down as co-chair of the coordinating committee
of mostly unsecured lenders in the talks, one of the people
said. Dubai World reached a deal in March 2011 with about 80
banks to delay payments on $25 billion of debt. Dubai
International Capital, the owner of Travelodge Ltd., reached an
accord to alter terms of $2.5 billion of liabilities in April.  Standard Bank won’t comment on the talks because of client
confidentiality issues, Erik Larsen, a spokesman for the
Johannesburg-based lender, said by telephone. Martin Halusa, a
spokesman for Frankfurt-based  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , declined to
comment. An RBS official who asked not to be identified because
of corporate policy also declined to comment.  “We don’t believe this will escalate as Dubai managed to
restructure most of its debts during the last three years and
will not take the chance to change route,” said Tariq Qaqish,
Dubai-based deputy head of asset management at Al Mal Capital.
“This might be a negotiation tactic” by the banks, he said.  Islamic Bonds  The yield on the Dubai government’s 6.396 percent Islamic
bonds due November 2014 were little changed yesterday after
dropping two basis points this month to 3.51 percent. The
average yield on sovereign sukuk has declined four basis points
in the period to 3.56 percent on July 9, according to the
HSBC/Nasdaq index.  The emirate’s $82 billion economy, which relies on trade
and hospitality for more than a third of gross domestic product,
benefited from a 10 percent increase in visitors last year. The
 property market  is also picking up after the 2008 crash prompted
a 65 percent drop in  house prices . Fourth-quarter home sales
rose 67 percent from a year earlier to 2.85 billion dirhams
($776 million) according to the emirate’s Land Department.  Dubai Group appointed eight banks to represent creditors in
two committees in 2011 to negotiate the terms on $6 billion of
bank debt, with $4 billion owed to other investors. Paris-based
 Natixis (KN)  SA’s Nexgen unit and Mashreqbank PSC of Dubai make up
the committee of secured lenders. RBS and Emirates NBD PJSC were
leading the group of partially-secured and unsecured lenders.  U.S. Property  Dubai Group invests in financial services and owns property
in the U.S., according to its website. It holds stakes in
companies including Dubai-based investment bank Shuaa Capital
PSC, Cairo-based investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE and
BankMuscat SAOG in Oman.  The company proposed paying interest of 1 percent to 2.5
percent, three people familiar with the plan said in April.
Secured creditors, whose loans are backed by assets, will be
repaid principal in three years, according to the people. Banks
that offered partially secured and unsecured loans will be
returned principal in 12 years and receive additional interest
at the end of the loan term, they said.  “The banks stamina continues to be tested on the
refinancing terms and this deadlock may well drag on well past
Ramadan starting in a couple of weeks,”  Saud Masud , chief
executive officer of SM Advisory Group LLC, a  New York  based
investment firm, wrote in emailed comments. “Whether Dubai
Group will finally bring in the government backstop to appease
the lenders or increase the coupon as sweetener is yet to be
seen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  