-- RBS May Raise Irish Home Loan Provisions, Espirito Santo Says
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-07-10T10:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/rbs-may-raise-irish-home-loan-provisions-espirito-santo-says.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
the U.K.’s largest state-controlled lender, may need to set
aside additional provisions to cover rising mortgage losses in
Ireland over the next two years, according to Espirito Santo
Investment Bank.  The investment bank increased its Irish residential
mortgage provisions forecast for RBS by 147 million pounds ($228
million), or 27 percent, for this year and by 370 million
pounds, or 107 percent, for 2013, London-based analyst Shailesh Raikundlia said in a note today. While  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc’s (LLOY)  Irish mortgage arrears have been “consistently 1.6
times” that of the local banking industry in recent years, its
loss provisions are already “conservative,” he said.  “High impairments in Ireland continue to spring unpleasant
surprises for Lloyds and RBS as the economy deteriorates under
the strict austerity measures instigated following the bursting
of the property bubble,” Raikundlia and other  Espirito Santo 
analysts wrote in the note.  Ireland, which is three-quarters through 33.4 billion euros
($41.1 billion) of budget cuts planned to stretch eight years
through 2015, sought an international rescue two years ago as
bank bailout costs threatened to overwhelm the state. RBS, the
largest overseas consumer lender in Ireland, has injected as
much as 10.8 billion pounds into its Ulster Bank unit since 2008
to absorb loan losses.  Lloyds, the U.K.’s biggest mortgage lender, pumped about 8
billion euros into its Irish business from 2008 to the end of
2010, when it subsumed loans made in the country into the
London-based parent company. Ireland has pledged 64 billion
euros to its six largest domestic lenders, including Irish Bank
Resolution Corp., formerly Anglo Irish Bank Corp., and  Allied
Irish Banks Plc. (ALBK)   RBS’s Outlook  “Although Ireland accounts for only 10 percent and 4
percent of gross loans at RBS and Lloyds, provisions account for
48 percent and 37 percent of their total provisions,”
respectively, Espirito Santo said. The investment bank cut its
earnings per share estimate for RBS for this year by 8 percent
to a loss of 23.3 pence per share and by 9 percent for next year
to a profit of 24.4 pence a share. It has a neutral rating on
both banks.  Irish  house prices  have been cut in half from their 2007
peak, according to the  Central Statistics Office , while real
estate values have plunged by two-thirds, according to
Investment Property Databank. The country’s unemployment rate
rose to 14.9 percent in June, the highest level since 1994, the
statistics office said on July 4.  Espirito Santo estimates that the level of Irish mortgages
in negative equity -- where the size of loans are larger than
the value of the underlying properties -- rose to 57 percent at
the end of last year from 47 percent a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  