-- Treasuries Fluctuate Before U.S. Auctions $32 Billion
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-07-10T15:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/treasuries-snap-three-day-gain-before-debt-sales.html
Treasuries fluctuated amid concern
almost record holdings of  U.S. government debt  maturing in three
years and less by Wall Street firms may diminish the haven
appeal of three-year notes at today’s $32 billion auction.  Yields on benchmark 10-year  note  fell to less than 0.1
percentage point from all-time lows as  Bank of England  Governor
 Mervyn King ’s comments that the U.K. economy doesn’t show
“great signs” of recovering from recession underscored the
refuge aspect of U.S. securities. The  three-year notes  traded at
a yield of 0.367 percent before the sale, just above the record
low level set at the September auction.  “Dealer positioning is really long in the three-year
sector as domestic buyers haven’t been buying a lot and the Fed
is selling a lot of positions in that sector, which may weigh
against demand some,” said  Scott Sherman , an interest-rate
strategist in New York at Credit Suisse Group AG, one of 21
primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “But given the
headwinds in the economy, and with the Fed still on hold, the
auctions should be fine.”  Ten-year note  yields  were little changed at 1.51 percent at
11:33 a.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
data. The all-time low was 1.44 percent set June 1. Yields fell
12 basis points in the past three days. The 1.75 percent
security due May 2022, fell 1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 face
amount, to 102 5/16.  Primary dealer  net outright position in U.S. government
securities due in three years or less is at of $61.5 billion,
down from a high of $73.2 billion in June, according to Federal
Reserve data. The average over the past year is $34.5 billion.  Butterfly Chart  A  butterfly-chart spread  indicates the Treasury three-year
note may outperform two- and five-year securities as it
approaches the cheapest level since May 2009 before the  Federal
Open Market Committee  meets next week.  The index spread, which measures how the three-year note is
performing against the other two securities, is about negative
18 basis points, the cheapest level since May 2009. An advance
toward positive figures indicates investors are more bearish on
the middle of the three securities, making it relatively cheap
versus the others.  The Treasury Department is selling $21 billion of 10-year
debt tomorrow and $13 billion of 30-year bonds on July 12.  “The domestic economy has shown no signs of emerging from
the recent soft patch that we have been in, and  Europe  continues
to be a constant motivator of demand for Treasuries, keeping
yields low,”said Thomas Simons, a government-debt economist in
 New York  at Jefferies Group Inc., a primary dealer.
“Politicians move slower than any of us thought they would, and
that just prolongs the uncertainty, keeping fear constant and
rates low.”  Notes Auction  Three-year notes yielded 0.359 percent in pre-auction
trading, versus 0.387 percent the last time the notes were sold
on June 12.  Investors submitted orders for 3.53 times the amount of
available debt last month. The average over for the past 10
sales is 3.45.  Direct  bidders , non-primary dealers buying for their own
accounts, purchased 12 percent of the notes, the most since
November. Indirect  bidders , which include foreign central banks,
bought 27 percent of the securities, the least since May 2007.  Treasury trading  volume  reported yesterday by ICAP Plc, the
largest inter-dealer broker of U.S. government debt, dropped to
$146.3 billion, compared with a 2012 average of $242.2 billion.  The 10-year Treasury futures contract for September
delivery was little changed at 134 15/32 after reaching an all-
time high of 134 30/32 on June 1.  ‘Bullish Development’  The contract may rise to a fresh record should the price
remain above a level of so-called support,  Richard Adcock , head
of fixed-income technical strategy in  London  at UBS AG, a
primary dealer, wrote in an e-mailed note to clients today.  A break above yesterday’s 134 5/8 high “will be the next
bullish development, opening the door first to 134 30/32, then
the extension level at 135 13/32,” he wrote, citing Fibonacci
levels.  Support refers to an area on a graph where buy orders may
be grouped. Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory that
prices rise or fall by certain percentages after reaching a high
or low.  The Fed is scheduled to buy as much as $1.5 billion of
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities due from July 2018 to
February 2042 today, according to the Fed Bank of New York
 website , part of its plan to extend the maturity of its
holdings.  ‘Limited Amount’  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said the U.S.
central bank shouldn’t expand Operation Twist after the end of
2012.  “There’s a limited amount of short-term treasuries we can
sell and buy long-term treasuries, so I don’t think we can look
at any extension of twist beyond the end of the year,” Bullard
told reporters in London today. “We’re running out of balance
sheet.”  Money managers have been willing to buy conventional bonds
because of forecasts that inflation will stay in check, which
would make it easier for the Fed to increase its bond purchases
to fuel the economy.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity TIPS, a gauge of trader expectations for consumer
prices over the life of the debt, has narrowed to 2.08
percentage points from this year’s high of 2.45 percentage
points on March 20. The average over the past decade is 2.15
percentage points.  Producer Prices  Labor Department figures due on July 13 will show the U.S.
producer price index slid for a third month in June with a 0.4
percent decline, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Consumer prices were unchanged, after
falling 0.3 percent in May, a separate survey of economists
forecast before the July 17 report.  “The liquidity has been light over the last few days,”
said Justin Lederer, an interest-rate strategist in New York at
Cantor Fitzgerald LP, a primary dealer. “It’s the continued
risk-on, risk-off. If we get weak data, we could approach record
low yields.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  