-- Treasuries Rise on Auction Demand, Amid Europe Debt Crsis
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-07-10T21:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/treasury-3-year-note-auction-draws-strong-demand-on-haven-appeal.html
Treasury 10-year note yields
approached a record low as concern  Europe ’s financial woes are
weighing on U.S. growth led to higher-than-average demand at the
government’s auction of $32 billion in three-year notes.  Yields on the  benchmark security  for everything from
mortgages to corporate loans dropped below 1.5 percent for the
first time in a month. The three-year notes drew a  bid-to-cover 
ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the
amount of securities offered, of 3.52, compared with an average
of 3.45 for the past 10 sales. Tomorrow’s 10-year note auction
yield would be a record based on when-issued trading.  “We are seeing a capital-preservation trade where people
just want safe quality assets on their books, and are hunkering
down in fear until something changes,” said  Scott Graham , head
of government-bond trading in  Chicago  at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s BMO
Capital Markets unit, one of the 21 primary dealers required to
bid on the securities. “Europe continues to creep toward the
verge of complete mayhem and panic, with no end in sight. With
that outlook, things have to get worse before they get better.”  The yield on the  10-year note  fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.50 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched 1.4964
percent, the first time under 1.5 percent since June 4, after
reaching an all-time low of 1.44 percent on June 1. The 1.75
percent note due in May 2022 rose 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000
face amount, to 102 1/4.  The  30-year bond  yield fell two basis points to 2.60
percent. The yield on the current three-year note was little
changed at 0.35 percent.  Three-Year Auction  The three-year securities sold today, which mature in July
2015, drew a  yield  of 0.366 percent, compared with the average
forecast of 0.367 in a Bloomberg News survey of seven of the
Fed’s primary dealers.  Indirect bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 30 percent of the notes, compared with
an average of 35.5 percent for the past 10 sales.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 10.2 percent of
the notes at the sale, compared with an average of 9.9 percent
for the past 10 auctions.  Primary dealer  net outright position in U.S. government
securities due in three years or less before the auction was
$61.5 billion, down from a high of $73.2 billion in June,
according to Federal Reserve data. The average over the past
year is $34.5 billion.  ‘Decent Demand’  “The auction came and went and saw decent demand, as 36
basis points is meaningful in a world with diminishing safe
assets -- and increasingly negative yields on the ones that are
safe,” BMO’s Graham said.  The Treasury is selling $66 billion in notes and bonds this
week. The government will sell $21 billion in 10-year debt
tomorrow and $13 billion in 30-year securities on July 12. Ten-
year notes yielded 1.51 percent in pre-auction trading, which
would be a record low yield at a Treasury sale. The securities
were auctioned at a record low 1.622 percent at the June 13
sale.  Three-year notes have returned 0.3 percent this year,
compared with a 2.5 percent gain for Treasuries overall,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The three-
year securities returned 3.4 percent in 2011, while Treasuries
overall gained 9.8 percent.  A  butterfly-chart spread  indicates the Treasury three-year
note may outperform two- and five-year securities as it
approaches the cheapest level since May 2009 before the  Federal
Open Market Committee  meets next week.  Quantitative Easing  The index spread, which measures how the three-year note is
performing against the other two securities, is about negative
18 basis points, the cheapest level since May 2009. An advance
toward positive figures indicates investors are more bearish on
the middle of the three securities, making it relatively cheap
versus the others.  “The market remains unconvinced Europe is progressing in a
comprehensive and timely fashion,” wrote  Adrian Miller , a
fixed-income strategist at GMP Securities LLC in New York, in a
note to clients. “The likelihood of the Fed unveiling QE3
continues to increase with each passing soft data point.”  The Fed has purchased $2.3 billion of mortgage and Treasury
debt in two separate rounds of asset purchases intended to
stimulate the economy, known as quantitative easing. While
policy makers refrained from introducing a third round of
purchases last month, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated it
remains an option.  Spanish Banks  Yields on benchmark  10-year notes  declined today after  Bank
of England  Governor  Mervyn King ’s comments that the U.K. economy
doesn’t show “great signs” of recovering from recession
underscored the refuge aspect of U.S. securities.  Spanish bond yields fell below 7 percent after euro-region
finance chiefs meeting in Brussels agreed to  make available  30
billion euros ($37 billion) by the end of this month to shore up
 Spain ’s banks. The aim is to eventually use the region’s bailout
money to recapitalize banks directly instead of weighing the
government with the debts.  European governments will provide as much as 100 billion
euros in emergency loans to Spain’s banks and may move the costs
off the balance sheet of the government in  Madrid  to shield the
euro region’s fourth-largest economy.  “It’s amazing what’s going on with Treasuries and it’s all
being fueled by the flight to quality from Europe,” said  David Coard , head of fixed-income trading in New York at Williams
Capital Group, a brokerage for institutional investors. “Unless
there’s a real rally that causes yields to fall to levels that
people are uncomfortable with, the auctions should go well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  