-- Recession Reduced Top 1% Income While Raising Tax Rate
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-07-10T22:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/recession-reduced-top-1-income-while-raising-tax-rate.html
Before-tax income for the top 1
percent of U.S. households fell by 36.3 percent from 2007 to
2009 while their federal tax rate increased to 28.9 percent from
28.3 percent, according to a report by the  Congressional Budget
Office .  The  income gap  between the top 1 percent and the rest of
the  U.S. population  narrowed during the recession. In 2009, the
top 1 percent captured 13.4 percent of before-tax income, down
from 18.7 percent in 2007. That trend will probably reverse as
the economy recovers, said Alan Viard, a resident scholar at the
 American Enterprise Institute  in Washington, which supports
policies promoting individual opportunity.  “I’m pretty sure it would be a mistake to think that’s a
change in the trend,” he said. “I do think that this is a
business-cycle-related phenomenon.”  The shifts in  income distribution  and tax rates were
affected in part by changes in capital gains received by
taxpayers.  Capital gains  reported by all taxpayers decreased by
75 percent in the period, the nonpartisan CBO said in the report
released today. That means a greater share of earnings reported
by high-income households were taxed at ordinary income tax
rates of up to 35 percent rather than the 15 percent capital
gains rate.  Before-Tax Income  Because of the lower incomes, the share of federal taxes
paid by the top 1 percent dropped to 22.3 percent from 26.7
percent. In 2009, the average before-tax income of someone in
the top 1 percent was $1.2 million, down from $1.9 million two
years earlier.  President  Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans are
engaged in an election-year debate over whether to extend
expiring tax cuts for the top 2 percent of taxpayers.  Obama says married couples making more than $250,000 should
see their tax rates return to pre-2001 levels, while Republicans
want to extend for everyone the tax cuts first enacted under
President  George W. Bush .  The report said the combination of lower income and tax
cuts enacted to fight the recession drove down the average
federal tax rate for the population.  The average rate for 2009, including payroll, income,
corporate and excise taxes, was 17.4 percent, down from 18
percent in 2008 and 19.9 percent in 2007.  ‘False Claims’  “However much Republicans try to perpetuate false claims,
the facts speak for themselves: Tax rates have never been lower
than under President Obama,” said Representative  Sander Levin 
of Michigan, the top Democrat on the House Ways and Means
Committee, in a statement. “Instead of asking the very
wealthiest to contribute to  deficit reduction , Republicans are
doubling down on the Bush tax cuts by proposing massive new tax
breaks for the very wealthy.”  Republicans pointed to the income declines highlighted in
the report and said lower tax rates during a recession weren’t a
positive economic indicator.  “Under President Obama and the Democrats who control
Washington, Americans have lost their jobs, seen their wages
decline, and fallen into lower tax brackets,” Michelle Dimarob,
a spokeswoman for Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan
Republican and chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said in
a statement. “A weak economy and fewer jobs is nothing to cheer
about,” she said.  Since 2009, income has grown slowly for all U.S. households
while growing faster for high-income households, according to
the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  