-- Three Drinks Weekly May Halve Arthritis Risk, Study Says
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-07-10T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/three-drinks-weekly-may-halve-arthritis-risk-study-says.html
Moderate consumption of alcohol may
reduce the risk of developing rheumatoid arthritis, according to
a new study.  Women who regularly consume more than three alcoholic
drinks a week for at least 10 years have about half the risk of
developing arthritis compared with non-drinkers, according to a
 study  of 34,141 Swedish women by the Stockholm-based Karolinska
Institute. The reduced risk was consistent whether the
participants drank beer, wine or liquor.  The results, published yesterday in the British Medical
Journal, add to other studies that have observed positive
effects of moderate drinking. Men who have two drinks a day
after surviving a first heart attack have a lower risk of death
from  heart disease  than non-drinkers, Harvard researchers said
this year.  “These results are in accordance with the inverse
association between moderate alcohol consumption and risk of
cardiovascular disease and add to the evidence that moderate
alcohol consumption is not harmful,” the Swedish study authors,
including Alicja Wolk and Daniela Di Giuseppe, wrote in their
report.  The researchers collected detailed information about the
study participants’ drinking, diet, smoking history, physical
activity and education level in 1987 and again in 2007. The
subjects, born between 1914 and 1948, were tracked for seven
years from 2003 through 2009.  The effect on risk of arthritis may be explained by
alcohol’s ability to lower the body’s immune response, as
rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease in which the
immune system attacks the cells that line the joints, the
authors said.  The researchers said they weren’t able to evaluate the
effect of high doses of alcohol on risk of arthritis because of
the lack of heavy drinking participants.  The study was also supported by the Swedish Research
Council, in addition to the Karolinska Institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  