-- Republicans Offer Bill to Bar Backing for Future Solyndras
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-07-10T19:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/republicans-offer-bill-to-bar-u-s-backing-for-future-solyndras.html
House Republicans  investigating the
collapse of Solyndra LLC proposed legislation that would bar the
U.S. Energy Department from issuing any loan guarantees for
projects submitted this year or in the future.  The measure, which will be discussed by two House Energy
and Commerce Committee panels at a July 12 hearing, also
requires the Treasury Department to review U.S. financing for
applications submitted before Dec. 31, a response to concerns
among Republicans the Energy Department ignored “red flags”
about Solyndra.  The bill is the first offered by Republicans in the wake of
the Fremont,  California , solar-panel maker’s collapse two years
after receiving a $535 million loan guarantee.  The committee’s 17-month investigation found Solyndra’s
award was “driven by politics and ideology and divorced from
economic reality,” according to the legislation.  The bill will give “taxpayers the peace of mind that such
a disaster like Solyndra will never happen again,” said
Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican and chairman of
the committee, in an e-mailed statement.  The Obama administration and the Energy Department have
said Solyndra won the U.S. backing on the merits of its
application and have said the  Bush administration  also advanced
the loan. They said the company’s failure was caused by
unforeseen  market  shifts.  ‘Risk Inherent’  “There is a degree of risk inherent in helping new,
innovative technologies get off the ground,”  Damien LaVera , an
Energy Department spokesman, said in an e-mail. “But this
administration believes that just because there is risk here,
that doesn’t mean we should throw up our hands and cede the jobs
of the future to  China ,  Spain , or anywhere else.”  By prohibiting new loan guarantees for applications
received this year, Republicans would let two conditional
commitments to nuclear projects valued at more than $10 billion
to go forward.  The bill seeks more congressional oversight of such
programs, requiring the Energy secretary to disclose to the
House and Senate energy committees the terms of the guarantee
and the technology that’s being supported by the aid.  The Energy Department also must consult with Treasury if
the loan terms are restructured, and specifies that taxpayers
can’t take a back seat to private investors in case of
liquidation, which occurred as the Energy Department made a
last-minute effort to save Solyndra.  The Energy Department has about $34 billion in remaining
loan authority, according to the bill, which is called a
discussion draft and doesn’t have an official number.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at   jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  