-- RIM Said to Sell Jet to Help Save $1 Billion
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-07-10T21:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/rim-said-to-sell-jet-to-help-save-1-billion.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , which has
lost 95 percent of its market value since 2008, is selling one
of its two business jets under a plan to save $1 billion in
operating costs, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The maker of BlackBerry devices put its nine-passenger
 Dassault Aviation SA (DSY)  F50EX up for sale, trying to fetch $6
million to $7 million, one of the people said. The person
declined to be named because the sale hasn’t been completed.
Selling the midrange jet would leave RIM with one Dassault
F900EX, a longer-range aircraft that can fit 14 passengers, the
person said.  Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins, who answered
shareholders’ questions today at RIM’s annual shareholder
meeting, is trying to rein in costs as the company’s smartphones
fall out of favor and losses mount.  A 47 percent plunge  in U.S.
 sales  last year has left RIM increasingly dependent on markets
such as  Indonesia  and  South Africa , forcing its top executives
to roam further afield for sales growth. The company has offices
in at least 27 countries and sells phones in more than 175
markets.  “We’re looking at options with both our aircraft costs and
finding ways to reduce our travel while still making sure we
keep in close contact with our partners around the world,”
Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM said in a statement in response to
inquiries from Bloomberg. “It’s all part of the effort to find
ways to reduce costs and drive efficiencies that Thorsten Heins
has talked about.”  ‘Significant Efficiencies’  Heins has said he’s aiming to save $1 billion this fiscal
year through “significant efficiencies and operating cost
reductions.” That includes cutting 5,000 jobs, or about a third
of RIM’s workforce, and a number of manufacturing sites.  Vadim Feldzer, a spokesman for Paris-based Dassault’s
Falcon business, didn’t return phone calls seeking comment.  The F50EX typically costs about $2.1 million a year to run
based on an hourly flying cost of $3,400, according to  Bill de
Decker , founder and president of Arlington, Texas-based business
jet consulting firm Conklin & de Decker. The larger F900EX costs
about $2.2 million in annual operating costs.  The jet for sale was built in 1999, features beige leather
interior, “high gloss Swiss woodwork” and “gold-plated
hardware,” according to a sales brochure for the aircraft.  While the yearly savings RIM can expect from paring its
fleet is modest because it will now have to pay more for
commercial jet travel, such moves assume much greater importance
when the company is cutting jobs, de Decker said.  “With corporate aviation, the symbolism far outweighs the
dollars,” he said.  BB10 Delay  Shrinking sales, market share and profitability have shaken
investor faith in RIM’s stock, which has  lost  three-quarters of
its value in the past 12 months. The stock fell 5 percent to
$7.29 at the close in  New York .  The share performance has pushed Heins to intensify cost
cutting, even as he pours more resources into finishing the new
BlackBerry 10 operating system, RIM’s bet to compete with  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software.  Heins last month announced a delay of the first BB10 phone
until the first quarter of next year. That means the
introduction will be at least a year later than originally
expected.  Heins and key deputies such as Alec Saunders, head of
BlackBerry developer relations, have been crisscrossing the
globe to drum up support for the new BlackBerry platform and
current smartphone models. For distant markets, RIM’s remaining
Dassault F900 -- with a range of 4,500 miles (7,240 kilometers)
-- is a useful aircraft, said de Decker.  “They could say, ‘We believe our growth is in X, Y and Z,
and we’re keeping a long-range aircraft,’” he said. “And at
the same time, ‘We know we need to save money, so we’re going
from two aircraft down to one.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  