-- RIM Tries to Reassure Investors at Annual Meeting
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   D o m i n i c   C h u
-- 2012-07-10T20:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/rim-plans-to-start-blackberry-10-rollout-in-january.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , seeking to
reassure shareholders at their annual meeting today, reiterated
that it’s considering all strategic options for the company,
even as it pushes for a January release of the BlackBerry 10.  “We’re doing all our homework to understand what our
options are,” Chairwoman Barbara Stymiest told reporters at the
event in Waterloo, Ontario. “We are doing this in parallel with
delivering on BB10. Whatever happens will be the best of the
available options at the time.”  RIM faced combative questions today from shareholders, who
have seen the stock lose about 95 percent of its value since
peaking in 2008. In a packed auditorium, investors criticized
everything from Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins’s
million-dollar salary to the board’s lack of diversity to
technical glitches with the existing BlackBerry technology.  Vic Alboini, chairman of the Toronto-based investment firm
Jaguar Financial Corp., served as the company’s most vocal
critic, standing up twice to ask questions. He has called for
the company to be sold or broken up, and said today he was
disappointed not to hear about those possibilities. He has cited
Microsoft Corp. or International Business Machines Corp. as
potential buyers.  Alboini also called for changes to the board, which he
views as too insular. Shareholders did elect one new director
today, TPG Capital LP executive Timothy Dattels -- an addition
Alboini called “a step in the right direction.”  ‘Too Cozy’  “What this board is missing is more technologically savvy
expertise, marketing expertise and a little more transaction
expertise,” said Alboini, who declines to say how much RIM
stock he owns. “This is too cozy and clubby a board.”  RIM said last month that it would seek one or more
directors this year, and Stymiest said today that the company
has a search firm working to recruit board members. Four of
RIM’s 10 directors have joined in the past year, she said.  “That’s a huge amount of change,” Stymiest said.  The meeting was held at an auditorium at  Wilfrid Laurier
University , near RIM’s headquarters. Only water was served at
the event, which one investor during the meeting lauded as a
cost-cutting move.  Even so, the meeting did little to placate shareholders.
RIM’s stock fell 5 percent to $7.29 in New York, following a
decline of 5.3 percent yesterday. The shares have lost half
their value since the start of the year.  Apple, Google  RIM has failed to keep up with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
and the release of the BlackBerry 10 operating system -- a
linchpin of its comeback plan -- has been delayed twice. RIM
last month reported a first-quarter loss excluding restructuring
expenses that was more than five times bigger than what analysts
had predicted. Sales tumbled 43 percent to $2.8 billion, and the
company said it would cut 5,000 jobs -- about a third of its
workforce.  “I want to assure you I am not satisfied with the
performance of the company over the past year,” Heins said at
the meeting. “We are working around the clock to successfully
complete the transition path that we are on.”  RIM’s share of the global smartphone industry fell by more
than half to 6.4 percent in the first quarter, according to
research firm IDC. Google’s Android jumped to 59 percent, while
Apple accounted for 23 percent.  Withheld Votes  Shareholders approved all of RIM’s directors and a
nonbinding say-on-pay measure that the board had supported.
Still, some investors withheld votes for the directors -- a sign
of dissent, Alboini said. Almost 15 percent of votes for Heins
were withheld. The amount was 19.1 percent for  Mike Lazaridis ,
RIM’s previous co-CEO.  The company also said today that it was aiming to release
its first BlackBerry 10 phones in January, giving a more
specific time frame than its previous goal of the first quarter.  “My expectation is that in some countries we will be
launching in January,” Frank Boulben, RIM’s new chief marketing
officer, said in an interview before the meeting. “Will it be
three continents or five, five countries or 10? I don’t know the
specifics yet, but it will be multiple countries on multiple
continents.”  Boulben, who was hired for RIM’s top marketing job in May,
said that releasing the phone in January and not in the run-up
to the  holiday shopping season  means RIM won’t have to compete
with a flood of new handsets. Apple and other rivals are
expected to release new models later this year.  No Assurances  Still, Boulben said he couldn’t guarantee the January
timing for the first phone because wireless carriers’ testing of
the device could run late.  “The testing process of our carrier partners can take up
to eight, 10, 12 weeks,” said Boulben, a former executive at
French carrier Orange SA. “So we are also dependent on them.”  The company said last month that the first BB10 phone
wouldn’t be released until first quarter of 2013, an
announcement that sent the shares tumbling. At the time, RIM
wasn’t more specific.  The company doesn’t want to release the software before
it’s ready, Heins said today.  “BB10 is not just another OS -- it’s a whole new mobile
computing platform,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Dominic Chu in  New York  at 
 dchu16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  