-- Romanian June Inflation Quickens Less Than Forecast on Demand
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-07-10T07:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/romanian-june-inflation-quickens-less-than-forecast-on-demand.html
Romania ’s  inflation  accelerated less
than the central bank and economists estimated in June as weak
demand limited price increases.  The inflation rate rose to 2.04 percent, the first increase
in eight months, the Bucharest-based  National Statistics
Institute  said today by e-mail. The figure was below the 2.2
percent median estimate of eight economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Consumer prices fell 0.04 percent in the month.  Romania’s inflation outlook, which points to an increase in
prices by the end of the year from a record-low 1.8 percent in
May and political turmoil that caused the leu to tumble, have
prevented policy makers from cutting borrowing costs needed to
help the recession-hit economy on June 27.  “Going forward, we look for a moderate upward trend in
year-on-year inflation during the remainder of the year, with
year-end inflation reaching about 3.5 percent versus the central
bank’s most-recent forecast of 3.2 percent,” Citigroup
economists Ilker Domac and Gultekin Isiklar said today. “We
believe that the possibility of additional administrative price
adjustments, a weaker-than-expected leu and a reversal in food
prices are the key risk factors requiring close monitoring.”  The central bank  had expected  inflation to quicken to 2.3
percent at the end of the second quarter because of a
statistical base effect. It said the rate won’t exceed the 4
percent upper limit of its target range this year and end 2012
at 3.2 percent before slowing to 3 percent next year.  Food prices dropped 0.9 percent in June from a year
earlier, compared with a 2.1 percent drop in May, the institute
said. Price growth for non-food items slowed to 3 percent from a
year earlier, compared with 3.3 percent in May.  Service-price growth slowed to 5.8 percent from a year ago
from 6.2 percent in the previous month, the institute said.  Industrial output fell a seasonally adjusted 0.2 percent in
May from a year earlier, after it posted a 2.6 percent annual
increase in April, the Statistics Institute said today in a
separate release. Output shrank 0.6 percent on the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  