-- Romney and Obama Face Off in Swing-Voting States on Taxes
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-07-10T19:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/romney-and-obama-face-off-in-swing-voting-states-on-taxes.html
Mitt Romney  and President  Barack Obama  faced off from afar in two contested states over the
administration’s proposal to extend tax cuts for families making
less than $250,000 a year while letting rates rise for those
earning more.  Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee,
portrayed Obama’s proposal as a tax increase, instead of
maintaining the status quo for some.  “For job creators and small business, he announced a
massive tax increase,” Romney said today at a town hall-style 
event at Central High School in  Grand Junction ,  Colorado . “The 
very idea of raising taxes on small business and job creators at 
the very time we need more jobs is the sort of thing only an 
extreme liberal can come up with.”  About 1,000 miles to the east, in  Cedar Rapids ,  Iowa , Obama
accused Romney and congressional Republicans of holding middle-
class tax cuts “hostage” as a tactic to pressure Democrats to
extend tax cuts for wealthy Americans who don’t need the help.  “Why don’t you compromise?” Obama said, speaking at
Kirkwood  Community College . “Let’s agree when we can agree.”  “If Congress doesn’t act, that tax hike could cost up to
$2,200 for a family of four,” Obama said, and also “be a big
blow to our entire economy.”  Economic Arguments  Romney, speaking in a western Colorado community bordered
by rugged rock formations known as the Book Cliffs, said Obama’s
policies have hurt the nation’s economic recovery.  “This old-style liberalism of a bigger and bigger
government and bigger and bigger taxes has got to end and we
will end it in November,” he said.  Asked by a voter whether he would announce his vice
presidential running mate before the  Republican National
Convention  in Tampa in late August, Romney declined to say.  “I can’t give you the time-line for that,” he said.
“That’s a decision we will make down the road.”  Colorado and Iowa are among the roughly half-dozen states
where the two men are focusing their campaign time because
strategists from both parties see them as most likely to
determine the outcome of the Nov. 6 election.  Tax Plans  The president is asking Congress to pass a one-year
extension of tax cuts for married couples making less than
$250,000 a year in adjusted gross income and $200,000 for
individuals. The cuts were first enacted during President  George W. Bush ’s administration.  Romney and Republican congressional leaders favor
continuation of all the tax cuts, which are set to expire at
year’s end. In addition, Romney proposes further lowering
individual tax rates by 20 percent across the board.  Obama’s proposal, which he announced yesterday at the White
House, is aimed at highlighting his differences with Romney and
other Republicans. Obama has been telling voters at campaign
appearances that to pay for $5 trillion in proposed tax cuts,
Romney may have to eliminate  tax deductions  that middle-class
voters count on.  “This election will determine our economic future for the
next generation,” Obama said at the community college. “We
don’t need more top down economics.”  Out of Touch  The president’s pitch on taxes was paired with an effort to
depict Romney as a multi-millionaire who is out of touch with
the lives of most Americans. Obama and his allies have accused
Romney in recent days of hiding his fortune and refusing to
release multiple years of tax returns.  The Obama re-election team last night released an “Iowa
Report” that concludes Romney can say his proposed tax cuts
won’t add to the deficit only if the Republican candidate has
“a secret plan to raise taxes on middle-class Iowans.”  The report says Romney’s tax plans could affect 239,000
Iowa households with mortgages; 246,000 that make charitable
contributions; 289,000 that deduct state and local taxes; and
428,000 that aren’t taxed on health benefits through their
employers.  In Cedar Rapids, Obama stopped at the home of Jason and Ali
McLaughlin, a public school principal and account manager, and
is visiting Kirkwood Community College. The McLaughlins are
expecting their second child and had a combined  household income 
last year of $82,000, according to biographical information from
Obama’s campaign. If the tax cuts in question expired, the
couple would pay about $2,000 more in taxes, Obama’s campaign
said.  Poll Results  The tax debate comes as a Washington Post-ABC News  poll 
published today shows a deadlocked race. Romney and Obama are
tied at 47 percent among registered voters, essentially
unchanged from a late May survey.  Colorado and Iowa have a combined 15 Electoral College
votes of the 270 needed to win the White House, illustrating how
close a race the two campaigns are expecting. Iowa has fared
better during the recover with an  unemployment rate  of 5.1
percent in May. Colorado’s jobless rate was 8.1 percent. Obama
carried both states with 54 percent of the vote in 2008.  Romney’s stop in Mesa County, which includes Grand
Junction, is in keeping with his other visits in Colorado since
he became the presumptive nominee. Like his first two stops,
this one is in an area dominated by Republicans.  Mesa County backed Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the 2008
Republican nominee, over Obama, 64 percent to 34.5 percent.  Later today, Romney is also scheduled to visit  Colorado
Springs , on the eastern side of the  Rocky Mountains  in the
state. Obama, who declared the state a federal disaster area,
visited the city late last month to tour devastation from the
most destructive wildfire in the state’s history.  Jobless Figures  Romney has yet to campaign in parts of Colorado most likely
to determine the outcome in the state, including suburban areas
around Denver, the largest city.  The  unemployment rate  in Mesa County was 9 percent in May,
according to Colorado Department of Labor and Employment.  Romney is seeking to blunt the push in the state from
Democrats, who held their national convention in Denver four
years ago and have courted Colorado’s growing Hispanic
population.  Romney is scheduled to speak tomorrow in Houston at a
convention of the NAACP, the nation’s oldest civil rights
organization. The appearance presents a delicate setting for the
man seeking to defeat the nation’s first black president.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Grand Junction, Colorado at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Cedar Rapids, Iowa at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  