-- Russian Lawmakers Back Accession to World Trade Organization
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-07-10T13:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/russian-lawmakers-back-accession-to-world-trade-organization-1-.html
Russian lawmakers in the lower house
of parliament backed the country’s accession to the  World Trade
Organization , overcoming protests by opposition parties.  The measure passed in the 450-seat legislature, or the
 State Duma , by a vote of 238-208, with 1 abstaining. The upper
chamber is set to consider the bill on July 18 before it goes to
President  Vladimir Putin  for his signature.  Russia, the largest economy outside the WTO, has until July
23 to ratify the protocol for its entry and may join as soon as
next month after being invited to enter the organization in
December following 18 years of negotiations. The nation’s
membership would mark the biggest step in world trade
liberalization since China joined the Geneva-based group a
decade ago.  The Communist Party and the Just Russia opposition group
organized protests outside the Duma today, saying the accession
will hurt manufacturers and farmers. Activists carried banners
saying “Joining the WTO is the path to the abyss,” according
to a statement on the Communist Party’s  website .  Russia’s  Constitutional Court  rejected a challenge against
the ratification,  ruling  yesterday that the country’s accession
doesn’t violate the “constitutional foundations of the state.”  Russia may lose an estimated 188 billion rubles ($5.7
billion) next year and 257 billion rubles in 2014 from lower
 import duties  as a result of membership in the WTO, Economy
Minister Andrei Belousov said today. The government won the
right to channel as much as $9 billion a year in agricultural
subsidies, which exceeds the farming industry’s real needs,
Belousov said.  $162 Billion  Russia’s entry into the organization will add about $162
billion each year to economic output over the long term by
improving  market access  and luring foreign investment, the  World
Bank  said in March. WTO members carry out 97 percent of global
trade, according to the World Bank.  “We welcome the process and expect sizable gains from the
entry in the medium term, in particular further economic
liberalization,”  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research at BNP
Paribas in Moscow, wrote by e-mail after the vote. “However,
the first impact of the entry is likely to be negative as
competition with imported goods and services is likely to
substantially increase.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  