-- Syrian Opposition Urges Russia to End Its Support for Assad
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-07-11T15:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/russia-courts-syria-opposition-as-annan-pushes-for-power-sharing.html
Syria ’s main opposition group urged
 Russia  to end its support for President Bashar al-Assad’s
government and criticized Russia for deploying naval vessels to
the Middle Eastern country.  “We want a real break between Russia and the current
regime,” Burhan Ghalioun, a senior member of the Syrian
National Congress and its former leader, said during a news
conference in Moscow today after talks between an opposition
delegation and Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov . “You are
still arming a regime that is killing its own people.”  Russia, which has refused to halt existing weapons sales to
Syria, yesterday dispatched 11 military ships to the
Mediterranean, some bound for its naval resupply base in the
Syrian port of Tartus. Russia’s navy will deploy warships to
defend merchant shipping in case of a blockade of Syria, RIA
Novosti reported, citing Vyacheslav Dzirkaln, deputy head of the
Federal Service for Military-Technical Cooperation.  Russia and  China  have blocked United Nations sanctions over
Assad’s crackdown on a 17-month uprising in Syria. While Russia
won’t publicly abandon support for Assad, it’s trying to
pressure the opposition to agree to share power with elements of
the current government, said  Alexei Malashenko , a Middle East
analyst at the Carnegie Moscow Center.  “Russia understands that Assad’s days are numbered because
of the civil war and his steady loss of support,” Malashenko
said by phone. “Its main concern is to keep what it can of its
influence and preserve face.”  ‘Clinging to Assad’  Lavrov today met with a delegation led by Abdulbaset Seida,
the Syrian National Council’s new chief, after talks with Michel
Kilo, another opposition leader, on July 9. Russia isn’t
“clinging” to Assad and Syria should be left to decide his
fate, Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov said yesterday on
the ministry’s website.  The Syrian National Council reiterated demands that Assad
step down before it holds any transition talks. Russia has
proposed an alternative plan, Seida said after meeting Lavrov,
according to the Interfax news service.  The opposition group accused Russia of souring the
atmosphere of today’s talks by timing its naval deployment to
coincide with the arrival of the delegation.  “There’s no doubt that Russia supports the Syrian regime
and it’s making a mistake. This encourages the Syrian regime to
kill,” said Ghalioun. “It refuses a political solution and is
pursuing its military campaign as it knows it has  Iran  on one
side and Moscow on the other.”  Tehran Talks  UN envoy  Kofi Annan  held talks in Tehran yesterday to
enlist the help of Iran, another key Assad ally. World powers
endorsed a new proposal by Annan on June 30 to establish a
transitional government that may include representatives of the
opposition and Assad’s administration.  Russia, which has accused the U.S. and its allies of
seeking a forced ouster of Assad similar to the overthrow of
 Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi last year that cost billions of dollars
in Russian contracts, has vowed to prevent the repeat of such a
scenario.  The U.S.,  France  and the U.K. are insisting on a resolution
that empowers the  Security Council  to impose sanctions or
authorize military means to enforce its will. Russia opposes
such a measure.  The violence in Syria has claimed more than 17,000 lives,
including almost 4,500 members of the security forces, according
to Rami  Abdel Rahman , head of the Syrian Observatory for  Human
Rights .  ‘Tacit Support’  At talks in Damascus on July 9, Assad suggested a solution
to end the crisis that involves trying to contain the violence
in districts where clashes are particularly extreme and “step-
by-step, build up and end the violence across the country,”
Annan said yesterday.  “The likelihood of the Assad regime sticking to the plan
remains virtually non-existent and the divisions within the SNC
and the wider opposition movement are likely to prevent any
potential negotiations from succeeding,” said Jamie Ingram, a
London-based Middle East analyst at IHS Global Insight.
“Moscow is likely to continue holding a fairly steady line of
providing tacit support for Assad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  