-- Scranton Sued by Disabled Police Officers Over Payments
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-07-10T21:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/scranton-sued-by-disabled-police-officers-over-payments.html
Scranton,  Pennsylvania , was sued by
10 disabled police officers and firefighters who claim the city
cut their disability payments to minimum-wage levels.  The city “unilaterally” reduced benefits paid under the
state’s Heart and Lung Act without first giving the officers and
firefighters a hearing, according to the complaint filed today
in federal court in Scranton. The city isn’t bankrupt and should
be able to pay the workers, Thomas Jennings, a lawyer for the
group with Jennings Sigmond PC in Philadelphia, said in a phone
interview.  “This isn’t Stockton,” said Jennings, referring to the
California city, the biggest U.S. municipality to file for
bankruptcy. “This is a situation where they’ve run out of
political will.”  Scranton Mayor Christopher Doherty’s decision to cut
benefits defied a court order issued by Lackawanna County Court
Judge Michael Barrasse requiring payment of full wages, Jennings
said.  Doherty didn’t return calls seeking comment today. City
Council President Janet Evans said the mayor acted without the
council’s consent.  “City council is actively looking to providing financing
without the involvement of the local business community,” Evans
said in a phone interview, declining to elaborate. “Both the
mayor and council are in the process of trying to meet the
financial demands of 2012.”  Recovery Plan  Scranton has been in the state’s program for distressed
municipalities since 1992, and Doherty and the city council have
disagreed over the latest fiscal recovery plan. The impasse has
led to a delay in the city’s efforts to borrow $16.8 million to
cover its cash needs.  “It’s a disagreement on the budget and the future of the
city,” said Gerald Cross, executive director of the
Pennsylvania Economy League, the state-appointed consultant to
Scranton. “I think at some point, they can work it out.”  The city of 76,000, where 19 percent of residents live in
poverty compared with less than 14 percent nationwide, is about
125 miles (200 kilometers) north of Philadelphia.  Separately, three police officers and three public works
employees sued the city over claims they weren’t compensated for
overtime.  ‘Immediate Action’  The state’s community and economic development department,
which administers the distressed cities program, is working with
Scranton to resolve its situation, Steven Kratz, a spokesman for
the department, said in an e-mail.  “Immediate action is needed by the city to adopt an agreed
upon recovery plan that will restore confidence in the banking
community that will allow the city to borrow much needed
funds,” Kratz said.  The disabled workers’ case is Albert v. City of Scranton,
12-01333, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Pennsylvania
(Scranton). The overtime case is Reed v. City of Scranton,
12-01336, same court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  