-- SEC Poised to Vote on Broad Stock Surveillance System
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-07-10T14:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/sec-poised-to-vote-on-broad-stock-surveillance-system-this-week.html
The 32-year wait for a comprehensive
record-keeping system to monitor trading across U.S. equity and
options markets is approaching a conclusion.  The Securities and Exchange Commission is meeting tomorrow
to consider adopting a proposal issued three weeks after the
stock rout of May 6, 2010, to build a single system to track all
order and trading data. The so-called consolidated audit trail
will enable the reconstruction of market crises and analyze
trading on 13 equity exchanges, 10 options markets and more than
200 broker-dealers that execute stock away from public venues.  Momentum for the proposal increased after it took the SEC
and Commodity Futures Trading Commission five months to complete
a report on what became known as the flash crash, in which the
Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly plunged 9.2 percent. While
the CFTC needed several weeks to compile its data, a 20-person
SEC team spent three months collecting and processing quote and
trade data that arrived in different formats from exchanges and
brokers, according to Gregg Berman, senior adviser to the
director of the SEC’s division of trading and markets.  “This is very significant,” Edward Kwalwasser,  New York- 
based senior counsel at Proskauer Rose LLP and a former  New York 
Stock Exchange and SEC official who worked on the commission’s
market oversight and surveillance system known as MOSS in the
early 1980s, said in a telephone interview. “When we did MOSS
the technology wasn’t available to accomplish our ends. Today it
clearly is. This will give the SEC a real running start in being
able to surveil all the markets in a fair way.”  Monitoring Trading  Regulators currently keep tabs on the markets and monitor
trading using data collected in different formats. The
consolidated audit trail would be a centralized data hub that
captures “customer and order event information” throughout the
life cycle of a transaction, according to the proposal. An
aspect of the plan requiring data to be submitted to the
repository in real time was dropped in February after exchanges
and brokerages said it would be too costly and unnecessary for
enforcement actions that may take days or weeks to conduct.  The SEC will consider issuing a rule tomorrow instructing
the exchanges and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which
oversees about 4,400 brokers, to “develop, implement and
maintain a consolidated audit trail” for all equity securities
and options, according to a notice from the agency released July
6. The system will collect data “across all markets, from the
time of order inception through routing, cancellation,
modification or execution,” according to the statement.  Plan’s Roots  The roots of the plan go back to 1980 when Congress
authorized $12 million for the SEC to build a computer system to
oversee markets because legislators were concerned exchanges
were failing to do an adequate job monitoring trading,
Kwalwasser said. The pilot program was dropped when exchanges
and the predecessor organization to Finra established methods to
share information and meet surveillance duties such as
monitoring for suspicious activity and pursuing  insider trading .  “With the grilling the SEC took in front of Congress after
the flash crash, they didn’t want to have to rely on anybody
else -- they wanted to get information that was as complete as
possible themselves,” Kwalwasser said. The SEC is pursuing a
consolidated audit trail without claiming that the exchanges
“haven’t lived up to what they’re supposed to do, even though
trading has become harder to track,” he said.  Market Fragmentation  The supervision of equity and options markets has exploded
in complexity since the 1980s as regulations led to more venues
competing for quotes and trades while exchanges and Finra
installed systems to assemble order and transaction data for the
products they oversaw such as stocks listed on NYSE or  Nasdaq .
Abusive trading dispersed across multiple venues became harder
to track than activity centralized in one place. The New York
Stock Exchange accounted for 22 percent of  trading  in the
companies it lists last month, compared with  87 percent  in 1980,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and NYSE.  Once the exchanges and Finra present a national plan to
establish an audit trail, it will be subject to SEC approval
before being implemented. The agency estimated in its 2010
proposal that the exchange and brokerage industry would need to
spend $4 billion to set up the central repository and develop
related systems. Annual ongoing costs would be $2.1 billion.  Finra and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the operator of Nasdaq
Stock Market, each told the SEC last year that they could be the
technology processor for the audit trail. Finra gave the SEC a
 blueprint  in April 2011 for the timeline it would adopt to build
the record-keeping system on top of its current order audit
trail system, or OATS. Implementing the system for equities
would cost no more than $125 million, Finra said, not including
the expense of integrating options, bonds, swaps and other
products, which the SEC wants.  Nasdaq Comments  Nasdaq OMX told the SEC in a November 2011  letter  not to
“lower its expectations” by turning to a system such as OATS
that doesn’t meet the agency’s needs. The exchange operator said
it could build the system the SEC envisions. The exchanges and
Finra will be responsible for selecting the technology provider
or plan processor that would operate the repository for the
audit trail data, the SEC said in 2010.  Thomas Jordan, president and chief executive officer of
Jordan & Jordan, a New York-based firm specializing in
securities industry information and compliance issues, said he
hopes the exchanges and Finra will put out a request for
proposal to select the service provider that will be the plan
processor. More clarification is also needed on how the audit
trail initiative relates to the tracking system implemented to
monitor activity by brokers, high-frequency firms and asset
managers deemed large traders by the SEC, he said.  “It would be good for the SEC to be part of the creation
of the plan,” Jordan said in a phone interview. “I can’t
overemphasize how complicated creating this will be. If the SEC
stays involved and doesn’t just throw it over the wall, we could
get a stronger result. Maybe we could also come up with more
than one alternative and the SEC can choose among them.”  Jamie Selway , head of liquidity management at Investment
Technology Group Inc., a New York-based brokerage, said it’s
likely that governance of the national plan won’t be spelled out
at the SEC meeting. The issue is important to brokers who want a
say in how the system that compiles their data will use or
handle the information.  “We’re not expecting finality,” Selway said in a
telephone interview. “It’s a pretty good piece of policy that
we should have had a long time ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  