-- Senate Committee to Question Geithner, Bernanke on Libor
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-07-10T16:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/senate-committee-to-question-geithner-bernanke-on-libor.html
The Senate Banking Committee will
question U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on the scandal surrounding the
 London  interbank offered rate.  Committee Chairman  Tim Johnson  said in a statement that he
will question Geithner and Bernanke at regularly scheduled
hearings this month. Geithner is set to testify before the
banking committee on the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul act,
while Bernanke will deliver his semi-annual monetary policy
report. Johnson didn’t say whether he would have a separate
hearing on Libor, which is used as a benchmark for $360 trillion
in global securities.  Johnson’s panel joins the House Financial Services
Committee in seeking information on the scandal that prompted
Barclays Plc Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  to quit last
week after the U.K.’s second-biggest lender was fined a record
290 million pounds ($450 million) for attempting to rig interest
rates. At least a dozen banks are being investigated for
manipulating Libor.  “I am concerned by the growing allegations of potential
widespread manipulation of Libor and similar interbank rates by
some financial firms,” Johnson said in a statement. “At my
direction the committee staff has begun to schedule bipartisan
briefings with relevant parties to learn more about these
allegations and related enforcement actions.”  Letter to Dudley  Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican who
serves on the House Financial Services committee, sent a letter
to William C. Dudley, president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York , requesting transcripts of communications between the
district bank and Barclays relating to setting interbank offered
rates from August 2007 to November 2009. Neugebauer asked for
the documents by July 13 in the letter, which was dated
yesterday.  The New York Fed was aware of potential issues involving
Barclays and Libor after the financial crisis began in 2007 and
told authorities in the U.K., according to a statement from the
district bank.  “In the context of our market monitoring following the
onset of the financial crisis in late 2007, involving thousands
of calls and e-mails with market participants over a period of
many months, we received occasional anecdotal reports from
Barclays of problems with Libor,”  New York  Fed spokeswoman
Andrea Priest said in an e-mailed statement.  Following the rescue of Bear Stearns Cos. in March 2008,
“we made further inquiry of Barclays as to how Libor
submissions were being conducted,” the statement said. “We
subsequently shared our analysis and suggestions for reform of
Libor with the relevant authorities in the U.K.”  Fed Board  Joe Gagnon, a member of the Federal Reserve Board’s
Division of International Finance from 1999 to 2008, said the
central bank’s  Washington  staff also began an informal inquiry
into Libor in 2007.  “We were hearing these reports about how accurate the data
were, and we looked into it,” Gagnon said in an interview. “It
wasn’t a formal investigation. We talked to people in the
markets.”  Libor is calculated from a daily survey carried out for the
 British Bankers Association  in London, in which the world’s
biggest lenders are asked the rate they’re charged to borrow
over a variety of short-term maturities in currencies including
dollars, euros and yen. Banks are accused of low-balling
submissions for the benchmark during the financial crisis.  Gagnon said Fed staff raised questions about whether
reporting banks would be able to borrow large amounts at the
reported rate, as opposed to a scale of rates as might occur in
a normal market. Gagnon said the Fed staff also discussed the
issue with the British Bankers Association. Gagnon is currently
a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in Washington.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  