-- Serbs May Need Debt Reschedule, Write-Off, Economist Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-07-10T14:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/serbs-may-need-debt-reschedule-write-off-stamenkovic-says-1-.html
Serbia may need to ask the
 International Monetary Fund  to allow the Balkan country to
reschedule or write off debts, said Stojan Stamenkovic, the
chief economist at the state Economics Institute.  “Based on global conditions and the ratio between debt
levels and capital inflows, we could find ourselves in a
situation to ask for debt rescheduling and a write-off, and it
is very probable that it will be discussed with the IMF,”
Stamenkovic said in Belgrade today. “Of course, no creditor
would agree to debt rescheduling without an IMF agreement.”  Serbia’s 10-year Eurobond, maturing in 2021, fell to as low
as $99.554 at 4:08 p.m. Belgrade time, or $3.74 lower than the
previous day’s close.  Serbia has been struggling to stay out of a new recession
and attract outside investment as political leaders squabble
over power sharing following May 6 elections. The country’s
debt-servicing ratio, the share of maturing principal and
interest to export revenue, has exceeded 30 percent and over the
next three years it will rise to 35 percent, the level where
debt repayments become difficult, Stamenkovic told a news
conference.  The external debt totaled 24.188 billion euros ($29.7
billion) at the end of May, or 63 million euros higher than
December 2011. Exports stood at 9.5 billion euros for all of
2011.  Safe Finances  Branko Drcelic, the head of  Serbia ’s Debt Management
Agency, sought to reassure investors after the comments, saying
Serbia’s public finances are safe.  “Serbia’s external and internal debts are not threatened
and we have repaid more than 60 percent of our debts this year
so far to creditors,” Drcelic said in a phone interview today.
“There is nothing that threatens Serbia’s public finances for
now and the Republic of Serbia will regularly honor all its
external and internal public debt liabilities.”  Drcelic said Serbia’s foreign exchange reserves, at 10.17
billion euros at the end of May “are sufficient for stable
external liquidity.”  Still, Stamenkovic said Serbia faces a similar situation as
it did in 1982, during the breakup of the former  Yugoslavia .  Then, it “could no longer service its debts and it had to
turn to the IMF for a program and eventually asked for debt
rescheduling,” Stamenkovic said.  ‘Complex’ Reforms  Asking for debts to be “rescheduled and partially
forgiven” will give Serbia time to institute “complex” public
sector reforms, Miladin Kovacevic, the deputy head of the
Serbian Statistics Office, said at the same news conference.  The proposal should be part of a three-step plan, to be
discussed with the IMF, which includes immediate measures to
tackle debts and deficits, followed by “comprehensive public
sector reforms,” he said.  Serbia will need to ask the IMF for a new loan to support
the balance of payments and the dinar, instead of simply
renegotiating a $1.3 billion precautionary program, which was
suspended in February when the country began slipping on agreed
fiscal targets, Kovacevic said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  