-- Serbia Will Probably Leave Rates Steady as It Offers Cash
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-07-10T12:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/serbia-will-probably-leave-rates-steady-as-it-offers-cash.html
Serbia’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark  interest rate  on hold after raising it last
month and offer banks cash to ease a liquidity strain and
support the sluggish economy.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije will leave its  two-
week repurchase rate  at 10 percent at a meeting on July 12,
following a half-point increase on June 7, according to 12 of 23
economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Two expect a quarter-point
rate rise and nine a half-point boost, according to the survey.  With the euro region slipping toward a recession amid
budget-cutting austerity measures and a flare-up of the debt
crisis, governments across  Europe  have been putting off rate
increases and considering easing to help their struggling
economies.  “The central bank should not raise the rate again
considering the overall economic situation,” said Jasna Atanasijevic, chief economist at the Belgrade-based Hypo Alpe
Adria AD bank. “Besides, they are expected to launch direct
repo operations and they will need time for a market reaction
before deciding to raise the rate again.”  Serbia ’s gross domestic product shrank 1.3 percent in the
first quarter while the fiscal gap widened to 7.3 percent of GDP
in April and public debt reached at 51.1 percent of GDP at the
end of March, exceeding the government’s self-imposed 45 percent
limit. Inflation accelerated to 3.9 percent in May from a 30-
year low of 2.7 percent in April.  Political Turmoil  Serbia’s central bank has urged lawmakers to quickly form a
government following inconclusive May 6 general elections to
trim the budget gap and limit public debt. Such moves would help
avoid a further weakening of the dinar and make room to reduce
interest rates to spur an economic recovery, bank officials have
said.  The dinar is the fifth-worst performing currency among the
178 tracked by Bloomberg worldwide since the elections, falling
3 percent against the euro. It traded at 115.2498 per euro at
1:30 p.m. in Belgrade.  The central bank raised its main rate in June amid signs
that import prices were spurring inflation. It also tightened
reserve-requirement rules to drain liquidity from the market
because of depreciation pressures on the dinar and the
government’s fiscal expansion that saw the five-month  budget
deficit  widen 80 percent from a year ago.  The bank is expected to shift toward more active liquidity
management in July by offering banks cash via direct repo
operations for the first time since inflation targeting was
introduced in August 2006. For six years, the central bank used
repo operations to drain excess liquidity from banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  