-- Serbian Parties to Sign Accord to Form Coalition Government
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-07-10T12:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/serbian-parties-to-sign-accord-to-form-coalition-government.html
Three Serbian political groups will
sign a pact today paving the way for a new coalition government
to take office later this month and put an end to the stalemate
after inconclusive elections.  The Progressive Party of President  Tomislav Nikolic , the
Socialists of Prime Minister Designate Ivica Dacic and the
United Regions of Serbia of former Deputy Prime Minister  Mladjan Dinkic , will sign the coalition agreement at 5 p.m. in Belgrade
today, the Progressives said in an e-mail. The three groups will
together control 131 of parliament’s 250 seats.  The Socialist party is trying to form a new Cabinet by the
end of July as the country needs to adopt austerity measures to
curb the burgeoning fiscal deficit and public debt. It is taking
power for the first time since the ousting of founder  Slobodan
Milosevic , blamed for fomenting the 1990s Balkan civil wars that
destroyed the economy.  A quarter of Serbia’s labor force is unemployed and the
economy needs new jobs to avoid a second recession in three
years. Gross domestic product shrank 1.3 percent in the first
quarter.  Nikolic gave Dacic the mandate on June 28 to form a
Cabinet, after the  Democratic Party  of former president  Boris
Tadic  failed to find allies for a government. No party won an
outright majority in the May 6 vote.  Fitch, IMF  Serbia needs to form a government quickly to ease concern
about a worsening fiscal outlook as the economy falters,
according to  Fitch Ratings . It also must to resume talks with
the  International Monetary Fund  over a $1.3 billion
precautionary loan, suspended earlier this year when Serbia
began slipping on fiscal targets.  The budget gap widened to 7.3 percent of GDP in March,
compared with a 4.25 percent target agreed with the IMF. Public
debt rose to 52.1 percent of GDP in April, exceeding the 45
percent limit set by fiscal rules, while the current account
deficit of 17 percent at the end of April was double the full-
year target.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net ;
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  