-- Shootout Makes Land Disputes Vietnam’s Priority: Southeast Asia
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-11T05:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/shootout-makes-land-disputes-vietnam-s-priority-southeast-asia.html
First came the police and men in
uniforms, then the beatings and the bulldozers, said Nguyen Thi
Kiem. Within hours, her home and 165 others had been razed --
four generations of rice farms reduced to flattened earth.  “They came and forced us off,” said Kiem of the police
and other officials who ejected residents of her village on the
outskirts of Hanoi on April 24 to make way for a new suburb.
“That is my home they are taking away. Now I have nothing.”  Five weeks later, Kiem had joined hundreds of other evicted
farmers from around the country to camp in the rain outside
government offices in the capital, fighting land clearances they
don’t understand and that are often beset by allegations of
corruption or unfair compensation. The protests have become a
priority for Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung, superseding labor
strikes, rising prices and bankruptcies that have pulled the
currency down 20 percent in four years.  “It’s the key issue, it’s well overtaken inflation and the
decline of the dong which have dominated since the financial
crisis,” said Carlyle Thayer, a professor at the Australian
Defense Force Academy in Canberra, who has studied Vietnamese
politics for 45 years. “Investors’ concern should be about
general destabilization. The confrontations have picked up.”  The prime minister said land management was inadequate and
called for a national review of procedures after a dispute in
the northern city of Haiphong ended in violence, the government
said on Feb. 10 on its  website . Fish farmer Doan Van Vuon and
family members shot six police officers and detonated a landmine
at his home on Jan. 5 as local authorities tried to expel them,
according to the government’s website.  Labor Strikes  Land disputes are another setback for the ruling Communist
Party after the fastest inflation in  Asia  last year sparked
labor strikes at local units or suppliers of  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,
 Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and  Adidas AG. (ADS)  Economic  growth  was below 4.5
percent for the first two quarters, the weakest since 2009,
while the  stock market  has slid 17 percent from its May 8 peak
this year.  “As a core constituency for the Communist Party, the
farmers can make the Politburo pretty anxious,” said Ernest Bower, director of the  Southeast Asia  program at the Center for
Strategic & International Studies in  Washington . “The explosive
land dispute near Haiphong earlier this year gives the Party
real heartburn. It’s a no-win situation politically. They must
move forward with development to support their
competitiveness.”  The social and economic turmoil contributed to a 28 percent
decline in foreign direct investment in the first half of 2012
from a year earlier. As wage costs rise in China, Vietnam is
competing with  Cambodia ,  Indonesia  and other Southeast Asian
nations to attract manufacturers looking for cheaper production.  Timber Sale  Tran Ngoc Anh, 46, traveled 1,700 kilometers in May to
Hanoi from the southern coastal province of Ba Ria Vung Tau to
fight against the seizure of her family’s land two decades ago.
She says she started protesting in 2001 after discovering the
local officials leased some of the land to a state timber
company and sold lots to other households.  Anh says she was beaten by police and jailed after she
tried to set herself alight in 2009 outside the prime minister’s
residence “to show him the pain citizens have to suffer.”  Prime Minister Dung ordered government agencies to resolve
all 500 outstanding land complaints this year, Nguyen Sinh Hung,
the National Assembly chairman, told lawmakers in Hanoi on June
13. About 80 percent of all complaints filed to the government
are related to land disputes, Hung said. The Ministry of  Foreign
Affairs  said in a faxed response to questions that it had “no
knowledge” of any abuse of protesters involved in land
disputes.  Property Boom  Many confrontations are over compensation in a market where
average asking prices for high-end condominiums in Hanoi more
than tripled since 2004, according to data from the Vietnam unit
of  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG) , the world’s biggest commercial property
broker.  Compensation for land clearances was the most pressing
issue for Vietnam’s provincial governments, according to a 2010
survey cited by the World Bank, with more than 80 percent of
respondents dissatisfied with the way it was calculated.  “The land laws are inadequate to deal with Vietnam’s
rapidly changing  property market ,” said Eddy Malesky, an
associate professor in the Graduate School of International
Relations and Pacific Studies at  University of California ,  San
Diego . “There is just no way they can make the price the
government makes decisions on, and compensates people on, keep
up with market pricing.”  The land that once produced rice for Kiem and her neighbors
in Hung Yen province is slated for the next stage of  Ecopark , a
suburb of 20,000 villas and apartments, with schools, shops and
a golf course on an area larger than  New York ’s Central Park.  Rising Offer  Kiem, 60, said she was initially offered the equivalent of
$2.63 per square meter, with the price rising three times to
$7.18.  “They can’t force us to take it,” she said outside the
Central Propaganda Committee for Citizens in Hanoi. “That price
is too low and then they sell it for 100 times that.”  Apartments to be built at Ecopark were offered at a minimum
$886 per square meter in a promotion for early buyers in May
last year, according to the website. Viet Hung Urban Development
& Investment JSC, Ecopark’s developer, declined to answer
questions on the project.  The company will pay as much as 200 billion dong in total
to families that volunteer to hand over land in villages near
Kiem’s for the project, Lao Dong newspaper reported today,
citing the developer. The cash, a supplement to the money
villagers would receive from land clearance compensation, is
intended to help 2,397 households resettle their assets and
crops, according to the report.  The  World Bank  says the failure of some projects to provide
clear and adequate compensation raises the cost of development
and increases risk for investors.  “Major shortcomings in the compensation rate have led to
the delay of projects, pushing the infrastructure investment
rate too high,” the World Bank said on its  website . “Lawsuits
cause prolonged social instability and reduce the attractiveness
of the investment environment in Vietnam.”  Vietnam’s land protests mirror similar incidents in China,
said Thayer at the ADFA in Canberra, part of New South Wales
University.  China Disputes  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in December that China
“can no longer sacrifice farmers’ land ownership rights,” the
Xinhua News Agency reported. Strikes, demonstrations and other
protests in  China  doubled to at least 180,000 in 2010 from 2006,
according to Sun Liping, a sociology professor at Beijing’s
Tsinghua University. Land disputes are the leading cause of
social unrest in China, an official study said last year.  “Vietnam looks very, very carefully at what’s occurring in
China,” Thayer said.  Still, China’s ability to evict citizens to build roads,
dams and factories helped fuel the country’s rapid economic
development in the past two decades, said Adam McCarty, chief
economist at  Mekong Economics  in Hanoi.  “In China, in three years they can get a big
infrastructure project done and finished and any households in
the way get brushed aside,” McCarty said. “In  Vietnam  it is
far more complicated and slow.”  --Nick Heath. With assistance from Nguyen Kieu Giang, Diep Ngoc
Pham, Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen and K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi. Editors: Adam
Majendie, Lars Klemming  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  