-- Singapore Collects S$93 Million in 1st-Half Casino Entry Levies
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-07-10T07:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/singapore-collects-s-93-million-in-1st-half-casino-entry-levies.html
Singapore collected S$93 million
($73 million) from entry levies placed on locals visiting the
city’s two casinos in the first half, according to Josephine Teo,
minister of state for the  Finance Ministry .  The entrance fee of S$100 a day or S$2,000 annually from
citizens and permanent residents amounted to S$195 million in
2011, Teo said in Parliament. The government also collected more
from the two casino-resort operators,  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  and
 Genting Singapore Plc (GENS) , with the net gain in  tax revenue 
amounting to S$900 million in fiscal 2010 and S$1.1 billion the
following year, she said.  “The casino operators have made more money, but at the
same time it contributed to our tax revenues,” Teo said.
“Through these tax revenues, the government is able to provide
support to Singaporeans in many areas and expand our
resources.”  Teo’s comments, in response to a query from a lawmaker,
comes as the government is seeking public feedback to strengthen
its Casino Control Act to further control criminal activities,
improve social safeguards and tax administration.  The proposed changes include limiting visits by “local,
financially vulnerable patrons who visit the casinos
frequently” and raising the maximum penalty imposed on casinos
that flout the law to 10 percent of gaming revenue from the
existing limit of S$1 million, according to a  document  posted on
the government’s public consultation website.  The government has more than doubled its spending in the
past two years to contain problem gambling, Teo said today. The
levies aren’t directly “ring-fenced” to finance such programs,
she said.  Exclusion List  About 93,000 people are on a so-called exclusion list where
they’re prevented from entering the two casinos, she said.
Punters who make six to 10 casino visits a month are considered
“high frequency gamblers” and are estimated to number 4,000 to
6,000, the Sunday Times reported, citing Chan Chun Sing, acting
community development minister.  Singapore added 15,000 citizens and residents to its list
of 28,000 people banned from the city-state’s two casinos in
June amid concerns that low-income gamblers are betting larger
amounts at the gaming resorts.  The island-city dropped its four-decade ban on casinos to
boost tourism, with Las Vegas Sands and Genting Singapore
spending more than $10 billion on two gaming resorts that opened
in 2010. Gross domestic product growth, visitor arrivals and
visitor spending reached record highs that year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  