-- South Korea Adds Workers as Jobless Rate Unchanged
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-07-10T23:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/south-korea-adds-workers-as-jobless-rate-unchanged.html
South Korea ’s workforce expanded
last month, with the  unemployment rate  unchanged from May as
jobs increased in sectors including health care and education.  The  jobless rate  was at 3.2 percent in June, unchanged from
May, Statistics  Korea  said today in Gwacheon, south of  Seoul .
The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 10 economists
was for a rate of 3.3 percent. The number of employed people
increased by 365,000, or 1.5 percent, to 25.1 million last month
from a year earlier.  South Korea’s government and central bank cut growth
forecasts for this year citing a protracted  European debt crisis 
even as domestic demand buoyed hiring. There’s a possibility
policy makers will cut the benchmark rate a quarter percentage
point to 3 percent tomorrow to boost confidence, Morgan Stanley
said in a report this week.  “Going forward we see more downside risks to job growth
due to external headwinds and a weak domestic economy,” Chang Jae Chul, an economist at Citigroup Global Markets Korea
Securities in Seoul, said before the release. “However, the
government recently announced that its top priority in the
second half will be employment stability.”  The  Bank of Korea  will probably keep the benchmark rate at
3.25 percent for a 13th month tomorrow, according to 13 out of
15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Two predict a 25 basis
point cut.  The won slid for a third day yesterday in Seoul, falling
0.2 percent to 1143.75 per dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The benchmark Kospi stock index fell 0.4 percent.  The seasonally unadjusted jobless rate was at 3.2 percent
in June, compared with 3.1 percent in May, today’s report
showed.  South Korean manufacturers’ confidence fell to the lowest
level in four months for July, according to a report last month.
Gross domestic product may expand 3.3 percent this year, less
than a December estimate of 3.7 percent, the  Finance Ministry 
said June 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  