-- South Africa Cricketer Mark Boucher Retires After Eye Injury
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-10T13:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/south-africa-s-boucher-out-of-england-tour-following-eye-injury.html
South Africa  wicketkeeper Mark Boucher announced his retirement from international cricket, one
day after his left eye was damaged in a game.  Boucher, 35, underwent surgery last night after a dislodged
bail cut the white area of his eye during the opening day of
South Africa’s match against Somerset in Taunton. He leaves the
game with 999 international dismissals across the sport’s three
formats.  “It is with sadness, and in some pain, that I make this
announcement,” Boucher said in a  statement . “Due to the
severity of my eye injury, I will not be able to play
international cricket again.”  Boucher said in March he might retire from the
international game after touring  England . He’ll now return home
after three hours of surgery on his eye. The Proteas begin a
three-match Test series against top-ranked England on July 19 at
the Oval in  London .  “I had prepared for this U.K. tour as well, if not better
than I have prepared for any tour in my career,” he said. “I
had never anticipated announcing my retirement now, but
circumstances have dictated differently. I wish the team well in
the U.K. as I head onto a road of uncertain recovery.”  Boucher had a record 555 dismissals from 147 Tests during
an international career that began against  Pakistan  in 1997. He
also had 424 one-day dismissals, second to the 472 recorded by
 Australia ’s Adam Gilchrist.  “For the 14 years of your international career, you have
been a true Proteas warrior, a patriotic South African, a
fighter who asks nothing and gives everything,” captain  Graeme Smith  said in a statement. “The fighting spirit you brought to
the team remains with us.”  Team selectors said they’ll name Boucher’s replacement
tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  