-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Italy (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-07-10T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-italy-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to  Italy :  On July 9, 2012, the Executive Board of the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation
with Italy.  Background
Italy’s economy entered recession in late 2011. GDP contracted
for a third consecutive quarter, by 0.8 percent quarter-on-quarter
in Q1 2012, led by sharp falls in consumption and investment.  Exports also fell, along with the slowdown in global demand, but
net exports contributed positively to growth due to sharp import
compression. Household real disposable income continued to decline
in 2011, and the  unemployment rate  reached 10.1 percent in May 2012,
with youth unemployment at 36 percent. The external current account
deficit narrowed from 3½ percent of GDP in 2010 to around 2¾ percent
of GDP in the year to Q1 2012. Inflation increased to 2.9 percent
in 2011, and further to 3.6 percent year-on-year in June mainly
because of non-core components.  The economy is expected to continue contracting through the year
owing to tight financial conditions, the global slowdown, and the
needed fiscal consolidation. Absent shocks, the recovery will take
hold in early 2013, led by a modest pickup in exports, but will lag
the rest of the region. Inflation will ease only gradually, as the
impact of weak demand is partly offset by higher indirect taxes.  The risks to the outlook are however on the downside, stemming mainly
from an intensification of the euro area crisis. Over the medium term,
low trend productivity and an aging society are likely to constrain
Italy’s growth prospects. The steady loss in competitiveness over the
past decade, if remained unaddressed, will remain a drag on growth.  The overall fiscal deficit continued to improve from 4.5 percent of
GDP in 2010 to 3.9 percent of GDP in 2011, in line with the authorities’
target. In response to financial pressures in the second half of 2011,
the authorities enacted three fiscal consolidation packages, bringing
the total adjustment for 2012-14 to around 5 percent of GDP.
As part of the consolidation, the pension system was strengthened
further. In April, the Parliament approved a structural  balanced
budget  rule in the constitution which is set to take effect in 2014
and legislated the creation of a fiscal council. Also, in April, the
government embarked on a new spending review to identify
expenditure cuts that would replace the need to increase VAT rates
in October.  The financial turmoil has put banks under stress. Credit ratings for
several banks were cut in late 2011 and again in 2012, and remain on
a negative outlook. With limited access to wholesale markets and higher
funding costs, Italian banks have relied heavily on Eurosystem support.
Banks have made progress in strengthening their capital positions and
raising private capital to meet their EBA targets. Gross impaired loans
have risen to 11 percent in 2011, from less than 6 percent before the
crisis, and banks’ exposure to the sovereign has also increased.  Higher funding costs and tighter lending standards, especially for smaller
firms, have pushed up corporate borrowing rates.
The government has embarked on wide-ranging structural reforms to boost
productivity and potential growth. Important progress is being made in
product market reforms. Parliament in March passed a comprehensive
liberalization package that covered key sectors and strengthened the
enforcement of competition rules. Administrative simplification reforms,
which should lower the cost of doing business, were also approved.  Parliament has also passed a labor market reform bill aimed at making
the labor market more inclusive and flexible. The bill promotes
open-ended and apprenticeship contracts for young workers, makes
 unemployment insurance  more universal, and facilitates hiring by
reducing the cost of dismissal. Progress has also been made on
strengthening the anti-corruption legal framework.  Executive Board Assessment
Executive Directors commended the Italian authorities for launching
an ambitious policy agenda to secure fiscal sustainability and promote
growth. The economic and financial situation nevertheless remains
challenging, with downside risks to the outlook. Directors emphasized
the importance of maintaining strong policies and the momentum for
reforms. To revive growth, priority should be given to raising
productivity and labor participation, pursuing growth-friendly
fiscal consolidation, and promoting a more dynamic and resilient
banking system. Sustained implementation of this agenda needs to be
supported by continued progress at the European level in strengthening
the currency union.  Directors acknowledged the important steps taken towards deregulating
the service sector and making the labor market more flexible and
inclusive. They welcomed the passage of the labor market reform bill
which promotes open-ended contracts and makes unemployment
insurance more universal. Further action will be necessary to bridge
the gap between permanent and temporary workers, raise female labor
participation, and better match wages to productivity via greater
wage setting decentralization. In the area of product markets,
priority should be given to accelerating reforms in the energy and
services sectors. Directors also encouraged the authorities to take
steps to improve the investment climate and reduce the cost of doing
business. They welcomed efforts to enhance the efficiency of the judicial
system.  Directors commended the authorities for initiating a sizeable fiscal
adjustment. They welcomed the increased focus on targeting a structural
balance to ensure flexibility in fiscal policy. Directors encouraged
the authorities to rebalance the adjustment towards expenditure cuts
and lower taxes. The recently announced package of spending cuts is a
step in the right direction. Directors looked forward to the swift
follow-up on the ongoing spending review to help reduce the overall
level of government spending and improve its quality. They saw scope for
cutting the public sector wage bill, reducing tax expenditures, and
stepping up efforts against  tax evasion . This would create space for
growth-supporting measures to reduce the labor tax wedge and encourage
investment.  Directors emphasized that locking in prudent medium-term policies to
reduce the high level of public debt would further improve confidence.
They welcomed the important progress in the pension reform, the
introduction of a new constitutional structural balanced budget rule,
and the creation of the fiscal council. Directors saw the recent plan
to sell public assets to reduce public debt as a positive first step
and stressed the need to pursue more comprehensive privatization.  Directors recognized the strengths of the Italian banking system but
concurred that banks need to maintain adequate capital and liquidity
buffers to remain resilient to the downturn.  They noted that reducing impaired loans would free up resources for
new lending and strengthen banks’ balance sheets. In this context,
they saw scope for improving the efficiency of bankruptcy proceedings
and out-of-court workouts to support corporate restructuring.  Statement by the Staff Representative on Italy Executive Board Meeting  July 9, 2012  This statement provides additional information on policy actions  in Italy since the Article IV mission complementing the staff  report (SM/12/152). The additional information does not change  the thrust of the staff appraisal.  Recent macroeconomic developments. Recent macroeconomic data point  to continued contraction in Q2 2012, in line with staff’s  projections. The unemployment rate came down from 10.2 percent in  April to 10.1 percent in May, reflecting a 0.3 percent increase  in employment. However, retail sales fell significantly in April,  bringing the annual decline to about 7 percent, and business and  consumer confidence  indicators remained at low levels through June.  Bankruptcy and civil justice reforms and other growth measures.  A decree law on growth measures entered into effect on June 26.  It includes modifications to the bankruptcy regime, such as a new  tax provision on deductibility of losses which would facilitate  financing of companies in distress. In civil justice, the decree  aims to speed up the judicial process by streamlining appeals  procedures. In addition, the decree provides for favorable tax  treatment for project bonds to promote private-public partnerships,  extends tax incentives in infrastructure and construction, amends  the VAT regime for real estate leases and sales, and introduces  new debt financing instruments for non-listed companies to improve  their access to  capital markets .  Bank recapitalization. On June 26, the Council of Ministers  approved measures to increase the capital base of Banca Monte  dei Paschi (MPS), Italy’s third largest commercial bank.  The state support of up to €3.9 billion, which includes a  replacement of €1.9 billion provided in 2009, will help MPS  meet the target of 9 percent core Tier 1 ratio as determined  by the European Banking Authority (EBA).  Labor market reform. On June 27, the parliament approved the  labor market reform law, largely in line with the government’s  proposal submitted in April. Among the modifications introduced  is the extension of tax incentives for firm-level bargaining,  a minimum remuneration for some temporary contracts, and some  increase in flexibility for firms to use temporary and  apprenticeship contracts.  Statement by Arrigo Sadun, Executive Director for Italy
July 9, 2012
1. Recent Developments
Facing intensive pressure from financial markets as the  European
debt crisis  intensified in the middle of last year, Italy had no
choice but to enact multiple rounds of austerity measures that
have impacted negatively growth and employment. Against this
background, the top priorities of the new government are achieving
a lasting consolidation of public finances and restoring growth
by addressing its structural weaknesses. The domestic strategy
founds its necessary complement in relentless efforts to promote
an effective response to the debt crisis at the European level.
The structural reforms introduced in the past few months and those
planned will produce tangible benefits in the years ahead, but in
the short term could hardly be expected to spur aggregate demand.
Economic activity continued to contract throughout the first
quarter of 2012, while a modest recovery is expected in the second
part of the year. The recovery will be led by exports as domestic
demand will continue to lag behind the business cycle.  Private consumption and investments should contribute positively to
GDP growth in 2013 as the growth-dampening effects of the austerity
measures wear off and real disposable income recovers.  Inflation in the first half of the year was somewhat higher than
the European average; this reflected mostly the spike in energy
prices and the increase in the VAT. However,  core inflation  remains
at 2.2 percent because of sluggish demand and restrains in wage
rates.  Wages in the public sector have been frozen for the past two years
and have been significantly reduced for senior officers.  2. A Balanced Budget
On fiscal policy, the goal is to balance the budget in structural
terms and to put the debt on a declining path by 2013. The measures
enacted in the last 12 months represent a fiscal adjustment of about
5 percent of GDP and they aim to reduce the deficit from 3.9 percent
in 2011 to 1.7 percent this year and to 0.5 percent in 2013.
In structural terms, the deficit is expected to decline from 3.6
percent in 2011 to 0.4 percent this year and to achieve a surplus
of 0.6 percent in 2013. The principle of a balanced budget has been
enshrined in the Italian Constitution, in line with the commitments
undertaken in the framework of the European Fiscal Compact.  In the short term, the bulk of the fiscal adjustment is taking place
through tax increases; however, efforts were made to make fiscal
consolidation as growth friendly as possible.  Thus, the burden has been placed on consumption and property taxes.
VAT rates were increased and a real estate tax abolished by the
previous governments has been reinstated.  Conversely, taxes have been reduced for companies hiring new employees
and on capital investments in order to support economic growth.  Further fiscal consolidation measures are expected through spending
cuts; a comprehensive spending review has been launched with the
objectives of reducing the overall level of  government spending  and
improving its quality. The spending review broadens the efforts made
in the past few years to curb current expenditures. Wages in the public
sector have been frozen since 2010, while those of senior officials
were cut by 10 percent.  Debt Reduction
Despite challenging economic conditions, the government remains firmly
committed to reducing public debt to a more manageable level through
the achievement of consistent primary surpluses. A structural primary
surplus of more than 1 percent was reached last year; this year,
the authorities expect it to increase to well above 4 percent and
to stabilize around 6 percent from 2013 onward. Accordingly, the
debt should start to decline as of next year, one year ahead of the
staff projections, and should reach the 114.4 percent level by 2015.
It would not be the first time that the country managed to reduce the
Debt to-GDP ratio despite very slow growth, thanks to sizeable primary
surpluses. To accelerate the path of debt reduction, the government
is also looking at the possibility of disposing of some of its most
liquid assets, including stocks of state-owned companies.  New initiatives are also scheduled to establish companies, trusts,
or real estate funds for the development and sale of public real
estate properties. Obviously, its high debt level makes the country
vulnerable to external shocks. However, the debt sustainability is
ensured even under the relatively pessimistic assumptions used
in the sensitivity analysis in the Stability Programme. In fact,
assuming a 0.5 percent reduction in GDP growth or higher interest
rates of 100 b.p. with respect to the baseline, the debt-to-GDP
ratio is projected to decline by 2014 at the latest. It would take
rather extreme assumptions such as the staff scenario of permanent
no-growth and an increase in interest rates of 100 b.p. to push the
debt toward 140 percent of GDP.  The Spending Review
The need to frontload the fiscal adjustment has led to an increase
in fiscal pressure; however, in the medium term, the goal of reducing
public debt will rely increasingly on the reduction of current
expenditure. Accordingly, the government has embarked on a comprehensive
spending review that aims to reduce the overall level of government
spending and to improve its quality, focusing on key areas.
Thus, the previous approach of imposing linear cuts across the board
has been replaced by an analytical assessment of needed resources.
All areas of government spending are under review, with top priorities
identified in the budget of key central agencies and local
governments.  The Reforms Agenda
Since the Reforms Agenda is supported by all major political
forces, the government has been able to move expeditiously on a
wide range of areas, starting with the completion of the Pension
System reform. This will increase the  retirement age  to the highest
level in  Europe  and it will ensure its sustainability in the
long term.
In June, Parliament approved a long-delayed reform of the labor
market aimed at increasing productivity, creating more jobs, and
ultimately boosting growth. The reform reduces some of the rigidities
of the labor market as well as the disparities between overprotected
traditional jobs and limited benefits for new entrants while providing
for a universal unemployment insurance system. It also provides
greater flexibility to employers to adjust working hours and
employment levels according to the business cycle. These changes are
balanced by the introduction of a universal unemployment insurance
benefit to which all companies will contribute. Under the new scheme,
 unemployment benefits  will be extended to a much larger segment of the
workforce, including workers with relatively shorter tenures.
The reform also introduces a faster, out-of-court procedure to handle
labor disputes in case of dismissal for economic or other objective
reasons.
The reform also strengthens active labor market policies by
facilitating youngsters to enter the  labor force , by widening the
use of apprenticeship contracts, and by retraining those who have
lost their jobs.  Restoring Growth and Competitiveness
Even before the global crisis hit hard the Italian economy, its
performance had been lagging behind those of other European countries
for more than a decade, as a result of a slow adjustment to the new
international specialization of labor brought about by the
globalization and deep-seated structural rigidities.
Economic activity was hampered by deteriorated competitiveness and
low productivity growth. The current government came to power last
winter with the double mandate of addressing the fiscal crisis with
urgent measures and of implementing long-delayed structural measures
necessary in order to boost both growth and employment.
Some of the reforms that aim to streamline and modernize the Pension,
Judicial and Administrative Systems are also expected to improve
the efficiency of the economy. Specific measures to boost growth have
recently been submitted to Parliament in the so-called
“Sviluppo Italia” package.
These include initiatives to improve the business environment
(a reduction of the tax wedge on labor, notably in the case of
employment of women and young workers; the re-funding of the
guarantee fund for SMEs; the simplification of the incentives
scheme for enterprises; the redesign and extension of tax incentives
on building renovations and energy efficiency investments; and the
introduction of substantial tax benefits for companies’
recapitalization).  A wide array of measures has been introduced to increase competition
in key product and services markets, including the liberalization
of professional services, the distribution sector, the transportation
sector, and the network industries. Of particular importance are
the planned liberalizations in the energy sector with the
breaking-up of the vertically integrated cartel in the gas and
electricity sectors.  The government is seeking to expedite investment in key infrastructure
projects by facilitating the participation of private capital in
public investment, by reducing the administrative burden, and by
coordinating regional programs co-financed by EU structural funds.
Furthermore, in order to ease the financial pressures of government
suppliers, measures have been taken to accelerate the disbursement
of approved payments.  The Financial Sector
Throughout the global and debt crisis, the Italian banking system
has remained broadly resilient, reflecting a sound business model
(retail funding accounts for about 85 percent of the total bank loans),
prudent risk management practices, and effective supervision.
Italian banks faced the crisis without the over-extended leveraging of
most of their peers and without large exposure to inflated real estate
markets or Program countries. However, two recessions in three years
and the intensification of the European debt crisis last summer have
taken their toll; access to wholesale markets deteriorated and
funding costs rose in the second half of last year. Credit growth
declined and the quality of loans worsened.  Funding pressures have eased considerably in recent months as
result of the ECB LTRO operations. For the 32 banking groups covered
by the weekly liquidity monitoring by Banca d’Italia, LTRO funding is
sufficient to meet in full those bonds held by institutional investors
that come due in the next two years.  During 2011 Italian banks have significantly strengthened their capital
base, mostly by tapping private markets. For the five largest
banking groups (covering about 70 percent of total consolidated assets),
the core tier 1 capital ratio increased from less than 6 percent
in 2007 to 9.5 percent by March 2012; this compares to an average
of slightly above 10 percent for the euro area.  To meet the EBA Recommendations, four of the largest banks have
strengthened their capital position by about €15 billion by the
end-June. Half of this amount has been raised by the largest bank
through the issuance of new equity; the rest by a combination of
measures, including asset disposal, retained earnings and, in one
case, by issuing recapitalization bonds subscribed by the government.  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  