-- STMicro Inside Volkswagen Is Next Best Thing for Chipmaker: Tech
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d ,   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-07-11T13:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/stmicro-inside-volkswagen-is-next-best-thing-for-chipmaker-tech.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM) ,  Europe ’s
biggest chipmaker, whose shares have slumped more than 70
percent since  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone triggered  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s decline,
is betting its future on cars.  Even with plummeting business from struggling customers in
the wireless industry such as Nokia and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ,
Chief Executive Officer  Carlo Bozotti  said Asian demand for
luxury cars loaded with semiconductors will boost sales. Every
new car produced last year contained at least 25 automotive
chips, with some models carrying more than 100, he said in an
interview.  As Geneva-based STMicroelectronics and  Germany ’s Infineon
Technology AG tie their future more closely to the automotive
industry, they are developing semiconductors and sensors that
boost engine power, monitor speed and correct steering when cars
veer off designated lanes. The car-chip market will expand to
more than $33 billion by 2016 from $23 billion last year, with
 China  growing 17.7 percent each year, London-based researcher
Strategy Analytics said.  STMicroelectronics is “carrying a dead leg, which is the
wireless business,” said  Lee Simpson , a Jefferies International
analyst. “If you’re a European semiconductor company and you
can supply to the German  auto industry  directly, or to other
European carmakers, you have a better tie, while the European
handset space is disappearing.”  German Cars  In the first quarter, STMicroelectronics had an operating
loss of $352 million, of which $293 million stemmed from chips
for mobile phones. In contrast, operating profit in the cars
business was $37 million. The company’s top client in the
automotive industry is Germany’s Robert Bosch GmbH, the world’s
largest automotive supplier, with clients such as  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,
 Daimler AG (DAI) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   “The car industry, and especially the German one, is
benefiting from appetite in  Asia  for high-quality cars,” said
Bozotti, who has an electronic engineering degree from the
 University in Pavia, Italy  and took over as CEO in 2005. “Car
manufacturers also use more and more electronic components to
slash costs and make cars more intelligent. We benefit twice.”  There is plenty of room for growth in the car-chip market
because no one yet dominates it. STMicroelectronics ranked third
in the market for automotive chips with a 9 percent share,
compared with 14 percent for market leader  Renesas Electronics
Corp. (6723) , which is based in Kawasaki,  Japan , according to  Strategy
Analytics . The researcher predicts the car-chip market in  North
America  will grow 8.1 percent each year and 6.1 percent in
Europe.  Nokia Cuts  Infineon, the second-largest supplier, whose customers
include  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , last year opened
manufacturing and research facilities in Beijing to address
multiple markets, including automotive. Neubiberg, Germany-based
Infineon in May raised its full-year forecast after quarterly
profit topped analyst estimates. It boosted its market share in
the automotive-chip segment by one percentage point to 9.8
percent over the past year.  STMicroelectronics’s sales to Nokia fell 30 percent in 2011
to $1 billion, less than half the $2.1 billion it sold to the
Finnish mobile-phone manufacturer four years earlier, according
to data published in the chipmaker’s annual reports.  Last month, Nokia forecast a wider second-quarter operating
loss from handsets and said it would cut as many as 10,000 jobs
as it ceded market share to iPhones and handsets by  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  Since the iPhone’s introduction in 2007, Nokia
shares have fallen 93 percent, while STMicroelectronoics dropped
72 percent.  Ericsson Venture  STMicroelectronics, which has the French and Italian
governments as its main shareholders, together holding a 27.5
percent stake, dropped 1.6 percent to 3.95 euros as of 3:19 p.m.
in Paris, while Infineon fell 2 percent to 5.17 euros in
 Frankfurt .  Other top mobile clients of STMicroelectronics such as
BlackBerry maker Research In Motion and  France ’s  Alcatel-Lucent
SA (ALU)  also posted lower sales and operating losses for the three
months through March. ST-Ericsson, STMicroelectronics’ mobile-
phone chip venture with Ericsson AB, said in April it will
eliminate 1,700 jobs. The venture hasn’t turned profitable since
being formed in 2009.  China Slowdown  Still, the European chipmakers’ bet on strong Asian demand
leading the car market has risks.  Auto demand in China, the world’s largest vehicle market,
has slowed with the economy. More Chinese cities may also
restrict vehicle ownership after Guangzhou this month imposed a
quota on new cars to control congestion and pollution, which
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. predicts will threaten sales growth
of carmakers such as  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Volkswagen that
depend on growth in Asia to counter declining demand in Europe.  China’s automakers’ association said today that passenger-
car deliveries in June rose 16 percent to 1.28 million units
after a 23 percent gain in May. Figures for both May and June
last year were hurt by disruption from the Japan earthquake. In
the first five months, passenger-car sales increased 5.5 percent
to 6.33 million units after growth of 6.1 percent a year
earlier.  Bozotti said STMicroelectronics’s growth rate of 18 percent
at the car division last year is “not sustainable.” Instead,
revenue from that segment will increase between 5 percent and 10
percent this year and going forward, he said.  While the global economic slowdown is also affecting
STMicroelectronics’s revenue from cars, which declined to $391
million in the first quarter from $433 a year earlier, Bernd Laux, a Frankfurt-based analyst at  Credit Agricole , said the
focus on car semiconductors will pay out in the long term.  “There’s enduring growth from the car industry because
more and more semiconductors make their way into cars, and that
is only going to speed up with the spread of hybrid and electric
cars,” he said. “That trend, even when it’s tied to demand
cycles, will make sure demand will keep going up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  