-- Sudan Crude Stuck Off Singapore Shows Trade as War Victim
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i   a n d   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-07-11T19:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/sudan-crude-stuck-off-singapore-shows-trade-as-war-victim.html
More than 15 miles offshore
Singapore a black-and-red hulled tanker has been stranded for
about 150 days holding South Sudanese crude worth almost $60
million, a hostage of a two-decade war.  South Sudan  says its northern neighbor stole the shipment
on the ETC Isis and about 2 million barrels more.  Sudan  says it
had the right to sell the oil. The feud over the cargoes, worth
more than seven days of the South’s annual economic output, has
entangled lawyers in  London , shipowners in Cairo, buyers in
 Japan , dealers in the British Virgin Islands and Trafigura
Beheer BV, the world’s third-biggest oil trader.  The dispute underscores the difference between the physical
commodities market, where prices and identities of buyers and
sellers are typically kept private, and the regulated exchanges
of  Wall Street  and London, where investors deal in futures and
options representing billions of barrels of crude every day.
It’s in the buying and selling of the world’s 84 million barrels
of daily oil output, far from the financial markets at least 14
times bigger, that trading and war collide.  “You have this dispute between two parties over the oil
and the tanker is now stuck in no-man’s land,” said Mark Tan, a
partner at law firm  Watson, Farley & Williams  in  Singapore  who
has more than 14 years’ experience in dispute resolution and
heads the shipping litigation practice. “It’s always better to
be cautious about what you’re carrying. Sometimes a cargo can be
trouble.”  So far no legal claims regarding the ETC Isis have been
filed in London or Singapore, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sudan Splits  The disagreement originated in the civil war that engulfed
 Sudan . After 22 years of fighting that ended in 2005, the East
African nation split in July 2011, with the South taking over 75
percent of the country’s 470,000 barrels a day of crude output
and the North controlling the pipelines and facilities needed to
send it abroad. The two sides have since been at loggerheads
over how much the South should pay to use that infrastructure.  Sudan said it would seize the oil until there’s an
agreement with its southern neighbor over the payment of
pipeline fees, al-Obeid Murawih, a foreign ministry spokesman,
told reporters on Jan. 18. In retaliation, the South shut
production.  African Union-mediated talks have failed to yield an
agreement. Negotiations resumed last month in the Ethiopian
capital,  Addis Ababa , after breaking down in April as a border
conflict brought the two countries to the brink of war.  Oil Dependence  South Sudan earned 80 percent of its gross domestic product
from oil in 2010, more than any other country, according to the
 World Bank . More than half the population lives below the
poverty line, its data shows.  Dar Blend crude is produced in the Melut Basin and piped
850 miles (1,400 kilometers) north across Sudan to the  Red Sea 
for export, according to the U.S.  Department of Energy . It was
there that the ETC Isis cargo was loaded for the 4,100 nautical-
mile journey to Singapore, according to Osama Sefary, the
general manager of Egyptian Tanker Co., which owns the vessel.  “There is a dispute over the cargo, and until this dispute
is sorted out the ship will remain there in Singapore,” Sefary
said in a telephone interview from Cairo on April 23. The tanker
was chartered by Trafigura, he said. The trader hired the ETC
Isis in January for a journey from Sudan to  Asia , according to
three shipping reports from companies including Poten & Partners
Inc. and Galbraith’s Ltd.  A Trafigura spokesman in Amsterdam declined to comment in a
July 4 e-mail.  ‘Stolen’ Oil  The cargo off Singapore, Asia’s oil-trading hub, is one of
four the South claims have been stolen, three of Dar Blend and
one of Nile Blend. That’s about 2.6 million barrels and worth
almost 2 percent of the country’s $13.2 billion gross domestic
product, according to  World Bank  figures.  The ETC Isis has been anchored since it arrived in
February, according to Sefary. Sudan Petroleum Corp., the
northern country’s state-oil company known as SPC, ordered about
600,000 barrels of the crude onto the tanker on Jan. 30,
according to documents provided by  Pagan Amum , the South’s chief
negotiator with Sudan.  Petrodar Operating Co. , one of two pipeline operators in
Sudan, initially refused orders from the North to load the ETC
Isis, according to a letter from the company to SPC, saying the
oil belonged to South Sudan.  ‘Not Acceptable’  “This action is certainly not acceptable as the crude
belongs to Republic of South Sudan government and prior approval
from RSS is therefore needed,” Liu Yingcai, the then president
of Petrodar, said in a Jan. 30 letter to oil-ministry officials
in both countries.  The crude still made it on to the tanker, Barnaba Marial Benjamin, a spokesman for the South Sudanese government, said in
a March 27 interview in Juba, the capital. Petrodar didn’t
respond to e-mails requesting comment and was unreachable at its
phone number in Juba.  Two other ships, the Sea Sky and Al-Nouf, were loaded with
a total of more than 1.3 million barrels of the “stolen” Dar
Blend in January, according to a Jan. 20 letter from South
Sudan’s Ministry of Justice. The tankers, chartered by SPC, were
also anchored fully-laden offshore  Port Sudan , said a port agent
and a shipping-company official who asked not to be identified
because they aren’t authorized to speak to the media.  London Courts  The dispute over a fourth cargo, delivered by Trafigura to
JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp., Japan’s largest refiner, ended up
in a London court.  The oil, loaded on the tanker Ratna Shradha, discharged at
Kiire in Japan at the end of February, according to an April 5
court filing in the case at the London  High Court  of Justice
that was part of a suit brought by the ship’s owner, Chambal
Fertilisers and Chemicals Ltd. The 630,000 barrel cargo of Nile
Blend was sold by Trafigura’s Singapore unit to JX Nippon,
according to the court filing.  The proceeds from that sale were frozen in escrow by the
court pending a ruling on the rightful owner of the cargo,
according to the court documents. JX Nippon deposited its
payment of almost 58 million euros ($72 million) with the court
in March, the documents show.  SPC originally sold the crude to  Delaney Petroleum , a
British Virgin Islands-based oil trader, which then resold the
shipment to Trafigura on the same day, according to the
documents. Trafigura Maritime Ventures Ltd., an Athens-based
unit of the company, chartered the Ratna Shradha to carry the
cargo from Sudan to Kiire. The low-sulfur grade is prized in
Japan as clean-burning power-generation fuel.  Discounted Cargo  Sudan sold the disputed oil below market prices because it
knew it was stolen, according to Benjamin, the spokesman for the
South Sudanese government.  “There was already a legal notice that oil had been
stolen, so they had to dispose of it as quickly as possible,”
he said.  Delaney bought the crude loaded on the Ratna Shradha at $5
a barrel below the price of  Indonesia ’s benchmark Minas crude,
according to the sales contract obtained by Bloomberg. The deal
was confirmed by Ali Ahmed Mohamed, the acting marketing manager
at SPC, in an April 2 phone interview from Khartoum. By
comparison, a cargo for January had earlier traded at $2.50 to
$3 a barrel above Minas, according to two people with knowledge
of the deal who asked not to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to speak to the media.  A person who answered a call by Bloomberg to Delaney’s
offices in Dubai on March 30 said the company didn’t want to
comment. Officials at Delaney also didn’t respond to two e-
mails, a fax and telephone messages sent through July 4.  Paper Market  An average of about 1.2 billion barrels a day of oil has
traded this year in so-called paper transactions on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and ICE Futures  Europe  in London. That
compares with the world’s actual production of about 83.6
million barrels a day, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review
of World Energy.  “The paper markets are staggeringly huge,” said Eugene
Lindell, a senior oil-market analyst at JBC Energy GmbH in
Vienna. “This number dwarfs global physical-crude production.”  Brent crude prices have dropped 6.7 percent this year as
the  European debt crisis  and slowing growth in  China  and the
U.S. threaten to curb fuel demand even as international
sanctions targeting  Iran ’s oil revenue tighten supplies. Futures
for August settlement closed at $100.23 a barrel today.  Cargo Costs  As it waits to dock, the ETC Isis is probably racking up
tens of thousands of dollars a day in fees and fuel costs.  The cost could be estimated by adding the daily rate for
renting a similar-sized ship to the price of about five tons of
fuel per day to keep the crude heated, said Dag Rommen, a master
mariner and former ship manager who practiced maritime law from
1992 to 2005 and is now chief of executive officer of  Rommen Pte
Ltd.  in Singapore.  The average rate for an Aframax ship such as the ETC Isis
has been about $8,645 a day so far this year, according to
Baltic Exchange Time Charter Equivalent  data . The price of
bunker, or 380-centistoke  fuel oil , has averaged $685 a ton,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  For the ETC Isis, that’s about $1.8 million to go nowhere
for 147 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net ;
Jared Ferrie in Juba at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  