-- Sugar Traders in Brazil Favor the Port of Santos Over Parangua
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-10T13:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/sugar-traders-in-brazil-favor-the-port-of-santos-over-parangua.html
Sugar traders in top producer  Brazil 
want to ship from the country’s biggest port of Santos as
second-ranking Parangua is contending with the largest delivery
of the sweetener since 2009, according to Kingsman SA.  Copersucar SA, Cargill Inc. and ED&F Man Holdings Ltd. took
delivery of about 1.1. million metric tons of raw sugar after
the expiry of the July contract on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .
Most of the sweetener will be delivered at Paranagua, according
to ICE data. Vessels at that port were waiting to load 982,132
tons of sugar as of July 6, according to Unimar Agenciamentos
Maritimos Ltda., a shipping agency in Santos. That compares with
404,850 tons on June 29, prior to the delivery, the data showed.  “The main receiver has already nominated over 600,000
tons,” Lausanne, Switzerland-based broker and researcher
Kingsman said in a report e-mailed today, commenting on the
scheduling of vessels to ship the sugar delivered on ICE.
“Traders are keen to swap Paranagua for Santos to be able to
ship in bigger vessels and obtain earlier loading dates.”  Ships of the same size loading at Santos can take more
cargo than in Paranagua because of the relative draft limits,
according to Stephen Baldey, London-based director of O.P.
Secretan LLP, a specialist in sugar shipbroking. Draft is the
depth at which a ship can sit in the water.  Vessels at the port of Santos were waiting to load 1.98
million metric tons of sugar as of July 6, according to Unimar
data. That is less than the 2.28 million tons on June 29, prior
to the New York futures expiry, the data showed.  Traders also favor Santos because the port has more sugar
terminals and is able to load more per day, Nicolle de Castro, a
commercial assistant at Santos, Brazil-based consultancy SA
Commodities, said by phone today. The port of Santos can load as
much as 185,800 tons of raw sugar a day, while Paranagua’s
capacity is limited at 61,000 tons a day, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  