-- Cocoa Falls on Demand Concerns; Sugar Drops; Coffee, Cotton Gain
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-07-10T19:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/sugar-advances-for-third-day-as-weather-fuels-supply-concern.html
Cocoa futures fell on speculation
that  Europe ’s sagging economy will limit chocolate consumption.
Sugar and orange juice also dropped. Coffee and cotton advanced.  “Poor margins and fears of weakening consumer demand”
signal a drop of as much as 7 percent in European cocoa grinding
in the second quarter, R.J. O’Brien said in a report. The dollar
rose to a five-week high against a basket of currencies, eroding
the appeal of some commodities as alternative assets.  “Worries about demand coming out of Europe and the
stronger dollar are the biggest factors” driving cocoa lower,
John Caruso, a senior broker at R.J. O’Brien in  Chicago , said in
a telephone interview.  Cocoa for September delivery declined 0.5 percent to settle
at $2,307 a metric ton at 12:05 p.m. on ICE Futures in New York.
The price has climbed 9.4 percent this year on concern that
heavy rains in West Africa, the world’s top growing region, may
curb output.  The European Cocoa Association will release grinding data
on July 12, and the  National Confectioners Association  will
publish North American figures on July 19.  Raw-sugar futures for October delivery fell 0.9 percent to
22.49 cents a pound on ICE, the first drop in three sessions.
Earlier, the sweetener reached 23.05 cents, the highest for a
most-active contract since April 13.  Orange-juice futures for September delivery slid 0.6
percent to $1.282 a pound, the first loss in five sessions.  Arabica-coffee futures for September delivery advanced 1.2
percent to $1.845 a pound, the second straight gain.  Prices have been supported as the weather phenomenon El
Nino is bringing adverse weather to Brazil and  Colombia , the
world’s top producers of arabica beans,  Societe Generale  said
today in an e-mailed report. “Initial production estimates
continue to look optimistic with room for downgrades,” the bank
said.  Also in  New York , cotton futures for December delivery
increased less than 0.1 percent to 70.72 cents a pound.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  