-- Tsunami Cities Fight Nuclear Elites to Create Green Jobs
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2012-07-10T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/tsunami-cities-fight-nuclear-elites-to-create-green-jobs.html
Rikuzentakata, like many cities on
 Japan ’s rugged northeast Pacific coast, was in decline even
before last year’s tsunami killed 1,700 of its 24,000
inhabitants and destroyed most of its downtown buildings.  With two-thirds of the remaining residents homeless, Mayor
Futoshi Toba questioned whether the city could recover,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its August issue. Damage
to infrastructure and the economy, he said, would force people
to move away to find jobs.  Sixteen months later, the city is trying to rebuild in a
way that Toba says would reinvent the region and provide a model
to overcome obstacles that have hobbled the Japanese economy for
more than 20 years: the fastest-aging population in the
developed world, loss of manufacturing competitiveness to  China 
and  South Korea  and reliance on imported fossil fuels.  Rikuzentakata is part of a government program to create one
of the country’s first so-called ecocities.  They would be smaller and more self-sufficient and would
lower costs through technology and create new jobs in renewable
energy to replace those lost to the decline of agriculture and
fisheries.  Toba says Japan must address the depopulation of rural
areas that has coincided with agriculture’s shrinking role in
the broader economy -- from about 6 percent in the 1970s to 1.4
percent today -- and it must do so as soon as possible.  “It’s a race against time,” he says.  ‘Super-Aging Society’  Ecocities can lead the way, says Hideaki Miyata, an
engineering professor at the  University of Tokyo  who’s advising
local officials on the project.  “We can provide a solution for Japan’s super-aging
society,” he says. “Younger people were already leaving these
cities, but what we’re planning to do here will provide new jobs
and factories.”  That’s essential, says Kiyoshi Murakami, an executive at
BNY Mellon Asset Management Japan Ltd. who grew up in
Rikuzentakata and also advises Toba.  “For the ecocity, its impact on employment is the most
important thing,” he says.  After the tsunami, which reached as high as the fourth
story on the city’s seafront hospital, Rikuzentakata joined
forces with neighboring Ofunato and Sumita in the Kesen
district.  They applied for aid under the national government’s
FutureCity program, which has an annual budget of about 1
billion yen ($12.5 million) to create blueprints for urban
development that promotes environmental protection and clean-
energy use.  Clean Energy  The goal of the Kesen project is to generate at least 50
percent of the region’s electricity through solar and other
renewable-energy sources, reducing Kesen’s near-total dependence
on  Tohoku Electric Power Co. (9506) , Japan’s fifth-largest utility, and
lowering electricity costs for the area’s 67,000 residents.  Planners say they hope to attract clean-energy companies,
including makers of lithium ion batteries used to store power
before it is fed to the grid.  They also envision using electric buses to ferry residents
around town and rebuilding schools to double as community
centers and evacuation shelters, thereby streamlining public
infrastructure.  Making the Kesen project a reality hinges on how much of
the central government’s 19 trillion yen in reconstruction
spending goes to the three cities, as well as alternative-energy
subsidies, says another project adviser, Kimikazu Uemura, chief
executive officer of Index Consulting Inc., a project management
firm.  Anti-Nuclear Zeitgeist  “It’s important that whatever is built brings new business
and is sustainable,” he says. “If the government focuses only on
rebuilding existing infrastructure, we’ll have areas with new
roads and buildings but nobody living there.”  The regeneration ideas swirling around Kesen fit the
current anti-nuclear Japanese zeitgeist.  After the March 2011 tsunami damaged the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear power plant, and radiation spread across the area,
polling by the Asahi newspaper found that 74 percent of those
surveyed were in favor of decommissioning all of Japan’s
reactors.  The sour mood is deepening long-standing public
disaffection with the economic and political malaise that has
gripped Japan since the asset-bubble collapse of the early
1990s, says Andrew DeWit, a professor of the politics of public
finance at  Tokyo ’s Rikkyo University.  Quadrillion Yen  The economy has contracted in three of the past four years.
As of June 11, the Nikkei 225 Stock Average had fallen 78
percent from its peak in December 1989.  In May,  Fitch Ratings  cut Japan’s yen sovereign rating by
two levels, to A+ from AA, as the country struggled to rein in
the biggest public debt burden -- both in absolute terms and as
a percentage of gross domestic product -- in the world. The
amount of debt is expected to exceed a quadrillion yen for the
first time this year.  In rejecting nuclear, DeWit says, the Japanese are
rejecting the web of cozy ties at the very top of society,
forming what’s commonly called “the nuclear village” -- the
politicians, utilities, bureaucrats and academics that promoted
Japan’s reliance on atomic energy in the first place.  Energy shortages risk making things worse. Nuclear power
has been the linchpin of the resource-poor country’s economic
planning since the 1960s.  Zero Nuclear  It has fed industrial giants such as Toyota Motor Corp. and
Sony Corp. that helped Japan recover from the devastation of
World War II to become the world’s second-largest economy by
1967.  Before the disaster, Japan depended on atomic power for 30
percent of its energy needs.  That share had fallen to zero by May 5 this year as nuclear
plants taken offline for regular maintenance weren’t restarted
while the government and regulators scrambled to reassure a
doubting public of their safety.  The impasse ended in June when Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  approved the restart of two reactors in western Japan, a
measure he says is necessary for the economy. The first was
running at full capacity by July 9.  Still, the long-term policy remains to reduce dependency on
nuclear and move toward renewables such as wind and solar.  That’s good news for nontraditional energy companies, as
well as Kesen-like smart-city projects.  FutureCity Program  To help the upstarts, the government is introducing so-
called feed-in tariffs that force utilities to pay a higher
price for renewable power over the next 20 years: 42 yen per
kilowatt-hour compared with the 13.65 yen rate charged to
industrial and commercial users.  This allows new, alternative-energy operators, who face
high startup costs, to enter the market on a more competitive
footing.  Out of 11 cities in the government’s FutureCity program,
six are in the tsunami-hit northeastern region, which Jun Iio of
Japan’s Reconstruction Design Council says is “a microcosm of
the problems being faced by all of Japan.”  About a third of Rikuzentakata’s population is over the age
of 65. Japan’s population, which peaked in 2005, is poised to
shrink to 125.2 million in 2014 from 127.7 million last year,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  People over the age of 65 make up about 23 percent of the
population, a proportion that may increase to 40 percent by
2050, government estimates show.  Rural Decline  Smart cities can help reverse rural decline, DeWit says.
There’s an economic rationale for converting land to renewable-
energy use.  Rice paddies that were inundated with seawater in March
2011 can yield more profit if they’re covered with solar panels
than if they’re rehabilitated as agricultural land.  “When you’re sitting on land, or an old factory, rather
than clear it up, you can cover it with solar panels,” says Penn Bowers, a utility and trading-company analyst at CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets in Tokyo.  That’s what Masayoshi Son, Japan’s second-richest person,
would like to do on irradiated farmland around the Fukushima
plant, including the strict no-go area that can’t be used for
crops or grazing.  The CEO of mobile-phone-service provider  Softbank Corp. (9984)  is
eager to press ahead with a vast array of solar plants producing
more than 200 megawatts, enough to power about 48,600 homes.
He’s awaiting passage of government legislation that would
guarantee projects such as his access to the electricity grid.  New Opportunities  The spread of new energy sources could create opportunities
for players other than utilities, says Ali Izadi-Najafabadi, an 
energy technologies analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Wind and sunshine aren’t constant, and the energy they
produce needs to be stored in batteries so that it can be
released in such a way as to meet the ebb and flow of peak and
off-peak consumption.  By the end of the year, Japan may have more  lithium-ion
batteries  installed on the  power grid  than any other country,
Izadi-Najafabadi says.  “That wouldn’t have happened without Fukushima,” he says.
“The utilities weren’t considering these so-called smart-grid
technologies. They operate in a different world now.”  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and  NEC Corp. (6701) , both makers of industrial-grade
batteries, are among 30 companies in the Kesen ecocity
consortium.  Consumer Electronics  Creating demand in northeast Japan may help battery makers
compete against global rivals, the University of Tokyo’s Miyata
says.  “Japan led the development of lithium-ion batteries for use
in consumer electronics and then with cars,” Miyata says. “Each
time, Korea and China caught up rapidly, and now, everyone is
trying to be first to develop the next generation of batteries,
which is industrial, large scale.”  In Rikuzentakata, Mayor Toba has a personal stake in
regeneration.  His wife was killed when the tsunami engulfed their seaside
home. He was at  city hall  and survived, as did their two
children, who were at school.  Reborn, Rikuzentakata would be a fitting legacy to those
who perished.  “We have to do more than simply rebuild houses,” Toba says.
“If we do that but don’t provide people with jobs, their lives
won’t get better.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  