-- Superjet Wins Five-Plane Mexican Order, 2 Months After Crash
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-07-10T16:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/superjet-wins-five-plane-mexican-order-2-months-after-crash-1-.html
Sukhoi Co.’s SuperJet 100 won an
order for five aircraft from Mexican discount carrier Interjet,
two months after the project was rocked by a fatal crash in
 Indonesia  involving a plane on a promotional tour.  Interjet converted its last remaining options on the model,
giving it 20 firm orders worth $700 million at list price,
Chairman Miguel Aleman Velasco said at the Farnborough air show
near  London . The carrier, a unit of ABC Aerolineas SA, plans to
take another 10 aircraft, subject to negotiations, he said.  The Superjet, a 100-seat plane that’s been flying
commercially since 2011, is the centerpiece of  Russia ’s attempt
to revive a manufacturing industry that has languished since
communism collapsed in 1991. One of its planes crashed in
Indonesia during a promotion flight, killing all 45 aboard. The
company said the crash hasn’t affected the program commercially.  “Unfortunately, the tragedy was severe,” Vladimir S. Prisyazhnyuk, president of Sukhoi Civil Aircraft, said at a
briefing. “In terms of impact on the program, I’d say that not
one of them has refused or canceled agreements. They’re still
working with us.”  The company continues to pursue new business in Indonesia,
“a market which is quite important to us,” he said.  Prisyazhnyuk declined to give an update on the
investigation by Indonesian and Russian authorities into the
causes of the accident, which involved the plane crashing into a
mountain. Both the cockpit voice recorder and the flight data
recorder were recovered and Prisyazhnyuk said he expected the
full report on the crash to come by late July or early August.  Superjet International is a joint venture between Russia’s
Sukhoi and Alenia Aermacchi, a unit of  Italy ’s  Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  