-- Swine Flu Shot for Moms Doesn’t Raise Risk for Newborns
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-07-10T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/swine-flu-shot-for-moms-doesn-t-raise-risk-for-newborns.html
Babies born to women who received a
swine flu shot during pregnancy don’t have a higher risk of
birth defects, Danish researchers found in one of the first
studies targeting the safety of the vaccine on newborns.  The babies of mothers given the vaccine for H1N1 influenza
virus, or swine flu, also weren’t any more likely than those of
women who didn’t receive the vaccine to be born prematurely or
smaller, according to research released today in the Journal of
the  American Medical Association .  Swine flu disproportionately affects pregnant women,
causing severe complications including death, said Mark
Steinhoff, who wrote an accompanying editorial in the journal.
Today’s research and a Canadian study looking at the vaccine’s
effect on Guillain-Barre syndrome, a disorder in which the body
attacks its nervous system, shows the shot is safe and should be
used as a precaution to prevent infection, he said.  “People are beginning to see there really are bad effects
of flu,” said Steinhoff, director of the Children’s Global
Health Center at Cincinnati Children’s Hospital in  Ohio , in a
July 6 telephone interview. “The vaccines are safe enough to
recommend their use.”  The 2009 H1N1 virus was reported in more than 214 countries
through August 2010, when the WHO declared an end to the
pandemic. It probably killed about 284,500 people worldwide,
researchers from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention wrote in June in the journal Lancet Infectious
Diseases. Swine flu has since become one of three seasonal flu
strains circulating worldwide, causing infections mostly during
the winter months.  Study Data  Researchers in today’s study looked at 53,432 babies born
in  Denmark . Of those, 6,989, or 13 percent, had mothers who were
given the  flu vaccine  during pregnancy. The Danish H1N1 vaccine
is different from the U.S. vaccine because it contains a
booster, called an adjuvant, that allows less of the vaccine to
be used for the same result.  The researchers found a major birth defect was diagnosed in
18 of 330 infants whose moms were given the vaccine during the
first three months of pregnancy compared with 15 of 330 in
babies born to women not given the vaccine. The study also
showed that pre-term birth occurred in 31 of the 300 infants
exposed in the first trimester and 302 of 6,543 exposed in the
second and third trimesters versus 24 of 330 in the first
trimester and 295 of 6,366 in the second or third trimester.  ‘Reassuring’ Results  “Our study contributes to the information available on the
safety of influenza vaccination in pregnancy,” said study
author Anders Hviid, a senior investigator in the Departments of
Epidemiology Research at Statens Serum Institute in Copenhagen,
in an e-mail. “It is by no means a complete evaluation of
vaccination in pregnancy, and we cannot recommend specific
courses of action based only on our study. However, our results
are certainly reassuring to pregnant women and medical
professionals.”  GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) , based in  London , Paris-based  Sanofi (SAN)  and
 Novartis AG (NOVN) , based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , are among the makers
of the vaccine.  In a separate study, researchers said those in  Quebec  given
the H1N1 vaccine in 2009 and early 2010 had a slightly higher
risk of developing Guillain-Barre syndrome although the benefits
of immunization likely outweigh the risks.  Guillain-Barre Syndrome  In Guillain-Barre syndrome, a person’s immune system
damages nerve cells that can lead to muscle weakness and
paralysis. Many things can cause the disease but most people who
develop the syndrome do so after they’ve been sick with diarrhea
or a respiratory illness, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention said. It can also occur after a person has the
flu and, on very rare occasions, it may develop after
vaccination, the CDC said.  The researchers found about 2 cases of the disease for
every 1 million doses given of the vaccine. Those ages 50 and
older were at the highest risk, the authors said. That compares
with the risk of hospitalization from a swine flu infection of 1
per 2,500 in Quebec, while the risk of death was 1 in 73,000.  “It does increase the risk but the risk is really quite
small,” Steinhoff said. “The risk of Guillain-Barre is much
smaller than the risk of being hospitalized with flu or having a
very bad outcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  