-- U.K. Finance Industry Spent 92.8 Million Pounds on Lobbying
-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k
-- 2012-07-10T07:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/u-k-finance-industry-spent-92-8-million-pounds-on-lobbying.html
Britain’s finance industry spent
92.8 million pounds ($144 million) lobbying government officials
in 2011, according to the Bureau of Investigative Journalism.  The City of  London  Corporation, which governs London’s
oldest financial district, spent the most at 10.1 million
pounds, the nonprofit organization said. Former City of London
Policy Chairman Stuart Fraser had contact with U.K. Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and other Treasury ministers and
officials 22 times in the 14 months to March, the bureau said.  It’s the first time the bureau has published an estimate
into annual spending by the finance industry. Lobbying successes
included reducing  corporation tax , blocking European Union rules
to limit commodity trading, limiting a nonprofit  pension plan 
for low-wage workers and ending government plans for a new
watchdog for publicly traded companies, the bureau said.  “In a time of austerity, the finance lobby has been able
to secure tax breaks and favorable legislative outcomes,” Iain
Overton, managing editor of  the bureau , said in a statement.  The bureau is based at  City University  in London and was
founded in 2010 with a 2-million-pound donation from the David
and Elaine Potter Foundation. David Potter founded  Psion Plc (PON) ,
which sold the first electronic organizer in 1984. Potter has
given money to the Labour party, and was appointed to the board
of the  Bank of England  in 2003, when  Gordon Brown  was Britain’s
chancellor.  There are 129 organizations that lobby for finance
companies in the U.K., with more than 800 people employed,
according to the bureau. More than 120 members of Parliament’s
upper House of Lords have direct links to finance companies, the
bureau said.  The research took four months to compile from documents
obtained from the Treasury, the Financial Services Authority,
the City of London Corporation and the British Bankers’
Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Clark in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  