-- U.K. Manufacturing Unexpectedly Jumps on Work-Day Boost: Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-07-10T11:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/u-k-manufacturing-unexpectedly-surges-on-working-day-boost-1-.html
U.K.  manufacturing  unexpectedly
surged the most in a year in May, boosted by an additional
working day after the government moved a public holiday to June.  Factory output rose 1.2 percent from April, when it fell
0.8 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. The median forecast of 26 economists in a Bloomberg News
 survey  was for a decline of 0.1 percent. Italian industrial
output also unexpectedly increased in May, gaining 0.8 percent
from April, when it fell 1.9 percent. French industrial
production dropped.  Central Banks have started a new round of global stimulus
in an attempt to limit the fallout from Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis, which has already seen five of the 17 euro members seek
a bailout. The  European Central Bank  cut  interest rates  to a
record low last week and the  Bank of England  expanded its bond-
purchase target by 50 billion pounds ($78 billion) to 375
billion pounds as the outlook for the economy worsened.  China 
also lowered borrowing costs.  Today’s U.K. data is “a very good number, but it’s
entirely because of the extra day during the month,” said
 Philip Shaw , an economist at Investec Securities in London.
“Underneath it all, it’s hard to say what the underlying path
of manufacturing is, but I think the broad implication is that
it continues to struggle.”  Stocks Gain  European stocks rose for the first time in a week on the
U.K. and Italy data and as euro-area finance ministers made
progress on supporting Spanish banks. U.S. index futures
advanced while Asian shares dropped.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 1.1 percent to 256.20 at
11:25 a.m. in London. The gauge has risen for five straight
weeks, the longest winning streak since January, as the region’s
policy makers eased repayment rules for Spanish banks and
relaxed conditions for possible aid to  Italy . The FTSE 100 Index
rose 46.06, or 0.8 percent, to 5,673.39.  The U.K. statistics office said today that manufacturing
data for May and June should be treated “with caution.”  The government moved the U.K.’s annual public holiday at
the end of May for the queen’s Diamond Jubilee. It also added an
extra holiday in June. In 2002, when a similar change happened
for the Golden Jubilee, manufacturing rose 0.7 percent in May
before plunging 5.3 percent the following month.  In the three months through May, manufacturing fell 0.2
percent compared with the previous three months. Overall
industrial production dropped 1.6 percent in May from the same
month in 2011, a 14th consecutive annual decline.  U.K. Exports  In a separate report, the ONS said exports rose 7.8 percent
in May from April, led by cars, oil and chemicals. Imports
increased 1.5 percent. The goods-trade deficit narrowed to 8.36
billion pounds from 9.71 billion pounds.  The  trade balance  on services was little changed in May at
5.65 billion pounds, leaving the total trade deficit at 2.72
billion pounds.  China’s imports rose less than anticipated in June, pushing
its  trade surplus  to a three-year high and adding pressure on
the government to support demand as the global economy slows.  Inbound shipments increased 6.3 percent from a year
earlier, the customs bureau said in a statement today in
Beijing, compared with the 11 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 32 economists. Export growth slowed to
11.3 percent and the trade surplus rose to $31.7 billion.  The data add to signs of flagging momentum for global
growth as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbs exports and property
controls restrain domestic demand in the world’s second-biggest
economy.  China’s Growth  China’s economic growth may have slowed to 7.7 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier, according to the median
estimate of 36 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The economy
expanded 8.1 percent in the first three months, the fifth
quarterly deceleration. Data will be announced July 13.  French industrial output dropped 1.9 percent in May, the
latest sign that the euro area’s second-largest economy is
heading for its first quarterly contraction in three years.
Economists had forecast a 1 percent decline.  Britain’s economy shrank 0.3 percent in the first quarter
after contracting by 0.4 percent in the previous three months.
The National Institute of Economic and Social Research will
publish its gross-domestic-product estimate for the second
quarter later today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  