-- U.K. Prepares Plan for Cutting Onshore Wind Subsidies
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-07-10T08:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/u-k-prepares-plan-for-cutting-onshore-wind-subsidies.html
The U.K. government is about to
publish plans to cut subsidies for land-based  wind turbines ,
capping months of debate within Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
government about the scale of incentives the industry needs.  The Department of Energy and Climate Change will make an
announcement about the program “shortly,” a spokesman said in
an e-mail. Energy Minister  Charles Hendry  said July 3 the plan
will be published before Parliament breaks for summer July 17.  Cameron’s Conservatives and its coalition partners from the
Liberal Democrat Party have been feuding over support for the
industry, which Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  wants
to reduce to keep a lid on electricity bills. Cameron took
office pledging to lead the “greenest government ever,” and
Liberals leading the energy department favor maintaining support
for renewables.  The DECC “sees this as a slightly religious thing,” said 
Chris Heaton-Harris, a Conservative member of Parliament who 
joined 101 of his party’s lawmakers in seeking a subsidy cut. 
“I’ve learned in two years of being an MP the Treasury sees 
everything through pound signs.”  A government proposal last year recommended a reduction of
10 percent. There’s “every indication” there may be a
political attempt to make the cut deeper than that, said Gaynor 
Hartnell, chief executive officer of the Renewable Energy 
Association, which expects the government to stick with its plan.  ‘Dampening Effect’  “It’s incredibly important that industry thinks the
government is basing its subsidy decision on evidence and not
politics,” Hartnell said. “It would have a real dampening
effect not just on wind, but on the whole energy
infrastructure.”  Renewable Energy Systems Ltd., a Kings Langley, England-
based developer, said two of its wind-farm sites would be at 
risk if the cuts were more than the 10 percent proposed.  “That would bring things to a grinding stop,” Gordon
MacDougall, RES chief operating officer, said by phone. “The 10
percent cut we didn’t like, but we’ve grown to accept it.”   It would be “unheard of” for government to lower proposals 
it made after an evidence-based consultation, he said.  Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  told a conference in London last
month it was critical investors and industry knew the government
“won’t play fast and loose” with figures as it neared decisions.  Nearing Target  Heaton-Harris said the U.K. is already close to its 2020
onshore-wind target of 13 gigawatts, showing the subsidy’s too 
high. Onshore producers from April 2010 to March 2011 received
394 million pounds ($612 million) of support under the subsidy
program, according to U.K. energy regulator Ofgem.  The money should go to other renewables and efficiency, he
said. Britain has a target to get 15 percent of its energy from
renewable sources by 2020 and plans to reduce support for
onshore wind as turbines become cheaper. It got about 3.3
percent of its energy from renewables in 2011,  BP Plc (BP/)  estimates.  The incentive may be cut from one so-called Renewable
Obligation Certificate, or ROC, a megawatt-hour to 0.9 of a
certificate from 2013 to 2017, under DECC's proposals published
in October. Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates U.K. onshore
wind may be profitable without subsidies by 2020.  The Renewables Obligation is Britain’s main support for
large-scale clean energy programs. It obliges electricity
suppliers to get a certain portion of the power they sell
from clean sources, and they can meet their obligations by
buying ROCs.  The new levels are expected to include increased support
for some biomass and cuts to offshore wind from the current 2
ROCs to 1.9 ROCs for the 2015-2016 tax year. That’s not as steep
a cut as an initial plan that awarded 1.5 ROCs from 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  