-- U.K. Plans Water Law to Spur Competition, Investment
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-07-10T12:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/u-k-plans-water-law-to-spur-competition-investment.html
U.K. Minister  David Cameron ’s
government published a draft bill to make it easier for water
users in England to switch suppliers and save consumers as much
as 2 billion pounds ($3.1 billion) over the next three decades.  The proposed rules give the water regulator Ofwat new
powers over the industry and allow businesses and public
agencies to change sewer and water suppliers. The government
also plans to make it easier for companies to trade water in
bulk, helping unlock supplies during a drought.  “For the first time all businesses and other organizations
will be able to shop around for their water and sewerage
suppliers,” U.K. Secretary of State for Environment Caroline Spelman said in an e-mailed statement. “By slashing red tape,
we will also stimulate a market for new water resources and
incentivize more water recycling.”  Britain’s water utilities are struggling to boost supply
following an almost 2-year drought and patch leaks as demand
increases. Southeast  England  suffered from water restrictions
until yesterday even as Britain endured record rains that
started in April. Kemble Water Holdings Ltd.’s Thames Water
unit, which serves 8.8 million homes and businesses in London,
had  restrictions  in place until lifting them June 14.  The government aims to bring in the new rules by April
2017, subject to a panel approving that timeline, Spelman’s
department said in the statement.  Similar reforms to the industry in  Scotland  are already set
to save public bodies 20 million pounds over the next three
years, according to today’s statement. The economy may benefit
by 2 billion pounds over 30 years should English reforms go
ahead, it said.  ‘Sourcing Water’  “Increased competition in the wholesale market will give
water companies an incentive to come up with cheaper, more
sustainable solutions to sourcing water,” Spelman’s department
said.  Under the new rules, Ofwat will devise standard terms and
conditions for companies wishing to enter the market, replacing
a system where new entrants at present have to negotiate with as
many as 21 water companies to gain access.  The government’s draft legislation outlined measures to
expand environmental permitting regulations, extending them from
pollution prevention toward flood defense and the ability of
companies and individuals to draw water from lakes and rivers,
known as “abstraction” rights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 