-- U.K. RICS House-Price Index Drops to Lowest in Eight Months
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-07-10T08:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/u-k-rics-house-price-index-drops-to-lowest-in-eight-months-1-.html
A U.K.  house-price index  fell last
month to the lowest since October as demand for property
slumped, the  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said.  The price gauge fell to minus 22 from minus 17 in May,
London-based RICS said in a report today, citing a monthly poll
of property surveyors. A reading below zero means more surveyors
saw price drops than gains last month. Measures of new buyer
enquiries dropped to the lowest in almost two years.  The  property market  is struggling to recover as lenders
curtail access to credit and households are squeezed by a
 double-dip recession  and the expiry of a tax break for first-
time buyers. The  Bank of England  increased its bond-purchase
target by 50 billion pounds ($78 billion) to 375 billion pounds
last week to stoke economic growth.  “The housing market didn’t manage to turn a corner last
month and activity remained in the doldrums,” Simon Rubinsohn,
chief economist at RICS, said in a statement. “Fewer vendors
looked to test the market and levels of buyer interest seem to
have fallen back since the expiry of the stamp duty deadline
earlier in the year.”  A measure of new buyer inquiries fell to minus 10 in June
from minus 2 in May, and a gauge of new instructions by sellers
dropped to minus 11 from minus 4, RICS said. Over the past three
months, all regions tracked by RICS showed price declines, with
the exception of London.  Demand for homes was boosted earlier this year as first-
time buyers took advantage of a  tax exemption  on purchases of
homes costing less than 250,000 pounds before it ended March 24.  Mixed Picture  Other house-price indexes have presented a mixed picture of
the property market. Values rose for a  second month  in June,
Lloyds Banking Group’s Halifax division said July 5. Hometrack
Ltd. said prices stagnated last month, while  Nationwide Building
Society  said they fell 0.6 percent.  In a separate report, the  British Retail Consortium  said
same-store retail sales rose 1.4 percent in June from a year
earlier, up from a 1.3 percent pace in May, as preparations for
Queen Elizabeth II’s Diamond Jubilee celebrations and warm
weather boosted spending on food, drink, clothing and footwear
at the start of the month.  “The remainder of the month proved much more
challenging throughout the sector,” the lobby group said today.
“Discretionary and big-ticket items continued to struggle as
consumers’ underlying caution about the economy, jobs and their
personal finances curtailed spending.”  In the second quarter, like-for-like sales fell 0.1 percent
from a year earlier, the BRC said. Food sales were up 0.1
percent, while non-food sales dropped 0.2 percent, the BRC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  