-- U.K. ‘Leading’ Vestas Offshore Wind Market, Manager Says
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-07-10T13:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/u-k-leading-vestas-offshore-wind-market-manager-says.html
The U.K. is the world’s leading
offshore wind market for  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , said the
Danish turbine-maker, which last month canceled plans for a
factory in southeast  England .  “Even from Vestas’ perspective,” the U.K. is still the
leading market, Sarah Merrick, U.K. and Ireland government
relations manager at the company, told a panel of lawmakers.  She made her comments weeks after Vestas pulled out of
plans to build a turbine factory at the Port of Sheerness in
Kent. The plant for the 7-megawatt turbine would have created
2,000 jobs. While Merrick said she was unable to comment on
details of the factory, she said developers and industry needed
“long-term visibility” for investment decisions.  “At the moment, it’s very difficult to see that there’s
much visibility in terms of what’s likely happen beyond the end
of the RO,” she said, referring to the U.K.’s support program
for offshore wind and other renewable energy sources. That makes
it “very difficult for investors to make those long-term
decisions.”  The U.K. is about to publish details of revised levels of
support for clean technologies including offshore wind covering
the 2013 to 2017 period. From 2017, the so-called Renewables
Obligation will be replaced with “contracts for difference,”
which set long-term prices for power and are so far only in
outline form.  The lack of detail on the new contracts fuels uncertainty
for wind investors, Gordon Edge, policy director at industry
group RenewableUK, told lawmakers in June.  The U.K. is well-placed to reap benefits of an offshore
wind industry including jobs in services and infrastructure for
turbines installed at sea, Merrick said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  