-- U.K. Stocks Rise as Manufacturing Beats Forecasts
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-07-10T15:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/u-k-stocks-rise-as-manufacturing-beats-forecasts.html
U.K. stocks  advanced, reversing two
days of losses, as manufacturing unexpectedly rose in May and
policy makers agreed to disburse the first installment of loans
to Spanish banks.  Afren Plc (AFR)  gained 9.1 percent after the  Daily Mail  reported
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  may bid for the company.  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  added 2.2 percent after Chairman Marcus Agius said the
bank’s former chief executive officer will forgo bonuses.  WPP
Plc (WPP)  gained after JPMorgan & Chase Co. upgraded the stock.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  rose 36.74, or 0.7 percent, to 5,664.07
at the close of trading in London even after China’s June
imports missed estimates. The gauge has rallied 7.7 percent from
its 2012 low on June 1 as Greece formed a government and euro-
area leaders eased repayment norms for Spanish banks. The
broader FTSE All-Share Index gained 0.7 percent today. Ireland’s
ISEQ Index climbed 0.6 percent.  “Regional markets have vaulted higher today, shrugging off
poor China trade data out overnight,” Ishaq Siddiqi, a market
strategist at ETX Capital in London wrote in a note. “Instead,
markets have been comforted by better economic data from the
U.K. and  Italy .  U.K.  manufacturing  in May surged the most in a year, a
report showed. Factory output rose 1.2 percent from April, the
 Office for National Statistics  said. The median forecast of 26
economists in a Bloomberg News survey called for a decline of
0.1 percent.  Overall industrial output increased 1 percent. The
statistics office said both May and June data may be distorted
by the shifting of a public holiday.  Another report showed Italian industrial production
unexpectedly rose in May after declining more than originally
reported in the previous month.  Spanish Banks  Euro-area finance ministers agreed to disburse 30 billion
euros ($37 billion) by the end of July as part of a 100 billion-
euro plan to strengthen Spanish banks. The eventual goal is to
use bailout funds to recapitalize the lenders directly instead
of saddling the government with the debt.  In  China , imports increased 6.3 percent from a year
earlier, the customs bureau said in a statement today in
Beijing, compared with the 11 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 32 economists. Export growth slowed to
11.3 percent and the  trade surplus  rose to $31.7 billion.  Afren, a U.K.-based oil and gas company focused in Africa,
surged 9.1 percent to 114.3 pence, the biggest jump since June
6. Exxon and Eni may bid 2.15 billion pounds in cash, or more
than 2 pounds per share, for the company, the  Daily Mail 
reported last night without citing anyone.  Barclays, WPP  Barclays gained 2.2 percent to 167 pence. Agius said the
bank’s former Chief Executive Officer  Bob Diamond  will forgo
deferred bonuses valued at as much as 20 million pounds ($31
million) after politicians protested his role in the Libor-
fixing scandal. Diamond will receive a total payoff of about 2
million pounds.  WPP Plc, the world’s biggest advertising agency, rose 1.6
percent to 808 pence. The stock was upgraded to overweight, the
equivalent of buy, from neutral at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Centamin Plc (CEY) , a gold producer in Egypt, advanced 2.9
percent to 68.4 pence. The company said its production of the
precious metal rose 40 percent in the second quarter from the
same time last year.  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , Europe’s largest weapons maker, gained 2.7
percent to 305 pence, its highest since March 23. UBS AG said
profit growth from the company’s U.K. and international business
will offset uncertainty in the U.S.  GlaxoSmithKline Outlook  GlaxoSmithKline Plc dropped 2.8 percent to 1,454 pence
after UBS AG downgraded the company’s profit estimates for the
second quarter and cut the price target for the share.  Balfour Beatty lost 2.9 percent to 302 pence. The U.K’s
 biggest builder  said the uncertainty over the government’s
investment decisions continues and there is an absence of
larger, more complex projects. The company said its order book
remains strong and the full-year performance will be in line
with expectations.  Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment Plc fell 2.6 percent to
105 pence, its third day of declines. The company said there is
continuing pressure on its poker operations and its gross win
margin in sports betting was lower than expected. Sentiment will
continue to be overshadowed by regulatory risk and slow progress
in the U.S., the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  