-- U.S. AAA Rating Unlikely to Change Before 2013, Fitch Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-07-10T21:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/u-s-aaa-rating-unlikely-to-change-before-2013-fitch-says.html
Fitch Ratings  said the negative
outlook on the U.S.’s AAA credit ranking is unlikely to change
before late 2013 as it waits to assess any deficit-reduction
plans following this year’s elections.  While the U.S.’s top grade is “underpinned” by factors
including the nation’s diversified and productive economy and
financial flexibility from the dollar’s status as the reserve
currency, the outlook “reflects the risks associated with the
lack of broad public and political agreement on how to secure
deficit reduction,” Fitch said today in a statement.  “Agreement on a multi-year deficit reduction plan that
would stabilize government indebtedness and secure confidence in
the long-run sustainability of public finances would likely”
affirm the U.S. at AAA and raise the outlook to stable, Fitch
said. Failure to agree on deficit-reduction that drives
increasing indebtedness over the next 10 years would likely
cause a downgrade, the New York and London-based firm said.  Moody’s Investors Service, which rates the U.S. at Aaa,
lowered its outlook on the nation to negative in August.
 Standard & Poor’s  cut the America one step to AA+ on Aug. 5.
Treasuries have rallied 6.8 percent since the S&P downgrade,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Another “debt-ceiling crisis” may spur a review of the
U.S. rating, Fitch said. Last year’s borrowing-limit debate was
cited by S&P as among the reasons it cut the U.S., and the
company has said political and fiscal risks may lead to another
downgrade.  Fitch lowered its outlook on the U.S. rating to negative
from stable in November on “diminished confidence that timely
fiscal measures necessary to place U.S. public finances on a
sustainable path would be forthcoming,” the company said. The
ratings firm forecasts the U.S. economic growth to “gradually
accelerate” next year and in 2014 as household debt declines
and the housing market stabilizes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  