-- U.S. Bid for Megaupload Founder Dotcom’s Extradition Is Delayed
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-07-10T02:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/u-s-bid-for-megaupload-founder-dotcom-s-extradition-is-delayed.html
Kim Dotcom, the Megaupload.com
website founder accused of orchestrating the biggest copyright
infringement conspiracy in U.S. history, had his extradition
hearing in  New Zealand  delayed until next year.  The hearing, previously scheduled for next month in
Auckland, was tentatively rescheduled for March 25, according to
a summary of a July 6 teleconference published today by District
Court Judge David Harvey.  Prosecutors and Dotcom’s lawyers agreed to the delay to
allow for an appeal of a court ruling that warrants used by New
Zealand police to search Dotcom’s home in January weren’t valid.
Dotcom’s lawyers are also pressing for disclosure of the
evidence the U.S. has against him and a decision on that
request, which is pending, will probably be appealed as well,
Harvey wrote.  “Those appeal hearings should be dealt with together
before the Court of Appeal,” Harvey said. “It is recognized
that the appeal process will take some time.”  Dotcom, 38, was indicted in what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a
“mega conspiracy,” accusing his file-sharing website of
generating more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files. He
faces as long as 20 years in prison for each of the racketeering
and  money-laundering  charges in the indictment.  Dotcom complained about the delay in postings on  Twitter 
today.  “Dirty delay tactics by the U.S.,” he wrote on the social
media site. “They destroyed my business. Took all my assets.
Time does the rest.”  Site Shut Down  The U.S. shut down Megaupload.com without notice after
charges against seven individuals, including Dotcom, were
unsealed in federal court in Alexandria,  Virginia , on Jan. 19.  A Feb. 17 revised indictment includes racketeering, money
laundering, copyright infringement and wire fraud charges.  The racketeering and money laundering charges carry maximum
penalties of 20 years in prison while the copyright infringement
charges have maximum five-year penalties.  Helen Winkelmann , the chief justice of the  High Court  of
New Zealand, which is an intermediate court, had ruled warrants
used by police to search Dotcom’s rented mansion on the
outskirts of Auckland and to seize his property, including a
pink Cadillac, were overly broad and invalid.  Winkelmann had ordered the New Zealand’s Attorney General
to notify U.S. authorities of her decision and request the
voluntary return of copies of Dotcom’s hard drives that were
removed from New Zealand. She also ordered the return of all
 computer hardware  to Dotcom that was seized by police and
remains in New Zealand.  German-born Dotcom was arrested at his residence in late
January and spent four weeks in jail before being released to
await the extradition hearing. When police raided the mansion in
Coatesville, north of Auckland, they seized 18  luxury vehicles ,
including a Rolls Royce Phantom Drophead Coupe and the 1959 pink
Cadillac.  Dotcom’s bail will continue to March 25, Harvey said.  The case is between Kim Dotcom and Attorney-General. Civ
2012-404-1928. High Court of New Zealand (Auckland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  