-- U.S. May Job Openings and Labor Turnover Report (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2012-07-10T14:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/u-s-may-job-openings-and-labor-turnover-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the May  job
openings  and labor turnover rates.  Job Openings and Labor Turnover - May 2012  There were 3.6 million job openings on the last business
day of May, little changed from 3.4 million in April, the  U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics  reported today. The hires rate (3.3
percent) and separations rate (3.3 percent) were essentially
unchanged in May. This release includes estimates of the number
and rate of job openings, hires, and separations for the nonfarm
sector by industry and by geographic region.  Job Openings  The number of job openings in May was 3.6 million, little
changed from April. Job openings increased for manufacturing,
government, and state and local government. The number of
openings also increased for the Midwest region. The level of
total nonfarm job openings in May was up from 2.4 million at the
end of the recession in June 2009. (Recession dates are
determined by the  National Bureau of Economic Research .)  The number of job openings in May (not seasonally adjusted)
increased over the year for total nonfarm, total private, and
government. Job openings increased over the year for several
industries and the Northeast and South regions.  Hires  In May, the hires rate was essentially unchanged at 3.3
percent for total nonfarm. The hires rate was little changed in
all industries and regions. The number of hires in May was 4.4
million, up from 3.7 million at the end of the recession in June
2009.  Over the 12 months ending in May, the hires rate (not
seasonally adjusted) was little changed for total nonfarm and
total private but increased for government. The hires rate
declined over the year in construction but rose in
transportation, warehousing, and utilities and federal
government.  Separations  The total separations figure includes quits, layoffs and
discharges, and other separations. Total separations is also
referred to as turnover. Quits are generally voluntary
separations initiated by the employee. Therefore, the quits rate
can serve as a measure of workers’ willingness or ability to
leave jobs. Layoffs and discharges are involuntary separations
initiated by the employer. Other separations include separations
due to retirement, death, and disability, as well as transfers
to other locations of the same firm.  The seasonally adjusted total separations rate was
essentially unchanged for total nonfarm, total private, and
government in May. Over the year, the total separations rate
(not seasonally adjusted) was essentially unchanged for total
nonfarm, total private, and government.  In May, the quits rate displayed little or no change for
total nonfarm, total private, and government. The number of
quits was 2.1 million in May, up from 1.8 million at the end of
the recession in June 2009.  The number of quits (not seasonally adjusted) in May was
essentially unchanged over the year for total nonfarm, total
private, and government. The number of quits increased over the
year in several industries but decreased in retail trade.  The layoffs and discharges component of total separations
is seasonally adjusted at the total nonfarm, total private, and
government levels and for the four regions. The layoffs and
discharges rate was essentially unchanged for total nonfarm and
total private but increased for government. The layoffs and
discharges rate showed little change in all four regions. The
number of layoffs and discharges for total nonfarm was 1.9
million in May 2012, down from 2.1 million at the end of the
recession in June 2009.  The layoffs and discharges level (not seasonally adjusted)
for total nonfarm, total private, and government was little
changed over the 12 months ending in May 2012. Over the year,
the number of layoffs and discharges rose for mining and logging
and was essentially unchanged in all four regions.  The other separations component of total separations is
seasonally adjusted at the total nonfarm, total private, and
government levels. In May 2012, there were 344,000 other
separations for total nonfarm, an increase from the previous
month. Over the 12 months ending in May 2012, the number of
other separations was little changed.  Net Change in Employment  Large numbers of hires and separations occur every month
throughout the business cycle. Net employment change results
from the relationship between hires and separations. When the
number of hires exceeds the number of separations, employment
rises, even if the hires level is steady or declining.
Conversely, when the number of hires is less than the number of
separations, employment declines, even if the hires level is
steady or rising. Over the 12 months ending in May 2012, hires
totaled 51.1 million and separations totaled 49.3 million,
yielding a net employment gain of 1.8 million. These figures
include workers who may have been hired and separated more than
once during the year.  The Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey results for June
2012 are scheduled to be released on Tuesday, August 7, 2012 at
10:00 a.m. (EDT).  Upcoming Changes to the Job Openings and Labor Turnover News
Release  Effective with the release of June data on Tuesday, August
7, 2012, current tables B and C will be moved to the numbered
tables section and will become tables 5 and 6, respectively.
Current tables 5 through 10 will be renumbered tables 7 through
12.  Technical Note  The data for the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey
(JOLTS) are collected and compiled monthly from a sample of
business establishments by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS).  Collection  In a monthly survey of business establishments, data are
collected for total employment, job openings, hires, quits,
layoffs and discharges, and other separations.  Data collection
methods include computer-assisted telephone interviewing,
touchtone data entry, web, fax, e-mail, and mail.  Coverage  The JOLTS program covers all private nonfarm establishments
such as factories, offices, and stores, as well as federal,
state, and local government entities in the 50 states and the
 District of Columbia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  