-- S&P 500 Has Longest Drop Since May Amid Earnings Concern
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-07-10T20:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-as-europe-concern-eases.html
 U.S. stocks declined for a fourth
day, giving the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its longest losing
streak since May, amid concern about corporate profits.  Technology and industrial shares, which are forecast to
post the strongest second-quarter earnings growth in the S&P
500, slumped amid lower sales estimates at  Applied Materials
Inc. (AMAT)  and  Cummins Inc. (CMI)   Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , a maker of
processors for personal computers, plunged 11 percent after
reporting an unexpected drop in revenue. Commodity shares fell
as the euro dropped to a two-year low versus the  U.S. dollar .  The S&P 500 decreased 0.8 percent to 1,341.47 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time, dropping 2.4 percent in four days. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  retreated 83.17 points, or 0.7 percent, to
12,653.12. Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was 6.2
billion shares, 7.4 percent below the three-month average.  “The bigger concern is with the next few quarters,” said
Bruce McCain, who helps oversee more than $20 billion as chief
investment strategist at the private-banking unit of KeyCorp in
Cleveland. He spoke in a telephone interview. “Earnings
disappointments suggest that we’re going to have not only
weakness this quarter, but it’s likely to carry on.”  Concern about the outlook for corporate earnings helped the
market reverse earlier gains. Profits for  S&P 500  companies fell
1.8 percent in the second quarter, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That would be the first decline
since 2009, even as revenue is forecast to rise 2.5 percent.
Analysts project profit growth of 3.9 percent and 15 percent,
respectively, in the third and fourth quarters of 2012.  Europe’s Crisis  Equities advanced earlier today as European governments
will jump-start as much as 100 billion euros ($123 billion) in
emergency loans to shore up Spain’s banks and may move the costs
off the Spanish government’s balance sheet.  “The news out of Europe is another step in the right
direction, but there’s a long way to go there,” said John Canally, an economist and investment strategist at LPL Financial
Corp. in Boston. The firm oversees about $330 billion. “Then
there’s the earnings season here. As always, the forecast
matters a lot more than what actually happened.”  Eight out of 10 groups in the S&P 500 retreated today as
industrial, commodity and technology shares lost at least 1.1
percent. The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-
tied to the economy sank 1.6 percent. The  Philadelphia
Semiconductor Index (SOX)  slumped 2.3 percent.  AMD tumbled 11 percent, the most since September, to $4.99.
Demand is being hurt by slower growth in China and a worsening
economic climate in Europe. The chipmaker also suffers as
consumers shun PCs in favor of tablets, which rely on
semiconductors made by other companies.  Applied Materials  Applied Materials slumped 2.7 percent to $10.71. The
chipmaking-equipment provider sliced its fiscal 2012 sales and
profit forecasts amid weakness in Europe, China and the
personal-computer market.  Cummins sank 8.9 percent, the most since August, to $86.91.
The maker of truck engines reduced its revenue forecast as
demand weakens and the economy slows. It said in a statement it
expects 2012 revenue “to be in line with” the 2011 level,
without specifying a figure. Cummins said in a Feb. 2 statement
it projected 2012 revenue would rise 10 percent compared with
2011. Cummins had  $18 billion  in revenue last year.  Commodity (S5MATR)  shares slumped as a stronger U.S. dollar reduces
the appeal of raw materials.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the first company in
the Dow to report results, dropped 4.1 percent to $8.40 even
after earnings and revenue beat analysts’ estimates.  No Surprises  “Earnings will be the driver of the market coming up,”
said John Augustine, who helps manage $25 billion as chief
market strategist at Cincinnati-based Fifth Third Bancorp. “It
was a good start for Alcoa. I don’t expect the rest of the
earnings season to surprise to the upside.”  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  fell 5 percent to $7.29 as Chief
Executive Officer Thorsten Heins struggled to reassure
shareholders who gathered today at the company’s annual meeting.
RIM has failed to keep up with Apple Inc. and Google Inc., and
the release of its new BlackBerry 10 operating system -- a
linchpin of its comeback plan -- has been delayed twice.  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  dropped 5.8 percent to $20.76. The company,
which hired Apple Inc.’s retail chief to reinvent its strategy,
fell after a Credit Suisse AG analyst said “poor messaging”
and a slower consumer environment will impact the company’s
second quarter.  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  plunged 9 percent to $9.66. The bond insurer said
a regulator hasn’t decided whether to allow a unit that backed
soured mortgage debt to make an interest payment on notes.  Joy Global  Joy Global  Inc. tumbled 5.5 percent to $50.58, the lowest
level since July 2010. Komatsu Ltd., the world’s second-biggest
maker of  dump trucks , has no plans to bid for  Joy Global (JOY)  after
studying the U.S. company, as there are few synergies to aid its
foray into underground mining equipment.  For-profit college companies slumped, led by  Bridgepoint
Education Inc. (BPI)  after two analysts downgraded the company’s
shares. A  Bloomberg index  of 13 for-profit college companies
fell 3.2 percent. Bridgepoint tumbled 8.3 percent to $13.07, on
top of a 34 percent slide yesterday after an accreditation
application by its Ashford University unit was denied by a
regional accreditor.  ASML Holding NV (ASML) ’s U.S. shares surged 8.5 percent to $52.57.
 Intel Corp. (INTC) , the largest semiconductor maker, agreed to invest
as much as $4.1 billion in the Dutch company in an effort to
shave two years from the time to adopt new production
techniques.  Intel slumped 2.3 percent to $25.56.  Analyst Recommendation  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  jumped 4.2 percent, the most in the
S&P 500, to $9.63. The company was  raised  to buy from neutral at
Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc. by equity analyst Jeffrey Kauffman.
The 12-month share-price estimate is $15.  DuPont Co. added 0.4 percent to $47.65. The world’s largest
producer of titanium dioxide said some reports overstated the
“softness” in the market for the pigment used in paint.  Wolverine World Wide Inc. (WWW)  rallied 6.9 percent to $40.97.
The owner of the Hush Puppies shoe brand advanced after
reaffirming that full-year profit may top analysts’ estimates.  Reluctance among U.S. companies to push earnings estimates
higher in the second quarter indicated the period’s results may
be disappointing, according to  Pierre Lapointe , Brockhouse &
Cooper Inc.’s global macro strategist.  Only 19 companies made profit projections last month that
beat analysts’ average  estimate , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and summarized by Brockhouse in a July 5 report. The
total was the lowest for any June since the figures were first
compiled in 2000 and the second-lowest for any month after the
14 last September.  “Investors did not get many indications from companies on
the strength of earnings,” Lapointe, who is based in Montreal,
wrote with colleagues Alex Bellefleur and Frances Donald. “The
risk is that we will get more earnings misses than usual.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  