-- Muddy Waters Stigma Means $1 Billion Cost to Exit U.S.
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-13T03:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/muddy-waters-stigma-means-1-billion-cost-to-exit-u-s-.html
(Corrects company name in 11th and 30th paragraphs in
story published July 11.)  China  Development Bank Corp., the
state-owned lender charged with strengthening the country’s
competitiveness, is providing more than $1 billion to help
smaller companies leave the U.S. stock market.  The nation’s biggest policy lender has offered funding so
 Fushi Copperweld Inc. (FSIN) , a Beijing-based wire maker listed on the
Nasdaq Stock Market, can buy back its shares from the public,
the company said last month.  China TransInfo Technology Corp. (CTFO) 
said June 8 it would drop its U.S. listing with CDB financing.
The bank has provided more funding than any other lender to help
the nation’s companies exit the world’s biggest equity market,
according to  Roth Capital Partners , which specializes in
 emerging markets .  While more than 60 Chinese companies joined U.S. exchanges
in the three years through 2011, only one listed this year after
those with market capitalizations of less than $500 million lost
53 percent of their market value. The crash began in June 2011,
when  Muddy Waters  LLC, a short-selling firm, raised concerns
about accounting and corporate-governance standards at Chinese
companies by accusing Sino-Forest Corp., a timber company that
traded on the Toronto exchange, of exaggerating its assets.  “There’s this sort of stigma on Chinese listed
companies,” said Phil Groves, president of Hong Kong-based DAC
Financial Management China Ltd., which assists investors with
due diligence of China investments. “These Chinese companies if
they’re not really big they are essentially marooned on the U.S.
listing system, where the promised land of lots of further share
issuances and debt financings aren’t happening.”  National Interests  CDB, established in 1994 and based in Beijing, is providing
financing through dollar loans as stock market losses in the
U.S. prompt smaller companies to consider moving their listings
to  Hong Kong  and other exchanges.  With foreign currency loans of $187.3 billion at the end of
2011, the bank backs Chinese companies by helping them obtain
business across the globe. Shareholders of the lender, which
isn’t listed on any stock market, include the Ministry of
Finance, the National Council for Social Security Fund and
state-owned Central Huijin Investment Co.  “CDB has an incentive to help the Chinese players,
particularly the large players, to regain their foothold,” in
part because many of them are existing customers, said Peter
Huang, a Beijing-based lawyer at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom LLP. “The other Chinese commercial banks have not
expressed a keen interest in making available facilities in this
regard.”  ’Red Flags’  Sino-Forest, the tree grower accused of fraud by Muddy
Waters, filed for bankruptcy in March after denying the
allegations.  Groups that bet on stock declines including Ripley Capital
and Jonestown Research have questioned other Chinese businesses.
Moody’s Investors Service said last July that 61 Chinese
companies it examined raised “red flags” due to possible
accounting risks.  The 53 percent plunge in the share prices of such firms
since the Muddy Waters’ report on Sino-Forest in June last year
is more than five times the 9.5 percent fall in the same period
for  top Chinese companies  traded in the U.S. The biggest
businesses include PetroChina Co., whose $254 billion market
capitalization exceeds the $206 billion of  Warren Buffett ’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  After going private, the smaller companies may re-list
again in Hong Kong, where they would aim to get higher
multiples, according to Johnson Chng, global partner and
managing director of  Greater China  at A.T. Kearney Inc.  CDB Leads  “The cost of compliance being listed in the U.S. isn’t
low,” Chng said. “The wave to delist in one market to go to
another higher-multiple market, that trend will probably pick
up.”  CDB’s $1.085 billion of commitments backing delistings of
Chinese companies is 43 times more than China Citic Bank Corp.’s
$25 million, the second-biggest amount, according to the Roth
Capital data and company filings.  “China Development Bank has played quite a large part in
going-private transactions,” due to its mission to help Chinese
companies, said John Shum, a Hong Kong-based lawyer at White &
Case LLP.  Feng Qihua, a spokeswoman at  China Development Bank , didn’t
return an e-mailed message and phone call seeking comment on its
loans to Chinese companies delisting in the U.S.  ’High Risk’  Fushi Copperweld’s shares have gained 12.3 percent to $8.95
since the company said on June 28 that it agreed to be bought
for $9.50 a share. Its stock had fallen to a low in April at
$5.81 as Muddy Waters accused the Beijing-based manufacturer of
overstating production and possibly falsifying financial
statements in a narrated slide show. The manufacturer “presents
a high risk of fraud,” and overstated production at one of its
factories by almost 13-fold, Muddy Waters said.  The company denied all the claims, which it called “vague
and non-specific,” in a statement on April 11.  Hong Kong-based private-equity firm Abax Global Capital
Ltd. and Fushi Copperweld chairman and co-chief executive
officer Li Fu will acquire the company with a loan provided by
CDB, according to a June 28 statement. CDB is an anchor investor
for Abax’s yuan-denominated private equity fund, according to
its website, providing capital and “access to deal sourcing
through its extensive local network.”  “There are a few hundred Chinese companies listed in the
U.S. and you’ve got to believe if it’s normal distribution of
quality, there has got to be good ones as well as bad ones,”
Donald Yang, a managing partner at Abax in Hong Kong, said by
phone.  Disputed Reports  Messages left at Fushi Copperweld’s general phone line at
headquarters and with Thomas Horton, global marketing director,
seeking comment on the financing were not immediately returned.  Harbin Electric Inc., a maker of electric motors in
northeast China that was also listed on the  Nasdaq , went private
in November in a buyout financed by CDB.  The company’s stock  slid  in August after Citron Research
said it “fabricated customers” and overstated revenue from
corporations including Guiyang Putian Logistics Technology Co.
and Daqing Xinchengtai Technology Co.  The Citron report was a “patchwork of fabricated evidence,
falsehoods, selective use of information, and clearly biased and
dishonest reporting,” Harbin Electric Chief Executive Officer
and Chairman Yang Tianfu said in a statement responding to the
allegations.  ’Smoking Guns’  A person who answered the company’s main line yesterday
said no one was immediately available to comment.  Investors received 20 percent more than they would have if
they had sold their shares at the closing price on the day
before the offer by company founder Yang Tianfu and Hong Kong-
based Abax. The bid price of $24 per share was more than 11
percent less than the stock’s peak above $27 in 2007, according
to the data.  China Development Bank’s Hong Kong branch financed the
privatization with a $400 million loan, at 3.5 percentage points
over the London interbank offered rate for the first 36 months,
rising to 4.5 percent points thereafter.  “That was one that if it had gone much further everyone
was confident they were going to find a lot more smoking guns,”
DAC’s Groves said.  The deal followed the CDB-funded privatization of Shenzhen-
based China Security & Surveillance Technology Inc. in
September. The offer of $6.50 a share represented a gain of 58.5
percent on the previous day’s close.  ’Tainted Glasses’  CDB doesn’t take deposits and raises money by selling bonds
that have similar credit ratings as the Chinese government. The
lender is the second-biggest bond issuer after the Ministry of
Finance.  “People see the Chinese companies with tainted glasses,
they start to wonder if there are any accounting scandals,”
said  A.T. Kearney ’s Chng. “It’s typical market behavior, you
basically classify the entire sector into one.”  Shareholders of China TransInfo, which provides
transportation management systems for government agencies, were
offered a price of $5.8 a  share  by TransCloud Co., a Cayman
Islands company owned by its CEO Xia Shudong. The offer
represented a 12.6 percent premium over its close on Feb. 17,
the last trading day before it announced it had received a
going-private proposal.  “The debt financing is very important in closing these
transactions,” Skadden’s Huang said. “Without the debt
leverage the founders themselves really are not very keen to
help the private-equity firms to get the deal done.”  Zhou Fan, China TransInfo’s head of  investor relations , did
not immediately reply to e-mailed questions concerning the
financing for the delisting.  “The tricky part is knowing which of these companies are
really undervalued and which may have some level of fraud going
on,” David Grimm, a partner at Paul Hastings LLP in Hong Kong,
said in a June 15 telephone interview. “The Chinese companies
listed in the U.S have all been tarred with the same brush.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  