-- Youku Leads ADRs’ Decline on Trade Data: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-07-10T20:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/tudou-leads-longest-slump-in-month-on-imports-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  traded in the U.S.
posted the longest losing streak in a month and  Youku Inc. (YOKU)  sank
after slower-than-estimated imports added to evidence that the
world’s second-largest economy is flagging.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in  New York  fell for a third day, dropping 1.8
percent to 87.97 yesterday. Video website operators Youku and
 Tudou Holdings Ltd. (TUDO)  tumbled at least 4 percent after the Xinhua
News Agency said the nation is planning an anti-pornography
campaign focused on videos and books.  Ambow Education Holding
Ltd. (AMBO)  extended a six-day slump as Macquarie Securities Ltd.
reduced its price estimate on the shares.  China ’s 6.3 percent increase in June imports was below the
11 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 32
economists.  Export growth  also slowed from May, putting the
government further at risk of missing its goal of 10 percent
growth in trade this year. The government said on July 9 the
annual inflation rate fell to 2.2 percent in June, the slowest
pace in more than two years.  Chinese stocks have “further downside from here,” Luiz
Soares, who helps manage $2.5 billion in emerging market
equities at BlackRock Financial Management Inc., said in a phone
interview in New York. “The data that keeps coming out in China
points to more softness. It’s not that things are falling apart,
but that it’s incrementally decelerating.”  China ETF Sinks  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slid 1.9 percent to $32.43 in
a four-day decline, the longest period of losses since May. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of mainland stocks retreated 0.3
percent to a six-month low of 2,164.44. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  of U.S. shares declined 0.8 percent to 1,341.47 amid
concern about corporate earnings.  Youku, owner of China’s most popular online video site
which announced in March an acquisition of the smaller Tudou,
tumbled 5.1 percent to $19.07, the lowest price in almost six
months. Tudou lost 4.7 percent to $29.33, the weakest level in
three months. The  acquisition  is expected to complete in the
third quarter, the companies said in a March statement.  China’s National Office Against Pornographic and Illegal
Publications is planning an anti-pornography campaign, scheduled
from mid-July to the end of November, focused on videos, books,
magazines and online content, Xinhua News Agency said yesterday.  “Operators will have to screen user-generated content for
violence and sexually inappropriate video,” Andy Yeung, a New
York-based analyst for Oppenheimer & Co., said by phone
yesterday. “Investors are nervous about the impact on costs, on
the user experience and whether there will be other regulations
in the future.”  Ambow Price Target  Ambow, a Beijing-based tutoring and test preparation
provider, dropped for the sixth day, losing 6.5 percent to
$2.60, the lowest level on record.  Macquarie cut Ambow’s 12-month price target to $6 a share
from $10 a share on July 9. Ambow Education  reported  a $12.7
million net loss for the first quarter on July 4, compared with
$2 million net income for the same period in 2011.  “The company changed accounting rules in revenue
recognition, which was the main reason for the first-quarter
loss,” Tian X Hou, founder and chief executive officer of T.H.
Capital LLC, a research firm focusing on U.S.-listed Chinese
stocks, said by phone yesterday from  San Francisco .  Dangdang Tumbles  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , known as Dangdang, sank 5.6
percent to a one-month low of $5.77 after China’s National
Business Daily reported the online retailer withdrew Casio
watches from its website.  Dangdang took Casio watches offline and accepted customers’
returns after China’s Central Television reported in late June
and this week that the Casio-branded watches on its website were
fake, the National Business Daily  reported  yesterday, without
saying how it obtained the information.  Calls and e-mails to Dangdang’s press office in Beijing
after hours weren’t immediately returned.  China Petroleum and Chemical Corp. ,  Asia ’s largest refiner
known as Sinopec, declined to the lowest level since September
2010 after a five-day loss. Its American depositary receipts
slid 2.1 percent to $82.69 yesterday, trading 0.3 percent below
its Hong Kong stock, from a premium of 0.6 percent a day
earlier. Each ADR represents 100 underlying shares of Sinopec.  China, the world’s second-biggest oil consumer, will reduce
gasoline and diesel prices for the third time since May,
returning pump rates to levels last seen in December 2010.  ADRs of  PetroChina Co. (857) , the nation’s second-largest refiner
and its biggest oil producer, fell 1.6 percent to $120.87, the
lowest this year. Its ADRs traded 1.2 percent below the Hong
Kong stock, the biggest  discount  since June 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  