-- Munis Prove Mighty Over All Assets for Second Year: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-07-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/munis-prove-mighty-over-all-assets-for-second-year-muni-credit.html
U.S. state and local debt is on its
way to beating stocks, Treasuries, corporate bonds and
commodities for a second straight year when adjusting for
volatility, the longest win streak since 2006.  With defaults declining and tax revenue improving, the $3.7
trillion municipal market is proving the safest haven amid
 Europe ’s debt crisis and signs of slowing global economic
growth. Part of the reason is who owns city and state debt:
Federal Reserve data show about two-thirds is in the hands of
individual investors, who are less inclined to shift assets
between world markets.  “Munis do get more of this tranquility, because just as
they don’t enjoy the global flows in, they don’t succumb to the
outflows,” said  John Dillon , chief municipal strategist in
Purchase, New York, at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, which
manages more than $150 billion in state and local debt.  Municipal debt has returned 2.2 percent this year through
July 6 after accounting for trading swings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Company
bonds have earned 1.6 percent by that measure, compared with
about 0.7 percent for both the  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index and
Treasuries. Commodities generated a loss. In 2010, munis trailed
the group.  Investors seeking tax-exempt income have added $15.7
billion this year to municipal mutual funds, the most for the
period since 2009, Lipper US Fund Flows data show. Bondholders
are putting to work a record wave of about $142 billion in the
three months through July from bonds that are coming due or
being refinanced, according to Citigroup Inc.  Risk Adjustment  City and state debt also gave better risk-adjusted returns
in 2011. The securities gained about 4.4 percent last year when
adjusted for volatility, even as investors withdrew the most
money in two decades from muni mutual funds on concern that
fiscal stress following the 18-month recession that ended in
June 2009 would push up local defaults.  About $17 billion flowed out of the funds in 2011 after
banking analyst  Meredith Whitney  predicted in a December 2010
broadcast of CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” that municipal defaults
would total “hundreds of billions of dollars” in the coming
year.  Instead, state tax collections have risen for nine straight
quarters, according to the Nelson A.  Rockefeller Institute  of
Government in  Albany , New York. The boost has helped trim first-
time defaults to 39 issuers in the first half of this year,
compared with 57 in the same period of 2011, according to
Municipal Market Advisors.  Default List  “It’s a comfort to investors that defaults and
bankruptcies don’t appear rampant and don’t appear to be headed
that way,” Dillon said. “Other than the names everyone knows
about in the marketplace, there are very few new names getting
added to that list.”  Stockton,  California , became the biggest U.S. city to file
for Chapter 9 protection in June. The housing market’s collapse
left the city of 292,000 with mounting retiree health-care costs
and an eroding tax base in the recession’s wake, while
accounting errors overstated municipal revenue. Its budget for
this year calls for withholding $10.2 million in debt service.  The development hasn’t pushed up local-government yields.
Since Stockton filed, the yield on 10-year AAA debt has declined
by about 0.02 percentage point, according to a Bloomberg
Valuation  index .  Safe Class  “Munis are still seen as a fairly safe investment class by
retail investors, even with all the headlines,” said Craig Pernick, a Bethesda, Maryland-based senior managing director at
Chevy Chase Trust Co., which oversees about $1.1 billion in
municipals. “When you compare them to Europe and the rest of
the world, municipalities look pretty good.”  Ten-year Treasury yields hovering near  record lows  on
indications the economic rebound is cooling have helped suppress
 interest rates  on munis.  The  International Monetary Fund  will lower its estimate for
global growth this year on weakness in investment, jobs and
manufacturing in areas including Europe, the U.S. and  Brazil ,
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said last week.  The  ratio  of muni interest rates to federal yields has been
above 100 percent since May 16, the longest span since October,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The ratio has averaged about 93
percent for the past decade.  “A lot of times muni rates haven’t moved as much, but the
Treasuries have moved more,” said John Hallacy, head of muni
research at Bank of America in New York. “That’s what’s moving
the Treasury ratios around -- Treasuries dancing around munis.”  The risk-adjusted return is calculated by dividing total
return by volatility, or the degree of daily price-swing
variation, giving a measure of income per unit of risk. The
returns aren’t annualized. Higher volatility means an asset’s
price can swing dramatically in a short period, increasing the
prospect for unexpected losses.  Following are pending sales:  ILLINOIS plans to issue about $1.5 billion in revenue bonds
for its unemployment-insurance fund as soon as next week,
according to an offering document. The proceeds will repay
federal government advances. S&P rates the debt AA, third-
highest. (Updated July 10)  METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY plans to offer $500
million of revenue bonds as soon as this week to help finance
capital projects. Moody’s Investors Service rates the sale A2,
sixth-highest. (Added July 6)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  