-- Murdoch, Moguls Head to Sun Valley as Mobile Shapes Media
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-07-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/murdoch-moguls-head-to-sun-valley-as-mobile-shapes-media.html
Media executives gathering at Allen
& Co.’s conference this week in Sun Valley, Idaho, will look for
opportunities to capitalize on an entertainment environment
shaped by the shift toward mobile and online viewing.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s success with the iPad, iPhone and iTunes store
has spawned competition from tech companies trying to catch up,
from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  to  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  The
trick for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Rupert Murdoch and Hollywood studios like
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  is to capture new sales without destroying the
traditional markets that still dominate their businesses.  “Content companies are the arms dealers in this race,”
said Shahid Khan, chairman of MediaMorph Inc., a New York-based
media advisory and venture firm. “They don’t care which
ecosystem wins the war as long as the Amazons and Googles are
buying weapons.”  The annual gathering, held at the Sun Valley Resort in the
Sawtooth National Forest since 1983, provides a relaxed setting
for moguls such as Murdoch, the chief executive officer of New
York-based News Corp., to discuss deals and interact with tech
figures, such as Facebook Inc. founder  Mark Zuckerberg , whose
products are shaping viewer habits.  No device maker has had a bigger impact than Apple in
freeing consumers to watch movies and TV anywhere, anytime.
Microsoft is mounting a challenge with the Xbox console and the
Surface tablet, as is Google, with YouTube, Google TV and the
market-leading Android operating system.  Owning Ecosystem  “Everything you see will be around the battle to own the
ecosystem -- devices, operating systems and content,” Khan
said. “The only company that has that end to end is Apple.”  Tim Cook, Apple’s CEO, is scheduled to attend Sun Valley,
according to a person with knowledge of his plans who declined
to speak publicly. Some of media’s largest deals have been
hatched or advanced at the retreat, including  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
2011 purchase of NBC Universal.  For the moment, entertainment companies have the upper
hand, according to Khan. Industry leaders, including  CBS Corp. (CBS) 
CEO  Leslie Moonves  and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Jeffrey Bewkes, both
on the attendee list, have used the popularity of their TV shows
and films to wring licensing revenue from the technology
companies.  “It’s the Apples and the Googles who are battling to get
in front of the consumer,” Khan said.  Content Challenge  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, controls about 63
percent of the worldwide tablet market, researcher IDC said in
June, while the iPhone held 32 percent of the U.S. smartphone
market in the three months to May, trailing only Android at 51
percent, according to ComScore Inc. The company is also working
on a TV set that may be unveiled this year and released in 2013,
 Gene Munster , a Piper Jaffray Cos. analyst, said in May.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, is stronger in the
home, with more than 66 million of its Xbox video-game consoles
sold worldwide and more than 40 million active Xbox Live
subscribers using the device to access films, TV and other
entertainment.  “Everyone’s still trying to figure out the content
portion,” said Anthony LeCour, a New York-based media
investment banker with Compass Advisers LLP. “A lot of the
deals now are about taking that content or buying them out and
layering them on to their system.”  This year’s Allen & Co. conference begins with no shortage
of deals on the table.  Vivendi SA (VIV) , the Paris-based owner of Universal Music Group,
has put its 61 percent stake in  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , the
world’s largest video-game company, on the market, a person with
knowledge of the matter said last month. Activision CEO Bobby Kotick is among those invited.  Newspaper Shopping  Publishing assets have also received attention in recent
weeks as investors debate whether they can build enough digital
subscriptions on devices like the iPad or Amazon’s Kindle.  News Corp.’s Murdoch heads to the conference with sons
Lachlan and James two weeks after deciding to spin off his
publishing division, including the Wall Street Journal -- a move
reflecting the low valuation investors place on the shrinking
newspaper industry.  At the same time, billionaire value investor  Warren
Buffett , who attended last year and helped cement Disney’s
purchase of Capital Cities/ABC weeks after the 1995 retreat, has
been buying newspapers, betting local publications can thrive in
markets where there is little competition.  “News companies are trying to work out deals that will
allow them get more people to come online to their content,”
LeCour said. “The  New York Times (NYT)  is trying to do that -- you’ll
see more joint ventures on this front.”  Xbox Music  In a move designed to extend its hold on home
entertainment, Microsoft plans to let customers of its Xbox
music service stream songs and store content on company servers,
people familiar with its plans said last month.  Microsoft is in talks with major record labels on the
needed rights. Sony CEO Kazuo Hirai is among those invited to
Sun Valley, and his music division is a potential partner.  On the mobile front, where Apple has sold more than 365
million devices using its iOS operating system, Microsoft
announced in June it will make its own tablet computer this
year. The company also said it plans to take a more active role
in hardware makers’ designs for Windows-powered smartphones.  Google Play  Google’s Android mobile operating system has been a winner
for  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , with Galaxy model phones that are
selling at a rate of about 380 every minute, the Suwon, South
Korea-based company said in a recent earnings report.  Google is focused on improving its marketplace for Android
applications, games and entertainment, called Google Play, to
make it easier to download content to its Nexus 7-inch tablet,
scheduled for release this month, and other devices.  With content, Google’s efforts have gone more slowly.
Consumers mostly shunned early products using the Mountain View,
California-based company’s Google TV operating system because
media companies blocked access to their programming. Its YouTube
unit is bypassing studios and funding some original shows, as
are  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)   Offering more professional videos is “what the major
multimedia companies are moving towards,” LeCour said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  