-- Luxembourg’s Mersch, Juncker Take Euro Posts; Regling Wins ESM
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-07-10T01:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/luxembourg-s-mersch-juncker-take-euro-posts-regling-wins-esm.html
Luxembourg, the richest country in
the 17-nation euro zone, claimed two top economic-policy
positions and  Germany  held on to a third in the climax of months
of wrangling over high-level appointments.  Luxembourg’s  Yves Mersch ,  Europe ’s longest-serving central
banker, was named to the European Central Bank’s Executive
Board. Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker ’s term as chairman of
euro finance meetings was extended and Germany’s Klaus Regling,
head of the euro-area’s temporary bailout fund, was named to run
the permanent one that starts operations soon.  The appointments at a meeting of euro-area finance
ministers in Brussels end five months of bickering over
personnel, a reflection of the power politics and national
egotisms that have frustrated attempts to deal with the crisis.  Mersch “is really independent,” Juncker told reporters in
Brussels early today after the ministers met for nine hours.
“Very often I was the victim of his independent statements.”  Mersch will take the ECB post vacated by Spain’s Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo, stripping  Spain  of its claim to a
permanent seat on the Frankfurt-based bank’s six-member
Executive Board. Mersch defeated a Spanish nominee, Antonio Sainz de Vicuna, head of legal services at the ECB, as well as
Mitja Gaspari, former head of Slovenia’s central bank.  French Election  France ’s presidential election in May had prolonged the
haggling over the package of appointments, leaving an ECB board
seat empty for the first time when Gonzalez-Paramo’s term ended
on May 31.  Spain’s leverage to push through its lower-profile
candidate was hampered by its pursuit at the same time of as
much as 100 billion euros ($123 billion) in aid for its banks.  As Luxembourg’s representative on the ECB’s wider policy-
setting council, Mersch, 62, has earned a reputation as an
inflation hawk. He is the only central banker in office
continuously since the euro debuted in 1999.  “Mersch will do his bit to reinforce the reputation of the
ECB as an inflation fighter,” said  Christian Schulz , senior
economist at Berenberg Bank in  London . “That could make markets
nervous at times.”  With the ECB now run by  Mario Draghi  of Italy with Vitor Constancio of  Portugal  as vice president, northern countries
backed Luxembourg’s candidate as a way of arresting a perceived
shift of power toward southern Europe.  Top Rated  Luxembourg is one of four euro-zone countries to emerge
from two years of fighting the debt crisis with an AAA credit
rating still intact.  Mersch’s arrival will leave two top-rated countries,
Luxembourg and Germany, with board representation. The remaining
seats are held by Italy, Portugal, France and  Belgium . The six
members are joined once a month in  Frankfurt  by the 17 heads of
national central banks to set  interest rates .  Mersch requires an endorsement by all 27 European Union
finance ministers, followed by a European Parliament hearing,
non-binding vote and final confirmation by euro-area leaders
before starting an eight-year term. The parliament has no power
to block ECB appointments and has never issued a negative
recommendation. Its next weekly session starts Sept. 10.  Juncker, who said he will step down in late 2012 or early
2013, was present at the creation of the euro, serving as
Luxembourg’s finance minister during the Maastricht Treaty
negotiations of 1991. He became prime minister in 1995 and has
run euro finance meetings since 2005.  ‘Temporary Contract’  “He’s not on a temporary contract,” French Finance
Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said. “He has a mandate.”  A speaker of French, German, English and the national
Luxembourgish tongue, Juncker was a go-between in negotiating
euro deficit rules in 1997 and in dealing with a German and
French bid to water them down in 2005.  Juncker has supported a hybrid of policy proposals, pairing
Germany’s insistence on fiscal rigor with backing for a gradual
move toward a joint borrowing system.  The appointment of Regling, 61, to run the permanent
European Stability Mechanism ensures continuity in the
management of rescue borrowing and aid distributions. A former
German Finance Ministry and European Commission official,
Regling has been in charge of the temporary fund, the European
Financial Stability Facility.  The startup of the 500 billion-euro ESM is delayed due to a
German high-court ruling on a temporary injunction, due this
week.  Italy  also has yet to ratify it. The ESM will be built up
as the temporary fund is wound down.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  