-- Viacom Says DirecTV Users Lose 26 Channels in Impasse
-- B y   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g
-- 2012-07-10T20:43:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/viacom-says-impasse-means-directv-users-will-lose-26-channels.html
Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  said an impasse in
contract talks with  DirecTV (DTV)  may mean almost 20 million
subscribers will lose access to 26 channels, including  MTV ,
Nickelodeon and  Comedy Central .  A blackout will occur at midnight tonight if the two sides
don’t reach a new fee agreement, New York-based Viacom said in a
blog  posting  yesterday. The companies may agree to keep talking
past the deadline. Viacom is demanding DirecTV take its channels
down during any continuation of talks, a DirecTV spokesman,
Darris Gringeri, said in an e-mail.  The standoff marks the latest fee tussle between a pay-TV
provider and programmer, after such fights have blacked out
channels to millions of subscribers. Viacom said on its blog
programs from its networks amount to 20 percent of viewers at El
Segundo, California-based DirecTV, the largest U.S. satellite
service. DirecTV says Viacom’s ratings are down.  “It has been inconceivable that any distributor could drop
Viacom’s networks, mostly because of Nickelodeon,” Todd Juenger, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in  New York , wrote
in a note in June. “But ratings are down, often significantly,
at networks representing 71 percent of Viacom affiliate fees.”  Viacom  fell  1.6 percent to $46.86 at the close in New York.
The Class B stock has gained 3.2 percent this year. DirecTV
declined 0.3 percent to $48.69 and has climbed 14 percent this
year.  Robert Mercer , a spokesman for DirecTV, said in an
interview the 26 channels include nine high-definition versions
of the 17 Viacom networks carried by the company.  Contract Talks  The parties have been negotiating for several months and
extended their current seven-year agreement past the original
June 30 expiration while talks continued, Viacom said.  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  last month replaced channels from  AMC
Networks Inc. (AMCX)  on its system. Those channels include AMC, We TV,
IFC and the Sundance Channel. The move by Dish cost those
channels 14 million potential viewers.  In its own posting, DirecTV said Viacom is demanding a 30
percent increase in fees over the term of a new contract,
amounting to more than $1 billion in additional costs. Viacom
said its fees account for less than 5 percent of the satellite
service’s programming expenses.  “The rate increase we’re asked for constitutes a few
pennies per month per subscriber,” Mark Jafar, a Viacom
spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  Viacom has enlisted some of its stars, including Comedy
Central’s Daniel Tosh and  Stephen Colbert , as well as Snooki
from MTV’s “Jersey Shore” in a commercial urging DirecTV
subscribers to petition the provider not to drop the shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Blessing in New York at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  