-- Vuitton $11 Million Diamond Seen Elevating Luxury Brand: Retail
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-07-10T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/vuitton-11-million-diamond-seen-elevating-luxury-brand-retail.html
On the celebrated Place Vendome in
Paris, the newest name in jewels is the world’s largest in bags.  Louis Vuitton , known for its laminated canvas handbags, has
opened its first standalone watch and jewelry store at a time
Europeans are tightening their belts. The goal: to bolster
Vuitton’s image as a purveyor of high-end  luxury goods ,
particularly among free-spending Chinese who have a particular
affinity for necklaces and bracelets made in  France .  As Vuitton products become more ubiquitous, the Place
Vendome store “is an attempt to anchor the brand at the highest
possible level,” said  Luca Solca , global head of European
 equities  at CA Cheuvreux. Owner  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton
SA (MC)  is a master, he said, “at navigating the thin line between
becoming mass luxury and preserving desirability.”  The shop’s opening earlier this month, on the Paris square
that’s home to the Ritz hotel and fine jewelers such as  Van
Cleef & Arpels , may also be an attempt by LVMH Chairman  Bernard Arnault  to challenge Cartier, the Paris-based maker of 750-euro
($924) wedding rings and 44,000-euro diamond necklaces owned by
 Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , LVMH’s biggest rival.  “Cartier and the appeal of the brand are one of the very
few potential threats that LVMH has,” Solca said.  Flower Diamond  Vuitton, which  Barclays Capital  estimates had  sales  of 6.5
billion euros last year, is seeking new sources of revenue as
mainly Chinese travelers prop up wilting local demand for its
410-euro Maryland red suede moccasins and 216-euro dog collars
in  Europe .  Sales of high-end watches have also slowed in recent months
in  China  amid weaker economic growth in the world’s most
populous nation,  Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. (3389)  said this week. Yet part
of this can be attributed to consumers shopping abroad because
of favorable currency fluctuations, according to  Hengdeli Vice
President Tan Li.  The two-story boutique, which has its own workshop, boasts
a 9 million-euro diamond cut in the shape of Vuitton’s flower
logo and a diamond-and-ruby encrusted ring called the Champs-
Elysees that costs 75,000 euros, about 140 times the price of
one of Vuitton’s bestselling totes, the 540-euro Neverfull.  Though Vuitton pushed into fine jewelry three years ago
after introducing lower-priced bijoux in 2001 and Swiss-made
watches in 2002, “opening such a store in Place Vendome is a
sort of brand statement,” said  Armando Branchini , founder of
Milan-based consultant Intercorporate.  Place Vendome, in the heart of the French capital, has been
occupied by some of Europe’s oldest and most expensive jewelers
since Boucheron opened there in 1893. Now, brands including
Blancpain, Piaget and LVMH-owned Chaumet have stores in the
square overlooked by a statue of Napoleon atop a bronze column.  Entering the Temple  By joining them, Vuitton, which started as a trunk maker on
an adjacent road in 1854, is “entering the temple,” said
Branchini. “For the final consumer, the brand is going to be
perceived in a more exclusive way.”  That’s important because the so-called absolute segment of
the luxury market is growing faster than the “aspirational”
part, where Vuitton’s leather goods are positioned, according to
Bain. The location also helps differentiate Vuitton from other
clothing and accessories makers that may have added bejeweled
bracelets, Branchini said.  “Ultimately, the  Louis Vuitton  bags, purses and wallets
have a far lower transaction value,” said Jonathan De Mello,
head of retail consultancy at CBRE Group Inc. Having a dedicated
watch and jewelry boutique “fits with their strategy of
segmenting their customers in different stores,” he said.  Sales of watches and jewelry are set to outpace the luxury
sector’s growth through 2014 after rising the fastest of all
categories last year, Bain & Co. estimates. They are also two of
the top three products on which Chinese travelers spend when
visiting Europe, according to tourist shopping specialist Global
Blue.  Neighborhood Watch  “Standing up to Cartier” may be another motive for the
store as LVMH also invests in specialist watchmakers such as
Zenith and jewelers like Bulgari, which it bought last year for
4.3 billion euros, said Solca.  Cartier, with a shop next door to the new Vuitton boutique,
generated sales of about 4.3 billion euros in 2011, according to
Rene Weber, an analyst at Bank Vontobel in Zurich. The jeweler,
which has expanded into  leather goods , is one of the watch and
jewelry brands most likely to be purchased by Chinese shoppers,
though Vuitton -- LVMH’s biggest and best-known label -- is the
luxury brand they desire the most, according to Bain.  LVMH’s watch and jewelry division, which excludes Vuitton,
posted revenue of 1.9 billion euros in 2011, or 8 percent of the
total. Sales at the division climbed 17 percent in the first
quarter of this year, excluding acquisitions and currency moves.
That compares with 12 percent growth in fashion and leather
goods sales, which fell in  Spain ,  Italy  and  Greece  on a local
basis, LVMH Finance Director Jean-Jacques Guiony said April 18.  Retail Destination  Like  Galeries Lafayette , a department store near Place
Vendome that attracts more visitors a day than the Eiffel Tower,
and Vuitton’s flagship store on the  Champs Elysees  that shoppers
wait outside to enter, the jewelry boutique will probably become
another retail destination in Paris, according to De Mello.  While the increase in traffic may benefit all the stores in
the area, the position of Vuitton next to Cartier and opposite
PPR SA-owned Boucheron is a statement of intent, he said.  “They are their arch rivals in many respects,” he said.
Vuitton “will compete for the same consumers when they” arrive
in Place Vendome.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  