-- WellPoint Deal Shows Medicaid Prospects Trump Court View
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-07-10T20:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/wellpoint-deal-shows-medicaid-prospects-trump-court-view.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP) ’s $4.9 billion deal
for Amerigroup Corp. is a bet that health insurers can profit
from Medicaid coverage for the poor even after the U.S. Supreme
Court put the program’s future growth up in the air.  WellPoint, the second-largest U.S. plan, said yesterday it
would buy the rival carrier for $92 a share in cash, a 43
percent premium to Amerigroup’s closing price July 6. Investors
responded by sending Medicaid insurers  WellCare Health Plans
Inc. (WCG)  and  Centene Corp. (CNC)  to their biggest gains in years.  WellPoint Chief Executive Officer Angela Braly’s sees
“unprecedented growth” for Medicaid plans, even as Republican
governors vow to resist an expansion pushed by President  Barack Obama  that would add as many as 17 million new members. If
Obama’s plan isn’t implemented fully, the industry still may
gain tens of billions of dollars in business as cash-strapped
states turn to insurers to manage their programs, company
executives said.  “This deal is all about future revenue growth,” Carl McDonald, a Citigroup analyst in  New York , said of the
Amerigroup acquisition in a note to clients. “The Medicaid
expansion in 2014 is the smallest of the growth opportunities
the industry has.”  The Affordable Care Act, passed in 2010, would expand the
joint state-federal health program for the poor by raising the
amount of income people can make and qualify for coverage. While
that may add $80 billion in new revenue by 2016, insurers will
gain $150 billion more in expanding services to existing
members, said Jesse Hunter, an executive vice-president at St.
Louis-based Centene, at a June 14 conference.  ‘Creating Value’  “We have an expectation and a belief that the
opportunities in Medicaid are going to continue no matter
what,” Braly told reporters yesterday. “We’re creating value
for the states and beneficiaries and that is a compelling story
no matter what happens.”  Insurers’ shares yesterday reflected that potential.
WellCare, based in Tampa,  Florida , jumped 18 percent in New York
trading for its biggest one-day advance since July 2008. Centene
rose 20 percent in its biggest increase since October 2006.  Long
Beach , California-based  Molina (MOH)  Healthcare Inc., which also
specializes in Medicaid, increased 18 percent.  WellCare rose 1.1 percent to $63.24 at the close of trading
today in New York, Centene declined 1 percent to $34.41, and
Molina dropped 3.3 percent to $26.22. WellPoint, based in
Indianapolis, fell 1.3 percent to $61.14.  Wild Card  Industry predictions aside, the Supreme Court threw a wild
card onto the table with its June 28 ruling. In an opinion that
upheld most of the law, the justices said the administration
can’t strip current Medicaid funding from states that don’t want
to comply with the expansion.  Republican governors in Florida,  South Carolina ,  Louisiana ,
 Iowa  and  Mississippi  have said they’ll opt out, and others have
expressed skepticism with Obama’s prescription. In  Texas ,
Governor  Rick Perry  called the court’s approval of the law “a
stomach punch to the American economy” and said yesterday he’d
decline to expand Medicaid.  While the law requires the federal government to pay at
least 90 percent of the added costs, the governors said they
don’t trust Congress to maintain that funding, or don’t want to
extend a system that already eats up too much of their budgets.  Romney Vow  “If you were looking for certainty, you didn’t get it”
from the court ruling, said Chris Rigg, an analyst at
Susquehanna Financial Group in New York, in a telephone
interview. “If you get a grass roots movement by Tea Party
types telling a conservative governor, ‘you’re not doing the
Medicaid expansion or we’ll run you out of office,’ he may not
do it. There’s no way to say for sure.”  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican presidential
nominee, has vowed to repeal the entire health law if elected,
as have the party’s leaders in Congress.  Florida and Texas were projected to add 3 million people to
Medicaid, said Vern Smith, managing principal at Health
Management Associates, a Lansing, Michigan, consultant to states
and health plans.  Almost all of the added members would be on plans managed
by insurers, he said.  “There are many states where it is automatic, they will do
it without question,” Smith said. “There are some others where
the politics might trump the economics and the health policy
objective of universal coverage.”  November Elections  Molina, which operates Medicaid plans in nine states
including California, Texas and Florida, was “looking at
probably tripling” its enrollment before the court ruling,
Chief Financial Officer John Molina said.  Now, “it’s probably going to be less,” he said in a
telephone interview. One caveat, he said, is if governors who
say they won’t expand the program change their minds after the
November elections.  “Part of me says it’s really hard for states to turn down
those kinds of federal dollars, because states and counties
still have responsibility for health care for these folks,”
said Molina, whose father founded the company in 1980.  For WellPoint, the agreement to buy Amerigroup would have
happened no matter how the  Supreme Court  ruled on the 2010
health-care law that includes the Medicaid expansion, Braly said
yesterday on a conference call with analysts.  That provision, set to take effect in 2014, “is only one
element here,” she said.  Termination Fee  WellPoint approached Amerigroup about the  acquisition  and
made a high offer to pre-empt any other bidders, a person
familiar with the deal said in a telephone interview.
Amerigroup, based in  Virginia  Beach, Virginia, wasn’t for sale
or running an auction, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the discussions were private.  WellPoint may receive a termination fee of $73 million if
Amerigroup finds another acquirer, according to a regulatory
filing today. Amerigroup may be required to pay $146 million if
the company breaks off the deal for other reasons, the WellPoint
filing said.  It’s a deal that “makes sense,” wrote  Jason Gurda , a
Leerink Swann & Co. analyst in New York, in a note to investors
yesterday. It “diversifies WellPoint’s revenue away from its
commercial business while expanding the company’s participation
in the substantial Medicaid growth opportunity.”  Dual Eligibles  WellPoint currently gets about a quarter of its operating
income from plans sold to small businesses and individuals,
markets where profit margins are likely to suffer under new
regulations from Obama’s health-care law, Gurda said. The trade-
off in the deal may be less opportunity for share buybacks and
dividends, he wrote.  For WellPoint and its rivals, the biggest prize may be the
so-called dual eligibles, people covered by Medicaid and
Medicare, the U.S. program for the elderly and disabled. They
tend to be the oldest and sickest patients and governments are
desperate for a solution to control their costs, said
WellPoint’s Braly.  About 9 million people fall into the category, accounting
for $300 million in health-care spending a year.  “What we’re seeing at the state level is we’re reaching a
tipping point where they recognize the value of private-sector
involvement,” said James Carlson,  Amerigroup’s (AGP)  CEO, on a call
with reporters. “Regardless of whatever happens with the
elections, those facts remain,”  Sales Estimates  Analysts still expect Medicaid insurers to thrive under the
health law. Amerigroup may see last year’s revenue double to
$12.4 billion in 2014, when the additional coverage is due to
kick in, according to  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg before
yesterday’s deal. Centene’s sales may double to $11.5 billion
while Molina is expected to boost revenue by 65 percent to $7.87
billion, analysts estimate.  The law, passed by Democrats over united Republican
opposition, ordered states to open the program to people making
as much as 133 percent of the federal poverty limit, or about
$30,657 for a family of four this year.  Based on current contracts, Amerigroup may have the most to
lose if states stay on the sidelines, said Rigg, the Susquehanna
analyst. Eighty-five percent of its enrollment in is Republican-
led states, with 47 percent in Texas, Louisiana and Florida,
Rigg said. For Centene, the figures are 91 percent and 49
percent, he said.  Incumbent contractors usually do well at winning new
business in a state, so existing business is a good proxy for
where the companies are most likely to expand, Rigg said.  Eventually, Medicaid expansion will probably go forward
everywhere, Rigg said. Health plans, hospitals and doctors will
lobby hard to persuade state officials to participate. For now,
the analyst said, investors will have to deal with some
uncertainty.  “At this point, the consensus is probably correct that one
way or another the Medicaid expansion will happen,” he said.
“It’s just at what political costs, and when?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
   awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  