-- Western Wind Falls on Partial U.S. Grant Receipt: Toronto Mover
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-07-10T20:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/western-wind-falls-on-partial-u-s-grant-receipt-toronto-mover.html
Western Wind Energy Corp. (WND) , a
Canadian renewable-energy developer with projects in the U.S.
West, fell the most in more than eight months after receiving
only a portion of a grant expected from the U.S. Treasury
Department for a wind farm in California.  The company dropped 9.3 percent to C$1.27 at the close in
Toronto, the most since October 26.  Western Wind was awarded a $78.3 million U.S. grant,
according to a statement today. The Vancouver-based company had
applied for $90.5 million under the Treasury Department’s 1603
cash grant program and plans to appeal to receive the full
amount.  The $12.2 million shortfall may make it harder for Western
Wind to repay short-term loans that are due soon for its 120-
megawatt Windstar project in Tehachapi,  California , and were
expected to be repaid with the Treasury Department grant, John McIlveen, an analyst at Jacob Securities Inc., said in an
interview today. “It puts pressure on them to refinance,” said
McIlveen, who rates the shares a buy.  Western Wind will be able to meet its obligations from
internal operations, Lawrence Casse, a company spokesman, said
in an interview. “Obviously it would be better to have it than
not to have it, but we do think that we’re going to get it.”  The Treasury Department provided only a portion of the
grant because it reclassified the amount that may be sought as
“developer fees,” according to the statement.  Western Wind expects to receive the full grant. “The
government has denied people their full amount and people have
gone back and been successful in increasing the amount,” Chief
Executive Officer Jeffrey Ciachurski said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  