-- West Africa Cocoa Areas to Get Less Rainfall in Next Week
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-10T12:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/west-africa-cocoa-areas-to-get-less-rainfall-in-next-week.html
Ivory Coast  and  Ghana , the world’s
largest cocoa producers, will get less rainfall over the next
seven days as the end of the rainy season approaches, according
to the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.  Coastal areas of top grower Ivory Coast and second-ranking
Ghana will have dry weather through July 17, according to data
on the NOAA  website  today. Most parts of both countries will get
10 to 30 millimeters (0.4 to 1.2 inches), while some areas in
the northern region will get 75 millimeters to 100 millimeters,
the data show. Ivory Coast’s central-western Daloa region, the
nation’s biggest cocoa-growing area geographically, got about 52
millimeters in the June 21 to 30 period.  “It is notable that rains have been heavy, and farmer
prices are low, so the situation does not bode well for
diseases,” Keith Flury, a senior analyst at Rabobank
International in  London , said by e-mail today. “Given the
spotty rain, it is hard to say sun is needed overall, but
certainly some areas got far more rain than average and need sun
to dry out while other areas do not have this need.”  The rainy season usually ends in July, according to
Rabobank.  Dry weather and sun will potentially help the development
of the 2012-13 crop that starts in October. Cocoa demand may
outpace supplies by 73,000 metric tons in the 2012-13 season,
according to Macquarie Group Ltd. That would follow a shortage
of 20,000 tons in the current season.  “Although the pollination phase has been satisfactory in
Ivory Coast, more sunshine is now needed to ensure that the
beans ripen without being attacked by fungus and to produce a
good main harvest from October,”  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in a report e-mailed today.  Mid-Crop  The mid-crop, which usually starts in April, was delayed
this year and there are already signs that it will end sooner
than usual, according to Kona Haque, an analyst at Macquarie in
London. Cocoa deliveries to ports in Ivory Coast dropped by 3.7
percent to 1.24 million tons from the start of the season
through June, according to the International Cocoa Organization.  In Ghana, bean purchases by the regulator Cocobod for the
main crop that ended at the beginning of June fell about 13
percent to 798,736 tons, the ICCO said in a report e-mailed July
6, adding that Ghanaian output has been hurt by “adverse
weather conditions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  