-- What You Can’t Do on Your Presidential Vacation
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-07-10T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/what-you-can-t-do-on-your-presidential-vacation.html
At the end of his summer vacation
last week,  Mitt Romney  got the question inevitable for anyone in
the White House or hoping to get there:  At Bradley’s Hardware in Wolfeboro, New Hampshire, Romney
was asked if, at a time of such “grim economic news,” he should
be vacationing at all. Romney  responded that  if he became
president, he would make sure all Americans get the “capacity to
take a vacation now and then with their loved ones.”  We’re not supposed to begrudge our leaders their time away.
Point taken. What people resent is how politicians carefully
calculate when, where and for how long they’ll take off to ZIP
codes that are cool in the summer, warm in the winter and
generally inaccessible to Joe the Plumber.  On the other hand, catching an overhandled, overgroomed,
and overprotected politico in a body of expensive water is one
of the few chances those of us canoeing in a state park get to
see the man inside the suit. (Or woman inside the pantsuit, as
the case may be; see, for example, Hillary Clinton  mini-golfing 
on  Martha’s Vineyard  in Massachusetts,  hiking  in Wyoming or
 dancing  in her bathing suit in the  U.S. Virgin Islands .) The
 photos  of Romney whooshing across the lake on a water scooter
were so revealing because they were so rare. His thighs are
pasty! His hair moves! He likes turquoise for his swimming
trunks!  Offshoring Elitists  The specter of Romney frolicking (later he was in a
gigantic boat) in sight of his mansion unhinged the editors of
The Wall Street Journal. Not only is the presumptive Republican
nominee squandering a historic opportunity,  they wrote , but just
as President  Barack Obama ’s campaign is successfully defining
Romney as an out-of-touch offshoring elitist hiding money in the
Cayman Islands, “the rich man obliged by vacationing this week
at his lake-side home with a jet-ski cameo.”  The Journal’s editorial page usually celebrates moguls at
play. In Romney’s case it channeled the pain of campaign
operatives who quake at the thought of their principals out of
sight -- and, more important, mobile-phone range. It leads to
nothing but trouble and  embarrassing photographs . Think of  Bill Clinton ’s flabby thighs in swimming trunks, Obama shirtlessly
surfing in  Hawaii ,  Jimmy Carter  and the killer rabbit, John Kerry windsurfing after he blew in the wind over voting for
funding for the war in  Iraq  before he voted against it.  Normal people -- the most significant voting bloc -- don’t
windsurf, or like people who do, or so pollsters would have us
believe. The Vineyard combines everything normal people don’t
like: swells from the Acela corridor and pointy-heads from the
 Ivy League  aboard non-motorized boats. Clinton aide Dick Morris
was so alarmed by Clinton’s Martha’s Vineyard vacations that he
 forced  the family to go to Wyoming and ride horses. Someone with
an eye on Joe the Plumber told Obama to forgo his trip to the
Vineyard this year.  To comply with the first rule of politics, Romney should be
spending the summer defining himself before Obama finishes the
job for him. Fueled by Obama campaign attack ads, the image of
Romney as a heartless job outsourcer with the ethic of Gordon
Gekko and temperament of Scrooge (he gives a lot to the Mormon
Church but to no one else) is  taking hold . Among swing-state
voters who said the ads changed their minds, 76 percent  now
support  the president, versus 16 percent for Romney.  Yet Romney is nothing if not fearless. He topped off his
vacation by heading to  New York ’s Hamptons for three
fundraisers. Like  Willie Sutton , Romney went there because
that’s where the money is. Where else to soak the rich but where
the rich are soaking? Despite being behind in fundraising (in
June, Obama collected $71 million to Romney’s $106 million), the
president decided the Hamptons were too dangerous a place to be
seen in campaign season.  Envious Elitists  Romney goes all funny when the subject of money comes up,
joking about having once been unemployed and about having
multiple Cadillacs. He  dismisses  concerns about  income
inequality  as the preoccupation of the “envy-oriented” and says
the subject is something to be discussed in “quiet rooms.”  In his defense, Republicans probably are more forgiving of
candidates who flaunt their wealth -- so long as they observe
certain guidelines:  -- As much as possible, refer to each of your multiple
homes as a family compound.  -- Own, don’t rent like the Democrats do. See, for example,
Romney’s lake,  George W. Bush ’s ranch, Dwight Eisenhower’s farm;
also Clinton’s and Obama’s houses on Martha’s Vineyard. ( John Kennedy  and Kerry are exceptions to this rule.)  -- Stay inland (Romney, Bush,  Ronald Reagan ) or, if you
must dunk in an ocean, do so in a swing state ( Richard Nixon  in
Key Biscayne, Florida) or the Pacific (Romney in the La Jolla
enclave of San Diego).  -- Recreate with high-RPM toys: snowmobiles, ATVs,
speedboats, etc. Only wussy liberals waste time cross-country
skiing, sailing and surfing.  Luckily for Romney, there were more pictures of his many
grandchildren than his house. Tanned with good teeth and hair,
they look like the Kennedys, who somehow escaped the effete
label despite such decadent pursuits as tennis and yachting.  Republicans give their leaders more room to relax. Reagan
took  349 days  over eight years at his California ranch, and Bush
topped him with 490 days at his ranch in Texas (make that 977
vacation days if you count time at Camp David). Democrats are
just more anxious. Obama’s time off this year will be as close
to a staycation as his family will allow.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on Washington’s  inability to
move on  and Israel’s debate over  Jewish settlements ;  Mark
Buchanan  on living cells as a model for a  stable financial
system ;  Peter Orszag  explains why states will eventually  expand
Medicaid ;  Alex Marshall  on health care and the  rising bar for
government services .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 