-- WikiLeaks Plot Drives ‘Damages’ to Series Finale: Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-07-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/wikileaks-plot-drives-damages-to-series-finale-review.html
Julian Assange versus Patty Hewes!  Not exactly, but close enough.  A character modeled on the notorious international leaker
sets in motion what could be the downfall of  Glenn Close ’s hell-
on-wheels attorney in the irresistible return of “ Damages .”  With its tricky flash-forwards and dream sequences,
“Damages” never completely tips its hand, but the first
episode of the legal drama’s final season is a series game
changer.  Expect a quick hello and bloody goodbye to a newcomer and,
barring one of those now-you-see-it illusions, a grisly end for
a beloved regular.  This year’s reality-based storyline features Ryan Phillippe
as the Assange character, a baby-faced tech wizard named
Channing McClaren threatening to post documents implicating a
major Wall Street investment bank in an insider trading scandal.  But a whistleblower, played by Jenna Elfman, has second
thoughts (maybe). The violent convolutions propel the series’
long-in-coming showdown between Hewes and her former protege
Ellen Parsons ( Rose Byrne ).  Five seasons in, Close’s brilliance needn’t be rehashed,
and Byrne continues to make a perfect foil. Elfman, playing
against her fluffy sitcom image, is impressive as the guilt-
ridden loose-lips, and Phillippe grows into his creepy role by
the second episode.  More intriguing, though, is Janet McTeer’s Kate Franklin,
Patty’s former colleague who teams with Ellen to slay their
dragon.  Someone’s bound to get scorched.  “Damages” airs Wednesday on Directv’s Audience Network at
9 p.m.  New York  time. Rating: ***  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  James
S. Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Greg Evans  at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 