-- Euro Weakens as Investors Sell to Buy Higher-Yield Assets
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-07-10T21:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-10/yen-gains-on-slowing-china-import-growth-krona-advances.html
The euro fell to a two-year low
versus the dollar and weakened against all of its 16 most-traded
peers as traders used the shared currency to fund purchases of
higher-yielding assets.  The 17-nation currency dropped to the weakest on record
versus  Australia ’s dollar five days after the  European Central
Bank  cut its key  interest rate  to an all-time low. The yen
gained versus most major counterparts as risk appetite eased on
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis remains unresolved. Sterling
climbed to the highest level against the shared currency in more
than three years.  “Ultimately, it’s a market that’s quite comfortable being
short euro,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange
at  National Bank of Canada  in Toronto, said in a telephone
interview. “In the absence of any fresh positive news, it will
likely remain that way.” A short position is a wager a currency
will decline in value.  The euro depreciated as much as 0.6 percent to $1.2235, the
lowest since July 2010, before trading at $1.2250 at 5 p.m. New
York time, down 0.5 percent. The common currency lost 0.7
percent to 97.30 yen and touched 97.23 yen, the weakest since
June 5. The yen gained 0.2 percent to 79.43 per dollar.  Australia’s dollar rose 0.4 percent to A$1.2020 per euro
and touched A$1.1988. The Aussie fell 0.2 percent to $1.0192 and
weakened 0.3 percent to 80.95 yen.  Funding Currency  “The euro is now the main funding currency, and everyone
wants to be short euro,” said Sebastian Galy, a senior foreign-
exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York. “The
dollar is no longer the main funding currency.”  Investors sell currencies of nations with low borrowing
costs to purchase those with higher yields in the carry trade.
 Japan ’s yen and the  U.S. dollar  are traditional funding
currencies because the nation’s central banks are holding
 interest rates  at almost zero. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s
cash rate target is 3.5 percent, while the ECB cut its  rate  on
July 5 to 0.75 percent.  Implied volatility on three-month options for Group-of-
Seven currencies touched 9.37 percent today, approaching a two-
month intraday low, according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility
Index . The average over the past year is 11.5 percent. Lower
volatility makes investments in currencies of nations with
higher benchmark rates more attractive because the risk in such
trades is that market moves will erase profits.  Court Challenge  The yen rose extended its advance versus most major peers
amid concern a court challenge in  Germany  may snarl European
Union efforts to curb their region’s debt turmoil.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said he’s
confident the European Stability Mechanism and Europe’s fiscal
pact are in accord with the nation’s constitution. He spoke
after a hearing at the German Federal Constitutional Court in
Karlsruhe in a challenge that kept the permanent rescue fund
from going into operation today. Opponents said “parliaments
are being disempowered” by German loans to weaker economies. No
date is set for a ruling.  “There is still a good deal of uncertainty about the
ability of policy makers to implement the plans we saw at the
end of the last EU summit,”  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst
in  Washington  at the currency brokerage Commonwealth Foreign
Exchange Inc., said in a telephone interview. “Some of those
fears have increased as a result of this legal hearing in
Germany regarding the expanded roles of the ESM. That highlights
the implementation risk of some of these programs.”  The pound gained as much as 0.5 percent to 78.93 pence per
euro, the strongest level since November 2008. Sterling fell
earlier against most major peers after  Bank of England  Governor
 Mervyn King  said the U.K. economy doesn’t show “great signs”
of recovering from recession.  Spanish Banks  The euro slid even as European officials laid the
groundwork for possible purchases of Italy’s bonds and fast-
tracked aid for  Spain ’s banks. Finance ministers at a meeting in
Brussels worked out a way for the euro bailout funds to
intervene in bond markets and said the first 30 billion euros
($37 billion) of 100 billion euros in rescue loans will start
flowing to Spanish banks this month.  While the loans to Spain will go via the government’s bank-
restructuring agency, the aim is to convert them into direct
injections once the setup of a single European bank supervisor
makes that feasible, Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude
Juncker said. Political hurdles abound to switching to direct
aid, which would give European authorities control over the
banks instead of saddling the Spanish government with the debts.  “The fact that the bank recapitalizations may be delayed
for a couple of months could be a source of weakness in the
euro,” Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview.  Extra Year  The finance ministers gave Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano
Rajoy ’s government an extra year, until 2014, to drive his
nation’s budget deficit below the euro limit of 3 percent of
gross domestic product.  Sweden’s krona reached its strongest level against the euro
since 2000 after industrial production fell less than forecast.
The currency climbed against all of its most-traded counterparts
tracked by Bloomberg. It gained as much as 1.1 percent against
the euro to 8.4348, the strongest level since December 2000,
before trading at 8.5551, up 0.8 percent. It rose 0.3 percent
versus the dollar to 6.9834.  Swedish industrial production fell an annual 2.3 percent in
May, Stockholm-based  Statistics Sweden  said in a statement
today. That compared with a decrease of 6.9 percent estimated in
a Bloomberg survey and a 6.4 percent drop a month earlier.  The euro weakened 2.4 percent over the past month, the
worst performer with the Swiss franc among the 10 developed-
nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The New Zealand and Aussie dollars were the biggest
winners, both rising 3.3 percent. The greenback declined 0.4
percent and the yen slipped 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  