-- T-Mobile USA, MetroPCS Cut Rates on Unlimited Plans in Price War
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-08-22T13:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/t-mobile-usa-metropcs-cut-rates-on-unlimited-plans-in-price-war.html
T-Mobile USA  Inc., the fourth-
largest U.S. wireless carrier, is countering the industry’s
shift to tiered data pricing by rolling out a new unlimited plan
on Sept. 5.  The program provides unrestricted talk, text and data for
$89.99 a month, T-Mobile said today in a statement. The move
comes a day after  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , a pay-as-you-go
carrier, introduced a promotional $55 unlimited plan.  Verizon Wireless and AT&T Inc., the two largest U.S.
carriers, are moving in the opposite direction. The companies,
which have the benefit of speedier, next-generation networks
over larger portions of the U.S., have abandoned unlimited data
plans in favor of variable rates and tiered pricing.  “We believe T-Mobile felt the need to make some change in
order to attract attention,”  Jennifer Fritzsche , an analyst at
Wells Fargo & Co. in Chicago, said today in a note to clients.  Sprint (S)  Nextel Corp., the third-largest carrier, still
offers an unlimited data plan, and T-Mobile’s move may be more
directed at that company’s customers. T-Mobile’s $89.99 price is
about $20 less than the comparable plan offered by Sprint.  The price cut is “a true shot across the bow to Sprint,”
Fritzsche said.  Carriers are taking the different approaches in response to
a saturated U.S. market, where it’s harder to find new
customers. Verizon Wireless and AT&T are promoting shared data
plans, which allow users to include multiple devices under one
monthly payment.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , the owner of Bellevue, Washington-
based T-Mobile USA, has discussed the idea of merging its U.S.
business with MetroPCS, people familiar with those talks said in
May. MetroPCS is based in Richardson, Texas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  