-- A Look Inside ESPN’s Hard-Hitting NFL Coverage
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2012-08-22T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/a-look-inside-espn-s-hard-hitting-nfl-coverage.html
When top ESPN executives gather to
discuss the upcoming season, how do they address what might
delicately be called “The Football Problem”? I have no idea,
of course. But I’m envisioning something like this:  -- OK, everyone. I think you all know why we’re here. Just
want to make sure everyone’s on the same page, and to address
any concerns you might have. Obviously we all love football.
That goes without saying. And we don’t need to waste any time
talking about its importance to our company.  -- Right. Imagine Alcoa without aluminum. Bravo without
“Real Housewives.” You get the idea.  -- But we don’t like head injuries.  -- Thank you for mentioning that. In fact, before we go any
further, can I just say, for the record, let me just state that
this network is against  chronic traumatic encephalopathy .  [CROSSTALK] Of course. Absolutely.  -- Should we issue a statement on that?  -- Sure. But let’s also keep in mind that any link between
football and head injuries is, well, is there any link?
Circumstantial at best, I’d say. I mean what are we talking
about? A  handful of  unstable ex-players who died as a result of
self-harm?  -- What about  the lawsuit ? The one with thousands of ex-
players as plaintiffs?  Good Research  -- The NFL has  assured us  that their primary concern has
always been to [SOUND OF PAPERS BEING SHUFFLED] “better protect
players” and to [PAUSE, MORE SHUFFLING OF PAPERS] “advance the
science and medical understanding of the management and
treatment of concussions.”  -- They’ve done a lot of research. Good organization.  -- Do we need to be worried about Congress weighing in?  -- [LAUGHTER] Good luck with that! Last I checked, Congress
couldn’t even get it together to ban assault weapons in a
country where lunatics shoot congresspeople! Not gonna happen.  -- What about the game’s image?  Even if the lawsuit goes
nowhere …  -- Again, I wouldn’t worry. Last year -- and I don’t need
to remind you fellas that this was after the lockout that was
supposed to be so damaging to fan loyalty -- the NFL had its
 second-highest viewership  average in more than 20 years. What do
you think more Americans are going to be watching on the night
of Sept. 5: a bunch of politicians talking about Obamacare at
the Democratic convention or Eli throwing for 300 against the
Cowboys?  -- [AMBIENT NOISES OF AGREEMENT.]  -- Well, this is all great to hear. I was getting a little
worried, but it seems like football’s going to be OK.  -- Let’s not get carried away! The game is doomed. Haven’t
you seen  our own coverage  of this concussion stuff?  -- He’s right. I mean, do you want your 8-year-old son
being asked to check a box labeled “brain donor” when he signs
up for Pop Warner?  -- Is there any way to get out in front of this thing?  -- We could encourage the NFL to pay for some PSAs against
football. It worked for the tobacco industry. Maybe the guy who
played Tim Riggins telling kids that playing football isn’t
“cool”?  -- What if we show the public how dangerous other sports
are?  -- Not a bad idea. Look at golf. How do you think  Adam
Scott ’s head is doing after blowing that four-stroke lead at the
British Open?  -- I think we also need more goodwill ambassadors, former
players who will defend the game.  New Helmets  -- Yes. Merril Hoge is a perfect example. The guy took his
lumps, spent a couple of days in intensive care, dealt with some
severe  memory loss , had to learn how to read again. But  he
appreciates  everything the game has done for him.  -- Other possibilities: I’m hearing great things about
those helmets with the air bags. A player gets hit and their
whole upper body is surrounded by a huge air pocket before they
hit the ground.  -- Great visuals there. What else?  -- Well, the  Jaguars  are going to start playing some home
games in the U.K. That seems promising. Once those soccer
hooligans get a taste of a real “tackle,” football could
really take off there.  -- Right, and over there this whole head-injury controversy
hasn’t really gotten traction.  -- Weren’t we going to try to avoid that word?  -- Speaking of which, let’s go over some of the other
phrases we’re trying to keep off the air.  -- Sure. Well, “tackle” sounds a little rough. We prefer
“wrap ‘em up.” Also, best to avoid “hit.” And obviously
“crush.” Always good to say “fundamentally sound” whenever
possible. And instead of, “He doesn’t seem to be getting up,”
let’s try: “He’s still catching his breath.”  -- Much better. So much of this is in the words, really.
And wasn’t there one last idea?  -- Well, the alternative programming we were discussing.
Ballroom dancing is something we’re very excited about.  -- Is it full contact?  -- No, but people do fall. Test audiences love it.  [After this column was published, ESPN issued the following
response: “For many years ESPN has been a leader in reporting on
head trauma/concussions in football with thorough and  continuing 
coverage on “Outside the Lines,” ESPN.com and in ESPN The
Magazine. We remain committed to  enterprise journalism  and to
covering this important topic.”]  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
A contributor to the  New York  Times Magazine, he is the author
of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the Bronx Is
Burning,” “The Challenge,” and “Death Comes to Happy
Valley.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why we still need  affirmative
action  and on why the Bundesbank should  put up or shut up ;
 Caroline Baum  on the free market not working for  health care ;
 Susan Crawford  on the consequences of the  Apple-Samsung  patent
case;  Ezra Klein  on  Romney’s vaporous Medicare  promise; William
Silber on how  Paul Volcker  restored the Fed’s  credibility on
inflation ; Will Wilkinson on how  Paul Ryan  can be a  Randist and
a Catholic .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or @jonathanmahler on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 