-- Abu Dhabi Stocks Rise for Ninth Day on Earnings
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-08-22T10:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/abu-dhabi-stocks-rise-for-9th-day-on-earnings-oil-dubai-gains.html
Abu Dhabi  shares rose for a ninth
day, the longest stretch of gains since March, after earnings at
the emirate’s companies beat estimates and oil traded near a
three-month high.  Sorouh Real Estate Co. (SOROUH)  gained 0.9 percent.  Emirates
Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) , the biggest United Arab Emirates phone
company which last month reported a better-than-expected 17
percent profit increase, gained for a fourth day. The  ADX
General Index (ADSMI)  climbed 0.5 percent to 2,589.50, the highest since
March 21 and the longest winning streak since March 4, at the
close in the emirate. The measure has advanced 3.3 percent so
far this month. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  fell 0.3 percent and
Qatar’s QE Index added 0.1 percent.  U.A.E. stock markets reopened today after the Eid holiday,
which marked the end of the Islamic month of fasting.  Saudi
Arabia (SABIC) ’s market will resume trading Aug. 25. About 34 million
shares traded in Abu Dhabi today, compared with a 12-month daily
average of 59 million.  “Investors continue to be bullish on U.A.E. stocks as work
hours returned to normal, buoyed by solid earnings from most
banks and real estate developers and while oil prices are
stabilized at a relatively high level,” said Nabil Farhat, a
partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities.  Economic Growth  Crude for October delivery rose as much as 0.4 percent to
$97.07 a barrel in New York as risks to global supplies
countered concern that an economic slowdown will curtail fuel
consumption. Gulf Arab oil exporters, including Qatar and the
U.A.E., supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  The U.A.E. economy will grow 3.4 percent this year, the
second-fastest pace in four years, according to the median
forecast of 13 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Growth in Dubai,
which was on the brink of a debt default in 2009, will quicken
to as much as 5 percent this year, according to the government.  Sorouh, the Abu Dhabi developer that’s in merger talks with
 Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR) , last month said net income in the second
quarter rose to 148.2 million dirhams ($40 million), beating the
52 million-dirham median estimate of three analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares rose to 1.09 dirhams.  Etisalat, the company with the heaviest weighting on Abu
Dhabi’s index, gained 1.4 percent to 9.46 dirhams, the highest
close since June 27. Second-quarter profit rose to 1.87 billion
dirhams, also topping estimates.  National Bank of Ras Al-Khaimah (RAKBANK)  PSC added 0.3 percent after
the lender’s second-quarter profit climbed 16 percent, helped by
higher interest income and lower impairment charges.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  increased 0.1 percent. Kuwait’s
 SE Price Index (KWSEIDX)  climbed 0.8 percent and  Bahrain’s measure  gained
0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  