-- Accused 9-11 Mastermind’s Lawyer Wins as ‘Velvet Shiv’
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-08-22T18:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/accused-sept-11-mastermind-s-lawyer-prevails-as-velvet-shiv-.html
Attorney  David Nevin  spent 19 1/2
years fighting to save the life of Richard Leavitt, who was
convicted of mutilating and murdering a woman in Blackfoot,
 Idaho . On June 11, the U.S. Supreme Court rejected a final plea
from Nevin and another lawyer, clearing the way for Leavitt’s
execution the next day. Nevin, at last, gave up.  “They did everything they could,” Leavitt’s mother,
Marjorie, said in a phone interview. “They kept fighting.”  Until a tropical storm forced a postponement, Nevin was
scheduled to rise in a military courtroom tomorrow in Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba, to defend a man the U.S. government seeks to execute
for a far more infamous crime. Nevin represents Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, accused mastermind of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, the
deadliest terrorist strike on U.S. soil during which 2,976
people were killed.  Six days of legal arguments were to begin tomorrow in the
case of Mohammed and four other detainees, including discussion
of possible testimony about the defendants’ treatment in
custody. A military judge today canceled the hearings in light
of the storm, a military spokesman said. No new date has been
set.  John Adams  Nevin, 63, has undertaken a task that  Morris Davis , chief
prosecutor for the military commission at Guantanamo Bay from
2005 to 2007, likens to  John Adams ’s defense of British soldiers
after the  Boston  Massacre in 1770 and Army lawyer Kenneth
Royall’s unsuccessful defense of Nazi saboteurs caught on  Long
Island ,  New York , during World War II. Like the Nuremberg cases
beginning in 1945, the eventual trial will be watched worldwide.  “You have people questioning your patriotism or your
commitment to the country because you’re defending the enemies
of your country,” said Davis, who teaches at Howard University
School of Law in  Washington . “But if our system is going to
work, we need people who are going to take on the unpopular
cases and fight them hard. History looks back favorably.”  Prosecutors say Mohammed confessed in 2007 to plotting the
hijackings that slammed jets into the World Trade Center in New
York, the Pentagon in Washington and a field in Shanksville,
 Pennsylvania . Nevin and lawyers for the other detainees have
alleged that their clients were tortured by U.S intelligence
agents after being captured.  After Capture  The goal may be to win rulings excluding from the trial
statements the detainees made after their capture, or at least
to win leniency at a sentencing, said  Denny LeBoeuf , a death-
penalty lawyer with the  American Civil Liberties Union  who has
consulted with the defense attorneys.  Debra Burlingame, whose brother Charles piloted the
hijacked American Airlines flight that crashed into the
Pentagon, said it would be wrong for Nevin to press this
argument too far and shift the focus to whether Mohammed and
other detainees were tortured.  “I would expect the lawyers to make the government prove
their case,” Burlingame said in a phone interview. “But to try
and turn the case into, somehow, about the Constitution of the
U.S. government, foreign policy, national security policy, I
think that’s really unfortunate. It’s not what’s supposed to
happen in court.”  Oregon Trail  For Nevin, the son of a reporter-turned-author whose first
novel chronicled the opening of the Oregon Trail, the Mohammed
case is the biggest challenge in a career spent defending white
separatists, a toxic polluter and other modern-day outlaws of
the American West. His firm,  Nevin, Benjamin, McKay & Bartlett
LLP , is based in Boise, Idaho.  “To be a criminal-defense lawyer, you have to really have
two attributes,” said Klaus Wiebe, the former public defender
in Ada County, Idaho, for whom Nevin once worked. “You really
have to be for the underdog. The power of the government is so
extreme that your client is always the underdog. And you also
have to be willing to get your ass kicked fairly regularly and
not give up.”  Wiebe said Nevin possesses both qualities and one more:
“He thinks the government overreaches and cannot be trusted.”  Nevin, who declined to comment for this story, summed up
his mission at a 2009 talk at  Brigham Young University . After
acknowledging a gracious introduction -- the moderator cited his
past honors, his work as a past president of the Idaho
Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, and his scholarship on
legal issues -- Nevin spelled out his obligation as a lawyer.  ‘Always Defend’  “I always defend,” he said.  Nevin has defended Mohammed since 2008, when he was
recruited by the  John Adams Project , a joint effort of the ACLU
and the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers that
has represented some Guantanamo Bay detainees.  Joshua Dratel , a
New York lawyer who approached Nevin and his partner on behalf
of the group, said Nevin’s brief hesitance concerned the time
commitment and logistical issues of defending a client in Cuba
 -- and not the notoriety of Mohammed.  “That wasn’t a particular concern,” said Dratel, who has
also defended terrorism cases and consulted with Nevin during a
2004 terrorism case that Nevin defended in Idaho.  Gray-haired, bespectacled and lanky, with the physique of
the cyclist and runner he is, Nevin comes to Mohammed’s case
after a series of legal victories.  Ruby Ridge  Nevin’s most acclaimed win came in 1993 when he persuaded a
federal jury to acquit Kevin Harris, one of two men accused of
killing a U.S. marshal during a shootout at Ruby Ridge, Idaho.
In 2004, Nevin urged jurors to resist the impulse “to strike
out at people who are not like us” and to acquit Sami Omar al-
Hussayen, a Saudi student studying in Idaho, of charges that he
recruited terrorists on websites he ran. Jurors did, after Nevin
argued there was no evidence al-Hussayen endorsed terrorism.  “He will come in early, he will stay late,” said Terry
Derden, a former prosecutor who supervised the al-Hussayen case
for the government. “He just never gives up.”  A native of Shreveport,  Louisiana , Nevin was raised an only
child by parents who paid reverence to civil rights and were
distrustful of the established order, wrote Jess Walter, author
of “Every Knee Shall Bow: The Truth and Tragedy of Ruby Ridge
and the Randy Weaver Family” (HarperCollins 1995).  ‘Committed Liberal’  “A committed liberal,” as Walter put it in a later
interview with Bloomberg News, Nevin attended colleges in
Connecticut and  Iowa  before graduating in 1974 with an English
literature degree from  Colorado State University . He spent a
year working  road construction  and teaching English in  Germany ,
briefly considering a career as a heavy-equipment operator.  Instead, Nevin chose the  University of Idaho  law school.
For inspiration, he and classmate Breck Seiniger drove to class
listening to taped summations of civil rights lawyer Tony Serra,
who had defended Black Panther leader Huey Newton.  He stood apart in other ways, too. A class photo of the
lawyers-to-be, most in suits, showed Nevin “with hippie-hair,
sitting Buddha-style on the law school steps,” according to a
2008 profile in the Advocate, an Idaho bar association magazine.  “David was a great law student,” Seiniger said in a phone
interview. “Not a hippie, but someone with a cultural point of
view, a person who questioned everything.”  Cum Laude  Nevin graduated cum laude in 1978. He taught law for a year
in  Ohio  and took a clerkship on the Idaho Supreme Court. As a
public defender, his clients included a so-called naturopathic
physician convicted of involuntary manslaughter when his patient
died after tap water enemas, according to court records. The man
wasn’t a licensed doctor. Nevin lost the appeal.  Nevin also defended Lacey Sivak after he was convicted of
murder during a gas station robbery in the first of at least
eight death-penalty cases he has handled on appeal or at trial,
according to his firm’s website. Sivak, convicted at a trial,
hasn’t been executed. Nevin is no longer involved in the case.  “Ten people may look at evidence and be meticulous,” said
Celeste Miller, a former federal prosecutor. “But Nevin will
likely come up with a theory or argument that others didn’t
think of.”  The Ruby Ridge shootout followed an attempt by federal
marshals to arrest separatist Randy Weaver on weapons charges at
his remote Idaho cabin. In an ensuing gun battle, Weaver’s son
and a U.S. marshal were killed. Weaver’s wife was killed by FBI
sharpshooters in a standoff that lasted 11 days. Harris fired
the shot that killed the marshal.  Gerry Spence  Gerry Spence , a Wyoming lawyer who wore his 10-gallon hat
to court each day, defended Weaver, while Nevin agreed to a
judge’s request that he represent Harris.  The two complemented each other, with Spence framing the
case as a government cover-up of a botched raid and Nevin boring
in on inconsistencies in the government’s evidence. The central
issue was who fired first. Jurors acquitted Harris entirely and
Weaver of all but one count; both won payouts later with civil
claims against the government.  “He sees the pieces of the puzzle that I overlook. I see
the big picture,” Spence said in a phone interview. “He is
extraordinarily intelligent.”  The same year, Nevin and another Idaho lawyer, Andrew
Parnes, took on the appeal of Leavitt, who had been convicted at
a 1985 state trial of murdering the Blackfoot, Idaho, woman and
cutting out her genitals. The lawyers attacked the trial judge’s
handling of the case and argued in court filings that Leavitt
was denied a fair trial in a small town where there was
“incredible pressure” to convict, Parnes said. Their efforts
lasted until Leavitt was executed.  Professorial Manner  Inside the courtroom, Nevin is almost professorial in
manner, said Detroit lawyer Geoffrey Fieger, whom Nevin
successfully defended at a 2008 trial on federal charges of
making illegal campaign contributions. Recruited to the case by
Spence, Nevin showed a mastery of facts and exacting cross-
examinations of government witnesses that served as the
counterweight to Spence’s theatrics, Fieger said.  “Gerry is a more all-consuming, larger-than-life trial
attorney,” Fieger said. Nevin “dissects people without them
realizing they’ve been dissected. He’s a velvet shiv.”  Yet Nevin also has sharp elbows. Miller, the ex-prosecutor,
did battle with him at the 1999 trial of Allan Elias, who was
convicted of illegally disposing hazardous waste in one of the
largest federal environmental crimes prosecutions. Elias was
 sentenced  to prison for 17 years.  Choosing Tables  Nevin would arrive early and seek to assert control over
the courtroom by claiming the table closest to the jury, which
is traditionally reserved for the prosecutors. “That is unique
to David in my years of prosecuting,” said Miller, now a
partner at Boise’s McDevitt & Miller LLP.  Still, his zeal may sometimes get the best of him, as when
he misreads a prosecutor’s motivation for some action, she said.
“I don’t think the fact finders, whether the judge or jury, are
interested in the innuendo or righteous indignation,” Miller
said.  Nevin shows more humility outside court. In Boise, he has
participated in public readings of “A Christmas Carol,” owned
a stake in a popular downtown bar, and joined friends for a 300-
mile bicycle trip. He is married and has two grown children.  Restraint will not be part of Mohammed’s defense. At a May
6 press conference at Guantanamo Bay after his client and the
other defendants were arraigned before the judge, Nevin at first
stood near the back of the room as other lawyers took the podium
to answer reporters’ questions.  Voicing Alarm  Only as the questioning intensified did Nevin come forward
to voice his alarm over military rules that bar the lawyers from
discussing with their clients whether they were tortured after
capture.  “We are forbidden from talking to our clients about very
important matters,” Nevin said. “Now the government wants to
kill Mr. Mohammed. They want to extinguish the last eyewitness
so he can never talk about his torture. They want the political
cover so he’ll be convicted and executed.”  Nevin also assails the military tribunal where Mohammed
will face trial, saying in his 2009 Brigham Young speech that
participating in a process with murky rules is like going “down
the rabbit hole.”  For instance, while the law bars prosecutors from using
statements made under harsh interrogation, it’s unclear if other
information gathered that way -- like leads to witnesses -- will
be allowed, said  Victor Hansen , a retired Army lawyer now a New
England School of Law professor in Boston.  Legal Protections  Even with enhanced legal protections established in a 2009
overhaul of the military commission law, defense lawyers said at
the May arraignment that the terror cases belong in civilian
courts where, they say, defendants’ rights will be better
protected.  The trial of Mohammed and the four other detainees won’t
start before next year. James Connell, a defense lawyer, said at
a press conference today that the trial may be as long as four
years away because of the hundreds of motions that will need to
be resolved.  Connell, a lawyer for Ali Abd al-Aziz Ali, a Pakistani
accused of helping finance the attacks, said at a press
conference yesterday that the trial itself may have “very
little meaning” because the defendants are unlikely to be ever
freed even if acquitted. Still, evidence at a trial that they
were tortured while in custody might help save the defendants’
lives in the event of a conviction.  Nevin hasn’t elaborated further on defense strategy
because, he told reporters in May, government rules forbid him
from disclosing information the military deems classified.
Davis, the ex-military prosecutor, said the defense may have no
choice but to focus on such issues after Mohammed allegedly
confessed to planning the attacks “from A to Z,” as he put it
in a statement read to a Guantanamo Bay tribunal by a military
official on March 10, 2007.  ‘Earnest Desire’  At a 2008 court appearance, Mohammed said he wanted to
plead guilty and be martyred, saying, “I do not trust the
Americans.” Other defendants joined in the request, which
Mohammed called his “earnest desire.” While Mohammed made no
such comments in May, Mohammed may be the “attorney’s nightmare
as far as being a difficult client to manage,” Davis said.  “Defending on the facts is going to be impossible,” Davis
said. “So you have to attack the process.”  The lawyers’ strategy will be on display as legal arguments
get under way. Among the issues before a military judge will be
whether the defense may summon Jose Rodriguez, an ex-Central
Intelligence Agency official, to testify about detainee
interrogations while in CIA custody. The detainees say
Rodriguez’s testimony will establish torture. The military
denies the relevance of Rodriguez’s potential testimony.  Detainee Accounts  The judge will also hear a challenge by the ACLU and 14
media organizations including  Bloomberg News  to a military rule
that they say bars trial observers from hearing detainee
accounts of their treatment in custody.  U.S. officials do so with a 40-second delay of statements
broadcast from the courtroom, enabling them to hit a white-noise
button.  Military lawyers say in court papers that the U.S. seeks to
withhold classified secrets about its “sources, methods and
activities.” The ACLU says the military is seeking to suppress
details of torture through a categorical and illegal gag order.  One challenge for Nevin is conferring with a client jailed
thousands of miles away. According to a May 31 legal filing, he
and his colleagues can’t phone or write Mohammed and may speak
to him only at the naval base. Another may be winning Mohammed’s
confidence. In a July 19 filing, Nevin said he’d been unable to
tell Mohammed that hearings scheduled for Ramadan were
postponed.  “Timely communication with Mr. Mohammed on this issue is
particularly important for the relationship of trust,” he
wrote.  Ramadan Delay  Prosecutors had opposed a defense request to delay the case
until after Ramadan. That drew a heated response from Nevin and
colleagues, who said in a July filing that the “accused, whose
lives are very literally on the line,” shouldn’t have to choose
“between participation in their defense and fulfillment of
their religious obligations.”  On this issue, the defense won.  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial
Judiciary (Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 