-- Accused Terrorists’ Hearing Canceled as Storm Nears
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-08-22T22:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/accused-terrorists-hearing-canceled-as-storm-nears.html
 A U.S. military judge canceled six
days of hearings scheduled to begin tomorrow in a case against
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four other accused terrorists as a
tropical storm approached Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where the legal
arguments were to be heard.  Citing “a concern for the safety and welfare of all
personnel,” Army Colonel James Pohl canceled the hearing for
Mohammed, the accused mastermind of the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks, and four others. The hearing was scheduled
for this week and early next week.  The U.S. National Hurricane Center’s tracking map shows
Tropical Storm Isaac crossing  Haiti  as a hurricane on Aug. 24
and striking Cuba before arriving at the Florida coast below
Cape Coral on Aug. 27.  The hearing was to focus on 25 legal motions by the defense
and the prosecution. Among the issues was whether the defense
may summon Jose Rodriguez, an ex-Central Intelligence Agency
official, to testify about the interrogation of detainees in CIA
custody. The detainees say Rodriguez’s testimony will establish
that torture took place. The military denies the relevance of
Rodriguez’s potential testimony.  The judge was also to hear a challenge by the  American
Civil Liberties Union  and 14 media organizations, including
 Bloomberg News , to a military rule that they say bars trial
observers from hearing detainee accounts of their treatment in
custody or other comments they’ve made.  Train Derailment  The U.S. seeks to withhold classified secrets about its
“sources, methods and activities,” military lawyers said in
court papers.  Defense lawyers, journalists and representatives of non-
governmental organizations including  Human Rights Watch  were on
hand to observe the proceedings. They will be evacuated from the
island. The five detainees, who were last in court on May 5 for
their arraignment, will remain in secure facilities in
Guantanamo Bay.  Relatives of victims were also present. Al Acquaviva, whose
son Paul was a vice president at eSpeed, then a unit of Cantor
Fitzgerald LP, and died in the attack on the World Trade Center
in  Manhattan , said he was “very disappointed” by the
postponement.  “We’re coming back,” he said. The military brings a few
victims’ relatives to each hearing.  New Jersey  Acquaviva, who lives in Wayne,  New Jersey , said the
relatives have met with three prosecutors and seen the courtroom
while in Guantanamo Bay.  “We’ve seen everything but the guys who did it,” he said.
“I wanted to see them, get a look at them.”
The court session was scheduled to begin today. It was initially
postponed for a day because a train derailment in  Maryland 
affected fiber-optic lines and Internet connectivity,
interfering with defense lawyers’ preparations for the hearing.  The trial of Mohammed and the four other detainees won’t
start before next year. James Connell, a defense lawyer, said at
a press conference today that the trial may be as long as four
years away because of the hundreds of motions that will need to
be resolved.  Mohammed and the four others face trial on charges that
they helped to organize the attacks that used hijacked passenger
planes to destroy the World Trade Center and damage the
Pentagon, killing almost 3,000 people. Military prosecutors say
Mohammed has confessed to organizing the attacks.  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial
Judiciary (Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  