-- Madoff Trustee’s Customer Payment May Reach $2.4 Billion
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-08-22T16:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/madoff-trustee-s-customer-payment-may-reach-2-4-billion.html
The trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s bankrupt brokerage won court approval to make a second
customer payment that may reach $2.4 billion, or seven times as
much as the con man’s investors have received so far.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  in  New York  today
granted Irving Picard’s request to hold back less money from a
fund created to compensate investors for Ponzi scheme losses.
Some customers have demanded 9 percent interest on their money.
Lifland’s ruling that Picard can reserve just 3 percent for
interest means the payment to customers may be $1 billion larger
than if he had to hold back the bigger amount, Picard has
calculated.  “This is a real victory for the trustee and investors, and
should accelerate claims trading,” said  Joseph Sarachek ,
managing director of claims trading at CRT Capital Group LLC,
which buys and sells distressed debt.  Claims on Madoff’s estate have been trading at about
65 cents on the dollar after rising from the low 60s as the
customer fund swelled, according to Sarachek.  Court challenges have tied up most of the $9.1 billion that
Picard has raised since Madoff’s 2008 arrest, mostly through
settlements. Picard has paid customers $336 million from the
compensation fund, according to his website. His  law firm ,
meanwhile, has charged more than $300 million for liquidating
Madoff’s brokerage.  Challenge Dropped  Money was freed up in June when a former Madoff customer,
Adele Fox, dropped her challenge to the Jeffry Picower estate’s
forfeiture of $5 billion to Madoff’s estate and more than
$2 billion to the U.S., and the U.S. Supreme Court refused to
hear a challenge to Picard’s payment formula.  Picard now has $7.3 billion available to put into the fund
for Madoff customer payments and has approved $7.5 billion of
claims meriting payment, according to his website. In all,
customers who filed claims lost about $17.3 billion of
principal, Picard has said.  Picard says the law governing brokerage liquidations
doesn’t support interest payments on money lost in the  Ponzi
scheme . He is engaged in court fights with customers who want
9 percent interest as well as the return of lost principal, with
the interest representing so-called time-based damages for the
December 2008 loss of their money when the Ponzi scheme
collapsed. He will hold the 3 percent reserves until a court
decides the interest issue.  Picower Money  Part of the $5 billion received from Picower’s estate would
be used for the second payment, Picard has said. In a lawsuit,
Picard accused the deceased Picower, among Madoff’s largest
investors, of knowing of the fraud.  Madoff is serving a 150-year prison sentence after
confessing to running a Ponzi scheme that once reported customer
assets of $65 billion, including fake profit.  The Madoff brokerage liquidation case is Securities
Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, 08-01789,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  