-- Aemetis Licenses Biofuel Process From Chevron Venture With CB&I
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-08-22T20:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/aemetis-licenses-biofuel-process-from-chevron-venture-with-cb-i.html
Aemetis Inc. (AMTX) , a U.S. producer of
biofuels and renewable chemicals, plans to make  jet fuel  and
diesel using technology developed by a joint venture of  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  and Chicago Bridge & Iron Co.  The technology from  Chevron Lummus Global LLC  uses water to
convert plant oils into products that are similar to petroleum
crude and are refined into fuel, Cupertino, California-based
Aemetis said today in a statement.  Licensing the technology will accelerate Aemetis’s efforts
to commercialize “drop-in” renewable jet fuel and diesel.
These differ from competing biofuels because they may be used
without blending standard, petroleum-based products, said Leon
de Bruyn, managing director of Chevron Lummus.  “The biodiesel and biojet produced from the unit are truly
fungible” products that replace petroleum-derived fuels, he
said in the statement. Chevron Lummus is equally owned by
Chevron and CB&I.  Aemetis plans to use the technology at its North American
facilities. Under the non-exclusive license, the company will
pay a 10-cent-a-gallon royalty fee, “with certain decreases”
based on the volume of fuel produced, according to a filing
today.  Aemetis owns a corn-ethanol plant in Keyes,  California ,
that can produce 55 million gallons (208 million liters) of fuel
annually, and a plant in  India  with annual capacity of 50
million gallons of biodiesel, edible oil and glycerin, according
to its website. The company has been  developing  its own process
to make fuel from plant-based sugars.  “This technology is ideally suited for the conversion of
existing biofuels production facilities,” Aemetis Chief
Executive Officer and Chairman Eric McAfee said in the
statement.  U.S. oil refiners must blend with their products 36 billion
gallons of biofuels a year by 2022, according to Environmental
Protection Agency regulations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  