-- Aetna Puts Debt Leverage Above Rivals in Deal: Corporate Finance
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-08-22T15:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/aetna-puts-debt-leverage-above-rivals-in-deal-corporate-finance.html
Aetna Inc. (AET) ’s $5.7 billion purchase
of  Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH)  will take the insurer from about
the bottom to the top of leverage among its peers as it seeks to
cut $400 million of costs.  Aetna’s push to compete with WellPoint Inc. and Cigna Corp.
as the U.S. government increases medical coverage will bring its
debt to about 40 percent of capital from about 31 percent,
according to  Fitch Ratings . That would be the highest among the
six firms in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Managed Health Care Sub
Industry index.  While Chief Executive Officer Mark Bertolini has pledged to
trim leverage, the purchase’s profitability depends on cuts to
management and technology spending that may be difficult to
achieve, according to CreditSights Inc. The three major credit-
ratings firms lowered their outlooks for the Hartford,
Connecticut-based insurer after it announced the deal Aug. 20
and said it would take on $2.5 billion of debt to finance it.  “There’s always integration risk,” Mark Rouck, a senior
director at Fitch in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.
“Aetna, in our minds, still has to show us that it will reduce
the financial leverage ratios.”  Fitch said in an Aug. 20 report that it would likely put
its A- rating for Aetna’s unsecured debt on “negative outlook”
when the deal closes next year. Moody’s Investors Service said
it may downgrade Aetna from Baa1, while S&P lowered the outlook
for its A- grade to “stable” from “positive.”  ‘Lever Up’  Cigna has a 37 percent debt-to-capital ratio as of June 30
after its January purchase of Healthspring Inc., compared with
30 percent for UnitedHealth Group Inc. and 18 percent for Humana
Inc., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. WellPoint’s $4.9
billion acquisition of Amerigroup Corp., announced last month,
will increase its leverage to 39 percent, Fitch said in a
statement at the time.  “We’re certainly seeing companies lever up to do these
acquisitions,” Neal Freedman, an analyst for S&P, said in a
telephone interview. “We are going to give them time to work
down.”  Joseph Zubretsky, Aetna’s chief financial officer, said
Aug. 20 on a conference call to discuss the deal that the
company would lower the ratio to 35 percent over the next two
years, while still paying  dividends  and repurchasing stock.  Coventry Cash  Coventry has about $850 million in cash, according to
Citigroup Inc. The combined company may have earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $3.3 billion
in 2014, compared with $2.1 billion for Aetna on its own,
according to Citigroup.  Aetna’s $500 million of 4.5 percent notes due May 2042
dropped 3.1 cents on the dollar to 98.4 cents to yield 4.6
percent the day the deal was announced, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The securities gained back 2.1 cents to 100.5 cents
at 10:29 a.m. today, Trace data show.  Aetna will pay $42.08 a share for Bethesda, Maryland-based
Coventry, a 20 percent premium over the closing price of $34.94
on Aug. 17. The purchase, expected to close in the middle of
next year, will be financed with a combination of cash on hand
and about $2.5 billion in new debt and commercial paper. Aetna
said in a regulatory filing today that it obtained a $2 billion
bridge loan arranged by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG.  ‘Needs Scale’  The acquisition extends Aetna’s reach in selling insurance
for people on Medicaid, the government-funded program for the
poor, as well as private plans sold to individuals and small
businesses. Both markets are expected to grow as President
 Barack Obama ’s health-care law expands coverage. The company
would also gain more customers on Medicare, the U.S.-backed
program for the elderly and disabled.  In all, Coventry will add more than  5 million customers  to
the 26.7 million already on medical and prescription drug plans
with Aetna, according to the companies’ quarterly reports.  “Many investors have been concerned that Aetna needs
scale,” Joshua Raskin, an insurance analyst at Barclays Plc in
New York, wrote in a note to clients. With the deal, “Aetna
shareholders get a valuable set of assets that help augment the
company’s operations in almost every segment.”  Expense Reductions  Zubretsky said on the conference call that Aetna would be
able to cut costs by $400 million a year, or 15 percent, by
eliminating overlapping layers of management and information
technology. The savings “could be difficult to obtain due to
the size of the deal,” CreditSights analysts  Rob Haines  and
Eric Axon wrote in a report. The credit-research company, which
said Aetna’s debt-to-capital ratio has been stable at about 30
percent since 2009, is maintaining a “market perform”
recommendation on the insurer’s bonds.  The cost of the debt to finance the purchase will be about
3 percent a year, Zubretsky said.  Interest rates  are so low that
“virtually every combination that relies mostly on borrowed
money adds to earnings,” Carl McDonald, an analyst at
Citigroup, wrote in an Aug. 20 report.  Average yields on investment-grade bonds reached 3.15
percent on Aug. 20, close to the record-low 3.03 percent on Aug.
2, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  “They’re expecting positive cash flows from this,” Jody Lurie, a corporate credit analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
in Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview. “It’s just a
question of can the company return its credit metrics back to
where they were pre-acquisition.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  