-- Affirmative Action Is Still Necessary
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-22T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/affirmative-action-is-still-necessary.html
With an African-American president
and an African-American attorney general, does America still
need affirmative action? Can it honestly be said that blacks
require a finger on the scale of the meritocracy?  Last week the U.S. filed a  brief in support  of the
 University of Texas  in  Fisher v. Texas , which will probably be
the Supreme Court’s most important case next year. Abigail
Fisher, white, wanted to go to college at the University of
Texas at Austin, but didn’t get in. So she sued, charging the
university with violating the various legislative and judicially
imposed rules about minority admissions.  It is clear from  the briefs in this case  that the Supreme
Court’s attempt nine years ago, in  Grutter v. Bollinger , to
clarify this muddy situation has not worked. It remains unclear
what is and is not permissible when it comes to how much weight
colleges and universities can give an applicant’s ethnicity.
Admissions officers and applicants alike are as confused and
uncertain as ever.  The Grutter case contrasted undergraduate and law school
admissions at the  University of Michigan . It held that a rigid
mathematical formula (like  Michigan ’s undergraduate policy), in
which extra points were given to minorities, was
unconstitutional at a state institution, but a more flexible
policy (like one used at the law school) could use race as one
of many factors without violating the Constitution. “Holistic”
is the word the court used, and it has become a standard one-
word description of the approach the court wants.  The trouble is, there is really no difference in outcome
between these two approaches. In both, a white person is denied
a slot and a minority gets a slot, when if there were no
favoritism, it would be the other way around.  Under the numeric system the court rejects, it might be
possible to know whether Fisher would have been admitted to the
University of  Texas  if not for racial preference. Under the
holistic method the court prefers, there is no way of knowing.  One of the problems with affirmative action is that the
number of people who suspect they have been victims of reverse
discrimination far exceeds the number of actual victims. This is
especially true at top schools such as Texas and Michigan, where
most applicants of all races are turned down -- for reasons
having nothing to do with race.  The University of Texas’s undergraduate admissions system
uses a combination of numeric and holistic considerations. The
university’s main Austin campus is  required by law  to admit the
top 8 percent of each high school graduating class in the state.
(All other campuses must offer acceptance to the top 10
percent.) That uses up most of the slots. The rest are awarded
on the basis of two indexes. An explicit favoritism for blacks
and Hispanics was dropped in 1996, after a lower court ruled
that race was an illegitimate consideration. Then it was added
back into the mix -- holistically, of course, only as one of
many factors -- in 2004, in response to Grutter.  The short answer to the question, Do we still need
affirmative action, is yes. But the reasoning matters. The
purpose of affirmative action is not, if it ever was,
reparations for wrongs done to a student’s ancestors. Nor is it
intended primarily for the benefit of the minority students who
do, in fact, benefit.  The purpose of affirmative action programs is to provide
and promote diversity. This much-abused notion has a legitimate
core: In a multicultural society, a state university (or any
university) ought to reflect as many of the strands of society
as possible. This is part of the education it offers its
students and part of the service it performs for the state. And
-- here is the part many people find hard to swallow -- no one
has the right to attend a state university, based on
intelligence or merit or whatever point system the admissions
office develops. Being Hispanic is itself merit if Hispanics are
needed to serve diversity.  The question is whether the University of Texas’s
particular stew recipe meets the Grutter standard. Is it
“holistic” enough? One of the university’s arguments is that,
although there may be plenty of blacks and Hispanics among its
50,000 students, many individual classes have few or none.  This argument seems like a stretch. Affirmative action can
be toxic. We agree with the  Supreme Court  that it ought to be
reserved for vital state interests and applied as sparingly as
possible. And we agree that it should be temporary, not a
permanent part of the American landscape.  This particular application of affirmative action policy
may not be constitutional. But in general, affirmative action is
still necessary.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why the Bundesbank should  put
up or shut up ;  Caroline Baum  on the free market not working for
 health care ;  Susan Crawford  on the consequences of the  Apple-
Samsung  patent case;  Ezra Klein  on  Romney’s vaporous Medicare 
promise; Jonathan Mahler on  football, concussions and ESPN ;
William Silber on how  Paul Volcker  restored the Fed’s
 credibility on inflation ; Will Wilkinson on how  Paul Ryan  can be
a  Randist and a Catholic .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 