-- Thai Rice Haul Seen Winning Votes as Sales Drop: Southeast Asia
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-08-23T03:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/thai-rice-haul-seen-winning-votes-as-sales-drop-southeast-asia.html
For Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s ruling party, keeping the farmers that form its
political base happy is more important than retaining the
country’s 30-year position as the world’s top rice exporter.  Shippers including the 100-year-old Kamolkij Group and
opposition politicians have vilified the government’s policy to
buy rice at above-market rates, saying the measure is putting
exporters out of business and encouraging corruption. Officials
say the price-support stance  declared  in parliament a year ago
today is boosting the economy and helping the third of the
population that depends on rice farming.  “Ninety-nine out of 100 want the government to continue
this rice program,” Commerce Minister Boonsong Teriyapirom said
in an interview last week. “The more success we receive from
this policy means a worse scenario for the opposition.”  Parties linked to Yingluck’s brother, former Prime Minister
 Thaksin Shinawatra , have won the past five elections on support
from rice-growing areas that are poorer and more populous than
the rest of Thailand. While the rice policy helped the country’s
gross domestic product expand more than expected in the second
quarter, its ability to sustain that growth remains in doubt.  “In the long run, if the program is kept as is, it will
impact the fiscal policy space and therefore pose a risk to the
ability to spend on infrastructure,” said Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse Group
AG. “The key question is whether there are better ways to spend
1 percent of GDP worth of money on more growth enhancing and
equality-improving activities.”  Program Cost  Under the program, the government guarantees it will pay as
much as 15,000 baht ($477) a ton for unmilled white rice, which
accounts for more than 70 percent of all exports, and 20,000
baht a ton for a higher-quality variety. Yingluck’s
administration plans to spend 260 billion baht in the next
fiscal year to purchase the grain, Boonsong said, an amount
equal to 11 percent of total expenditure.  The program will cost “roughly” 100 billion baht because
of the cost of exporting the rice at a loss, Boonsong said. The
government spent about 260 billion baht to purchase 16 million
tons of unmilled grain from about 2 million farmers since the
program began in October, he said.  An income-support program implemented by the previous
government, headed by now-opposition leader  Abhisit Vejjajiva ,
provided about 67 billion baht in direct payments to 4 million
rice farmers in the 2010-2011 production year, according to the
state-run  Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives .  Farmer Complaints  The current program’s cost could rise to 200 billion baht
after accounting for losses and storage fees for the grain,
according to Kiat Sittheeamorn, an opposition parliamentarian.  Abhisit’s Democrat party has received complaints from
farmers who say some millers refuse to pay the guaranteed price
because of high moisture content or other impurities, he said.
Farmers are forced to accept lower rates because they can’t
afford to pay additional transport costs to take the grain to a
competing miller, he said.  “If they spend the money and it reaches the poor people, I
don’t mind,” Kiat said of the government’s rice policy. “But
that’s not what’s happening here. All the budget spent is not
reaching the farmers.”  Prices of unmilled white rice obtained by farmers averaged
10,035 baht a ton this year through July, compared with 8,400 in
2010, the last full year Abhisit was in power, according to the
 Office of Agricultural Economics.   Higher Prices  Groon Tohchai, a 66-year-old farmer from Nakhon Sawan,
 Thailand ’s largest rice-producing province, received 12,800 baht
per ton for his paddy, up from about 10,000 baht per ton last
year. He used the extra cash to renovate his house and buy gold.  “Although I didn’t get the maximum guaranteed rate of
15,000 baht, rice prices are higher than before,” Groon said by
phone. “I’ll definitely join the program again in the coming
year as it helped boost rice prices, increased family income and
lowered debts.”  Thai policy makers this week called for accelerated
 government spending  in the second half of 2012 as economic
growth may be weaker than previously forecast due to a global
slowdown that is hurting exports.  Southeast Asia ’s second-
biggest economy expanded 4.2 percent in the three months through
June from a year earlier, exceeding all 16 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey that had a median prediction of a 3.1
percent rise.  Economic Boost  The rice policy “helped boost the economy in the first and
second quarter,” Arkhom Termpittayapaisith, secretary-general
of the National Economic and Social Development Board, said on
Aug. 20. “The policy is right because it is designed to help
farmers. We have bought at a high price, so we need to find the
right timing to sell it.”  Guaranteed profits for rice farmers was among policies
directed at lower-income voters that helped Yingluck’s Pheu Thai
party win a majority in elections last year to fill Thailand’s
500-member parliament. The party took 149 of 189 constituency
seats in the north and northeast, while the Democrat party won
16 seats in those regions, where incomes  average  about a third
of those in Bangkok.  The north and northeast accounted for about 70 percent of
rice production last year, according to the  Office of
Agricultural Economics . The south, an opposition stronghold,
produced about 1.6 percent of the country’s rice.  Thaksin Role  In 1981, Thailand introduced a policy to allow rice farmers
to pledge paddy as collateral for loans if they wanted to delay
selling their crops to get better prices. After taking power in
2001, Thaksin started raising the pledging price above market
rates to boost farmer incomes,  according to  the UN’s  Food and
Agriculture Organization . He was ousted in a 2006 coup and has
lived overseas since 2008 after fleeing a jail sentence stemming
from charges brought by a military-appointed panel.  Record Thai stockpiles are now pressuring global prices as
traders bet the Southeast Asian nation will soon sell off
supplies. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  expects Thailand’s
stockpile of milled grain will climb to 12.1 million tons in
2012-2013, exceeding the amount Thailand exported last year.  That will prevent prices from rising even as droughts push
corn and soybeans to record highs, according to the Thai Rice
Exporters Association, which has seen its membership fall to 192
companies after 15 stopped trading rice this year. Rice
shipments by Thailand are estimated to tumble 35 percent to 7
million metric tons this year, the lowest since 2000, the FAO
 said  Aug. 6. That compares with  Vietnam ’s 6.8 million tons and
 India ’s 6.5 million tons, it said.  Export Pressure  “Now we have stockpiles that are big enough for exports
the whole year without having to grow rice,” Charoen
Laothamatas, the association’s vice president, said by phone.
“How can the price go up?”  Thai 5-percent white rice will drop 15 percent to $480 a
ton by Dec. 31, according to the median of 10 estimates from
traders and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg earlier this month.
While Yingluck’s administration doesn’t disclose prices in sales
to other governments, Boonsong said the average price of all
rice sold overseas this year has topped $600 per ton -- below
the break-even price of about $750 per ton for white rice and up
as much as 20 percent from last year.  “We have to concentrate on our  animal feed  and warehousing
businesses to offset a decline in exports of parboiled rice,”
said Korbsook Iamsuri, chief executive officer at Kamolkij Group
and president of the Thai Rice Exporters Association. “We’re
worried that government intervention will drive exporters out of
business and jeopardize the rice sector.”  Education, Infrastructure  As exporters see profits drop, farmers welcome the policy.
A survey of 1,200 rice farmers conducted last month by the
University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce found that 80 percent
plan to join the program again in the crop year starting October
because they will get higher prices.  While the policy is popular, the government should soon
invest money in improving education and building roads and
railways to help the country benefit from a regional agreement
that will lower trade and investment barriers in 2015, according
to Thanavath Phonvichai, an economist at the university.  “The rice policy is OK in the short term, one or two
years,” he said. “In the future the government is supposed to
put the money into programs that will make Thailand more
competitive. We need to prepare ourselves.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  