-- Ainslie Up 20% as Stock Hedge Funds Defy Four-Year Slump
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-08-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/ainslie-up-20-as-stock-hedge-funds-defy-four-year-slump.html
Lee Ainslie ’s Maverick Capital
Management LP, Steve Mandel’s Lone Pine Capital LLC and Ricky
Sandler’s Eminence Capital LLC are beating global markets in
2012 as most stock hedge funds underperform for a fourth
straight year.  The biggest fund at Ainslie’s $10 billion firm surged 20
percent through July, according to clients, who said the New
York-based fund was helped by profitable bets on stocks it
expected to fall as well as those it bet would rise, and by
wagers outside the U.S. Mandel’s Lone Cypress hedge fund in
Greenwich,  Connecticut , returned 20 percent through Aug. 10,
according to investors. Eminence Capital gained 16 percent
through Aug. 3, according to clients of the New York-based firm.  The managers are leading a small group of stock pickers
showing they can outperform market benchmarks after three years
in which  hedge funds  were stymied as an increasing number of
stocks reacted in the same way to macroeconomic events such as
the European sovereign debt crisis. While  equity hedge funds 
lost less than the U.S. market in 2008, they’ve lagged behind
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index by an annualized 12 percentage
points since. The lackluster returns caused pensions, endowments
and foundations to pull money just as some funds rebound.  “We had to work hard last year to get our clients to stay
the course, but I think they are really glad they did,” said
 Stewart Massey , chief investment officer of Massey Quick & Co.,
a Morristown, New Jersey-based firm that invests in hedge funds.
He said he has a “healthy” allocation to stock hedge funds.  Slump Continues  Stock funds lost 3.1 percent this year through July,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, while the S&P returned
11 percent and the MSCI World Index gained 7.7 percent. Hedge
funds of all strategies returned 1.9 percent, on average, in the
first seven months of the year.  Among the outperformers this year is  John Burbank ’s San
Francisco-based Passport Fund, which gained 13 percent through
July. Burbank, who told Bloomberg TV on June 29 that U.S.
second-quarter earnings shortfalls would be “habitual,” was 40
percent net short as of early that month. Most stock funds were
46 percent net long at that time, according to Morgan Stanley’s
prime brokerage unit.  Net exposure is calculated by subtracting the percentage of
a hedge fund’s short positions, or bets on falling prices, from
its long holdings, or wagers on rising stocks.  Executives at the hedge funds declined to comment on
performance.  Declining Popularity  The popularity of equity hedge funds has been waning since
2000, when they accounted for 56 percent of total assets. The
funds now represent 27 percent of the $2.1 trillion industry,
according to Hedge Fund Research Inc. in  Chicago , in part
reflecting declining performance since the global financial
crisis.  Last year stock hedge funds lost 7.5 percent on average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, while the S&P 500 Index
climbed 2.1 percent with dividends reinvested. Managers
struggled to profit amid an increase in  correlation (SPX) , or stocks
falling and rising in lockstep with little regard to
fundamentals such as earnings or sales growth.  The hedge funds have suffered from the same market
anomalies that have undermined stock mutual funds over the past
years. Correlation between the members of the S&P 500 Index and
the U.S. benchmark peaked in October and remains at above-
average levels, according to Westport, Connecticut-based Birinyi
Associates Inc., which used data going back to 1980.  ‘Been Tough’  “It’s been a tough area with the macro environment of risk
on/risk off because that leads to high correlations,” said
Craig Thomas, director of investments for the $1.2 billion
endowment of Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based Wake Forest
University.  The school is holding onto its equity hedge funds, and
focusing on managers who have shown they can make money shorting
stocks as well betting on rising prices, rather than those who
charge the industry’s standard 2 percent of assets and 20
percent of gains for returns in line with the market, he said.  Industrywide, stock hedge funds saw $4.3 billion in
redemptions in the first half of the year, the most of any
strategy, even as hedge funds reaped $20 billion in deposits,
according to HFR. Redemptions will probably continue as a Credit
Suisse AG survey of 157 investors from the Americas, Europe and
 Asia , showed 26 percent plan to cut their allocation to long-
short equity funds in the third quarter.  Cohen Trails  Not all the biggest managers are outperforming.  Steve Cohen , who runs the $14 billion SAC Capital Advisors LP in
 Stamford , Connecticut, gained 6 percent through July, according
to investors asking for anonymity because the information is
private. Stuart Roden and Peter Davies’ London-based Lansdowne
Developed Markets Strategy Fund, with $7 billion in assets, rose
6.3 percent through Aug. 10, after tumbling 20 percent last
year.  Andreas Halvorsen’s Greenwich-based Viking Global Equities
LP climbed about 9 percent in the first seven months, according
to investors, a percentage point more than the MSCI World Index,
though less than the S&P. Halvorsen, like Ainslie and Mandel,
worked at  Julian Robertson ’s Tiger Management LLC, the
pioneering firm that has spawned several top performers.  The stock funds that have attracted money this year tend to
be niche or specialty managers.  Niche Managers  Cevian Capital AB, a Stockholm-based activist fund run by
Christer Gardell that focuses on European companies, raised $250
million from Virginia Retirement System and $150 million from
the New Jersey Division of Investment.  The New Jersey pension fund, with $69.4 billion in assets
as of May 31, committed $150 million to Wellington Management
Co.’s Bay Pond Partners LP, a Radnor, Pennsylvania-based hedge
fund that invests in stocks of financial-services companies,
using credit default swaps, commodities and currencies to hedge
macro risks.  Peter Gilbert, who runs the $1 billion endowment at  Lehigh
University  in Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania , said he’s heard other
investors complain about the return of long-short funds. His
funds, which he declined to name, have beaten their benchmarks.  “From our point of view they’ve worked out just fine,”
Gilbert said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  