-- Taiwan Bonds Gain as Economic Prospects Weaken; Currency Drops
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-08-22T08:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/taiwan-bonds-advance-most-in-more-than-a-week-on-growth-concern.html
Taiwan ’s government bonds rose as
concern faltering global growth will hurt the island’s exports
spurred demand for safer assets. The local dollar weakened.  Taiwan’s export orders shrank for a fifth month in July,
declining 4.4 percent from a year earlier, official data showed
Aug. 20. French President  Francois Hollande  is due in Berlin
tomorrow to discuss the euro zone’s debt crisis with German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  as the  European Central Bank  fleshes
out its plans to help lower borrowing costs of indebted nations
such as Greece.  “Taiwan’s outlook isn’t looking good,” said  Albert Lee , a
Taipei-based fixed-income trader at Cathay United Bank Co. “The
market’s been very indecisive regarding what the ECB will really
do to contain the crisis.”  The yield on Taiwan’s 1.25 percent notes due March 2022
dropped one basis point to 1.184 percent, according to Gretai
Securities Market.  The Ministry of Finance auctioned NT$30 billion ($1
billion) of 30-year debt yesterday at a higher yield than
investors forecast. The notes were sold at 1.738 percent,
compared with the 1.71 percent median estimate of six traders
surveyed by Bloomberg. Insurance companies, the biggest buyer of
the sale, took 45 percent of the securities, up from 31.6
percent at a similar auction in April.  Concessions are possible for  Greece  if Prime Minister
Antonis Samaras shows a willingness to meet the main targets set
out in his country’s bailout program, a senior lawmaker with
Merkel’s government said yesterday.  Taiwan’s dollar closed 0.1 percent weaker at NT$30.01
against its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings
used to price options, was little changed at 3.2 percent.  The  overnight money-market rate  was little changed at 0.385
percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan
Interbank Money Centre.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  