-- Allstate Hires Gupta to Challenge Buffett, LeBron James
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-08-22T18:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/allstate-hires-gupta-to-challenge-buffett-lebron-james.html
Sanjay Gupta, who led the rebranding
of  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) ’s bank, is joining  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  as the
insurer competes with Geico Corp.’s gecko mascot and  Progressive
Corp. (PGR) ’s spunky saleswoman, Flo, to win customers.  Gupta was named executive vice president and chief
marketing officer of Allstate, the second-largest U.S. auto and
home insurer, according to a statement today from the company.
He will join the Northbrook, Illinois-based firm Sept. 1 and
report to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tom Wilson.  Allstate is increasing spending to promote online car-
insurance provider Esurance, which it purchased last year to
spur sales through the Internet after losing customers for its
namesake brand sold through agents. Gupta is stepping into a
marketing clash that has featured Geico advertisements with
talking pigs and comedian  Gallagher , as well as basketball star
 LeBron James  pitching State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co.
by playing the “world’s smallest violin.”  “Humor lasts longer or is more memorable versus something
that is more fact-based,” said  Brad Adgate , head of research at
Horizon Media, a New York-based advertising company that  works 
with Geico. “It’s not the most exciting of product categories,
so most of the major insurance companies have taken a humorous
approach to their creative messaging.”  Gupta was instrumental in Ally’s May 2009 rebranding of the
former GMAC Bank and the architect of an advertising campaign
that portrayed competing bankers as deceptive. Deposits have
climbed every quarter since the first ads were shown. The lender
was bailed out by the U.S. government in 2008 and is still
 majority owned  by the Treasury Department.  ‘Mind Numbing’  One Ally television advertisement boasts “no more mind-
numbing customer service” and mocks phrases that clients might
hear at rival firms, such as, “Would you like to hold?”; “My
supervisor is currently not available”; and “How can I deliver
world-class service for you today?”  “We thank Sanjay for his contributions to Ally and wish
him well,”  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for the Detroit-based
lender, said in an e-mailed statement. “Ally has a deep bench
of talent that has been integral in the creation and development
of the Ally brand and its marketing strategies.”  Allstate has used pitchman Dennis Haysbert to deliver its
“good hands” motto and Mayhem, a character that causes
accidents, to promote the completeness of its policies. Mark LaNeve had been chief marketing officer at Allstate prior to his
resignation, announced in February.  Geico, a unit of Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ,
led U.S. property-casualty insurers with $993.8 million in
advertising spending last year, according to data compiled by
SNL Financial. State Farm, the biggest U.S. home and auto
insurer, was No. 2, at $813.5 million.  Allstate spent $745.3 million, while Mayfield Village,
Ohio-based Progressive’s cost was $536.1 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 