-- American Eagle Gains After Boosting Full-Year Profit View
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-08-22T20:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/american-eagle-gains-after-boosting-full-year-profit-view.html
American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO) , the
teen-apparel chain that brought in a new chief executive officer
in January, rose the most in three months after raising its
full-year profit forecast amid increasing sales.  The shares  gained  6.2 percent to $22.13 at the close in New
York, the biggest one-day jump since May 21. That’s the highest
closing price since February 2008. The stock has rallied 45
percent this year.  CEO Robert Hanson, who joined American Eagle from Levi
Strauss & Co., has been cutting back inventory, pushing for
faster fashion-item turnaround and improving product assortments
to boost sales and reduce markdowns. Net sales in the first half
rose 14 percent to $1.45 billion from $1.27 billion a year
earlier, according to today’s statement.  “We continue to drive for long-term performance
improvement through fortifying our brands, further strengthening
our products, marketing and customer experience, enhancing
operational disciplines and pursuing growth across  North
America ,” Hanson said in the statement.  Full-year profit will be $1.33 to $1.36 a share, up from a
previous projection of $1.16 to $1.22 a share, the Pittsburgh-
based company said today in a statement. Analysts anticipated
$1.33, the average of 24  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Leaner Inventories’  American Eagle, which operates more than 1,000 stores, said
it sees comparable store sales rising in the mid-single digits
in the third quarter and the low-single digits in the fourth
quarter.  American Eagle has newer and more fashionable merchandise
than rivals  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  and  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO) ,
“supported by its strength in denim as well as improvement in
tops,”  Dorothy Lakner , of Caris & Co. in New York, wrote in a
note today. The company’s “intense focus on leaner inventories
and faster fashion turns is the key to what can be even more
substantial improvement to results.”  The company is set up for a strong back-to-school and
holiday shopping season, according to Lakner, who has a buy
rating on the shares.  Separately,  Express Inc. (EXPR) , a retailer targeting 20- to 30-
year-olds, fell 11 percent to $15.03, the biggest one-day
decline since May 22, after cutting its annual profit forecast.
The shares have lost 25 percent this year.  Annual profit will be as much as $1.79 a share, reduced
from a previous forecast of a maximum of $1.89 a share, the
Columbus, Ohio-based company said today in a statement. The
average of analysts’ estimates was $1.83 a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Callan in  New York  at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  