-- American, US Airways Pilots Said to Study Labor Deal
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-08-23T20:31:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/american-us-airways-pilots-said-to-study-labor-deal.html
Pilots at  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American
Airlines  and their peers at  US Airways  Group Inc. are studying
terms of a transitional labor agreement for a possible merger of
the carriers, three people familiar with the matter said.  The memorandum of understanding, based on a contract signed
earlier between American’s pilots and US Airways, would set a
process to negotiate a longer-term deal for the combined group,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
talks are private.  Acceptance by both pilot groups would further solidify ties
between American’s workers and US Airways, which is pushing for
a merger. Leaders of the  Allied Pilots Association  at American
also met yesterday with US Airways Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker and President Scott Kirby to discuss “the potential for
further industry consolidation,” the union told members.  US Airways also reached agreements in April with unions for
American’s flight attendants and mechanics and baggage handlers
as  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR restructures in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court . Those accords are conditioned on a merger.  Pilots are considered a bellwether work group in airline
labor talks, because they are the U.S. industry’s highest-paid
union employees. An APA spokesman, Tom Hoban, said last week
that the pilots’ rejection of a final contract reflected the
opposition among many members to American CEO  Tom Horton .  Holdout Union  That vote left pilots as the holdout among American’s other
unions, which have agreed to cost-cutting contracts that labor
chiefs say would help speed a takeover by Tempe, Arizona-based
US Airways. AMR is seeking court approval to impose new terms on
pilots as it seeks to reduce industry-leading labor costs.  John McDonald , a US Airways spokesman, and  Bruce Hicks , an
AMR spokesman, both declined to comment on the pilots’ talks.  A combination between American, the third-largest U.S.
airline, and No. 5 US Airways would create the world’s largest
carrier. The prospect of a tie-up has helped  US Airways’ shares 
more than double in price this year. The stock slid 4.9 percent
to $11.04 at the close in New York as U.S. airlines slumped.  AMR’s 6.25 percent convertible notes due in October 2014
rose 1.25 cents to 62.75 cents on the dollar today, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Under the interim term sheet being considered by pilots,
members of the US Airline Pilots Association would move to pay
levels set for American’s APA members in US Airways’ accord with
that union.  Furlough Protections  US Airways pilots would receive furlough protections given
to American pilots and wage safeguards for those pushed to a
lower-paying position, based on the terms now under review. US
Airways pilots also would fly the carrier’s shuttle flights
among  Washington ,  New York  and  Boston  and existing service
between Phoenix and  Hawaii , for a specified period.  Neither of the union’s boards has approved the agreement,
and revisions are possible.  As written, it sets a process to meld the groups’ seniority
lists, a vital issue to pilots because seniority determines pay
scale, schedules and type of aircraft flown. A dispute over
meshing the lists at US Airways means its pilots have worked
under separate contracts since the 2005 merger that created the
carrier from the old US Airways and America West Holdings Corp.  American faced additional pressure yesterday from its
pilots when the APA board approved a strike authorization vote
once the airline implements any givebacks. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Sean Lane is set to rule Sept. 4 on American’s request to void
its current contract.  ‘Unlawful’ Action  “Any form of job action by pilots would be unlawful,
either before or after a decision by the Court on the company’s
motion,” said Hicks, the American spokesman. “The situation we
find ourselves in is a result of a democratic process through
which our pilots rejected the tentative agreement American had
reached with APA’s leadership.”  A strike authorization vote gives APA leaders the right to
call for a work stoppage once the union is legally allowed to do
so by the  National Mediation Board . The board hasn’t yet
declared talks with American at an impasse, one of several steps
that must occur before a strike.  While American and the union have said they are willing to
resume bargaining, no talks have been set.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  