-- Mammoth Lakes, California, Ends Suit Causing Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-08-22T18:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/mammoth-lakes-california-ends-suit-causing-bankruptcy.html
Mammoth Lakes, the  California 
mountain resort town, said it settled the $43 million legal
fight that forced the city into bankruptcy last month.  The town is among three in California that have filed for
bankruptcy since June. Mammoth Lakes’ case differed from
Stockton’s and San Bernardino’s because it blamed a single
event, a court judgment ordering the town to pay $43 million to
a land company.  Details of the settlement will remain secret until final
documents are signed, the city said in a statement.  A breakthrough on talks between the city and the company
came “as a result of a U.S. bankruptcy court-established
mediation,” according to the  statement .  The settlement is between the city and its biggest
creditor, Mammoth Lakes Land Acquisition, which won a
$30 million judgment that grew to $43 million with interest and
legal fees.  Mammoth Lakes, a ski resort community of 8,200 near
Yosemite National Park, has an annual budget of $19 million. It
filed for bankruptcy saying it could not afford to pay the
developer.  The company sued the town in 2006 and accused it of
breaching a development agreement allowing the company to build
homes, retail space, hangars and other structural improvements
near the Mammoth Yosemite Airport. Terrence Ballas, who holds
the development rights at issue in the lawsuit, is part of the
settlement, the city said.  The case is In re Town of Mammoth Lakes, 12-32463,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  -- With assistance from James Nash in  Los Angeles . Editors:
 Charles Carter , Stephen Farr  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 