-- Ancestry Said to Seek Higher Price From Permira and TPG
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-08-23T21:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/ancestry-said-to-seek-higher-buyout-bids-from-permira-and-tpg.html
Ancestry.com Inc. (ACOM) , the family-
history research website, has asked potential buyers including
Permira Advisers LLP and TPG Capital LP to increase their
competing bids for a possible buyout, according to people
familiar with the situation.  Talks are ongoing and a deal might not materialize, said
one of the people, who asked not to be named because the process
is private. Ancestry.com turned down a bid of $35 a share,
another person said. KKR & Co. and Providence Equity Partners
Inc. expressed interest early on yet didn’t submit bids because
they consider the price too high, the people said.  Ancestry.com’s shares have surged 34 percent since June 5,
when Bloomberg reported that the company had hired  Frank
Quattrone ’s Qatalyst Partners LLC to find buyers. The stock
climbed 2.8 percent to $31.10 at the close in  New York , for a
market value of about $1.34 billion.  Heather Erickson, a spokeswoman for Ancestry.com, declined
to comment. Representatives of Permira, TPG, KKR and Providence
declined to comment.  Ancestry.com reported second-quarter sales and profit last
month that topped analysts’ estimates, citing user gains and
demand for new products. The company raised its sales forecast
for 2012 to as much as $480 million and said it passed the 2
million-user milestone in the period by providing access to more
information, including on DNA and U.S. census figures.  Ancestry.com was founded in 1983 as a publisher of
genealogical books and magazines, and later digitized its
content.  -- Editors: Lisa Rapaport, Reed Stevenson  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  