-- Codelco, Anglo Settle Dispute Over Fifth-Biggest Copper Mine
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2012-08-23T19:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/anglo-said-to-be-readying-announcement-of-chile-copper-agreement.html
Codelco, the biggest copper
producer, reached an agreement with  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  to end a
10-month dispute over the world’s fifth-largest copper mine.  Anglo American will reduce its stake in its Sur unit, which
owns the Los Bronces mine in central  Chile , to 50.1 percent from
75.5 percent, according to terms of the deal released today. A
joint venture between Codelco and  Mitsui & Co. (8031)  will buy 29.5
percent of Sur in a cash deal valued at about $2.8 billion.  The arrangement ends a feud that began Oct. 12 when Codelco
announced it secured financing from Mitsui to take up an option
to acquire 49 percent of Sur for about $6 billion. Anglo reacted
by selling a 24.5 percent stake to  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  in November
in a deal that valued Sur at twice that of the Codelco option.
Anglo American and Codelco halted legal proceedings in June to
seek an out-of-court settlement.  “The combination of Anglo American, Codelco, Mitsubishi
and Mitsui forms a compelling proposition for future investment
in the Los Bronces district - one of the world’s most exciting
producing and prospective copper ore bodies - for the benefit of
all our respective shareholders,” Anglo Chief Executive Officer
Cynthia Carroll said in the statement.  Anglo shares rose 1.6 percent to 1,941.5 pence in  London .
By not having to sell 49 percent under terms of the original
option contract, Anglo has generated $2.3 billion of value, UBS
AG analysts wrote in a note to clients today. The settlement
also avoids a more than three-year “acrimonious legal battle in
a politicized environment,” the analysts wrote.  Retains Control  The settlement sees Anglo retain control of Sur, which
includes Los Bronces, where the company completed a $2.8 billion
expansion, and two of the world’s best undeveloped deposits,
according to  John MacKenzie , head of copper at Anglo.  The Codelco-controlled venture with Mitsui will acquire the
29.5 percent stake through two transactions, Anglo said in the
statement. One is a 24.5 percent shareholding for $1.7 billion,
in which Codelco will also receive mining tenements east of its
Andina mine, which is adjacent to Los Bronces. Separately, the
venture will get a 5 percent shareholding, comprising 0.9
percent from Anglo and 4.1 percent from Mitsubishi, for $1.1
billion, according to the statement.  Codelco, which owns 83 percent of the venture with Mitsui,
may sell “small” stakes to the Tokyo-based company after the
Sur transaction is completed, Codelco Chairman Gerardo Jofre
told reporters in Santiago today.  Cash Settlement  The transactions will be settled in cash and Anglo American
intends to use proceeds for general corporate purposes, it said.  Chile’s government will collect $1.33 billion in taxes from
Anglo’s sale of the asset to Codelco,  Thomas Keller , the state-
owned company’s chief executive, told reporters. Raimundo Espinoza, a workers representative on Codelco’s board, voted
against the deal, Jofre said.  For Codelco, the deal will mean an additional 115,000
metric tons of annual copper output, consolidating the company’s
status as the world’s biggest producer, Keller said.  Mitsui will finance Codelco’s purchase of the Sur stake,
allowing the Santiago-based company to pursue a strategy of
expanding existing mines without affecting its  credit rating ,
Keller said.  Codelco plans to spend more than $40 billion over the next
decade revamping copper mines and boosting output to more than 2
million tons a year, according to a June presentation by Keller.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 Jattwood3@bloomberg.net  