-- Apple-Samsung Jury Must Answer More Than 600 Questions
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-08-22T18:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/apple-samsung-jury-must-answer-more-than-600-questions.html
The jurors who will decide the
outcome of the intellectual-property trial between  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  must answer more than 600 questions
simply to get to the end of their verdict form.  The trial over smartphone and tablet patents, which
concluded yesterday in federal court in  San Jose ,  California ,
produced dozens of exhibits, 50 hours of argument and testimony
over three weeks, and a multitude of calculations to arrive at
estimated potential damages of billions of dollars.  That was before U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh started
reading 109 pages of instructions to guide the nine-member jury
through the labyrinthine 20-page verdict form. The exercise,
done yesterday before lawyers gave closing arguments, required
more than two hours, including court-ordered “stand up” breaks
to make sure everyone stayed alert.  The verdict form is a “whopper,” Stanford Law School
professor  Mark Lemley  said in an interview. Asking jurors to
parse three different sets of legal rules for the claims at
issue -- utility patents, design patents and trade dress, or how
a product looks -- “will be particularly hard,” he said.  “The jury needs to figure out what category to put each
patent in, and then remember to apply some of the rules”
contained in the judge’s instructions “to some of the patents,
and other rules to other patents,” he said.  The jury started deliberating today. Federal rules require
that for either side to win, the jury verdict must be unanimous.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, sued Samsung in
April 2011, and Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung countersued.
The case is the first to go before a federal jury in a battle
being waged on four continents for dominance in a smartphone
market valued by Bloomberg Industries at $219.1 billion.  Preliminary Ban  Apple alleges infringement of seven of its patents and
seeks $2.5 billion to $2.75 billion in damages. The world’s most
valuable company also seeks to make permanent a preliminary ban
it won on U.S. sales of a Samsung tablet computer, and extend
the ban to Samsung smartphones.  At least 28 Samsung products are accused of infringement,
and the verdict form requires jurors to specify which corporate
entity -- the Samsung parent company and two U.S. units -- is
responsible for copying and how much in damages, if any, Samsung
owes for each infringing device.  Samsung claims infringement of five of its patents and
seeks as much as $421.8 million in royalties.  The trial, which began July 30, wrapped up yesterday with
two hours of closing arguments by each side.  A lawyer for Apple, Harold McElhinny, said Samsung was so
desperate to catch up with Apple’s smartphones and tablets in
February 2010 that the South Korean company began “three
intense months of copying” the iPhone maker.  ‘Revolutionary’ Designs  He told jurors documents prove better than witness
testimony how Samsung went about changing its mobile devices to
mimic Apple’s “revolutionary” designs.  McElhinny said internal e-mail at Samsung revealed that the
company was experiencing a “crisis of design” due to
competition from the iPhone even as another e-mail sent just two
weeks later showed Samsung was facing pressure from  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
to make its devices look less like Apple’s.  “Samsung realized how far it was falling behind the
iPhone,” McElhinny said. “In those critical three months
Samsung was able to copy and incorporate” Apple’s four years of
research and development “without taking any of the risk,” he
said.  Samsung’s lawyer, Charles Verhoeven, framed the jury’s
decision as one that could shape the future of the technology
industry. If the jury rules in Apple’s favor, he said, big
conglomerates with large patent portfolios would stifle
innovation by blocking out competitors.  ‘Important Decision’  “It’s a very important decision you have to make,” he
said. The decision “could change the way competition works in
this country,” he said. “Rather than compete in the
marketplace, Apple is seeking to gain an edge in the courtroom.
It’s seeking to block its biggest and most serious competitor
from even attending the game.”  Rather than copy the iPhone’s rectangular shape and rounded
corners, Samsung seized on technological advances to design its
devices with full glass screens for the best view of e-mail, an
Internet browser and video, he said.  Verhoeven said Apple’s damages claim is unfounded.  “There was no confusion, deception, consumer harm,” he
said. “Apple is here asking for what it’s not entitled to.”  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Blumberg in  San Francisco  at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  