-- Asia to Cut West African Crude Imports for September by 9.4%
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-08-23T07:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/asia-to-cut-west-african-crude-imports-for-september-by-9-4-.html
Asian refiners will reduce imports
of West African crude in September by 9.4 percent from August to
near the lowest level this year, a survey of six traders and an
analysis of loading plans obtained by  Bloomberg News  showed.  Refiners bought 51 cargoes totaling 1.6 million barrels a
day from  Angola ,  Nigeria , Republic of Congo,  Equatorial Guinea ,
 Democratic Republic  of Congo, Cameroon,  Chad  and Gabon, the
survey showed. This is less than the 59 shipments amounting to
1.76 million barrels a day planned for this month, and close to
the year-low of 1.41 million barrels in July. Exports from
Angola fell below one million for the first time in 2012.  Buyers in Asia can opt between Middle Eastern crudes or
Atlantic Basin grades, and their choice normally depends on the
value of the lighter, sweet blends from the  North Sea  and West
Africa versus heavier, sour grades from  Saudi Arabia  and  Iran .
Lighter crude yields more lucrative products such as diesel and
gasoline. Sweet grades contain less sulfur than sour. The value
of the two is measured by the prices of benchmarks Dated Brent
and Dubai crudes.  “Lower flows in September have firstly been due to a
widening Brent-Dubai spread,” Ehsan Ul-Haq, a senior market
analyst with KBC Energy Economics in Walton-on-Thames,  England ,
said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  The  Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps  averaged $3.45 a barrel
in July, compared with $2.47 in June, according to data from PVM
Oil Associates Ltd. The spread rose to $5.23 on Aug. 13, the
highest since Nov. 8. Traders make less profit from shipping
crudes from  Europe  or West Africa to  Asia  when the spread
between the two contracts widens.  “Maintenance in the North Sea has led to European refiners
buying additional barrels of West African crude to make up for
lower North Sea output,” which reduced availability to Asian
buyers, Ul-Haq said.  Chinese Imports  Refiners in  China  bought 31 cargoes, three less than
August, the survey showed. China International United Petroleum
& Chemical Corp., known as Unipec, cut its purchases by four
lots to 21.  India  will also reduce imports to 14 consignments in
September, three less than this month, the survey showed.  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest refiner, bought nine
shipments, including four lots of Nigerian benchmark Qua Iboe
blend, according to the survey. This compares with seven cargoes
for August.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , which owns the world’s
largest refining complex, will reduce its imports to two
consignments from eight in August, the survey showed.  Taiwan’s state-owned CPC Corp. purchased four shipments of
Angolan crude, one less than this month, the survey showed.  Nigeria will export 2.14 million barrels a day of crude
next month, while Angola will ship 1.63 million barrels,
Bloomberg calculations based on loading programs showed.  Qua Iboe was at $1.54 a barrel more than Dated Brent on
Aug. 21, the highest since June 15, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It was at a premium of $1.52 today.  The following tables show details of planned Asian imports.
Most cargoes are for 950,000 to 1 million barrels. All the
volumes are in barrels a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  