-- U.S. Stocks Erase Loss, Treasuries Gains on Fed Minutes
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-08-22T20:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/asian-stocks-copper-decline-on-japan-data-dell-soybeans-drop.html
U.S. stocks and commodities  reversed
declines , while the dollar slid and Treasuries extended gains,
as Federal Reserve meeting minutes showed many policy makers
backed more monetary easing soon.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added less than 0.1 percent
to 1,413.49 at 4 p.m. in  New York  after falling as much as 0.5
percent before the minutes. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities
rose 0.2 percent, recovering from a 0.6 percent decline, as
natural gas and nickel led gains. The  Dollar Index , a gauge of
the currency against six major peers, lost 0.4 percent to 81.6.
Ten-year Treasury note yields slipped 10 basis points to 1.70
percent.  The record of the Federal Open Market Committee’s July 31-
Aug. 1 gathering showed that “many members” believed more
monetary accommodation would be needed fairly soon unless the
pace of the economic recover picks up. Earlier declines in
stocks today were triggered after a slump in  Japan ’s exports
spurred concern about global demand.  “It’s similar to what the Fed governors have been talking
about in recent speeches, but it’s positive and that’s why
you’ve seen some market reaction,” said Christopher Orndorff,
who helps oversee $450 billion as senior portfolio manager at
Western Asset Management Co. in  Pasadena ,  California . “It’s
still a wait-and-see. The next GDP print will be important, the
next employment numbers will be important.”  Fed Watch  The S&P 500 has rebounded as much as 12 percent from a
five-month low in June and yesterday climbed to its highest
level in four years before  erasing gains  and ending the session
lower. The rally has been driven by  Europe ’s efforts to fight
its debt crisis, better-than-forecast economic data and
speculation that central banks will provide more stimulus if
needed to safeguard the global recovery.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will have an opportunity to
clarify his views in an Aug. 31 speech at a forum for central
bankers in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , where he signaled a second
round of bond buying by the Fed in 2010. Fed officials next meet
on Sept. 12-13.  “The Fed is ready, willing and able to be responsive to
weak economic conditions,” Eric Teal, chief investment officer
at First Citizens Bancshares Inc., which manages $4.5 billion in
Raleigh,  North Carolina , said in a telephone interview.
“There’s a perception that officials want to be ahead of the
curve rather than risk a further slowdown as we go through the
rest of the year.”  Market Leaders  Consumer, commodity and technology shares led gains among
the 10 main groups in the  S&P 500  today.  PulteGroup Inc. and D.R. Horton Inc. climbed more than 3.9
percent for the  biggest gains  in the index. Sales of existing
homes climbed 2.3 percent to a 4.47 million annual rate in July,
rebounding from an eight-month low and adding to signs U.S.
housing may pick up in the second half. Toll Brothers Inc.
advanced 3.8 percent, climbing to a five-year high, after the
luxury home builder’s profit beat estimates.  Discover Financial Services climbed 3.9 percent to a record
$38.43 and EBay Inc. rallied 2.5 percent. The two companies
announced a payment-processing agreement in which customers of
EBay’s PayPal unit can use their accounts at more than 7 million
merchant locations that accept Discover.  Dell Slumps  Dell Inc. sank 5.4 percent after cutting its fiscal 2013
earnings forecast as sales of personal computers weaken,
triggering losses in other technology shares.  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) ,
the second-biggest maker of personal computers, sank 2.7 percent
in  Hong Kong . Samsung Electronics Co., the largest semiconductor
manufacturer, lost 1.4 percent in  Seoul .  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index retreated the most in almost
three weeks, losing 1.2 percent.  Mining companies  led losses,
with BHP Billiton Ltd. falling 1.7 percent in  London  after the
 world’s largest mining company  put $68 billion of projects on
hold. Rio Tinto Group, the third-biggest, declined 2.7 percent.  Heineken NV (HEIA)  dropped 1.1 percent after the brewer reported
first-half earnings before interest and taxes that missed
 analysts’ estimates  as Europeans bought less beer.  Cotton weakened for the first time in four days.
Consumption of the fiber in  China , the largest user, may shrink
11 percent this year, Zhang Hongxia, chairman of Weiqiao Textile
Co., the country’s largest cotton-textile maker, said in an
interview. Gold futures for December delivery rose after the
release of the minutes, climbing 0.8 percent to $1,656.10 an
ounce for a sixth straight gain.  The euro strengthened against 10 of 16 major peers. The
shared currency recovered from earlier declines as European
finance official Olli Rehn said Europe can overcome its debt
crisis with determined work and the region’s central bank has an
important role in ensuring stability in the financial system.  Europe Watch  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  signaled that she’s willing
to discuss a Greek request for more time to meet the terms of
its international rescue, leaving the door open to potential
concessions. Merkel, speaking to reporters in the Moldovan
capital Chisinau today, declined to discuss the request publicly
before meeting with Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras in
Berlin on Aug. 24, saying she’d “have the opportunity to
communicate directly” with him on the matter then. “We won’t
find solutions on Friday,” Merkel said.  ‘Still Weak’  “The global growth picture is still weak and this is
evidenced by sluggish economic and corporate data,” said Allan Yu, who helps manage about $9.4 billion at Manila-based
Metropolitan Bank & Trust Co. “These meetings in Europe will
help set the global tone. If problems come about from these
meetings, we will see a further deterioration in the global
outlook.”  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slid 0.5 percent. The Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in
Hong Kong retreated 1.3 percent, and  Russia ’s Micex Index
slipped 0.3 percent.  Vietnam’s benchmark stocks index slumped for a second day,
losing 1.6 percent. The gauge plunged 4.7 percent yesterday, the
most since 2008, as Vietnam’s arrest of Nguyen Duc Kien, the
founder of several banks, sparked concern about the
vulnerability of the country’s financial system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  