-- Hated Hedge Funder, Real Estate Lust, LaBute’s ‘Furies’
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-08-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/hated-hedge-funder-real-estate-lust-labute-s-furies-.html
Like a shoeshine boy hyping stocks,
a New York musical about real estate may signal a time to sell.  The delightful “Love and Real Estate” poses a more
immediate question, whether a cad (Kevin Greene) has an ulterior
motive in romancing three sisters endowed with swell apartments.  The abbreviated but mayhem-filled fable is by  Sam Davis  and
Sean Hartley, with a fine cast that includes newcomer Jessica
Hershberg, who suggests a singing-and-dancing  Tina Fey . Narrator
 Edward Hibbert  sings the wistful title song, about a fling with
a handsome broker hawking a penthouse with a partial river view.  “Love and Real Estate” is one of three offerings in
Series B of “Summer Shorts 2012” at  Manhattan ’s  59E59
Theaters . It begins with Paul Rudnick’s “Cabin Pressure,” a
slight comic monologue about an attendant (Peter Bartlett) who
foils a terrorist plot on a Los Angeles-bound flight.  At his valedictory press conference held on the  Lincoln
Memorial , the gay, celebrity-obsessed hero mocks the size of
Mariah Carey’s entourage as well as the obnoxious hedge fund
manager who was less popular on the flight than the terrorist.  Neil LaBute’s “The Furies” ends the 90-minute program
with a hilarious three-hander about a middle-aged man ( Victor
Slezak ) severing a relationship with his lover (J.J. Kandel, who
is also the evening’s executive producer). The younger man
brings his excitable yet taciturn sister (Alicia Goranson) for
support. Her ardent, quizzical expressions as the older man
explains his predicament are comically awkward in the extreme
and worth the $25 price of admission.  Through Sept. 1 at 59 E. 59th St. Information: +1-212-753-
5959, ext. 102;  http://59e59.org . Rating: ****  (Philip Boroff is a writer for Muse, the arts and leisure
 section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  dining  and  art  reviews.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 