-- ATP Wins Approval for Credit Suisse Bankruptcy Financing
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-08-22T20:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/atp-wins-approval-for-credit-suisse-bankruptcy-financing.html
ATP Oil & Gas Corp. (ATPG) , the Gulf of
Mexico oil producer that filed for bankruptcy last week, was
given preliminary approval by a judge for $618 million in
financing.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Marvin Isgur in Houston yesterday
gave interim approval to the financing from  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN)  and other lenders after requiring changes to some terms.  “What we have is a situation where the debtor is
absolutely out of cash, and the alternatives we are left with
are to allow the debtor to proceed in a disorderly or orderly
liquidation now or to give the debtor an opportunity to get back
on its feet,” the judge said.  ATP filed for bankruptcy Aug. 17, blaming the 2010
Deepwater Horizon oil rig explosion in the Gulf of Mexico and
the drilling moratorium that followed. Houston-based ATP
operates about 90 percent of its wells in the Gulf, according to
a court filing, and the moratorium blocked plans to drill and
bring online six wells in 2010 and 2011, it said.  ATP also drilled disappointing wells, missed production
targets and stumbled to execute marquee offshore oil
developments. During the past three years, the company lost the
equivalent of $1.1 million a day as equipment failures and
unforeseen geological hurdles in the  Gulf of Mexico  frustrated
efforts to lift crude output.  New Money  The bankruptcy financing provides $250 million in new money
and refinances $367.6 million in debt, according to court
papers. Lenders include Credit Suisse, Fortress Credit
Opportunities I LP and MSD Credit Opportunity Master Fund LP.
ATP said it plans to initially borrow as much as $80 million in
new money.  Isgur said in an order that ATP was “prejudiced” by the
refinancing because the debt will be required to be paid in full
in cash.  “Nevertheless, the court sustains ATP’s business judgment
that the risk of such a cash payment requirement is justified by
the benefits of the $250 million in new cash,” he wrote.  Isgur said ATP won’t default if it seeks appointment of a
chief restructuring officer who hasn’t been approved by “any
other person or entity.” ATP was initially required to find a
CRO acceptable to lenders, according to court papers. The judge
also authorized ATP to pledge assets of its subsidiaries for a
loan of as much as $25 million.  ATP Chief Financial Officer Albert Reese testified at the
hearing that the company can’t operate without the financing.
Operations in the Gulf “will immediately come to a grinding
halt,” he said. The company said it filed for bankruptcy with
less than $10 million in cash.  ATP said the financing will allow the company to complete a
pipeline for two wells in the Gulf known as the Clipper wells.  ATP is scheduled to return to court Sept. 20 for final
approval of the loan.  The case is In re ATP Oil & Gas Corp., 12-36187,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  