-- Australia Stock Futures Gain, Japan Little Changed on Fed
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-08-22T23:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/australia-stock-futures-gain-japan-little-changed-on-fed.html
Australian stock futures gained
after minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s last meeting showed
many policy makers favored more stimulus soon. Japanese index
futures were little changed.  QR National Ltd. (QRN) , Australia’s largest coal-train operator,
and Iluka Resources Ltd., the world’s biggest zircon producer,
may be active after full-year profit topped estimates. Shares of
 Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s top carrier, may be active
after reporting a larger-than-estimated loss of A$245 million.  Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 0.2
percent today. Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average futures
contracts were bid in the pre-market at 9,080 in Osaka at 8:05
a.m. local time. They closed at 9,075 in Chicago, compared with
9,110 in Osaka yesterday. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.1
percent in Wellington.  “U.S. policy makers are frustrated with the anemic pace of
the recovery and this increased the odds that some form of
additional Fed easing will be implemented at the central bank’s
September meeting,” said Matthew Sherwood, Perpetual
Investments’ head of investment markets research in Sydney.
Perpetual manages about $23 billion. “Some form of quantitative
easing is coming soonish.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The  S&P 500  rose less than 0.1 percent yesterday,
reversing a 0.5 percent drop after the Fed minutes were released
in Washington.  More Stimulus  Many Fed policy makers said additional stimulus would
probably be needed soon unless the economy shows signs of a
durable pickup, according to the record of the Federal Open
Market Committee’s July 31-Aug. 1 gathering.  Policy makers said after the meeting that they will step up
record stimulus if needed to spur growth and cut a jobless rate
stuck above 8 percent since February 2009. Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  will have an opportunity to clarify his views in an
Aug. 31 speech at a forum for central bankers in  Jackson Hole ,
Wyoming, where he signaled a second round of bond buying by the
Fed in 2010. Fed officials next meet on Sept. 12-13.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  meet today to discuss Europe’s fiscal crisis.
Merkel signaled she’s willing to discuss Greece’s request for
more time to meet the terms of its international rescue, leaving
the door open to potential concessions.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index rallied 11 percent through
yesterday from this year’s lowest level on June 4 amid
speculation global central banks will take action to stimulate
growth. Stocks on the measure were valued at 12.5 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.7 for the S&P
500 and 11.7 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. advanced 0.4 percent to 90.08
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  