-- Beef Herd Tumbles to 40-Year Low After Feed Costs Surge
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n ,   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-08-23T20:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/beef-herd-tumbles-to-40-year-low-on-feed-cost-surge-commodities.html
The worst U.S. drought in a half
century and record feed prices are spurring farmers to shrink
cattle herds to the smallest in two generations, driving beef
prices higher.  Beef output will slump to a nine-year low in 2013 after
drought damaged pastures from  Missouri  to  Montana , the U.S.
Department of Agriculture estimates. The domestic herd is now
the smallest since at least 1973, and retail prices reached a
record last month, USDA data show. Cattle futures may rise 8.1
percent to an all-time high of $1.35 a pound in Chicago in the
next 12 months, said  Rich Nelson , the chief strategist at
Allendale Inc. who has tracked the market for 15 years.  Feedlots are losing $300 a head this month fattening cattle
for slaughter, after corn surged 61 percent since June 15,
 University of Missouri  data show.  JBS (JBSS3)  SA, the largest beef
producer, fast-food chain  Wendy’s Co. (WEN)  and Red Robin Gourmet
Burgers Inc. are among those planning price increases. The USDA
expects food inflation of as much as 4 percent in 2013, compared
with an average of 3 percent since 2004. A United Nations gauge
of global food costs jumped 6.2 percent in July.  “We’ve had a huge liquidation off of pastures,” said Walt Hackney, 74, who buys and sells 250,000 cattle a year in Omaha,
 Nebraska , and has worked in the livestock business for about a
half century. “It’s all due to the drought. There’s no grass
for them to graze on.”  Eight Commodities  After rising 12 percent since late April, cattle are now
2.9 percent higher for the year at $1.24925. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index of eight commodities advanced 18
percent since the start of January, and the MSCI All-Country
World Index of equities added 8.3 percent. Treasuries returned
1.8 percent, a Bank of America Corp. Index shows.  Beef output in the U.S., the world’s largest producer, will
drop 3.9 percent to 24.575 billion pounds (11.147 million metric
tons) next year, the lowest since 2004, the USDA estimates. The
domestic herd across ranches, feedlots and dairies dropped to
97.8 million head on July 1, the smallest for the date in at
least 39 years, the latest data show.  The domestic price of beef will rise as much as 5 percent
next year, more than any other  food group  including fruits,
cereals and dairy products, the USDA estimated on July 25. Pork
may increase by 3.5 percent and poultry 4 percent, the agency
said. Retail ground-beef averaged $3.085 a pound in July, the
highest since at least 1984, and whole chickens were $1.454 a
pound last month, the highest in at least 32 years, according to
the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Eating Corn  Cattle spend 12 to 18 months eating  grass  before they are
sent to feedlots, where they consume mostly corn for five months
until they are fat enough for slaughter. The drought has left
pastures in the worst condition since at least 1995, with 59
percent rated poor or very poor on Aug. 19, the government
estimates. The corn harvest will drop 13 percent this year to
10.779 billion bushels, the USDA said Aug. 10. The grain reached
a record $8.49 a bushel in  Chicago  that day.  Prices for hay, the third-biggest domestic crop by value,
have also surged. This year’s alfalfa harvest will probably be
the smallest since 1953, and the price of meal made from the
crop was $334 a ton yesterday in  Kansas City , Missouri, up from
as low as $239 a year earlier, the USDA estimates.  Slaughter Increases  A faster slaughter may initially drive prices lower. Almost
3.09 million cows were culled in the first half of the year,
compared with a 10-year average of 2.8 million, USDA data show.
The figures have “increased dramatically” since early June
because of the drought, the department said in an Aug. 16
report.  Demand for exports may slow as a strengthening dollar makes
shipments from Australia and Brazil more attractive,  David Nelson , an analyst at Rabobank International in Chicago, said in
an Aug. 13 report. U.S. exports in the first half were 11
percent smaller than a year earlier, government data show.  U.S. consumption of red meat and poultry will fall below
200 pounds per person next year for the first time since 1990,
the USDA  predicts . Retail beef reached an all-time high of
$4.715 a pound in July, according to the USDA’s composite price,
which includes choice beef, other beef and hamburger values. The
Iowa Corn Growers Association estimates one bushel of the grain
converts to 5.6 pounds of retail beef.  Fewer Calves  The expansion in supply probably won’t last long because it
will “curtail the already limited availability of calves this
fall,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts said in a report last
month. The bank anticipates a futures price of $1.15 in three
months and $1.30 in 12 months. Prices next year may exceed the
Feb. 22 record of $1.315, Rabobank estimates.  “Our U.S. cow-herd population is low, and there’s not
going to be much adding to the herd with the drought going on,”
said Henry Beel, 40, who co-owns a 1,200-head cattle business
with his brothers near Johnstown, Nebraska. Beel Brothers LLC
has reduced its breeding herd by selling heifers to feedlots,
which means “there’s going to be a smaller amount of cattle
available to the packing plants” next year, he said.  The slide in output may not stop until 2016 or 2017, Rachel
J. Johnson, a USDA livestock economist, wrote in an Aug. 16
report. Once the herd starts to expand, it takes more than two
years to boost supplies, according to  Ron Plain , a livestock
economist at the University of Missouri. Calves have a nine-
month gestation period and take about 20 months to reach
slaughter weight, he said.  Raising Prices  “We expect higher beef cost will be the largest driver”
of commodity spending at Dublin, Ohio-based Wendy’s, Stephen E. Hare, the chief financial officer, told analysts in an Aug. 9
earnings conference call. The company, which operates more than
6,500 fast-food restaurants, will “implement selective price
increases” and cut other expenditures, Hare said.  Wesley Batista, the chief executive officer of Sao Paulo-
based JBS, said on a conference call Aug. 15 that the company
will raise beef prices because of the grain rally, without
saying by how much.  Red Robin (RRGB) , the  Greenwood Village , Colorado-based restaurant
operator, said on an earnings conference call on Aug. 9 that the
chain will be making “modest” price increases partly because
of the outlook for rising commodities and the impact of the
drought.  Steakhouses  Arne Haak, chief financial officer of Ruth’s Hospitality
Group Inc., the owner of upscale steakhouses, said on an
earnings conference call on July 27 that higher beef costs are
hurting the Heathrow, Florida-based company’s bottom line. The
company is evaluating “additional menu engineering and pricing
opportunities,” he said.  Federal Reserve policy makers “acknowledged that the
drought would likely result in a temporary run-up in consumer
food prices later this year,” according to minutes of the
Federal Open Market Committee’s July 31-Aug. 1 gathering
released yesterday.  Expensive grain also is hurting livestock producers from
 Asia  to Europe. The Korea Feed Association, South Korea’s
biggest grain importer, urged the U.S. in July to consider
cutting the use of corn and soybeans in biofuel  production . The
Asian country gets about 80 percent of its feed corn from
American growers.  In Germany, Europe’s biggest pig producer, farmers lost
about 30 euro-cents (38 cents) on every kilogram (2.2 pounds) of
pork sold in the first half, said Matthias Quaing, a consultant
at farm group Interessengemeinschaft der Schweinehalter
Deutschlands. The U.K.’s National Pork Association estimates
farmers accounting for 10 percent of the country’s output may
leave the business by late December.  ‘Losing Money’  “We’re  losing money  on every pig we sell,” said James
Hart, a second-generation producer in Cirencester,  England , who
will sell the last of his pigs in November. “The problem in the
Midwest states and the critical drought is driving our corn
prices and our wheat prices around the world to levels we’ve
never seen before.”  In the U.S., hog farmers may lose $25 a pig in the fourth
quarter, said  Scott Brown , an agricultural economist at the
University of Missouri in Columbia. Higher feed costs are
detrimental to the credit ratings of producers including  Tyson
Foods Inc. (TSN) ,  Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. (PPC)  and  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) ,
Moody’s Investors Service said in a report Aug. 16.  Dan Harris, the owner of the Holton Livestock Exchange in
Holton, Kansas, said he is selling twice as many cattle as usual
for this time of year. Less than half the normal amount of rain
fell in parts of the state during the past 30 days, according to
the  National Weather Service . Without more moisture, producers
will keep shrinking herds, Harris said by phone Aug. 15.  “People are selling their calves 60 to 90 days early to
preserve their cow herds,” he said. “Conditions will not
improve until we get some rain.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  