-- Belize Seeks to Avoid Default on Superbonds Through Talks
-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s   a n d   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-08-22T19:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/belize-sees-debt-solution-through-talks-prime-minister-says-1-.html
Belize’s government aims to
restructure its debt through negotiations with bondholders and
will consider any proposal presented, Prime Minister Dean Barrow
told reporters in  Belize City  today.  The country has worked in “good faith” with its creditors
and is willing to discuss alternative restructuring scenarios,
Barrow said, while stating that the government would only accept
proposals that involved sustainable debt levels.  “Debt sustainability is the whole and entire object of
this exercise,” Barrow said. “It is clear that serious good
faith, face-to-face negotiations are the only root to a
consensual solution.”  The Central American country skipped a $23 million coupon
payment on $544 million of bonds due in 2029 on Aug. 20. Finance
Secretary Joseph Waight said the same day that the government is
unlikely to make the payment during a 30-day grace period and
has instead offered bondholders three different restructuring
options.  Facing slowing economic growth and rising expenditures
after the nationalization of telecommunications and electricity
companies, Barrow said the $1.4 billion economy couldn’t afford
to continue payments on the debt. The coupon on the bonds
climbed to 8.5 percent this year from 6 percent as part of an
agreement reached with bondholders in a 2007 restructuring.  Superbond  The price on the so-called superbond rose 0.49 cents to
34.99 at 2:41p.m.  New York  time. The bonds were trading at about
50 cents the first week of August, before the government said it
would be unable to make the coupon payment.  In response to the missed payment,  Standard & Poor’s 
lowered Belize’s credit rating to selective default yesterday
and said investors were likely to recover 30 percent to 50
percent of the face value in a restructuring.  “We really don’t want things to get to that point,”
Barrow said when asked about the possibility of default. Belize
can stay out of international credit markets in the case of
default, though that “is not a prospect that we like to
contemplate for the reason that we are certain that we can reach
an agreement with the creditors,” he said.  Wedged between Mexico and  Guatemala  on the Caribbean coast,
Belize’s tourism and services-dependent economy expanded 2
percent in 2011. Manufacturing and construction made up 21
percent of the economy, while agriculture and fishing’s
contribution fell for a sixth consecutive year, to 11 percent,
according to the central bank.  Restructuring Scenarios  Two of the  three restructuring scenarios  Barrow’s
government has proposed call for a 45 percent principal
reduction, a lower coupon and a maturity extension to 2042 from
2029. The third option includes the reduction of the 8.5 percent
coupon rate to 2 percent with a 15-year principal grace period
and a maturity date extension to 2062, the central bank said
Aug. 8.  “It may appear Belize is asking for a lot but we aren’t
asking for more than the circumstances require,” Barrow said.
“For the benefit of Belizeans and our long-term creditors, it
is time to put out this fire, once and for good.”  Barrow said the government has maintained “consistent
conversation” with the  Inter-American Development Bank  and
 International Monetary Fund , as well as the  U.S. Treasury . The
country’s debt restructuring team heads to Washington D.C. today
to approach the financial institutions about receiving
additional assistance and reforming development and growth
policies, Barrow said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bill Faries in Belize City at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Williams in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 