-- Best Europe Banks Share Stockholm Square: Riskless Return
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-08-22T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/best-europe-banks-share-stockholm-square-riskless-return.html
Some of the best bank returns in
 Europe  are found around a tree-lined square in  Stockholm  that
used to serve as the Swedish Royal family’s cabbage patch.  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Nordea (NDA)  Bank AB and SEB AB, all
based at Kungstraedgaarden park, along with  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  are
among the top 10 European banks by risk-adjusted return in the
past decade, according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING.
Handelsbanken has the second-best returns and Nordea, the Nordic
region’s largest bank, is ranked fourth among the 38 companies
in the Bloomberg Banks and Financial Services Index.  “The only risk we like is the ultimate credit risk that’s
managed through our branch network,” Ulf Riese, chief financial
officer at Handelsbanken, said in an interview. “Banking should
be free of thrills -- we’re in the trust business.”  The banks have focused on retail banking in the  Nordic
countries , a wealthy region with an extensive welfare system,
and avoided the worst of Europe’s debt crisis. Regulators,
drawing on lessons from the Nordic banking crisis in the early
1990s, are pushing through tighter capital standards than
required elsewhere and raising risk-weights on mortgages, in a
preemptive move to make the banks less vulnerable to declines in
property prices.  The Swedish banks, which also have businesses in  Finland ,
 Denmark  and  Norway , are only surpassed by Finland’s  Pohjola Bank
Oyj (POH1S) , which had a risk-adjusted return of 6.7 percent in the past
10 years. Handelsbanken was the best performer by risk-adjusted
return over the past five years, and Swedbank was top-ranked
over the past three years as well as since the start of this
year.  Low Volatility  The top 10 banks over the past decade also include Norway’s
 DNB ASA (DNB) , with a return of 4.1 percent, meaning six of the top 10
European lenders are Nordic. The Nordic region has emerged as a
haven from Europe’s crisis because of its fiscal prudence.
 Sweden  is posting balanced budgets and Denmark and Finland have
stayed within European Union deficit rules. Norway, backed by
its oil, has a $620 billion sovereign wealth fund and no net
debt.  Handelsbanken outperformed in part because it had the
second-lowest volatility among banks with positive returns,
trailing only HSBC Plc. Handelsbanken produced a total return of
162 percent over the past 10 years and a volatility of 32, for a
risk-adjusted return of 5.1 percent. Nordea returned 4.4 percent
after adjusting for price swings, Swedbank 1.8 percent and SEB
0.8 percent.  Crisis Lessons  The risk-adjusted return isn’t annualized. It’s calculated
by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree of daily
price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of risk. A
higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  The performance of Sweden’s banks is “mainly a result of
experiences and useful insights during the Nordic banking
crisis,” said Anders Nyren, chief executive officer of Swedish
investment company Industrivaerden AB, which owns 11 percent of
Handelsbanken. There’s also “a strong macro environment in the
Nordic region and the fact that the more stable retail business
stands for a larger part of the Nordic banks’ operations,” he
said.  The Swedish banking market crashed in the early 1990s after
deregulation caused a rapid credit expansion and later a real
estate crash. The government stepped in with bailouts and took
over failing banks. Two bankrupt lenders, Nordbanken and Gota,
were merged by the state and had their bad loans dumped in so-
called bad banks. The merged company later combined with banks
in Finland, Denmark and Norway to form Stockholm-based Nordea.  Tighter Rules  Swedish regulators are now imposing tougher capital
standards for its four biggest lenders than the minimums
proposed by the European Union and the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision . The banks will need to meet common equity
Tier 1  capital ratios  of at least 10 percent from 2013, and 12
percent two years later, compared with Basel’s minimum of 7
percent, due to take effect by 2019. The European Banking
Authority has set a temporary 9 percent target for some lenders.  Finance Minister  Anders Borg  also last week backed a
Financial Supervisory Authority proposal to “eventually”
tighten risk weights on Swedish  mortgage loans , which would
lower ratios by as much as 2.5 percentage points. Sweden has had
lower risk weights on home loans because the extensive welfare
safety net makes default less probable.  Housing Concerns  “Should it help keep the housing market in check, while
increasing banks buffers, it is undoubtedly a boon for the
Swedish economy and Swedish banks,”  Roger Josefsson , Stockholm-
based chief economist at Danske Bank A/S in Stockholm, said.
“The reason for Sweden’s stricter capital rules is that the
banking system is relatively big in comparison with the economy
and that banks rely more on foreign funding than many other
banks, so from that perspective, this makes sense.”  Even after shaving 2.5 percentage points off capital
ratios, Nordic banks would still surpass their European peers.
Nordic banks with a market capitalization of more than $1
billion have a median capital ratio of 15.2 percent, compared
with a median of 11.6 percent for the remaining western European
lenders, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Swedish regulators say stricter standards are necessary
because the bank’s make up about four times the size of the $540
billion economy. Sweden, which has opted out of the euro, has
seen its economy withstand a contraction in the euro area.
Growth was 1.4 percent in the second quarter from the three
months through March, seven times the pace economists estimated.  Swedish Risk  “The risks at the Swedish banks are much smaller than at
our European peers,” Goran Bronner, Swedbank’s chief financial
officer, said in a phone interview. “Sweden is a very
homogenous market. The experiences from the early 1990s are
incredibly important.”  Nordea has used its strength to become the  third-largest
bank  in Europe last month among 20 Nordic, German, French,
Spanish, Italian, Austrian and U.K. lenders in terms of market
capitalization. Spain’s Santander SA and France’s  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) 
are larger. Handelsbanken was No. 8, up from 18th in 2007,
according a Nordea presentation last month.  Nordea’s shares have returned 23 percent in Stockholm this
year, before adjusting for volatility, and Handelsbanken’s have
climbed 35 percent, compared with a 9.2 percent gain in the
Bloomberg Banks and Financial Services Index. Swedbank is up 38
percent and SEB has jumped 30 percent. The four banks, along
with HSBC and Switzerland’s Julius Baer Group Ltd., have the
lowest volatility of all stocks in the index this year.  Best Capitalized  At the end of last year, Swedbank and Handelsbanken were
the two best-capitalized lenders in Europe under  Basel II  on a
Riksbank ranking of 24 of the region’s largest banks, including
 Deutsche Bank (DBK)  AG, BNP, Barclays, UBS AG and Santander. SEB was
No. 4 and Nordea claimed the seventh spot.  Their capital ratios have been partly inflated as Sweden’s
risk-weights on mortgage loans are below 10 percent, according
to the central bank. A potential increase to 20 percent would
have cut Swedbank’s Basel III based common equity Tier 1 ratio
by 2.5 percentage points to 12.3 percent, according to the
central bank. Handelsbanken would see its ratio narrow to 12.4
percent from 14.6 percent.  Handelsbanken is Europe’s strongest lender and the No. 10
globally, according to a May Bloomberg ranking that looked at
measures such as cost efficiency, loan loss reserves, non-
performing assets and capital and deposits to funding.  In the second quarter, Handelsbanken reported a 9 percent
increase in profit to 3.41 billion kronor ($510 million) amid
higher lending income. The loan-loss ratio was 0.07 percent in
the quarter, compared with 0.09 percent at Swedbank, 0.26
percent at Nordea and 0.08 percent at SEB.  ‘Risk Awareness’  “Risk awareness is clearly a long-term benefit to the
banks’ shareholders,” Industrivaerden’s Nyren said. “This is
quite clear if you look at the return on equity development and
the risk-adjusted return in Handelsbanken.”  Handelsbanken’s return on equity rose to 14.4 percent in
the second quarter from 13.8 percent in the first, according to
the Swedish lender’s second-quarter earnings report. That
surpassed Deutsche Bank’s 5.5 percent and Santander’s 4.8
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We don’t think we can create any value by knowing where
the value of the dollar is going, for example,” Riese said.
“Of course you have to have some market risk in a bank, but we
always minimize this risk.”  Expansion Bets  Other Swedish lenders were caught with losses in the
Baltics, which suffered the steepest recessions in the European
Union in 2008 and 2009 after a property bubble burst. Swedbank
and SEB both suffered  soaring loan losses  in the region, with
Swedbank reporting a net loss of 10.5 billion kronor in 2009
after credit impairments jumped.  The region has since rebounded, and after returning to
profit in the first quarter of 2010, Swedbank reported net
income of 3.16 billion kronor in the second quarter this year.  “Swedbank and other Nordic banks grew in the Baltic
countries and were a little bit to pre-occupied with expansion
and partly forgot the macro-aspects, which was an expensive
lesson,” Swedbank’s Bronner said. “Still, the Baltics are a
small part of our business and the main part is in Sweden.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  