-- Best Buy Said to Resume Schulze Talks on Due Diligence
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-08-23T13:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/best-buy-said-to-resume-talks-with-schulze-on-due-diligence.html
     Aug. 23 (Bloomberg) -- Best Buy Co. has resumed talks with
founder Richard Schulze about an agreement that would allow him
to conduct due diligence in his effort to acquire the company,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Best Buy initiated the discussions shortly after announcing
quarterly  earnings  that missed analysts’ estimates on Aug. 21,
said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because
the negotiations are private. The two sides may reach an
agreement later this week, or talks could again break down, the
person said.  The largest U.S. electronics retailer has lost 13 percent
of its value this week as investors bet that Schulze’s Aug. 6
proposal to buy it for as much as $9.5 billion is becoming less
likely. Interim Chief Executive Officer  Mike Mikan  said Aug. 21
on Best Buy’s earnings conference call that the due diligence
offer still stands.  “Schulze needs a next step to rally support,”  Matt Arnold , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  Des Peres ,  Missouri ,
said yesterday by telephone. He rates Best Buy as hold. “It
seems there’s very little confidence that something like that is
going to materialize.”  Best Buy rose 2.1 percent to $18.10 at 9:45 a.m. in New
York. The shares dropped 24 percent this year through yesterday.  Schulze has resisted Best Buy’s offer to access
confidential financial information because of restrictions the
company is seeking as part of such an agreement, the people
familiar with the negotiations said. Richfield, Minnesota-based
Best Buy, for example, wants to limit Schulze’s ability to
contact the board and management or to replace directors if the
company rejects his takeover proposal, said these people.  Scuttled Talks  Best Buy is also asking for a fully committed offer from
Schulze within 60 days and is stipulating that it remain in
place for several months, the people said. Schulze is seeking 90
days to obtain financing and doesn’t want to incur millions of
dollars in fees for keeping commitments together for an extended
period, they said.  Similar points scuttled talks this past weekend, prompting
Best Buy to announce that negotiations with Schulze were at a
standstill. The company also hired Hubert Joly as its new CEO.  Schulze was willing to agree to a five-month lock-up with
no restrictions on his ability to replace the board if it
rejected his offer. Best Buy initially wanted an 18-month lock-
up and later modified that to 12 months, before reducing that to
four months with limits on Schulze’s ability to speak with Best
Buy’s management or replacing the board, one of the people said.  Committed Financing  Best Buy is willing to waive a Minnesota takeover law that
Schulze says is limiting his ability to line up private-equity
investors and committed financing, the person said.  The sides’ law firms, Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP for
Best Buy and Shearman & Sterling LLP for Schulze, were in talks
over the weekend before negotiations collapsed Aug. 19.  Steve Lipin, a Best Buy spokesman who works for Brunswick 
Group, said the company had no comment. David Reno, a spokesman 
for Schulze, declined to comment by e-mail.  Along with the law firms,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is
negotiating for Best Buy and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  for Schulze,
said one of the people. Spokesmen for Goldman Sachs and Credit
Suisse declined to comment.  Schulze is likely willing to give in on the demand for an
offer within 60 days, the person said.  The New York Times reported yesterday that talks between
Best Buy and Schulze were continuing.  Suspended Forecast  The company reported Aug. 21 second-quarter profit that
trailed analysts’ estimates and suspended providing an earnings
forecast as sales of computers and televisions dropped.  This week Best Buy named Joly as CEO to oversee a
turnaround plan that entails shifting to smaller locations in a
bid to fend off Amazon.com Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. Joly,
CEO of Carlson Cos., a Minneapolis-based operator of hotels,
restaurants and a travel agency, will take over in September,
replacing Mikan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  