-- Black Hole at Bethpage Awaits PGA Tour’s Best as Playoffs Begin
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-08-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/bethpage-s-new-black-hole-awaits-pga-tour-best-as-playoffs-begin.html
Phil Mickelson  said the cheering
crowds he heard at the 17th hole during the 2002 U.S. Open at
 New York ’s Bethpage Black course were as loud as he’s heard in
20 years in professional golf.  That may be topped this week at Bethpage State Park on Long
Island, where the Barclays tournament starts the U.S.  PGA Tour ’s
FedExCup playoffs. The par-3 17th hole will be surrounded by
grandstands to create an amphitheater setting that will
accommodate thousands of fans similar to the environment at the
raucous 16th hole at the Phoenix Open.  “It’s such a great setting for golf,” Mickelson said
during a July 30 conference call. “To have that kind of stadium
effect is going to be really special for the players, something
that we’ll really remember.”  Mickelson, 42, and the rest of the Tour’s best players tee
off tomorrow in the opening round of the four-day tournament.
It’s the first in a four-event playoff series that ends with a
$10 million bonus for the champion.  Bethpage’s 17th will probably be the course’s most popular
hole this week, drawing about 4,500 fans to a location that
tournament director Peter Mele has dubbed the “Black Hole.”  The 207-yard par-3 is lined with hospitality venues on each
side and a steep hillside behind the green will also be filled
with fans. While the hole’s total capacity is far less than the
approximately 20,000 that cram into the double-decker bleachers
at the 16th hole in  Arizona , Mele noted that New Yorkers have
little problem making noise.  “It’s a pretty intimidating hole,” Mele said.  Open Fans  A decade ago, on the Saturday of the first of two U.S.
Opens at Bethpage, Mickelson drained a 25-foot birdie putt to
pull within two shots of eventual winner  Tiger Woods , and
boisterous fans were trying to lift the left-hander to his first
major title. While he finished second and didn’t win his first
major until the 2004 Masters, Mickelson said he never forgot
Bethpage, where he also finished as runner-up in 2009.  “It was louder than just about anything I’ve ever
experienced on tour,” Mickelson said.  The 17th-hole galleries at the Opens passed the time with
football crowd-style chants, cheered when vendors delivered beer
kegs to concession stands and shouted occasional insults after
shots or putts they deemed unworthy of applause.  “When you’re playing up here in New York, it’s pretty
loud,”  Dustin Johnson , the 2011 Barclays winner at New Jersey’s
Plainfield Country Club, said in a press conference on Aug. 21.
“It’s a lot of fun.”  Qualifying Rules  Mickelson comes into the Barclays ranked 14th in the
season-long FedExCup points standings. The top 125 players
qualified for the playoff opener, which was shortened to 54
holes from 72 last year due to hurricane Irene.  Woods, the PGA Tour’s only three-time winner this season,
leads the standings, 159 points ahead of fellow American  Jason Dufner  and 567 points ahead of  PGA Championship  winner Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland.  Woods and McIlroy are the tournament’s co-favorites, with
8-1 odds to win, and are paired together in the same group for
the first two rounds.  Luke Donald ,  Justin Rose ,  Adam Scott ,
Bubba Watson and  Steve Stricker  have 20-1 odds.  A two-time winner of the points title, Woods failed to
qualify for the 2011 playoffs for the first time since the
format was introduced five years ago. He was winless in full-
field U.S. events in 2011 for the second straight season, with
two top-10 finishes.  Woods, 36, rebounded this season with wins at the Arnold
Palmer Invitational, the Memorial Tournament and the AT&T
National, an event the 14-time major tournament winner hosts at
Congressional Country Club in Bethesda, Maryland.  PGA Tour Playoffs  After the Barclays, which has rotated to courses around the
New York and northern New Jersey area since 2007, the field will
be cut to 100 players for next week’s Deutsche Bank Championship
at the TPC Boston course in Norton,  Massachusetts .  The field will then get reduced to the top 70 players for
the BMW Championship at Crooked Stick Golf Club. It’s the first
time Crooked Stick will host a PGA Tour event since  John Daly 
won the 1991 PGA Championship at the Carmel, Indiana, course.  After a one-week break, the remaining 30 players on the
points list will contend for the FedExCup title at the Tour
Championship at East Lake Golf Club in Atlanta.  A year ago,  Bill Haas  won the tournament and bonus when he
beat  Hunter Mahan  in a three-hole playoff that included Haas
saving par with a watery wedge shot from the edge of a lake on
the second playoff hole.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  