-- BHP Delays $68 Billion of Project Approvals as Net Plunges
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-08-22T11:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/bhp-delays-68-billion-of-project-approvals-as-profit-plunges.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, put approvals for about $68 billion of
projects on hold after second-half profit plunged 58 percent as
metal prices declined and costs rose.  Net income  dropped to $5.5 billion in the six months ended
June 30 from $13.1 billion a year ago, according to Bloomberg
calculations that were confirmed by the Melbourne-based company.
That beat the $3.5 billion median estimate of four analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  BHP doesn’t expect to approve any spending on major
projects this fiscal year, including the Olympic Dam expansion,
which would have created the world’s largest uranium mine, the
company said today. It joins  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  in
booking declining profits amid sluggish global growth.  “Given current investor sentiment towards high-capex,
long-dated projects, the move not to approve Olympic Dam and
Outer Harbour will be taken positively,”  Richard Knights , an
analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd., told Bloomberg. “The problem
for BHP management is at some point they will have to weigh up
the market’s desire for short-term returns and their prerogative
as a major mining company to commission long-dated projects.”  BHP, the third-biggest iron ore exporter, fell 1.5 percent
to 1,949.50 pence at 11:32 a.m. in  London . The stock  dropped 0.3
percent  to close at A$33.16 in Sydney. The company will pay a
final dividend of 57 cents a share, up from 55 cents a year ago.  Spending Plans  BHP and Xstrata, which this month cut its spending plan for
the year by $1 billion to $7.2 billion, are among miners reining
in spending as prices fall and investors fret about the
potential profitability of new operations.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the
biggest holder of BHP’s Australia-listed shares, had trimmed its
holdings because of concerns over spending on shale gas assets
and Olympic Dam, it said in March.  “With 20 major projects currently in execution with a
combined budget of $22.8 billion,  BHP Billiton  is largely
committed for the 2013 financial year,” BHP said. “No major
project approvals are expected over this timeframe.”  BHP said in May it won’t meet its five-year $80 billion
spending target on new mines and expansions as it combats higher
costs and lower prices. This month it said it was studying
spending cutbacks across its operations and reviewing its
development pipeline of major projects.  The company’s board had been due to decide this year on
approving Olympic Dam, an  iron-ore  port expansion in Western
 Australia  and a potash project in  Canada . The three projects may
cost a combined $68 billion to build, according to a May 23
estimate from Deutsche Bank AG. The bank estimated Olympic Dam
alone would cost $33 billion.  December Deadline  The expansion plans would have made Olympic Dam, located
560 kilometers (348 miles) north of the state capital Adelaide,
the world’s largest uranium mine within 11 years, increasing
copper output almost fourfold to 750,000 metric tons a year,
boosting gold production eightfold and uranium by almost
fivefold, according to BHP. It already produces uranium, copper
and gold from an existing underground operation.  The company won’t be ready to proceed with an expansion
approval before a Dec. 15 deadline, the company said in a
statement. The decision to pursue a less-costly expansion is
both “prudent and disciplined,” Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers , who waived his annual bonus after announcing this
month the company would book writedowns on shale gas and nickel
assets, said in a statement. BHP reported $3.5 billion in one-
time charges.  Step Back  “It’s pleasing that they’ve stepped back, not necessarily
away from Olympic Dam, but just assessing cheaper alternative
options,”  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1 billion at
Pengana Capital Ltd. in  Melbourne , said in a phone interview.  The company also delayed the planned 2.5 million ton-a-year
expansion of the Peak Downs coal mine in Australia because of
the “challenging external environment.”  “We expect volatility in commodity markets to persist as
temporary weakness in the manufacturing and construction sectors
across all key markets is expected to weigh on  market
sentiment ,” BHP said. “However, in the medium term we expect
supportive economic policy and a broad growth bias, particularly
in  China , to lead to measured improvement in the external
environment beginning in the first half of the 2013 financial
year.”  Growth in China, the world’s biggest metals consumer, has
decelerated to the slowest pace in three years as  Europe ’s debt
crisis crimped exports and the government’s property crackdown
cooled domestic demand. Iron ore prices dropped yesterday to the
lowest level in 32 months as Chinese demand wanes.  “We expect margins in the industry and for BHP to improve
from current levels as commodity prices, especially iron ore and
coking coal, should recover from recent weakness in the near-
term,” Christopher Lafemina and Seth Rosenfeld, analysts at
Jefferies Group Inc. in London, said in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  