-- BHP Jansen Work Continues as Final Decision Delayed
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l ,   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-08-22T21:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/bhp-jansen-work-continues-as-final-decision-delayed.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, is continuing preparatory work at its
Jansen potash project after delaying a final decision on whether
to proceed with the multibillion-dollar Canadian mine.  BHP is developing two underground shafts that would support
production of at least 8 million tons a year in Saskatchewan,
the world’s largest potash-producing region, Chief Executive
Officer  Marius Kloppers  said at an analyst briefing in London
today. BHP is still working on a final design and is securing
titles and permits for the operation, he said. The project may
cost $5 billion to $10 billion, according to a February estimate
from Citigroup Inc.  “We have enough money preapproved to take us through this
financial year” ending June 30, Kloppers said. “We are not in
a position today to approve the full project.”  BHP doesn’t expect to approve any spending on major
projects this fiscal year, the Melbourne-based company said
earlier today. That includes an expansion at Olympic Dam in
 Australia  that would create the world’s largest uranium mine.
BHP today posted a 58 percent decline in second-half profit
after metal prices declined and mining costs rose.  The company is still correct to target potash as a “key
commodity,” Kloppers told reporters.  While it produces commodities including  iron ore  and
copper, the company doesn’t yet mine potash, a form of potassium
used to strengthen roots and help plants resist drought. BHP’s
$40 billion hostile bid for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,
the world’s biggest producer, was blocked in 2010 by the
Canadian government.  ‘Material Issue’  “Food will be a material issue for the world by our
estimation over the next decades and potash is our way to play
into supplying the world with food,” he said.  BHP said in June 2011 that it expected to seek final board
approval for Jansen’s full development by the end of this year.
The mine was expected to start production from 2015. The company
has already committed to spend $1.2 billion on the project, BHP
spokesman  Ruban Yogarajah  said today by e-mail in response to
questions. He declined to comment on how much money BHP has
spent so far.  “We must be absolutely certain that our engineering is
right because it’s a new product,” Kloppers said today. “We
don’t want to have a technical hiccup.”  “You need money, you need people, you need resource and
you need all of your permits,” he said. “We haven’t got all of
the permits in place here to give us complete title and 10-year
security over what will be a very substantial commitment.”  Speeding Permitting  Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall said today he will assign
more workers at provincial departments and agencies to find ways
of speeding up the permitting without undermining his
government’s commitment to protect the environment.  “We are, in fact, deploying more resources where needed to
make sure the relationship is solid and that we’re facilitating
the kind of investment we want to see,” Wall said in a
telephone interview.  Wall said he was “encouraged” by BHP’s decision to
continue developing the project.  BHP shares fell 0.3 percent to A$33.16 at the close in
Sydney.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  