-- Bonsucesso Bets on Credit Cards to Fend Off Itau, BTG
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-08-22T22:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/bonsucesso-bets-on-credit-cardds-to-fend-off-itau-btg.html
Banco Bonsucesso SA, the Brazilian
bank that specializes in paycheck-deductible loans, is expanding
into credit cards as bigger banks seek a greater share of the
payroll-lending market.  Banco Bonsucesso, the nation’s  65th-biggest lender  by
assets, increased its portfolio of payroll-deductible credit
cards by 44 percent to 346 million reais ($171 million) in the
12 months through June, according to the  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-
based lender’s second-quarter  earnings report . That compares
with a 19 percent expansion to 1.89 billion reais for total
loans.  Consolidation in Brazil’s $147.5 billion payroll-lending
market is fueling concern that Bonsucesso’s profit margins will
be squeezed amid rising competition from larger rivals with
cheaper funding costs. Banco BMG SA, one of Brazil’s largest
payroll lenders, formed a partnership with Itau Unibanco Holding
SA last month, and regulators are looking for a buyer for Banco
Cruzeiro do Sul SA after it was seized by the central bank in
June for accounting fraud.  Banco BTG Pactual SA (BBTG11)  agreed to buy a
controlling stake in Banco Panamericano SA in February 2011.  “It’s a reality that the large banks are investing and
getting a piece of this market,” Juliana Pentagna Guimaraes,
head of  investor relations  at Bonsucesso, said in a telephone
interview. “Credit cards are the future of payroll lending to
make money for mid-tier banks.”  Mid-sized banks in Brazil are those with less than 2.2
billion reais in capital.  Retaining Clients  The state consumer agency of  Minas Gerais  suspended lending
by 10 banks, including Bonsucesso, after consumers complained of
firms making it difficult to pre-pay debts and transfer loans
from one bank to another, according to a statement on the
agency’s website yesterday.  Bonsucesso was “unfairly” included in the list and will
take judicial measures have the decision reversed, a press
official, who asked not to be identified in accordance with
internal policy, said in an e-mail.  In payroll lending, known in Portuguese as “consignado,”
banks deduct loan payments directly from employment and pension
checks before consumers see their money. Payroll-deductible
credit cards allow banks to retain clients while reducing the
need to increase long-term funding, said Renato Martins Oliva,
head of the country’s association for small- and mid-size banks.  Higher Spreads  “After the customer gets the card, he can have a direct
relationship with the bank,” Oliva said in a telephone
interview. “While a regular payroll loan requires funding of
about 28 months, payroll-deductible credit cards require 12-
month funding.”  Payroll-deductible credit cards are more profitable than
loans because the bank can charge higher  interest rates , while
taking the same credit risk, Guimaraes said. The bank often
signs contracts with states and municipalities to issue credit
cards to public employees, eliminating fees to intermediaries,
she said.  “With higher average rates, no middleman and controlled
defaults, these credit cards may have a bigger contribution to
the bank’s margins,” said Luis Miguel Santacreu, an analyst at
Sao Paulo-based Austin Rating. “But it’s important to remember
that it’s still not a big part of the bank.”  Funding Woes  Payroll loans have lower default rates than regular lending
because of the consignment allowing banks to tap customers’
paycheck, Oliva said. Payroll-deductible credit cards have
similar default rates, he said.  Bonsucesso’s delinquency rate for loans overdue more than
90 days was 4 percent at the end of the second quarter, up from
3.9 percent in the three previous months and 3.2 percent a year
earlier, according to its earnings statement. The rate for
payroll-deductible credit cards more than doubled to 3.4 percent
from 1.4 percent a year earlier.  Brazil ’s mid-tier banks received another blow in June when
regulators seized payroll lender Cruzeiro do Sul, further
tightening long-term funding. The action came 17 months after
Brazil’s privately owned deposit-insurance fund, known as the
FGC, bailed out Panamericano, with a market value of about 2.8
billion reais, amid a fraud investigation by the central bank.
Regulators liquidated Banco Morada SA in April 2011 after
finding “serious financial violations” at the Rio de Janeiro-
based firm.  ‘Significant’ Challenges  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Bonsucesso’s long-term
global local and foreign currency deposit ratings to B1 from Ba3
in April, while maintaining a negative outlook. The ratings firm
said the lender’s “business model remains under pressure
because of increasing competition within the niche segment of
payroll lending, and challenging funding conditions.”  Banco BMG is the only mid-size Brazilian bank to sell bonds
overseas this year, raising $150 million in March. That compares
with $2.35 billion issued by the industry last year and $4.68
billion in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bonsucesso’s “challenges in terms of profitability,
funding and capital are significant,” Alexandre  Albuquerque , an
analyst at Moody’s in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview.
“We are still waiting to see the results of the bank’s effort
to increase this credit card product on its portfolio.”  The bank’s net income fell 17 percent to 20.4 million reais
in the second quarter from a year earlier, according to its
earnings statement. Its Basel II ratio declined to 15.3 percent
in June from 17.6 percent a year earlier, compared with an 11
percent ratio required by central bank.  Spur Growth  The bank’s biggest need is to increase its portfolio of
loans and spur growth, Austin Rating’s Santacreu said.  “A partner for Bonsucesso is more than welcome and
necessary,” Santacreu said. “The bank would be able to
continue growing if it finds a partner.”  Bonsucesso canceled plans to sell shares in an initial
public offering in July 2008. Guimaraes said the bank hasn’t
seen an opportunity for a merger or partnership, though one
makes sense.  “The shareholders never closed the door,” she said.
“They are willing to hear and that could add value to the
bank.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  