-- Brazilian Stocks Rise as Fed Minutes Spur Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-08-22T21:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/bovespa-index-gains-as-retailers-rise-on-brazil-growth-optimism.html
Brazilian stocks rebounded from
yesterday’s drop as Federal Reserve minutes spurred speculation
that U.S. policy makers may provide additional stimulus, buoying
the prospects for  Latin America ’s biggest economy.  Oil producer Petroleo Brasileiro SA contributed the most to
the benchmark Bovespa index’s gain, following crude higher.
 Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA , the steelmaker that had
losses in three of the past six quarters, gained the most in two
weeks after Deutsche Bank AG said it expects an increase in
flat-steel prices. Wireless carrier Tim Participacoes SA sank
after Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. lowered its recommendation to
the equivalent of hold.  The Bovespa gained 0.8 percent to 59,380.76 at the close of
trading in  Sao Paulo . Forty-seven stocks rose on the measure
while 19 declined. The real weakened 0.1 percent to 2.0177 per
 U.S. dollar  at 5:45 p.m. local time.  “It’s been a while that investors have been waiting for
more stimulus in the U.S., and maybe today’s statement was a
sign that something will be done in the next policy meeting,”
Joao Pedro Brugger, a portfolio manager at Leme Investimentos in
Florianopolis, Brazil, said in a phone interview.  Many Fed policy makers said “additional monetary
accommodation would likely be warranted fairly soon” unless the
economy shows signs of a durable pickup, according to minutes of
their July 31-Aug. 1 meeting released today.  Earlier Drop  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  earlier  dropped  as much as 0.8 percent as
 Greece  sought more time to carry out policy changes, rekindling
concern about Europe’s crisis, and trade data in  Japan  added to
signs that the global recovery may falter.  “Despite the optimism we’ve seen in the equity market
lately, economic data keeps coming in weak all around the
world,” Rogerio Freitas, a partner at Rio de Janeiro-based
hedge fund Teorica Investimentos, said in a phone interview.
“There are no signs the global economy is getting closer to a
recovery.”  Petrobras, as Petroleo Brasileiro is known, gained 1.2
percent to 21.49 reais. Crude jumped to a three-month high in
 New York .  Usiminas, as Usinas Siderurgicas is known, rose 6.1 percent
to 8.64 reais. Tim sank 4.3 percent to 7.88 reais.  Consumer prices in  Brazil , as measured by the IPCA-15  price
index , increased 0.39 percent in the month through mid-August,
the national statistics agency said today, exceeding the 0.37
percent increase that was the median estimate of 45 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Annual inflation quickened to 5.37
percent from 5.24 percent.  Swap Rates  Brazilian swap rates on contracts maturing in January 2014
rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.93
percent. Clothing retailer Cia Hering dropped 0.9 percent to
44.92 reais, leading losses among companies that sell on credit.
Homebuilder Gafisa SA slid 0.7 percent to 4.08 reais.  The Bovespa has climbed 13 percent from this year’s low on
June 5 as eased concern about  Europe ’s crisis and borrowing
costs at a record low in Brazil boosted demand for equities. The
index trades at 11.7 times analysts’ earnings estimates for the
next four quarters, which compares with the ratio of 10.4 times
for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 6.75 billion reais ($3.35 billion) in
stocks in Sao Paulo, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares with a daily average of 7.23 billion reais this year
through Aug. 21, according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  