-- Brazil to Weigh Celpa Requests as Judge Seeks Bid Resolution
-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-08-22T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/brazil-to-weigh-celpa-requests-as-judge-seeks-bid-resolution.html
Brazil’s electricity regulator will
consider next week requests by  Equatorial Energia SA (EQTL3)  regarding a
bid to take over the biggest distributor in the country’s Amazon
region following a judge’s request to accelerate the process.  Equatorial has requested an easing of service targets and
fines during a transitional period as part of its offer to take
over  Centrais Eletricas do Para SA (CELP5) , or Celpa, which is operating
under  bankruptcy protection , Nelson Hubner, director of the
regulator known as Aneel, told reporters yesterday.  Equatorial’s bid needs to be accepted by creditors and
shareholders of Celpa, which distributes electricity to 7.4
million people in northern Brazil. A creditors meeting to
discuss the bid was rescheduled yesterday for the third time
after Judge Maria Filomena De Almeida Buarque said certain
regulatory procedures have not been completed. The judge doesn’t
want to postpone the meeting again and asked Aneel to make a
decision by Aug. 31, Hubner said.  Equatorial, which is  controlled  by private equity fund
Vinci Partners Investimentos Ltda, made an offer in June to take
over Celpa. Equatorial plans to merge Celpa with Sao Luis,
Brazil-based Cia Energetica do Maranhao, known as Cemar, two
people familiar with the deal told Bloomberg in June.  Celpa filed for bankruptcy Feb. 28 after more than four
years without tariff increases contributed to  debt  rising to
about 2.3 billion reais. Creditors include Societe Generale SA,
Banco do Brasil SA, Bank of America Corp., Banco Bradesco SA and
Itau Unibanco Holding SA, according to Celpa regulatory filings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  