-- Brazil Will Import U.S. Ethanol If Fuel Mix Raised, Bunge Says
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-08-23T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/brazil-to-import-u-s-ethanol-if-fuel-blend-raised-bunge-says.html
Brazil , the biggest ethanol producer
after the U.S., will have to import the biofuel if authorities
raise the mandatory level mixed into gasoline this year,
according to commodity processor and trader  Bunge Ltd. (BG)   “Unfortunately, mills just won’t be able to meet demand if
the blend is raised this year,” Pedro Parente, chief executive
officer for Bunge in Brazil, said in an interview yesterday in
Sao Paulo. “We would have to get the ethanol from the U.S.”  Passenger cars in Brazil run on a mix of 20 percent
anhydrous ethanol and 80 percent gasoline. The country is
considering increasing the percentage of ethanol, Energy
Minister Edison Lobao said Aug. 17. That would benefit state-
controlled  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , which has been importing
gasoline to meet rising demand in Latin America’s largest
economy.  Growers in Brazil’s center south, the world’s largest
producing region, will harvest at least 509 million metric tons
of cane in the crop year that started April 1, from 490 million
tons last season, Parente said. Rainfall in May and early June
delayed the harvest and lowered sucrose yields, he said.  Agricultural Frontier  Bunge, based in  White Plains ,  New York , is looking into
expanding its logistics assets in northern Brazil, the new
“agricultural frontier,” Parente said. Brazil is set to become
the world’s largest producer of soybeans, overtaking the U.S.,
where the worst drought in 56 years wilted crops.  “We are paying a whole lot of attention to this,” Parente
said, declining to give the timing or amounts of investments.  Brazil probably will plant a record soybean crop this year
amid record prices for the oilseed, he said. Most of the output
increase will come from improved crop yields, as farmers are
using more fertilizers, and an expansion into cattle pastures,
he said. Soybean prices have jumped 44 percent this year.  Bunge owns 11 terminals in eight ports in Brazil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  