-- Broker Audit Failure, Bank Aid, Rule ‘Output’: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-08-22T12:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/broker-audit-failure-bank-aid-rule-output-compliance.html
U.S. accounting  watchdogs  said a
review of 10 brokerage auditors found they all performed
deficient work, and some failed to take required steps to help
ensure investors’ funds are safeguarded.  Reviews of 23 broker audits conducted by the firms found
most financial statements weren’t reviewed well enough to
justify signing off on them, the  Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board ’s said Aug. 20 in a  report  on its interim
inspection program. The PCAOB didn’t name the auditors and
brokerages in the report and said they were all smaller firms.  The report came a week after New York-based WJB Capital
Group Inc. was expelled from the brokerage industry for
misstating financial records and nine months after the collapse
of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , which left customer funds
unaccounted for when it filed for bankruptcy.  The PCAOB, which is supervised by the Securities and
Exchange Commission, has followed Dodd-Frank Act mandates to
expand brokerage oversight after  Bernard Madoff  was found to
have used a tiny, storefront audit firm while running his
multibillion-dollar  Ponzi scheme .  Last year, the audit watchdog established an interim
inspection program to provide an initial picture of auditing
among the 4,400 registered broker-dealers. The first public
report from the program revealed a host of violations.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Assembly Seeks Views on Libor Scandal Ahead of Public Hearing  European Parliament lawmakers are seeking views on how to
prevent any repeat of the scandal engulfing interbank lending
rates and on whether manipulation of the benchmarks was more
widespread than reported.  The assembly’s economic and monetary affairs committee is
probing what steps should be taken to stamp out “manipulation
and establish integrity” in market indexes such as Libor and
Euribor, the parliament said in a statement  published  on its
website. The committee will hold a hearing on the abuse of
interbank lending rates on Sept. 24.  The parliament is seeking views on “specific measures”
that “should be taken at European/global level to improve
investor confidence,” it said. The consultations will run until
Sept. 17.  U.K. Government Bank Aid During Crisis Was ‘Effective,’ BOE Says  U.K. government measures during the financial crisis to
prop-up failing banks were “effective” and helped restore
lenders’ access to wholesale funding markets, according to a
 Bank of England  research paper.  “Access to wholesale funding markets does indeed respond
positively to intervention,” economists Andrew K. Rose and
Tomasz Wieladek said in the  paper  published in London yesterday.
“The share of non-retail deposits in total liabilities rose by
over 38 percent following intervention, an amount that is
economically and statistically significant. As one objective of
crisis intervention was precisely to stabilise flighty financial
market funding, it seems to have been effective.”  Rose and Wieladek also found that the size of a lender in
relation to the entire banking system increases the probability
of it receiving official aid.  “This finding is consistent with the idea that some banks
in the British banking system were deemed to be ‘too big to
fail,’” they said.  Rules Reduce U.S. Manufacturing by $500 Billion, Industry Says  Regulations on U.S. manufacturing may reduce output by as
much as $500 billion this year, according to an industry-
sponsored study that cast doubts on President  Barack Obama ’s
efforts to trim red tape in the federal government.  The Obama administration has established an average of 72
regulations on manufacturers annually, an increase from the 45
per year imposed under President  George W. Bush , according to
the study, commissioned by the  Manufacturers Alliance for
Productivity and Innovation , based in Arlington, Virginia.  With job creation a central theme in the U.S. presidential
race, the health of manufacturing companies is of importance to
both Obama and his Republican challenger  Mitt Romney . Industry
groups including the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  and  National
Association of Manufacturers  have said federal regulations
hinder economic growth.  During remarks in Windham, New Hampshire on Aug. 18, Obama
said his administration has “created 4.5 million new jobs, half
a million in manufacturing.” Romney is scheduled to visit
LeClaire Manufacturing Co., a maker of aluminum casings, in
Bettendorf, Iowa, today.  Major regulations -- a category of rule where compliance
costs are estimated at more than $100 million -- reduce economic
output by $200 billion to $500 billion in 2010 dollars,
according to the study, which examined data from the White House
Office of Management and Budget during the last three decades.
Exports this year may be 6.5 percent to 17 percent lower, it
said.  For more, click here.  U.K. May Turn Euro Bank Plan to Advantage in Fight for Control  The U.K. may draw on the euro area’s attempts to build a
banking union to bolster its case for an opt-out from European
Union plans to pool oversight and rescue measures for lenders.  The U.K. wants to be excluded from any  bank  failure plans
that involve transferring rescue funds across borders and finds
justification for this stance in euro-area integration efforts,
according to policy-planning documents obtained by  Bloomberg
News . In Europe’s banking union plan, the U.K. also finds
grounds for its opposition to centralized limits on how far
national regulators can toughen capital requirements, the
documents show.  EU leaders including European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi , and  Jose Barroso , the president of the European
Commission, have called for a banking union to break the link
between governments and lenders in the euro area and so ease the
bloc’s debt crisis. The U.K. stance may mean more hurdles in
getting the project up and running. In addition to making a
slate of new proposals, the commission may have to overhaul
draft laws that are already under discussion.  In addition to a single supervisor, centered on the ECB,
the banking union project includes setting up a common deposit
guarantee fund and a central authority for handling failing
lenders. The commission will give more detail on the measures,
including a draft law on supervision, around Sept. 11.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Botswana Stock Exchange to Swap to Automated Trading on Aug. 24  Botswana’s stock exchange said it will start using an
automated trading system on Aug. 24.  The trading of equity, debt and exchange-traded funds will
be automated, Dudu Garekwe, head of trading and listing at the
Gabarone-based Botswana Stock Exchange, said in the statement
yesterday.  Citadel Urges SEC to Accept Nasdaq Settlement on Facebook IPO  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission should approve
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s proposal to pay firms $62 million for
losses suffered in  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s public debut, Citadel LLC
said.  The Chicago-based hedge fund, whose Citadel Securities
executes about 10 percent of U.S. equity volume, told the SEC in
a letter Aug. 21 that its Citadel Execution Services unit traded
more than $3.8 billion of Facebook stock for customers on May
18. Nasdaq OMX, the second-biggest U.S. equity exchange owner,
proposed the compensation pool in July after Facebook’s initial
public offering was marred by technology breakdowns.  The recommendation brings New York-based Nasdaq OMX a step
closer to putting the mishap behind it after the exchange’s
handling of the offering drew criticism from member firms,
competitors and investors. Citadel, run by  Ken Griffin , lost as
much as $35 million in trading related to the offering,
according to a person with knowledge of the firm.  Knight Capital
Group Inc. (KCG)  lost $35.4 million in Facebook trading.  Citadel and Knight operate equity wholesaling groups, or
brokers that executes orders for individual investors sent by
retail securities firms such as  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) ,  TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)  and Fidelity Investments.  For more, click here.  Greek Prosecutor Probes 475 Bankers For Tax Evasion, Thema Says  A Greek financial crimes prosecutor ordered a preliminary
investigation into 475 bank employees who haven’t submitted a
tax declaration for at least three years, Proto Thema newspaper
reported, without citing anyone.  Greece’s economic crimes unit, known as SDOE, will conclude
the investigation by Sept. 10, the Athens-based newspaper said.
The persons in question have annual incomes of as much as
200,000 euros, Proto Thema said.  Courts  Austria’s Highest Court Orders Retrial for Former Hypo Alpe CEO  Wolfgang Kulterer, Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG’s
former chief executive officer, faces a retrial on charges he
misused bank funds, a victory for prosecutors seeking to hold
executives responsible for the bank’s near-collapse in 2009.  Austria’s highest court overturned the acquittal of
Kulterer and two other executives and ordered the lower court to
reconsider whether the managers acted improperly when lending 2
million euros ($2.5 million) to a regional airline which later
went bankrupt, court spokesman Ronald Rohrer said in an  e-mailed
statement . The case must be retried by a new judge at the
Klagenfurt court.  Austria agreed at the end of 2009 to nationalize Hypo Alpe
to avert its collapse after bad debts piled up and majority
owner, Germany’s Bayerische Landesbank, pulled its support.  Kulturer said he was surprised by yesterday’s verdict,
according to the Austrian Press Agency. His lawyer Ferdinand
Lanker didn’t immediately return a call to his office seeking a
comment. Kulterer was convicted in May of misuse of funds in a
separate case, where his appeal is pending.  Interviews  Bowles Says Banking Union Will Be Examined Next Month  Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the European Parliament’s
Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee, talks about European
banking union, Basel III requirements and the Market Abuse
Directive.  She spoke with  Guy Johnson  on Bloomberg Television’s “The
Pulse.”  For the video, click here.  Lamy Says U.S. to Repeal Trade Law With Russia in Days  World Trade Organization Director General Pascal Lamy
discussed Russia’s WTO accession, foreign direct investments and
global trade relations.  He spoke from Geneva with Manus Cranny on Bloomberg
Television’s “Last Word.”  For the video, click here.  Persimmon CEO Says First-Time Buyers Need Targeted Help  Mike Farley, chief executive officer of  Persimmon Plc (PSN) ,
talked about first-half profit, reported yesterday, and the
outlook for the U.K. property market. He discussed U.K.
government assistance programs to lift the housing market and
the need for targeted programs to help first-time buyers.  He spoke from London with  Mark Barton  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Countdown.”  For the video, click here.  Swiss Tax Treaty Has No Chance, German State Minister Tells TA  Switzerland’s tax treaty with Germany has “no chance” as
it currently stands, Rhineland-Palatinate Finance Minister
Carsten Kuehl said in an  interview  with Swiss newspaper Tages-
Anzeiger.  Kuehl, who is a member Germany’s Social Democratic Party,
wants German offshore assets in Switzerland to be taxed a
minimum of 25 percent instead of the currently proposed 21
percent, according to the report.  Notable Passing  Meles, Ethiopian Leader Behind Economic Growth, Dies at 57  Meles Zenawi, the Ethiopian prime minister praised for
overseeing one of Africa’s fastest-growing economies and
criticized by human rights advocates, has died from an infection
after being sick for weeks. He was 57.  Meles had been recuperating at a hospital overseas from an
undisclosed ailment when he died late in the day on Aug. 20,
government spokesman Bereket Simon said in a phone interview
yesterday from the capital, Addis Ababa. Meles led Africa’s
second-most  populous  country for more than two decades.  His economic policies, which mixed a large state role with
private investment, helped the country achieve economic growth
rates of as much as 12.6 percent. The economy expanded an
average of 11 percent annually from 2004 through 2011, according
to International Monetary Fund data.  Infrastructure was one of the biggest beneficiaries of
increased government spending.  Deputy Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn is now serving
as acting prime minister, Bereket said.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 