-- Brookfield Ups Thakral Bid in Quest for Sydney Redevelopment
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-08-22T06:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/brookfield-ups-thakral-bid-in-quest-for-sydney-redevelopment-2-.html
Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A) 
increased its offer for  Thakral Holdings Group (THG) , seeking
ownership of a development site in central Sydney and hotels,
malls, offices and apartments across  Australia ’s east coast.  Brookfield raised its cash bid to 81 Australian cents a
share, from an initial, rejected offer of 70 cents, Thakral and
Brookfield said in a joint statement to the Australian stock
exchange. Thakral  shares  surged 7.3 percent to 80.5 Australian
cents at the close in Sydney, the highest since October 2008.  Brookfield, a Toronto-based asset manager overseeing about
$150 billion of assets, is the parent of Brookfield Multiplex,
which last year sought to buy Thakral’s A$250 million ($261
million) Wynyard Center. The redevelopment, which could be worth
as much as A$1.3 billion according to local media, has drawn
interest from groups including Grocon and Westfield Group.  “Wynyard is the jewel in the crown, a wonderful site in
the best part of Sydney,” Stuart Cartledge, Melbourne-based
managing director of Phoenix Portfolios, said in a telephone
interview. “If Brookfield can buy the whole of Thakral, and
sell the bits they don’t want and be left with what they were
after in the first place, they could end up buying the
development site cheap.”  Thakral shares have soared 49 percent this year, compared
with a 7.9 percent gain in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Sweetened Bid  Brookfield’s sweetened bid -- while a 51 percent premium to
Thakral’s closing  share price  on April 18, a day before
Brookfield’s first approach -- is a 15.6 percent discount to the
value of its assets per security as of Dec. 31, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg from company statements.  Independent advisory firm Grant Samuel & Associates said
the offer -- which values Thakral at A$474 million according to
data compiled by Bloomberg -- while reasonable, is not fair,
according to the statement. Thakral’s directors unanimously
recommended the bid, subject to no better proposals being
received.  Thakral’s independent directors had recommended
shareholders reject Brookfield’s earlier A$410 million offer,
saying it undervalued the company.  The revised bid is conditional on acceptances from
shareholders representing at least 90 percent of Thakral’s
issued securities, according to the statement. Brookfield
extended the offer period until Sept. 11.  Thakral in April received approval for its concept plan for
the Wynyard redevelopment, the company said on April 5.
Melbourne-based Grocon submitted a bid for the site, which
includes the 446-room Menzies Hotel, an office building, a
retail concourse and 335-bay car park, two people familiar with
the matter said in June. Westfield was also considering a bid
and gained access to Thakral’s data room, the Australian
Financial Review reported on July 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  