-- Bundesbank’s Dombret Says ECB Shouldn’t Have Final Oversight Say
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-08-22T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/bundesbank-s-dombret-says-ecb-shouldn-t-have-final-oversight-say.html
Bundesbank board member Andreas Dombret said possible conflicts of interest mean the  European
Central Bank  shouldn’t have the final say at a new supra-
national banking supervisor.  “If the central bank has final responsibility, then its
independence would necessarily be curtailed,” Dombret said in a
speech in  Frankfurt  today, according to a text provided by the
Bundesbank. “Monetary policy decisions can have an influence on
banks’ robustness. That may well lead to conflicts of
interest.”  Euro-area leaders decided in June to create a single bank
supervisor and boost the ECB’s oversight role as a precondition
to allowing the region’s bailout funds to recapitalize banks
directly. The European Commission is due to present its
proposals in September, laying the first building block of a so-
called banking union aimed at limiting financial-market
contagion.  Dombret said that the ECB should instead play “a
comprehensive consultative role” in an independent body whose
representatives would be in line with the size of the member
countries’ banking sectors. The body should oversee all European
banks, he added.  “Supervisory powers imply far-reaching rights of
intervention, and that requires direct democratic
legitimation,” Dombret said.  Under one option favored by the U.K. and European Union
officials, the ECB should have a core set of central powers to
oversee all banks in the 17-nation currency bloc while
delegating some tasks to individual countries, documents
obtained by  Bloomberg News  this month show. The ECB itself
supports a “light touch” to regulation in which it would leave
day-to-day supervision for most banks in the hands of national
authorities, the documents show.  “Whatever solution is realized in the end, I’m convinced
that monetary policy should be separated from supervision as far
as possible,” Dombret said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  