-- Cafritz, Philippa Hughes Parse Barbara Kruger’s Text
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-08-22T14:39:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/cafritz-philippa-hughes-parse-barbara-kruger-s-text.html
Rain fell on the Hirshhorn  Museum 
and Sculpture Garden last night as trustee Jane Cafritz and some
100 other guests attended the opening of a special commission by
artist Barbara Kruger.  It was a good showing for the dog days in  Washington  --
curator Melissa Ho called the timing “a counterintuitive
strategy.”  Kruger’s installation, “Belief+Doubt,” covers about 6,700
square feet of the museum with text-printed vinyl. Guests were
surrounded by giant words on the walls, floors, sides of
escalators.  Art collector  Philippa Hughes  and other guests ate roast
beef sandwiches and sipped champagne in the main-level bookshop,
which will be demolished in the coming days. Hard hats were part
of the decor to say farewell to the store, which has been in its
current location for 27 years.  A new bookstore is now downstairs and part of Kruger’s
installation.  The work reflects a museum initiative to bring art to “new
sites in and around the Hirshhorn,” according to a press
release. In the same vein, Doug Aitken’s film “SONG 1” was
projected on the circular building’s facade earlier this year.  Kruger’s text consists of questions and observations with a
touch of whimsy and humor. One wall reads “Belief + Doubt =
Sanity” in white letters on a bright-red background. Another
wall wants to know “When was the last time you laughed?” in
black and white.  Buy, Forget  Smiley faces pop up. The sides of the escalator say, “You
want it, you buy it, you forget it.”  The vinyl was donated by  3M Co. (MMM) , represented last night by
Gregory M. Walters, from the international trade and government
affairs division.  Richard Koshalek, the Hirshhorn’s director, said he has
worked with Kruger for more than 25 years. He explained that he
wanted her to “curate a public space to establish dialogue with
the city we are in.” The artist herself wasn’t present.  “Belief+Doubt” is perfect for the nation’s capital, where
power is currency, Koshalek said.  Ho said that the work speaks to “the circulation of power,
and the power of language to change reality.”  Liam Cleaver, a program director for  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) , said he got into a minor tiff about the piece
with his wife, museum consultant Ace Everett.  You might say they had words.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining, Katya
Kazakina on  art .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 