-- Canadian Dollar Falls as Retail Sales Unexpectedly Drop
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-08-22T21:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/canadian-dollar-falls-as-retail-sales-unexpectedly-drop.html
Canada ’s dollar weakened for a
second day against its U.S. counterpart after a report showed
retail sales unexpectedly fell in June, adding to concern the
country’s economy is struggling to gain momentum.  The currency pared losses after minutes from the last
meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee  showed U.S. policy
makers remain committed to more monetary stimulus is growth
doesn’t accelerate. The Canadian dollar dropped earlier against
a majority of its most-traded peers, falling along with the
dollars of fellow commodity exporters Australia and New Zealand
as demand for safety drove the greenback and yen higher.  “The big one out there is definitely the FOMC minutes,”
David Doyle, a strategist at Macquarie Capital Markets in
Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “In the very near term,
the next one to two weeks, you’re likely to see a continuation
of this risk-on environment, which means further appreciation of
the Canadian dollar. But have your eye on exiting sooner rather
than later.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, weakened 0.2
percent to 99.14 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It
touched 98.43 cents yesterday, the strongest level since May 3.
One Canadian dollar buys $1.0087.  Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  reiterated that higher
borrowing costs “may become appropriate” if the country’s
domestic demand-driven expansion continues, even amid signs that
a slowing global economy is hampering Canadian growth.  Accelerating Growth  Carney, in the text of a speech today in Toronto at a
Canadian Auto Workers union convention, said growth is expected
to accelerate through next year and the economy’s momentum
remains in line with potential output.  “To the extent that the economic expansion in Canada
continues and the current excess supply in the economy is
gradually absorbed, some modest withdrawal of the present
considerable monetary policy stimulus may become appropriate,”
said Carney, 47, who is scheduled to hold a press conference at
12:00 p.m. Toronto time.  Odds that the Bank of Canada will raise rates by year end
fell to about 13 percent today, from 20 percent yesterday,
according to Bloomberg calculations on overnight index swaps.  The loonie pared declines after the record of the Federal
Open Market Committee’s July 31-Aug. 1 gathering released today
in Washington said “many members judged that additional
monetary accommodation would likely be warranted fairly soon
unless incoming information pointed to a substantial and
sustainable strengthening in the pace of the economic
recovery.”  ‘Higher-Beta Currencies’  U.S. policy makers said after the meeting that they will
step up record stimulus if needed to spur growth and cut a
jobless rate stuck above 8 percent since February 2009. Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  will have an opportunity to clarify his views in
an Aug. 31 speech at a forum for central bankers in  Jackson
Hole ,  Wyoming , where he signaled a second round of bond buying
by the Fed in 2010. Fed officials next meet on Sept. 12-13.  “Higher-beta currencies are all gaining versus the U.S.
dollar on the back of increased easing expectations,” said
Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in  Stamford  Connecticut. “Carney reiterating that the Bank
of Canada could remove stimulus is Canadian-dollar supportive.”  Canadian  government bonds  rose for a fourth day, sending
the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down nine basis points,
or 0.09 percentage point, to 1.84 percent. The price of the 2.75
percent security due in June 2022 rose 83 cents to C$108.14.  Corporate Spreads  Relative yields on Canadian  corporate  bonds are the
tightest since May as a slowing in the more than three-year
refinancing boom by companies drives investors to the safety of
issuers such as banks.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the bonds of
Canadian investment-grade companies rather than the federal
government debt fell to 153 basis points, or 1.53 percentage
points, the narrowest spread since May 9, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. Companies issued C$1.71
billion ($1.72 billion) of debt in August, set to be the
smallest amount of sales in month since February 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The loonie has rallied 2.2 percent this year versus nine
developed-nation peers monitored by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. That’s the third-best performance behind the
 New Zealand dollar , up 4.1 percent, and the 3.1 percent gain by
the Swedish krona. The so-called Aussie advanced 2.1 percent.
The U.S. currency dropped 1.1 percent.  Slower Growth  Retail sales decreased 0.4 percent to C$38.7 billion,
 Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa. The result was weaker
than any forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists,
which had a median projection of a 0.1 percent gain.  Other Canadian reports this month have shown declines in
employment, wholesale sales and building permits along with
slowing consumer-price increases.  “The data is likely to sustain some of the bid that we saw
overnight in dollar-Canada,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director
of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada (NA) , in a telephone
interview from Toronto. “On an intraday basis, it will likely
cause the Canadian dollar to be an underperformer relative to
some of its peers.”  Japan’s trade deficit was 517.4 billion yen last month,
following a revised 60.3 billion yen surplus in June, the
 Finance Ministry  said in  Tokyo . The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists was for a shortfall of 270
billion yen. Exports fell 8.1 percent from a year earlier,
compared with an estimated 2.9 percent decline.  “The overall trend is clearly negative,”  Lutz Karpowitz ,
a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Commerzbank AG, said by
phone from  Frankfurt . “I can understand any investor who takes
profits now in commodity currencies. Maybe we have to see some
kind of correction before the next leg up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  