-- Carillion Sees Infrastructure Projects Moving Ahead After Slump
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-08-22T08:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/carillion-sees-infrastructure-projects-moving-ahead-after-slump.html
  Carillion Plc (CLLN) , builder of the 255
million-pound ($400 million) London Olympics media center, said
infrastructure project decisions due by year-end will help
offset a first-half slowdown that led to a decline in sales.  Revenue fell 12 percent to 2.16 billion pounds ($3.4
billion), the Wolverhampton, England-based company said in a
statement. Underlying pretax profit increased 1 percent to 73.1
million pounds excluding goodwill amortization, missing the
average 75.86 million pounds estimated by five analysts.  A slow-down in construction projects in  Europe  has driven
Carillion to scale back operations in its home market and pursue
business overseas. Spending in some of those markets has been
slow in the first six month as well, though.  “There has been some indecision in the first half from
customers and we expect those decisions to be made in the second
half,” Richard Howson said today in an interview. The company
has 92 percent of full-year revenue plans secured or in the
pipeline, he said, with many bids in play in the U.K.,  Middle
East  and  Canada .  The company sees 35.6 billion pounds in contract
opportunities in its three core markets. That figure is 2.5
billion pounds higher than six months ago.  Howson also expects Middle East activity to pick up now
that the Ramadan holiday has ended. Carillion has already booked
a yet-to-be-announced contract in the region valued at more than
100 million pounds, he said.  Howson, six months into his tenure as chief executive, has
reorganized the business, including cutting the number of units
to six from eight and shifting the focus to operational
performance. Further changes may be made, he said, but none are
immediately planned.  Bigger Footprint  The company’s global footprint may also expand. “We have
got confidence to expand in time,” he said. New locations are
being looked at, he said, without identifying them.  Carillion also is waiting for the outcome of a U.K.
government review of its policy on private finance initiatives.
The outcome is due by year-end. “It is time the privately
financed initiative was changed,” Howson said. “We advocate
the Canadian model where procurement times are reduced and the
leadership of the procurement of public sector contracts is more
centralized.”  Carillion shares were little changed at 268.90 pence at
8:45 a.m. in London trading. The company share price is down 11
percent year-to-date, valuing Carillion at 1.16 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  