-- Carney Says Canada May Need Higher Interest Rates
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-08-22T18:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/carney-says-canada-may-need-higher-interest-rates.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
reiterated that higher borrowing costs “may become
appropriate” if the country’s domestic-demand driven expansion
continues, even amid signs of slowing growth this quarter.  Economic growth is expected to accelerate through next year
and its momentum remains in line with potential output, Carney
said in a speech today at a Canadian Auto Workers union
convention in Toronto. The expansion this quarter may be curbed
by “short-term special factors” such as maintenance shutdowns
of energy projects, Carney said.  “To the extent that the economic expansion in Canada
continues and the current excess supply in the economy is
gradually absorbed, some modest withdrawal of the present
considerable monetary-policy stimulus may become appropriate,”
Carney, 47, said in the speech.  The Bank of Canada has kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 1 percent since September 2010, the longest pause
since the 1950s. Carney said his monetary policy must balance
encouraging a recovery hampered by slack in labor markets with
the risks posed by having the lowest policy  interest rate  of any
major economy not directly affected by the global crisis.  “Carney stuck to his guns despite the softening Canadian
economy,” said  Krishen Rangasamy , senior economist at National
Bank Financial in  Montreal . “The tightening bias remains.”  Retail Sales  Earlier today,  Statistics Canada  reported that  retail sales 
unexpectedly fell 0.4 percent in June, a result weaker than any
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists, which had
a median projection for a 0.1 percent gain. Other reports this
month have shown declines in  employment , wholesale sales and
building permits along with slowing consumer-price increases.  Asked why he’s keeping the inclination to raise rates after
recent signs of economic weakness, Carney cited the “relatively
modest” amount of spare capacity in the economy, adding that
“rates are lower here than they are in any other non-crisis
economy.”  Canada’s dollar weakened 0.4 percent to 99.28 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 1:51 p.m. in Toronto. It touched 98.47 cents
yesterday, the strongest level since May 3. One Canadian dollar
buys $1.0073. Bonds rose, with the yield on the benchmark two-
year government bond falling 5 basis points to 1.13 percent.  While cheap borrowing costs have supported growth in
domestic demand, they have also fueled  household debt  and
housing purchases that have led to “increasing signs of
overbuilding and overvaluation” in some segments, Carney said
in his speech.  Growth Limits  “As effective as it has been, the limits of this growth
model are becoming clear,” Carney said in the speech. “We
cannot grow indefinitely by relying on Canadian households
increasing their borrowing relative to income.”  Carney said the  Bank of Canada  will back moves by the
government and regulators to reduce risks in the housing market
if needed.  “Under flexible inflation targeting, the Bank of Canada is
prepared to support regulatory efforts, if necessary,” he said.  Carney said that while exports are poised to improve, they
will remain below pre-recession levels until the start of 2014.  To improve  exports , Canada needs to sell more to faster-
growing  emerging markets  and further improve worker skills, he
said. The country’s reliance on shipping to advanced economies
such as the U.S. explains two-thirds of its falling share of
global exports over the past decade, he said, while the strength
of the Canadian dollar explains about 20 percent.  U.S. Over-reliance  “Our underperformance prior to the crisis was more a
reflection of who we traded with than how effectively we did
it,” he said.  Canada  may have been “over-reliant on the  United
States ” in the past, he said.  Carney was asked several times today by the audience and in
the press conference about the role of the currency in
restraining exports.  “The dollar is not the sole answer to our challenges” on
trade, Carney said in response to one question.  Carney also said that some companies that are holding
excess cash instead of investing to become more competitive
should consider returning the money to shareholders.  “The level of caution could be viewed as excessive,”
Carney said. “Their job is to put money to work, and if they
can’t think of what to do with it they should give it back to
their shareholders.”  Carney, who also chairs the Financial Stability Board group
that’s writing new rules for global finance, also called for the
quick and full implementation of capital rules and cited the
resilience of Canada’s financial system as an example of the
benefits of stronger regulation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Toronto at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  