-- Chavez ‘Baptizes’ Bolivar Bond With Oil to Pay State Workers
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-08-22T21:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/chavez-baptizes-bolivar-bond-with-crude-to-pay-state-workers.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
presented a bolivar-denominated bond created to pay overdue debt
to state workers on television today, “baptizing” one of the
papers with crude oil.  The so-called Petro Orinoco bonds, which carry an 18
percent  interest rate , are being issued to retirees from the
public sector as Chavez prepares to contest elections in
October.  “The opposition says that these are worthless, that this
is a ploy, but they have a monetary value that pays 18 percent
annually,” Chavez said from an oil field in Monagas state. “We
need to speed up the pace to pay overdue debts and invent other
mechanisms.”  This year, Chavez, 58, drafted a new labor law, created
social programs to pay the elderly and children in extreme
poverty and vowed to resolve a housing deficit of 3 million
units in the next six years. The former paratrooper says that
he’s overcome a battle with cancer to contend the Oct. 7
election that he will win by “knockout,” enabling him to
continue installing socialism in  South America ’s largest oil
producing country.  Chavez danced and sang songs with retired university
professors during today’s nationwide broadcast before pouring a
beaker of crude oil over one of the paper bonds. The government
handed out the equivalent of 886 million bolivars ($206.3
million) worth of bonds today, he said.  Workers Fund  Holders of the bonds must wait one year before they can
sell the notes through the state-run securities exchange or hold
them to maturity, Chavez said. Retirees can also cash them in at
state-run  Banco de Venezuela , he said later. The interest rate
trails annual inflation, which was 19.4 percent in July. Chavez
didn’t say when the local bonds will mature.  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , the state  oil company , created a
worker’s fund to pay the overdue debts. The fund is financed
from a 4 percent stake that PDVSA Social, a unit of the Caracas-
based oil company, took in 15 joint ventures, Chavez said. PDVSA
Social also sends a 3.33 percent extraction tax to the fund
instead of paying it to the National Treasury.  The worker’s fund will have about 4 billion bolivars by
year-end, according to  Rafael Ramirez , president of PDVSA.
Chavez said that his government is still calculating the total
amount of Petro Orinoco bonds to be issued.  “This is a good solution and a win-win situation for
everyone using oil,” Chavez said. “The fund will continue to
grow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 