-- Chelsea Goes Atop Premier League With Comeback Win Over Reading
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-22T23:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/chelsea-rallies-to-beat-reading-4-2-in-premier-league-soccer.html
Chelsea scored three second-half
goals to beat Reading 4-2 and move atop English soccer’s Premier
League for the first time since November 2010.  Goals from  Gary Cahill ,  Fernando Torres  and Branislav Ivanovic at  Stamford  Bridge last night extended Chelsea’s
winning streak in its opening home league match to 10 seasons.
Pavel Pogrebnyak and Danny Guthrie had given Reading a 2-1
halftime lead after  Frank Lampard ’s 18th-minute penalty kick.  The Blues opened the new league campaign with a 2-0 win at
Wigan four days ago and last night’s victory lifted them atop
the 20-team standings. The match was moved from its scheduled
date of Sept. 2 because European champion Chelsea is playing in
the Aug. 31 UEFA Super Cup.  “We are very pleased with six points after two games,”
Chelsea manager Roberto Di Matteo said in comments on his team’s
website. “We lost our flow after Reading scored their equalizer
and second goal but, apart from that, it was very good. We
finished very strongly.”  Reading, which won promotion after finishing top of the
second-tier Championship last season, led until the 69th minute,
having gone ahead through Pogrebnyak’s 25th-minute header and a
free kick from Guthrie four minutes later that Chelsea
goalkeeper  Petr Cech  allowed to slip past him.  The home team made it 2-2 on another goalkeeping error when
Adam Federici failed to keep out Cahill’s 30-yard (27 meter)
shot even after getting both hands behind the ball.  Late Goals  Torres side-footed  Ashley Cole ’s pass into the net to put
Chelsea ahead in the 81st minute, although television replays
suggested the Spanish striker was offside.  Ivanovic closed the scoring on a breakout with Federici
stranded after going up the other end for a corner kick as
Reading sought a tying goal in stoppage time.  “We didn’t deserve to lose,” Reading manager Brian
McDermott told reporters. “The linesman will be disappointed
with the third goal. From where I was I knew he was offside and
when you see it back it was clear. He’s had a poor night and
because of that we’ve had a disappointing result.”  Chelsea is now unbeaten in 34 home league games against
newly promoted clubs since a 1-0 loss to Charlton Athletic in
April 2001. It last failed to win its first match of the season
at Stamford Bridge in 2002, when it drew 2-2 with  Manchester
United. (MANU)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  