-- Chesapeake Favored CEO Over Leaseholders, Suit Claims
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-08-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/chesapeake-favored-ceo-mcclendon-over-leaseholders-suit-claims.html
     Aug. 23 (Bloomberg) -  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  let Aubrey McClendon, its chief executive officer, profit from lucrative
Texas oil and gas wells while denying the same chance to
leaseholders on the properties, according to a lawsuit.  Chesapeake lost one-fifth of its market value this year as
the impact of tumbling gas prices was compounded by disclosure
that McClendon borrowed more than $800 million last year to
finance his stakes in thousands of company-owned oil and gas
wells. McClendon was stripped of his chairman’s role in June and
is under investigation by the board for his borrowings.  According to a complaint filed yesterday in federal court
in Houston, McClendon was allowed to purchase a 1 percent to 2
percent interest in wells drilled by Chesapeake, using his stake
in the wells as collateral. The company was contractually
obligated to offer the leaseholders a similar chance to profit
in wells it developed across a 10,900-acre swath described as
the “sweet spot” of the  Barnett Shale , an oil and gas
formation under  Fort Worth , Texas, according to the plaintiffs,
two Houston energy companies.  Chesapeake has about 115 producing wells and plans 100 more
wells on the tract, according to the filing.  ‘Preferential Treatment’  The company should have to disgorge all profits “related
to the self-dealing and/or preferential treatment provided
Aubrey McClendon, who received value for his working interests
of Barnett Shale production wells to the exclusion of
plaintiffs,” said the plaintiffs, MDU Barnett LP and Oil & Gas
Working Interests LP.  Jim Gipson, Chesapeake’s spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond yesterday to voice and e-mail messages seeking comment
on the suit. Walter Umphrey, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, didn’t
immediately return a call to his office in Beaumont,  Texas .  The leaseholders also accuse Chesapeake of consistently
underpaying proceeds due under their leases. They claim it has
refused to correct accounting errors that “typically” favor
the company, some of which the leaseholders said they brought to
Chesapeake’s attention in October.  The leaseholders are seeking the outstanding proceeds due
them, a full accounting and disgorgement of profits related to
McClendon’s “preferential treatment,” according to the
complaint. They also seek unspecified punitive damages.  The case is MDU Barnett LP v Chesapeake, 12-cv-2528, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  