-- China Telecom Profit Beats Estimates as IPhone Lures Users
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-22T11:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/china-telecom-net-falls-10-on-iphone-costs-beating-estimates.html
China Telecom Corp. (728) , the country’s
biggest fixed-line carrier, posted second-quarter profit that
beat analysts’ estimates as the introduction of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone lured new users to its wireless unit. The stock climbed.  Net income  fell 10 percent to 4.55 billion  yuan  ($716
million), from a restated 5.05 billion yuan a year earlier, the
Beijing-based company said in a  statement  today. That exceeded
the 4.4 billion yuan median of seven analysts’ estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  China Telecom began offering subsidized iPhone sales on
March 9, giving it a new weapon in its battle for smartphone
subscribers with larger rival  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  and boosting
usage. China Telecom expects the Apple Inc. device will enhance
its long-term growth with “short-term pressure” on profit
margins as it accounts for subsidies on the device up front,
instead of spreading them over the life of a service contract.  “It looks like the negative impact of iPhone subsidies was
not as strong as people expected in the quarter, and average
revenue per user was higher than we expected,” said Marvin Lo,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at  Mizuho Securities . “The rising
iPhone and smartphone penetration helped increase” average
revenue per user, he said.  China Telecom  shares  in  Hong Kong  closed up 4.5 percent at
HK$4.17, the biggest gain since July 25, reversing an earlier 4
percent decline prior to the announcement.  Sales Gain  Second-quarter  sales  rose 14 percent to 70.1 billion yuan,
beating the 68.3 billion-yuan median of seven analysts in the
Bloomberg survey.  Handset subsidies jumped 50 percent to 11.5 billion in the
first six months of this year. The company is investing in
subsidies for phones as it works to add 35 million wireless
users this year, Chairman Wang Xiaochu told a press conference
in Hong Kong today.  “The effect of the iPhone began to show in the second
quarter, leading to the increase in mobile subsidies,” Wang
told reporters.“In the second half, mobile subsidies will be
more or less the same as the first half.”  The mobile unit added 8.35 million users during the period,
boosting China Telecom’s subscriber base to 144.2 million at the
end of June, the company announced last month. It ranks third in
wireless users in the Asian nation, behind China Mobile and
 China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762)  China Telecom had 51 million 3G
users.  Network Purchase  The company entered the wireless market in 2008 when its
parent acquired the smaller of China Unicom’s two mobile
divisions in a government-led revamp of the country’s mobile-
phone industry. China Telecom currently leases the third-
generation network from its state-owned parent and in March 2011
announced plans to buy that network from the parent this year in
order to save money on leasing fees.  The company said today it will buy the network for 84.6
billion yuan, which was lower than expected according to
analysts including Mizuho’s Lo and Alen Lin at BNP Paribas
Securities  Asia  in Hong Kong.  “We view this positively as we had earlier estimated fair
value of 100 billion yuan,” Lin said. “The market chatter in
the last couple of weeks was 120 billion yuan.”  China Mobile on Aug. 16 posted a drop in second-quarter  net
income  to 34.40 billion yuan, from 34.42 billion yuan a year
earlier. That missed the projection of 35.6 billion yuan, the
median of nine analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.
The company said costs to subsidize handsets will be 26 billion
yuan this year, 30 percent higher than it previously projected.  China Unicom reports results for the period tomorrow.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  