-- China Prepares New Plan to Fight Graft That Threatens Its Image
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-22T04:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/china-prepares-new-plan-to-fight-graft-that-threatens-its-image.html
China will impose a new five-year
plan to tackle corruption, as the Communist Party seeks to crack
down on an issue that risks tarnishing its legitimacy ahead of a
leadership transition later this year.  “The work of constructing a system of punishing and
preventing corruption has shown to be effective,” He Guoqiang,
head of the party’s Central Commission for Discipline
Inspection, said yesterday, according to the People’s Daily
newspaper.  The plan is part of broader efforts to burnish the party’s
image before the once-a-decade leadership transition. China’s
leaders are seeking to recover from a series of scandals
including the downfall of former Chongqing Party Secretary  Bo
Xilai , and Premier  Wen Jiabao  warned in March that corruption
could endanger the government’s survival.  “In the past ten years, the more they fight corruption,
the more plans and agencies they set up, the worse the
corruption gets,” said  Zheng Yongnian , director of the East
Asian Institute at the  National University  of Singapore. “A
truly clean government comes from the rule of law.”  He, a member of the powerful Politburo standing committee,
announced the anti-corruption campaign at a meeting where
officials reviewed the previous five-year plan, according to the
People’s Daily report.  Ant-Graft Measures  The government has announced several anti-graft measures
this year, including a ban on spending public money on  luxury
goods  and lavish receptions.  Railway Minister  Liu Zhijun  was ousted in 2011 and later
stripped of his Communist Party membership over allegations of
bribe-taking. Xie Pengfei, the deputy secretary general of
 Guangdong province , was removed for violations of party
discipline, the Xinhua News Agency reported Aug. 20, citing the
province’s anti-graft watchdog.  In March, Wen called for an end to using public funds to
purchase cigarettes and “high-end” alcohol, as a widening
wealth gap has fueled public outrage over official malfeasance.
The state-run CNTV website reported in July China will ban
officials from consuming shark fin at government expense within
three years.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  