-- China Pollution Tax Plan Submitted to Cabinet, Daily Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-22T04:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/china-pollution-tax-plan-submitted-to-cabinet-daily-reports.html
China’s tax department has proposed
a pollution levy to the cabinet, a move that may increase raw-
material prices, the Economic Information Daily  reported , citing
an unidentified government official.  The plan covers discharge of sulfur dioxide and waste water
and excludes  carbon emissions , the newspaper, an affiliate of
the official Xinhua News Agency, said today, without specifying
the rates. The proposal is aimed at a “smooth transition” from
a discharge fee that’s currently used, according to the report.  Increasing concerns about pollution have led to
confrontations between local governments and residents,
including a protest last month in the southwestern city of
Shifang over the construction of a molybdenum copper plant. The
government is stepping up measures against industrial accidents
after  ConocoPhillips (COP) , part-owner of China’s biggest offshore
oilfield, last year caused the country’s worst spill since
 PetroChina Co. (857)  leaked oil in Dalian in 2010.  Questions faxed to the State Administration of Taxation by
Bloomberg News didn’t get an immediate response.  The pollution tax may add pressure on coal-fired power
utilities, building-material companies and steel and metal
producers to increase prices to help cover higher costs, the
newspaper reported, citing Wang Jinnan, vice president at the
Chinese Academy for Environmental Planning.  Zijin Mining Group Co. (2899) , China’s biggest gold miner by
market value, declined 0.4 percent to HK$2.59 as of 10:27 a.m.
in  Hong Kong . PetroChina, the nation’s biggest energy producer,
fell 2 percent to HK$9.66.  An acid leak at Zijin Mining’s copper and gold mine in July
2010 poisoned enough fish in the Ting River to feed 72,000
people for a year. Dalian’s beaches and port were closed by an
 oil spill  by PetroChina at the nation’s largest crude terminal.  China may invest 346 billion yuan ($54 billion) in the five
years through 2015 to prevent pollution of “key” water
sources, China Securities Journal reported May 18, citing a
joint statement from the environmental protection, finance and
water ministries and the National Development and Reform
Commission.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  