-- China Adds to Visa Demands in Move That Could Slow Tourists
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-22T09:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/china-asks-tourists-for-invites-hotel-reservations-to-get-visas.html
China  has tightened visa rules for
visitors, adding requirements for a letter of invitation and
proof of hotel reservations in a move that could slow its push
to become the world’s biggest tourism destination.  Travelers applying for tourist visas, must submit a letter
from an “authorized tourism unit,” company or person inviting
them to China, along with a photocopy of their round-trip ticket
and hotel reservation, according to rules posted on the  website 
of China’s embassy in the U.S.  The rule changes come after Chinese authorities have put
foreigners’ status in the country under greater scrutiny and
sought to clamp down on people entering the country illegally.
The World Tourism Organization  has predicted  that China may
become the world’s biggest destination for tourists by 2015.  “If implemented strictly, the new requirements could have
an impact on the number of foreign tourists” and revenue among
travel agencies, said Zhang Lu, a Shanghai-based analyst at
 Capital Securities Corp. (6005)   China International Travel Service
Corp. (601888) , the country’s biggest tourism company by market value,
will “certainly be affected,” she said.  The new visa materials were not demanded before Aug. 1,
according to  visa.ywpw.com , a Texas-based agency that helps
customers obtain visas to China. China’s embassies and
consulates in countries including Japan, Thailand and  New
Zealand  also posted the new rules on their websites.  Tourism Destination  China overtook  Spain  in 2010 to become the world’s third-
biggest tourist draw, with 55.7 million visitors that year,
behind only  France  and the U.S., according to  data from the
World Bank . That’s more than double number of tourist arrivals
in 1999, when China saw 27 million visitors.  The Foreign Ministry didn’t respond to faxed questions
seeking comment today.  In mid-May, Beijing began a 100-day campaign aimed at
cracking down on foreigners working or living in the country
without proper documentation.  The National People’s Congress, the country’s legislature,
approved a new law June 30 that increased the penalty for
illegally entering or working in the country. In a blog post in
May, a top host for China’s state-owned national television
station, Yang Rui, said Chinese police should focus on Sanlitun
and another Beijing neighborhood, Wudaokou, to “arrest foreign
thugs and protect innocent girls.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Raymond Liu in Beijing at 
 rliu118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  