-- China’s Stocks Decline on Property Tax Concern
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-08-22T07:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/china-s-stock-index-futures-swing-between-gains-and-losses.html
Chinese stocks fell, dragging down
the benchmark index by the most in a week, on speculation the
government will expand a property tax and after a Japanese
report showed shipments to  China  declined last month.  China Vanke Co. led real-estate companies to the biggest
decline among the  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  Index’s industry groups
after the Legal Evening News reported Hubei province is
proposing property-tax rules. China Shipping Development Co.,
part of the nation’s second largest sea-cargo group, fell 2.2
percent after posting its first half-year loss since at least
1998. Anhui Quanchai Engine Co. slumped 3.4 percent after a unit
of China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd.
cancelled a bid for Anhui Quanchai’s parent.  “Property taxes and industry curbs are affecting the
market,” said Zhang Yanbin, an analyst with Zheshang Securities
Co. in  Shanghai . “I would expect more bad earnings to come out
in the next few days, pushing the market lower.”  The Shanghai Composite retreated 0.5 percent to 2,107.71 at
the close, while the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  decreased 0.8 percent to
2,295.59. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese
companies traded in Hong Kong slid 1.4 percent. The  Bloomberg
China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed
Chinese companies, lost 1.3 percent in  New York .  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 14 percent from this
year’s high on March 2 amid concern the economic slowdown is
worsening. A Japanese government report today showed a wider-
than-estimated trade deficit in July after shipments to China
slid 12 percent. China’s imports rose 4.7 percent in July,
compared with the estimate for a 7 percent gain and a 6.3
percent increase in June, the customs bureau said Aug. 10.  Property Stocks  “It’s unavoidable that  Japan ’s economic growth will lose
steam this quarter,” said Kohei Okazaki, an economist at Nomura
Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “Global demand is looking stagnant as
 China’s economy  is slowing while the advanced nations’ economies
remain weak.”  A gauge of property stocks in the Shanghai Composite slid
1.7 percent, the most among five industry groups. China Vanke,
the biggest developer, dropped 2.2 percent to 8.14  yuan . Poly
Real Estate Group Co., the second-largest, lost 3.5 percent to
9.49 yuan. Gemdale Corp. declined 2.7 percent to 5.03 yuan.  The central province of Hubei is proposing detailed
property tax rules, the Legal Evening News reported yesterday,
citing Xu Zhengyun, a spokesman for the provincial taxation
bureau. The tax will be based on market value instead of the
purchase price of the properties, the newspaper said, citing an
unidentified person.  Hubei Denial  Hubei denied “rumors on the Internet” that it is
proposing detailed property tax rules, according to a statement
posted on the province’s local taxation bureau website today.  The nation’s two-year effort to curb a  real-estate  bubble
included imposing a property tax for the first time in Shanghai
and Chongqing, raising down-payment and mortgage requirements,
increasing building of low-cost social housing and placing home
purchase restrictions in about 40 cities.  China’s prices of new homes rose in the largest number of
cities in 14 months in July. Prices climbed from a month earlier
in 49 of the 70 cities tracked by the government, the National
Bureau of Statistics said last weekend. That was the most since
May last year and compared with 25 cities in June.  Rising property prices are constraining aggressive policy
action from the central bank, Zhang Zhiwei, China economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc., said Aug. 20. Policy makers cut  interest
rates  in June and July after two reductions in reserve-
requirement ratios for lenders this year as the economy expanded
at the slowest pace since 2009.  China’s benchmark index rebounded by the most in a week
yesterday on speculation more cities will roll out stimulus
plans to avert a deeper slowdown.  Stimulus Outlook  The southern province of Guangdong drafted a plan for more
than 1 trillion yuan ($157 billion) of investment in marine
industries, the China Business News reported today, without
saying where it got the information. This comes after Xinhua
News Agency reported Chongqing municipality plans to boost
industrial investment to 1.5 trillion yuan in the five years
through 2015. The investment will help Chongqing expand its
total industrial output beyond 3 trillion yuan, Xinhua said.  “Provincial and municipal governments are announcing
multi-trillion yuan investment programs one after another. But
we ask how these programs can be financed?,” Hao Hong, managing
director for research at Bocom International Holdings Co., wrote
in a note today. “If the government borrows, be mindful of the
crowding out effect, both on rising market interest rates and on
declining incentives for private investment.”  Earnings Drop  Dongfang Electric Corp., China’s second-biggest maker of
power equipment, lost 1.6 percent to 15.77 yuan. The company’s
first-half net income fell 19 percent from a year earlier to
1.24 billion yuan from a year earlier, according to a statement
to the  Hong Kong  stock exchange yesterday.  China Shipping Development retreated 2.2 percent to 4.51
yuan. The first-half loss of 495 million yuan compared with a
net income of 684 million yuan a year earlier, the company said
in a stock exchange filing yesterday.  Anhui Quanchai Engine fell 3.4 percent after Rongsheng
Heavy said its unit cancelled a bid for Quanchai Engine’s
parent. Rongsheng Heavy, the country’s largest shipbuilder
outside state control, reported yesterday an 82 percent drop in
first-half profit on weaker demand for new vessels.  Thirty-day volatility on the Shanghai Composite was at 12.1
yesterday, compared with this year’s average of 18.6. About 6.1
billion shares changed hands in the gauge, 24 percent lower than
the average volume this year.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., dropped 0.5 percent to 34.29,
extending its retreat to a fifth day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  