-- China May Spend $373 Billion for Energy Savings, Emissions Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-22T04:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/china-may-spend-373-billion-for-energy-savings-emissions-curbs.html
China , the world’s biggest generator
of  greenhouse gases , estimated it may spend 2.37 trillion  yuan 
($373 billion) on projects for conserving energy and reducing
emissions in the five years through 2015, spurring a surge in
shares of environmental protection companies.  The nation plans by 2015 to reduce the amount of energy it
uses to produce every unit of gross domestic product by 16
percent from 2010 levels, the State Council said in  a statement 
late yesterday. In the five years through 2015, the world’s
second-biggest economy is aiming for energy savings equal to 670
million tons of standard coal equivalent energy, it said.  China has sought to increase  energy efficiency  and improve
environmental conditions as the three decades of expansion that
boosted the size of its economy more than 90-fold also fueled
public outrage over a surge in pollution. Economists including
those at the  International Monetary Fund  have also recommended
spending on environmental protection as a way to support growth
as the  European debt crisis  saps demand for China’s exports.  “The environmental protection industry is one of the few
areas that have good growth potential in China as the government
is increasing investment,” said Wei Wei, an analyst at West
China Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Stocks in the sector will do
well in a scenario where most industries are slowing down.”  The estimated spending in the period during the so-called
12th five-year plan will be for key energy-saving, emission
reduction and recycling projects, the State Council said.  Shares Rise  Hebei Sailhero Environmental Protection High-tech Co.
jumped by the  10 percent  daily limit to the highest in a month
at the 11:30 a.m. trading break in Shenzhen. Dalian East New
Energy Development Co. gained as much as  9.2 percent  and Hunan
Yonker Environmental Protection Co. rose as much as  5.9 percent .  China’s government has previously said it aimed to cut the
amount of carbon it emits per unit of economic output by 40
percent to 45 percent by 2020 from 2005 levels. The nation will
gradually establish a mechanism to control total energy
consumption, Liu Tienan, vice chairman of the National
Development and Reform Commission, wrote last month in Qiushi
Magazine.  The targets have spurred demand to develop renewable
energy. China’s clean energy generation rose 31 percent to 106.8
billion kilowatt-hours in July from a year earlier, according to
an Aug. 21 statement posted to the State Electricity Regulatory
Commission.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  