-- Chrysler 300 Tops GM-Ford Sedans in Consumer Reports Test
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-08-22T16:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/chrysler-300-tops-gm-ford-large-sedans-consumer-reports-says.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
automaker majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , boosted its rating in
Consumer Reports’ testing of large sedans as its 300 topped
offerings by General Motors Co. and  Ford (F)  Motor Co.  The Chrysler 300 scored an 83, behind only  Hyundai Motor
Co. (005380) ’s Genesis at 92, the Yonkers, New York-based magazine and
product-testing group said today in an e-mailed statement. The
cars were tested for their handling, efficiency, comfort and
ease of use.  The 300 was one of the new or refreshed models that Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  introduced after  Auburn
Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler emerged from a U.S.-backed
bankruptcy under Fiat’s control in 2009. The 300 follows
improved results in Consumer Reports testing for Chrysler models
including the 200 sedan and Jeep Grand Cherokee and Dodge
Durango sport-utility vehicles.  “The 2011 redesign of the 300 put Chrysler’s flagship back
on the map in the large-sedan category,”  David Champion , senior
director of the Consumer Reports Automotive Test Center, said in
the statement. The magazine issued its statement before  Nissan
Motor Co. (7201)  said today it hired Champion as executive adviser of
competitive assessment and quality.  This year’s findings were the first to include testing of
the 300 with a six-cylinder engine and eight-speed automatic
transmission, which improved the model’s showing in fuel-economy
tests, the magazine said. The 300 achieved 22 miles (35
kilometers) per gallon, according to the statement.  At the researcher’s track, “the 300 was steady and secure,
posting a modest speed through CR’s avoidance maneuver with no
surprises,” according to the e-mail.  Not ‘Recommended’  U.S. sales of the 300 more than doubled to 44,200 this year
through July as the company added 1.2 percentage points of
market share. While falling short of analysts’ estimates last
month, Chrysler Group has reported year-on-year gains for 28
consecutive months.  The 300 didn’t receive the publication’s “Recommended”
status because Consumer Reports doesn’t have enough survey data
related to consumer reliability, according to the statement.
Carmakers seek favorable evaluations from the magazine as its
reviews are considered the most objective because of policies of
accepting no advertising and buying every vehicle it tests.  Among other new models in the segment featured in Consumer
Reports’ October issue, Hyundai’s Azera recorded a score of 81,
followed by 78 for  GM (GM) ’s Buick LaCrosse and 64 for Ford’s Taurus.  The Azera, which started selling early this year, has
improved handling while still trailing competitors because of
its “stiff, unrefined ride,” Consumer Reports said.  Buick, Ford  GM’s Buick LaCrosse with eAssist scored lower than rivals
because of “a narrow cockpit, a busy dashboard, obscured sight
lines and trunk storage that’s compromised” by its hybrid
battery system, according to the statement. The drivetrain
helped the LaCrosse achieve 26 mpg in Consumer Reports testing,
the best in the large-sedan category.  Ford’s Taurus is “quiet and rides smoothly,” according to
the statement. The sedan lost points for its “cramped”
interior with limited visibility and because of the
“cumbersome” MyFord Touch control system,  Consumer Reports 
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  