-- Citigroup Chief Says Supermarket Bank Not Right for Times
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-08-22T21:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/citigroup-chief-says-supermarket-bank-not-right-for-times.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief Executive
Officer Vikram Pandit said supermarket banking, a strategy
pursued by his firm in past decades to provide all financial
products including insurance, no longer fits the times.  The 1998 merger of Citicorp with insurer Travelers Group
Inc. “didn’t turn out to be everything people thought it was
going to be,” Pandit said today during a presentation at
 Singapore ’s Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy. “The focus of
that merger, which was supermarket banking or financial
supermarket, is a strategy that I don’t believe is right for the
times. Not only that, I don’t believe it’s right for our bank.”  Banking leaders including Pandit predecessor Sanford “Sandy” Weill and JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon are debating
whether big banks should break up or limit their products in the
wake of 2008’s credit crisis. Pandit, who has been reorganizing
New York-based Citigroup after repaying taxpayer-funded
bailouts, said in November he no longer considers the retail
lender and investment bank to be a supermarket.  “Getting out of that strategy is what we’ve done,” said
Pandit, 55. “And now we focus on what is really the core
banking business of this institution.”  Travelers Merger  Citigroup, the third-biggest  U.S. bank , had $1.92 trillion
of  assets  at the end of June and employed more than 260,000
people. The lender operates in more than 100 countries with
services include trading, underwriting, asset management,
treasury management, private banking and commercial, mortgage
and consumer lending.  More than  half  of Citigroup’s $38 billion revenue for the
first six months of 2012 came from the global consumer banking
unit, with offerings such as Chinese credit cards and Mexican
personal loans. The securities and banking division, which
includes trading and investment banking, accounted for $10.7
billion. The transaction-services unit had $5.55 billion.  Citicorp was a commercial bank when it combined with
Travelers, which owned the investment firm Salomon Smith Barney
Holdings Inc. The merger went ahead after the repeal of the
Depression-era  Glass-Steagall Act , which had separated
traditional banks from those involved in  capital markets .  Citigroup spun off Travelers Property Casualty Corp. in
2002 and disposed of other businesses and assets following
2008’s credit crisis. It still ranks among  Wall Street ’s five
biggest investment banks.  ‘Boring’ Business  “We’re back to what Citi was prior to that merger,”
focusing on “simple” and “boring” business, Pandit said.
“Yes, we have some additions, and some of our capital markets
capabilities that came from there, but these are capabilities
Citi would have built anyway over time independently in response
to the market.”  Pandit’s comments were “unbelievable,” said  Michael Mayo ,
an analyst at CLSA Ltd. and author of “Exile on Wall Street,”
in a phone interview. Citigroup’s investment bank alone is three
times bigger than all of Citicorp was in 1997, said Mayo, who
has an underperform rating on the shares. Today’s lender is also
more complex and operates in more countries than its
predecessor, he wrote yesterday in a note to clients.  “They are no more the company of 1997 than  Bill Clinton  is
still president, ‘Candle in the Wind’ is the top song and
‘Titanic’ is going to win the Oscar,” said Mayo. “So don’t go
telling investors that it’s essentially the same company as it
was in 1997, that’s not the case and by the way, it’s not a
close call.”  Break-Up Call  Weill, 79, who engineered the merger of Citicorp and
Travelers, said last month that it’s time to break up the
largest financial firms to avoid more bailouts. Investment banks
should be split from deposit-taking commercial banks, he said.  Citigroup almost collapsed in 2008 amid losses tied to
subprime mortgages and took a $45 billion bailout. Pandit, who
became CEO in 2007, created the Citi Holdings unit in 2009 to
dispose of more than $600 billion in unwanted assets.  He has since sold private-equity stakes, auto loans,
mortgage portfolios, Student Loan Corp., and life insurer
 Primerica Inc. (PRI)  Citi Holdings, which has posted almost $20
billion in losses since inception, still held about $191 billion
of assets as of June 30, 28 percent less than a year earlier.  “It is clear in hindsight that, crisis or no crisis, Citi
had to be restructured,” Pandit said. “Citi today is smaller,
simpler, safer and stronger.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  