-- Citigroup Expands European Credit Trading as Rivals Cut Back
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-08-22T15:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/citigroup-to-expand-european-credit-trading-as-rivals-cut-back.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
 U.S. bank , plans to increase the headcount for its European
credit sales and trading team by as much as 5 percent to seize
market share from rivals cutting back in the region.  The bank is looking to hire more staff for the business in
the next six to 12 months, according to Conor Davis, head of
credit sales for Europe. Citigroup, which has about 100 people
in the team, is growing while European firms including Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  shed thousands
of workers.  Citigroup is expanding in European debt sales and trading
as lenders across the continent sell assets to meet tougher
capital requirements and weather the region’s debt crisis. The
growth comes as the New York-based firm, led by 55-year old
Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , cuts jobs elsewhere to
pare costs.  “Whilst keeping headcount flat globally we have been
gradually increasing staff in Europe for the past four years,
filling in the gaps in our franchise, with investment-grade
corporate debt trading and distressed being the two areas of
focus,” Davis said in an interview from his London office.  Citigroup’s credit sales and trading team will seek to
profit from matching buyers and sellers as European lenders
shrink and sell assets.  ‘Potential Growth’  “We see areas of potential growth which would require
further investment,” Davis said. “This crisis and the
deleveraging of European banks are bringing a lot of trading
opportunities because risk needs to be shifted out of the banks’
balance sheets.”  European banks may need to reduce their balance sheets by
$2.2 trillion to $3.8 trillion through asset sales and reduced
lending to meet tougher  capital requirements , the Washington-based  International Monetary Fund  said in a  report  in April.
Disposals will include about 500 billion euros ($623 billion) of
loan portfolio sales from banks in the next five to 10 years,
Moody’s Investors Service said on Aug. 8.  The  European Central Bank ’s injection of more than 1
trillion euros into the financial system since December has
helped banks slow the pace of asset disposals. This means the
amount of deals seen so far “is only the tip of the iceberg,”
Davis said.  Citigroup has already lured some credit traders from rival
firms including Morgan Stanley’s Nick Gray, the bank said
earlier this month. In June it hired Bjoern Wiegelmann from
Deutsche Bank and Nicolas Dujols from Capula Investment
Management LLP, a $13 billion hedge fund firm.  New Hires  In credit sales, Citigroup hired Pepijn Voorn from  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , Anju Kapur from  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and
Christopher de Simencourt, formerly with  Natixis (KN) , the U.S. bank
said last month.  Other parts of Citigroup are under pressure to cut jobs.
The bank disclosed plans to eliminate about 1,200 workers from
the securities and banking division in January and said in
February it won’t make “meaningful investments” in the
business this year. The unit, overseen by Jamie Forese, includes
trading and investment banking.  Citigroup’s fixed-income trading revenue rose 9 percent
from a year earlier to $7.55 billion in the first half of 2012
excluding accounting adjustments, according to regulatory
filings. It’s still 12 percent less than the $8.6 billion the
bank posted from the business for the same period in 2010.  The stock rose 0.07 percent to $30.75 at 11:12 a.m. in  New
York  today, compared with the  S&P 500  that fell 0.25 percent.  Headcount Cuts  The lender probably won’t need additional “massive”
headcount reductions to respond to market challenges, Chief
Financial Officer  John Gerspach  said in July. Citigroup plans to
cut about 350 more jobs from the securities and banking division
this year, a person familiar with the matter said in July,
asking for anonymity because the changes haven’t been announced
publicly.  Citigroup’s European credit business is hiring when
financial firms based in western Europe have announced more than
30,000 job cuts this year. This compares with 5,000 in  North
America  and accounts for 73 percent of the industry’s global
reductions, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest lender, said on July 31 it
will cut 1,900 jobs, including 1,500 at the investment bank, as
part of an effort to save 3 billion euros. Most of the reduction
will take place outside of Germany, the Frankfurt-based bank
said. RBS said in January it will cut about 4,800 jobs,
including 3,500 at the investment bank as it jettisons
unprofitable units.  “It’s a great time to expand in  Europe  because with banks
under cost pressure there are really good people available that
weren’t previously,” Citigroup’s Davis said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  