-- Coal Plants’ Victory Over EPA Is Muted by Low Gas Prices
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-08-22T04:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/coal-plants-victory-over-epa-is-muted-by-low-gas-prices.html
Southern Co. (SO) ,  Edison International (EIX) 
and rival power companies won a legal fight with the
Environmental Protection Agency, gaining more time and leeway to
cut pollution from burning coal. The bigger challenges from
cheap natural gas may make it a muted victory.  “This really is a black eye for the EPA,” James Lucier,
managing director at Capital Alpha Partners LLC in  Washington ,
said in an interview. “But for the industry, the critical
factor overall has been the low price of natural gas,” which is
“the great destroyer.”  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington yesterday struck
down the EPA’s cross-state air pollution rule, saying the agency
illegally usurped state authority for air-pollution programs and
imposed caps on sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide lower than
necessary to clean up the air in neighboring states.  While Edison and  American Electric Power Co. (AEP)  say that gave
them a needed reprieve, the trouble is that other EPA
requirements are looming and cheap natural gas is making coal-
fired electricity generation increasingly uncompetitive.  “At the end of the day the older, dirtier coal plants are
going to close,”  Sam Brothwell , a senior utility analyst at
Bloomberg Industries, said in a telephone interview. “It’s an
economic decision.”  Stock Performance  AEP fell 46 cents to $42.65 yesterday, after initially
rising on the news. Southern fell 15 cents to $45.82, reversing
an initial decline once the court decision was announced.
 Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the largest U.S. coal producer, rose 85
cents to $23.79 in  New York  trading.  The cross-state rule, issued in July 2011, is just one of a
suite of regulations the EPA has proposed to curb pollution from
coal-fired power plants. While the other rules won’t go into
effect soon, and also face legal challenges of their own,
together they are forcing power producers to install control
technologies and cut the pollution they emit.  In yesterday’s ruling, the court ordered the agency to
continue to enforce a similar rule issued in 2005 until a viable
replacement can be issued. The EPA has already begun to do this;
however, a different panel of appeals court judges in 2008
ordered the EPA to rework that rule, saying it was too weak.  Conflicting Mandates  The government may need to go back and ask the full Court
of Appeals or  Supreme Court  to sort out these conflicting legal
mandates, said  David Marshall , a senior counsel at the Clean Air
Task Force, who represented environmental groups in this case.  AEP, the largest U.S. coal consumer, said the air-quality
goals that cross-state rule targeted would be achieved by the
2005 rule. The earlier regulation’s emission limits aren’t as
tough as the Obama-era rule, and it allows producers to trade
pollution credits, easing the burden on some smaller plants.  “We are willing to move forward to make additional
emission reductions, but we believe it can be done in a more
reasonable way,”  Pat Hemlepp , a spokesman for Columbus, Ohio-
based AEP, said in an e-mail.  Sulfur dioxide can lead to acid rain and soot emissions
harmful to humans and ecosystems, and nitrogen oxide is a
component of ground-level ozone, a main ingredient of smog. Coal
accounts for 98 percent of sulfur dioxide and 92 percent of
nitrogen oxides released into the air by  power plants , according
to the EPA.  Undue Burden  Among the power companies challenging the rule were
Southern, EME Homer City Generation LP, a unit of Edison
International, and Energy Future Holdings Corp. units in  Texas .
The state of Texas and the National Mining Association joined in
parallel cases, saying the rule, which was issued last year,
would put an undue financial burden on power producers and
threaten electricity reliability. The cases were consolidated by
the court.  For Republican lawmakers, who have accused President  Barack Obama ’s EPA for waging a “war on coal,” the ruling was
welcomed as a much-needed reprieve.  The cross-state rule “is just one of several new EPA rules
targeting America’s power sector that together will cost our
economy tens of billions of dollars and put thousands of jobs at
risk,”  Fred Upton , the Michigan Republican chairman of the
House Energy and Commerce Committee, said in a statement. “The
EPA is an agency out of control.”  Mercury Rules  AEP and Southern say they will need to spend billions of
dollars complying with the EPA rule issued in December that
forces them to curb mercury and other air toxic emissions. That
rule is one of the most expensive regulations ever issued, and
applies to every coal plant in the country.  Southern, based in Atlanta, already spent more than $8
billion on pollution controls and plans to invest at least $1.5
billion more through 2015, Southern spokesman Tim Leljedal said
in a phone interview. Southern now burns more natural gas than
coal.  Any future EPA rule on cross-state pollution, “may have
minimal regulatory impact” given related requirements from the
mercury standard, Christine Tezak, managing director of
ClearView Energy Partners LLC, said in a research note.  The EPA also proposed rules for  greenhouse gases  from power
plants, a regulation that power companies warn will preclude the
construction of new coal-fired power plants.  Gas Prices  Natural gas matched coal as the primary fuel for U.S. power
generation in April for the first time since the government
started collecting data, as natural  gas prices  reached a 10-year
low that month. Electricity generated from natural gas is
expected to increase 23 percent this year in the U.S., while
coal-fueled power falls 12 percent, according to an Aug. 7
Energy Department report.  Energy Future Holdings Corp., the biggest power generation
owner in Texas, said in September 2011 the cross-state rules
would force its Luminant division to shut two coal-fired units
that produce 1,200 megawatts, close nearby coal mines and fire
500 workers.  After the cross-state rule was stayed in December, the
company put those plans on hold.  “There will be no layoffs or facilities closures,” Allan
Koenig said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “We will
continue to face pressure created by other regulations affecting
power plants, as well as low power prices in the state.”  The case is EME Homer City Generation LP v. U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, 11-1302,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  