-- Colombia Output Rebound Tempers Expectations for Lower Rates
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-08-22T23:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/colombia-june-industrial-output-rose-2-8-from-year-earlier.html
Colombian  industry  expanded at its
fastest pace in four months in June, ending the contraction that
was one of the reasons cited by the central bank in its decision
to reduce borrowing costs last month.  Industrial production rose 2.8 percent from a year earlier,
the national statistics agency said today, more than all the
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of 20 analysts, whose median
forecast was for a 0.1 percent increase. The rise in output came
after three straight months of contracting output on a year-on-
year basis.  Retail sales  expanded 4 percent from a year earlier,
also exceeding the forecasts of all 20 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Colombia ’s central bank last month cut interest rates for
the first time since 2010, citing low inflation risks and weaker
consumer spending. The better-than-expected June results show
that the economy continues to grow strongly, said  Francisco Rodriguez , a New York-based economist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, who expects the central bank to hold its benchmark
interest rate unchanged until year-end.  “The economy appears to be growing close to potential,”
said Francisco Rodriguez, a New York-based economist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch. “There doesn’t seem to be the type of
demand-driven slowdown that would really justify a full-fledged
cutting cycle.”  Policy makers cut their benchmark interest rate a quarter
point to 5 percent last month, with some board members arguing
that the global slowdown justified a half-point cut. Twenty-five
of 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a second quarter-
point reduction at the bank’s Aug. 24 policy meeting.  ‘Possibility’  Juan David Ballen, an analyst at Alianza Valores SA in
Bogota, said he is now reconsidering his earlier forecast of a
quarter point cut this week.  “This opens the possibility that the central bank board
will hold rates,” Ballen said in a telephone interview. “They
could hold this month, and then cut again next month.”  Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said last month’s
rate cut marked the end of a “phase of stability” in  interest
rates  and the start of a “phase of reduction.”  In an interview last week, central bank board member Cesar Vallejo said the “key” determinant of interest rate moves is
whether gross domestic product is growing faster or slower than
its long-term potential rate, and whether it is accelerating or
slowing.  Peso, Inflation  Echeverry said today that the government is worried by the
impact that the strong peso is having on Colombian industry and
agriculture. The Treasury is buying $200 million this week, on
top of the $300 million it bought last week, to try to curb the
currency’s appreciation, Echeverry said.  The peso has strengthened 6.9 percent this year, the
biggest gain of 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the
Hungarian forint and the Chilean peso.  Consumer spending  growth will probably slow this year,
helping to reduce “capacity pressures”, the central bank said
in the minutes to its July policy meeting.  Colombia’s annual inflation slowed to 3.03 percent in July,
down from 3.73 percent at the start of the year. Colombia
targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one percentage
point.  The central bank doesn’t draw conclusions from individual
months of data, and instead studies three-month moving averages,
bank chief Jose Dario Uribe said in a July interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Jameson at 
 rjameson@bloomberg.net  