-- Colombia Government Buys $500 Million, Bypasses Central Bank
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-08-22T17:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/colombia-government-buys-500-million-bypasses-central-bank-2-.html
Colombia ’s Finance Ministry is
continuing a program of currency intervention parallel to the
 central bank ’s to weaken the peso and help the Andean nation’s
exporters amid a “currency war.”  The Treasury will buy $200 million this week after buying
$300 million last week, Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry
told reporters in Bogota today. The intervention is separate
from the central bank’s daily $20 million daily purchases.  “We’ve been buying and by the end of this week we’ll have
bought, on the part of the government, $500 million, in the plan
we are adopting to support the exchange rate,” Echeverry told
reporters in Bogota. “For now, we have the capacity to
accumulate some excess of liquidity in dollars.”  The government began its dollar purchase program after
central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe ignored repeated calls from
President  Juan Manuel Santos  to step up the bank’s program of
reserve accumulation. Colombia had  foreign currency reserves  of
$34.7 billion as of July.  The peso has appreciated 6.9 percent this year, the biggest
gain after the Hungarian Forint and the Chilean peso of the 31
most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as foreign
investment continues to pour into oil and mining projects, even
amid the  European debt crisis .  ‘Secondary Objective’  The government may use the dollars for a repurchase of its
dollar debt, said  Camilo Perez , the head analyst at Banco de
Bogota, the nation’s second-biggest bank.  “Holding dollars just to hold them is a very bad deal for
the government, when the cost of money is much higher in
Colombia,” Perez said in a telephone interview from Bogota.
“The  Finance Ministry  is conducting exchange rate policy, but
it must also have a secondary objective of an external debt
operation.”  The government won’t be able to continue its dollar
purchases for a sustained period, Perez said. The upper limit
would be $1 billion and $1.5 billion in an “extreme case” if
the peso strengthens to below 1,750 per dollar.  “At the end of the day, the government spends in pesos,
and needs pesos,” Perez said.  Last week, Echeverry said that the Treasury will continue
to buy dollars for as long as it has “ammunition”. The
minister, who sits on the central bank’s seven-member policy
committee, said today that he is “generally not on the winning
side” at the bank’s board meetings.  Policy Balance  Uribe last week published a paper entitled “In Defense of
The Current  Exchange Rate  Policy,” in which he said that the
central bank never buys reserves “in magnitudes and ways that
erode the credibility and reputation of the central bank.”  Central bank board member Cesar Vallejo said last week that
the government’s proposal to increase international reserves by
$13 billion would “completely distort” local credit markets,
although policy makers could increase daily dollar purchases to
$40 million.  The peso was little changed at 1814.20 per dollar at 12:06
p.m. in Bogota. The currency has weakened 1.2 percent this
month, the second-worst performance among 25 emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the government said it was
buying dollars. The central bank’s $20 million daily dollar
purchases are scheduled to end Nov. 2.  The central bank will cut its benchmark  interest rate  a
quarter point for a second straight month at its August policy
meeting this week, according to 25 of 29 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  