-- Columbia University Sued Over Mission of ‘Casa Italiana’
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-08-22T22:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/columbia-university-sued-over-mission-of-casa-italiana-.html
Columbia University  was sued by a
group of families for allegedly failing to use their donations
to promote Italian culture as the benefactors intended.  Several Italian-American families in 1927 donated $400,000
(worth about $5 million today) to the Manhattan-based university
to erect La Casa Italiana, the “Italian House,” on school
land, according to documents filed today in  New York  State
Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  The “simple and unambiguous” mission of the house was for
it to be university’s “centre and seat of its work in the field
of Italian language, literature, history and art,” according to
documents filed in court today by the Floral Park,  New York- 
based  Italic Institute , which said it’s the authorized legal
representative of descendants of the donor families.  “Today, however, the organization that occupies La Casa,
the Italian Academy for Advanced Studies in America, is off-
track,” according to the complaint. “The Italic Institute
views the current work of the academy as elitist and detached,
European and international (not uniquely Italian), and failing
to encompass any serious scholarship in Italian American
history, consciousness or concerns.”  Some programs at the house are in “stark contrast” to the
donors’ intent, or traffic in stereotypes of Italian-American
culture, according to the complaint. One such program, entitled
“What’ya mean I’m funny? Ball-busting Humor and Italian
American Masculinities,” was scheduled for November 2011,
according to the complaint.  Columbia University  doesn’t comment on pending litigation,
Brian Connolly, a spokesman for the school, said in an e-mail.  The case is Italic Institute of America Inc. v. Columbia
University, 652948/2012, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  