-- Company Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Climb Before Fed Minutes
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-08-22T17:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/company-credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-climb-before-fed-minutes.html
A gauge of corporate credit risk
increased the most in almost three weeks as investors await
Federal Reserve minutes for clues to U.S. monetary policy.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, climbed 1.5 basis points to a mid-price of
100.2 basis points at 12:36 p.m. in  New York , according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The swaps index rose before the Fed releases the minutes of
its July 31 to Aug. 1 policy meeting today as investor concern
increases that an economic slowdown will taint corporate balance
sheets and undermine companies’ ability to repay debt. Chicago
Fed President  Charles Evans  said a weakening in global trade is
“awful.”  The index, which tends to rise as investor confidence
deteriorates, fell to as low as 96.9 on Aug. 21, the lowest
intraday level since May 4. It’s fallen from 117.3 basis points
on July 25.  “We’ve had a nice sort of zero-resistance run for the last
few weeks,” Noel Hebert, chief investment officer at Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania-based Concannon Wealth Management LLC, which
oversees about $250 million, said in a telephone interview.
Investors are saying, “We’re getting back into that zone where
people start coming back in from vacation and reinserting
uncertainty into the landscape so why not just take a little bit
off the table?” he said.  Swap Spread  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The U.S.  two-year  interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
stress in credit markets, narrowed 1.12 basis point to 19.63
basis points. The measure, which falls when investors favor
assets such as corporate bonds and rises when they seek the
perceived safety of  government securities , has declined from
54.7 in November.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings increased 4.6 basis points to 141.5 and
the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings added 13.2 basis
points to 573.5, Bloomberg prices show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  