-- Confidence Returning as Revealed in Country Risk: Credit Markets
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-08-22T15:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/confidence-returning-as-revealed-in-country-risk-credit-markets.html
From the U.S. to  Germany  and  China ,
the risk of owning sovereign bonds has tumbled to the lowest in
a year as the specter of another systemic crisis that drags down
the world’s economy diminishes.  The average cost of  credit-default swaps  insuring the debt
of about 50 nations tracked by Bloomberg fell to 159 basis
points, from as high as 250 basis points in November. Swaps on
China are at the cheapest in five months, while Germany is at a
13-month low and the U.S. is at levels not seen since May.  Confidence in government debt has improved since June amid
mounting speculation that European policy makers will step up
efforts to curb the region’s debt crisis and as reports from
jobs to retail sales in the U.S. underpin growth. The rally
strengthened when European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
vowed on July 26 to do “whatever it takes” to save the euro
and signaled that would include buying  government bonds .  “All hopes are pinned very much on the ECB and that’s
fueling the rally in sovereign credit,” said Nicholas Spiro,
the managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London .
“ Europe  is very much still the focal point for market anxieties
and what happens in Europe has knock-on effects elsewhere.”  Peripheral Risk  Swaps tied to the debt of  Spain  and  Italy , two of the euro-
region’s so-called peripheral countries, fell to the lowest
since April on speculation efforts to cap their bond yields will
buy time for their economies to heal. Contracts on Spain dropped
to 445 basis points from a record 647 on July 25, while Italy
declined to 394 from this year’s high of 580 on June 1.  Japan plunged to a 15-month low of 79 from 110 on June 4,
while contracts on China tumbled to 104 from 143.5 on the same
day, prices compiled by Bloomberg show. The U.S. fell to 40 from
a five-month high of 51 on June 22 amid signs of strength in the
world’s largest economy.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Aetna Inc. obtained a $2
billion bridge loan to finance the health insurer’s acquisition
of Coventry Health Care Inc. General Electric Co. sold $1.13
billion of bonds backed by credit-card payments after doubling
the offering. The cost to protect against losses on company debt
in  North America  and Europe rose the most in almost three weeks.  Corporate Risk  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on corporate creditworthiness in the U.S.
and Canada, climbed from about the lowest in more than 15 weeks,
rising 1.4 basis points to 100.1 basis points as of 11:40 a.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  In London, the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings jumped 5 to 142.2.  Both indexes, which gained the most since Aug. 2, typically
increase as investor confidence deteriorates and fall as it
improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG are arranging the 364-
day financing for Hartford, Connecticut-based Aetna, the insurer
said in a regulatory filing today.  Aetna will pay interest on the debt tied to ratings, the
company said, which begins at one percentage point more than the
London interbank offered rate when ratings are A3, A- and A- by
Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings,
respectively. The rate increases by 0.25 percentage point if the
grades deteriorate.  GE Issue  GE’s credit-card securities offering was originally $563
million, according to a person familiar with the deal who asked
not to be identified because the terms aren’t public. The
Fairfield, Connecticut-based company paid 43 basis points more
than the benchmark swap rate on top-ranked securities maturing
in about five years, the person said.  Sales of asset-backed securities linked to credit-card debt
in 2012 are at the highest level in two years, according to
Wells Fargo & Co. Companies issued $18.9 billion of the bonds
through Aug. 15, up from about $10 billion during the same
period of 2011, the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based analysts
said in an Aug. 20 report.  Bonds of Caracas-based Petroleos de Venezuela SA, or PDVSA,
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, with 28 trades of $1 million or
more of the state-oil company’s debt as of 11:34 a.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Softening Stance  Confidence is returning to sovereign-debt markets as euro-
area leaders take steps to contain the crisis that’s weighing on
the global economy.  This week the continent’s leaders are engaged in a round of
diplomacy before French President  Francois Hollande  and German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  meet to discuss the crisis in Berlin
tomorrow. Merkel has signaled a softening in her stance toward
Draghi’s rescue plan for Italy and Spain.  “The euro-zone crisis has penalized global growth,” said
 Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg Bank in London.
Potential intervention by the ECB “reduces the risk of major
defaults in the euro zone and also reduces the chances of
another global financial crisis,” he said.  IMF Forecast  The  International Monetary Fund  on July 16 cut its global
growth forecast for 2013 to 3.9 percent from a 4.1 percent
estimate in April, citing risks that U.S. and European officials
mismanage their responses to the problem of excessive debt.  Economic indicators in the U.S. such as employment and
 retail sales  are improving, though the  jobless rate  marked its
42nd straight month above 8 percent in July and the country
faces a so-called fiscal cliff of higher taxes and spending cuts
during an election year.  In China,  home prices  are rising even as growth in the
world’s second-largest  economy  slows, while in Germany a senior
lawmaker with Merkel’s party indicated yesterday that the
government may be willing to make concessions to  Greece  on the
deficit-reduction targets that are a condition of its bailout.  Germany’s Bundesbank has opposed the bond-buying plan,
while Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Aug. 18 that
solving the crisis mustn’t become a “bottomless pit” for the
country.  The drop in swap prices “is almost entirely driven by the
ECB and by the perception that there is going to be a more
credible and effective interim backstop, and the jury is still
very much out on that one,” Spiro said. “It looks very much
like the market is setting itself up for disappointment.”  Saving Euro  Default risk of countries that will shoulder the burden of
saving the euro is also declining as optimism a resolution is at
hand outweighs the potential costs of a rescue. Contracts on
Germany fell to 54, the lowest since July 22, 2011, from as high
as 111 in June, Bloomberg prices show.  At the same time as investors bet a euro-region rescue plan
will be good for Germany’s creditworthiness, fund managers are
selling the country’s bonds because they’re a defensive haven
asset favored in times of adversity. Yields on the nation’s  10-
year bund  rose 35 basis points in the past month to 1.53
percent.  “If you think a  euro-zone  make-up is going to cost Germany
less than a euro-zone breakup, you’d expect German CDS to come
in,” said Lyn Graham-Taylor, a fixed-income strategist at
Rabobank International in London. “A sell-off in German debt is
a risk-on play that the euro zone will survive.”  Brazil to China  The average of credit swaps on countries from  Brazil  to
China excludes non-investment grade governments such as
Argentina and Portugal, though many of those nations are also
rallying. Swaps on Portugal, which was the third of the five
European countries that have been bailed out, dropped to a 15-
month low of 658 from a record 1,554 on Jan. 30 as the
government reforms its economy.  Credit-swap trade volumes on the euro region’s most
indebted governments have fallen since the sovereign crisis
started, while those on core countries have risen.  Contracts outstanding protect a net $23 billion of French
debt and $22 billion of German bonds, compared with $20 billion
for Italy, $13 billion for Spain and $4 billion for the U.S.,
according to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit swaps
on 15 governments was at 223 basis points, the lowest since the
latest series of the gauge started trading in March and three
basis points off the level the measure dropped to after Greece
was removed.  “We have seen a strong tightening of sovereign spread and
a general move of steepening of curves,” said Francois Popon,
co-head of credit trading at Societe Generale SA in London. The
prospect of “the ECB intervening on the short end of the curve
on Italy and Spain is driving this move.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  