-- ConocoPhillips Sells Russian Venture Stake to Partner Lukoil
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-08-22T14:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/conocophillips-sells-russian-venture-stake-to-partner-lukoil-1-.html
ConocoPhillips (COP)  sold its 30 percent
stake in a Russian joint venture to co-owner OAO Lukoil, the
latest divestment in a three-year plan to boost returns.  The sale of the indirect stake in OOO NaryanMarNefteGaz was
completed for an undisclosed price, the Houston-based company
said today in a statement. Although financial terms weren’t
disclosed, it expects to book an after-tax gain of about $400
million from the deal.  ConocoPhillips, which once held as much as 20 percent of
Lukoil, last year completed the sale of its remaining holding in
 Russia ’s second-largest crude producer. Last month, the U.S.
company said it’s on track to have $8 billion to $10 billion of
asset sales by the middle of 2013.  “The sale of this non-core quality asset is an important
component of our divestiture program for 2012,” said Don Wallette, executive vice president for commercial, business
development, and corporate planning. “We are pleased that
Lukoil, the co-owner of NMNG, recognizes the value of this
asset.”  Lukoil said the deal gives it full ownership of the venture
in the northern Timan Pechora region, where it plans to
consolidate assets.  The venture with Lukoil was part of a strategic alliance
that the companies agreed to in 2004.  In Russia, ConocoPhillips remains a 50 percent partner in
the Polar Lights venture with  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , the country’s largest
oil producer,  John McLemore , a ConocoPhillips spokesman, said by
e-mail. He declined to speculate on other projects or investment
opportunities in Russia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  