-- Convicted 1993 Bomb Plotter Challenges Prison Measures
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-08-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/convicted-1993-bomb-plotter-challenges-prison-measures.html
Ramzi Yousef, the convicted
mastermind of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing serving a
prison term of life plus 240 years, asked an appeals court to
lift restrictions on his contact with the outside world.  Yousef has been under so-called special administrative
measures, or SAMs, in the maximum-security federal prison in
Florence,  Colorado , since 1998, his lawyer said. Other prisoners
there include Theodore Kaczynski, the Unabomber; and Terry Nichols, convicted in the 1995  Oklahoma City bombing .  Yousef, 44, is barred from having physical contact with
other inmates, and his communications with anyone outside the
prison are severely restricted, his attorney, Bernard V.
Kleinman, said yesterday in a court hearing. The lawyer is
challenging the government’s decision to re-impose the measures
annually without explanation.  “He was convicted in 1996, and that’s never going to
change,” Kleinman told a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of
Appeals in  Manhattan . “In the year 2075 he’ll still be re-upped
because he’s still convicted of the offenses.”  Yousef, who the Sept. 11 Commission identified as the
nephew of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the alleged mastermind of the
terrorist attacks, was convicted by juries in federal court in
 New York  in two terrorism cases, the first for a plot to bomb a
dozen U.S. passenger jetliners in the  Far East  in one day and
the second for the World Trade Center bombing.  Six people were killed in the 1993 bombing and more than a
thousand injured. A Japanese man was killed during a trial run
of the airliner plot, witnesses at the trial testified.  ‘Supermax’ Facility  At Colorado’s so-called Supermax facility 90 miles (145
kilometers) south of Denver, Yousef is housed alone in a
separate wing of the prison and human interaction is limited to
prison guards. His mail is monitored and the last time Yousef
met with his lawyer in person was in October 2010, Kleinman
said.  “He recognizes he’ll be in jail for the rest of his
life,” Kleinman said in an interview after court. “But
certainly to have some human interaction is a reasonable request
for anyone,” he said. “Being a prisoner is punishment
enough.”  U.S. District Judge Kevin Duffy, who presided over Yousef’s
trials, last year rejected the challenge to the prison
conditions.  Federal authorities have said the conditions were imposed
and have been renewed annually because Yousef still poses a
“substantial risk” that his communications with the outside
could lead to “death or serious bodily injury.”  Timothy McVeigh  Prior to the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, Yousef had
other prisoners nearby, including Kaczynski, Nichols and his co-
defendant, Timothy McVeigh, before McVeigh was executed in 2001,
Kleinman said.  After the Sept. 11 attacks, Yousef was moved to a
segregated wing of six cells, Kleinman said. Other convicted
terrorists were also moved to the Colorado facility and housed
separately from Yousef, he said.  U.S. Bureau of Prisons records show that at least four
others convicted with Yousef are also at the Florence facility,
including Mohammad Salameh and Eyad Ismoil.  The lawyer said Yousef was watching television on the day
of the Sept. 11 attacks and was later questioned by agents with
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation . The lawyer said he and
Yousef have never discussed the attacks, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed
or the killing of  Osama bin Laden .  ‘Someone to Talk’  Yousef spends much of his time focused on the conditions of
his confinement, Kleinman said after court. When a prison
official came to visit, Yousef seized the chance to speak with
him because “it was just someone to talk to,” Kleinman said.  “Human interaction is really a big issue with him,”
Kleinman said. “I think it’s plainly unfair. I know he’s not a
sympathetic character, I know there are legitimate hard feelings
but the government should apply the same rules to everybody or
not apply them at all.”  The appeals court panel didn’t say when it will rule.  Chris Burke, a spokesman for the U.S. Bureau of Prisons,
declined to comment on the case. Assistant U.S. Attorney
Nicholas Lewin, representing the government, declined to comment
after court.  Mohammed, who was charged as a co-defendant in the airline
bombing plot, is set to face trial before a military tribunal in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  The cases are U.S. v. Ramzi Yousef, 93-cr-180, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan); and
11-3920,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  