-- Copper Seen Falling as Japanese Exports Add to World Slump Signs
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-08-22T12:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/copper-seen-falling-as-japanese-exports-add-to-world-slump-signs.html
Copper was seen falling in  New York 
as slumping Japanese exports added to evidence of a global
economic slowdown, undermining prospects for demand.  Shipments dropped 8.1 percent from a year earlier, the
 Finance Ministry  said today. Exports to the European Union,
embroiled in the euro debt crisis, plunged the most since
October 2009. Growth has weakened for six quarters in  China , the
world’s biggest copper consumer, while euro-area services and
manufacturing output shrank for a sixth month in July.  “The lower exports are a worrying sign about the strength
of the global economy,”  William Adams , an analyst at
Basemetals.com in  London , said in a report.  Copper for December delivery declined 0.3 percent to $3.449
a pound by 7:58 a.m. on the Comex in New York. Prices yesterday
reached $3.474, the highest level since July 20. The London
Metal Exchange’s three-month contract fell 0.4 percent to $7,580
a metric ton.  Declines may be limited by figures predicted to show a
stronger housing market in the U.S., the second-biggest copper
user. The Copper Development Association says construction
generates about 40 percent of demand for the metal.  A report due at 10 a.m. New York time may show sales of
existing U.S. houses climbed in July from an eight-month low,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Figures tomorrow
may show improved sales of new dwellings.  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company, put
on hold a planned expansion of the Olympic Dam mine in  Australia 
that would have increased copper output almost fourfold to
750,000 tons a year. That was among about $68 billion of
projects delayed after second-half profit plunged 58 percent.  Copper  stockpiles  monitored by the LME fell 0.1 percent to
234,175 tons, daily exchange figures showed. Orders to withdraw
the metal from warehouses jumped 21 percent to 45,275 tons.  Nickel, lead and zinc rose in London as tin and aluminum
fell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  