-- Crave Recovers From Crane Accident With $31 Lobster Curry
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-08-22T16:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/crave-recovers-from-crane-accident-with-31-lobster-curry.html
It took a brave chef to open  Crave
Ceviche Bar . Ever crave ceviche? Me neither.  Who knows whether it would have succeeded? Crave was
destroyed and then demolished following a fatal crane accident
back in 2008.  Now, four years later, chef Todd Mitgang has reopened Crave
across the street from the original in Turtle Bay, which extends
along the  East River  in midtown. Despite the presence of fine
spots like BonChon and Socarrat, the area is still more about
burritos and spicy tuna rolls than quality cooking.  No matter. At just six weeks old, Crave is bustling. The
new spot has a better name -- Crave Fishbar -- and it still
serves lots of raw fish, much of it quite good.  Mitgang slices scallops thin and douses them in enough
curry oil to heat up Manitoba ($14). He adds sliced heirloom
cherry tomatoes to black bass sashimi for the right amount of
zing. Then he ups the ante with king salmon that’s cut as thick
as a corn-fed ribeye ($14.50). Take a bite and you’re hit with a
buttery, fatty, fishy rush.  But raw fluke, advertised as containing Sichuan peppercorn,
sports none of that ingredient’s trademark numbingness.  Mish Mash  And of course, there is spicy tuna, an indistinct mash that
tastes neither of spice nor of tuna.  Crave is a long, attractive rectangle of a room where you
can relax with a proper cocktail without having to wait 45
minutes for a spot at the counter, a pleasure not to be
discounted in an era when you often need to ask permission to
sit without eating.  The Captain Melon ($13), a mix of watermelon, gin and
elderflower liqueur, avoids any cloying inclinations with the
right squirt of lime. Mezcal, rum and smoked ginger ($12), in
turn, is a sly, smoky riff on the dark and stormy. Pair the
latter with a garlicky, briny cherrystone clam chowder ($8.50),
and there’s your summer meal.  Too Much  Just be sure to discard the heap of dinosaur kale in your
soup. That’s a problem with Crave’s fare. Mitgang has a tendency
to muddle good flavors with too many ingredients.  A warm pile of Florida crab doesn’t need much. Well, maybe
some bean puree? Sure thing. Corn too? A little summer sweetness
wouldn’t hurt. Zucchini? Alright, now we’re starting to overdo
it. And squash. And garbanzos. You get my drift.  An old rule of fashion is to remove one accessory before
you leave the house; Mitgang should consider that when
(undercooked) swordfish leaves the kitchen with a laundry list
of extras: eggplant salad, red finger chili puree, fresh greens,
crispy farrow and taggiasca olives ($28).  My companion almost missed the excellent saffron sauce with
his rare tuna, as he was already preoccupied by the dish’s
glazed turnips, carrots and tomato-sherry salsa ($28.50). This
is what happens when servers (consistently) fail to describe
what’s on the plate. They simply serve the food and leave.  No one wants a didactic experience at a neighborhood joint,
but if a dish has six distinct elements, it’s worth taking a few
extra seconds to explain all the intricacies.  Grape Juice  And wines, like a mineral-tinged vinho verde ($9) or a
floral torrontes ($10), arrive tableside already poured, with no
offer to check the label or taste first. As a result, Crave
makes artisanal wine appear like grape juice.  Fried chicken is an odd man out on the mostly maritime
menu; order it anyway. The vinegar sauce, American cheddar and
Israeli couscous make the bird taste like what would happen if a
Southern chef moved to the  Middle East  and prepared a Filipino
adobo. It is somehow more delicious than confusing.  Mitgang exhibits deftness with his seafood and meats,
coating baby octopus with a succulent veal glace and musky
maitake mushrooms. He renders all the fat out of lamb ribs, and
cuts any remaining richness with a tomatillo salsa.  Lobster ($31) is overcurried, but the heady crustacean can
stand up to it all. Sop up the juices with egg fried rice and
skip the ho-hum desserts.  All in all, it’s a step up for Turtle Bay.  Rating: * 1/2  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Dishes range from $8-$36.  Sound Level: About average, around 70 decibels.  Date Place: Sure, sashimi is sexy.  Inside Tip: Avoid the sour shrimp spaghetti.  Special Feature: Good house-made bread.  Back on My Own Dime: For cocktails, chowder and curry.  Crave Fishbar is at 945 Second Avenue. Information: +1-646-
895-9585 or  http://cravefishbar.com/ .  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Mark Beech on  music  and Jeffrey
Burke on  books .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 