-- Delhaize Soars as Food Lion Lures Back Shoppers: Brussels Mover
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-08-22T08:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/delhaize-soars-as-food-lion-lures-back-shoppers-brussels-mover.html
Delhaize Group SA (DELB) , the owner of the
U.S. Food Lion stores, rose the most in almost 3 1/2 years after
price cuts lured back shoppers, driving revenue growth in more
than a third of the Food Lion network.  Delhaize soared as much as 8.4 percent on Euronext
Brussels, the biggest intraday gain since March 2009, and  traded 
2.31 euros higher at 35.47 euros by 10:45 a.m. local time. The
shares, which have lost 23 percent in the past 12 months, are
trading for about  nine times  adjusted profit this year, based on
the average of 29 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Comparable sales growth in the 434 Food Lion stores where
Delhaize had already cut prices and improved its offering of
fresh produce by the end of March exceeded 3 percent in the
second quarter. That compares with a 0.6 percent contraction in
same-store sales for all of the 1,548 stores Delhaize operates
in the U.S. Same-store sales growth in  Belgium  was positive for
the first time in 1 1/2 years following price cuts.  “We are positively surprised by the continued good like-
for-like of the Food Lion stores after remodelling,” Fabienne Caron, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in  Frankfurt , wrote
in a note to clients. “While the consensus should not move, the
market should be reassured by the continued positive impact.”  Price Cuts  Delhaize extended price cuts this year as it seeks to
revive the Food Lion network in the southeastern U.S., fend off
competitors such as ShopRite to its Hannaford banner in the
northeast and win back shoppers lost to discounter Colruyt NV in
its Belgian home market. The retailer is also opening additional
Bottom Dollar Food discount stores in the Pittsburgh area,
giving up short-term  profitability  to drive revenue growth.  The price cuts, as well as the lower profitability of the
Belgrade-based Delta Maxi DOO it bought last year, reduced
Delhaize’s gross margin by 92 basis points to 24.3 percent, the
lowest level in at least eight years. The proportion of revenue
left after subtracting costs of goods sold had shrunk 86 basis
points in the prior quarter.  Operating profit excluding some items fell to 184 million
euros ($229 million) in the second quarter, an 18 percent
decrease before currency effects. That  beat  the 173.4 million-
euro average of 10 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Delhaize said full-year profit on that basis will be “at
the bottom-end” of a May 3 forecast for a 15 percent to 20
percent decline as the grocer prepares to make additional price
reductions to lure cash-strapped consumers. Price cuts and a
“persistent difficult” trading environment in Belgium will
affect third-quarter earnings, Delhaize said in the statement.  Free Cash Flow  The grocer also reiterated its target to generate 500
million euros of cash not required for reinvestment this year,
or about 14 percent of its current market value. Free  cash flow 
fell 60 percent to 126 million euros in the six months through
June.  “We have some difficulty in seeing the target to be
reached by the end of the year,” said Marc Leemans, an analyst
at Banque Degroof SA in Brussels. “Interests paid look somewhat
skewed to the first half, but  capital expenditures  seem to be on
track to come in at the guided range. Working capital was a
source of funds in the first half to the tune of 75 million
euros.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  