-- Democratic Group Attacks Koch Brothers in Secretly Funded Ads
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-08-22T17:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/democratic-group-attacks-koch-brothers-in-secretly-funded-ads.html
A secretly funded Democratic group
is running a $500,000 national television advertising campaign
spotlighting the Koch brothers as the money behind Republican
groups that also don’t disclose their donors.  As a giant check reading “Billionaires' Special Interests”
and pictures of the brothers flash on screen, a male narrator
says, “Billionaire oil tycoons Charles and  David Koch  and their
special-interest friends are spending $400 million to buy this
year’s elections and advance their agenda.”  The Kochs -- the seventh and eight richest people in the
world, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  -- are co-
owners of Koch Industries Inc. based in Wichita,  Kansas . It’s
one of the largest closely held companies in the world and has
business interests in consumer products, chemicals and minerals,
in addition to oil.  The 30-second spot airs for two weeks on CNN and  MSNBC ,
making its debut last night. It is supplemented by a website
called “Stop the Greed Agenda” and online ads.  Democratic Strategist  The campaign is being waged by Patriot Majority, a group
allied with Democratic super-political action committees that
back President  Barack Obama  and Democratic congressional
candidates. Patriot Majority’s president is Craig Varoga, a
Democratic strategist who has worked on past Democratic
presidential campaigns, including for  Bill Clinton  and  Al Gore .  Like Koch-backed groups including Americans for Prosperity
and the 60 Plus Association, Patriot Majority is organized as a
nonprofit, so it doesn’t disclose its donors and has limits on
how much of its budget can be devoted to political activities.  A related super-political action committee of the same
name, which was active in 2010 and not in this election, counted
unions as its top contributors, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan campaign-finance tracker in
Washington.  Varoga wouldn’t disclose the nonprofit’s donors or say how
much money it plans to spend this year.  “We didn’t make the rules, we just play by them,” he
said.  Koch Industries calls the ad “dishonest.”  “Rather than run on their record and engage in a
principled discussion about the critical issues facing Americans
today, the president’s allies instead choose to attack and
demonize private citizens and job creators who disagree with
them on the direction this country is going,” Philip Ellender,
president of government affairs for  Koch Industries ’s Koch
Companies Public Sector LLC, said in a statement posted on its
website.  ‘Economic Freedom’  “Koch has a long history of standing firm for the
principles of economic freedom and we will continue to do so, in
spite of the ongoing attacks,” the statement says.  The ad asserts that the Koch brothers and their allies will
spend $400 million on 2012 elections, a figure reported by
Politico. “What’s the payback?” the ad asks. “Politicians who
will pass laws that benefit special interests but hurt the
middle class: more tax cuts for the rich, eliminate the minimum
wage, big cuts to our schools, but big subsidies for  oil
companies .”  Rob Tappan, a spokesman for Koch, said that while the
brothers don’t support government subsidies of any kind, the
company pursues them because it doesn’t want to be at a
competitive disadvantage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in  Washington  at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  