-- Deutsche Bank’s Milrod Hired by DTCC as Administrative Chief
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-08-22T15:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/deutsche-bank-s-milrod-named-dtcc-s-chief-administrative-officer.html
Donna Milrod,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s
deputy chief executive officer for the Americas, was hired by
the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. as chief administrative
officer.  Milrod will join the New York-based firm in mid-October and
serve on its management committee, DTCC said today in a
statement. She will report to CEO Michael Bodson and oversee the
company’s finance, operations and regulatory relations groups.  Milrod came to Deutsche Bank from its purchase of  Bankers
Trust , which she joined in 1993, and had helped lead strategy
and regulatory relations in the U.S. DTCC, which is owned by its
member firms, including investment banks, runs clearinghouses
for trading of U.S. stocks and bonds.  “She is a proven leader with extensive global operations,
finance and  capital markets  experience that will serve our
company well as we continue to strengthen our core businesses
and expand into new areas,” Bodson said in the statement.  Milrod was one of the top-ranking women at the bank and
spoke at the firm’s Women on Wall Street conference last year on
how to climb in large organizations.  “I hope they’ll be enough women in senior positions at the
top echelon of corporate America that they will bring up more
women and change the whole balance of the way we work,” Milrod
said in a Bloomberg Television interview in October. “We know
this hierarchical structure and the way we work today does not
work well for women. And if you fix it for women, we also know,
you fix it for everyone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephanie Ruhle  in  New York  at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  