-- Diving Into Health Care Is Dangerous to My Health
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-08-22T22:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/diving-into-health-care-is-dangerous-to-my-health.html
If you are anything like me, you
have spent the last 10 days listening to President  Barack Obama 
and his Republican challengers accuse each other of being the
meanest miser when it comes to denying health care to seniors.
Unless you are an actuary or have a fondness for, and facility
with, budget math, you were probably left wondering what and
whom to believe.  That’s the good news. The bad news is, nothing that has
been enacted (the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of
2010) or proposed (Republican Representative  Paul Ryan ’s “Path
to Prosperity”) addresses the fundamental problem plaguing the
U.S. health-care system: It is designed to manage disease rather
than promote wellness.  Where do Middle East potentates go when they get sick? The
U.S., of course. This country has the highest success rates when
it comes to treating disease.  America’s  life-expectancy rates , on the other hand, pale in
comparison with other developed and developing nations, even
though the U.S. outspends them by a huge margin (see below).
Imagine what the U.S. could do if it harnessed its resources and
talent and focused on disease prevention.  Saving Medicare  Some communities have already taken the initiative,
creating accountable care organizations (ACOs) that use an
integrated model for patient care. Cheshire Medical
Center/Dartmouth-Hitchcock Keene, for example, introduced
“ Vision 2020 ” in 2006 with the goal of making Cheshire County,
 New Hampshire , the U.S.’s healthiest community. Cheshire is one
of 32  pioneer ACOs  selected to test new models of health-care
delivery and payment -- paying for results, not volume -- as
provided in the Affordable Care Act. Medicare will eventually
pay ACOs a lump sum per patient, allowing providers to share in
any cost savings compared with traditional fee-for-service
plans.  The challenge of saving  Medicare  from insolvency in 2024
would be easier if seniors had lived healthier lives. It would
be a lot easier if the system corrected the perverse economic
incentives that reward doctors for unnecessary procedures.  “Nothing changes until the people giving the care change
the care,” says Don Berwick, administrator of the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services from 2010 to 2011. That requires
“redesigning the way care is given into an integrated system,
with primary care as the base.”  That point is hammered home in an independent film,
“ Escape Fire: The Fight to Rescue American Healthcare ,”
directed by Matthew Heineman and Susan Froemke, an official
selection at the 2012 Sundance Film Festival. The documentary
combines facts and figures with personal stories from doctors
and patients, and innovative ideas from leaders trying to
transform the industry.  The film title is a story in itself. It comes from a  1999
speech  that Berwick gave at the Institute for Healthcare
Improvement, a nonprofit organization in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , where he was president. In it, he compares saving
the  U.S. health-care system  to what has become standard practice
for fighting forest fires: intentionally setting fire to an area
to divert an oncoming blaze. This is known as an escape fire.  The analogy to health care? An out-of-control menace for
which there are simple, not easy, solutions.  Consider some statistics about U.S. health care from the
film, all from reputable sources:  -- The U.S. spends $2.7 trillion a year on health care; 30  percent of that is wasted and doesn’t improve health.  -- The average per-capita cost in the U.S. is $8,000; the  average for the developed world is $3,000.  -- About 187,000 people die annually from medical errors or  hospital infection, the third- leading cause of death   after  heart disease .  -- The U.S. spends $300 billion a year on pharmaceuticals.  -- Twenty percent of patients account for 80 percent of the  costs.  More than a third of adults and almost 17 percent of
children in the U.S. are  obese , a dramatic increase in the past
20 years, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. Obesity is a key risk factor in many preventable
causes of death, including heart disease. Without a shift in the
trend, which requires a change in lifestyles, the U.S. will
spend as much as $1 trillion a year in 2020 just treating the
consequences of obesity, one-fifth of all  health-care
expenditures .  Yes, there are things that can be done to reduce costs,
such as paying providers for outcomes -- low readmission rates,
for example -- not procedures. Making patients aware of the cost
of treatment will help at the margin, as economists like to say.
Because the lion’s share of medical costs is for the treatment
of chronic illness in the last two years of life, comparison
shopping for the cheapest provider isn’t really an option.  That’s why health care is somewhat immune to normal
competitive forces. For starters, “there are no markets in
health care,” says Craig Clark, a physician and lawyer who is a
partner at Radiology Consultants of  Iowa  in  Cedar Rapids . “It’s
like politics: It’s all local.”  Second, “the demand curve is not set by the patient,” he
says. The cost to the patient for an expensive procedure is
often a small co-pay of $20 to $40. Price, therefore, doesn’t
play its traditional role in consumer decision-making.  Third, as mentioned above, there is little relationship
between the quality of care and what the provider is paid.
Finally, the system itself encourages unnecessary treatments.
Hospitals buy up private practices so they “own” the doctors,
which means they “own” the patients, which means they control
the insurance payments, Clark says. Such a “monolithic delivery
model” perpetuates itself through self-referral within the
hospital-based system.  Health care is a complicated subject requiring experienced
professionals to come up with innovative solutions that can be
tested on a small scale before they are universally adopted.
Unfortunately,  time is running out .  Many folks seem thrilled Medicare has become the subject du
jour on the campaign trail. I’m not so sure. Health care seems
much too important to be left to the politicians.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why we still need  affirmative
action  and on why the Bundesbank should  put up or shut up ;  Susan
Crawford  on the consequences of the  Apple-Samsung  patent case;
 Ezra Klein  on  Romney’s vaporous Medicare  promise; Jonathan
Mahler on  football, concussions and ESPN ; William Silber on how
 Paul Volcker  restored the Fed’s  credibility on inflation ; Will
Wilkinson on how Paul Ryan can be a  Randist and a Catholic .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  