-- Health Care REIT to Acquire Sunrise for $845 Million
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-08-22T20:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/health-care-reit-to-acquire-sunrise-senior-living-in-cash-deal.html
Health Care REIT Inc. (HCN) , the third-
largest health-care real estate investment trust by market
value, agreed to acquire  Sunrise Senior Living Inc. (SRZ)  for about
$845 million to expand its assisted-living communities.  Health Care REIT will pay $14.50 a share in cash, a 62
percent premium over Sunrise’s closing share price of $8.93
yesterday. Sunrise has about 58.3 million shares outstanding,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The transaction
reflects a real estate value of about $1.9 billion, Toledo,
Ohio-based Health Care REIT said today in a statement.  Demand for assisted-living and senior housing is expected
to rise as the U.S.  population  ages. The number of residents
aged 65 and over will increase 79 percent through 2030, Health
Care REIT said in a quarterly regulatory filing, citing Census
Bureau data. The acquisition of McLean, Virginia-based Sunrise
will expand Health Care REIT’s presence in major markets such as
New York,  Los Angeles ,  Washington  and Philadelphia.  “Because of the expected wave of demand coming from
retiring baby boomers, senior housing should have strong
fundamental demand in the coming years,” Jeff Theiler, an
analyst with Green Street Advisors Inc. in  Newport Beach ,
 California , said in a telephone interview. “This is some of the
most aggressive pricing I’ve seen for a senior housing
transaction.”  U.S. health-care REITs have announced deals totaling $3.44
billion in the last 12 months at an average premium of about 13
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stock Surge  Sunrise shares jumped 60 percent to $14.26 at the close in
New York. Health Care REIT fell 2.7 percent to $58.14.  The acquisition includes Sunrise’s 20 wholly owned senior-
housing communities in the U.S and  Canada  as well as the
company’s interest in joint ventures that own 105 communities,
27 of them in the U.K.  “There are very few opportunities of this scale and
quality,” George L. Chapman, Health Care REIT’s chairman and
chief executive officer, said on a conference call with
analysts. “Senior housing is undervalued relative to other
classes of real estate.”  After the transaction, Health Care REIT will own more than
58,000 units of senior housing, according to the statement. The
deal increases the share of the landlord’s business that isn’t
dependent on government reimbursements and lowers the average
age of its properties to 12 years from 13 years, according to a
presentation on the company’s website.  ‘Strong’ Locations  The decline in average age, along with a high revenue per
occupied room, suggests Health Care REIT is getting “new
properties with the right amenities in good, strong locations,”
John Sheehan, an analyst with  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis , said in
a telephone interview.  The Sunrise deal is conditioned on the approval of its
 shareholders  and is scheduled to be completed in the first half
of 2013.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc.
served as financial advisers on the transaction, and Wachtell
Lipton Rosen & Katz was the legal adviser to Sunrise, according
to the statement.  Health Care REIT completed $1.1 billion of acquisitions in
the second quarter, including a $509.5 million deal with
Chartwell Seniors Housing for properties in Canada, according to
an Aug. 6 report from JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by
Michael Mueller.  HCP Inc. (HCP)  and Ventas Inc. are the two largest health-care
REITs by market value, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  