-- New Report Finds Syrian Civilians Facing Increased Danger
-- B y   F r a n c i s   H a r r i s   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-08-23T07:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/lebanese-premier-warns-of-syrian-spillover-as-gunbattles-flare.html
Amnesty International  said a 10-day
visit to the embattled Syrian city of Aleppo found that many of
the victims of government air and artillery strikes have been
children, and others were waiting in long lines outside bakeries
to buy scarce bread.  “The use of imprecise weapons, such as unguided bombs,
artillery shells and mortars by government forces has
dramatically increased the danger for civilians,” Donatella
Rovera, an Amnesty International senior crisis response adviser
who recently returned from Aleppo, said today in a press release
accompanying a report by the London-based  human-rights  group.  “The overwhelming majority of victims were killed in air
strikes and artillery attacks by government forces,” although
in some cases the source of an attack was unclear, the group
said. “Opposition fighters, while mostly fighting with short-
range light weapons, have at times also used imprecise or
indiscriminate weapons (such as mortars and home-made rockets)
that equally pose a danger to civilians,” it said.  International efforts have failed to halt a 17-month
uprising against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad that according
to the opposition Syrian Observatory for Human Rights has
claimed more than 23,000 lives. United Nations military monitors
are leaving the country after the two warring sides failed to
observe an April cease-fire and UN envoy  Kofi Annan  resigned
this month.  ‘Sharp Increase’  The Amnesty report also highlights what the group called a
“sharp increase in extrajudicial and summary executions of
civilians not involved in the conflict” by Assad’s forces.
“Bodies of mostly young men, usually handcuffed and shot in the
head, have been frequently found dumped near the headquarters of
the Air Force Intelligence which is completely controlled by
government forces,” according to the group.  In fighting yesterday, 129 people were killed, including 40
in the suburbs of Damascus, the Syrian Observatory said by e-
mail. Aleppo is Syria’s most populous city.  In a statement late yesterday, British Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s office said he had discussed the situation in Syria
with U.S. President  Barack Obama  and French President  Francois Hollande .  ‘Credible Opposition’  “As with Hollande, the prime minister and Obama discussed
how to build on the support already given to the opposition to
end the appalling violence in Syria and bring about stability,”
according to the statement. “Both said that they wanted to see
a credible opposition and hoped that the opposition would use
their upcoming meeting in Cairo to show real unity of purpose
and coherence in working towards transition.”  Cameron and Hollande also “agreed that  France  and the U.K.
would work more closely to identify how they could bolster the
opposition and help a potential transitional Syrian government
after the inevitable fall of Assad,” Cameron’s office said.  Lebanon’s Prime Minister Najib Mikati yesterday urged
national unity to insulate his country from “the burning fires
all around it,” after gun battles in his hometown of Tripoli.  Mikati expressed concern over “attempts to involve Lebanon
more and more” in the conflict in  Syria , according to his
website. All parties should consider themselves responsible for
the “bloody events in Tripoli” and the “consequences
resulting from killing, destruction and bloodshed that will not
only impact the city but Lebanon as a whole,” he said.  The remarks came a day after seven people were killed and
more than 70 wounded in Tripoli in fighting between supporters
and opponents of Assad, the latest sign that the violence in
Syria is spilling into its neighbor.  The official National News Agency said yesterday that a
cease-fire agreement in Tripoli was reached after a meeting of
clerics, lawmakers and leaders of armed groups.  Lebanon’s army urged the country’s leaders to refrain from
“inflaming” the differences among the parties and using the
“tense regional situation to settle internal scores.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francis Harris in London at 
 fharris4@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  