-- Heineken Sees Stagnant Annual Profit Amid European Slump
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-08-22T08:59:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/heineken-reports-first-half-profit-that-misses-estimates.html
Heineken NV (HEIA)  said full-year profit
will be stagnant as demand in western Europe stumbles,
highlighting the Dutch brewer’s need to win the battle for full
control of  Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB)   Heineken  expects  net profit before exceptional items and
amortization and excluding acquisitions and currency swings to
be “broadly in line” with the the 1.58 billion euros ($2
billion) reported in 2011. The shares  fell  as much as 5.6
percent, the most in a year, as some analysts questioned whether
it could meet that goal.  “The full-year guidance looks, quite honestly, pretty
optimistic, particularly since western Europe isn’t going to get
any better,”  Melissa Earlam , an  analyst  at UBS AG in London,
said today. Profit on that basis fell 4 percent in the first six
months.  Brewers including  SABMiller (SAB)  Plc and  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) 
are expanding in emerging markets as they wrestle with declines
in Europe as the economic crisis drags on  consumer confidence 
and a wet summer damps demand for ale. Heineken has sought to
offset the drop with cost-cutting measures including brewery
closures.  Heineken  dropped  as much as 2.49 euros to 42.01 euros in
Amsterdam trading today, paring its annual gain to 19 percent.
SABMiller has advanced 23 percent this year, while AB InBev is
up 38 percent.  Beer Battle  The maker of Amstel beer raised its offer last week to gain
control over APB after a month-long tussle to prevent a company
connected to a Thai billionaire from disrupting its hold.
Heineken’s volume of beer sold in the first half rose 8.3
percent in  Asia , the company’s fastest regional pace, while it
dropped 2.9 percent in western Europe, Heineken’s biggest
market.  “The business of APB provides direct access to two of the
world’s most exciting growth regions for beer –-  Southeast Asia 
and the Pacific Islands, and  China ,” Chief Executive Officer
Jean-Francois  van Boxmeer  said. “We are working towards a swift
completion of the  transaction .”  Heineken on Aug. 17 said it offered to buy its joint
venture partner Fraser & Neave Ltd.’s 40 percent stake in Asia
Pacific Breweries for about S$5.6 billion, or S$53 a share.
Heineken, which already owns 42 percent of the south-east Asian
brewer, had previously offered S$50 a share for the brewer of
Tiger beer.  APB Integration  The company will focus on the integration of APB and
growing brands in the region after the acquisition is completed,
Van Boxmeer said. Heineken theoretically halts acquisitions when
the company’s net  debt  to Ebitda ratio tops 2.5 times, he said.
Heineken’s net debt to Ebitda ratio could increase to about 3
times on the APB purchase, according to estimates by Nomura.  Heineken, which controls about 8.8 percent of the global
beer market, has the smallest  emerging-markets  presence of the
world’s big three brewers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. About 37 percent of operating income came from
western Europe last year.  First-half earnings before interest and taxes, excluding
some items, were 1.27 billion euros, Heineken  said.  That
compared with the 1.31 billion-euro average estimate for profit
on that basis in a Bloomberg survey of 10 analysts. The figure
represents a so-called organic decrease of 5.5 percent, compared
with the median estimate of 9 analysts for a 0.5 percent
increase.  Europe Slide  Earnings slid 14 percent in western Europe, Heineken said.
It announced a new savings program in February, focused on more
efficient global purchasing of commodities and services, to save
500 million euros by 2014. The company had 85 million euros of
pretax savings in the first half, led by reductions in  Europe .  Production costs will rise 8 percent this year from an
earlier forecast of 6 percent, after the price of goods to
produce its beer increased 6.9 percent in the first half.  Revenue rose 5 percent to 8.78 billion euros. Analysts
 estimated  sales of 8.81 billion euros. On an organic basis, it
rose 4.5 percent compared with a 4.4 percent estimate, and
consolidated beer volume increased 2.8 percent versus a 3.2
percent estimate.  The Desperados brewer said it gained share in the U.S., the
world’s second-biggest beer market, and increased volume in
 Mexico , where it bought the beer operations of Fomento Economico
Mexicano SAB, or Femsa, in 2010. The company achieved targeted
cost cuts from the Femsa acquisition of 150 million euros, ahead
of schedule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  