-- Electronic Arts' PopCap Games Cuts Jobs, May Close Office
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-08-22T02:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/electronic-arts-popcap-games-cuts-jobs-may-close-office.html
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) ’s PopCap Games,
which makes titles played on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s website, fired
about 10 percent of its staff as it moves to address a consumer
shift toward mobile and free-to-play games.  The company eliminated 50 jobs in North America and also is
evaluating shuttering its Dublin, Ireland, studio unless it can
improve profitability, co-founder John Vechey said today in an
 blog  post to almost 500 employees.  “In the past year, we’ve seen a dramatic change in the way
people play and pay for games,” Vechey wrote. “Free-to-play,
social and mobile games have exploded in popularity.”  PopCap, whose titles include “Bejeweled,” was acquired
for $750 million last year to help Electronic Arts compete with
 Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the biggest producer of Facebook games. Since then,
mobile platforms and so-called free-to-play sites have gained
popularity with casual game players.  Zynga is grappling with similar issues. The company
announced the departure of Chief Operating Officer John Schappert on Aug. 8, after he was stripped of some
responsibilities in a reorganization aimed at reviving growth
and making more money from mobile services.  PopCap, which also makes games played on computers, game
consoles and mobile devices, expects to end the year with
roughly the same number of employees as at the start, after it
“hired aggressively this past year,” Vechey wrote in the blog.  San Francisco-based Zynga’s stock has dropped 68 percent
this year while shares in Electronic Arts, based in Redwood
City,  California , have declined 34 percent to $13.56.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  