-- Qihoo Jumps as Fed Stimulus Outlook Boosts ADRs: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-08-22T21:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/elong-slumps-as-adrs-tumble-on-stimulus-doubts-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  rose for the first
time in five days after Qihoo 360 Technology Co.’s outlook for
the third quarter beat estimates and China Telecom Corp.’s
second-quarter profit exceeded projections on new iphone users.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. advanced 0.4 percent to 90.08
yesterday. Internet software developer Qihoo surged 16 percent,
extending a three-day rally. China Telecom, the country’s
biggest fixed-line carrier, jumped the most in a year. Airlines
declined after Credit Suisse Group AG reduced its recommendation
on the sector.  Fifty-one percent of the 35 companies that have  reported
earnings  since mid-July beat analysts’ estimates, data compiled
by Bloomberg showed. Minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s last
gathering released yesterday showed that “many members”
believed more monetary accommodation would be needed fairly soon
unless the pace of the economic recover picks up. China’s
Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said yesterday adjustments to  interest
rates  and banks’ reserve requirements are still possible after
adding cash in open-market operations.  “Everything, including commodities and stocks, reacted to
the Fed’s minutes,” Michael Gayed, the chief investment
strategist at Pension Partners LLC, which advises on more than
$150 million in assets, said by phone yesterday from  New York .
“It just confirmed the notion that the Fed is looking to step
in once again. The world is still awaiting some aggressive
actions from  China .”  China ETF, S&P 500  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., was little changed at $34.28
after sliding in previous five days. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of the biggest U.S. shares was also little changed at
1,413.49, erasing earlier losses, after the Fed minutes were
released.  The Fed’s document showed it “will do anything to maintain
growth,” Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at Oberweis Asset
Management Inc., said by phone yesterday from Lisle,  Illinois .
“In China, we really haven’t seen the type of government
involvement that we would need to make growth more certain.”  Qihoo’s ADRs jumped 16 percent to to $24.58, adding its
gains this week to 33 percent, the biggest three-day rally since
its U.S. initial public offering in March 2011.  The Beijing-based company said on Aug. 21  third-quarter
revenue  will rise as much as 73 percent from a year earlier to
$82 million, after jumping 107 percent to $72.8 million in the
previous three months. The company’s estimate beat the average
$80.3 million projected by seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Strong Debut’  Qihoo, which develops computer security software and
desktop products, started a new search engine last week,
entering a market that is 80 percent dominated by Baidu Inc. The
company is looking to be a “major player” in China’s online
search market in the long term, Chief Executive Officer Zhou
Hongyi said on a conference call Aug. 21.  “We are impressed by the strong debut of Qihoo’s search
and believe it has significant opportunity in China’s large
search market,” Henry Guo, an analyst at ThinkEquity LLC, wrote
in a note yesterday. “Qihoo is well-positioned and we see
significant monetization potential going forward.”  ADRs of China Telecom climbed 9 percent to a five-month
high of $56.24. The ADRs, each representing 100 underlying
shares, traded 4.6 percent  above  its Hong Kong shares, the
highest premium since November.  The Beijing-based phone operator’s second-quarter net
income fell 10 percent to 4.55 billion  yuan  ($716 million), from
a restated 5.05 billion yuan a year earlier, it said in a
statement yesterday. That exceeded the 4.4 billion yuan median
of seven analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Asian Airlines  China Eastern Airlines Corp., the nation’s second largest
carrier, slid 2.6 percent to a one-month low of $16.38. China
Southern Airlines Co.,  Asia ’s biggest carrier by passenger
number, dipped 1.3 percent to $23.52, the lowest level since
July 12.  Credit Suisse yesterday cut the rating on the Asian  airline
industry  to underweight, citing rising jet fuel prices and
currency depreciations. It lowered price targets for the two
Chinese airlines.  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) , China’s largest online travel
agency, advanced 5.8 percent to $15.98, the highest level since
July 5. Its smaller competitor  Elong Inc. (LONG)  retreated 1.4 percent
to $15.73.  Ctrip announced last month a $500 million products sales
plan to boost its market share and Elong followed, joining a
price war among Chinese online travel agencies, The China
National Radio  reported  on its website yesterday, citing ads on
the companies’ websites and social media platforms.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 0.5 percent to
2,107.71 yesterday, the most in a week. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies slumped 1.3 percent to a
two-week low of 9,698.83.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  