-- Emerging-Market Stocks Retreat on Europe, China Demand Outlook
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-08-22T21:29:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/emerging-market-stocks-retreat-most-in-3-weeks-as-exporters-drop.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped for a
third time in four days as a wider-than-estimated Japanese trade
deficit fueled concern a slowing global economy will curb export
earnings even as Federal Reserve meeting minutes showed many
policy makers backed more monetary easing soon.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slid 0.6 percent to 969.43,
the most since Aug. 13.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
largest maker of computer memory chips, fell to a two-week low
in Seoul after  Dell Inc. (DELL)  cut its profit forecast. Hyundai Heavy
Industries Co., the world’s largest shipbuilder, sank the most
in a month. Brazil’s Bovespa stock index gained 0.8 percent,
with homebuilder Brookfield Incorporacoes SA leading the gains.  Japan’s  trade deficit  widened in July as shipments to the
European Union fell 25 percent from a year earlier, the biggest
decline since October 2009, while those to China slipped 12
percent, data today showed. The developing nations’ gauge
trimmed its losses after records of the Federal Open Market
Committee’s July 31-Aug. 1 gathering showed that “many
members” believed more monetary accommodation would be needed
fairly soon unless the pace of the economic recovery picks up.  ‘Weak Growth’  “The Japanese trade data reinforces the idea that we are
seeing recession in Europe and increasingly weak growth in
China,”  Alec Young , a global equity strategist at S&P Capital
IQ, said by phone from New York. “Risk assets like emerging
market equities tend to trade on confidence in global growth.”  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, was little
changed at 40.41. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, declined 2.4 percent.  Brookfield added 8.9 percent.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  meet tomorrow to discuss Europe’s fiscal
crisis, and both are set to talk separately with Greece’s Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras later this week. Concessions are
possible for  Greece  if Samaras shows a willingness to meet the
main targets set out in his country’s bailout program, a senior
lawmaker with Merkel’s government said yesterday.  Sales of existing homes in the U.S. rose 2.3 percent in
July to a 4.47 million annual rate, according to data from the
National Association of Realtors. The median forecast of 73
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  called for a rise to a
4.51 million pace.  Outbound Shipments  The 21 nations in MSCI’s developing-nations gauge send
about 30 percent of their exports to the European Union on
average, data compiled by the World Trade Organization show.  The index has increased 5.8 percent this year, compared
with an 8.9 percent gain by the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed
nations. The gauge of developing nations trades at 10.4 times
estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of
13.1, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Vietnam’s benchmark VN Index slumped for a second day,
losing 1.6 percent. The gauge plunged the most in almost four
years yesterday as Vietnam’s arrest of Nguyen Duc Kien, the
founder of several banks, sparked concern about the
vulnerability of the country’s financial system.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
traded in Hong Kong closed 1.3 percent lower. The Shanghai
Composite Index lost 0.5 percent, the most in a week.  Dongfang Electric sank 4.8 percent, its steepest drop since
July 24, after saying first-half net income fell 19 percent.
 China BlueChemical (3983)  plunged 5.5 percent as first-half profit slid
to 908.5 million  yuan  ($143 million).  Samsung, Lenovo  “The Chinese economy is only at the beginning of a harsh
winter,” Zhang Hongxia, chairman of Weiqiao Textile Co.,
China’s largest cotton-textile maker , said in an interview in
Hong Kong on Aug. 20. “China now is facing a situation where
everything from coal to steel inventories are piling up.”  Samsung Electronics fell 1.4 percent in Seoul, a fourth day
of losses.  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s second-biggest maker
of personal computers, lost 2.7 percent in Hong Kong.  Dell forecast third-quarter  revenue  will drop 2 percent to
5 percent from the prior three-month period.  Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175)  tumbled 5.9 percent in Hong
Kong as it forecast a “more challenging” second half of the
year.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s largest mobile-phone operator,
sank 3.8 percent after Credit Suisse downgraded the stock to
underperform.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 319, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global  Index. (VXEEM)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  