-- Empire State Building IPO Challenged by Legacy Investors
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-08-22T21:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/empire-state-building-ipo-challenged-by-legacy-investors.html
Al Weiner’s stake in  New York ’s
Empire State Building came to him by way of his grandfather’s
death in a 1950 train crash in Richmond Hill, Queens. His
grandmother sued the Long Island Rail Road, and her lawyer was
Lawrence Wien, a family friend.  The money from the settlement made the Weiners a natural
call when Wien was reaching out to his network of friends and
business associates in the early 1960s to buy what was then the
world’s tallest skyscraper. The family and more than two
thousand others purchased shares of the Empire State Building
under a syndication orchestrated by the lawyer and his partner,
real estate investor Harry Helmsley.  Half a century later, that complex ownership structure may
stand between Wien’s successors,  Peter Malkin  and his son
Anthony, and their plans to form a real estate investment trust
and take the Empire State Building  public . The Malkins, who need
80 percent approval from the 3,300 units held by the legacy
investors, are facing opposition by stakeholders like Weiner,
who say they will be shortchanged in the deal and lose a steady
income stream that is poised to jump in value, sacrificing
safety for the vacillations of the  stock market .  “My grandma said don’t ever sell these,” said Weiner, 53,
who runs a business out of Jericho, New York, that sells
artisanal cheeses to restaurants. “The checks come in like
clockwork.”  Creating ‘Confusion’  Peter and Anthony Malkin, Wien’s son-in-law and grandson,
respectively, have taken notice. The entity they control, Malkin
Holdings LLC, has filed four documents with the Securities and
Exchange Commission in the last month disclosing efforts to
reach out to stakeholders and saying that the dissident holders’
conclusions can’t be relied upon.  “We believe certain individuals are creating an
environment of confusion through incorrect statements about”
their company and the proposed transaction, the Malkins wrote in
an Aug. 6 letter to investors. Distributions probably will
increase more over time as part of the deal than if the Empire
State Building was left as a standalone investment, they said.  The Malkins declined to comment for this story because of
the quiet period for pending IPOs.  REIT Formation  They are seeking to form the REIT, to be known as  Empire
State Realty Trust Inc. (ESB) , to gain greater efficiencies and access
to capital, and because the Helmsley estate is liquidating its
holdings following the death of Harry Helmsley’s wife, Leona. In
addition to the 102-story tower, the REIT would include 18 other
properties, ranging from  midtown Manhattan  office buildings to a
development site in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , that would be added
to the legacy investors’ holdings.  The Malkins’ valuation firm,  Duff & Phelps Corp. (DUF) , estimates
the value of the entities that hold all the buildings to be
included in the REIT at $3.99 billion. About $2.5 billion is
from the Empire State Building.  The share sale stands to be the highest-profile REIT IPO
since the 1990s, when big office landlords such as  Boston
Properties Inc. (BXP)  and  SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG)  went public, said
Lawrence Longua, director of the REIT Center at New York
University’s Schack Institute of Real Estate.  “There have been a number of IPOs but nothing of this
scale or visibility,” he said. “This is in a class by
itself.”  $330,000 Value  Small investors such as Weiner own stakes in an entity
called Empire State Building Associates LLC, which holds the
deed to the Empire State Building. The investors are entitled to
about half of the tower’s value -- one of the points of
contention -- because the other half is assigned to the
building’s sublease holder, according to an evaluation by Duff &
Phelps.  The firm’s appraisal of the Empire State Building at $2.5
billion indicates that each of the 3,300 units, priced at
$10,000 in 1960, would be worth about $330,000 today.  The small investors may lose close to half that amount
after taxes should they take shares of the REIT, and then would
have trouble finding an alternative place for their money that
offers the same dependable  returns , said Richard Edelman, a
grandson of an original investor who receives payments as part
of a trust. The Malkins have come up with an alternative to
address the tax implications.  Phone Calls  Edelman runs a website,  www.empirestatebuilding
investors.com , that tracks the IPO process. He, Weiner and
several others have formed a loose group of unitholders who have
been telephoning and e-mailing investors. Edelman estimates they
have reached about half the stakeholders, and said they have
encountered enough opposition to block the REIT deal.  “I speak to people one on one, just trying to educate them
on the investment and the goodness that it’s been for the last
51 years, and the fact that this might not be the best deal for
us at this point in time,” Weiner said. “If they agree, that’s
great. If they don’t, they have that right to do so. We’re
trying to be mensches about this.”  Many of the investors are retirees in their 80s and 90s, or
are second- and third-generation holders like Edelman and
Weiner. Many of them don’t have computers, so the group sent
them postcards inviting them to call a toll-free 800 number
answered by a live operator.  Many investors regard their stake as an “heirloom” to be
passed down to the next generation, Edelman said.  ‘Human Aspect’  “They were the Jewish middle class, who knew these guys
through one relationship or another,” said Benjamin Polen, a
principal with property-investment adviser Polestar Realty and
until recently a senior research associate at  Baruch College ’s
Newman Real Estate Institute in  Manhattan . “They were not
sophisticated investors. There’s an interesting human aspect to
this story.”  Another group of investors has sued, alleging “an
imbalance and disparity of knowledge and economic power”
between the Malkin and Helmsley interests and the small
investors. Five separate lawsuits were consolidated into a
single class action on June 27 in New York State Supreme Court
in Manhattan. The lawsuit is “baseless,” Hugh Burns, a Malkin
Holdings spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The Malkins first filed plans for the IPO in February. The
REIT application is undergoing review by the Securities and
Exchange Commission. There is no specific timetable for its
approval, or for when the share sale would occur.  Resolving ‘Overhang’  “I’ve been in other IPOs where there’s litigation and
there’s incredible pressure to resolve it, because you can’t
take a company public with that kind of overhang,” said Boris
Dolgonos, a partner in the New York office of the law firm  Jones
Day , who has worked on several share sales and isn’t involved in
the Empire State Building IPO. “Whenever there’s any kind of
dissent or litigation the sponsor wants to have that resolved
before taking it public.”  The IPO plan has supporters among the legacy investors.  “To me it’s like a bonanza, like it fell out of the sky,”
said Leon Jonas, 85, a retiree in  Delray Beach ,  Florida , and a
$10,000 original investor. “I would welcome it in a minute.”  Malkin Holdings, in its most recent revised offering
statement, said benefits to going public include “liquidity,
enhanced property diversification, increased growth
opportunities, enhanced operating and financial abilities.” It
also cited governance under the standards for a regulated public
company, with a board of independent directors, except for one
member of  management , Anthony Malkin, who would be chairman,
chief executive officer and president. It would also create a
more straightforward corporate structure.  Proxy Service  “We are aware that you may have received mailings and/or
phone calls from individuals offering to guide investors through
the proposed transaction” and “raising questions about our
proposed transaction,” Malkin Holdings said in a July 23 letter
to investors. “We suggest that you rely on our SEC filings, and
letters” on the planned deal “rather than on these
individuals’ interpretations.”  The Malkins have hired a proxy service, Mackenzie Partners
Inc. of New York, to, among other duties, to assist them in
reaching out to investors and fielding incoming calls from them.  The calls to investors explain the benefits of REIT status,
including enhanced liquidity and a regular quarterly dividend,
according to a script filed with the SEC.  REITs (BBREIT)  are required to
distribute at least 90 percent of their taxable income to
shareholders.  Combination Benefits  “Consolidation reduces your present risk in relying on a
single building, and provides a broader base for stable
operations to pay you quarterly dividends,” Malkin Holdings
said in its Aug. 6 letter. “We believe the potential benefits
of the combined portfolio are greater than for ESB standing
alone.”  Once approved by the SEC, the offering statement will
provide estimated dividends for the first year after the IPO,
according to the Malkins’s Aug. 6 letter.  “Based on our experience with all the properties in the
proposed consolidation, we believe your protection against
downside risk and your potential for increased distributions
will be greater as a REIT investor than as an ESBA
participant,” they wrote.  Tax Adjustment  The Malkins have also addressed complaints about the tax
consequences, offering investors “operating units” that would
defer the gain instead of cash or shares. The units could be
traded through a national securities exchange and give investors
“the exact same tax treatment” that the Malkins would receive
for their interests.  Edelman, an expatriate  New Yorker  who lives in Solana
Beach,  California , says that most unitholders want their stakes
for the dividends, and don’t need to be able to easily buy and
sell shares.  “People who own the building own it for income,” he said.
“That’s important to understand. There’s only a small minority
who want liquidity.”  Bert Jacobson, a $5,000 original investor who now lives in
 Beverly Hills , California, said his annual returns ran as high
as $2,500. In recent years it has dwindled to about $50 a month,
since the Malkins embarked on a $590 million renovation program
for the tower, he said.  Unitholders received $1,179 in 2011 per $10,000 originally
invested, according to the building’s annual report. In 2008,
that amount was $5,230.  Lease Signings  Returns may be poised to increase as the renovations at the
Empire State Building attract more tenants. Last month, the
professional networking site  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  agreed to take an
additional 10,400 square feet (966 square meters) in the tower,
bringing its space to 42,400 square feet. In May, Coty Inc., the
beauty-products company, added 120,000 square feet, bringing its
occupancy to almost 320,000 square feet.  The building’s office space was about two-thirds leased as
of March 31, according to the offering document. Its retail
space was 89 percent rented.  The Empire State Building’s net operating income should
rise an average of 19 percent annually through 2017, to $179.5
million from this year’s $76.9 million, according to a cash flow
analysis in the filing.  Martin Cowan, a retired tax attorney from  New Rochelle , New
York, and a former Wien partner who is among the investors
opposing the deal, is combing through thousands of pages of
regulatory filings, and more than 50 years of governing
documents, to analyze the deal. He sent a letter to the SEC in
June saying that investors were at risk of a “substantial
reduction in income” if they voted for the REIT.  Transaction Costs  Since then, the Malkins have amended their proposal twice,
and Cowan is recalculating his numbers. He continues to say that
transaction costs, including transfer taxes and underwriting
fees, may dilute investor returns.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said he couldn’t comment on
information received from the public.  Another issue for the investors is how much of the value of
the building the investors should receive. The Malkins said in
their filings the holder of the sublease, which was historically
controlled by the Helmsleys, is entitled to a roughly 50-50
split with Empire State Building Associates LLC, the holder of
the master lease, and since 2002, the owner of the building. The
small investors who bought into Wien and Helmsley’s 1961
syndication, and their successors, all hold interests in Empire
State Building Associates.  Malkin Payout  In the July 23 letter, the Malkins set the “total amount
to be received by all interest holders” in the Associates
company at $1.21 billion. Of that amount, the Malkins are
entitled to $188.9 million, they said, citing a valuation by
Duff & Phelps.  Investors like Edelman say there is no documentation
backing up the idea that the Associates should receive only half
the value, and want to know why they aren’t entitled to a
proportional share of the other $1.3 billion that the Empire
State Building is worth. That value would accrue to the Malkins
and the Helmsley estate as owners of the firm that controls the
sublease -- known as Empire State Building Co. LLC -- when it is
liquidated to allow the Helmsleys to cash out.  The Malkins have a 6.7 percent interest in the sublease
holder, according to the offering statement. The Helmsley estate
owns 63.8 percent.  Joint Venture  The Malkins said in the IPO filing that the splitting of
the $2.5 billion is “based on representations of the
supervisor” -- Malkin Holdings -- “as to the original intent
to treat the two tier entities as equivalent to a joint
venture.” Empire State Building Co. is entitled to equal
allocation because it has historically shared capital and
financing costs, according to the document.  The Malkins’ proposed $188.9 million payout from its stake
in the Associates entity includes $110.6 million of payments
called “override interests” in the documents, because they
override the original terms of the leases. They are payments
investors agreed to make to the Malkins for certain services,
including profits they would earn for future management work,
and for a possible future “capital transaction.”  Edelman and Cowan say that was interpreted by investors to
mean a possible sale of the building to outsiders, not an IPO in
which the Malkins would remain at the helm. Those who accepted
the override will receive the equivalent of $330,850 per unit,
according to the offering statement. The minority who didn’t
approve the override would receive $366,500, a $35,650
difference. Those numbers could change depending on the proceeds
from the IPO.  Override Approvals  In a July 23 letter, the Malkins told investors the
overrides “were approved by you or by the investor from whom
you acquired or inherited your interests.” The interests were
valued by Duff & Phelps “under the same valuation methodology
used for all investors.”  The investor group may be underestimating the value of REIT
status, said Polestar’s Polen. Large REITs have access to
unsecured debt, while closely held real estate companies
generally have to depend on property-specific mortgages for
deals, enabling REITs to move quicker than their rivals to
acquire properties, he said.  “The REIT structure in our day and age is preferable to
partnership structures, which are kind of anachronistic,” Polen
said.  Since the beginning of 2011, 13 real estate investment
trusts have gone public in the U.S., raising a combined $2.9
billion. The shares have gained an average of 7 percent from
their IPO dates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They
have an average 12-month dividend yield of 5 percent, the data
show.  “I have to maybe give Peter credit for at least trying to
pull this thing into an IPO, but it’s got so many moving parts
and so many people involved,” said Longua of NYU’s Schack
Institute. “I don’t know how he’s going to do it.”  (The class action is Leon Meyers, et al., v. Empire State
Realty Trust Inc., 650607/2012, New York State Supreme Court --
Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  