-- Tencent Partners With TCL for Web-Browsing TV in China
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-08-27T12:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/tencent-to-offer-tv-in-china-to-expand-its-online-reach.html
(Corrects to say Tencent provides software for device in
first paragraph, sales date in last paragraph in story published
Aug. 23.)  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s
biggest Internet company, will provide software for a flat-
screen TV made by  TCL Multimedia Technology Holdings Ltd. (1070)  that
allows viewers to access online games, shopping and videos.  This is the first time Tencent collaborated with an
appliance maker, and the company will continue to work with
device manufacturers, Tencent Chief Executive Officer Pony Ma
said in Shenzhen yesterday. The 26-inch TV allows access to Web
services using cloud computing technology.  Tencent has bolstered collaboration with technology
companies including  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  and  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) ,
adding games and services to counter competition from Chinese
rivals such as  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  and Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. Growth
in online-game sales and video advertising revenue helped
Tencent increase second-quarter profit 32 percent, the Shenzhen-
based company said last week.  “The company is working on ways to get its games played
across a range of devices, from computers, smartphones and other
terminals,” Dundas Deng, who rates Tencent buy at Guotai Junan
Securities in Shenzhen, said before the announcement. “Tencent
has previously avoided getting into the hardware market, and
they are spreading the risks by working with TCL.”  Tencent rose 1.1 percent to HK$248 at the close in Hong
Kong trading today. The stock has advanced 59 percent this year,
the  second-biggest gainer  on the city’s  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)  TCL
Multimedia rose 9.9 percent.  Online Games  Tencent increased sales of online games 53 percent to 5.57
billion  yuan  ($877 million) in the second quarter, accounting
for more than half its revenue. Sales of video ads helped boost
online advertising sales by 72 percent to 880 million yuan, the
company said.  Last month, Tencent said it will offer Activision’s “Call
of Duty” game in China. Zynga has introduced a Chinese version
of its CityVille game through Tencent’s platform.  In April, TCL Multimedia started selling a television with
cloud-computing technology.  TCL Communication Technology
Holdings Ltd. (2618) , a sister company that makes handsets, also offers
tablet computers.  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , China’s biggest maker of personal
computers, started selling so-called smart TVs in May.  Android Based  Tencent is stepping up development of services including
the Mobile QQ and Weixin messaging tools for users of
smartphones and tablets such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad, as
well as devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.  Baidu, China’s biggest search-engine company, said in May
it will offer a smartphone that supports cloud technology with
manufacturer Sichuan Changhong Electric Co. In September last
year, Dell Inc. agreed to produce smartphones running Baidu
software for users in China.  Alibaba, China’s biggest e-commerce company, said in June
it will offer a smartphone with partner Haier Group.  The TV, named Ice Screen, uses Google’s Android, and will
be available for ordering this month for 1,999 yuan, according
to information released at the product event organized by
Tencent and TCL.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  