-- Merkel Signals She’ll Hear Samaras Request for More Time
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-08-22T15:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/merkel-says-she-ll-discuss-greek-plea-for-more-time-with-samaras.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
signaled that she’s willing to discuss a Greek request for more
time to meet the terms of its international rescue, leaving the
door open to potential concessions.  Merkel, responding to a reporter’s question in the Moldovan
capital Chisinau today, declined to discuss the request publicly
before meeting with Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras in
Berlin on Aug. 24, saying she’d “have the opportunity to
communicate directly” with him on the matter then.  “We won’t find solutions on Friday,” Merkel said,
reiterating that leaders must await a report being drawn up by
the so-called troika of Greece’s international creditors: the
 European Central Bank , the European Commission and the
 International Monetary Fund . “We will wait for the troika’s
report and then we’ll take decisions,” she said.  Merkel’s comments suggest a thaw in relations between
Germany and  Greece  after Greek publications drew Nazi-era
comparisons with its treatment during the debt crisis and German
newspaper Bild called for Greece to be expelled from the euro.
German officials have said in recent days that concessions are
possible for Greece so long as Samaras shows a willingness to
meet the main targets set out in his country’s bailout program.  Greek 10-year bonds advanced today, pushing the yield on
the securities to the lowest in more than three months. The rate
declined 38 basis points to 23.81 percent, the least since May
10. That still compares with about 1.46 percent for equivalent
German debt.  ‘More Air’  Samaras used an interview published today in Bild,
 Germany ’s best-selling newspaper, to call for more time to carry
out policy changes to address his country’s debt woes, saying
that granting an extension “doesn’t necessarily mean more
money.” Greece’s governing coalition favors an extension of its
fiscal adjustment program by two years to 2016.  “All we want is a little more air to breathe to get the
economy going and increase government revenue,” Samaras told
Bild before a meeting in  Athens  with Luxembourg Prime Minister
Jean-Claude Juncker, who heads the group of euro-area finance
ministers. Juncker is also meeting with Greek Finance Minister
Yannis Stournaras.  Greek Options  As well as granting more time, options for concessions to
Greece include front-loading aid payments, lowering the  interest
rate  or extending maturities on loans and pushing for a second
debt writedown, this time focusing on bonds held by public
institutions, notably the ECB.  Juncker said a decision on Greece won’t be made before
October, he told RTL Television Luxembourg in an interview
posted on the government’s website.  Samaras, seeking to persuade  Europe ’s policy makers to
continue the aid payments needed to keep Greece in the euro,
travels to Paris on Aug. 25 for talks with French President
 Francois Hollande . Hollande is due in Berlin tomorrow to meet
with Merkel.  Hollande “will be watchful to make sure the integrity of
the euro zone is maintained” in his talks with Merkel, French
government spokeswoman Najat Vallaud-Belkacem told reporters in
Paris today. “Greece must respect its engagements. At the same
time, we must give it prospects for growth.”  Future of Europe  In the European Union, “it’s not just about economic
questions, but about deeply political questions and thus also
about the future of Europe as a whole,” Merkel said. “That’s
the spirit with which I approach talks with the French president
as well.” The euro hasn’t overcome “mistakes” made at its
creation, she said. “So I’m tackling this in the knowledge that
we have to succeed, that every partner has to meet its
obligations.”  Samaras told Bild that his government is making progress
carrying out “structural reforms” and selling state assets.
Greece stands by its commitments even after the economy
contracted by a fifth over the past three years, the standard of
living dropped by a third, pensioners lost a fifth of their
incomes and half the country’s youth is unemployed, he said.  Abandoning Greece now would increase uncertainty and the
vulnerability of the other euro states and lead to dramatic
consequences in financial markets, Samaras said, urging that the
“spirit of the European Union” be preserved.  Germany,  France  and all other countries “must keep to
their commitments in the European Union,” Merkel said. “And of
course that’s also what we mean when we talk about Greece. What
Europe needs to be taken seriously as a partner in the world is
credibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  