-- Merkel Joins Lahm, Schmidt in Campaign to Promote Europe
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-08-22T11:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/merkel-joins-lahm-schmidt-in-campaign-to-promote-europe.html
German foundations affiliated with
 Allianz SE (ALV) , BMW AG and Bertelsmann AG are to start a media
campaign to make the case for Europe as the crisis in the euro
area threatens to erode public faith in the region’s future.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will deliver a video message at
the start in Berlin tomorrow of the print, television and online
campaign entitled “I want Europe,” the Stiftung Mercator
public-policy group said on its website. Led by President
 Joachim Gauck , it will feature personalities from sport,
politics, culture and society giving “a positive signal for a
strong Europe.”  “In recent months, the image of Europe has been tainted by
negative headlines,”  Mercator said . “The advantages that have
already been won and the chances that Europe offers its citizens
have been lost from sight.”  The campaign is the first concerted effort to champion the
cause of closer European integration amid concerns that bailout
fatigue among voters may translate to wider disaffection with
Germany’s post-World War II commitment to the European Union.
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  has spoken in favor of a
referendum at some point on Germany’s relationship with Europe,
possibly as a result of a Sept. 12 Constitutional Court ruling.  A total of 11 foundations are participating in the current
campaign, which will feature “ambassadors” including former
Chancellor Helmut Schmidt, German national soccer team captain
Philipp Lahm, Dieter Zetsche, the head of  Daimler AG (DAI) , and Tom Enders of European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  Greek ‘Example’  Separate members of Merkel’s CSU Bavarian sister party
criticized Greece, Italy and the  European Central Bank  of  Mario Draghi  this month, calling for “an example” to be made of the
Greek government to send a signal to Spain and Italy. With
Greece looking for more time to meet the terms of its
international bailouts,  Germany ’s best-selling Bild newspaper
has also called for the country to be kicked out of the euro.  “Europe was and is the key to the future for Germany,”
said Mercator, one of seven groups that urged Merkel in a
December 2010 open letter to work for economic union in Europe.  “It’s through Europe that Germany has grown strong,”
Mercator said. “Germany’s state sovereignty and unity have been
advanced by Europe just as have its economic power and
prosperity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Crawford in Berlin at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  