-- Hertz Said to Gauge Dollar Thrifty Shareholders on Bid Price
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r ,   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-08-23T13:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/hertz-said-to-solicit-dollar-thrifty-shareholders-on-bid-price.html
Hertz (HTZ)  Global Holdings Inc., which
has been trying to acquire  Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. (DTG) 
for more than two years, has begun soliciting  Dollar Thrifty 
shareholders to gauge their selling price, according to three
people with knowledge of the process.  Hertz has contacted some Dollar Thrifty investors in recent
weeks to determine at what price they would sell, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. Hertz also asked investors if a hostile bid should be
pursued, said one of the people. The companies are in the early
stages of negotiating an acceptable offer, two of them said.  Hertz, which reaffirmed last month it wants to buy Dollar
Thrifty, is trying to sell its Advantage unit to satisfy U.S.
antitrust concerns. The Federal Trade Commission won’t issue a
consent decree until the companies have agreed to terms, a
person familiar with the process said. Hertz has begun talks
with potential lenders in anticipation of preparing a bid for
Dollar Thrifty within weeks, said another person.  Dollar Thrifty shareholders rejected Hertz’s 2010 bid to
buy the company for about $1.2 billion. Hertz made another offer
last year that it later withdrew, citing market conditions.
Dollar Thrifty contacted  Avis (CAR)  Budget Group Inc. last month to
solicit a new offer, a person with knowledge of the matter said
at the time. Parsippany, New Jersey-based Avis ended its
previous pursuit of Dollar Thrifty in September 2011.  Avis Out  Dollar Thrifty’s market value is about $2.1 billion. Avis
made its initial bid for Dollar Thrifty in July 2010 before
sweetening it to about $1.52 billion two months later. Dollar
Thrifty traded below $1 in March 2009.  Avis pulled its previous offer because it deemed Tulsa,
Oklahoma-based Dollar Thrifty too expensive and decided not to
pursue another bid for the same reason, according to the person
familiar with the situation.  Anna Bootenhoff, a spokeswoman for Dollar Thrifty, and
Richard Broome, a spokesman for  Park Ridge , New Jersey-based
Hertz, declined to comment.  Dollar Thrifty rose 3.7 percent to $78.50 at 9:53 a.m. in
 New York , the biggest intraday jump in three weeks. The shares
rose 7.8 percent this year through yesterday. Hertz gained 4.7
percent to $12.98. Avis rose 1.2 percent to $16.15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Chicago at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  