-- Mets’ Santana Is Shut Down for Rest of Season With Back Injury
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/mets-say-johan-santana-not-expected-to-pitch-again-this-season.html
Johan Santana  won’t pitch again this
season because of inflammation in his lower back, yet the  New
York Mets  expect the 33-year-old left-hander to be back at full
strength for the 2013 campaign.  Santana was placed on the disabled list and will be
replaced in the Mets’ starting rotation by rookie right-hander
Collin McHugh. Santana doesn’t need surgery, the Major League
Baseball team said.  “I’m very confident that he’ll be back next season and
ready to go, and hopefully in a stronger position than he was
coming into this year,” Mets General Manager  Sandy Alderson 
told reporters. “If you look back at the season and what we
reasonably could have expected at the beginning of the year,
he’s actually accomplished quite a lot.”  Santana had a 6-9 record with a 4.85 earned run average in
21 starts after missing the 2011 season following surgery on his
pitching shoulder. On June 1 Santana threw the first no-hitter
in franchise history, yet in his past five starts he was 0-5
with a 15.63 ERA.  Santana’s back stiffened after his last start and then
again after a throwing session this week. Tests revealed
swelling around a disc in his lower back and the Mets opted to
shut him down for the rest of the season rather than risk
further injury. Santana has had surgery on his left elbow, right
knee and left shoulder since joining the Mets in 2008.  ‘Too Bad’  “I wanted to keep pitching,” said Santana, who went 3-7
with an 8.27 ERA following his 134-pitch no-hitter. “It’s too
bad that I have to go down like this, but it’s part of the
game.”  Santana, American League Cy Young Award winner with the
 Minnesota Twins  in 2004 and 2006, is under contract for $25.5
million next season. He’s played one full season since signing a
$137.5 million contract with the Mets.  “In the big scope of things, this has been a very positive
year for him,” Mets manager Terry Collins said. “He’s made it
through a surgery that nobody thought he could. He’s healthy.
He’s got a tweak in his back but, with rest and exercises, it
will go away.”  At 57-67, the Mets have slipped out of playoff contention,
20 games behind the first-place  Washington Nationals  in the
National League Eastern Division. They’re 10 games out in the
race for a wild card playoff spot.  “Now that I’m going to rest and let my body heal, I think
I’m going to be fine,” said Santana, who’s looking ahead to
next season. “My mindset is to be ready to go from day one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  