-- European Stocks Fall on Japan Trade Deficit
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-08-22T16:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/european-stock-futures-drop-before-euro-crisis-meetings.html
European stocks  slid the most in
almost three weeks as  Japan  reported a wider-than-expected trade
deficit and investors awaited the outcome of meetings between
the leaders of countries in the euro area.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  slid 1.7 percent after the world’s
biggest mining company put $68 billion of projects on hold.
 Heineken NV (HEIA) , which last week increased its offer to gain control
of Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd., lost 1.1 percent after posting
first-half earnings that missed analysts’ estimates because of
higher costs.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  sank 4.4 percent as the hedge- fund
manager  reported a drop in assets at its flagship fund.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  declined 1.2 percent to 269.27
at the close, its biggest retreat since Aug. 2. The equity
benchmark has still  rallied 15 percent  from this year’s low on
June 4 as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged
to protect the single currency.  “Everybody’s waiting for the September 6 ECB meeting to
see if policy makers will deliver on what has so far been a
verbal intervention,” said Morten Kongshaug, the chief equity
strategist at Danske Bank A/S. “Markets have overreacted to
those prospects and we could see a selloff before then. Economic
data are far from good as the numbers from Japan showed this
morning.”  The volume of shares changing hands on the Stoxx 600 was
9.8 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. National benchmark indexes declined
in every western-European market. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index fell
1.4 percent.  France ’s CAC 40 Index lost 1.5 percent and
Germany’s DAX Index slid 1 percent.  Stocks’ Rally  The Stoxx 600 rose to its highest level since July 2011
last week, its 11th consecutive week of gains, as optimism
mounted that the currency zone’s central bankers and politicians
would act to protect lenders and as U.S. consumer sentiment and
leading economic indicators exceeded forecasts.  Japan had  a trade deficit  of 517.4 billion yen ($6.5
billion) in July as the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis and a
slowdown in China dragged down exports, a report from the
country’s  Finance Ministry  showed. That compared with a 60.3
billion yen surplus in June and a 270 billion yen  forecast
deficit  in a  Bloomberg News  survey of 28 analysts.  Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago President  Charles Evans 
described weakening global trade as “awful.” The U.S. central
bank will consider both the economy and financial stability
before deciding on further monetary easing, Evans said to
reporters today in Beijing.  Juncker Meeting  In Athens, Luxembourg’s Prime Minister,  Jean-Claude Juncker , who also heads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, meets with Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras to
hear a request for a two-year extension to the country’s fiscal-
adjustment program today. French President  Francois Hollande  and
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  meet tomorrow.  If Samaras shows a willingness to meet the main targets of
his country’s second bailout, the other governments in the
currency zone may agree to minor concessions, a senior lawmaker
with Merkel’s government said yesterday.  In the U.S., a report showed  sales of existing properties 
rose to a 4.47 million annual pace in July from a 4.37 million
pace in June. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had
predicted an increase to 4.51 million. A release tomorrow will
show purchases of new houses climbed to a 365,000 rate last
month from a 350,000 pace in June, according to the  median
forecast  of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  A Commerce Department report on Aug. 24 may show that
durable-goods orders increased 2.5 percent, the most this year,
 economists projected .  Miners Drop  BHP Billiton  slid 1.7 percent to 1,947 pence after saying
that it will not approve any further spending on major projects
this fiscal year. The commodity producer also posted net income
of $5.5 billion for the six months ended June 30, compared with
$13.1 billion a year earlier, according to a calculation from
Bloomberg that the Melbourne-based company confirmed.  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-biggest mining company,
declined 2.7 percent to 2,979.5 pence, as a  gauge of miners 
dropped the most of the 19 industry groups on the Stoxx 600.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  slid 3.7 percent to 1,910 pence after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. downgraded the shares to underweight from
neutral, meaning that investors should sell the holdings. The
brokerage said that Anglo American was the most expensive large
mining company when valued on its earnings.  Heineken Retreats  Heineken slipped 1.1 percent to 44 euros after the world’s
third-largest brewer said costs to produce its beer will climb 8
percent this year, rather than the 6 percent increase that it
had forecast.  The company also posted  earnings before interest and taxes ,
excluding some items, of 1.27 billion euros ($1.6 billion). That
compared with the 1.31 billion-euro  average estimate for profit 
on that basis in a Bloomberg survey of 10 analysts. The figure
represents a so-called organic decrease of 5.5 percent, compared
with the median estimate of 9 analysts for a 0.5 percent
increase.  Man declined 4.4 percent to 76.8 pence after  the fund
manager  said the net asset value of its Man AHL Diversified fund
fell 1.4 percent last week.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  slumped 6.4 percent to 31.77 kroner
after the Aarhus, Denmark-based wind-turbine maker said it will
cut another 1,400 jobs to lower costs by more than 250 million
euros. The company also reiterated full-year targets for revenue
of 6.5 billion euros to 8 billion euros and a margin before
interest and taxes of zero to 4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  