-- Euro Advances Amid Central Bank Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-08-23T11:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/euro-remains-lower-before-manufacturing-services-data.html
The euro climbed to the strongest
level against the dollar in almost seven weeks as speculation
the U.S. and  China  will ease monetary policy spurred demand for
currencies that perform better as the global economy expands.  Europe’s shared currency rose against the yen before
Germany and France hold debt-crisis talks in Berlin today. The
dollar fell for a fourth day before a report forecast to show
sales of new houses in the U.S. increased in July and after
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago President  Charles Evans 
broadened his call for additional measures to support growth.
New Zealand’s dollar appreciated against all but one of its
major counterparts as Asian stocks gained.  “Central banks are printing money like crazy, which is all
positive for risk assets,” said Jeremy Hale, head of macro
strategy at Citigroup Inc. in  London . “The Fed has given a
strong signal that unless things pick up they are going to take
more action and that’s helping the euro. It’s also going to be
dollar-negative.”  The euro strengthened 0.2 percent to $1.2549 at 7:27 a.m.
 New York  time, after reaching $1.2572, the most since July 4. It
climbed 0.2 percent to 98.66 yen. The dollar was 0.1 percent
weaker at 78.62 yen.  The euro is in a “firming trend” toward its June high,
Ralf Umlauf, an analyst at Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in
 Frankfurt , wrote in a note to clients. “The uptrend established
last month will continue to set the tone for the short-term,”
he wrote. Europe’s shared currency reached $1.2748 on June 18,
which was the most since May 22.  Adjustments Possible  People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said
yesterday that adjustments to  interest rates  and banks’ reserve
requirements are still possible after the central bank stepped
up temporary cash injections this month. Minutes of the  Federal
Open Market Committee ’s most recent meeting published yesterday
showed many policy makers favor stimulus additional measures.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the currency against those of six U.S. trading
partners, dropped as much as 0.3 percent today to 81.284, the
lowest since June 20.  Sales of new houses in the U.S. climbed to a 365,000 annual
pace in July, their third increase in four months, according to
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. A separate release, from the
Labor Department, will show that claims for jobless benefits
were little changed last week, economists predict.  Fed Purchases  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and Treasury debt
between 2008 and 2011 in two rounds of quantitative easing, or
QE, to cap borrowing costs. Policy makers have held the Fed’s
 key rate  in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since 2008 and have
pledged to keep it there at least through late 2014.  A third round of asset purchases would “provide confidence
to markets that we are intending to be accommodative for quite
some time,” Evans told reporters in Beijing today. More
accommodative policies are needed around the world, from China
to the U.S., he said.  The dollar has fallen 3 percent in the past month, the
second-worst performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The yen posted the biggest decline, dropping 3.4 percent, while
the euro climbed 0.8 percent.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel hosts French President
 Francois Hollande  today as officials look for ways to stave off
an immediate crisis as Greece prepares a report for
international creditors on the health of its finances.  Greece Uncertainty  “Ongoing uncertainty regarding Greece and the periphery
will cap medium-term gains” in the euro, strategists at Brown
Brothers Harriman led by  Marc Chandler  wrote in a note to
clients published today. “The dollar is trading softer in the
aftermath of the FOMC minutes.”  A report released yesterday of the two-day meeting of the
FOMC that concluded on Aug. 1 showed “many members judged that
additional monetary accommodation would likely be warranted
fairly soon unless incoming information pointed to a substantial
and sustainable strengthening in the pace of the economic
recovery.” Policy makers next meet on Sept. 12-13.  “The minutes were quite dovish and are consistent with our
economists’ view that QE3 is more likely than not in
September,”  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  strategists including  Steven Saywell , London-based head of currency strategy for Europe,
wrote in a report yesterday. “U.S. dollar weakness is likely to
continue.”  New Zealand’s dollar advanced 0.3 percent to 81.61 U.S.
cents and touched 81.87 U.S. cents, the highest since Aug. 7.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares climbed 0.9 percent, while
S&P 500 futures expiring in September rose 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  