-- Ex-Penn State President Spanier Disputes Freeh Criticism
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-08-22T20:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/ex-penn-state-president-spanier-disputes-freeh-criticism.html
Ex-Pennsylvania State University
President  Graham Spanier  disputed findings from an internal
investigation that found him at the center of a cover-up in a
sexual abuse case against Jerry Sandusky.  The report by  Louis Freeh , who conducted an inquiry into
the school’s handling of the sex-abuse scandal, is a
“blundering and indefensible indictment” of Spanier that is
undeserved, Spanier’s attorney Timothy Lewis, a former federal
judge, said today.  The report, issued last month after a seven-month probe, is
“a flat-out distortion of facts so infused with bias and
innuendo that it is, quite simply, unworthy of the confidence
that has been placed in it, let alone the reported $6.5 million
the university paid for it,” Lewis said at a news conference.
Spanier didn’t attend.  Sandusky, 68, a former Penn State assistant football coach,
was convicted in June on 45 criminal counts tied to abuse of
boys over a 15-year period.  The university commissioned an  investigation  by Freeh, a
former federal judge and  Federal Bureau  of Investigation
director. He concluded that Spanier, former head coach  Joe Paterno  and other senior school officials hid critical facts
surrounding Sandusky’s abuse.  There is no evidence that Spanier knew about reports of
Sandusky’s sexual acts with children, his lawyers said today.  E-Mail Reports  The attorneys dismissed e-mails described in Freeh’s report
alluding to Spanier’s knowledge of a 1998 investigation into
Sandusky. There is no evidence that Spanier replied to e-mails
or was otherwise kept informed of that probe, the lawyers said.  “Dr. Spanier, himself a victim of child abuse, would have
been the first to have acted had he known in 1998 or in 2001, or
at any other time, that a predator of this ilk lurked on or
anywhere near the Penn State campus,” Lewis said.  “We stand by our report,” Thomas Davies, a spokesman with
Kekst & Co. for Freeh on the Penn State investigation, said in
an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 