-- Facebook Wins Antitrust Approval for Instagram Purchase
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-08-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/facebook-wins-antitrust-approval-for-instagram-purchase.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  won approval from the
U.S. Federal Trade Commission for its planned acquisition of
Instagram Inc., a photo-sharing service popular on mobile
devices.  The FTC  closed  its antitrust review of the transaction with
a unanimous 5-0 vote of the commissioners, allowing the purchase
to proceed, the agency said yesterday in a statement on its
website.  “We are pleased that the Federal Trade Commission has
cleared the transaction after its careful and thorough review,”
the  Menlo Park , California-based company said in an e-mailed
statement.  Facebook, under investor scrutiny for its performance in
the mobile sector, is buying Instagram to bolster its presence
on wireless devices, where it needs to capture more attention
from users and boost advertising dollars as it competes with
rival Google Inc. The company said earlier this year that sales
growth is failing to keep pace with the increasing number of
users as more members access the service from tablets and
smartphones.  Facebook in April offered to buy the closely held photo-
sharing site for $300 million in cash plus about 23 million
shares of common stock, a deal valued at almost $750 million
based on yesterday’s closing price. Instagram is a photo
application popular on smartphones, such as the Apple Inc.
iPhone, allowing users to quickly take pictures, modify them and
share them with friends.  The company said last month the acquisition is expected to
close in 2012.  The company still faces a fairness hearing by the
California Department of Corporations on Aug. 29 in  San
Francisco  to consider an application by Facebook to issues
securities in connection with the proposed purchase of San
Francisco-based Instagram.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 