-- Facebook Challenged by Swedish Count’s Jet-Set Website
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-08-23T14:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/facebook-challenged-by-swedish-count-s-jet-set-website.html
(Corrects sixth paragraph of story published Aug. 22 to
show that Wachtmeister left ASmallWorld in 2010, not 2009.)  The Swedish count who founded one of
the first social networks is back with a new invitation-only
site to attract jet-setters and the well-heeled away from
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and LinkedIn.  The BestofAllWorlds site, which starts Aug. 27, will allow
users to mingle online with like-minded people, find restaurants
and nightlife in city guides and discover who’s attending events
such as  Art Basel  in Miami and England’s Royal Ascot horse
racing, said Erik Wachtmeister, whose father was a Swedish
ambassador to the U.S.  “Facebook is a monopoly in the social sphere, but it
only gives little value,” Wachtmeister said in an interview in
 London . “We can deliver clever filters, cut through the mess
and get information that’s relevant and we can trust.”  Wachtmeister is betting on exclusivity and users wanting
more control over their data to attract a wealthy audience that
appeals to marketers plying products including yachts, watches,
wine and liquor. The site is being financed with his own money,
as well as funds from a member of the Saudi royal family and
investors in Europe and the U.S.  BestofAllWorlds will run ad-free for the first month. Money
will also be generated from fees from services such as hotel and
restaurant bookings, Wachtmeister said.  More Financing  Wachtmeister was a pioneer of social networking. He founded
ASmallWorld in 2004, an invitation-only website that catered to
a wealthy crowd where users could meet other world travellers,
make business connections and find services such as nannies. The
Weinstein Co. media business founded by Bob and  Harvey Weinstein 
made an investment in the site in 2006. Wachtmeister left
ASmallWorld in 2010. Wachtmeister said he had unsuccessfully
tried to reacquire the site with backing from Russian
billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov .  BestofAllWorlds sent out 5,000 invitations in May to an
exclusive group and the site now has almost 25,000 members,
Wachtmeister said. He is now seeking another round of financing
for $5 million to $10 million.  The site enables users to set their profile to one of four
modes -- family, social, party or professional -- and join
“worlds” or discussion forums focusing on business, food and
wine, health or a better world, which includes charitable and
philanthropic topics.  The “worlds” section will be moderated by a well-known
personality -- journalist Riz Khan has signed up to moderate
better world -- and will expand to more topics focusing on
subjects such as new mothers, film and polo, Wachtmeister said.  Wachtmeister, a former investment banker, is releasing
BestofAllWorlds with his wife, the countess Louise Wachtmeister,
a former Swedish national champion in the 400-meter and 800-
meter relay.  An iPhone application for the site with information on city
guides became available in late July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  