-- Fannie Mae Tightens Mortgage Standards for Some Home Buyers
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-08-22T17:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/fannie-mae-tightens-mortgage-standards-for-some-home-buyers.html
Fannie Mae , the largest source of
money for U.S  mortgages , told lenders that it’s tightening some
of its qualification standards for people buying homes or
refinancing loans.  The changes include a reduction of the maximum loan-to-
value ratios for some  adjustable-rate mortgages  to 90 percent,
from as much as 97 percent, and an increase in required credit
scores for certain loans, the Washington-based company said
yesterday on its  website . Fannie Mae also will start demanding
more tax returns from self-employed borrowers, according to Matt Hackett, underwriting manager at  New York  lender Equity Now Inc.  “This can knock a decent portion of borrowers out of the
picture who had a rough year in business two years ago,”
Hackett said of the tax-information demand, tied to an  update  of
its  underwriting software  used by originators. Two years of
personal and business returns will be required to verify
incomes, up from one year of personal returns. “You’d be
surprised how much of an effect this has,” he said.  Tougher guidelines from  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , which along with
smaller rival  Freddie Mac  guarantees mortgage-backed securities
financing about two-thirds of new loans, may add to challenges
for a  housing market  that’s showing signs of recovering after a
six-year slump. Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of
the world’s largest mutual fund,  said  in commentary yesterday
that while “record-tight” credit standards are impeding real-
estate sales, they “will not last forever.”  Home Sales  Sales of existing homes rose 2.3 percent to an annual rate
of 4.47 million in July from an eight-month low, National
Association of Realtors figures showed today. The median
forecast of 73 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an
increase to a 4.51 million rate.  Andrew Wilson , a spokesman for Fannie Mae, declined to
comment on the changes to its standards, most of which will
start being applied in October. The company told lenders that
the adjustments were part of regular reviews of data and  loan
performance .  The firm, which along with Freddie Mac has tapped almost
$190 billion of U.S. capital since being seized in 2008, will
need to provide annual reports on actions they are taking “to
reduce taxpayer exposure to mortgage credit risk.” The
requirement is part of changes to the companies’ bailouts
agreements the Treasury Department announced Aug. 17.  Credit Scores  Fannie Mae’s tightened standards include an increase of
minimum credit scores for  adjustable-rate mortgages  not vetted
by its Desktop Underwriter computer software. Scores will need
to be at least 640, up from a previous minimum of 620, on a
scale ranging from 300 to 850, according to the memo. It is also
eliminating a policy that provided lenders the flexibility to
accept scores 40 points below its normal requirements for
specific products if borrowers had other strengths.  Changes to its guidance on so-called underwriting
exceptions also will eliminate the concept of a “benchmark”
ratio between borrowers’ income and housing costs of 36 percent,
according to the memo. Instead, 36 percent will be the “stated
maximum,” though the ratio can be as high as 45 percent if the
borrowers meet credit score or cash reserve thresholds.  The new approach “provides more transparent requirements
with regard to how compensating factors must be applied,”
Fannie Mae said.  The company will end its  FannieNeighbors  product that
offered underwriting flexibility for borrowers in so-called
underserved areas. The loans were part of a program that also
offers the aid to low-income individuals or public safety,
education, military and health-care professionals.  Borrowers without traditional credit will be limited to
loans for one-unit homes that they plan to live in, and the
company will no longer accept “exterior-only” property
appraisals for mortgages run through its computer software.  Fannie Mae is loosening some standards, according to the
memo. The loan-to-value ratio allowed for some fixed-rate loans
on two-unit properties will increase to 85 percent, from 80
percent. Down payment requirements also will fall for certain
co-op loans, according to the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 