-- FDIC Sues Goldman, JPMorgan Over Mortgage-Backed Securities
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-22T01:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/fdic-sues-goldman-jpmorgan-over-mortgage-backed-securities-1-.html
Goldman Sachs & Co. and units of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Ally Financial  Inc. overstated the
quality of loans underlying mortgage-backed securities they sold
to the failed Guaranty Bank in Austin, Texas, according to
lawsuits brought by the FDIC as its receiver.  In three separate complaints filed in state court in Austin
on Aug. 17, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. alleged those
institutions and others sold about $5.4 billion worth of
certificates to Guaranty Bank.  “The defendants made numerous statements of material fact
about the certificates and, in particular, about the credit
quality of the  mortgage loans  that backed them,” according to
each of the FDIC complaints. “Many of those statements were
untrue.”  Guaranty Bank, which had 103 branches in Texas and 59 in
 California , was closed by the Office of Thrift Supervision three
years ago today. Its branches were acquired by BBVA Compass of
Birmingham, Alabama, the FDIC said in a  statement  issued then.  BBVA Compass also acquired almost all of Guaranty’s $12
billion in deposits, the insurer said, while entering into a
loss-share transaction with the FDIC on about $11 billion of the
bank’s assets.  Claiming the certificate sellers breached Texas securities
law by making misleading or untrue statements about loans
backing those certificates, the FDIC said in one complaint that
it seeks at least $900 million in damages from Goldman Sachs,
Ally Financial’s Residential Funding Securities LLC and from
units of Deutsche Bank AG and JPMorgan Chase.  Separate Complaint  A separate complaint seeks damages of more than $677
million in damages from JPMorgan Securities LLC,  Bank of America 
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch Pierce Fenner & Smith Inc. securities unit
and a brokerage unit of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Finally a third complaint seeks almost $560 million in
damages from Bank of America, its Countrywide Securities unit
and other defendants.  Thomas Kelly , a spokesman for JPMorgan Chase, declined to
comment on the litigation.  David Wells , a Goldman Sachs
spokesman, also declined to comment. Both institutions are based
in New York.  Shirley Norton , a spokeswoman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, didn’t immediately reply to a
voice-mail message seeking comment. Gina Proia, a spokeswoman
for Ally Financial, didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail
message seeking comment.  The cases are Federal Deposit Insurance Co. as receiver for
Guaranty Bank v. Ally Securities LLC, D-1-GN-12-002522; FDIC v.
Countrywide Securities Corp., D-1-GN-12-002516 and FDIC v.
JPMorgan Securities Inc., D-1-GN-12-002517, Travis County,
Texas, District Court (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  