-- France to Temporarily Cut Fuel Tax as Seeks Longer-Term Plan
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-08-22T16:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/france-to-temporarily-cut-fuel-tax-as-seeks-longer-term-plan-1-.html
France will temporarily cut tax on
oil products to lower fuel costs at the pumps as the government
seeks a longer-term plan to curb prices after President  Francois Hollande  pledged a three-month freeze during elections in May.  “It will be a unilateral measure to lower the state’s
share” of revenue, Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said. It
“will lower the price of fuel, in particular the tax portion.”
The cut will be “modest and temporary” while the government
devises a new system to regulate prices, he told RMC radio.  The cost of diesel, about 80 percent of the market, is less
than 1 cent below the record 1.454 euros a liter (about $6.85 a
gallon) reached May 30, 2008, the Union Francaise des Industries
Petrolieres said on its website. A 1 cent-a-liter tax cut would
cost the state an annual 500 million euros, the lobby said.  Parliament last month voted in a one-time charge on fuel
inventories that will cost refiners and other holders of stock
550 million euros this year, according to the industry group.
Hollande vowed during election campaigning to ease the burden of
higher energy costs on consumers by imposing a price freeze.  New regulation will probably cut the state’s tax take and
seek a contribution from refiners and retailers, Ayrault said,
declining to confirm whether prices would still be frozen.  Fossil Fuels  “If you freeze the price for three months and then prices
rise afterwards, you haven’t solved any problem,” he said
today. “If we’re looking into the future, prices of fossil
fuels will increase, so we need alternative solutions.”  France  hasn’t decided whether to allow development of shale
gas after an earlier ban, Ayrault said. “We have to put all the
different solutions on the table” that don’t pollute, he said.  The country last year banned a process called hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, needed to extract fuel from shale rock.  Since Hollande was elected on May 6 debate has reignited
between supporters and opponents of domestic exploration for
shale resources. Fracking will be discussed on Sept. 14 and 15
at an environment policy conference organized by the government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  