-- Fresenius Drops on Renewed Takeover Speculation: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   J a n h e n r i k   F o r s t e r   a n d   M e h r e e n   K h a n
-- 2012-08-22T17:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/fresenius-drops-on-renewed-takeover-speculation-frankfurt-mover.html
Fresenius SE declined the most in
four weeks on speculation that the company’s supervisory board
is considering a new takeover offer for the hospital operator
 Rhoen-Klinikum AG. (RHK)   Fresenius fell 2.9 percent to 85.40 euros, valuing the  Bad
Homburg , Germany-based company at 15.2 billion euros ($19
billion). It was the stock’s biggest decrease since July 23.  Fresenius’ previous 3.1 billion-euro bid failed to win
enough investor support after Asklepios Kliniken GmbH, another
hospital company, bought 5 percent of Rhoen Klinikum’s shares on
the last day of the offer on June 27. Fresenius spokesman
Matthias Link said Aug. 9 that the company was still assessing
its options regarding a renewed takeover effort. Link declined
to comment today on the speculation after Reuters reported
Fresenius’s supervisory board will weigh another takeover
attempt this week.  “Investors are worried about the risk of overpaying for
Rhoen,” said Peter Braendle, who manages 500 million Swiss
francs ($519 million) at Zurich-based Swisscanto Asset
Management, which holds Fresenius shares. “We cannot assume
that this attempt would be any cheaper than the last one.”  Fresenius is exploring alternatives to the 90 percent
threshold and holding discussions with Rhoen Klinikum, according
to a person close to the company who declined to be named
because the deliberations are private. One possibility is to
purchase a simple majority of the shares instead of the 90
percent that would be needed to fully integrate Rhoen Klinikum
into Fresenius’s own Helios hospital unit, the person said this
month.  The decline in the stock may also be attributed to
investors taking advantage of a 6.5 percent gain in the stock
since June 27, said Mathieu Chabert, an analyst at Bryan Garnier
& Co. in Paris, said in a telephone interview today.  “Yesterday there was some news about a new offer for Rhoen
which could have moved the stock but here is no major reason for
the selling,” said Chabert, who maintains a buy recommendation
on Fresenius.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janhenrik Forster in Frankfurt at 
 jforster14@bloomberg.net ;
Mehreen Khan in London at 
 mkhan108@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  