-- Gallup Accused of Overbilling U.S. on Polling Contracts
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-22T17:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/gallup-accused-of-overbilling-u-s-on-polling-contracts.html
The Gallup Organization overbilled
the U.S. on polling for federal agencies and promised a job to
an official in charge of one of its contracts, according to a
whistle-blower lawsuit joined by the  Justice Department .  The former employee’s complaint, which in its first
paragraph noted Gallup promotes itself as “the most trusted
name in polling,” claims the company inflated the number of
hours required to complete contracts with the State Department,
the U.S. Mint and other agencies, causing more than $10 million
in overpayments.  The Justice Department disclosed today it had intervened in
the allegations involving the State Department and U.S. Mint
contracts and said in court papers filed in federal court in
 Washington  that it planned to add claims involving Gallup’s
subcontract with the  Federal Emergency Management Agency .  The FEMA claims involve whistle-blower allegations that
Gallup offered employment to an agency official who was
responsible for its subcontract while at the same time seeking
additional funding, according to a Justice Department statement.  “Contractors who do business with the federal government
must honor their obligations to provide honest services and
products,” U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen said in a statement.
“Working with relators and federal investigators, we will do
all that we can to act against those who illegitimately bill the
American taxpayers.” Relators is the legal term for whistle-
blowers in False Claims lawsuits.  Sole-Source  Because the contract was granted on a sole-source basis,
the government had no competing bids to evaluate the cost of
work, according to the whistle-blower’s complaint.  In its proposed budget for the  U.S. Mint  project, aimed at
identifying likely purchasers of newly issued coins and how to
market to them, Gallup “inflated the number of hours required
to complete the work, usually by a multiple of two or three
times the number that would be justified by historical
experience,” according to the complaint.  No one at Gallup was immediately available to comment on
the lawsuit, according to Alyssa Brown, a spokeswoman for media
inquiries on Gallup polls.  The suit was filed in 2009 by Michael Lindley, who was
director of client services at Gallup from February 2008 until
July 24, 2009. He says he was fired by the company after
complaining to a supervisor that Gallup was violating the  False
Claims Act , according to Lindley’s complaint.  Closely held Gallup, which is headquartered in Washington,
provides opinion polling and consulting services. It received
more than $300 million in annual revenue in 2008, according to
the complaint.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Lindley v. The Gallup
Organization, 09-cv-01985, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 