-- Georgia Targeting Political Rivals Before Elections, OSCE Says
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2012-08-22T17:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/georgia-targeting-political-rivals-before-elections-osce-says.html
Georgian authorities are targeting
political opponents with investigations and fines before
parliamentary elections set for October, the  Organization for
Security and Cooperation  in  Europe  said.  In investigations of individual or party spending, the
Black Sea nation’s Audit Office is making “questionable”
decisions and imposing “harsh penalties without clear or
transparent guidelines,” the Vienna-based organization’s
Parliamentary Assembly said.  “We are particularly concerned by the practice of certain
law enforcement institutions in  Georgia ,” the OSCE said today
in an e-mailed statement. “Fines levied are disproportionate
and apparently being applied in a selective manner mainly
targeting one political subject.”  President Mikheil Saakashvili’s ruling party has 43 percent
backing compared with 24 percent for billionaire Bidzina
Ivanishvili’s opposition Georgian Dream, a June-July poll by the
International Republican Institute showed. Ivanishvili’s party
said last week the authorities had emptied its bank accounts and
are seizing all new campaign donations. The billionaire has also
been fined by the government for violating party-funding rules.  While the government denied it had frozen Georgian Dream’s
bank accounts, it said fines of 2.85 million lari ($1.73
million) had been levied for violating party-financing
legislation, 122,000 lari of which has been collected so far.  “These false allegations are the latest in a series of
attempts by the Georgian Dream to discredit Georgian
institutions in advance of the October elections,” the
government said today in an e-mailed statement from Tbilisi, the
capital. “Throughout the campaign the Georgian Dream affiliates
have willfully ignored the boundaries of the law and have even
publicly claimed to do so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  