-- German Stocks Decline as Japanese Trade Deficit Widens
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-08-22T15:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/german-stocks-decline-as-japan-trade-deficit-wider.html
German stocks  declined as  Japan 
reported a wider-than-expected trade deficit and investors
waited for meetings of euro-area leaders that may determine
whether  Greece  gets any concessions on the terms of its bailout.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  lost 1.5 percent after Die Zeit reported
that the lender may have to pay costs from possible violations
of U.S. sanctions.  Paragon AG (PGN)  advanced 2.1 percent after
reporting a 13 percent increase in first-half revenue.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  dropped 1 percent to 7,017.75 at the close in
Frankfurt, its biggest slide since Aug. 2. The gauge has still
 rallied 17 percent  from this year’s low on June 5 as European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said he would preserve the
euro. The broader HDAX Index also fell 1 percent today.  “The recent slow grind higher in stocks is a good reason
for profit taking on a morning where Japan’s trade deficit is
highlighting European import weakness,” said Daniel Weston, a
portfolio adviser at Schroeder Equities GmbH in Munich.  German stocks climbed yesterday to a five-month high as
Spain’s borrowing costs fell at an auction of 12-month and 18-
month debt.  In Athens, Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker,
who also heads the group of euro-area finance ministers, visits
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras to listen to a request for
a two-year extension to the country’s fiscal-adjustment program.
Juncker said the group won’t reach any decision about Greek aid
before a meeting in October.  “We’re waiting for the troika report” on Greece’s
progress in cutting spending and increasing revenue from taxes,
Juncker told RTL Television Luxembourg in an interview posted on
the government’s website.  Hollande, Merkel  French President  Francois Hollande  and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  meet in Berlin tomorrow.  If Samaras shows a willingness to meet the main targets of
his country’s second bailout, the other governments in the
currency zone may agree to minor concessions, a senior lawmaker
with Merkel’s government said yesterday.  Japan had a trade deficit of 517.4 billion yen ($6.5
billion) in July as the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis and a
slowdown in China dragged down exports, a report from the
country’s  Finance Ministry  showed. That compared with a 60.3
billion yen surplus in June and a 270 billion yen  forecast
deficit  in a  Bloomberg News  survey of 28 analysts.  In the U.S. a report from the National Association of
Realtors showed that sales of existing homes rose 2.3 percent in
July to a 4.47 million annual rate. That missed the median
forecast of 73 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News for an
increase to a 4.51 million pace last month.  A Commerce Department report on Aug. 24 may show that
durable-goods orders increased 2.5 percent, the most this year,
 economists projected .  Commerzbank, Hochtief  Commerzbank lost 1.5 percent to 1.27 euros. Germany’s
 second-biggest lender  predicts that costs from possible
violations of U.S. sanctions may exceed its funds earmarked for
the purpose. The newspaper cited filings by the bank.  Hochtief AG (HOT) , Germany’s  largest builder , declined 2.7
percent to 39.36 euros. A gauge of construction and materials
companies slid 1.9 percent.  Salzgitter AG (SZG) ,  the second-largest German steelmaker, fell
2.9 percent to 31.89 euros.  Paragon, a German maker of sensors for cars, buildings and
industrial machines, advanced 2.1 percent to 8.90 euros, gaining
for a fourth day. First-half revenue rose 13 percent to 37.6
million euros ($46.9 million).  The volume of shares changing hands on DAX companies was 12
percent lower than the average of the past 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  