-- Ghana’s Opposition Plans New Aluminum, Iron and Steel Industries
-- B y   E m i l y   B o w e r s
-- 2012-08-22T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/ghana-s-opposition-plans-new-aluminum-iron-and-steel-industries.html
Nana Akufo-Addo, the main opposition
presidential candidate in  Ghana , pledged to develop a
“multi-billion dollar integrated aluminum industry” and
attract investment into bauxite mining.  “We will use a similar model to exploit our iron-ore
deposits and build urgently a new iron and steel industry which
can also process West African ore being currently shipped to
 Europe  for refining,” he said yesterday in a speech in Accra,
the capital, broadcast on the website of Joy FM.  The 68-year-old former foreign minister with the New
Patriotic Party lost a 2008 election in  Africa ’s second-biggest
gold producer by less than 1 percentage point to John Atta Mills. He will face President John Dramani Mahama of the ruling
National Democratic Congress, who took office last month after
the death of Mills, in a general election in December.  Ghana’s economy, the second-biggest in West Africa, is
forecast to expand 8.8 percent this year, faster than the sub-
Saharan African average, according to the  International Monetary
Fund . The growth, led by the start of oil production for export
in December 2010, has boosted demand for foreign exchange and
added pressure on the local currency, the cedi, which has
weakened 16 percent against the dollar this year.  “The long-term solution for the stability of our cedi is
industrialization,” Akufo-Addo said. Ghana needs a “much more
robust fiscal and monetary stance than we are seeing today,” he
said.  The  Bank of Ghana  raised its benchmark  interest rate  by 2.5
percentage points to 15 percent this year to stem the cedi’s
decline to a record low against the dollar. The currency traded
0.2 percent higher at 1.9416 a dollar by 8:37 p.m. yesterday in
Accra.  The NPP, which ruled Ghana for eight years until January
2009 under John Kufuor, would expand free education to senior
high school and make a national health-insurance program
universal, Akufo-Addo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Bowers in Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  