-- Google Finally Leads in China -- in App Ad Sales
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-08-22T00:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/google-finally-leads-in-china-in-app-ad-sales.html
After years of seeing its  China 
strategy hobbled at almost every turn,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  has finally
carved out a market niche where it’s the leader: ads aimed at
mobile phone applications.  App developers and corporations such as  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW)  and Shanghai  General Motors Co. (GM)  are turning to Google’s
AdMob unit to reach Chinese smartphone users on the go.  Google’s strength in mobile ads stands in contrast to its
search-engine business in China. The global leader has failed to
catch homegrown favorite  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  in computer-based search,
and two years ago Google moved its search servers out of the
mainland in a censorship dispute with the government.  “Since 2010, Google has been trying many things to keep
its presence in China,” said Steven Chang, chief executive
officer of ZenithOptimedia’s China division, which buys
advertising from Google and Baidu. “AdMob now has quite a
significant share of the market.”  Revenue in China’s mobile-app ad market will probably more
than double to about 1.8 billion  yuan  ($283 million) this year,
exceeding the 1.2 billion yuan from mobile-search queries,
according to iResearch.  In mobile-search advertising, queries from users generate
related ads, while app-based marketing automatically sends ads
to mobile users playing games, viewing videos, or using
applications on smartphones and tablet computers.  Thousands of Developers  AdMob says it has more than 10,000 registered developers in
China. The unit, which Google acquired for $750 million in 2010,
says its servers get 7.9 billion requests a month to show ads to
mobile-app users in the country.  China will overtake the U.S. as the world’s  largest
smartphone market  this year, with shipments climbing 52 percent
to 137 million, according to market researcher IDC.  AdMob’s key advantage is its reach across smartphone
technologies, covering iPhones and iPads as well as Android
devices, said Chen Haozhi, chief executive officer of  Chukong
Co. , a maker of mobile games in Beijing.  Chukong, whose “Fishing Joy” game was ranked China’s
most-popular for Android users in the first quarter by
iResearch, is spending more than $1 million on advertising
through AdMob this year, Chen said.  “Mobile advertising is better at targeting users than
desktop-based ads because they can be more personalized,” he
said.  Olympics Boost  Hylink Advertising Co. bought most of AdMob’s spots in
China during the London  Olympic Games  to meet growing demand for
mobile promotions, said Su Tong, chief executive officer of the
digital  marketing company .  The deal allowed Hylink to resell the space to clients such
as BMW’s China unit and Shanghai General Motors, a Chinese
venture of General Motors Co., Su said. The Google-run
advertising includes a banner ad for GM’s Chevrolet brand, seen
at the bottom of the screen in the mobile edition of China’s
state-backed Global Times newspaper.  “At the moment, in the field of mobile Internet, Google
has a clear advantage,” Su said. “The market is heading the
way of mobile.”  Besides AdMob and search, Google also generates sales in
China from its display advertising business, which helps clients
market on the websites of partners such as Sina Corp.  Internet-search advertising contributed 96 percent of
Google’s $38 billion revenue last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Google, based in  Mountain View ,
 California , doesn’t break out earnings from mobile ads or
revenue generated in China, where its main search business is
overshadowed by Baidu’s.  Trailing Baidu  Beijing-based Baidu had 78.6 percent of China’s search-
engine market by revenue in the second quarter, versus 15.7
percent for second-ranked Google, according to Analysys
International.  Google began losing ground in China’s search-engine market
in January 2010, when the company said it was no longer willing
to comply with government regulations to self-censor Web
content. Two months later, it began redirecting Chinese users of
the Google.cn search-engine service to a Hong Kong site. The
company has also been a target of hackers based in China.  Google’s leadership in Chinese mobile advertising faces a
challenge from domestic rivals such as Baidu and  Tencent
Holdings Ltd. (700)  as they develop services for smartphone users.  Baidu is working with developers to help them design and
market apps and has yet to deploy resources “full scale” in
app-based advertising, said Kaiser Kuo, a company spokesman.
“Mobile search will continue to be important.”  Mobile search contributes as much as 4 percent to Baidu’s
revenue, Nomura Holdings Inc. estimates. Kuo declined to comment
on the figure.  Lack of Content  Baidu’s ability to generate revenue from mobile services is
lower than that for PCs because of a relative lack of content
and information on the Internet that is tailored for phone
users, Chairman Robin Li said last month.  Tencent, China’s biggest Internet company, sells
advertising on its mobile Web portal and platform for wireless
apps. A small share of Tencent’s online advertising sales come
from mobile, spokeswoman Jane Yip said without elaborating.  Google sends about five times as many phone ads to iPhone
and iPad users as  Domob , the closest competitor in China,
according to iResearch.  In the researcher’s survey in March of 60 free mobile apps
in Apple’s China App Store, almost 45 percent of ads displayed
were generated by Google versus 9 percent for Domob.  “In app-based advertising, Google’s AdMob has an
advantage,” said Ada Wang, an analyst at iResearch in Beijing.
“The technology has developed longer and is being used in other
markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  