-- Greek Crisis Evasion to Fore as Merkel Hosts Hollande
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-08-23T11:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/greek-crisis-evasion-to-fore-as-merkel-hosts-hollande-in-berlin.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  hosts
President  Francois Hollande  today as officials look for ways to
stave off an immediate crisis after a report due next month from
Greece’s international creditors on the health of its finances.  Options raised in  Germany  in recent days include front-
loading aid payments to Greece to help it over liquidity
hurdles; lowering the  interest rate  or extending maturities on
loans; and pushing for a second debt writedown, this time
focusing on bonds held by public institutions, notably the
European Central Bank.  With the leaders of  Europe ’s two biggest economies still at
the confidence-building stage, Merkel and Hollande are seeking
common ground on Greece and the wider euro-area debt crisis
almost three years after its inception.  France  sees the program
targets set for Greece as too harsh given the state of its
economy, a French government official said yesterday on
condition of anonymity because the talks are private. Merkel and
Hollande are due to give statements at 7 p.m. in Berlin.  “On balance we still take the view that they’ll keep
Greece ticking over,”  David Owen , chief European financial
economist at Jefferies International Ltd. in  London , said by
phone. “If that does require giving it more time, so be it.”  Greek ‘Understanding’  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , speaking on
SWR2 radio today, said that giving Greece more time to meet its
obligations under its international aid program would mean more
money and wouldn’t solve the country’s problems. At the same
time, he said there has to be “understanding” for Greece’s
predicament and that it’s clear the country lost time because of
repeated elections.  “There’s absolutely no point in speculating,” he said,
according to a transcript posted on the Finance Ministry
website. “The Greek government has to find a way to resolve
this with the representatives of the EU Commission, the  European
Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund .”  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras is due to follow
Hollande to Berlin tomorrow then travel on to Paris on Aug. 25,
after he used an interview published yesterday in Germany’s
best-selling Bild newspaper to call for more time -- “a little
more air to breathe” -- to carry out policy changes to address
his country’s debt woes. Granting an extension “doesn’t
necessarily mean more money,” he told Bild.  Yields Drop  Greek 10-year bond yields dropped to the lowest in more
than three months yesterday as Merkel signaled she was willing
to discuss his request, leaving the door open to concessions.
The yield on Greece’s 2 percent bond due in February 2023 was
little changed at 23.84 percent today after reaching 23.67
percent, the lowest since May 9.  The euro gained 0.1 percent to $1.2539 as of 1:11 p.m. in
Berlin.  “We won’t find solutions on Friday,” Merkel said in the
Moldovan capital Chisinau, reiterating that leaders must await a
report on Greek progress being drawn up by the so-called troika
of the ECB, the European Commission and the IMF.  Merkel’s comments, made on the same day she topped Forbes
magazine’s list of the world’s most powerful women for the
second year running, suggest a thaw in relations between Germany
and  Greece  after Greek publications drew Nazi-era comparisons
with its treatment during the debt crisis and Bild called for
Greece to be expelled from the euro.  Sarkozy Defeated  Her remarks also point to common ground with Hollande, who
defeated her ally  Nicolas Sarkozy  in May elections on a platform
of curbing Merkel’s austerity-first drive to combat the crisis.  German officials said in recent days that concessions are
possible for Greece so long as Samaras shows a willingness to
meet the main targets set out in his country’s bailout program.
French government spokeswoman Najat Vallaud-Belkacem said
yesterday that “Greece must respect its engagements” while
“at the same time, we must give it prospects for growth.”  “For once Hollande and Merkel are on the same page in
swapping ideas how to keep Greece afloat even if they look at
the problem differently,”  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING
Group in Brussels, said by phone. “The key to unlocking what
Greece wants is Greece itself. Greece needs to help Merkel to
help Greece, finally giving a credible signal that it means
business with its problems.”  Greece’s governing coalition, grappling with a fifth year
of recession and youth unemployment of about 50 percent, has
said it favors an extension of its fiscal adjustment program by
two years to 2016.  ‘Turning the Page’  “Greece is turning the page, politically, economically and
socially,” Samaras said yesterday at a joint press conference
in Athens with Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker,
who heads the group of euro-area finance ministers.  Samaras vowed to speed up structural reforms such as
changes to labor markets and to sell state assets, as promised
under the two rescue packages pledged to Greece.  He told French newspaper Le Monde in an interview published
today that uninhabited Greek islands could be used to generate
revenue, responding to a longstanding demand by some German
lawmakers that Greece sell its islands.  “On condition that it doesn’t pose a national security
problem, some of the isles could be used commercially,” Samaras
was cited as saying. “It would not be a case of getting rid of
the isles, but of transforming unused terrain into capital that
can generate revenue, for a fair price.”  Juncker said that any lengthening of the adjustment period
for Greece would depend on the findings of the troika mission.
Speaking earlier on RTL Television Luxembourg, he said that no
decisions would be made before October.  Greece is facing a “last chance,” Juncker said in  Athens 
“The truth is that Greece, given the experiences of the last
two years mainly, is suffering a kind of credibility crisis.”  The IMF estimates that Greece will need between 13 billion
euros ($16.4 billion) and 14 billion euros of additional funds
to cover its financing needs for 2015 and 2016, even without an
extension to the time frame for its fiscal consolidation
program, Greek newspaper Ta Nea reported, without citing anyone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  