-- Greece Asks for More Time as Juncker Meets Samaras in Athens
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-08-22T12:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/greece-asks-for-more-time-as-juncker-meets-samaras-in-athens.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
called for “more time” to carry out policy changes to address
with Greece’s debt woes as he prepared to receive Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  in Athens.  “All we want is a little more air to breathe to get the
economy going and increase government revenue,” Samaras was
quoted as saying in an interview with Germany’s Bild newspaper
published today before the arrival of Juncker, who heads the
group of euro area finance ministers. “More time doesn’t
necessarily mean more money.”  Limited concessions to Greece are possible as long as they
are made within the framework of the second aid program for the
over-indebted country,  Norbert Barthle , the parliamentary budget
spokesman for  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic
Union, said yesterday. Options include front-loading aid for
Greece, fellow CDU lawmaker Michael Meister said.  Juncker is due to meet with Samaras at 5:30 p.m. in Athens
as Greece remains at the heart of the crisis almost three years
after the turmoil began. With contagion spreading to Italy and
Spain, the  European Central Bank  is working on plans to help
lower government borrowing costs after ECB chief  Mario Draghi 
announced proposals on Aug. 2 to re-enter the  bond market .  The euro dropped 0.2 percent to $1.2448 at 1:56 p.m. in
Berlin after rising to six-week highs yesterday against the  U.S.
dollar  and yen amid optimism the crisis is being contained.  Hollande, Merkel  French President  Francois Hollande  is due in Berlin
tomorrow for talks on the crisis with Merkel. Samaras, whose
government favors an extension of its fiscal adjustment program
by two years, travels to Berlin and Paris on Aug. 24 and Aug. 25
as he seeks to persuade his country’s international creditors to
continue the aid payments needed to keep Greece in the euro.  In his talks with Merkel, Hollande “will be watchful to
make sure the integrity of the euro zone is maintained,” French
government spokeswoman Najat Vallaud-Belkacem told reporters in
Paris. “Greece must respect its engagements. At the same time
we must give it prospects for growth.”  Germany would be “ill-advised” to allow the euro region
to break up,  Adam Posen , a member of the Monetary Policy
Committee at the  Bank of England , said in an interview with the
 BBC . It is in Germany’s commercial and economic interest to
restructure the debt of euro-zone countries in trouble, Posen
said.  Greek Contraction  Samaras told Bild his government is making progress
carrying out “structural reforms” and selling state assets.
Greece stands by its commitments even after the economy
contracted by a fifth over the past three years, the standard of
living dropped by a third, pensioners lost a fifth of their
incomes and half the country’s youth is unemployed, he said.  Abandoning Greece now would increase uncertainty and the
vulnerability of the other euro states and lead to dramatic
consequences in financial markets, Samaras said, urging that the
“spirit of the European Union” must be preserved.  There is a “clear process” to determine whether Greece is
granted more time to meet aid conditions, European Commission
spokesman Simon O’Connor told reporters in Brussels today.  The so-called troika of the ECB, the commission and
 International Monetary Fund  “will return to Athens early in
September to continue the review of the second program which has
been under way now for some time, and on the basis of that
assessment the Eurogroup will then be in a position to take
decisions on these issues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  