-- Guangzhou R&F Marketing Junk Dollar Bonds as Credit Risk Climbs
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-08-22T06:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/guangzhou-r-f-marketing-junk-dollar-bonds-as-credit-risk-climbs.html
Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. (2777)  began
marketing  Asia ’s second U.S. dollar-denominated junk bond this
month as offerings of high-yield debt slow amid limited investor
appetite for riskier assets. Credit risk rose.  The Chinese property company is marketing a $200 million
increase to its existing notes due April 2016 at a yield of
about 12.375 percent, a person familiar with the matter said,
asking not to be identified because the matter is private.  Sound
Global Ltd. (SGL)  was the last junk-rated dollar borrower from Asia,
selling $150 million of five-year notes Aug. 6 with an 11.875
percent coupon, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  High-yield dollar bond sales in the Asia-Pacific region
plunged 33 percent to $9.5 billion this year from the same
period of 2011 as  Europe ’s debt crisis worsened, threatening
economic growth in exporting nations such as  China . The region
is diverging from the U.S., where junk offerings set a record
for August even amid concern the market for the riskiest
corporate debt has peaked.  “The market is practically shut for new names and
investors are still being very selective in the high-yield
space,” Keith Chan, a Hong Kong-based credit analyst at HSBC
Holdings Plc, said in a telephone interview. “Repeat issuers,
at the right price, will still find demand.”  Investment-grade debt is rated at least Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service or BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s . Bonds with lower
ratings, or no ratings, are typically known as junk,
speculative-grade, or high-yield.  Guangzhou Bonds  Guangzhou R&F Properties sold its first lot of dollar-
denominated notes due 2016 in April last year, issuing $150
million of the securities at a yield of 10.875 percent. The
company doesn’t have a debt grade from S&P, Moody’s or Fitch
Ratings, Bloomberg data show.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  is marketing a benchmark-sized sale
of subordinated U.S. dollar notes that will be eligible as Tier
2 capital, a separate person familiar with the matter said
today. The notes, due in 10 1/2 years and callable after 5 1/2
years, may yield about 310 basis points more than Treasuries,
the person said.  The sale follows a spate of investment-grade U.S. dollar
offerings from Indian lenders. Axis Bank Ltd., ICICI Bank Ltd.,
 Union Bank of India  and Indian Overseas Bank sold $1.85 billion
of notes since Aug. 13, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Axis Bank, rated Baa3 by Moody’s, added $250 million to its
existing dollar bonds due 2017 at a spread of 390 basis points
more than Treasuries yesterday, according to the data. Mumbai-
based Axis received orders of about $1.9 billion from 134
accounts, a person familiar with the matter said today.
Investors in Asia bought 72 percent of the deal, the person
said.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  increased 1 basis point to 146 basis
points as of 8:43 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show. The gauge reached a five-month low of
145.8 basis points on Aug. 20, according to data provider CMA.  Investor concern that the global slowdown will harm
economic growth in Asia deepened after both Japan and  Taiwan 
were hurt by a contraction in demand. Japan reported its ninth
trade deficit in 12 months today while Taiwan’s jobless rate
increased in July as its economy shrank.  Japan had a July  trade deficit  of 517.4 billion yen ($6.5
billion) as the turmoil in Europe curbed exports.  Japan CDS  The Markit iTraxx Japan index advanced 1 basis point to
188.5 as of 9:15 a.m. in  Tokyo , Deutsche Bank AG prices show.
The index is on course for its highest close since Aug. 8,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index dropped 0.75 of a basis
point to 149.25 basis points as of 10:15 a.m. in Sydney,
according to Deutsche Bank.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  