-- Gunkul Plans to Double Revenue on Renewable-Energy Power Plants
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-08-22T00:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/gunkul-plans-to-double-revenue-on-renewable-energy-power-plants.html
Gunkul Engineering Pcl (GUNKUL) , a Thai power
and engineering company, expects sales to more than double in
the next three years as it steps up investment in renewable-
energy plants.  Revenue may climb to about 9 billion baht ($286 million) by
the end of 2015 from an estimated 4.3 billion baht this year,
Managing Director Sopacha Dhumrongpiyawut said. The Bangkok-
based company will spend more than 10 billion baht through 2013
on building and acquiring wind and solar power plants, she said.  Gunkul joins other Thai power companies such as  Ratchaburi
Electricity Generating Holding Pcl (RATCH)  and  Electricity Generating
Pcl (EGCO)  in expanding into renewable power projects as the government
promotes the use of clean energy to cut reliance on natural gas.
 Thailand  and  Malaysia  are among nations offering favorable
project returns because of “generous” subsidies for renewable
energy, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said in a February report.  “Wind and solar power industry in Thailand will continue
its stellar growth with the government’s supporting policies,”
Sopacha said in an interview yesterday. “Falling costs of
renewable energy power equipment have also encouraged Thailand
and neighboring countries to accelerate development of this
facility.”  Gunkul plans to double the total generating capacity of its
solar and wind  power plants  by the end of 2014 from about 100
megawatts at the end of this year, she said. The company wants
to boost sales from its renewable-energy power plants to about
half of total revenue from 30 percent, she said.  Thailand plans to boost power production from renewable
energy to 6 percent of installed capacity in 2030 from about 1.4
percent in 2011, according the Energy Ministry’s  website .  Myanmar Bidding  Gunkul is building a 60-megawatt wind plant in Nakhon
Ratchasima province, 250 kilometers (155 miles) northeast of
Bangkok, said Sopacha. It also operates solar plants with a
capacity of 57 megawatts, she said. The power plants have
contracts to sell electricity to the state-owned utilities.  “Gunkul is in the process of a radical transformation into
power generation business from a supplier of power equipment,”
said Songklod Wongchai, an analyst at  Finansia Syrus Securities
Pcl. (FSS)  “That will be a positive step as the renewable-energy
power business has more stable revenue and better margins with
long-term sale contracts to the government.”  Gunkul is also seeking permission to build and operate new
power plants in Myanmar, where it has done business for more
than 15 years, said Sopacha, who just returned from Yangon this
week. The company this year earned about 30 percent of its
revenue from the sales of electricity transmission equipment in
Myanmar, she said.  “We want to utilize our experience and knowledge of
Myanmar to tap the vast potential of the power generation
industry,” said Sopacha. “Myanmar will be a catalyst for
Gunkul’s earnings growth over the next several years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  