-- Iceland Shelves Monetary Tightening as Krona Seen Appreciating
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-08-22T10:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/iceland-shelves-monetary-tightening-as-krona-seen-appreciating.html
Iceland’s  central bank  shelved a
cycle of interest rate increases as policy makers raised
forecasts for the krona through 2014 after clamping down on
currency speculators.  The bank, which kept its seven-day collateral lending rate
at 5.75 percent today after raising borrowing costs five times
in the past year, said the krona will average 150.1 per euro
next year, almost 10 percent higher than previously forecast. It
raised this year’s estimate by 5.5 percent to 156.3 per euro.  “The bank seems to anticipate that the krona will
appreciate further through 2014, meaning that it will adversely
impact Iceland’s balance of trade,” said Asdis Kristjansdottir,
head of research at Arion banki hf in Reykjavik. “At the moment
the country needs to generate more foreign exchange to meet its
foreign exchange obligations. I’m therefore surprised that the
bank doesn’t use the opportunity to purchase foreign exchange in
the markets while the krona is so strong.”  The bank has been struggling to lift  capital controls  in
place since the economic collapse in 2008. Policy makers raised
rates at consecutive meetings from March to June in a bid to
ease inflation. The government in March closed a loophole in its
currency controls strengthening the krona by almost 14 percent
and curbing price growth.  Faster Growth  The bank forecast that inflation will average 5.4 percent
this year and slow to 3.4 percent next year and 3 percent in
2013. Gross domestic product will expand 3.1 percent in 2012,
2.2 percent next year and 3.4 percent in 2014, the bank said.  “The inflation outlook for the next two years has improved
since the Monetary Policy Committee’s last meeting, although
inflation is not expected to reach the bank’s inflation target
until the end of the period,” Sedlabanki said in the statement.  The krona was little changed against the euro at 148.23 as
of 9:14 a.m. local time.  Annual inflation slowed to 4.6 percent in July from as high
as 6.4 percent in April. A stronger currency pushes down the
cost of imports for the north Atlantic island, which targets an
inflation rate of 2.5 percent.  Iceland, whose banks defaulted on $85 billion in 2008,
completed a 33-month  International Monetary Fund  program in
August last year. The island’s approach to its rescue has led to
a “surprisingly” strong recovery, Daria V. Zakharova, the
IMF’s mission chief to the country said in an interview this
month.  Fitch Ratings  in February raised the island to investment
grade, praising its “unorthodox crisis policy.”  Locked Assets  The country imposed capital controls in 2008 after the
krona plunged as much as 80 percent against the euro offshore.
The controls are stopping as much as $8 billion in kronur assets
from leaving, according to an estimate by  Arion Bank hf .  The country’s monetary policy has been out of step with the
rest of the world, where central banks are keeping rates at or
near record lows to guard against the fallout of a deepening
 European debt crisis .  Iceland’s $13 billion economy will expand 2.4 percent this
year, the IMF said April 17. That compares with a 0.3 percent
contraction in the 17-member euro area, the fund said.  Unemployment, which jumped nine-fold between 2007 and 2010,
eased to 4.7 percent in July from a peak of 9.3 percent two
years ago.  Iceland started European Union accession talks in 2010 and
the government has said it targets euro adoption as soon as
possible after joining the bloc. A poll by newspaper
Morgunbladid published Aug. 13 showed that 39 of the 63
lawmakers in parliament oppose continuing talks and may push the
legislature to address the option of dropping membership
preparations before elections next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  