-- Michael Jackson, Janelle Monae Saluted by Marcus Miller
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-08-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/michael-jackson-janelle-monae-saluted-by-marcus-miller.html
Marcus Miller  was 25 when  Miles Davis  tapped the bass player to write, arrange and produce most
of the songs on the trumpeter’s CD, “Tutu.”  Two Grammy Awards and 28 years later, Miller remains a bass
master who would seem to have little to prove in the recording
studio.  Yet the prep work for his latest CD found him listening to
his past seven outings and deciding the electric drums and
instrumentation lacked the live feel he wanted.  “I was a studio rat, and I would overdub recordings,”
said the affable Miller by phone from Marciac,  France , where he
recently appeared with his band. “My sound was like a big
rhythm-and-blues production but with jazz musicians. The thing I
do best is perform.”  On the new album, “Renaissance” (Concord Jazz), released
this month, Miller didn’t go live but he reduced the overdubs
and focused on the band’s chemistry. The record’s signature
blend of jazz and funk was No. 1 last week on  Billboard 
magazine’s contemporary jazz chart.  “This CD is more stripped down, and there’s more emphasis
on playing,” Chris Jisi, senior contributing editor of  Bass
Player  magazine, said by phone about Miller. “What he’s done is
take his bass playing to a new level, and I like the way he’s
featuring the band.”  Radio Hits  “Renaissance” revisits radio hits from Miller’s teen
years with his remakes of War’s “Slippin’ Into Darkness” and
the Jackson 5’s “I’ll Be There.” One of the highlights is his
haunting bass clarinet solo on “ Goree ,” named after the island
off the coast of  Senegal  that was used in the African slave
trade.  He also recasts singer Janelle Monae’s “Tightrope” with a
jazzy feel and Dr. John on vocals. Over the lush melody of
“Setembro” (Brazilian Wedding Song), Miller tapped emerging
jazz vocalist Gretchen Parlato and salsa star Ruben Blades to
handle the vocals.  “I’ve been attracted to real renaissance men like Ruben,”
Miller said about Blades, who holds a Harvard Law School degree
and served as  Panama ’s minister of tourism. “His singing for
the album took an hour, but it took three hours to record
because I was just listening and talking to him.”  Bass Trio  Miller teamed up with fellow bassists Stanley Clarke and
Victor Wooten to form the power trio S.M.V. in 2008. That year,
he also recorded “A Night in Monte-Carlo,” a project
commissioned by the principality’s symphony orchestra featuring
his songs and arrangements.  “I found myself interested in being in unusual
situations,” Miller said. “That was the beginning of
‘Renaissance.’”  Miller said saxophonist Wayne Shorter gave him some
valuable advice about making music when they toured last summer
with  Herbie Hancock .  “I asked Wayne what’s the most important tool you use when
you compose,” Miller said. “Wayne said to use your imagination
to find that little spark, that little ember of an idea, and you
make it glow into what you want it to be.”  (Miller’s world tour includes performances in Hollywood
(Aug. 29);  Dallas  (Sept. 6);  Chicago  (Sept. 13);  Washington 
(Sept. 19);  Los Angeles  (Oct. 4 to 7); and Paris (Oct. 27). For
more concert dates, see  http://www.marcusmiller.com/tour.html .))  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining, Katya
Kazakina on  art .  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 