-- Time for Germany’s Bundesbank to Put Up or Shut Up
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-22T22:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/time-for-germany-s-bundesbank-to-put-up-or-shut-up.html
The future of the euro and maybe of
the European Union itself will turn in the next few weeks on a
disagreement between  Mario Draghi , president of the  European
Central Bank , and Jens Weidmann, head of the Bundesbank. Draghi
wants the ECB to do “whatever it takes” to preserve the single
currency. Weidmann doesn’t.  A question arises: How did the Bundesbank, representing
just one nation among the 17 members of the euro area, ever
acquire the veto over ECB policy it is apparently allowed to
wield?  There are two main answers. First, when the Bundesbank
ruled the roost as Germany’s central bank, its reputation was
peerless. In some ways the ECB was modeled on it, and the habit
of deference persists. But while the Bundesbank still calls
itself a central bank, its role now is to serve as a regional
office of the ECB.  Second,  Germany  is the biggest economy in the euro area.
But so what? Votes on the ECB’s governing council are
distributed not by shares of euro-area gross domestic product or
ECB capital. The ECB was purposely designed so that every
country in the system sends a member to the council; each of
those members has one vote.  Germany doesn’t actually have a veto; it just talks as
though it does, and the rest of the council usually goes along.
Don’t be fooled; Germany understands the limit of its power.
Some of its politicians have started complaining about it,
saying it’s wrong that Malta has as much voting power as Germany
and the rules should be changed. They are worried that Germany’s
minority view on the council might soon be voted down.  Buying Bonds  It has happened before: Axel Weber, a previous Bundesbank
president, was outvoted when the ECB decided to buy Greek bonds
before resigning early last year. This is how it should be.
Minority views on bodies like the council are supposed to be
voted down.  You might sympathize with the view from Berlin until you
understand that one-man, one-vote was deliberately written into
the ECB’s architecture to prevent what has arisen -- policy
guided by national interest, rather than by the interests of
 Europe  as a whole.  The design, which Germany had a disproportionate say in
drawing up, aimed to suppress the very idea of national
representatives, which weighted votes would have affirmed. At
Germany’s insistence, Weidmann’s job under ECB rules is not to
represent Germany. It’s the same as Draghi’s -- to represent
Europe.  Weidmann, to be sure, could plausibly say that’s exactly
what he’s doing. We’ve been making the case for months that the
ECB should act as a lender of last resort by standing behind
distressed but solvent sovereign borrowers, and should squelch
any doubts that may arise about the system’s integrity. We can
see that the case isn’t open and shut; intervention on the
needed scale does create moral hazard, as Weidmann has said, and
how far you can control it is open to debate.  Yet the case against a lender-of-last-resort role for the
ECB is increasingly being cast in terms of national interests.
You can see why. Measures to help Europe’s distressed
governments are increasingly unpopular in Germany. And whatever
the rules say, Germany has the power that comes from knowing the
euro system needs Germany rather more than it needs  Greece .  Undermining Confidence  Even so, it’s wrong to let those points play so prominent a
role, and not just because the ECB’s job isn’t to balance
national interests. It’s also wrong because it undermines
confidence in the euro project itself. Once the ECB engages, or
is seen to engage, with the question of who gets helped and at
whose expense, the entire notion of monetary union is called
into question.  After Draghi’s Aug. 2 promise to defend the euro by any
means necessary, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  expressed agreement -- admittedly,
not in the clearest terms. (Schaeuble said he would support
stronger ECB action “within its mandate.”) In subsequent
comments, both have offered the Bundesbank sufficient cover to
soften its line.  Right now, though, Weidmann may be more closely aligned
with German public opinion than Germany’s elected leaders, a
strange position for a central banker to be in and, under
present circumstances, an unhealthy one. In our view, the
Bundesbank is wrong on the merits about the right way to support
the euro system. Whatever their views on that, however, Europe’s
central bankers should think back to the founding of the euro
and remember how monetary policy in a genuine union is supposed
to be run.  Since credibility is all, the survival of the system must
not be kept perpetually in doubt. And as Germany once insisted,
the key to central-bank credibility is political independence.
Weidmann must make it clear that he is more concerned about
Europe than Germany. That goes with the job. And if need be, the
rest of the council must be willing to overrule him. That goes
with the job, too.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why we still need  affirmative
action ;  Caroline Baum  on the free market not working for  health
care ;  Susan Crawford  on the consequences of the  Apple-Samsung 
patent case;  Ezra Klein  on  Romney’s vaporous Medicare  promise;
Jonathan Mahler on  football, concussions and ESPN ; William
Silber on how  Paul Volcker  restored the Fed’s  credibility on
inflation ; Will Wilkinson on how  Paul Ryan  can be a  Randist and
a Catholic .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 