-- In Apple v. Samsung Patent Case, Expect Nobody to Win
-- B y   S u s a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-08-22T22:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/in-apple-v-samsung-expect-nobody-to-truly-win-susan-crawford.html
(Corrects reference to Google Inc.’s Motorola Mobility unit
in sixth paragraph.)  I remember a June evening when three
complete strangers separately insisted on showing me their new
mobile phones. It was 2007, I was on the subway in  New York , and
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone had just been released.  The slick design of Apple’s new device -- and, in
particular, its ease of use -- was so compelling, these people
could not help but share. Now the multibillion-dollar question
confronting a jury in San Jose,  California , is whether Samsung
Electronics Co. found those elements of the iPhone so
compelling, it could not help but copy.  Apple’s position is that the chronology of events speaks
for itself: It took Apple four years to design the iPhone, but
Samsung needed just three months to produce devices whose
overall look and icon design was, in Apple’s view,
“substantially the same” as the handset that had been featured
on Time magazine’s  cover . The similarities were so great that no
“ordinary observer” would notice the difference.  Samsung, for its part, claims that “form follows
function,” and as technology advanced, its designs simply kept
pace. From this perspective, Apple is infringing on Samsung’s
patents and, at the same time, attempting to “stifle legitimate
competition and limit consumer choice to maintain its
historically exorbitant profits,” according to a  Reuters
report .  Jury Working  As seven men and two women now attempt to fill in a 700-
question  jury-verdict form  relating to dozens of Samsung
products, it’s worth considering the possible consequences of
the decisions they will make.  In one view, if Apple obtains the injunctions and more than
$2 billion in damages it seeks, competition in the handset
market will grind to a halt. Samsung sold about 50 million
phones worldwide during the second quarter of 2012, amounting to
about a third of the phone market during that quarter, while
Apple sold about  26 million, or 17 percent . In the U.S., Apple
and Samsung together have 55 percent of the smartphone market.
If Samsung has to redesign its devices, no other company will be
capable of challenging Apple for the foreseeable future. Google
Inc.’s Motorola Mobility unit, Nokia Oyj, LG Electronics Inc.
and HTC Corp. are all struggling.  Another view is that an Apple victory might drive other
companies to come up with truly inventive new designs,
interfaces and functions. By this thinking, Apple might not
actually want an outright victory; it would only spark stiffer
competition. Indeed, the worst outcome of all for consumers
might be an Apple victory that leads to a settlement with
Samsung: We would be left with nothing but Apple-licensed clones
on the market. And Apple itself would always be able to avoid
antitrust liability by claiming it still faces energetic
competition.  Whoever wins, the expensive, loony unreality of software
patents will not go away quickly enough. Companies seem to be
bent on inventing patents rather than patenting inventions.
Every device is covered by hundreds of patent claims, and
because a patent is primarily a license to litigate, armies of
lawyers and experts tussle over dry technical terms in front of
befuddled jurors worldwide.  Apple is fighting with Samsung in at least 19  other
lawsuits  pending on four continents, even though Samsung
supplies a substantial part of the technology used in Apple
devices. Companies should be competing in the marketplace rather
than in courtrooms. This week, Google Inc.’s general counsel,
Kent Walker,  called for  a cease-fire, urging policy makers to
keep “an eye on the growing anti-competitive abuse” of
patents.  Peace Time  Federal District Judge Lucy Koh, who is presiding over the
Apple-Samsung proceedings and is herself a former intellectual
property lawyer, several times urged the companies’ chief
executive officers to settle their disputes before sending the
case to the jury, saying, “It’s time for peace.” As the Apple-
Samsung jurors were each handed a sheaf of jury instructions,
Judge Koh made an awkward joke: “I’m now going to read our 84
jury instructions,” she said, adding that she would ask the
jurors to stand up “periodically to make sure we’re alive.”  You can be glad for the moment that you’re not one of the
jurors filling out that form in  San Jose . But all of us need the
destructive patent system to be redesigned.  (Susan P. Crawford is a contributor to Bloomberg View and a
visiting professor at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government
and  Harvard Law School . She is a former special assistant to
President  Barack Obama  for science, technology and innovation
policy. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why we still need  affirmative
action  and on why the Bundesbank should  put up or shut up ;
 Caroline Baum  on the free market not working for  health care ;
 Ezra Klein  on  Romney’s vaporous Medicare  promise; Jonathan
Mahler on  football, concussions and ESPN ; William Silber on how
 Paul Volcker  restored the Fed’s  credibility on inflation ; Will
Wilkinson on how  Paul Ryan  can be a  Randist and a Catholic .  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan P. Crawford at  scrawford@scrawford.net  or  @scrawford  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 