-- Indian Stocks Decline on Reform Concerns, Bharti Airtel L
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-08-22T10:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/indian-stocks-decline-on-reform-concerns-bharti-airtel-l.html
Indian stocks fell amid concern the
government will struggle to implement measures to revive growth.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , the largest mobile-phone operator,
retreated to near a six-year low.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ,
owner of the world’s largest refining complex, surged the most
in two weeks.  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) , the top
mortgage lender, fell the most in a week. The BSE India
 Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, lost 0.2 percent to 17,844.69,
according to preliminary closing prices in  Mumbai .  India’s main opposition party demanded that Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  resign after a report by the chief auditor last
week said the government may have lost $33 billion by giving
away coal blocks rather than auctioning them. Offshore funds
have bought a net $11.5 billion of shares this year, a record
for the period, on optimism Singh will revive reforms stymied by
opposition from his allies as he seeks to bolster an economy
growing at the slowest pace in almost a decade.  Both houses of parliament were adjourned yesterday after
protests and disruptions by groups led by the  Bharatiya Janata
Party , threatening to deepen the political impasse that has
stalled legislation and cabinet decisions on allowing foreign
investments in retailing, pensions and insurance. The auditor’s
report said the government gave undue benefit to companies
including  Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP)  and  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  by
awarding mining contracts at negotiated prices. Asia’s third-
largest economy  grew  5.3 percent in the March quarter, the
weakest pace in nine years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  