-- Minutes Show Fed May Ease ‘Quite Soon,’ Nomura’s Nordvig Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-08-22T19:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/minutes-show-fed-may-ease-quite-soon-nomura-s-nordvig-says.html
More monetary stimulus from the
 Federal Reserve  may be “coming quite soon,” driving down the
dollar and buoying riskier assets, according to Jens Nordvig,
managing director of currency research at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in New York.  Nordvig spoke in a telephone interview after the release of
minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s July 31-Aug. 1
meeting. Many policy makers said additional stimulus would
probably be needed soon unless the economy shows signs of a
durable pickup, the minutes showed.  On the FOMC minutes:  “The text was reasonably clear in suggesting that more
stimulus is potentially coming and coming quite soon.  “Relative to the expectations that we had going into this
that the QE idea had been pushed out in the future, that was a
little bit of a surprise, and that’s the reaction you’re seeing
in the dollar.  “It’s not a huge move, but it’s very broad-based. We’ve
seen it both in the yen and the higher-yielding crosses. It’s
pretty much across the board.”  On the impact of more easing on riskier assets:  “It’s also something that’s very important for risk assets
globally.  “We’re going into the September period, and a lot of
people are concerned about the European situation. But if you
have an expansion announced by the Fed, that could be something
that really underpins risk assets to a meaningful degree,
especially since expectations had really pushed out the
announcement of something of that nature to much later.”  On improving U.S. data and optimism about Europe’s crisis:  “The text and minutes were that the data needed to improve
quite meaningfully for them to not think additional
accommodation was warranted.  “There has been some improvement in some indicators, but
if you look at everything in a holistic perspective, the data
has been quite tentative. We have to be very open-minded that we
might get something in short order.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  