-- Investors Should Pare Bullish Bets on Bubble-Era CMBS, RBS Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-08-22T17:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/investors-should-pare-bullish-bets-on-bubble-era-cmbs-rbs-says.html
Investors may want to cut bullish
bets on a derivative index linked to commercial-mortgage backed
securities after a three-month rally, according to Royal Bank of
 Scotland  Group Plc.  “While we have been bullish on the market since early
July, we are now questioning if CMBS has rallied too far too
fast,” Royal Bank of Scotland analysts led by  Richard Hill  said
in a report today. “A spike in volatility driven by renewed
global macro concerns may temper the recent rally.”  Values on Markit Group Ltd.’s CMBX index linked to
commercial-mortgage bonds sold during the market’s peak have
risen to the highest in almost a year as a lull in  Europe ’s debt
crisis and speculation that policy makers will step in spur
gains, according to RBS. Prices on an index linked to debt
issued in 2006 have climbed to 88.94, the highest in more than a
year. Values on the gauge rise as investor confidence improves.  Current levels may make it hard for the rally to continue
through year-end as investors attempt to lock in profits,
according to RBS. It may be time to take “some chips off the
table,” the analysts said.  Investors sought to unload about $4.25 billion in
commercial-mortgage bonds last week, 64 percent more than the
average weekly volume in 2012, according to data provider
Empirasign Strategies LLC. Some of the selling came from so-
called fast-money holders, primarily hedge funds, looking to
take gains, according to Barclays Plc.  Riskier debt fell amid the flood, with values declining as
much as three cents on the dollar, Barclays analysts led by
Keerthi Raghavan said in an Aug. 17 report. Wall Street dealers
probably ended up buying most of the lower-ranking bonds,
signaling the potential for more selling, according to Barclays.  “The dealer community is at best a short-term home,” the
analysts said. “A sharp turn lower in the macro-environment
could lead to more supply.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  