-- Iran Curbs Drive Rice Exporter to Africa: Corporate India
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2012-08-23T12:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/iran-curbs-drive-rice-exporter-to-africa-market-corporate-india.html
KRBL Ltd. (KRB) ,  India ’s biggest basmati
rice exporter, plans to seek new markets in Africa to counter
international sanctions against Iran and revive profit amid
sliding grain prices.  Rising demand among Indian immigrants and natives of  Kenya ,
 Senegal ,  Nigeria  and  Ethiopia  for the aromatic, long variety may
help reverse two years of decline in earnings, Chairman Anil Mittal said in a phone interview. Net income may almost double
to 1.25 billion rupees ($23 million) in the year ending March
31, from 730 million rupees in the previous 12 months, he said.
The cereal is used to make dishes including biryani and pilaf.  “For us, the new market will be east and west  Africa  as
rising income there drives demand for these products,” Mittal
said, without elaborating on the potential volume. “If the
entire continent is covered, it will be a big quantity.”  A 25 percent drop in prices of basmati rice in the 12
months to March eroded  earnings  of the New Delhi-based company,
while its shares have plunged 70 percent from a record high
reached in October 2010. Trade restrictions on Iran, the world’s
biggest buyer of the grain, have resulted in payment hurdles for
Indian shippers, prompting KRBL to look elsewhere for growth.
The  All India Rice Exporters’ Association  expects basmati
exports to increase 25 percent this year.  Region Specific  India, the largest grower of basmati rice, controls 65
percent of the overseas market, according to the state-run
Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development
Authority, or APEDA, while  Pakistan , the only other main
producer in the world, accounts for the rest. The rice variety,
specific to a geographic region like scotch whiskey, is
cultivated in the states of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and
Uttarakhand in India, and in Punjab that straddles both the
South Asian countries.  Exports accounted for about 58 percent of KRBL’s revenue in
the year ended March 31, 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, with the  Middle East  making up for more than 50
percent.  Net income  dropped 39 percent in the year ended March 31
because of falling prices and currency hedging losses from the
rupee’s 12 percent slump against the dollar during the period.
The decline in shares has driven its market value down to 5.7
billion rupees from 6.5 billion rupees in March 2011.  The stock fell 0.2 percent to 22.95 rupees at the close in
Mumbai today.  “Foraying into new markets is good for any company,” said
Batlivala & Karani Securities Pvt.’s Ayyathurai Rajkumar, the
only analyst who tracks the stock, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. He rates it underperform, with a one-year target
price of 18 rupees.  China Imports  KRBL, which sells the flagship ‘India Gate’ basmati rice,
has two processing plants in Punjab and  Uttar Pradesh  operating
below their total capacity of 1.4 million metric tons of paddy a
year.  India produced about 5 million tons of basmati rice in the
year ended March 31, of which it exported 3.2 million tons.
Outbound shipments may increase to 4 million tons in the current
year, said M.P. Jindal, president of the All India Rice
Exporters’ Association.  China , the biggest consumer of rice, has agreed to allow
basmati imports from India after sorting out regulatory issues,
the  Press Trust of India  reported on June 21, citing India’s
Foreign Secretary Ranjan Mathai.  India’s northern neighbor can buy as much as 10,000 tons of
the grain in the first year, opening up a market closed to
Indian shippers, according to A.K. Gupta, an adviser to APEDA.  “We are expecting demand mainly from hotels, restaurants
and expatriates,” he said.  Prices Decline  Prices of basmati rice dropped to $845 a ton as of March
31, 2012, from as high as $1,133 in April 2011, according to
data provided by  APEDA , eroding profit margins for KRBL.  The company has scaled back outbound shipments to  Iran 
after some buyers in the Persian Gulf nation defaulted on
payments as the rial slumped amid trade sanctions imposed by the
U.S. and the European Union to discourage what they say is the
Persian Gulf country’s pursuit of a nuclear bomb. Iran says its
atomic program is for peaceful purposes.  Two Iranian private companies owed nine Indian rice
exporters about 1.84 billion rupees ($33 million) as of
February, Jyotiraditya Scindia, junior trade minister, said on
March 14.  KRBL exported as much as 12,000 tons of basmati rice to
Iran last year, Mittal said, and expects to capture 10 percent
of the 1 million-ton market if the sanctions are lifted.  India exported $2.7 billion worth of goods to Iran in the
financial year that ended March 2011, according to the
 Department of Commerce . Iron and steel items were the biggest
category, accounting for $623 million.  “We are zero today in Iran,” said Mittal. “Though I am
looking at new markets, the question is of securing payments and
how to do business there. Until we are sure about payments, we
won’t be able to enter that market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  