-- Isaac Watched by Traders, Republicans on Move to Florida
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-08-23T04:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/isaac-may-become-caribbean-sea-hurricane-tomorrow-center-says.html
Tropical Storm Isaac moved into the
 Caribbean Sea  and may become a hurricane as early as today as it
travels west on a path watched by commodity markets and those
preparing for the  Republican National Convention .  Isaac is forecast to strengthen and cross Haiti and Cuba
before arriving at the southwestern Florida coast Aug. 27, the
National Hurricane Center said. That’s the opening day of the
Tampa session at which Republicans are expected to nominate  Mitt Romney  as their presidential candidate.  “At this point the error in our forecasts is so huge that
it’s very difficult to tell what the risks would be” to land,
said  Jeff Masters , co-founder of  Weather Underground  in Ann
Arbor,  Michigan . “We’re not going to have an idea until Sunday
at the earliest what kind of risk this poses to Tampa. It’s
quite the drama.”  Orange-juice futures rose the most in more than seven weeks
on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  yesterday and natural gas gained
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  because of the storm.  “We’re paying extremely close attention to it,” Florida’s
emergency management director, Bryan Koon, said in an interview.
“We anticipate there will be impact to the state next week. But
exactly where and how much remains to be seen.”  Isaac’s Path  Isaac , the ninth named storm of the  Atlantic hurricane
season  that runs through November, was 270 miles (434
kilometers) southeast of San Juan,  Puerto Rico , the Miami-based
center said in an  advisory  at 11 p.m. Atlantic time yesterday.
The system, moving west at 20 miles per hour, packed maximum
sustained winds of 45 mph. That’s below the minimum 74 mph speed
of a  Category 1 hurricane .  The storm may bring as much as 20 inches (50.8 centimeters)
of rain and raise water levels by 5 feet (1.5 meters) above
normal along the coast of Hispaniola, according to the advisory.  “Isaac could become a hurricane Thursday night or
Friday,” the center said. “Some strengthening is forecast
during the next 48 hours.”  Offshore oil and gas platforms and rigs may begin to shut
in the next few days as the storm threat is better determined,
said  Jim Rouiller , senior energy meteorologist at Planalytics
Inc. in Berwyn,  Pennsylvania .  The  Gulf of Mexico  is home to 29 percent of oil production,
6.3 percent of U.S. natural-gas output and 40 percent of
refining capacity, according to the U.S. Energy Department.
Florida is the second-largest orange grower, after  Brazil .  Guantanamo Bay  Florida Governor  Rick Scott  urged residents to be prepared.
Preliminary hearings scheduled to start today in Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, for Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the alleged mastermind of the
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, were postponed by an Army judge
because of the storm threat.  Alex Sosnowski, expert senior meteorologist for AccuWeather
Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania, said that the storm is
still several days away and may make landfall anywhere from
eastern Florida to the Gulf Coast.  If it hits eastern Florida, weather in Tampa may be hot and
dry. If Isaac moves into the Gulf, the city might have severe
thunderstorms, gusty winds and drenching rain, he said.  “It’s going to be in the general vicinity of Florida in
the first part of next week when the Republican National
Convention is going on,” Sosnowski said. “Even without a
direct hit, it could mean travel impacts.”  ‘Moving Parts’  The path will depend on how strong Isaac gets while it is
still in the Caribbean and how far north it goes, said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC, in Bethesda,
Maryland. How the storm interacts with the  larger islands  of the
Caribbean can also affect the track, as do weather patterns over
the U.S.  “There are a lot of moving parts with this one,” Rogers
said.  If the Tampa Bay area is expected to receive rain from the
outskirts of the storm, the convention would probably proceed as
normal, Koon said. If a direct impact looks probable, Koon said
he’ll talk with convention officials about how to move delegates
and reporters.  “Our concern from the state level is going to be the
Floridians who live in the area,” Koon said. “Delegates who
come down generally have the means to get back to where they
need to go.”  Metro Tampa  Tampa is the second-largest metro area in Florida, after
Miami, with nearly 2.8 million people, according to Census data.
An estimated 50,000 are expected to attend the four-day
convention, including 15,000 representatives of the media.  The Tampa Bay Times Forum, site of the gathering, is in a
mandatory evacuation zone once storms reach 96 mph, a Category 2
on the five-step  Saffir-Simpson scale , according to the
Hillsborough County Hurricane Guide.  The most violent storm to hit the city, in 1848, sent 15
feet of water over land now home to the Tampa Bay Convention
Center, where media will be headquartered, Masters said.  A tropical depression, the 10th of the  hurricane season ,
formed yesterday about 1,045 miles west of the Cape Verde
Islands, the hurricane center said.  The system is moving west-northwest with top winds of 35
mph on a track that may keep it east of the U.S., according to
an  advisory  at 10:34 p.m. Eastern time yesterday. It’s expected
to become a tropical storm today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  