-- Mississippi Section Shut to Traffic After Vessel Grounding
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-08-22T21:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/mississippi-section-shut-to-traffic-after-vessel-grounding-3-.html
The  U.S. Coast Guard  closed traffic
on a section of the  Mississippi River  early today after a barge
grounded because of shallow water.  The river was closed on an 11-mile stretch near Greenville,
Mississippi, between mile markers 524 and 535, Petty Officer 3rd
Class Ryan Tippets, a New Orleans-based public affairs officer
for the Coast Guard, said in a telephone interview. The vessel
has been floated and the guard is inspecting the channel to
ensure safe passage, he said.  After an earlier grounding, the river was opened yesterday
and 33 northbound vessels moved through the section, Tippets
said. There are 31 northbound vessels and 72 southbound vessels
waiting to pass the area.  The section was opened yesterday at 4 p.m. and shut after
the grounding early today, Bob Anderson, a spokesman for the
 U.S. Army Corp. of Engineers , said in a telephone interview.  The drought across the Midwest has left the Mississippi
River system, which includes the Ohio and Missouri rivers, with
low water levels that have impeded and delayed barge traffic.  “They are closing the river in some areas,” said Steve Holcomb, vice president of  investor relations  at  Kirby Corp. (KEX) , a
Houston-based company operating a fleet of inland tank barges.
“We’re carrying a little less product than we historically
carry, but we’re still making our deliveries.”  Kirby primarily moves petrochemicals along with crude oil,
Holcomb said.  Marathon Garyville  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  ships about 50,000 barrels a day
of heavy Canadian oil by barge from Patoka, Illinois, to its
refinery in Garyville,  Louisiana , Garry Peiffer, the company’s
executive vice president of corporate planning and investor and
government relations, said in a conference call July 31.  Shane Pochard, a Findlay, Ohio-based spokesman for
Marathon, declined to comment on refinery supply in an e-mail.  Inland waterways carry 60 percent of the nation’s grain
exports, 22 percent of domestic petroleum and 20 percent of coal
used to generate electricity, Ann McCulloch, a spokeswoman for
the  National Waterways Foundation  in Arlington,  Virginia , said
in a telephone interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  