-- Japan Citizens Favor Zero Nuclear in Debate Over Energy Options
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-08-22T08:43:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/japan-finds-47-of-citizens-support-zero-nuclear-power-option.html
Japan ’s public wants the government
to phase out nuclear power according to the results of town
hall-like forums to give the public a say in the debate on the
nation’s energy supply post-Fukushima.  The forums brought together 286 citizens for two days in
early August in Tokyo from thousands surveyed by phone. They
were broken into smaller groups to discuss and vote on three
energy supply options the government proposed: Zero nuclear, 15
percent nuclear, and 20 percent to 25 percent nuclear.  A total 47 percent opted for zero nuclear, 16 percent
favored the nuclear ratio at 15 percent, while 13 percent
endorsed 20-25 percent, according to a report by  Yasunori Sone ,
a professor of political science at  Keio University  and the head
of the group that organized the survey for the government. The
remainder chose more than one option, said Sone’s report.  The poll results “indicate Japanese citizens are prepared
for a policy shift to green energy from nuclear power and
consequent lifestyle changes and cost burdens,” according to
the report.  The results of the poll will be used in deciding the
country’s long-term energy policy, which may be drafted as early
as the end of next week. Tens of thousands of Japanese citizens
have held weekly demonstrations in Tokyo since March opposing
nuclear power and the restart of reactors closed for safety
checks after the Fukushima disaster.  The March 11 earthquake and tsunami last year caused
reactor meltdowns and radiation leaks at  Tokyo Electric Power
Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, forcing the evacuation of about
160,000 people and destroying fishery and farming industries.  Nuclear Debate  Japan’s government used the so-called deliberative poll, a
type of survey developed by Professor James Fishkin of  Stanford
University  that allows participants to debate an issue before
voting on it.  The number of the participants who favored the zero nuclear
scenario rose by 5 percent to 47 percent after debating the
three options, while support for the 15 and 20-25 percent
options dropped, according to the survey.  At 11 separate government hearings across Japan between
July 14 and Aug. 4 to allow citizens to express their opinions
on the three options, nearly 70 percent supported the zero-
nuclear scenario, the Asahi newspaper  reported .  Participants in the deliberative poll were selected from
6,849 people who were randomly surveyed by phone in July.  All Japan’s 50 reactors are offline save for two run by
Kansai Electric Power Co. that were restarted in July at the
company’s Ohi plant in western Japan. The government approved
the restart after an advisory group forecast summer power
shortages without nuclear in the Kansai region, the country’s
second-biggest metropolitan area.  Summer Demand  Electricity demand in July fell 6.3 percent to 68.5 billion
kilowatt hours from a year earlier because of lower temperatures
than the previous year and power-saving efforts by households
and companies, the Federation of Electric Power Companies said
Aug. 22 in a  statement .  Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda today met 11 members of
citizen groups organizing the weekly anti-nuclear protests
outside his official residence. The groups demanded the
government shut the two Ohi reactors, keep the other 48 offline
and decommission all of them.  “Our basic policy is to eliminate the country’s dependence
on nuclear power,” Noda told the representatives of the group.
On the country’s long-term energy policy, “We will refer to
your opinions and keep considering various views carefully
before making a decision.”  The government aims to reach zero-nuclear power in the
2030s in response to increasing public opposition to atomic
power, the Mainichi newspaper  reported  Aug. 21, without saying
where it got the information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in  Tokyo  at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  