-- Augusta’s Hootie Johnson Says He Tapped Moore to End Female Ban
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   J o h n   H e l y a r
-- 2012-08-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/johnson-says-he-ended-augusta-female-bar-from-drop-dead-set-1-.html
William “Hootie” Johnson, who once
vowed that Augusta National Golf Club wouldn’t admit women even
“if I drop dead this second,” said he personally nominated one
of the club’s first two female members.  Johnson, 81, former chairman of the private club in Augusta,
 Georgia , that hosts the  Masters Tournament , said the official
nomination of Darla Moore came from him.  “Yes,” Johnson said in a telephone interview yesterday
from his home in Columbia, South Carolina. “She has a long
connection with me. I’ve had her as a guest at the club a number
of times along with her husband. She’s a sweet lady.”  Johnson, who was succeeded as the club’s chairman in 2006
by  Billy Payne , remains active in Augusta National decisions
while serving as chairman emeritus.  The Masters is the first of golf’s four annual major
tournaments and draws the largest U.S. television audiences in
the sport.  Moore, 58, and  Condoleezza Rice , 57, the former U.S.
Secretary of State, were announced two days ago as the newest
members of the 80-year-old club, which also counts  Bill Gates 
and  Warren Buffett  in its roster.  Johnson and Moore, both graduates of the University of
South Carolina, have been friendly since the late 1990s, when
Johnson was in charge of the school’s $300 million capital
campaign. Moore, the wife of billionaire investor Richard Rainwater, has donated more than $70 million to the university’s
business school, which was named after her in 1998.  Front Page  Johnson said he remembers the moment when he decided to
approach Moore for a donation to the school. She was on the
cover of a 1997 Fortune magazine for an article titled, “The
Toughest Babe in Business.”  “I went over to talk to the guy at the university who was
heading up the campaign and I was looking through Fortune while
I was waiting to see him,” Johnson said. “The guy gave me a
list of four or five names where we might get big money. I told
him, ‘I can’t get big money from these people, I know them all,
but we might get a big gift from this lady right here.’ So I
went to see her.”  Moore, who graduated from  South Carolina  in 1975, is the
leading female benefactor of a business school, according to the
university’s website.  Johnson said he has played golf with Moore and described
her ability on the course as “very good.” He wouldn’t
elaborate on the process of nominating Moore or Rice.  “That’s a club matter that I’m not going to discuss,”
Johnson said.  Payne Politics  Johnson’s participation reflects Payne’s political skill in
bringing change to Augusta National, said Marcia Chambers, whose
2002 article on the club’s all-male membership in Golf for Women,
entitled “Ladies Need Not Apply,” touched off the campaign led
by Martha Burk to push for female members.  “It’s clear he got Hootie involved in the process, and
that was crucial,” Chambers said in a telephone interview.  Others in the club weren’t aware of the decision ahead of
time, according to two longtime members who said they learned
about it from the media. They spoke anonymously because the club
told members not to talk to reporters. Existing members are
typically notified of new members in a letter after they have
been accepted.  The decision to disclose the newest members in a public
statement is a change from the longstanding tradition of not
discussing private matters. The club, which opened in 1932, has
never before publicly acknowledged the names of its members.  ‘Deliberate’ Consideration  “We are fortunate to consider many qualified candidates
for membership at Augusta National,” Payne said in an e-mailed
statement on Aug. 20. “Consideration with regard to any
candidate is deliberate, held in strict confidence and always
takes place over an extended period of time. The process for
Condoleezza and Darla was no different.”  The addition of Rice and Moore follows almost a decade of
scrutiny of Augusta’s all-male membership. In 2002, Johnson
sparked the debate when he responded to requests from Burk,
then-chairwoman of the National Council of Women’s Organizations,
to add female members by saying the club wouldn’t admit a woman
“at the point of a bayonet.” The issue led Burk to stage a
small protest during the 2003 Masters.  Johnson, flanked by Payne, opened his annual pre-Masters
news conference that year by saying there “may well come a time
when we include women” and that the club was very comfortable
with its all-male status. After being pressed on the subject,
Johnson ended the gathering with a more decisive stance.  “I do want to make one point, though,” he said. “If I
drop dead, right now, our position will not change on this issue.
It’s not my issue alone. And I promise you what I’m saying is,
if I drop dead this second, our position will not change.”  Women’s Membership  Asked yesterday if he was relieved to have the issue of
women’s membership behind him, Johnson declined to comment.  “I continue to be very happy with Augusta National,”
Johnson said. “I’m not going beyond that.”  Augusta National faced renewed scrutiny this year over its
lack of female members amid questions about a possible
invitation to Ginni Rometty, chief executive officer of
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   Rometty, who became the first female CEO in IBM’s 100-year
history in January, didn’t join Rice and Moore as a member.
Augusta National historically has invited the CEO of IBM to join
the club, including the company’s four previous chief executives.  Johnson’s unwillingness to discuss private matters or
details about the club’s decision to invite Moore and Rice is
standard practice, according to former Atlanta Mayor  Andrew Young , who had discussions with the club leading up to the 1996
Olympics. Payne unsuccessfully attempted to have golf added to
the Olympic schedule that year, with the intention of staging
the competition at Augusta National.  “One of the things I’ve learned about Augusta, if you want
to deal with Hootie Johnson, you have to do it privately,”
Young said in a telephone interview. “Augusta thinks it’s the
Vatican of golf and you don’t pressure the Pope. That doesn’t
mean they don’t respond to pressure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   John Helyar in Atlanta at 
 jhelyar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  