-- Jordan Joins Ewing to Help Obama Raise Money in New York
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-08-23T04:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/jordan-joins-ewing-to-help-obama-raise-money-in-new-york.html
President Barack Obama assembled
what he called his own basketball “dream team,” calling in
retired basketball greats  Michael Jordan  and  Patrick Ewing  to
help him raise more than $3 million for his re-election.  Jordan, who led the  Chicago Bulls  to six  National
Basketball Association  championships, co-hosted a dinner last
night in New York for 120 people who paid $20,000 each to
attend.  “We are in the fourth quarter, we’re up by a few points,
but the other side is coming strong and they play a little
dirty,” Obama said. “Nobody knows better than Michael that, if
you’ve got a little bit of a lead and there’s about seven
minutes left to go, that’s when you put them away.”  Obama is raising campaign cash as Republican presidential
candidate Mitt Romney and allied groups entered August with more
money to spend than Obama and the Democrats.  Along with Ewing, who played most of his career with the
 New York Knicks  and was Jordan’s teammate on the U.S.’s 1992
Olympic “Dream Team,” the dinner at the  Lincoln Center 
included current NBA stars such as Carmelo Anthony of the Knicks
and  Chris Bosh  of the  Miami Heat  along with Penny Hardaway and
Alonzo Mourning, who are retired. NBA Commissioner  David Stern 
also attended.  After dinner, Obama participated in an informal shoot-
around with the NBA players and other guests, according to
campaign spokeswoman  Jen Psaki . That portion of the evening was
closed to the media.  No One-on-One  “He’s not taking any one-on-one game tonight,” Jordan
said in introducing the president.  White House spokesman  Josh Earnest  said he didn’t know if
the president has been practicing his shot, though he did play a
game last weekend.  Before dinner, the NBA players, along with Sheryl Swoopes,
the first player signed to the Women’s National Basketball
Association, participated in an autograph signing event for the
campaign that has sold 400 tickets at $250 per. Planned for
later was a skills camp, with tickets at $5,000 for 100 donors.  Obama sought to rally supporters earlier yesterday by
warning his challenger will have more money for the campaign.  “We will see the other side spend more money than we’ve
ever seen on ads,” Obama told an audience in North Las Vegas,
Nevada.  Tax Cuts  “Mr. Romney, my opponent, his main economic plan is to
give everybody in this room a tax cut,” Obama told the NBA
crowd in New York. “Now some of you may find that appealing,
but the fact of the matter is we can’t afford it.”  Romney called yesterday’s  Congressional Budget Office 
report that  U.S. debt  will total 73 percent of the nation’s
gross domestic product this year “unacceptable.” It’s the
fourth year in a row that the U.S. would run a trillion-dollar
 budget deficit , according to the CBO.  “I will finally cut federal spending, encourage growth and
by virtue of those get America to a balanced budget,” Romney
told supporters at a fundraising event yesterday in Little Rock,
Arkansas, that organizers said raised more than $2 million.  More than 250 tickets were sold at prices ranging from
$2,500 to $50,000. Attendees, all from Arkansas, included
Senator John Boozman, Representatives Tim Griffin, Rick Crawford
and Steve Womack, as well as Chairman Claiborne Deming of El
Dorado, Arkansas-based  Murphy Oil Corp. (MUR)   Romney Fundraising  Romney, the Republican National Committee and two allied
super-political action committees reported a combined bank
account balance of $169 million on July 31, according to
disclosures filed with the Federal Election Commission. That
compared with $107 million for the president, the Democratic
National Committee and the pro-Obama Priorities USA Action.  By itself, Obama’s campaign committee outpaced Romney’s. In
the last tally of campaign cash before the national party
conventions, Obama brought in $49.2 million to $40.3 million for
Romney in July. The Republican National Committee overcame that
deficit by itself, raising $37.9 million, while its Democratic
counterpart reported $10 million in receipts.  The Republican committee’s cash-on-hand advantage of $88.8
million to $15.4 million for the Democratic National Committee
more than overcame Obama’s edge over Romney. The Obama campaign
committee reported $87.7 million in its bank account entering
August compared with $30.2 million for Romney.  ‘Science Class’  Obama used the New York fundraiser to again decry the
comments on rape and abortion by Todd Akin, the Republican U.S.
Senate candidate in Missouri. Akin, a six-term congressman
seeking to unseat Democratic Senator  Claire McCaskill , said
during an Aug. 19 interview that “legitimate rape” rarely
leads to pregnancy.  “The interesting thing here is this is an individual who
sits on the House Committee on Science and Technology but
somehow missed science class,” Obama said. “It’s
representative of the desire to go backward instead of forward
and the fights that we thought were settled 20, 30 years ago.”  Obama’s remarks were laden with sports metaphors, and he
drew a comparison with what he did for increased political
participation in the 2008 election with how Jordan spurred
interest among non-basketball fans in the 1990s.  “So this is my dream team,” Obama said. “It’s very rare
that I come to an event where I am like the fifth or sixth most
interesting person.”  He made a point to mention NBA all-stars who played at the
University of  North Carolina  at  Chapel Hill  in a key
battleground state. “We have some Tar Heels in the House,” he
said.  Jordan has “his North Carolina shorts under his suit,”
Obama said. “And that’s important to note.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  