-- Knight’s $440 Million Loss Spurs Questions on Trade Cancel Rules
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-08-22T21:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/knight-s-440-million-loss-spurs-questions-on-trade-cancel-rules.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ’s $440
million loss from a computer malfunction this month highlights
the dangers of limiting human input in decisions about canceling
trades, according to two industry executives.  Regulators should have discretion to reverse transactions
when the outcome puts a firm’s survival at risk, said Neal Wolkoff, former chairman and chief executive officer of the
American Stock Exchange and ex-head of ELX Futures LP. They
should allow “do-overs” in extreme cases, said R. Cromwell Coulson, CEO of  OTC Markets Group Inc. (OTCM)  in New York.  Knight was forced to accept the loss on Aug. 1 when
Chairman and CEO Thomas Joyce failed to persuade the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to let  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  relax
rules on voiding trades. While officials of the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association and New York Stock
Exchange said the regulations worked as planned, Coulson said
there should be provisions for system breakdowns.  “We really need, as an industry, to have some points when
the trade tape could be rolled back if something is going
haywire and is not working right,” Coulson, whose firm operates
marketplaces for equities not listed on U.S. exchanges, said in
a phone interview. “This needs to be an option in the
regulator’s toolbox to correct mistakes.”  Decisions should be made by the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, which can bring together divergent views,
and should apply when it’s clear the market isn’t functioning
properly in its price-setting role, he said. Brokers should be
forced to pay an “expensive price” for their errors, he said.  Unintended Orders  Knight’s computers bombarded the market with unintended
orders just after trading began on Aug. 1, causing volume to
surge and prices to swing in dozens of  securities . NYSE Euronext
said around 3 p.m. New York time it would cancel transactions in
stocks before 10:15 a.m. that were at least 30 percent away from
their price at the start of trading, a decision that applied to
six securities out of 140 that were reviewed.  The exchanges and Finra, which oversees almost 4,400
brokers, revised their policies for so-called clearly erroneous
executions after the May 6, 2010, plunge when the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU)  briefly fell 9.2 percent and trades involving
5.6 million shares were voided. New rules made their policies
uniform and reduced exchanges’ flexibility to decide when to
cancel, or bust, transactions.  Knight’s $440 million loss depleted its capital and forced
it into a rescue by investors who bought securities convertible
into a stake of more than 70 percent of the Jersey City, New
Jersey-based firm. The company faced insolvency in the days
following the Aug. 1 mishap as customers of its market-making
unit took business elsewhere.  Regulatory Punishment  “At the end of the day, you’re punishing a firm for its
own sloppiness, but almost to the point of extinction,” Wolkoff
said. “If there were a regulatory punishment, it could still be
punitive but wouldn’t take the firm out of existence.”  Knight declined to comment today, according to Kara Fitzsimmons, a spokeswoman.  A rational penalty should be imposed on firms that suffer
technical malfunctions, “but that assessment can’t be the near-bankruptcy of a firm because of a line of code,” Wolkoff said.
“It’s not a good thing to have institutions collapsing around
you because of these freak occurrences.”  NYSE Euronext CEO Duncan Niederauer and Mary Schapiro,
chairman of the SEC, said in separate comments on Aug. 3 that
the exchanges followed the thresholds laid out after the 2010
plunge in deciding which Knight trades to bust.  Four Hours  In that case, it shouldn’t have taken four hours to
publicize the ruling, said Tom Carter, managing director at
JonesTrading Institutional Services LLC, a Westlake, California-based broker, and vice chairman of the Security Traders
Association. He said the rules for errant trades shouldn’t be
made more flexible.  “If the stocks were 30 percent out of whack, they
shouldn’t have waited till 3 p.m. to cancel them,” Carter said.
“It should have been done right away,” he said. After the
flash crash, “there’s supposed to be a more stringent
application of the rule. We need to reduce flexibility because
money is at stake,” he said.  The rules for erroneous trades were adopted to reduce
incentives for investors and market makers to withdraw from
trading because of confusion about whether transactions would
stand. Knight’s near-bankruptcy is the first incident in which
the rules’ application almost led to a company’s collapse.  Canceled, Stand  Member firms of Sifma were generally satisfied with the
certainty they had about which trades would be canceled and
which would stand, according to T.R. Lazo, managing director and
associate general counsel of the New York and Washington-based
trade group. While the effectiveness of rules should always be
assessed, Sifma hasn’t heard much interest in giving exchanges
more discretion in this area, he said by phone.  “This is a significant event to the industry,” according
to Joseph Mecane, head of U.S. equities at New York-based NYSE
Euronext, who said in a phone interview that dialogue should
continue about the rules for clearly erroneous executions. “A
lot of CEE discussion centers on the tradeoff between discretion
and certainty for the industry.”  Mecane said the exchange operator doesn’t immediately see
anything “obvious” that should be changed.  Knight’s mishap came as brokers are pushing exchanges to
take on more liability for their own system breakdowns when they
cause financial losses for member firms or customers. Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. bungled the initial public offering of Facebook Inc.
on May 18 and Bats Global Markets Inc. botched its own IPO on
March 23, causing it to withdraw its shares from the public the
same day.  Customer Effect  While Bats minimized the effect on customers by canceling
all of its trades that day, Nasdaq OMX’s technology error led to
hours of confusion among investors and brokers about whether or
not they had received trades. Knight lost $35.4 million because
of trading related to the  Facebook IPO , while Chicago-based
Citadel LLC lost as much as $35 million in its market-making
unit, according to a person with knowledge of the firm.  Nasdaq OMX plans to reimburse its members up to $62 million
for losses related to the Facebook IPO, the New York-based
company said July 20. The cap on Nasdaq Stock Market’s liability
stemming from specific technology errors and malfunctions it
causes is $3 million, according to the exchange’s rules, and the
higher payout is voluntary. Exchanges have immunity from losses
related to activity they undertake as part of their duties as
SEC-registered self-regulatory organizations.  Exchange Liability  “Broker-dealers take on a lot of liability and they
question why exchanges, given their capacity as for-profit
market participants, essentially have a regulatory liability
protection,” Sifma’s Lazo said. “This is a good time to take a
look at those rules and the purpose they serve and whether they
ought to be changed.”  Sifma told the SEC in a 2007  letter  that the commission
should “re-evaluate the rules governing exchanges and market
center liability” in light of system errors that had caused
losses for brokers and their customers. The group said it was
“very concerned” about the limitation of liability for
exchanges as those operators were becoming for-profit companies.  Nasdaq OMX told the SEC in its July payout  proposal  that
its accommodation was “unprecedented in its size.” It added
that if exchanges face liability for “catastrophic losses,”
the need to plan for that would be “reflected in the fees
charged by exchanges to market participants in a manner that is
not currently the case, making trading more expensive for all
investors all the time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 