-- New Life for Old IPads, From B&O: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-08-22T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/new-life-for-old-ipads-from-b-o-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Here are three things you can do
with an old iPad: pass it along to a family member, sell it on
eBay or convert it into a great-sounding portable entertainment
system -- by spending more than it may have originally cost.  Bang & Olufsen (BO)  portrays its $549 BeoPlay A3 as an easy
solution for those times when you want bigger, better sound from
your iPad than the tiny, tinny speaker  Apple (AAPL)  builds in. As far
as “easy” goes, the A3 is pretty much a failure: It’s a royal
pain to dock and undock your tablet.  But the company’s marketers may not quite understand their
own product. Its real killer app turns out to be as a permanent
home for that unused iPad, turning it into a wireless mini
entertainment-and-information center you can take with you from
room to room.  The  wedge-shaped A3  measures 14 inches by 8 inches and is 3
inches at its thickest point. It tips the scales at a hefty 2.75
pounds, and that doesn’t even count the weight of the iPad
itself. In other words, the package is heavier than many
 notebook computers , and the happy people using it as a handheld
in B&O’s promotional photos probably couldn’t wait to put it
down as soon as the camera lights went off.  The BeoPlay is compatible with all three generations of
iPads, and you can, theoretically, pop your tablet out to take
with you if you’re going somewhere. In practice, however, it
isn’t something you’ll want to do often.  Sitting Snugly  The A3 comes with two rubber sleeves that fit around the
iPad and are designed to allow it to sit snugly in the dock, its
screen flush with the speaker enclosure. I had the easiest time
with the sleeve designed for the original, 2010 iPad, which
allowed it to slide fairly smoothly into the unit and hook up
with the retractable dock connector.  But I had trouble using the sleeve designed for the iPad 2
and the  current, third-generation iPad , both of which are
slightly thinner than the original tablet.  With the iPad 2, I had to line up the connector just so to
get the tablet to snap properly into place. And the current
iPad, which is fractionally thicker than its immediate
predecessor, was a real struggle.  Several times, I thought I had it properly aligned, only to
turn it on and discover the iPad sounded even worse than usual
because the A3 audio connection hadn’t been made and the housing
was covering the tablet’s built-in speaker.  Redesign  Bang & Olufsen says it is aware of the problems and has
redesigned the sleeve to work better with the newer models.
Still, it’s tiresome to put it on every time you want to dock
your iPad. And when you undock the tablet to take it with you
somewhere, you’re faced with the problem of what to do with the
sleeve once you remove it.  At about this point, I was tempted to consign the BeoPlay
to the pile of the overpriced and underthought. But a funny
thing happened. Once I finally got it working right, I started
warming to it.  For one thing, there’s the audio quality, which is
terrific. The A3 features a two-inch woofer for a nice rich
bass, but what’s really interesting are the half-inch tweeters,
particularly how they’re deployed.  There are three of them, but only two are in use at any
time. Which two are determined by a built-in accelerometer, the
same kind of sensor that reorients a phone or tablet’s screen
depending on whether it’s being held in landscape or portrait
mode.  Firing Tweeters  In the case of the A3, the accelerometer senses whether
it’s positioned horizontally or vertically, then chooses the two
tweeters that should fire for the best stereo effect. The
reorientation is both instantaneous and seamless.  In addition, the A3’s design -- so inappropriate for
handheld use -- turns out to be pretty good for desk-, table- or
countertops. In the kitchen, for example, you can put it in
landscape mode to watch a TV episode via the iPad’s  Hulu Plus 
app, then flip it into portrait mode to use as an electronic
recipe-book holder. On a nightstand, you might want to position
it vertically to minimize the amount of space it takes up and
use it as a giant alarm clock and digital picture frame.  The A3’s internal battery provides five or more hours of
wireless operation, depending on whether it needs to recharge
your iPad at the same time. Plugging it into a wall outlet will
juice up both the dock and the tablet.  If you have only one iPad and you want a speaker you can
easily dock and undock it with, look somewhere else. But if you
have an older iPad gathering dust somewhere -- or are looking
for an extra rationalization to help justify buying a new one --
the A3 is worth considering.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Jeffrey Burke on  books  and James S.
Russell on  architecture .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 