-- New Mexico Scandal Cancels Bond Sales as Cities Borrow Elsewhere
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-08-22T04:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/new-mexico-scandal-cancels-bond-sales-as-cities-borrow-elsewhere.html
Cities and school districts in 
 New Mexico  may face higher borrowing costs and have to scale
back or delay projects after a scandal involving a phony audit
halted bond sales by the state lending agency.  The New Mexico Finance Authority has  used its  favorable 
ratings to sell securities for billions of dollars in public
public works over the past two decades. It canceled $145 million 
in bond issues and stopped funding larger loan requests after 
officials discovered its 2011 financial audit had been falsified
said the agency's chief financial strategist, Michael Zavelle.  The authority's chief operating officer and former 
controller were arrested earlier this month. Moody’s Investors 
Service and Standard and Poor’s have put the agency’s ratings 
under review for possible downgrade as investigations continue 
in New Mexico, the state with the nation’s worst-performing economy.
Local governments are trying to secure alternative financing for
projects ranging from a dam in the small city of  Las Vegas  to
infrastructure for a delayed housing development in  Albuquerque .  “Clearly, this has not benefited anyone, and I think many
entities across the state are in some way negatively impacted,”
Zavelle said. “There is a broader impact: when you see these
kinds of things coming out of the state of New Mexico, people
wonder about how the whole state is run.”  Recovery Lags  The scandal at the lending agency, which was at the center
of a pay-to-play investigation in 2008 involving then-Governor
Bill Richardson, comes as New Mexico’s economic recovery lags
behind the rest of the nation. Over the past year, New Mexico’s
economy ranked the worst of the 50 states, according to the
Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States. There has been little
job growth in New Mexico, where almost 51,000 jobs were shed
from the peak in April 2008 to September 2010. It has added back
only 2,800 jobs.  Employment losses in the construction sector have been
particularly severe. From June 2006 to December 2011, nearly
one-third of construction workers lost their jobs. The total
number of people in New Mexico employed in construction declined
by 18,800 over this period, and the state has since only added
back 2,000 of these jobs.  “This is not good news for the construction sector,
particularly in some of the smaller communities,” said Jeffrey
Mitchell, senior research scientist at the  Bureau of Business
and Economic Research  at the University of New Mexico.
“Economically, we are looking at very small communities where
individual projects can be relatively small by other standards
but can be impactful. It is going to slow and postpone the kind
of projects that are really needed right now.”  Poverty Level  The per capita income in New Mexico was $33,368 in 2010,
one of the lowest in the nation, ranking it 46th out of 50
states. And more residents live below the poverty level -- 18.4
percent in New Mexico, compared to 13.8 percent nationally,
 according to  the U.S. Census Bureau.  Cities and other entities that planned to finance projects
through the agency are weighing their options and still trying
to figure out what to do, said William Fulginiti, executive
director of the  New Mexico Municipal League , who also serves on
the NMFA board. Some may try to wait until the finance authority
can go to the  bond market  and start funding larger projects
again -- which Zavelle said the finance authority hopes could
happen as early as next spring, after new audits are completed.
If they have projects that can’t wait, governments will look for
their own financing, potentially taking a hit on cost, Fulginiti
said.  ‘More Money’  “My fear is that it is going to cost them more money,”
Fulginiti said. “And the fact that it will cost them more money
may mean lesser projects or lesser number of projects. We’re
worried about that.”  Fulginiti said he knows of one city considering a loan with
an interest rate almost double what it was expecting from the
NMFA, which has a AAA rating from S&P and Aa1 rating from
Moody’s on its senior liens. Both agencies are weighing a
downgrade, which could mean higher borrowing costs in the
future.  James Breeding, an S&P credit analyst in  Dallas , said the
rating company is awaiting the results of a forensic audit now
underway and other investigations to see if there are findings,
such as a systemic lack of financial oversight, that could
warrant a downgrade.  The scandal at the agency came to light in July after the
state auditor flagged officials to a missing audit. Gregory
Campbell, the agency’s former controller, and John Duff, the
agency’s current chief operating officer who was Campbell’s
supervisor, were arrested Aug. 8 on allegations they provided
false information to potential bond investors.  Criminal Charges  Campbell, 52, is charged with forgery,  securities fraud ,
racketeering and conspiracy, according to a criminal complaint
filed Aug. 7 in New Mexico state court in  Santa Fe . Duff, 70, is
charged as an accessory to securities fraud and racketeering as
well as with conspiracy.  According to the complaint, Campbell admitted he forged the
agency’s 2011 audit report by copying and pasting the letterhead
and signatures from the 2010 audit report. The phony audit was
part of the official statement for a $24.3 million bond issue in
March. Campbell is also accused of, with the knowledge and
permission of Duff, “cooking the books” by concealing a loss
of $40 million in agency revenue in 2010 and 2011, according to
the complaint.  David Freedman, a lawyer for Duff, didn’t return a call for
comment on the allegations. Campbell doesn’t have a lawyer,
according to S.U. Mahesh, a spokesman for the New Mexico
Regulation and Licensing Department, which brought the
complaint. A call to a number listed for Campbell in Albuquerque
wasn’t returned. No arraignment has been scheduled yet, Mahesh
said.  Earlier Scandal  The scandal isn’t the first to embroil the NMFA. In 2008,
it was at the center of an investigation into whether  Beverly
Hills ,  California , financial adviser CDR Financial Products won
business from the agency after making contributions to
Richardson’s political committees. The  Justice Department  didn’t
file criminal charges against Richardson after the year-long
probe by a federal grand jury, which prompted the Democrat to
withdraw from consideration to be President  Barack Obama ’s
commerce secretary.  ‘Muted Reaction’  So far, the current scandal is eliciting “muted reaction”
in the market, said Josh Gonze, portfolio manager at  Thornburg
Investment Management  in Santa Fe, which oversees $7 billion in
municipal bonds. Investors are demanding 0.30 to 0.40 percentage
point of additional yield for NMFA bonds. The debt typically
traded at 0.30 percentage point more than top-rated bond and now
it’s trading at 0.60 to 0.70 percentage point more, he said.  “It’s one of those issues where there’s uncertainty
regarding how seriously to take this,” Gonze said.  The finance authority suspended loans above $5 million
earlier this month, allowing it to use $25 million in cash on
hand to continue to help towns buy fire equipment and finance
other small projects, Zavelle said. Still, those projects will
have to be weighed carefully or “it is quite possible we could
be out of money in four months,” he said.  Among more than $294 million in larger projects on the
agency’s radar that were put on hold was a $27 million project
to build infrastructure for a 500-lot home development that had
already been stalled for a decade in Albuquerque. Michael
Riordan, the director for municipal development, said the city
sought out private financing and was surprised to get an offer
with terms similar to what they could get from the finance
authority.  Moving Forward  Smaller cities don’t expect to be so lucky. Dan Dible, the
city manager of Gallup in the western part of the state, said
his city is moving forward with refunding two bond issues of
more than $20 million each that it had hoped to refinance
through the NMFA. While the city won’t get as good of a rate, it
can’t afford to wait, he said.  “We know we won’t do as well,” Dible said. “We don’t
want to wait out NMFA because we have no idea how long it is
going to take and this market is so good we are going to go
after it now.”  In Las Vegas, New Mexico, a city of 14,000 northeast of
Santa Fe, city manager Timothy Dodge said it may have no choice
but to pay a higher interest rate to reconstruct a leaking dam.
Though construction is at least six months out, the city is
weighing other options, including working directly with private
banks. That will likely mean higher  interest rates  than going
through the finance authority, he said.  “The finance authority has always been an asset to local
government here in New Mexico,” Dodge said. “It is going to
impact the state.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  