-- NFL Sued by Travelers Over Defending Player Injury Suits
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-08-22T22:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/nfl-sued-by-travelers-over-defending-player-injury-suits.html
The  National Football League  was
sued by  Travelers Cos. (TRV) , which is seeking to avoid having to
defend the league against ex-players’ concussion-related
lawsuits.  Units of the New York-based insurer said in documents filed
today in New York state  Supreme Court  in  Manhattan  that they are
obligated to defend NFL Properties, the league’s marketing
company, not the league itself.  “Travelers has the right and duty to defend NFL Properties
under the Travelers Primary NFL Properties Policies with respect
to any ‘suit’ seeking ‘damages’ that are potentially within the
coverage of those policies,” the companies said in the suit.
“Travelers is not, however, required to defend or participate
in the defense of the NFL.”  The NFL sued more than 30 insurance companies in California
state court in  Los Angeles  last week, accusing them of refusing
to pay for the defense of lawsuits over head injuries. The
league said it is a defendant in at least 143 suits by former
players and their wives.  “Last week, the NFL filed a comprehensive lawsuit in
California against 32 insurers to ensure an orderly and
comprehensive determination of its insurance rights and its
carriers’ obligations,”  Greg Aiello , a spokesman for the
league, said in an e-mail. “This new filing by Travelers does
not alter our objectives.”  Negligence Accusation  The NFL is accused of negligence and failing to inform
players of the link between repeated traumatic head impacts and
long-term brain injuries, including early onset of Alzheimer’s,
dementia and chronic traumatic encephalopathy, according to a
so-called master complaint filed June 7 in federal court in
Philadelphia, where 80 cases are consolidated.  The Travelers suit also names two dozen other insurers as
defendants, including Alterra American Insurance Co., a division
of Hamilton, Bermuda-based  Alterra Capital Holdings Ltd. (ALTE)  that
filed a similar lawsuit against the NFL in New York state
Supreme Court last week.  The insurers named as defendants may dispute Travelers’
position and may seek contribution from the company for defense
costs or indemnity paid under policies issued to the NFL and/or
NFL Properties, and Travelers may also seek contributions from
those insurers, according to the complaint filed today.  The case is Discovery Property & Casualty Co. v. National
Football League, 652933/2012, New York state Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 