-- Nissan Hires Top Car Reviewer of Consumer Reports
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-08-22T23:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/nissan-hires-top-car-reviewer-of-consumer-reports.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  said it’s hiring
the senior auto reviewer for Consumer Reports magazine to be the
carmaker’s new executive adviser on vehicle quality.  David Champion , senior director of  Consumer Reports Auto
Test Center , will work at Nissan’s vehicle testing center in
Stanfield, Arizona, the company said yesterday in a statement.
Champion, who worked as a Nissan engineer from 1994 to 1997,
will report to Steve Monk, Nissan’s director of vehicle
evaluation and testing, the Yokohama, Japan-based company said.  “The auto industry likes to downplay Consumer Reports’
influence, but consumers have a different view,” said Alan Baum, principal of auto-industry forecaster Baum & Associates in
West Bloomfield, Michigan. “Nissan has positioned itself as a
design leader among the Japanese automakers, but over time
design alone becomes less groundbreaking. Others catch up. You
have to focus on mundane issues like quality.”  The hiring of  Consumer Reports ’ Champion, who has
recommended Nissan’s Altima sedan as the magazine’s top pick
among midsize sedans, is part of a push by the second-biggest
Japanese carmaker to be viewed as an industry quality leader as
competition with  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  Honda Motor
Co. (7267)  and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  intensifies.  “His experience in developing robust testing methods will
help Nissan keep pace with the increasing complexity of our
products and stay focused on continually improving our customer
satisfaction ratings,” Carla Bailo, Nissan’s senior vice
president for North American research and development, said in
the statement.  Champion’s first day at Nissan is Sept. 10,  Katherine Zachary , a company spokeswoman, said in a phone interview.  Favorable Evaluations  Consumer Reports, published by nonprofit  Consumers Union ,
is among the most influential vehicle guides in the U.S.
Carmakers seek favorable  evaluations  from the publication as its
reviews are considered the most objective because of policies of
accepting no advertising and buying every vehicle it tests.  Positive reviews by the Yonkers, New York-based publication
for Toyota and Honda vehicles in the 1980s helped those
companies develop a reputation for vehicle quality. Reviews led
by Champion singled out products including Honda’s 2012 Civic
sedan last year and Toyota’s new Prius c subcompact in May as
vehicles buyers should avoid.  Honda has said it’s modifying Civic, the top-selling small
car in the U.S. this year, for 2013 to address some of the
magazine’s criticisms, including interior materials and cabin
noise.  Champion’s Replacements  Two senior Consumer Reports engineers, Jennifer Stockburger
and Jake Fisher, have been promoted to take over Champion’s
testing duties, said Douglas Love, a spokesman for the magazine.  The magazine is “grateful” for Champion’s contribution to
the organization, Liam McCormack, Consumer Reports’ vice
president and technical director, said in a statement yesterday.
“He has helped transform Consumer Reports’ Auto Testing
operations during his 15 years here and become an influential
voice in the autos space.”  Separately, Nissan is recalling 7,842 units of its new
Infiniti JX35 luxury crossover vehicle, the  National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration  said yesterday on its  website . The
recall is to fix faulty fuel gauges on the Smyrna, Tennessee-
built vehicles, NHTSA said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  