-- No Lame Cattle Found in Food Supply From California Plant
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-08-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/no-lame-cattle-found-in-food-supply-from-california-plant.html
Undercover video of inhumane
handling at Central Valley Meat Co., a  California  slaughterhouse
that supplies beef to the nation’s school lunch program, doesn’t
show injured “downer” cattle entering the  food supply , U.S.
regulators said.  The Agriculture Department is investigating whether cattle
that were too sick to stand or walk were slaughtered, a
practiced banned because of the risks for mad cow disease, after
receiving a video from an animal welfare group that showed
mistreatment of the cows.  “Our top priority is to ensure the safety of the food
Americans feed their families,” Alfred Almanza, administrator
of the department’s  Food Safety and Inspection Service , said
yesterday in a statement. “We have reviewed the video and
determined that, while some of the footage provided shows
unacceptable treatment of cattle, it does not show anything that
would compromise food safety. Therefore, we have not
substantiated a  food safety  violation at this time.”  Cattle that can’t walk any time prior to slaughter must be
humanely euthanized and discarded so as not to enter the food
supply. The facility in Hanford, California, was shut down Aug.
19 after regulators received video of slaughter practices and
confirmed “inhumane handling violations,” the agency said on
Aug. 20. No meat has been recalled.  Downed and spent dairy cows stumbling and struggling to
walk are shown in the video seen by Bloomberg News from the
Washington-based group, Compassion Over Killing. Workers are
shown pulling or lifting the livestock by their tails.  Video Footage  The footage was taken over two weeks from June 18 to July 2
with a hidden camera showing actions, such as excessive force to
get animals to move, that violate federal guidelines aimed at
protecting the food supply, Erica Meier, executive director of
Compassion Over Killing, said in an interview.  “We believe they violated the guidelines,” she said.  The animal-rights group’s methods are similar to how the
 Humane Society  of the U.S. obtained undercover video that led to
the 2008 recall of 143 million pounds of meat from
Westland/Hallmark Meat Co., also a supplier to the U.S. school
lunch program. That recall occurred partly because of concern
that downed cattle had been slaughtered.  The Central Valley plant was shut down because the USDA
immediately suspended the assignment of inspectors to the
establishment and is withholding marks of inspection necessary
for sale. All handling activities are done under continuous
inspection by USDA personnel.  USDA Investigation  The USDA directed its  Office of the Inspector General  to
investigate the allegations. A team, including veterinarians who
specialize in humane handling, were sent to Central Valley Meat
to determine if egregious inhumane handling of livestock
occurred.  Brian Coelho, president of Central Valley Meat, said he
couldn’t comment on the video because it hadn’t been shared with
the company.  “We are extremely disturbed to be informed by the USDA
that inspection was suspended and our plant could not operate
based upon a videotape that was provided to the department by a
third party group that alleged inhumane treatment of animals on
our property,” Coelho said Aug. 20 in a statement.  A person answering the telephone yesterday at Central
Valley Meat declined to give their name or provide any
information about the company. Compassion Over Killing yesterday
posted video footage on its website.  There have been four cases in the U.S. of cattle with mad
cow disease, or bovine spongiform encephalopathy, with the most
recent discovery confirmed by the USDA on April 24 in a dairy
cow. The first was discovered in December 2003, and U.S. beef
exports tumbled 82 percent to 460.3 million pounds during the
next 12 months as dozens of countries banned the product,
government data show. Most trade has resumed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  