-- Nobel Biocare Profit Beats Analysts’ Estimates on Cost Cuts
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-08-22T15:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/nobel-biocare-second-quarter-beats-estimates-on-cuts-correct-.html
Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN) , the
world’s second-biggest maker of dental implants, reported profit
that beat analysts’ estimates after the company reduced costs
and sales were boosted by a weaker euro.  Earnings before interest and taxes were 21.6 million euros
($26.9 million) in the second quarter, compared with 22.4
million euros a year earlier, the Glattbrugg, Switzerland based-
company said in a statement today. Analysts had expected 20.3
million euros, according to the average of 13  estimates  in a
Bloomberg survey.  Nobel Biocare is retraining sales staff and developing new
products in a bid to regain market share lost to  Straumann
Holding AG (STMN)  over the last few years amid management changes and a
disappointing sales start for its Procera implant design system.  “We are aware the market is softening and have already
made adjustments for that,” Chief Executive Officer Richard Laube said during a conference call today.  Revenue increased to 149 million euros from 142.9 million
euros, missing the 152.6-million-euro average estimate of 15
analysts.  Nobel Biocare gained 0.5 percent to 9.22 Swiss francs in
Zurich trading, giving the company a market value of 1.14
billion francs ($1.18 billion).  Challenging Market  Markets developed “less favorably than anticipated”
during the first half of the year and the economic situation in
many countries will probably remain challenging, Nobel Biocare
said in the statement. The company still forecasts earnings
before interest and taxes this year will be in line with 2011
and now says it expects sales “in line with the market”
compared with a previous forecast for “modest” revenue growth
at constant exchange rates.  Straumann, the market leader by sales, dropped the most in
almost four years in Zurich trading yesterday after first-half
profit missed analysts’ estimates. The company now expects the
overall dental implant market will be stable “at best” this
year and may contract.  Nobel Biocare’s profit was above expectations and a
“positive surprise” following Straumann’s results yesterday,
Oliver Metzger, an analyst with Commerzbank AG, said in an
interview.  “It’s important to mention that the business performed in
line with the market, which shows the company had achieved the
turnaround,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  