-- Obama, Romney Get Physical in Game Aimed at Voter Turnout
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-08-22T21:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/obama-romney-get-physical-in-game-aimed-at-voter-turnout.html
Barack Obama  and  Mitt Romney ’s
battle for the White House enters the fantasy realm of hand-to-
hand combat in a new  video game  for Apple devices that’s meant
to increase voter turnout.  The candidates wield lightsabers and baton-like
microphones, facing off on the debate stage, the White House
lawn and finally battling for control of the Oval Office in
“Vote,” from Epic Games Inc.’s Chair Entertainment. The
company is offering the game free on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s  App Store . It
lets iPod, iPhone and iPads users pick the president or his
Republican challenger, Technical Director Geremy Mustard said.  Chair Entertainment, maker of the popular “Infinity
Blade” sword-fighting game, goes a step beyond political satire
by working with Washington-based Rock the Vote for the first in-
game attempt to register thousands of young people to cast a
ballot this November.  “Gamers are a pretty hard audience to reach, and the game
is a really fun way to keep people engaged in the political
process these next critical two months,” Mustard said in an
interview.  Users click a button on-screen and are taken to  Rock the
Vote ’s online voter registration form, which must be filled out,
printed, signed and sent to state election offices, said Chrissy
Faessen, a spokeswoman. Rock the Vote has set a goal of
registering 1.5 million new voters this year, she said.  The partnership includes a link to Project Vote Smart,
which offers non-partisan information on federal and state
candidates, ballot measures and social and economic issues,
Faessen said.  Weapons Upgrades  “They’re looking at what either candidate can do to help
improve their future,” Faessen said. “We’re thrilled to be a
partner here to get the conversation going.”  Officials for the Obama and Romney campaigns didn’t respond
to e-mailed requests for comment.  While the game is free, users pay as much $10 for all of
the upgraded weapons and outfits that include ’70s-era disco
suits, “Super Prez” superhero costumes and boxing gear,
Creative Director Donald Mustard said. Some of the proceeds will
go to Rock the Vote.  Actors mimic the voices of Obama and Romney, though most of
the humor comes from the soundtrack and fighting as they battle
in 75-second bouts. Strikes win users points, including big
bonuses for multiple hits.  Winning Votes  Players fight for points, which unlock votes. If a user
wins a bout with more than 10,000 points, the candidate gets one
vote. It rises to two votes for scores above 75,000 and three
for 250,000 or more.  Players will vote online for their favorite candidate and
see a running tally until Nov. 6, Donald Mustard said.  “Every time an election happens, it feels like the nation
gets divided and it’s a little more mean-spirited,” he said.
“We want to encourage people to participate without being
alienated from the process.”  Tom Neumayr , an Apple spokesman, declined to comment on the
game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  