-- Oil Gains on U.S. Stockpile Drop, Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2012-08-23T12:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/oil-trades-near-three-month-high-on-u-s-stockpiles-fed-minutes.html
Oil rose to a three-month high in
New York amid speculation that central banks in the U.S. and
China will ease monitory policy to stimulate growth.  West Texas Intermediate added as much as 1.1 percent after
minutes of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s last meeting showed many
policy makers favor more stimulus unless the economic recovery
picks up. People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said
adjustments to  interest rates  and banks’ reserve requirements
are still possible. Futures pared gains after a report showed
U.S. jobless claims rose for a second week.  “All the bad news for the economy is good news because it
means we are that much closer to quantitative easing,” said
Torbjoern Kjus, an oil analyst at DNB ASA in Oslo. “The Chinese
will likely do it because the leadership does not want to
transfer power without securing the economy first.”  Oil for October delivery gained as much as $1.03 to $98.29
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest since May 4. The contract was at $97.42,
up 16 cents, at 1:39 p.m. London time. Prices are 1.4 percent
lower this year.  Brent oil for October settlement advanced 1 percent to $116
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade’s premium to WTI was at $18.56, from
$17.65 yesterday.  Fuel Stockpiles  Oil is extending its rally in New York after rising above
long-term technical resistance. Futures yesterday settled higher
than the 200-day moving average for the first time since May 10,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors typically buy
contracts when chart resistance is breached.  Members at the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s gathering
that ended Aug. 1 indicated monetary easing will be needed
“fairly soon” unless there are signs of a durable economic
pickup, the minutes showed. Many participants said a new large-
scale asset-purchase program “could provide additional support
for the economic recovery.”  Zhou’s comments in Beijing leave the door open for further
monetary stimulus after the People’s Bank of China added 220
billion  yuan  ($34.6 billion) to the banking system via reverse-
 repurchase agreements  yesterday. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
last week that easing inflation allows more room to adjust
monetary policy.  The fifth generation of leaders since  Mao Zedong  led
China’s 1949 revolution will be appointed to take the helm of
the Communist Party later this year.  Storm Isaac  Tropical Storm Isaac “slightly weakened” today as it
moved into the Caribbean Sea, the National Hurricane Center
said, based on reconnaissance data collected by an Air Force
Reserve aircraft.  Isaac, the ninth named storm of the Atlantic hurricane
season that runs through November, was 225 miles (360
kilometers) south-southeast of San Juan,  Puerto Rico , the Miami-
based center said in an advisory at 8 a.m. Atlantic time. The
storm, which may reach southern Florida on Aug. 27, is forecast
to strengthen over the next two days and could become a
hurricane.  The U.S. and China are the world’s biggest oil users,
accounting for a combined 32 percent of the world’s consumption,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  The number of Americans filing applications for
 unemployment benefits  climbed last week to a one-month high,
showing little progress in the labor market.  Jobless claims rose by 4,000 for a second week to reach
372,000 in the period ended Aug. 18, Labor Department figures
showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of 41 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for 365,000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  