-- Oil Near Three-Month High in New York Amid Supply Risks
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-08-22T12:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/oil-trades-near-three-month-high-in-new-york-amid-supply-risks.html
Oil dropped from its highest close
in three days in  London  as concern that demand will weaken
countered signs of shrinking supply in the U.S., the world’s
biggest crude consumer.  Brent dropped as much as 1 percent after Japan’s trade
deficit widened more than expected as Europe’s debt crisis and a
slowdown in China dragged down exports. An Energy Department
report today may show U.S. crude supplies slid by 250,000
barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey. United Nations
nuclear inspectors and Iran agreed to meet again over access to
disputed documents, people and sites allegedly linked to the
Persian Gulf country’s nuclear program.  “Oil is going to be caught in a tug-of-war range until the
issues of geopolitical turbulence or economic slump are
resolved,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at
Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London. “Ultimately, bullish factors
such as tension over Iran, instability in the wider  Middle East 
and good economic growth in  emerging markets  will win out, but
for now the market will be range-bound.”  Brent oil for October settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $113.93 a barrel, down 71 cents,
as of 1:24 p.m. local time. Yesterday, it settled at $114.64,
the highest since Aug. 16. The European benchmark crude was at a
$17.25 premium to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade,
from $17.80 yesterday.  Crude for October delivery was at $96.69 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , down 15
cents. The September contract, which expired yesterday, rose 71
cents to $96.68, the highest close since May 10. Front-month
prices are 2.2 percent lower this year.  Nuclear Inspectors  Japan’s trade shortfall was 517.4 billion yen ($6.5
billion), after a revised 60.3 billion yen surplus in June, the
 Finance Ministry  said in Tokyo today.  International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors will meet on
Aug. 24 at the Iranian embassy in Vienna, the IAEA said late
yesterday in a statement. It is the first meeting since talks
over a so-called structured approach to the atomic investigation
broke down two months ago.  Oil’s rally in  New York  may stall as a technical indicator
shows futures have risen too quickly for further gains to be
sustained, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 14-day
relative strength index is near 70, the highest reading since
February. Crude also has chart resistance along its 200-day
moving average around $96.74 a barrel today. The front-month
contract yesterday traded higher than this indicator without
settling above it.  Energy Department  Crude inventories dropped by 6 million barrels last week to
361 million, the industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute 
said. U.S. gasoline inventories climbed 869,000 barrels last
week, according to the API. The Energy Department report may
show supplies slipped  1.4 million barrels , according to the
Bloomberg survey. Distillate stockpiles, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, fell 1 million barrels in the
API report compared with a forecast 1 million-barrel gain in the
survey.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
report at 10:30 a.m. Washington time.  Finance Ministers  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , head of the
group of euro-area finance ministers, visits  Athens  today to
listen to a request by Greece’s Prime Minister, Antonis Samaras,
for a two-year extension to the country’s fiscal-adjustment
program. French President  Francois Hollande  and German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  meet in Berlin tomorrow. Concessions
are possible for Greece if it shows a willingness to meet the
main targets in its bailout,  Norbert Barthle , a senior lawmaker
with Merkel’s government, said yesterday.  Tropical Storm Isaac, the ninth named storm of the  Atlantic
hurricane season , has top sustained winds of 45 miles (72
kilometers) an hour, is expected to move across the Leeward
Islands today and into the Caribbean Sea, where it may become a
hurricane tomorrow, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said.  Hurricane watches were posted for the British Virgin
Islands. The system is 210 miles east of Guadeloupe and moving
west at 19 mph.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  