-- Oil Rises to Three-Month High as Supplies Decline
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-08-22T20:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/oil-declines-from-three-month-high-on-japan-trade-deficit.html
Crude rose to a three-month high
after U.S. inventories tumbled and Federal Reserve meeting
minutes showed many policy makers backed enacting more stimulus
measures soon.  Prices gained 0.4 percent as the Energy Department said
supplies dropped to a five-month low last week. Members
indicated at the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s gathering three
weeks ago that monetary easing will be needed “fairly soon”
unless there are signs of a durable economic pickup, the record
released today showed.  “The crude drop is bigger than expected and the inventory
report is a little bullish,” said  Michael Lynch , president of
Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts . “The Fed minutes showed that we might have some
stimulus, which will push up asset prices.”  Oil for October delivery rose 42 cents to $97.26 on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since May 7.
Prices have rallied 25 percent from this year’s settlement low
of $77.69 on June 28.  Brent crude  for October settlement increased 27 cents to
end the session at $114.91 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  Oil  stockpiles  dropped 5.41 million barrels to 360.7
million in the week ended Aug. 17, the Energy Department
reported. It was the lowest level since March 23 and the fourth
consecutive decline. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast
supplies would drop 250,000 barrels last week.  Imports of oil declined for the first time in three weeks,
slipping 5.9 percent to 8.21 million barrels a day.  ‘Lower Imports’  “The crude draw was much bigger than expected and that’s
the driving force of the market,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of
commodities research at IAF Advisors in Houston. “The crude
draw is primarily due to lower imports.”  Gasoline inventories  fell 962,000 barrels to 202.7 million
versus a forecast decrease of 1.35 million barrels. Distillate
supplies, which include heating oil and diesel, rose 992,000
barrels, near the predicted gain of 1 million.  Total petroleum  demand  decreased 6.4 percent to 18.7
million barrels a day. Gasoline  consumption  slid 2.4 percent to
9.08 million.  “The drop in crude inventories is quite big,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com
in  Chicago . “The lower demand numbers don’t bode well for
higher  oil prices .”  Refinery utilization slid to the lowest level since June 1,
falling to 91.2 percent from 92.6 percent, the report showed.  Fed Minutes  Many participants at the Fed’s meeting said that a new
large-scale asset-purchase program “could provide additional
support for the economic recovery,” according to the minutes.
The FOMC said in a statement after the meeting ended Aug. 1 that
it will pump fresh stimulus into the economy if needed to spur
growth and cut the jobless rate.  The central bank bought a total of $2.3 trillion in bonds
from December 2008 to June 2011 to stimulate the economy in two
rounds of asset purchases known as quantitative easing.  Oil also gained on concern that storms would move into the
 Gulf of Mexico  and disrupt supplies. Tropical Storm Isaac may
grow into a hurricane on a path toward the west coast of
 Florida , the U.S. National Hurricane Center said.  The center’s tracking map shows the system crossing Haiti
on Aug. 24 and striking Cuba before arriving at the Florida
coast below Cape Coral on Aug. 27.  Isaac , the ninth named storm of the  Atlantic hurricane
season , was about to cross the Leeward Islands as of 2 p.m. East
Coast time on its way into the Caribbean Sea, the Miami-based
center said  in an advisory .  Middle East  Oil has rallied 10 percent this month on concern escalating
tension in the  Middle East  may disrupt supplies. Lebanon’s Prime
Minister  Najib Mikati  expressed concern over “attempts to
involve Lebanon more and more in the current conflict in
Syria,” according to his official website.  “The market continues to look at what’s going on in the
Middle East,” said Marshall Berol, co-portfolio manager of the
Encompass Fund in  San Francisco , which has about $300 million in
assets. “A lot of the inventory numbers have been built into
the market.”  The Middle East produced 33 percent of the world’s oil last
year and held 79 percent of proved reserves, according to  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy, released in June.  In Nigeria, oil workers grouped under the National Union of
Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers, or Nupeng, plan to start a
national strike tomorrow to protest delays in subsidy payments
to fuel importers and retailers, an official said.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 393,340
contracts as of 3:30 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 502,822
contracts yesterday, 7.8 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.47 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  