-- Oracle Must Face Suit Over Buyout of Ellison’s Pillar
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-08-22T16:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/oracle-must-face-suit-over-buyout-of-ellison-s-pillar.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s directors must face
investor claims that they wrongfully agreed to buy Pillar Data
Systems Inc., a company controlled by Oracle Chief Executive
Officer  Larry Ellison , a judge concluded.  The Oracle  shareholders  have raised legitimate questions
about the company’s 2011 purchase of Pillar, a closely held
provider of data-storage systems, and can proceed with their
lawsuit against the board, Delaware Chancery Judge Leo Strine in
Wilmington ruled today. Ellison,  Redwood City , California-based
Oracle’s founder, owns a 55 percent stake in Pillar.  The investors have properly raised questions about whether
the purchase “was a legitimate deal and whether somebody could
have gotten a better deal” for them, Strine said at a hearing.  Oracle, the world’s largest maker of  database software ,
bought  San Jose , California-based  Pillar  in June 2011 in a deal
that required no compensation up-front and allowed for an
“earn-out” payment based on Pillar’s performance over the next
three years, according to a  filing  with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Under the deal’s terms, the 68-year-old Oracle CEO’s
$544 million investment in the data-storage startup was
converted into preferred Pillar shares.  Those shares were canceled after the transaction closed in
exchange for rights to receive a portion of the earn-out payment
that may be made in 2014, the investors said in court filings
earlier this year.  Bailed Out?  The investors, pension funds in  Michigan  and  Pennsylvania 
that own Oracle shares, sued in  Delaware  last year challenging
the decision to acquire Pillar. They filed so-called derivative
suits against the board, which would return any recovery from
insurance covering the company’s officers and directors to
Oracle’s coffers.  The investors contend in court papers that Oracle directors
improperly used company resources to “bail out” Ellison from
his “horrible investment” in Pillar.  “Ellison got Oracle to agree to take over Ellison’s
investment, fund Pillar Data for the next three years, and pay
for that privilege by valuing Pillar Data at a point three years
down the road,” the investors said in a April 27 filing. “In
short, the transaction made no economic sense for Oracle. But it
made a lot of sense for Ellison.”  No Payment  Oracle’s directors, who include Ellison, said that the deal
was structured in a way that required no immediate payment for
Pillar to insure Ellison didn’t improperly benefit from the
acquisition. The so-called earn-out payment only will be made if
Pillar’s performance over a three-year period warrants it, they
said.  At this stage in the transaction, “Oracle has paid
nothing,” Michael Carroll, a New York-based lawyer for the
software maker, told the judge today. Investors shouldn’t be
able to challenge the deal until it’s clear the earn-out payment
will be made, he added.  Still, Oracle officials will have to spend money to cover
Pillar’s operating expenses over the three years, and that
damages investors,  Stuart Grant , a Wilmington-based lawyer for
the Oracle shareholders, told Strine.  “This company isn’t worth much,” Grant said. “The
problem is that Larry Ellison has sunk half a billion into it
and doesn’t want to keep personally funding it. It’s a lose-lose
situation for Oracle shareholders.”  The case is City of Roseville Employees’ Retirement System
v. Ellison, CA6900, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  