-- Osborne Doing ‘Too Little’ to Boost Growth, U.K. Business Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-08-22T08:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/osborne-doing-too-little-to-boost-growth-u-k-business-says.html
U.K. business leaders urged
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  to do more to boost
growth, arguing his government is doing “too little, too
slowly.”  A poll of 1,277 members of the Institute of Directors
published today by the London-based business lobby group found a
majority thought Prime Minister  David Cameron  and Osborne had
been “ineffective” at reducing tax, tackling regulations on
businesses and simplifying employment laws. The poll, which also
found that more than four out of 10 companies have delayed at
least one investment or employment decision this year due to
uncertainty, was carried out between July 26 and Aug. 3.  “We don’t want to see any slowdown in deficit reduction
but we do want to see much more aggressive supply-side action,”
IoD Chief Economist Graeme Leach told BBC 5Live radio today.  Osborne is under pressure after figures published yesterday
showed Britain unexpectedly posted a  budget deficit  in July as
corporation-tax receipts plunged, partly due to the closing of
the Elgin gas field in the  North Sea .  While the drop in revenue was largely centered on company
taxes, the U.K.’s struggle to climb out of a recession has
raised concerns that the chancellor will miss his forecast for a
deficit of 120 billion pounds ($190 billion) in the current
fiscal year. Osborne has resisted demands to ease the pace of
his fiscal squeeze, saying his plans have helped to insulate
Britain from the euro-area debt crisis.  ‘Immediate Stimulus’  The opposition  Labour Party  seized on the IoD’s report to
repeat its call for a package of measures to stimulate the
economy. Labour’s business spokesman, Chuka Umunna, described
the criticism from the IoD as “quite extraordinary.”  “What we saw was in the wake of the government’s
comprehensive spending review back in 2010, confidence
nosedived, but then demand and orders dried up, and that’s what
so many businesses are complaining about,” Umunna told Sky News
television. “We need an immediate stimulus package to get
demand back into the economy, to get those orders back, and then
we can reduce the numbers of people out of work.”  The Daily Mail newspaper reported today that the government
is planning to announce a series of measures to stimulate growth
including relaxing planning laws, increasing infrastructure
spending and revamping the Highways Agency, which oversees the
nation’s roads.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  has said there is a
“black cloud of uncertainty” hanging over investment, further
hindering the economy’s recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  