-- Patriot Coal Case Shouldn’t Be in New York, U.S. Says
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-08-22T21:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/patriot-coal-case-shouldn-t-be-in-new-york-u-s-says.html
Patriot (PCXCQ)  Coal Corp.’s bankruptcy case
should be moved out of  Manhattan  because the company can’t show
it didn’t create two new units with the sole purpose of avoiding
other bankruptcy courts, the U.S. said.  The case should be moved “in the interests of justice,”
said the U.S. Trustee, an arm of the  Justice Department  that
oversees bankruptcies. The trustee’s request, filed today in
Manhattan, where the coal producer’s Chapter 11 case is under
way, didn’t specify a new court and joins motions from objectors
who say St. Louis-based Patriot’s case should be heard in the
Southern District of West Virginia.  The West Virginia attorney general, the United Mine Workers
union, environmental regulators and insurance companies have all
said they support moving the case. They contend the company’s
only connection with  New York  came within five weeks of its
bankruptcy, when two subsidiaries were incorporated under that
state’s law.  “Although there are nearly 100 affiliated debtors in the
Patriot Coal cases, as recently as six weeks before the
bankruptcy filings, not a single (then existing) Patriot company
satisfied any of the requirements” for having a bankruptcy in
New York, wrote Tracy Hope Davis, the acting U.S. trustee.  The company created two non-operating units using the same
lawyers that they hired to represent them in bankruptcy “in an
apparent effort to meet the statutory requirements,” she said.  Appalachian Mines  Patriot has 12 active mining complexes in Appalachia and
the Illinois Basin and controls an estimated 1.9 billion tons of
coal reserves, according to court papers. It sells thermal coal
to electricity generators and metallurgical coal to steel and
coke producers.  The company’s facilities, employees, retirees and creditors
are largely located in  West Virginia , and conducting its
bankruptcy in New York makes it more difficult for the company’s
2,000 active employees and more than 10,000 retirees to
participate in the case, the United Mine Workers said. West
Virginia has a greater economic interest in the outcome of the
case, as most creditors are there, the union said in court
papers.  The Department of Natural Resources in  Kentucky  has joined
the mine worker’s motion, citing the company’s mining activities
in Kentucky, and the state of West Virginia has said it has an
interest in whether the company sells or abandons its property
in that state.  The case is In re Patriot Coal Corp., 12-bk-12900,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  