-- Paul Ryan Can Be a Catholic and Still Worship Ayn Rand
-- B y   W i l l   W i l k i n s o n
-- 2012-08-22T22:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/paul-ryan-can-be-a-catholic-and-still-worship-ayn-rand.html
U.S. Representative  Paul Ryan ,  Mitt
Romney ’s running mate on the Republican presidential ticket, has
said that  Ayn Rand , the author of “The Fountainhead” and “ Atlas
Shrugged ,” lit the inner fire that led him to public service.  Rand’s individualistic, free-market philosophy “taught me
quite a bit about who I am and what my value systems are, and
what my beliefs are,” the Wisconsin Republican  said  in a 2005
speech to a group of Rand’s devotees.  Trouble is, Rand was a staunch atheist, and Ryan is a
conservative Roman Catholic. When a few of Rand’s incendiary
comments about religion were lobbed his way, he repudiated her
aggressive secularism. “I reject her philosophy,” Ryan said in
an  interview  this year. “It’s an atheist philosophy. It reduces
human interactions down to mere contracts and it is antithetical
to my worldview. If somebody is going to try to paste a person’s
view on epistemology to me, then give me Thomas Aquinas. Don’t
give me  Ayn Rand .”  So if Rand is really so bad, how did she manage to work her
way into his personal pantheon? Ryan would ban abortion; Rand
held that “abortion is a moral right.” Ryan aims to save the
welfare state by putting it on a sound fiscal footing; Rand
would have eliminated it altogether. Why didn’t his robust
Catholicism reject all of  objectivism  -- Rand’s name for her
philosophy -- as a virulent strain of heresy?  Compatible Ethics  The truth is that the ethical philosophies of Rand and
 Aquinas , the titan of medieval Catholic philosophy, are more
simpatico than one might imagine. It’s telling that Ryan, in his
statement rejecting  Rand ’s philosophy, chose to draw a contrast
between Aquinas’s and Rand’s epistemologies -- their theories of
knowledge -- but not between their ethics. The former is where
the sharper difference lies.  This difference, naturally enough, does find expression in
their moral philosophies. As the philosopher  Douglas Rasmussen ,
a St. John’s University scholar of both Rand and Aquinas, told
me, “Ultimately, they differ in that Aquinas holds that the
ultimate good is God and that human beings cannot find
fulfillment in this world but only the next. Thus, Aquinas
requires that theological virtues must transform the natural
moral virtues.” Aquinas held (and Rand most certainly did not)
that without divine revelation, we fall short of ultimate truth.  That said, atheist and saint both build from the blueprint
of  Aristotle ’s virtue ethics, and thus the contours of their
moral philosophies are much the same. “Both Rand and Aquinas
believe that the key to understanding the moral good and moral
obligation is to be found in terms of what will be self-
actualizing,” Rasmussen says. “Both think that self-
actualization is to be understood in terms of human nature.”  For Aristotelians, self-actualization is a matter of
functioning well as the kind of creature one is. For humans,
that means consistently exercising habits of character, or
virtues, fine-tuned to realize the demands of reason, the
essential and definitive human capacity. Virtue ethics in the
Aristotelian vein differs from theories that begin with a rule
of right action (for example, obey divine commands, period;
never do things that would lead to disaster if everyone did
them), which then place limits on the pursuit of self-
realization.  For virtue ethicists such as Rand and Aquinas, the
individual human good comes first. Then rules of right conduct
are defined and justified in terms of their contribution to the
good. This priority of “the good” over “the right” puts the two
thinkers on the same team against the mainstream of moral
theorizing since the 18th century.  Channeling Aristotle  In “ Requiem for Man ,” a spirited 1967 attack on a papal
encyclical, Rand lavished praise on Aquinas and his onetime
primacy within the Catholic intellectual tradition. The Catholic
Church’s “long, illustrious philosophical history was
illuminated by a giant: Thomas Aquinas,” Rand wrote. “He brought
an Aristotelian view of reason (an Aristotelian epistemology)
back into European culture, and lighted the way to the
Renaissance.” She continued: “The grandeur of his thought almost
lifted the Church close to the realm of reason.”  Ryan’s Catholic hero, it turns out, was also a hero to
Rand.  Indeed, in early plans for her magnum opus, “ Atlas
Shrugged ,” Rand included a sympathetically drawn character who
was a Thomist priest, Father Amadeus. She intended for Amadeus
to gradually discover that religious faith hobbles rather than
complements reason, which is the springboard toward the full
realization of human potential, a state achieved by her story’s
romantic hero, John Galt. But Rand couldn’t make this subplot
work, so Father Amadeus was cut from an already overstuffed
book.  If we wish to understand how a wholehearted Catholic such
as Ryan might also harbor an affinity for Rand, we should look
to the ill-fated Father Amadeus for answers. Right-leaning
Catholics have long resisted the soft-socialist political
economy advocated by church leaders in  Rome . Ryan recently
 offered  a Catholic defense of his budget proposals in response
to a  stern attack  from the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops.
Ryan argued that big government is a misapplication of the
Catholic principle of solidarity, and threatens to harm rather
than help the vulnerable.  Moreover, Republican plans to cede federal power to state
and municipal government embodies the principle of
“subsidiarity,” or “respect for the relationships between
individuals and intermediate social groups.”  Yet it seems that a revisionist reading of Catholic social
principles can only get the Catholic capitalist so far. What’s
missing is a captivating, comprehensive moral vision, and that’s
exactly what Rand hawked.  Capitalist Faith  No doubt, when some conservative Catholics first encounter
Rand’s moral case for capitalism, they find her Aristotelian
language of virtue and self-realization both familiar and
attractive. Rand’s exciting argument that capitalism alone
creates the conditions for full human flourishing (for rich and
poor alike!) is most welcome to minds already inclined toward
free markets and limited government. If her argument dismisses
divinely revealed truth, she nevertheless lays it out in terms
that may seem to many right-leaning Christians, especially
Catholics, readily amenable to a faith-based reframing.  Purists both Randian and Roman will say that any such
synthesis of piety and profits is unstable. That was the point
of Father Amadeus, after all, whose Roman faith wavers in the
face of Randian reason. But the human capacity for sustaining an
equilibrium of incoherence is far greater than Rand allowed, and
rather less risky for the soul than the Vatican contends. Ryan’s
personal philosophy may be plagued by contradictions more severe
than any experienced by poor Father Amadeus, but they won’t be
his undoing, and they won’t get him written out of this
election’s story.  ( Will Wilkinson  blogs about American politics for the
Economist magazine. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why we still need  affirmative
action  and on why the Bundesbank should  put up or shut up ;
 Caroline Baum  on the free market not working for  health care ;
 Susan Crawford  on the consequences of the  Apple-Samsung  patent
case;  Ezra Klein  on  Romney’s vaporous Medicare  promise; Jonathan
Mahler on  football, concussions and ESPN ; William Silber on how
 Paul Volcker  restored the Fed’s  credibility on inflation .  To contact the writer of this article:
Will Wilkinson at  willwilkinson@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 