-- PayPal Piggybacks Discover in Push to Stores From Online
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-08-22T13:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/paypal-piggybacks-discover-in-push-to-stores-from-online.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal unit, an online
payments processor with more than 50 million U.S. customers, 
will expand acceptance of its service to brick-and-mortar stores
nationwide in an agreement with  Discover Financial Services. (DFS)   PayPal customers will be able to use their accounts at more
than 7 million merchant locations that already accept Discover
starting in 2013, the companies said today in a statement. The
arrangement eventually may expand to include international
markets, they said.  The partnership gives PayPal, which seeks to transfer its
online success to the physical world, access to a network that
reaches about the same number of U.S. merchants as  Visa Inc. (V)  and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)  Online purchases accounted for less than 8
percent of U.S. retail spending last year and PayPal now can
target consumers where they do most of their shopping, said  Beth Robertson , a payments analyst at Javelin Strategy & Research.  “That’s the significant piece of the pie that now they’re
going to have access to,” said Robertson, who was briefed on
the agreement in advance. “For PayPal, it’s a move out of their
traditional online arena.”  EBay gained 2.2 percent to $46.88 at 8:54 a.m. in early
trading in New York and Discover advanced less than 1 percent to
$37.19. EBay climbed 51 percent this year through yesterday’s
close, the fourth-best performance in the 71-company Standard &
Poor’s 500 Information Technology Index. Discover has advanced
54 percent in 2012, the second-biggest gain among 81 firms in
the S&P 500 Financials Index, after  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)   ‘Alternative’ Option  The tie-up also will drive more transactions to Discover’s
network, the fourth-biggest in the U.S. by that measure after
Visa, MasterCard and  American Express Co. (AXP)   The deal “will help shape the emerging payments landscape
by bringing together an established direct-banking and payments
company with a leading commerce enabler to create an alternative
payments option for consumers at the point of sale,” Diane Offereins, president of payment services at Riverwoods,
Illinois-based Discover, said in the statement.  EBay, the world’s largest Internet marketplace, generated
40 percent of  second-quarter revenue  from PayPal, which had
113.2 million active accounts as of June 30, the  San Jose ,
California-based company said last month. The total value of
processed transactions climbed 20 percent to $34.5 billion in
the period from a year earlier, the firm said. Worldwide volume
on Discover’s network rose 9.4 percent to $78.4 billion in its
fiscal quarter ended May 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Cards, Smartphones  PayPal customers will be able to use plastic payment cards
or smartphones linked to their accounts to make purchases in
stores, Joby Orlowsky, Discover’s vice president of strategic
initiatives, said yesterday in an interview.  “This really makes real all the technology and things that
people have been working on and the changes in consumer
behavior,” Don Kingsborough, vice president of retail services
at PayPal, said in an interview. “This is the first time that
you make it real for the consumer and for the retailers.”  PayPal was founded in 1998 by  Peter Thiel ,  Elon Musk  and
 Max Levchin  and sold to EBay four years later for about $1.18
billion. The unit charges merchants a  percentage  of the purchase
price, typically 1.9 percent to 2.9 percent plus a fixed 30
cents. It’s a partner of the traditional payment networks, whose
cards are used to fund customer accounts, and also a rival when
consumers choose to transfer money directly from bank accounts.  Jamba Juice  Discover, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer David Nelms, 51, will charge PayPal for access to the network, said
Kingsborough, 65. He declined to disclose the terms or whether
PayPal previously discussed a potential deal with competitors
including San Francisco-based Visa and MasterCard, based in
Purchase, New York.  PayPal ventured into brick-and-mortar payments earlier this
year in a partnership with  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , part of a push to
wrest market share from Visa, MasterCard and New York-based
American Express. PayPal subsequently added 15 more merchants,
including Jamba Juice Co., J.C. Penney Co. and  Office Depot Inc. (ODP)   PayPal and Discover collaborated previously on Money
Messenger, a tool that lets customers send funds on the Internet
or a smartphone using only a recipient’s e-mail address or
mobile phone number.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  