-- Swing-State Aid Agencies Denying Voter Signups Draw Suits
-- B y   K a t h y   W a r b e l o w   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-08-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/pennsylvania-settles-suit-aimed-at-boosting-voter-signups.html
Pennsylvania , a presidential
battleground, is joining at least 15 other states that have
agreed to make it easier for welfare recipients to register to
vote in agency offices.  The Keystone State agreed yesterday to settle a lawsuit
over the so-called Motor Voter law, a 19-year-old statute that
says public-assistance agencies must offer clients the chance to
sign up to vote.  Ohio ,  Michigan ,  Colorado  and  Virginia  also have
changed their stands after either being sued or told by advocacy
groups how they could improve compliance. The shifts stem from
pressure by activists whose drive may aid Democrats in November.  About 1.5 million people have registered since 2004 because
of the drive, according to New York-based Demos, a nonprofit
group involved in the Pennsylvania case. The state was sued as
the presidential campaigns scrounge for every vote, making
ballot access a key front as Democrats challenge restrictive
steps taken by Republican-led states.  “When you have a national election that is as close as
this one, any little advantage is going to be seized upon by
either side,” said Charles Gerow, a Republican political
consultant in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania’s capital.  More than twice as many Americans who aren’t registered
would vote, if they could, for President  Barack Obama  than for
 Mitt Romney  in November, according to a USA Today-Suffolk
University poll  released  Aug. 15 by the Boston-based school. It
said 43 percent would back Obama, a Democrat, to 14 percent for
Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee.  Close Race  Efforts to compel states to ensure participation, such as
the fight by Democrats to reset Ohio’s early voting schedule,
may make a difference in a close election, analysts say. Voter-
identification laws recently passed in Republican-led states
such as Pennsylvania face legal challenges calling them harmful
mainly to the poor and disabled who want to vote Nov. 6. A
Pennsylvania judge has refused to block that state’s statute.  “Any law governing elections has a partisan impact,” said
 Widener University ’s Michael Dimino, who teaches election law in
Harrisburg. “It does come down to liberal versus conservative
and beyond that it comes down to Republicans versus Democrats.”  There’s no difference between the  American Civil Liberties
Union ’s fight over Pennsylvania’s voter-identification law and
the Motor Voter case, Dimino said. Both involve ballot access
for the disadvantaged, he said.  Pennsylvania Settlement  In the settlement yesterday, Pennsylvania agreed to change
how it asks public assistance recipients if they want to
register, to retrain agency workers and to update computers.
Like  Massachusetts  did under a similar accord, Pennsylvania will
mail voter registration forms to aid recipients.  The state will compile related data for Demos and other
plaintiffs, as part of the three-year agreement. Agencies will
post registration forms on their websites while workers will be
required to ask clients who decline to register to opt out.  Ron Ruman, a spokesman for the Pennsylvania State
Department, which oversees elections, said he had too little
information on the accord to comment yesterday, after the
federal court in Philadelphia got the settlement notice.  Pennsylvania didn’t offer registration help or forms in
most public-aid offices, according to the lawsuit. Demos says
federal data show a 93 percent drop in voter signups in the
offices to about 4,200 in 2009-2010 from 1995-1996, while food-
stamp applications almost doubled to 1.8 million.  Helping Clients  “By not registering their clients aggressively, it makes
the scale of our work and the need for registration that much
greater,” said Craig Robbins, executive director of plaintiff
ACTION United, which represents low- and moderate-income people.  Called the National Voter Registration Act, the 1993 law
says states must offer signup forms and help at offices
providing  food stamps , family aid and other assistance. Demos
says registrations through agency offices shot up nationwide by
November 1996, yet fell 79 percent over the next decade, citing
U.S. Elections Assistance Commission data.  Activists also scored a win in the Massachusetts case last
month. The interim settlement drew fire from Republican U.S.
Senator  Scott Brown  as an attempt by the state to help his
challenger, Democrat  Elizabeth Warren , using taxpayer dollars.  Under that accord, Massachusetts spent $276,000 to mail
about 478,000 registration forms to aid recipients. The Motor
Voter lawsuit cited a 95 percent drop in signups at aid-agency
offices over a decade, to about 2,000 from 27,000 in 1999-2000.  Political Boost  Brown, the only Republican holding a statewide elected
office in the Bay State, faulted the accord as too costly and
aimed at helping Warren’s campaign. The race, in which neither
candidate has a commanding lead in voter surveys, may help
determine who runs the upper chamber of Congress. Democrats now
control a six-vote Senate majority.  “It’s outrageous to use taxpayer dollars to register
welfare recipients as part of a special effort to boost one
political party over another,” Brown said in a statement,
noting that Obama was a founding Demos board member. The group
says it’s nonpartisan and has denied trying to help Warren.  “Issues related to election law and voter registration
have become so politicized,” said Lisa Danetz, senior Demos
counsel in  Boston . “How can it be bad to help people eligible
to vote overcome the various requirements so they can
participate?”  Three Years  A 2006 Motor Voter lawsuit against Ohio was settled about
three years later, under then-Governor  Ted Strickland , a
Democrat who took office in 2007. The Massachusetts case, filed
in May, was settled in less than three months. In Pennsylvania,
the administration of Governor Tom Corbett, a Republican,
produced an accord in seven weeks.  Demos uses U.S. data to find states with low registration
rates from public-assistance agencies, and with its partners
does further research to narrow down targets. Lawsuits aren’t
the group’s only method of persuasion, Danetz said. Technical
help is also offered, and advocates have won cooperation from
some states after sending letters detailing compliance failures.  The voter-registration issue transcends this year’s
election, according to David Rubino, a lawyer with Demos.  “Our main objective is to get folks registered,” he said.
“Our goal has always been active participation.”  Agencies have to do more than just offer registration
forms, according to Sarah Brannon at Project Vote, a Washington-
based nonprofit group that works with Demos. Employees must ask
clients if they want to register and offer help, she said.  Turnout Question  Even with the successes Demos cites, increased registration
by low-income voters may not mean they’ll cast ballots, said
 Robert Stein , who teaches politics at  Rice University  in Houston
and has studied voting behavior.  “There’s not a lot of evidence that higher voter
registration leads to high turnout” among the poor and college
students, Stein said. Candidates are less likely to target those
groups with advertising or get-out-the-vote calls. “They’re not
encouraged to vote.”  The Pennsylvania case is Black Political Empowerment
Project v. Carol Aichele, 12-03808, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathy Warbelow in Austin at 
 kwarbelow@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net . 