-- Qatar Wealth Fund Buys 22% of Chinese Private Equity Firm
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-08-22T11:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/qatar-buys-22-stake-in-cic-owned-chinese-private-equity-fund.html
Qatar Holding LLC, the investment
arm of the nation’s sovereign-wealth fund, bought a 22 percent
stake in Chinese private equity firm Citic Capital Holdings Ltd.
as the country accelerates spending on overseas acquisitions.  Qatar Holding bought the shares in Citic, part owned by
 China  Investment Corp. for an undisclosed amount, according to
an e-mailed statement today from the fund. The private equity
firm, founded in 2002 and based in Hong Kong, oversees more than
$4.4 billion, including in funds focused on property.  Qatar is using wealth from the world’s third-largest gas
reserves to snap up assets across the globe. The Middle Eastern
nation, which already owns a stake in Agricultural Bank of China
Ltd., the country’s third-largest bank, took an 11 percent stake
in Swiss miner Xstrata Plc. It also bought U.K. luxury-good
store Harrods Ltd for 1.5 billion pounds ($2.3 billion) in 2010.  Citic Capital has raised money from investors including
 Singapore ’s state-backed Temasek Holdings Pte. In November, the
company said it raised $225 million in the first closing of its
fourth real estate fund. The value of private-equity deals in
China rose 19 percent to $28.5 billion last year and has doubled
since 2009, according to Asian Venture Capital Journal.  China Sovereign Fund  After the Qatar investment,  Citic Pacific Ltd. (267)  and Citic
International Financial Holdings will together hold a 43 percent
stake in Citic Capital. CIC, China’s sovereign wealth fund, will
own 31.1 percent, according to the statement.  Qatar pushed Glencore International Plc, which is offering
to buy Xstrata for $25 billion, to raise its bid by 16 percent.
The demand, made on June 26, took the commodities-trading firm
by surprise and triggered fresh talks, according to people with
knowledge of the discussions who asked not to be identified.  Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said in a
telephone interview that he’s ready to walk away from the deal
rather than overpay.  Qatar Holding agreed to pay 900 million pounds ($1.42
billion) for a 20 percent stake in BAA Ltd., which owns  London ’s
Heathrow airport, according to an Aug. 17 statement.  Qatar Investment Authority, the main sovereign wealth fund,
has $30 billion to invest this year, board member Hussain Al Abdulla said in April. It is opportunistic and doesn’t have any
geographic, asset or currency allocation targets, he said.  China License  The Authority is also applying for a license to invest $5
billion in China under the Qualified Foreign Institutional
Investor program, the China Securities Journal said June 25,
citing Energy and Industry Minister Mohammed Bin Saleh al-Sada.  Qatar will mostly allocate the funds to the domestic A-
share equity market and initial public offerings, with some
investment in bonds, al-Sada said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  or
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  