-- Qihoo Jumps Most Since April on Third-Quarter Sales Outlook
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-08-22T16:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/qihoo-jumps-most-since-april-on-third-quarter-sales-outlook.html
Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , owner of
China’s most-popular Web browser, jumped the most in four months
after third-quarter sales forecasts beat analysts’ estimates.  The company’s American depositary receipts surged 11
percent to a three-month high of $23.47 as of 11:59 a.m. in  New
York , gaining for a third day. They jumped as much as 18 percent
earlier, the biggest intraday increase since April 19.  Beijing-based Qihoo said yesterday third-quarter revenue
will rise as much as 73 percent from a year earlier to $82
million, after jumping 107 percent to $72.8 million in the
previous three months. The company’s estimate  beat  the average
$80.3 million projected by seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Qihoo, which develops computer security software and
desktop products, started a new search engine last week,
entering a market that is 80 percent dominated by Baidu Inc. The
company aims to be a “major player” in  China ’s online search
market in the long term, Chief Executive Officer Zhou Hongyi
said on a conference call yesterday. The search engine will
target customers of its Web browsers and its hao.360.cn online
directory, Zhou said.  ‘Strong Debut’  “We are impressed by the strong debut of Qihoo’s search
and believe it has significant opportunity in China’s large
search market,” Henry Guo, an analyst at ThinkEquity LLC, wrote
in a note today. “Qihoo is well-positioned and we see
significant monetization potential going forward. However, we
don’t expect any meaningful search revenue contribution until
second-half of 2013.” He maintained a buy rating on the stock.  A survey on Sina Corp.’s Weibo social media platform showed
14.2 percent of the 1,332 voters would choose Qihoo’s search
engine, the second among the five most popular Chinese  search
engines , Stifel Nicolaus & Co. said in an Aug. 20 report. Baidu
got 76.5 percent of the votes.  Qihoo’s second-quarter profit fell 37 percent to $7
million, according to its statement yesterday, trailing
analysts’ forecasts of $9.1 million.  Cynthia Meng, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Jefferies Group
Inc., raised the price target for Qihoo ADRs to $35 from $23
today, while Echo He at Maxim Group lifted her price estimate to
$25 from $21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  