-- South Africa Yields Hit Two-Week Low, Rand Falls as CPI Slows
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-08-22T14:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/rand-falls-as-commodities-decline-on-slower-china-europe-demand.html
South African bond yields fell to
the lowest in more than two weeks and the rand declined after
inflation slowed more than forecast, reviving speculation the
central bank will cut  interest rates  a second time this year.  Yields on the nation’s 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 dropped
six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 5.52 percent by
4:40 p.m. in Johannesburg, the lowest on a closing basis since
Aug. 6. The rand retreated as much as 0.9 percent, and traded
0.7 percent weaker at 8.3237 per dollar.  The consumer inflation rate fell to a 14-month low of 4.9
percent in July from 5.5 percent in June, Pretoria-based
Statistics  South Africa  said. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 18 economists was 5.2 percent. Traders are adding to
bets central bank governor Gill Marcus will cut rates a second
time to help spur the economy, interest-rate derivatives show.  “The latest inflation reading will obviously raise the
debate about a possible further rate cut by the  Reserve Bank 
before year-end,”  Kevin Lings , an economist at Stanlib Asset
Management in Johannesburg, wrote in e-mailed comments.
Inflation “should not pose a significant concern for the
monetary authorities”, he added.  The Reserve Bank cut its benchmark repurchase rate by half
a percentage point to 5 percent last month, the first adjustment
in 20 months, to help support growth in Africa’s biggest
economy. Marcus said on July 29 further reductions are not
automatic and should not be taken for granted, tempering
expectations of another cut.  Rate Cut  Forward-rate agreements starting in nine months, used to
speculate on interest rates, dropped 11 basis points today to
4.81 percent, the lowest this month. The rate is 27 basis points
lower than the Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate, indicating
traders are pricing in more than a 50 percent chance of a rate
cut. As recently as Aug. 17, they implied less than a 30 percent
probability of a cut.  One-year  interest-rate swaps  dropped seven basis points to
4.89 percent, the lowest since July 30.  Earlier, the rand dropped after  Japan ’s trade deficit added
to concern slowing growth in  Europe  and  China  will curb demand
for commodities and a U.S.  Federal Reserve  official suggested
quantitative easing is not a “panacea.”  Japan Trade  Japan’s  trade deficit  widened in July as shipments to the
European Union fell 25 percent from a year earlier, the biggest
decline since October 2009, while those to China slipped 12
percent, data today showed. Fed Bank of Atlanta President Dennis Lockhart said U.S. policy makers face a risk of easing too much
while trying to spur a “disappointing” three-year-old economic
recovery.  “Global growth risks are again front and centre,” Quinten Bertenshaw, a Johannesburg-based analyst at ETM Analytics, said
yesterday in a note to clients. “Comments by the Federal
Reserve’s  Dennis Lockhart  last night that more QE would not be a
panacea to economic woes are also weighing on markets.”  Three-month delivery copper lost 0.8 percent to $7,550.25 a
metric ton on the London Metal Exchange. The contract rose as
much as 2.4 percent yesterday, the most since July 3. Currencies
of other commodity-producing nations including Australia and
 Canada  also declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  