-- RBA Denies Stevens Misled Panel Over Corruption Allegations
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-08-22T04:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/rba-denies-stevens-misled-parliament-over-corruption-allegations.html
The  Reserve Bank of Australia  denied
Governor  Glenn Stevens  misled parliament over what officials
knew of alleged corruption at a note printing unit amid media
reports his former deputy was informed of potential bribery.  Then-Deputy Governor Ric Battellino was given a memo in
2007 raising concerns that employees of  Note Printing Australia
Ltd. , a wholly owned subsidiary of the bank, were bribing
foreign officials to win currency printing contracts, the
Australian Broadcasting Corp. reported. Stevens testified to a
committee of lawmakers last year that central bank officials
were unaware of the alleged corruption until media reports in
2009, the ABC said.  “The bank rejects the implication that the governor or
other officers of the bank have misled” the parliamentary
panel, the RBA said an e-mailed  statement  today. Note Printing
 Australia  had “responded appropriately” in addressing concerns
of corruption, the central bank said.  Former managers and employees at Note Printing Australia
and  Securency International Pty , which is half-owned by the RBA,
have been charged with bribing officials in  Malaysia , Indonesia
and  Vietnam  from 1999 to 2004 to win bank-note printing
contracts. The RBA has previously denied allegations in the
media of a cover-up, and the ABC report triggered a call from
Greens Party lawmaker  Adam Bandt  for a public inquiry into the
matter.  Stevens, head of the central bank since 2006, is scheduled
to appear for his semi-annual testimony before a parliamentary
panel in Canberra on Aug. 24.  ‘Governance Standards’  “We need to have complete confidence that the highest
governance standards exist in the RBA,” Bandt, whose vote
Australia’s minority government relies on to pass legislation,
said in a statement today. “This scandal touches the key
financial institution in this country, as well as other arms of
government. We need a full-scale inquiry to clear the air and
remove the cloud hanging over the RBA.”  Note Printing Australia is governed by a board of directors
appointed by the  Reserve Bank . Securency’s board has three
directors appointed by the RBA. The central bank said in its
annual report last year that it had replaced its representatives
on the two companies’ boards. The RBA said in November 2010 that
it will sell its stake in Securency.  The Reserve Bank said it would contact Battellino, who
retired from the central bank in February, to determine whether
he wanted to comment.  ‘Serious Deficiencies’  The document referred to by the ABC was compiled by a Note
Printing Australia employee at Battellino’s request, according
to the RBA statement. It was examined in 2007 by Freehills law
firm, which had been asked by the unit’s board to investigate
after an audit showed “serious deficiencies” in its use of
sales agents, according to the statement.  Freehills concluded no Australian laws had been broken and
the board “responded appropriately to the information it
received and reasonably relied on the advice it received,” the
RBA said.  The chairman of Securency asked the Australian Federal
Police to investigate after the Age newspaper reported the
allegations in May 2009, and authorities were given copies of
the 2007 audit and Freehills report, according to the RBA
statement. The document is now part of evidence in current
proceedings before the court, the central bank said.  ‘Ethical Obligation’  The RBA’s “senior management would’ve had, if not a legal
obligation, at least an ethical obligation to have made a
disclosure at an earlier stage,” said Anil Hargovan, an
associate professor specializing in corporate law and governance
at the Australian School of Business in Sydney, part of the
University of New South Wales. “Because we’re dealing with a
public body, the degree of accountability that’s expected is
higher and, therefore, calls for a Royal Commission that have
been made by some politicians appear to be appropriate.”  The former chief financial officer of Securency
International was given a six-month suspended sentence on Aug.
20. David Ellery, 56, pleaded guilty to one charge of false
accounting in the bribery probe in the  Supreme Court  of
Victoria. Justice Elizabeth Hollingworth said that Ellery had
cooperated with police and would be an important prosecution
witness in any trial. It’s the first time anyone’s been
prosecuted under anti-bribery laws enacted in Australia in 2000.  In testimony to a parliamentary panel in February this
year, Stevens corrected an earlier statement and said Battellino
had received a written briefing from a Note Printing Australia
employee. He denied the central bank had tried to cover up the
corruption claims.  “Let me be crystal clear that I unequivocally reject
that,” Stevens told lawmakers. “That is not true. There is no
basis for those claims at all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  