-- RBS Said to Be Probed by U.S. Regulators Over Iran Sanctions
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-08-22T17:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/rbs-said-to-be-probed-by-u-s-regulators-over-iranian-sanctions.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest taxpayer-owned lender, is being probed by the
Federal Reserve and  Justice Department  over whether it violated
sanctions against Iran, two people briefed on the talks said.  The investigation was triggered after the bank disclosed
information to the U.S. authorities following a review of the
business Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  started after he
joined the Edinburgh-based bank in 2008, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the probe isn’t public. The
Financial Times reported the negotiations earlier today.  RBS opened “discussions with U.K. and U.S. authorities to
discuss its historical compliance with applicable laws and
regulations, including U.S. economic sanctions,” the bank said
in an Aug. 3  filing  that didn’t mention the regulators or Iran.
“Although the group cannot currently determine when the review
of its operations will be completed or what the outcome of its
discussions with U.K. and U.S. authorities will be, the
investigation costs, remediation required or liability incurred
could have a material adverse effect.”  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  paid $340 million this month to New
York’s Department of Financial Services to settle claims it
helped Iran launder about $250 billion in violation of federal
laws. Regulators are investigating four European banks,
including Deutsche Bank AG, for alleged violations involving oil
trading and Iran, an attorney with knowledge of the matter said
earlier this month.  Commerzbank  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  said in 2010 that it was cooperating with
U.S. authorities on an investigation of transactions involving
Iran. Germany’s second-biggest bank said at the time that it
couldn’t asses the outcome of the investigation or how much it
might cost.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s largest bank, and  Credit Agricole
SA (ACA) , each said as recently as March that they were cooperating
with U.S. authorities regarding payments involving countries,
individuals or entities subject to U.S. economic sanctions.  BNP is “conducting an internal review” of certain U.S.
dollar payments involving those countries, the Paris-based bank
said in its 2011  registration document  published in March.
“Similar reviews conducted by numerous financial institutions
relating to actual or purported violations of Office of Foreign
Assets Control regulations have resulted in settlements
involving the payment of fines and penalties, some of which have
been significant,” BNP said in the filing.  Credit Agricole  Credit Agricole  is also reviewing similar payments
following requests from authorities including the office of the
 District Attorney  of New York County, it said in its 2011
registration document, also  published  in March.  “It is currently not possible to know the outcome of these
internal reviews and requests, nor the date when they will be
concluded,” the bank said in the report.  Bertrand Cizeau, a spokesman for BNP Paribas, and Anne-Sophie Gentil, a spokeswoman for Credit Agricole, declined to
comment beyond the information in the documents.  Benjamin Lawsky , the DFS superintendent who investigated
London-based  Standard Chartered , isn’t looking into RBS, the
people said.  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a Fed spokeswoman,  David Neustadt  at the DFS and Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the
Justice Department, declined to comment. Sarah Small, an RBS
spokeswoman, declined to comment beyond the bank’s regulatory
disclosure. Commerzbank spokesman Nils Happich declined to
comment.  ABN Amro  RBS and the Justice Department reached an agreement in 2010
to settle charges that ABN Amro Holding NV, the Dutch lender RBS
acquired in 2007, conspired to defraud the U.S. by engaging in
transactions with state sponsors of terrorism. The firm was
subject to a deferred-prosecution agreement, which required a
forfeiture of $500 million.  RBS fell  0.8 percent to 235.6 pence at the close in London
trading. The shares have risen 17 percent this year after
sliding 48 percent in 2011.  The U.K. rescued RBS at the height of the financial crisis,
injecting 45.5 billion pounds ($72 billion) into the lender,
making it the costliest bailout of any financial institution.
RBS trades at a level equivalent to less than half the price at
which the taxpayer bought its 82 percent stake in the bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  