-- Republicans Make Akin Pariah to Blunt Anti-Women Label
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-08-22T15:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/republicans-make-akin-pariah-to-blunt-anti-women-label.html
A failed effort by the Republican
hierarchy to drive U.S. Senate nominee Todd Akin out of the
Missouri race underscores the party’s weakness with women voters
that might cost it the White House and control of Congress.  Akin’s misstep, saying on Aug. 19 that “legitimate rape”
rarely leads to pregnancy, risks turning the election into one
about women’s reproductive rights -- and bad medical guidance.
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  is determined to
focus on President  Barack Obama ’s economic stewardship.  The chorus of voices urging Akin to drop out of the race
includes Romney, Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus and four former Republican Missouri senators. That’s
“pretty unprecedented,” said  Tom Davis , a former Virginia
Republican congressman. This morning, Akin said on NBC’s “Today
Show” that Republican vice presidential candidate  Paul Ryan , a
Wisconsin congressman, called him to make a personal plea that
he quit the race.  “They don’t want this rubbing off on Romney,” Davis said.
If the election turns on abortion rights,  birth control  and
similar issues, “you lose moderates, young people and others
who could have voted with you.”  While the attempt to banish Akin was intended to reassure
women, the draft of the Republican Party platform created a
fresh target for Democrats. The document that will be voted on
at the Aug. 27 Republican National Convention in Tampa,  Florida ,
supports a constitutional amendment banning abortions with no
exception for terminating pregnancies caused by rape.  Senate Threat  The Akin controversy is already posing a challenge for the
Republican presidential ticket. In Congress, Ryan cosponsored
last year with Akin two measures restricting the definition of
rape.  During his first interview in Pennsylvania, held yesterday
with the Pittsburgh TV station KDKA, Ryan was asked to defend
his support for legislative language that distinguished between
rape and forcible rape.  “That forcible rape language meant nothing to you at the
time?” the interviewer prodded Ryan. “Rape is rape and there’s
no splitting hairs over rape,” the congressman replied.  Critical State  Beyond the presidential contest, Akin’s remarks
reverberated in his race against Missouri Senator  Claire McCaskill , considered one of the most vulnerable Democrats up
for re-election this year. Her seat is a critical building block
in Republican plans to win a Senate majority.  Republicans need to pick up three seats to win control of
the Senate if Romney wins, as the vice president casts tie-
breaking votes in the chamber. If Obama wins, they need four.  If McCaskill wins another term in Missouri, Republicans
would have to hold onto seats they now control in states where
the Senate races appear tight, including Massachusetts,  Nevada ,
Indiana and Arizona.  “If we can’t pick up” a seat in a state like Missouri,
“it’s going to be tough,” Davis said.  In Missouri, Akin’s remarks are getting a lot of attention
from voters.  “His ego’s way out of whack,” said Dan Doerer, 66, a
Republican and retired engineer from Town and Country, Missouri.
“The idea that you’d say something like that so lightly bothers
me and it makes me wonder what else he’d do in the clinch. It’s
crazy.”  Akin, 65, can still exit the race if he petitions a court
by Sept. 25, said  Nathan Gonzales , political editor at the
nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report in Washington.  “We may have not seen the last development in this race,”
he said.  Akin Apologizes  Akin, who has apologized for his remarks in interviews, e-
mails and a television ad, is testing the strength of his
backing with a fundraising appeal.  “Will you stand with me and chip-in $3 as a sign of
support of my continued candidacy?” he says in the e-mail.
“This is a crucial time and every dollar is needed.”  Denise Baltz, 56, of Des Peres, has accepted his apology.
She said she had decided that Akin should quit. “But people
make mistakes. He apologized and we should move forward. Todd
Akin may be our best bet,” she said.  The last time Republicans faced a similar conundrum was 20
years ago when David Duke, a former Louisiana state
representative, defied party leaders concerned about his racist
views and continued his 1992 Republican primary bid against
President  George H.W. Bush .  ‘Moral Judgment’  Duke is a former Grand Wizard of the Knights of the Ku Klux
Klan and ex-Nazi supporter who endorsed voluntary racial
segregation and white separatism.  When Wisconsin tried to keep Duke off the presidential
ballot,  Scott Walker , then a state party official and now the
state’s Republican governor, defended the action.  “We’re making a moral judgment based upon his
background,” said Walker in a television face-off with Duke.
“As recently as 1989, David Duke was known to have sold Nazi
material right out of his office in Louisiana.”  Democrats have accused their partisan adversaries now of
conducting a “war on women,” citing the House budget blueprint
by Ryan, that cuts funding for  Planned Parenthood .  Democrats also point to Republican attempts to pass a
personhood amendment that critics say could limit certain forms
of birth control and roll back abortion rights; and a recent
failed Senate effort to let employers deny contraception health
coverage to employees based on religious or moral objections.  Anti-Abortion Legislation  Republican-led state legislatures are also pushing through
restrictions on abortions. In all, 92 anti-abortion rights
measures passed in 2011, the highest in history; 2012, with 39
similar measures, ranks second.  “We’re really in the midst of a wave of abortion
restrictions,” said Elizabeth Nash, state issues manager at the
 Guttmacher Institute , a nonprofit group that backs reproductive
and abortion rights.  Obama, in a rare appearance in the White House press
briefing room on Aug. 20, used Akin’s remarks to add volume to
the Democratic narrative.  “What I think these comments do underscore is why we
shouldn’t have a bunch of politicians, a majority of whom are
men, making health-care decisions on behalf of women,” the
president said.  Obama’s Advantage  Obama enjoys a more than 2-1 voter advantage over Romney on
issues of concern to women, according to an Aug. 16-20 NBC
News/Wall Street Journal  poll . Fifty-two percent of registered
voters surveyed said Obama would be better on women’s issues,
compared with 24 percent for Romney. Among the 1,000 voters
surveyed, 52 percent were women and 48 percent men.  Women accounted for 53 percent of the electorate in 2008
and backed Obama over Republican nominee  John McCain  by 56
percent to 43 percent, according to a national exit poll.  The Akin controversy “doesn’t enhance the Republicans’
reputation as understanding women,” said Nancy Dwight, a former
executive director of the  National Republican Congressional
Committee . “Let’s also keep in mind that this is one candidate
and one state and let’s hope that it stays just there.”  The cleanest way to make that happen for the party was to
replace Akin, who currently serves in the U.S. House, with
another Republican. If he had quit yesterday, the process would
have been streamlined, as the state party could have simply
chosen a different nominee.  Romney Statement  Hours before a 5 p.m. deadline for Akin to withdraw, Romney
issued his statement calling for the candidate to heed
Republican leaders, including in Missouri, and drop out.  “Todd Akin’s comments were offensive and wrong, and he
should very seriously consider what course would be in the best
interest of our country,” Romney said. “Today, his fellow
Missourians urged him to step aside, and I think he should
accept their counsel and exit the Senate race.”  Earlier, RNC Chairman Priebus and Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky called on Akin to step down, as did
Senator  Roy Blunt  of Missouri, and several former lawmakers from
the state.  “The issues at stake are too big, and this election is
simply too important,” said McConnell.  Crossroads GPS, a nonprofit group founded with help from
Republican strategist  Karl Rove , had been airing ads against
McCaskill. The group announced it was pulling its money out of
Missouri if Akin remained on the ballot.  The St. Louis CBS affiliate that was airing Crossroads ads
yesterday doesn’t “have anything presently booked” by the
group, said Paul Conaty, national sales manager.  Tea Party Comparison  Akin beat St. Louis businessman John Brunner and former
State Treasurer Sarah Steelman in an Aug. 7 primary.  Akin’s political status is being compared by some
Republicans with Senate candidates backed by the anti-tax Tea
Party movement who faltered in the midterm elections two years
ago.  In 2010, Nevada nominee Sharron Angle said Americans might
have to “fight for their liberty in more Second Amendment kind
of ways” -- referring to the right to bear arms -- and it was
publicized that in  Delaware  Republican nominee Christine O’Donnell had previously told an interviewer that masturbation
was equivalent to adultery.  Yet at the time, party leaders didn’t try to oust the
candidates because the Tea Party movement’s strength and appeal
was still untested. O’Donnell and Angle were defeated, losses
that helped prevent Republicans from winning the Senate.  “We’ve learned our lesson with candidates like O’Donnell
in Delaware and the candidate in Nevada that we’ve got to clean
house,” said Brad Blakeman, a former deputy assistant to
President  George W. Bush . “There’s nothing more that the
Democrats want than for a story like this to have legs.”  Jack Pitney , a political scientist at  Claremont McKenna
College  in Claremont, California, said the “swiftness,”
“unanimity” and “bluntness” of calls for Akin to withdraw
are “a sign of Republican concern about control of the Senate
and memories of 2010.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  