-- Tribune Creditors Win Potential Halt to Bankruptcy Plan
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-08-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/tribune-creditors-win-potential-halt-to-bankruptcy-plan.html
Tribune Co. creditors won the chance
to temporarily halt the television and newspaper company’s exit
from bankruptcy should they agree to post a $1.5 billion bond, a
judge ruled.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey agreed with noteholders
who claimed they would be “irreparably harmed” if Tribune
exits bankruptcy before creditors have a chance to try to
overturn the company’s reorganization plan by appealing it to a
higher court.  “It will certainly be difficult to ‘unscramble the egg,’”
Carey said in an opinion issued yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Aurelius Capital Management LP and other holders of
Tribune’s oldest debts had asked Carey to suspend his order
approving the plan and a related legal settlement until a higher
court reviews the case. Aurelius claims Carey erred when he
approved a settlement that ended some lawsuits against lenders
that financed the more than $8 billion leveraged buyout of
Tribune in 2007.  Carey ruled that before creditors holding the older debt
can move forward with their appeal, they must post a bond for
$1.5 billion to ensure that newer lenders who support the
reorganization plan aren’t harmed by any delay. The creditors
must post the bond by Aug. 29, Carey ruled.  Request Denied  Aurelius didn’t immediately respond yesterday to an e-mail
sent to the company’s general e-mail address or to a phone call
requesting comment on the ruling.  Tribune spokesman  Gary Weitman  said in an e-mail that he
couldn’t immediately comment on the ruling.  Carey denied a request by creditors to try speed up the
appeal process by sending the case directly to the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in Philadelphia. Instead, the appeal must first go to a
U.S. district court judge in Wilmington.  Tribune, based in  Chicago , owes creditors about
$13 billion. The company is valued at more than $7 billion,
Tribune said in court papers. Tribune owns the Los Angeles
Times, the  Chicago Tribune  and television and radio stations
around the country.  If the creditors fail to post the bond, or should the
appeals fail, Tribune would be free to move on to the next phase
in the bankruptcy: winning approval from federal regulators to
transfer its radio and television licenses to the proposed new
owners.  Tribune officials have said the company will be able to
exit bankruptcy this year if federal regulators approve the
reorganization plan and the license transfers.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  