-- Romney Backs Latin American Free-Trade Zone, Adviser Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-08-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/romney-backs-latin-american-free-trade-zone-adviser-says.html
 As president,  Mitt Romney  would
seek to form a hemispheric trade zone with Latin American
countries, his top adviser on trade policy said, reprising a
similar plan that stalled seven years ago.  “The first thing we’d like to do is stitch up the
agreements we have” with Central and South American nations,
former Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez, who is now advising
the Romney campaign, said yesterday during an interview in
 Washington . It’s “an effort to make the hemisphere more
globally competitive.”  Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee,
and President  Barack Obama  have talked about boosting exports
and increasing enforcement of international trade rules during a
political season in which  job creation  is a top priority. The
Obama administration and officials from eight other nations are
negotiating the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade pact that
will probably include  Mexico  and Canada by the end of the year.  Romney’s trade policy “will probably be focused primarily,
but not exclusively, on  Latin America ” and the Western
Hemisphere, Gutierrez said. “We also need to be very aggressive
in Asia,” including completing the Pacific trade accord and
establishing new free-trade agreements in the region.  Efforts to create a Free Trade Area of the Americas, which
would have included 34 nations within the Western Hemisphere,
stalled in 2005 after opposition from  Argentina , Brazil,
Paraguay, Uruguay and Venezuela, according to the  Congressional
Research Service .  Existing Pacts  Romney’s plan for a free-trade region in the hemisphere
would be different because it would build upon trade pacts the
U.S. already has in place, said Gutierrez, who led the Commerce
Department under President  George W. Bush  from 2005 to 2009.  Ten of the 19 existing U.S. free-trade deals are with
countries in the Western Hemisphere, according to the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office. Congress last year approved agreements
with Colombia, Panama and South Korea, which were negotiated by
Bush’s administration and revised by Obama.  “There is a trend toward regionalization” globally,
including China’s efforts to forge trade pacts in Asia and
possibly use the  renminbi  as the default currency, said
Gutierrez, who’s now vice chairman of the institutional clients
group at  Citigroup Inc. (C)   “We need to get it right first where we have geographic
proximity,” he said.  Inherited Deals  Gutierrez said that the Obama administration hasn’t been
active enough in completing trade deals, and that trade accords
signed by the president were inherited from the  Bush
administration .  A spokesman for Obama’s re-election campaign disputed that
characterization of the president’s record.  “President Obama has signed into law new trade agreements
with Colombia and Panama, took steps to negotiate a Trans-
Pacific Partnership that includes Latin American countries like
Peru, Chile and Mexico, and worked to eliminate trade barriers
with Latin America,” Adam Fetcher said in an e-mailed
statement. “Latin American leaders have praised the President’s
leadership on trade issues while exports of goods to Latin
America have gone up over 50 percent since 2009.”  A regional accord would make shipping within the hemisphere
easier and would increase productivity, according to Gutierrez.
It wouldn’t call for the use of a common currency, he said.  Trade Barriers  “It will take a lot of work,” he said. Countries such as
Honduras and Chile, which have free-trade pacts in place with
the U.S., would also need to agree to reduce trade barriers
among themselves, he said.  “Conceptually, it’s a good idea,”  Eric Farnsworth , vice
president of the Council of the Americas in Washington, said of
the Romney proposal. “It would certainly be more meaningful
with Brazil,” the largest economy in  South America , he said in
a phone interview.  Potential hurdles to completing an umbrella trade pact for
the hemisphere include finding agreement on disputes over
agricultural policy and rules of origin for products, according
to Farnsworth.  “There is a fairly technical process here,” he said.
Political opposition to such a regional agreement among
countries with bilateral trade deals with with U.S. would
probably be limited because those pacts are already in place, he
said.  Common Ground  Gutierrez said it’s not clear whether enough common ground
exists between the U.S. and Brazil to establish a free-trade
agreement.  Argentina, Ecuador, Bolivia and Venezuela are among
countries that wouldn’t be included in a regional trade zone
consisting of countries that have existing accords with the U.S.
Relations between the U.S. and Ecuador have been strained by the
South American nation’s ties with Iran and its granting of
asylum to WikiLeaks’ founder Julian Assange.  The U.S. yesterday filed a complaint against Argentina at
the  World Trade Organization , alleging that the country
discriminates between imported and domestic products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  