-- Romney’s Medicare Chart Comes Up Blank
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-08-22T22:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/romney-s-medicare-chart-comes-up-blank.html
I pine for  Ross Perot ’s campaign.
Not the candidate himself, though he had his charms. But the
charts and graphs.  He was, to my knowledge, the only serious (though the word
can be debated) candidate to use charts and graphs in a U.S.
presidential campaign. His success might have seeded the use of
bar graphs and “Y” axes in subsequent races. Yet again and
again, I’ve been disappointed.  Until Aug. 16 when Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  opened
a rare news conference by breaking out a whiteboard and uttering
five of my favorite words: “I’ve prepared a small chart.”  The subject was the differences between Romney’s Medicare
plan and President  Barack Obama ’s. Instead of a graph, Romney’s
chart featured a 2x2 matrix -- basically, a box with four
squares that’s heavily used in MBA courses and, interestingly,
in political messaging seminars -- that he said would “bring as
much clarity as possible.” I followed his talk carefully. But,
ashamed as I am to admit it, I remain confused.  The first column of boxes was devoted to Obama’s plan. One
box tallied its effects on seniors over the next decade. It
said: “$716b cut,” “4mm lose” and “15% X.” The next tallied up
its effect on the next generation. This time, there was only one
word: “Bankrupt.”  On the right was the column of Romney’s boxes. The
“seniors” box had just two words: “No change.” The “next gen”
box beneath it had just one word: “solvent.”  Chart Explained  Let’s unpack that. The “$716b cut” refers to the Medicare
cuts in the Affordable Care Act. The bulk of those cuts come in
two areas. First, private insurance plans in the Medicare
Advantage program have been getting paid about 20 percent more
than traditional Medicare. Those overpayments are ratcheted
back. Second, in negotiations with the White House, hospitals
agreed to take a cut in reimbursements with the understanding
that they’ll make more money from the 30 million previously
uninsured people who will have insurance as a result of the law.
The cuts to insurers and hospitals were sufficiently obvious
that  Paul Ryan  included them in his budget.  The “4mm” refers to an estimate that 4 million seniors
might lose coverage under the Medicare Advantage program due to
the cuts (though they would remain eligible for traditional
Medicare). The “15% X” refers to an estimate that 15 percent of
hospitals and nursing homes might stop accepting new Medicare
patients if their reimbursements don’t rise and Medicare does
not become more efficient.  “No change” is clear enough. But in case you were confused,
Romney emphasized that there will be “no changes, no
adjustments, no savings” to Medicare for the next decade. So
Romney plans to keep paying Medicare Advantage plans about 20
percent more than traditional Medicare, and he intends to give
hospitals payments that they have already agreed to give up.  Romney’s description of what happens to the next generation
of  retirees  deserves to be quoted in full: “The Medicare
trustees have notified the president that the plan will go
bankrupt, Medicare Part A, in the next 12 years,” he says.
“Under the plan I have proposed, it is solvent.”  That’s ... it. Those are the only details he provides. He
literally tosses his marker away after saying those words.  But the words aren’t true.  The plan Romney has proposed works like this: Seniors will
get a voucher they can apply either to traditional Medicare or
to a menu of private insurance options. Typically, such plans
tie the value of the voucher to the cost of one of the least
expensive plans. Romney doesn’t specify how his voucher will
work. “Mitt continues to work on refining the details of his
plan,” his website states.  Believe This  There is reason to believe that competitive bidding could
save some money in Medicare. There are also reasons, ably  laid
out  by Bloomberg View’s  Peter Orszag , to believe it will
disappoint. But there’s no reason to believe it could, on its
own, make Medicare solvent.  I asked the Romney campaign whether Romney was relying on a
study or independent analysis when he said his plan would make
Medicare solvent. He wasn’t. Romney was simply referring to the
existence of his plan, such as it is.  Romney’s running mate, Paul Ryan, could tell him that’s not
going to be enough to convince the budget scorekeepers that his
plan ensures Medicare’s future. Ryan has sent a number of
similar  plans  to the  Congressional Budget Office . Because
there’s no evidence that vouchers will solve Medicare’s
problems, Ryan has always had to include some sort of blunt
spending cap. His  2011 plan  said that the generosity of the
vouchers couldn’t grow any faster than the rate of inflation,
meaning seniors would pay an increasing share of their health-care costs out of pocket. The  Congressional Budget Office 
estimated the cost shift from government to seniors would be in
excess of $6,000.  That looked bad, so in his  latest budget , Ryan simply says
that Medicare can’t grow any faster than the rate of economic
growth plus 0.5 percent (which is faster than the rate of
inflation), and if his plan fails to hold costs that low,
Congress has to do something about it, though what that
something should be is left vague.  Interestingly, Obama’s most recent Medicare proposals,
which attempt to restructure Medicare to pay for health outcomes
rather than for the volume of medical care, ties the program to
the same GDP plus 0.5 percent spending cap as Ryan’s; it is
similarly vague in what is to be done if that limit is breached.
That’s because, just as with the Ryan and Romney plans, there’s
no real evidence that Obama’s plan will work, so the CBO refuses
to say it will.  Romney, running for president as a fiscally tough candidate
who won’t duck hard issues but will also never, ever, ever cut
Medicare, has not followed Ryan and Obama’s lead and imposed a
spending cap. So we have no real idea what spending path he’s
outlined for the program, much less how he would achieve it if
his vague voucher plan doesn’t realize the savings he claims,
which it won’t.  You could take one of two views on this. You could say that
Ryan’s and Obama’s plans put Medicare on a sustainable fiscal
path, while Romney’s doesn’t, because that’s pretty much what
the CBO will say, and they’re the folks who judge these things.
Or you could say that none of the plans really make Medicare
solvent -- that they’re all just theory and prayer. What you
can’t say is that Romney has released a plan that makes Medicare
solvent.  I guess I know why he didn’t use a graph.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why we still need  affirmative
action  and on why the Bundesbank should  put up or shut up ;
 Caroline Baum  on the free market not working for  health care ;
 Susan Crawford  on the consequences of the  Apple-Samsung  patent
case; Jonathan Mahler on  football, concussions and ESPN ; William
Silber on how  Paul Volcker  restored the Fed’s  credibility on
inflation ; Will Wilkinson on how Paul Ryan can be a  Randist and
a Catholic .  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 