-- Russia Stocks Fall as Japan Deficit Widens, Greece Seeks Time
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-08-22T15:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/russia-stocks-fall-on-japan-deficit-euro-region-leaders-talks.html
Russian stocks  declined after  Japan 
reported a wider-than-estimated trade deficit and as Greece
sought more time on policy changes while investors awaited
Federal Reserve minutes.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  fell 0.5 percent to 1,446.84 by the close
in Moscow, after rallying 1.8 percent yesterday. OAO  Mechel (MTLR) ,
 Russia ’s biggest producer of coal for steelmakers, slid 1.3
percent. United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum
producer, dropped 1.5 percent, while OAO Novatek, Russia’s
second-biggest producer of natural gas, declined 1.8 percent.  Japan reported a trade deficit of 517.4 billion yen ($6.5
billion) in July as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbed exports. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 analysts was
for a shortfall of 270 billion yen. Stocks worldwide fell as
 Greece  asked for more time to carry out policy changes. Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras said his country needs “more air to
breathe” in dealing with its debt crisis. The Fed will publish
today minutes of the two-day meeting that ended on Aug. 1.  “The Japanese deficit figure doesn’t help the sentiment
when the global growth outlook is looking uncertain,” Saad Siddiqui, an emerging-markets strategist at Credit Suisse
Securities, said by phone from  London . “There is uncertainty
about the Fed’s actions, whether there will be more stimulus.”  Oil, the country’s main revenue earner, added 0.5 percent
to $97.20 in  New York . Preferred shares of OAO Surgutneftegas
rallied 2.4 percent to 20.67 rubles.  WTO Entry  The World Trade Organization today formally accepted
Russia, the world’s biggest energy exporter, as a member after
19 years of negotiation. Joining the Geneva-based body that sets
global trade rules should drive bigger investment inflows, trade
and higher competition in Russia, according to  Fitch Ratings .  “The WTO accession does not drive the stock market
immediately, however, over time, when investors pay more
attention to Russia having joined WTO, Russia should be able to
outperform emerging-market peers,” Marcus Svedberg, chief
economist at Stockholm-based East Capital, which manages more
than $4.4 billion in assets, said in a phone interview today.  Entry will boost stock valuations, narrowing the discount
versus emerging-market peers to about 20 percent, the smallest
in two years, according to Svedberg.  Troika Dialog expects consumer stocks to be the first to
benefit from the WTO entry on lower import tariffs and the
easing on import restrictions, according to an Aug. 21 report.
The stocks set to benefit most include M.Video, OAO Aeroflot and
OAO  Mostotrest (MSTT) ,  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Troika Dialog
in Moscow, wrote in an e-mailed report today.  Cheap Valuations  M.Video, an electronics retailer, was little changed at
265.47 rubles. Aeroflot, Russia’s biggest airline, rose 0.2
percent to 43.39 rubles while bridge builder Mostotrest sank 1.4
percent to 175.35 rubles.  Russian stocks pared losses after sales of existing homes
climbed in July from an eight-month low, adding to signs U.S.
housing may pick up in the second half.  The Micex trades at 5.1 times  earnings  after gaining 3.2
percent this year. That compares with a multiple of 12 times for
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, which has risen 5.7 percent.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21  emerging markets  tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  