-- Sales of Previously Owned U.S. Homes Probably Climbed in July
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-08-22T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/sales-of-previously-owned-u-s-homes-probably-climbed-in-july.html
Sales of  existing  homes probably
climbed in July from an eight-month low, adding to signs U.S.
housing may pick up in the second half, economists said before a
report today.  Purchases rose 3.2 percent to a 4.51 million annual rate,
following a decline in the prior month, according to the  median 
forecast of 73 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Buoyed by cheaper properties and record-low mortgage costs,
demand for real estate is bolstering the industry that helped
trigger the recession. Minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s latest
meeting, also due today, will be a reminder that policy makers
are monitoring data such as housing to determine whether the
world’s largest economy needs more stimulus.  “The healing in housing continues,” said  Brian Jones , a
senior U.S. economist at  Societe Generale  in  New York . “We’re
clearly in an upturn for the sector.”  The National Association of Realtors’ report is due at 10
a.m. in Washington. Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from 4.3
million to 4.8 million, following 4.37 million June.  The Fed will release minutes of its July 31-Aug. 1 meeting
at 2 p.m. The central bank has said it will “closely monitor”
economic data and financial developments, according to a
statement after its gathering, at which policy makers determined
they “will provide additional accommodation as needed” to
accelerate the expansion.  “Despite some further signs of improvement, the housing
sector remains depressed,” the Fed statement also said.  Sales Improved  Existing-home sales, tabulated when a contract closes, have
improved since reaching a low of 3.39 million at an annual rate
in July 2010. In the buildup to the subprime lending collapse
and recession, purchases reached a peak of 7.25 million in
September 2005.  Sales of  new homes , counted when contracts are signed, may
have rebounded to a 365,000 annual rate in July from 350,000 the
prior month, the survey median showed ahead of Commerce
Department figures due tomorrow.  Newly constructed houses accounted for 6.7 percent of the
residential market in 2011, down from a high of 15 percent
during the boom of the past decade. Resales made up the rest.  Construction companies are benefitting from the increase in
demand.  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , the largest U.S. homebuilder by
revenue, posted a better-than-estimated profit and a 32 percent
jump in orders in the second quarter.  AV Homes Inc. (AVHI) , which
develops properties in Florida and  Arizona , said it closed on 41
percent more houses in the second quarter compared to a year
earlier, and contracts signed, net of cancellations, more than
doubled.  Gaining Strength  “The housing market continues to gain momentum,” Allen Anderson, chief executive officer of AV Homes, said on an Aug. 7
earnings conference call. “We are no longer battling the
headwinds of the housing recession.”  Investors also are more upbeat. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite  Homebuilding Index (S15HOME)  has advanced 55 percent so far
this year, outpacing a 12 percent gain in the broader  S&P 500. (SPX)   Reports last week confirmed housing is improving. Building
permits, a proxy for future work, jumped to a four-year high in
July even as residential starts cooled from the fastest pace in
more than three years. The National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo index of builder confidence rose in August
to the highest level since 2007.  A drop in borrowing costs is making homes are more
affordable. The average rate on a  30-year fixed  mortgage dropped
to 3.49 percent in the week ended July 26, the lowest in records
dating to 1971, according to McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac .  Foreclosures are abating, though they still pose a threat
as borrowers struggle to pay bills. The mortgage delinquency
rate, or the share of home loans at least 30 days late, rose in
the second quarter from the previous three months, the first
gain in a year, according to data from the  Mortgage Bankers
Association .  To contact the report on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  