-- Schaeuble Urges Timely Basel Accord as German Banks Doubt Plan
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-08-22T13:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/schaeuble-urges-timely-basel-accord-as-german-banks-doubt-plan.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  urged the European Union to press ahead with its plan
to implement Basel III bank capital rules by Jan. 1, shrugging
off calls by lenders to delay an “unrealistic” target.  EU states “cannot afford” to delay implementing a
cornerstone project that will bolster bank reserves to better
offset losses and protect taxpayers from picking up the debt of
failed lenders, Schaeuble said in an e-mailed statement after
the Cabinet in Berlin today approved a bill to anchor the new
rules in German law.  “Basel III talks are being dragged out in Brussels,”
Schaeuble said. Cabinet signed off on the bill to send a
“signal” to institutions including the EU parliament and the
European Commission “to share the urgency.” German lenders
criticized the appeal, while a senior government official said
the proposed creation of an EU-wide supervisor is adding urgency
to the Basel III schedule.  The Basel III accord remains “unsealed in Brussels, a
moving target” that will take considerably longer to forge than
 Germany  hopes, Stephan Rabe, the Berlin-based spokesman of
the VOeB group that represents 62 state and development banks,
said in an interview. VOeB seeks a one-year extension of Basel’s
implementation, as do Germany’s private banks, the DSGV savings
banks and the BVR cooperative banks.  Proposed in June at the last EU summit, a plan to create an
EU-wide supervisor presupposes that the new capital rules are
law, a German government official told reporters today in
Berlin.  The commission is preparing to present details of the step
as part of proposals for a banking union that will also create
an EU-wide deposit protection fund.  Adoption of the measures of the Basel Committee for Banking
Supervision would more than triple the core capital that lenders
must have to 7 percent of their risk-weighted assets. The Group
of 20 nations said banks should boost their reserves to prevent
any repeat of the wave of taxpayer bailouts that followed the
2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  