-- Serbia Asks Five Local Banks to Disclose Shareholders Lists
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-08-22T14:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/serbia-asks-five-local-banks-to-disclose-shareholders-lists.html
Serbia ’s central bank asked five
local banks to disclose detailed lists of their shareholders as
it increases control of the banking industry.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije gave  Privredna
Banka AD (PRBN) ,  Cacanska Banka AD (CCNB) ,  Komercijalna Banka AD (KMBN) ,  JUBMES Banka
AD (JMBN)  and  AIK Banka AD (AIKB)  an Aug. 31 deadline to list the identity of
people behind custody accounts, as well as their shareholdings,
the central bank said in an e-mail statement today. Only AIK
Banka has no state-held stake.  Custody ownership accounts for an 8.23 percent interest in
Privredna Banka, a 5.73 percent stake in Cacanska Banka, 5.24
percent in Komercijalna, 11.26 percent in JUBMES and 13.4
percent in AIK Banka, according to the  Central Securities
Depository and Clearing House .  The central bank will also step up control of banks with a
certain level of credit risk and where their ownership creates
difficulty controlling management, the National Bank of Serbia
said. The central bank stepped up its oversight of lenders on
July 19 after identifying growing risks in the second quarter of
2012 following the collapse of Agrobanka AD.  Razvojna Banka Vojvodine (MTBN) , the Novi Sad-based bank which
“has relied on significant state aid in the past” has also
been subject to credit-worthiness control, the bank said.
Razvojna Banka Vojvodine reported a 6.8 billion dinars ($72.19
million) loss in the second quarter of 2012, after a 92.7
million dinar profit in the first three months of the year,
according to central bank data.  Goran Kostic, a board member at Razvojna, told reporters in
Belgrade today the bank’s loan portfolio contained 62 percent of
non-performing loans, defined as loan repayments that are late
by 90 days or more.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  