-- Sharp May Offer Workers Buyouts as It Cuts Jobs
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-08-22T09:23:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/sharp-may-offer-workers-buyouts-as-it-cuts-jobs.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , the maker of Aquos
televisions, may sell stock holdings and offer workers buyouts
after slumping sales prompted the company to widen its full-year
loss forecast by eight times.  Sharp may sell its cross-shareholdings and account
receivables if Taiwan’s  Foxconn Technology Group (2354)  invests less
money than it said in March, Miyuki Nakayama, a spokeswoman for
Sharp, said in an e-mail today.  Pioneer Corp. (6773)  and  Sekisui House
Ltd. (1928)  are among the companies Sharp has stakes in, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Sharp is cutting 5,000 jobs and may sell off factories
after increasing its annual loss forecast to 250 billion yen
($3.2 billion) amid lower TV demand and a strong yen, which is
eroding overseas earnings at Japanese consumer-electronics
makers, including Sony Corp. and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  The  workforce
reduction , Sharp’s first since 1950, is part of a plan to reduce
fixed costs by 100 billion yen, it said Aug. 2.  “It’s still unclear whether the company can generate
profit even after carrying out restructuring,” said Hidetoshi Ohashi, who runs  Japan  Credit Advisory Co. in Tokyo. “There may
be further  credit-rating  cuts for Sharp in the future.”  Sharp will offer buyouts to about 3,000 of the  workers  as
early as next month, the Nikkei newspaper said earlier today,
without saying where it got the information. The Osaka-based
company will announce details of the buyouts once a decision is
made, Nakayama said.  Foxconn Investment  Sharp rose 0.6 percent to close at 180 yen in Tokyo trading
today, trimming its loss to 73 percent this year. The shares,
the  worst-performing  this year in Japan’s benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY) 
Stock Average, fell to a 38-year low on Aug. 15 after Deutsche
Bank AG cut its  rating  on the stock, citing concerns Sharp’s
cash flow won’t cover funding needs.  The job cuts come after Sharp unveiled a plan to spin off
its TV panel unit and turned to Foxconn and founder Terry Gou in
March for 133 billion yen in funding after forecasting its
second straight annual loss.  Part of the agreement has been completed as Gou invested 66
billion yen into a display venture, while the remaining 67
billion-yen investment is pending approval.  Foxconn said earlier this month it plans to renegotiate the
price of its proposed investment from the 550 yen a share it
agreed to. Negotiations between the two companies are
continuing, Nakayama said.  China, Mexico Plants  Sharp will begin talks with its labor union shortly as it
prepares to offer buyouts, the Nikkei newspaper reported today.
It will reduce the number of workers at its headquarters to
1,000 from 1,500, the report said.  In addition to the 5,000 job cuts announced Aug. 2, Sharp
may shed more than 3,000 positions by selling plants in  China 
and  Mexico  to Foxconn’s flagship Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.,
the Yomiuri newspaper said yesterday, without citing anyone.  Sharp has offered to sell its TV plants in the two
countries to Foxconn, the Taiwanese company said Aug. 17. Sharp
hasn’t decided on selling the factories, Nakayama said
yesterday.  Sharp has hired consulting firms as it considers selling
divisions including the copier and air-conditioning units, the
Nikkei reported Aug. 16. The Nikkei said Sharp may spin off its
display plant in central Japan, and the Yomiuri newspaper
reported the same day that Sharp is in talks with overseas
makers about selling its solar-battery plant in western Japan.  Nakayama has denied those reports.  Credit-Rating Cuts  “There have been reports that Sharp will sell businesses,
which gave an impression that the company may be selling
everything it can to raise funds in the short run,” said  Nobuo Kurahashi , an analyst at  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  in Tokyo.
“Investors are concerned the company may be taken apart rather
than being revived.”  Standard & Poor’s  cut its long-term  credit rating  on Sharp
by one level on Aug. 3 to BBB, the second-lowest investment
grade, citing “huge first quarter operating losses and net
losses.” S&P said it may cut the rating further.  Fitch Ratings  said the same day Sharp may be reduced to
junk grade within six to 12 months. Fitch now rates Sharp’s
long-term credit BBB-, the lowest investment grade.  Japan’s Rating and Investment Information cut the company’s
short-term rating to a-2 from a-1 earlier this week and said it
may reduce it further. R&I also lowered Sharp’s long-term
rating.  The downgrades add to pressure on Sharp as it faces
redemptions of short-term debt due within a year. The company
had 362 billion yen in commercial paper and 337 billion yen in
short-term borrowing as of June 30, according to its quarterly
financial statement.  Sharp also had 190 billion yen in corporate bonds and 124
billion yen in long-term borrowing, according to the statement.  Sharp’s cash and near cash totaled 218 billion yen as of
June 30, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  