-- Sidley, Hunton & Williams, Latham: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-08-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/sidley-hunton-williams-latham-business-of-law.html
Sidley Austin LLP was one of several
law firms that successfully challenged a U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency rule aimed at reducing pollution from coal-
fired  power plants .  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington  yesterday struck
down the EPA’s cross-state air pollution rule, saying the agency
illegally imposed federal authority over state air pollution
programs.  The court sided with more than three dozen challengers to
the measure, which caps emissions in more than two dozen states.
The rule had been put on hold by the court in December while it
considered the regulation’s legality.  Peter Keisler, the former assistant attorney general for
the civil division of the  Justice Department  in the Bush
administration, argued the case before the appellate court.
Working with him was Roger Martella, another partner from
Sidley, who was the EPA’s general counsel during the  Bush
administration . Sidley partners C. Frederick Beckner and Timothy
Webster were on the team as well, representing Luminant, a unit
of Energy Future Holdings Corp.  Also representing Luminant were Hunton & Williams LLP
partner F. William Brownell and Balch & Bingham LLP partner P.
Stephen Gidiere.  Latham & Watkins LLP was also involved in the case,
representing EME Homer City Generation LP, a unit of  Edison
International. (EIX)  From Latham are partners Gregory Garre, Claudia
O’Brien and Lori Alvino McGill.  Finally, partners Joshua Frank and William Bumpers of Baker
Botts LLP represented Entergy Corp., Consolidated Edison Company
of New York Inc., Northern States Power Co. -  Minnesota ,
Southwestern Public Service Co. and Western Farmers Electric
Cooperative.  In the 60-page opinion, Circuit Judge  Brett Kavanaugh  wrote
that “our limited but important role is to independently ensure
that the agency stays within the boundaries Congress has set.
EPA did not do so here.”  The court’s decision, which sparked a rally in coal stocks,
could leave the EPA with years of work to replace a regulation
the agency said would have “dramatic” health benefits for 240
million people, Whitney Stanco, senior energy policy analyst at
Guggenheim Securities LLC, said.  The case is EME Homer City Generation LP v. U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, 11-1302, U.S. Court of Appeals  For more on the decision, click here.  Deals  Bracewell, Stinson, Debevoise on Kinder Morgan-Tallgrass Deal  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP) , the second-largest U.S.
pipeline partnership, agreed to sell assets in the  Rocky
Mountains  to private-equity backed Tallgrass Energy Partners LP
for $1.8 billion in cash, a divestiture promised to antitrust
regulators.  Kinder Morgan Energy  will sell 7,200 miles (11,600
kilometers) of pipelines and two natural-gas processing
facilities, the Houston-based company said Aug. 20 in a
statement. The deal, which includes its Trailblazer Pipeline
Co.,  Kinder Morgan  Interstate Gas Transmission pipeline and a 50
percent interest in the Rockies Express pipeline, is valued at
$3.3 billion including assumed debt, according to the statement.  The sale is the last requirement from Kinder Morgan Inc.’s
$22.8 billion takeover of El Paso Corp. in May. The Federal
Trade Commission forced Kinder Morgan, which controls Kinder
Morgan Energy, to sell some of its gas pipelines to reduce its
dominance in the Rocky Mountain region.  Partners W. Cleland Dade, Gregory M. Bopp, Heather L.
Brown, Aaron P. Roffwarg, Jeffrey S. Whittle and Timothy A. Wilkins from Bracewell & Giuliani LLP represented Kinder Morgan.  Tallgrass, based in  Overland Park ,  Kansas , is owned by its
management as well as private-equity firm Kelso & Co. and a
group of investors led by the Energy & Minerals Group.  Partners Patrick Respeliers and Scot Hill from Stinson
Morrison Hecker LLP in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , represented
Tallgrass.  Partners Margaret Andrews Davenport, Paul D. Brusiloff and
David H. Schnabel from Debevoise & Plimpton LLP represented
Kelso.  Baker Botts LLP represented the Energy & Minerals Group.
From that firm were partners  Laura Tyson , Michael Bengtson and
Stephen Marcus.  Moves  Kirkland & Ellis Adds Corporate Partner in New York Office  Taurie M. Zeitzer joined the New York office of  Kirkland &
Ellis  LLP as a partner in the corporate group. Zeitzer had been
a partner in the New York office of Latham & Watkins LLP, where
she was also in the corporate department.  Zeitzer focuses her practice on mergers and acquisitions,
private equity and complex corporate transactions, according to
a Kirkland & Ellis statement.  Kirkland & Ellis has about 1,500 attorneys in offices
worldwide.  DLA Piper Adds Litigator to Office in Minneapolis  William Stute joined DLA Piper LLP as a partner in the
Minneapolis office. He previously was a partner at Faegre Baker
& Daniels LLP.  Stute is a litigator who focuses on complex financial
disputes, including commercial and securities fraud, business
torts, merger and acquisition litigation, and shareholder
derivative and class actions. He also represents companies and
individuals in investigations and proceedings involving the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission and other agencies.  Stute is a member of William Mitchell College of Law’s
board of trustees and a member of Minnesota CLE’s board of
directors.  DLA Piper’s litigation practice has more than 1,500 lawyers
globally.  Ex-Chicago Education Board General Counsel Joins Jackson Lewis  Patrick Rocks, the Chicago Board of Education’s general
counsel since 2005, joined Jackson Lewis LLP as a partner in the
firm’s Chicago office.  Rocks has more than 20 years of experience in public sector
and education law, with an emphasis on both class litigation and
labor and employment issues, the firm said in a statement.  Jackson Lewis represents management in workplace law with
more than 700 attorneys in 49 offices throughout the U.S.  Morrison & Foerster Adds Intellectual Property Lawyer  Intellectual property litigator Johnny Chiu joined  Morrison
& Foerster LLP ’s Washington office as a partner.  Chiu has represented China- and Taiwan-based technology
companies in IP litigation before the International Trade
Commission and in U.S. courts, according to a statement from the
firm.  Goodwin Procter Adds Lawyer to Technology, M&A Practices  Lawrence M. Chu joined the Silicon Valley office of Goodwin
Procter LLP as a member of its Technology Companies,
M&A/Corporate Governance and Private Equity practices.  Chu, who was a partner at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati
PC in  San Francisco , will focus on mergers and acquisitions,
dispositions and corporate finance transactions in the
technology, Internet, digital media, financial technology, e-
commerce and biotechnology industries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in  New York  at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  