-- Singapore Rich Seen Luring Issuers After IDBI Bond: India Credit
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2012-08-23T04:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/singapore-rich-seen-luring-issuers-after-idbi-bond-india-credit.html
IDBI Bank Ltd. (IDBI) ’s record Singapore-
dollar bond sale will prompt more Indian companies to tap
increasing demand from wealthy private investors, the city’s top
underwriter said.  The Indian state-owned lender sold S$250 million ($200
million) of three-year notes to yield 3.65 percent, in the first
offering by an Indian issuer in the currency since April 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average yield on
Singapore dollar corporate debt declined 32 basis points this
year to 2.6 percent, HSBC Holdings Plc indexes show. Three-year
rupee company  borrowing costs  are 9.46 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “IDBI’s bond shows the continued diversification of issuer
types in Singapore’s bond market,” Clifford Lee, head of fixed
income at DBS Group Holdings Ltd., the biggest arranger of the
debt this year, said yesterday. “It does a lot for price
discovery for Indian banks in the market and will definitely
lead to other issuers following suit.”  Indian borrowers are returning to the overseas markets as
yield premiums narrow. They sold the most U.S. dollar debt last
week in more than a year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Singapore  dollar bond sales are set to increase to an
all-time high this year as a 4.3 percent rally in the currency
increases the appeal of the assets to private-wealth clients. 
Private banks bought 65 percent of IDBI’s notes, a person 
familiar with the matter said.  ‘Strong’ Demand  The underwriters took more than $3 billion of orders from
80 accounts for the offering, the person said, asking not to be
identified because the matter is private. About 78 percent of
the buyers were based in Singapore, according to the person.  The sale was managed by DBS, HSBC and Standard Chartered
Plc, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a way to diversify their funding sources and demand
from private banks for these securities is strong,” said Joyce Tan, co-head of Asia fixed-income investments at UOB Asset
Management Ltd., which manages the equivalent of $15.5 billion
of assets. “There is less competition for funds relative to
U.S. dollar market so the borrowing costs for foreign issuers
can be cheaper here.”  Singapore’s dollar strengthened 0.3 percent to S$1.2437
against the dollar today, taking gains since 2009 to about 16
percent.  Yuan, Swiss francs  IDBI issued the first Dim Sum bond for an Indian issuer in
November 2011. The bank priced 650 million  yuan  ($102 million)
of three-year notes at a yield of 4.5 percent in November, the
data show. It also sold 110 million Swiss francs ($115 million)
of 3-1/2-year debt in March.  Melwyn Rego, executive director of IDBI in Mumbai, wasn’t
immediately available to comment on the latest sale.  Elsewhere in the markets, the yield on  India ’s 8.15 percent
note due June 2022 was little changed at 8.22 percent as of
10:14 a.m. in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. Benchmark yields touched 8.26 percent on Aug. 16, the
highest since June 11, on concern the fastest inflation among
the largest emerging-market nations will deter the central bank
from easing monetary policy.  The extra yield on 10-year bonds over similar-maturity
Treasuries was little changed at 653 basis points.  Rupee-denominated sovereign notes returned about 5.94
percent this year, lagging only the 6.35 percent earned by
Indonesian debt among the region’s biggest markets, HSBC indexes
show.  SBI Strike  India’s rupee gained 0.4 percent to 55.2650 against the
dollar today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency has strengthened about 3.7 percent since weakening to a
record low of 57.3275 on June 22, the data show.  State Bank  of India, the nation’s largest lender, resumed
 currency trading  today after a halt yesterday as a strike by
workers of state-owned banks disrupted operations, a person
familiar with the matter said.  Credit-default swaps on State Bank, which investors
consider a proxy for the sovereign, fell 3 basis points to 319
this month as of Aug. 22, heading for a third monthly decline,
according to data provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to debt agreements,
and a drop indicates improving perceptions of creditworthiness.  Steel Authority of India Ltd., National Housing Bank and
Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency Ltd. are planning to
sell rupee-denominated bonds, according to people familiar with
the matter.  Private Wealth  IBDI’s bond is the first by an Indian issuer since ICICI
Bank Ltd. sold S$60 million of 3.8 percent five-year notes in
April 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Indian banks are looking to diversify to non-dollar
currencies,” Harihar Krishnamoorthy, Mumbai-based treasurer at
FirstRand Ltd. said in phone interview on Aug. 21. “Given the
economic uncertainties in the world, it’s always ideal for banks
to get exposure to different currencies.”  Singapore-dollar bond issuance increased 66 percent to
S$23.2 billion this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Private banks took up about 35 percent of Singapore-
dollar notes this year on average, Deutsche Bank AG estimated in
June.  Private wealth in the city-state, which has the top ratings
from both  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service, grew
8.2 percent in 2011, according to research by  Boston Consulting
Group , outpacing the 1.9 percent global pace. Total household
wealth in Singapore is estimated to grow to $1.4 trillion in
2016 from $1 trillion in 2011, the study showed.  “There are a lot of wealthy non-resident Indians living in
Singapore, which definitely added to the deal’s response,”
James Fielder, head of Asia local currency syndicate in  Hong
Kong  at HSBC, said in a telephone interview on Aug. 21. “Given
the popularity of IDBI’s deal, I certainly expect many more bond
origination teams to be pushing the idea to their clients.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  