-- Sirius Investors Lose Bid to Halt Liberty Media Takeover
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-08-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/sirius-investors-lose-bid-to-stop-liberty-media-takeover-effort.html
Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  shareholders
lost a bid to stop Liberty Media officials from seeking to
acquire a controlling stake in the satellite-radio provider
after a judge denied their request to block further purchases of
Sirius shares.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine refused to bar
Liberty Media Chairman John C. Malone from adding to his
48 percent Sirius stake despite shareholders’ concerns that the
billionaire had started what they called in court papers a
“creeping takeover” of the U.S.’s largest satellite
broadcaster.  The shareholders’ request for an injunction to keep Malone
from buying more Sirius shares “is a bit of a stretch,” the
judge said yesterday at a hearing in Wilmington. “I’m not going
to rule by the seat of my pants on this.”  Sirius investors sued Malone and other  Liberty Media (LMCA) 
executives who serve as Sirius directors yesterday, alleging
they are improperly blocking other board members from erecting
anti-takeover defenses for the broadcaster.  Liberty Media, based in Englewood,  Colorado , said earlier
this month that it intends to increase its holding in Sirius to
more than 50 percent to take control the firm and its airwave
licenses.  Kelly Sullivan, a spokeswoman for Sirius, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment yesterday on the judge’s
decision. Courtnee Ulrich, a Liberty spokeswoman, also didn’t
return a call.  Control Push  Liberty Media officials said in an Aug. 17 filing with the
 Federal Communications Commission  that by increasing its stake,
the company is poised to take control of Sirius within 60 days
of receiving regulators’ approval of airwave-license transfers.  Liberty Media is a holding company with a range of
investments, including stakes in the cable TV programmer  Starz
LLC  and  Major League Baseball ’s  Atlanta Braves . Malone said last
month that he intends to spin off Sirius as a publicly traded
company once he gains a controlling stake.  Malone got the Sirius stake after providing a $530 million
loan in 2009 that kept the satellite broadcaster out of
bankruptcy. The investment agreement barred Malone from
attempting to gain control of the radio provider for three
years, investors said in the complaint.  Period Ended  Now that the three-year period has ended, Malone and
Liberty are seeking to gain control of Sirius without paying a
premium, the City of Miami Police Relief and Pension Fund, a
Sirius shareholder, contends in the complaint.  As part of the loan agreement, Sirius’s board was barred
from setting up anti-takeover defenses that would hinder an
acquisition of the broadcaster, according to court filings.  Investors are challenging that provision as illegal under
Delaware law and had asked Strine to bar Malone from acquiring
any more Sirius shares until his fellow Sirius directors could
properly evaluate whether anti-takeover defenses should be put
in place.  Strine said yesterday that he would hear expedited motions
to decide whether the Sirius investors’ case should proceed
within the next month.  The case is City of Miami Police Relief and Pension Fund v.
Sirius XM Radio Inc., Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  