-- Snoras Ex-Owners Used Bank for Gain, U.K. Court Claim Says
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e ,   A a r o n   E g l i t i s   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-08-22T17:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/snoras-ex-owners-used-bank-for-own-gain-u-k-court-filing-says.html
Bankas Snoras AB’s former owners
siphoned away money through transfers to personal accounts,
collateral for loans, and fake real estate deals using a web of
offshore entities, the bank said in a  London  court filing.  Vladimir Antonov  and Raimondas Baranauskas used banks
including HSBC Private Bank SA and Julius Baer & Co AG to
transfer Snoras assets as collateral for loans to companies
owned by or associated with Antonov, the lender said in a June
21 filing made public yesterday. Some of the loans weren’t
repaid and the securities were forfeited, it said.  Bankas Snoras, once Lithuania’s third-biggest lender by
deposits, is suing its former owners for 492 million euros
($613.5 million). They were detained in London in November after
Lithuanian authorities issued a European arrest warrant on
claims they forged documents and fixed accounts to siphon at
least 1.7 billion litas ($610 million) from Snoras, causing its
collapse. Both men deny the claims and are fighting them.  Brendan McNamara , a spokesman for London-based HSBC Group
Plc, and Kevin Gold, a lawyer from Mishcon de Reya in London
representing the men, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Antonov had some of the Vilnius-based bank’s securities
transferred to his personal account, and about 40,000 euros of
that may have been used to make a mortgage payment on a chalet
in  France , the claim said, citing a Lithuanian Central Bank
report. Antonov, who is Russian, says the case may be
politically motivated and believes his life may be in danger if
he returns. They are fighting their extradition in a pending
London case.  ‘Commercially Unjustifiable’  The pair had companies domiciled in the  Dominican Republic ,
 Cayman Islands , Cyprus, Belize and the Bahamas to evade
detection, according to the claim.  Antonov instructed Snoras to pay “excessive and
commercially unjustifiable price” for properties in  Riga ,
 Latvia , from companies owned by or connected to him, losing the
bank at least 17 million euros, according to the filing.  In one deal, Cyprus-based and Antonov-linked Bandiron
Corporation Limited bought the headquarters of Latvijas
Krajbanka AS from Red Projekts SIA for 5.9 million lati ($10.6
million), then sold it three days later to Snoras for 23.2
million lati, the claim said.  Part of the money that was alleged to have been transferred
went to AirBaltic AS, a Latvian airline partly owned by a
company associated with Antonov, the claim said.  Money was also transferred from a Swiss fund owned by
Antonov to a Latvijas Krajbanka AS account for Gemini Investment
Fund Limited, the claim said. Gemini is a company owned by, or
controlled by or connected with Antonov, according to the claim.
Gemini had lent Swedish Automobile NV,  Saab Automobile ’s Dutch
owner, a 25 million-euro loan in June 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  