-- Soco to Boost Vietnam Field Capacity After Record Revenue
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-08-22T15:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/soco-seeks-to-boost-vietnam-field-capacity-after-record-revenue.html
Soco International Plc (SIA) , the U.K.
explorer focused on Africa and  Asia , is seeking to increase
production capacity at its offshore deposits in Vietnam after
revenue rose to a record in the first half.  Soco expects daily oil output from the Te Giac Trang fields
to reach 55,000 barrels a day for the rest of the year following
the connection of the second production platform in July. The
floating, production, storage and offloading vessel, or FPSO,
was tested at a rate of 60,500 barrels a day last week, London-
based Soco said today in a statement.  “Even with that we still haven’t tested the limits of the
capacity of the FPSO, we still have extra capacity,” Chief
Financial Officer Roger Cagle said in a phone interview.
“Typically you are talking anywhere between 10 to 25 percent
excess when you get above the nameplate capacity of any
vessel,” he said.  First-half  revenue  jumped 10-fold to $263.2 million in the
six months ended June 30 from a year earlier. Soco held $178
million in cash at the end of the reporting period amid plans to
drill wells in the Republic of Congo,  Vietnam  and  Angola . The
explorer may be able to increase its reserves estimate later in
the year following the expansion in Vietnam, Cagle said.  Firmer Valuation  “Delivery of the TGT development and an update on TGT
reserve estimates, possibly by year-end, could lead to a firmer
valuation for the field and possible divestment of Soco’s
Vietnam assets,” Michael Alsford, a London-based analyst at
Citigroup Inc., wrote in an e-mailed report. “If a sale is not
forthcoming, we expect management to consider further
distributions to shareholders in 2013.”  Cagle said the company doesn’t plan to sell its cash-
generating project in Vietnam and will possibly consider a
special dividend in December.  In the  Democratic Republic  of Congo, Soco has bought 46.75
percent of Block V from  Ophir Energy Plc (OPHR)  for $8.7 million,
increasing its stake to 85 percent.  In the Republic of Congo, it’s in talks with a potential
partner to work at the Marine XIV Block, Cagle said.  Soco fell 5.3 percent to close at 336 pence in  London , the
biggest decline since April 10. The  shares  have risen 15 percent
 this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  