-- Sony to Cut 1,000 Jobs to Reduce Costs at Mobile Unit
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-08-23T09:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/sony-may-cut-1-000-jobs-at-swedish-mobile-unit-sydsvenskan-says.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s largest exporter
of consumer electronics, is eliminating about 15 percent of its
mobile-phone unit’s workforce to reduce costs at a business that
trails  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co.  The reduction of about 1,000 jobs will mainly be in  Sweden ,
Sony said today in a statement. About 650 positions will be cut
from its mobile division’s headquarters in the town of Lund, and
the rest will primarily be consultants in the Nordic country.
The unit’s headquarters will move to from Lund to Tokyo, where
Sony is based.  Sony is shrinking its global workforce by about 6 percent,
closing plants and reorganizing its  businesses  after posting a
457 billion-yen ($5.8 billion) net loss for the year ended March
31 amid slumping demand for its Bravia TVs, competition from
South Korean rivals and a strong yen, which erodes earnings from
overseas. The Tokyo-based company on Aug. 2  cut its profit
forecast for this year to 20 billion yen from 30 billion yen.  “We are accelerating the integration and convergence with
the wider Sony group to continue enhancing our offerings, and a
more focused and efficient operational structure will help to
reduce Sony Mobile’s costs, enhance time to market efficiency
and bring the business back to a place of strength,” Kunimasa Suzuki, president of Sony Mobile, said in the statement.  Global Competition  Sony will probably eliminate 700 jobs this fiscal year and
about 300 jobs next year at the mobile-phone unit, Keita
Sanekata, a Tokyo-based spokesman, said by phone today, adding
that the cuts are part of a 10,000 worker reduction plan.  Sony’s TV and mobile-phone businesses “continue to be
plagued by structural challenges, such as the commoditization
and maturity of major products, rapid technological changes, and
intense global competition,” Moody’s Investors Service said in
a statement on Aug. 6, when it placed Sony’s credit ratings
under review for a possible downgrade.  Sony’s shares fell 0.3 percent to 929 at the close of  Tokyo 
trading and have plummeted 33 percent this year.  Sony bought  Ericsson AB (ERICB) ’s half of their 10-year-old mobile-
phone joint venture Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB for
1.05 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in February.  Sony, which makes the Xperia handset, had a 4.2 percent
share of the global smartphone market last year, lagging behind
Nokia Oyj, HTC Corp. and Research In Motion Ltd., according to
researcher Gartner Inc. Apple topped the ranking with 18.9
percent market share, followed by Samsung with 18.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  