-- Korea Makes New Lending Rate Benchmark Amid Rigging Probe
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-08-22T08:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/south-korea-adopts-new-lending-rate-benchmark-amid-rigging-probe.html
South Korea chose a new benchmark
rate for bank lending amid an antitrust agency investigation
into borrowing-cost rigging that has drawn ire from customers
and lawmakers.  The  Financial Services Commission  plans to use a so-called
short-term Cost of Funds Index in cooperation with lenders as an
alternative for banks to base their short-term lending rates on,
the regulator said in an e-mailed statement today. The country’s
banking industry group plans to publish the rate every Wednesday
from November, it said.  South Korea is setting the new short-term lending standard
after the Fair Trade Commission in July began probing banks and
brokerages for possibly manipulating certificate-of-deposit
rates. Global regulators are scrutinizing key rates, with
Barclays Plc receiving a record fine for attempting to
manipulate the London interbank offered rate.  “Lenders may benefit from shifting to short-term Cofix
from the current CD rate as the new measure would better reflect
banks’ borrowing costs,” said Hong Hun Pio, a Seoul-based
analyst at KTB Investment & Securities Co. “Still, banks will
have little room to expand their loan margin and spread amid
criticisms following the antitrust agency’s probe.”  The new benchmark will draw from a group of lending
instruments, rather than just the 91-day CD rate currently used.
Short-term Cofix will be calculated by reflecting lenders’
average funding costs over three months based on  repurchase
agreements , the 91-day CD rate and time deposits. Details will
be determined after further discussions, the regulator said.  Earnings Drop  While the short-term Cofix is expected to be 5 basis points
to 10 basis points higher than the CD rate, it won’t raise
borrowing costs as banks can adjust the spread, Koh Seung Beom,
director-general of the FSC, told reporters today.  Combined earnings at 18 South Korean banks including KB
Financial Group Inc. and  Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790)  plunged 59
percent in the quarter ended June 30 from a year earlier as loan
margins narrowed and bad-loan provisions rose, the Financial
Supervisory Service said July 30.  Net interest margin, a key measure of profitability from
lending, declined to 2.13 percent last quarter from 2.32 percent
a year earlier, the FSS figures showed.  Public Criticism  The FTC inspected 10 brokerages on July 17 and nine banks
on July 18 to see if there was collusion in setting CD rates.
The commission said at the time that it will closely review the
inspection results, without identifying the firms. Lawmakers and
civic groups criticized the nation’s banks and called for
thorough investigations.  South Korea ’s 91-day CD rate is set twice a day by the
Korea Financial Investment Association based on an average from
10 brokerages. It’s the benchmark for almost 30 percent of won
lending, and 421 trillion won ($371 billion) of interest-rate
swap contracts were based on the rate as of March.  Given the  balance  of loans and derivatives tied to the
rate, local lenders agreed to issue more CDs in order to publish
a more sound figure, the commission said today. The regulator
will bolster disclosure rules related to CD issuances and
trading to improve transparency in the rate’s calculation, it
said.  The CD rate has been losing its benchmark status as the
balance of such products has shrunk to only 2.5 percent of
banks’ total deposits, the FSC said on July 31.  The Cost of Funds Index was introduced in 2010 as a basis
for longer-term  household lending  such as mortgages, according
to the  Korea Federation of Banks ’ website. The federation
announces the rate once a month based on quotes from a weighted
average of nine banks. The current Cofix has an average maturity
of around 10 months.  About 14 percent of banks’ local-currency lending was tied
to the rate as of March, according to FSC data.  The new rate will be useful for short-term corporate loans
and household credit, while the existing Cofix will remain valid
for long-term debt such as mortgages, the commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  