-- Spain Bailout Request May Not Impact Credit Rating, S&P Says
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-08-22T16:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/spain-bailout-request-may-not-impact-credit-rating-s-p-says.html
Any request by  Spain  for a full
sovereign bailout is unlikely to directly affect the nation’s
credit rating as any aid may help the country continue fiscal
reforms,  Standard & Poor's  said.  A request would “constitute an official acknowledgment
that the government is facing ongoing risks to financing itself
in the capital markets at sustainable rates,” the ratings
company said in a statement in Frankfurt today. “However, we
think that the potentially advantageous terms” could “enhance
the chances of success of Spain’s already ambitious and
politically challenging fiscal and economic reform agenda.”  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is considering requesting more
aid from European rescue funds to help lower the nation’s
borrowing costs. Spain has urged unlimited support from the
 European Central Bank  after ECB President  Mario Draghi  announced
proposals earlier this month to re-enter the  bond market .  Spain is rated BBB+ at S&P, three levels above non-
investment grade. It has a BBB rating at  Fitch Ratings  -- two
levels above junk, while its Baa3 grade at Moody’s Investors
Service is the lowest investment grade rating.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond was at 6.27
percent today, after reaching a euro-era high of 7.75 percent on
Aug. 25.  Reforms Needed  Spain signed off last month on as much as 100 billion euros
($125 billion) of aid from European rescue funds to shore up
banks burdened with bad loans. S&P said today that
implementation of plans to set up a European banking union and
allowing the ECB to buy bonds on the secondary market “would
provide the Spanish authorities with time to put additional
economic and fiscal reforms in place that would be conducive to
restoring investor confidence.”  Still, it added that “uncertainties remain” at both the
European and national level, including tensions between Spain’s
government and regional governments on budget targets.  “Labor reforms instituted so far, while substantial, have
not been sufficient to fully address the structural problems of
the Spanish labor market,” S&P also said.  S&P said the consolidation of Europe’s monetary and
political union would help Spain, while an exit by Greece from
the euro would hurt its  credit rating .  “A euro-zone exit by any member sovereign would implicitly
reintroduce currency risk in cross-border financial
transactions,” S&P said. An exit also risks “permanently
jeopardizing the ability of the Spanish public and private
sectors to access financing at sustainable rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  