-- Spurs Near Signing of Willian for $31.5 Million: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-22T06:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/spurs-near-signing-of-willian-for-31-5-million-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Brazilian Duo  Tottenham Hotspur is close to signing attacking midfielder
Willian from  Shakhtar Donetsk  for 20 million pounds ($31.5
million) and wants to add his fellow Brazilian Leandro Damiao,
the  Daily Mail reported .  Willian, 24, has compared himself to Luka Modric and would
be the ideal replacement should the Croatian playmaker move to
Real  Madrid , the newspaper added. Damiao, a 23-year-old striker,
won a silver medal at the London Olympics and was tournament’s
top scorer with six goals, the Mail added.  Chelsea Wants Cavani  Chelsea will make a 35 million-pound bid to sign Napoli’s
Uruguayan striker Edinson Cavani and will turn to Porto’s Hulk
if the deal stalls, the  Sun reported .  Blues manager Roberto Di Matteo wants to bring in another
striker before the Aug. 31 transfer deadline and Chelsea is said
to have planned talks with both Napoli and Porto at next week’s
 Champions League  draw in  Monaco , the newspaper said.  Sahin Signs  Arsenal’s season-long loan deal for Real Madrid’s Nuri
Sahin has gone through after stalling over a 14 million-pound
buyout clause to make the move permanent, the  Mail reported .  The two teams have reached a compromise should Arsenal want
to take up the option of signing the 23-year-old Turkey
midfielder once his loan ends, the newspaper said.  Italian Job  Manchester United striker Dimitar Berbatov has been offered
a two-year contract by Fiorentina and wants the Red Devils to
let him join the Italian club for cut-price fee of 3 million
pounds, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Nani Nixed  United will drop Nani after a poor performance in the 1-0
loss at Everton two days ago and won’t offer the Portuguese
winger a new contract until next year, the  Sun reported .  Nani, 25, has two years left on his current 90,000-pounds-
a-week agreement and wants a new deal worth more than 130,000
pounds a week, the newspaper added. United won’t consider
selling him unless they get an offer in excess of 25 million
pounds, the Sun added.  Sunderland Spree  Sunderland is prepared to spend about 25 million pounds
over the next nine days by signing Manchester City winger  Adam
Johnson , Wolves striker  Steven Fletcher  and defender Martin
Olsson from Blackburn, the  same newspaper reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  