-- Syms, Mark Shale, Dewey, ATP Oil, Kodak, AMR: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-08-22T12:40:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/syms-mark-shale-dewey-atp-oil-kodak-amr-bankruptcy.html
Dissident unsecured creditors of
 Syms Corp. (SYMSQ)  laid out a theory yesterday of why the bankruptcy
court can’t approve the Chapter 11 reorganization plan coming up
for approval at an Aug. 29 confirmation hearing in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Delaware.  Through mediation in June, liquidated retailers Syms and
subsidiary Filene’s Basement LLC reached settlement with the two
official committees representing shareholders and creditors. The
plan allows existing shareholders to retain their stock while
unsecured creditors of Syms are paid in full over time without
interest on their $54 million in claims. The plan calls for
Marcy Syms, who owns about 54.7 percent of the existing stock,
to sell her holding to the company for $2.49 a share, or a total
of $19.5 million.  The dissident creditors fault the plan for not paying
interest on their claims from the date of bankruptcy in November
until their claims are paid in full years from now. If the
dissidents prevail, shareholders’ recoveries would diminish and
Marcy Syms might not be permitted to receive payment for her
stock so soon.  There are two prongs to the dissidents’ argument.  Around the time the  bankruptcy court  was approving
disclosure materials, the creditors claimed they would have
enough votes to defeat the plan by the class of Syms unsecured
creditors. If that occurs, they previously contended rules
regarding so-called cramdown don’t permit shareholders to retain
a dime until their claims are paid in full with interest.  In papers filed yesterday, the creditors made no
predictions about the vote that will be tallied and reported
Aug. 28.  In yesterday’s filing, the shareholders contend the plan is
fatally defective even if the class votes “yes” because it
still violates the so-called best-interests test that’s included
in bankruptcy law to protect dissident creditors in classes
where the required majorities vote in favor of a plan. The best-
interests test requires the company to show that dissident
creditors will receive more in Chapter 11 than through a Chapter
7 liquidation.  The dissidents contend they come out better in Chapter 7
because Syms has consistently said the parent company is solvent
and able to pay claims in full. The dissidents argue that the
company’s own admissions mean the best interests test can’t be
satisfied.  Syms can counter the argument at the Aug. 29 confirmation
hearing by attempting to persuade the judge that conversion to
Chapter 7 would entail higher costs and lower asset
realizations, making Syms insolvent and paying creditors less
than through the plan.  In case the bankruptcy judge buys into the idea that
unsecured creditors are due interest, Syms reserved the right to
modify the plan to provide interest in whatever amount the
bankruptcy judge requires.  Objecting creditors include ASM Capital LP, CRT Special
Investments LLC, Scoggin Worldwide Fund Ltd. and Spectrum Master
Fund Ltd.  The plan provides that interest will only begin to accrue
on unsecured creditors’ claims if they haven’t been paid full by
October 2015. For other details of Syms’s plan, click here for
the July 13 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The disclosure statement told shareholders they could
expect the stock they retain in the reorganized company to be
worth $1.50 to $2 a share, assuming the real estate in lower
Manhattan is valued at $147 million. If the property is
developed and sold four or five years later, the value may rise
as much as $120 million, increasing the value of equity by $7.22
a share, the disclosure statement shows.  The Syms stock lost 48 percent of its value on July 12 when
the revised disclosure statement was filed, closing that day at
$4.05 in over-the counter-trading. The stock has declined since
then, closing yesterday at $2.90. During bankruptcy, the stock’s
closing peak was $12.65 on Dec. 12.  Syms, based in Secaucus, New Jersey, purchased Filene’s
through a bankruptcy auction in June 2009 in Filene’s second
Chapter 11 reorganization. At the outset of Chapter 11 case in
November, there were 25 Syms stores and 21 Filene’s locations.  The stores were closed and inventory sold. Leases were
terminated, leaving Syms with owned real estate.  Assets were listed in the Chapter 11 petition for
$236 million, including real estate on the books for $97.7
million. Liabilities were listed at $94 million, including $31.1
million owing on a revolving credit with  Bank of America NA  as
agent. In addition, there were $11.1 million in letters of
credit outstanding on the revolver.  The case is In re Filene’s Basement LLC, 11-13511, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Updates  ATP Oil Wins Interim Approval for New Secured Financing  ATP Oil & Gas Corp. (ATPG) , a producer and developer of oil and
gas wells mostly in the  Gulf of Mexico , secured interim approval
of secured financing at the conclusion of a hearing that ran all
day yesterday and into the night.  After changes are made, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Marvin Isgur
in Houston will grant interim approval for a portion of the
financing intended ultimately to include $250 million in new
borrowing power plus conversion of about $365 million in pre-
bankruptcy secured debt into a post-bankruptcy obligation.  For Bloomberg coverage of the hearing, click here.  ATP filed under Chapter 11 on Aug. 17 in its Houston
hometown with cash down to $10 million. ATP listed assets of
$3.6 billion and liabilities of $3.5 billion on the March 31
balance sheet.  The new financing is being provided some of the same
lenders owed $365 million on a first-lien loan where  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  serves as agent. There is $1.5 billion on
second-lien notes with  Bank of New York Mellon Trust Co.  as
agent.  ATP’s other debt includes $35 million on convertible notes
and $23.4 million owing to third parties for their shares of
production revenue. Trade suppliers have claims for
$147 million, ATP said in a court filing.  The second-lien notes traded today for 30 cents on the
dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  ATP reported a net loss of $145.1 million in the first
quarter on revenue of $146.6 million. Income from operations in
the quarter was $11.8 million. For 2011, the net loss was $210.5
million on revenue of $687.2 million. The year’s operating
income was $152.7 million.  The case is In re ATP Oil & Gas Corp., 12-36187, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  Dewey Reports $16.3 Million in July Net Collections  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the defunct  law firm , collected
$20.6 million in accounts receivable in July, bringing the total
to $39.9 million since the bankruptcy began on May 28.  The firm spent $4.3 million in July, bringing net
recoveries in the month to $16.3 million, according to an
operating report filed yesterday with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in New York.  Given net collections and $23.6 million already on hand,
Dewey was able to pay $25.7 million to the secured lender
JPMorgan Chase Bank NA during July.  The operating report doesn’t lay out unbilled fees or
accounts receivable. The balance sheet shows a receivable of
$16.4 million representing disbursements and expenses incurred
for clients.  Dewey has two official committees, one for unsecured
creditors and the other for former partners. The firm once had
1,300 lawyers before liquidation began under Chapter 11 in May.  There was secured debt of about $225 million and accounts
receivable of $217.4 million at the outset of bankruptcy, the
firm said. The petition listed assets of $193 million and
liabilities of $245.4 million as of April 30.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Santa Ysabel Indian Casino Argues for Chapter 11 Eligibility  The American Indian-owned  Santa Ysabel Resort & Casino  on
Lake Henshaw in North San Diego County filed papers this week
arguing that the casino’s status as an unincorporated company
makes it eligible for bankruptcy reorganization in Chapter 11.  The filing was in opposition to a motion by the Yavapai
Apache Nation, a secured creditor, contending that the case must
be dismissed because the casino is actually a tribe ineligible
for bankruptcy.  The casino is owned by the Iipay Nation of Santa Ysabel, a
federally recognized tribe. The tribe admitted that if the
casino and the tribe are one and the same, it’s not eligible for
bankruptcy because a tribe is a governmental unit that can’t be
in bankruptcy.  The casino’s papers this week argue that the business is an
unincorporated company that’s eligible for bankruptcy. An
unincorporated company “is an enterprise of numerous people
joined in a common business,” the casino said.  The casino cited cases allowing involuntary bankruptcies to
be filed against unincorporated businesses. The bankruptcy court
in San Diego will hold a hearing on Sept. 4 to decide whether
the casino is eligible for Chapter 11 reorganization.  The casino’s argument could end up being a double-edged
sword. If the casino establishes itself as an independent
business entity, that fact that it’s not incorporated opens the
door to arguments that individuals involved with the business
have personal liability for the casino’s debt.  The U.S. Trustee filed a companion motion to dismiss the
bankruptcy, also arguing that the unincorporated casino is
ineligible as a government unit.  The 37,000-square-foot casino opened in 2007 with 349  slot
machines , four poker tables and six table games. An accompanying
hotel and resort never were built.  The facility was built with a $26 million loan which the
Apaches took over as the result of a guarantee of bank debt. The
Apaches also made a $7 million loan.  The Apaches say they obtained an $8.8 million judgment from
a tribal court in February that was recognized in California as
a foreign judgment in May. There is a separate $34.6 million
judgment from an  Arizona  court on the  bank loan , according to
the Apaches.  After filing under Chapter 11 in early July, the casino
listed assets of $1.5 million and debt totaling $54.8 million,
including $53.1 million in secured claims.  The case is Santa Ysabel Resort & Casino, 12-09415, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of California (San Diego).  Cliffs Clubs From the Carolinas Confirms Sale Plan  Cliffs Club & Hospitality Group Inc. , the owner of eight
high-end golf and tennis clubs in North Carolina and South
Carolina, conducted a confirmation hearing this month and
received approval of the Chapter 11 plan on Aug. 17.  Confirmation of the plan doubled as approval of a sale to
Carlile Development Group. Competing bidders dropped out before
a court-authorized auction. Carlile is buying the projects along
with a group including SunTx Urbana GP I LLP and Arendale
Holdings Corp.  In exchange for $73.5 million in secured notes, the plan
gives secured lenders $64 million, paid over 20 years without
interest. The lenders will receive the greater of $1 million a
year or half of  cash flow . The outstanding balance comes due at
maturity.  Unsecured creditors with an estimated $3.9 million in
claims were told in the disclosure statement to expect a 75
percent recovery. Contractors with $1.5 million in so-called
mechanics liens are being paid in full without interest.  Club members are invited to join the newly reorganized
club. Those who accept the offer will have a recovery between 35
percent and 75 percent. Members not accepting will have a
projected recovery of 4 percent to 10 percent.  Carlile provided $7.5 million in financing for the Chapter
11 process. The petition listed assets of $175 million with debt
totaling $333 million, including potential membership refund
claims. Revenue in 2011 was $29 million.  Debt included the secured notes with  Wells Fargo Bank NA (WFC)  as
indenture trustee.  Affiliates owning real property for development didn’t file
for bankruptcy. Among the eight clubs, six are “largely
complete” while two aren’t, according to a court filing.  The case is In re Cliffs Club & Hospitality Group Inc.,
12-01220, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of South Carolina
(Spartanburg).  Benada Aluminum Has Interim OK for $6.25 Million Loan  Benada Aluminum Products LLC  from Sanford, Florida, which
filed a petition for Chapter 11 reorganization early this month,
has interim approval for $6.25 million in loans.  The company owns a plant for casting, extruding, painting,
and fabricating aluminum products such as patio screens and
window frames. The current owners purchased the business in a
bankruptcy sale, with loans representing the largest debts in
the new bankruptcy.  Wells Fargo Bank NA is owed $7 million on a revolving
credit and term loan. FLT Capital LLC, a part owner of the
business, is owed $2 million on a secured obligation. There is
$3.4 million owing to trade suppliers.  Benada filed formal lists showing assets of $22 million and
debt totaling $11.7 million. Assets include $3.6 million in
accounts receivable and $1.25 million in inventory.  The court granted interim approval for loans, where $5
million is provided by Wells Fargo and the remainder from FLT. A
final financing hearing is set for Sept. 4.  The case is In re Benada Aluminum Products LLC, 12-10518,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Florida (Orlando).  New Filings  Retailer Mark Shale Returns to Chapter 11 for Liquidation  Chicago retailer  Mark Shale  is back in Chapter 11 for a
second time since 2009, this time to liquidate inventory in
going-out-of-business sales.  Mark Shale filed for Chapter 11 reorganization in Chicago
in March 2009 while operating eight high-end men’s and women’s
apparel stores. The existing owners, along with others, bought
the business in a bankruptcy sale. When the new bankruptcy was
filed yesterday, three stores remained, one in Chicago and two
in the city’s suburbs.  The new bankruptcy resulted from what the company said was
a “significant decrease in sale of women’s clothing in the fall
of 2010.” A lack of cash precluded buying fall inventory this
year. As a result, the company negotiated an agreement before
bankruptcy for  Gordon Brothers  Retail Partners LLC to serve as
agent liquidating the inventory in GOB sales.  Assuming the bankruptcy court agrees with the arrangement,
Gordon Brothers guarantees the retailer will receive 49 percent
of the retail value of inventory. After Gordon Brothers recovers
expenses of the sale, the guaranteed amount, and $500,000 in
fees, the retailer will receive 60 percent of excess proceeds
from the inventory.  The owners of the company are also the lenders, according
to a court filing. They are owed $1 million on a revolving
credit and $4.1 million on a secured loan agreement.  Sales for the 83-year-old company were $15.9 million in
2011. So far this year, revenue has been $6.4 million, according
to a court filing.  To read about the 2009 bankruptcy filing, click here for
the March 25, 2009, Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Assets are listed at $3.2 million, with debt totaling $5.6
million, including about $4 million owing to secured lenders.  The new case is In re MS Mark Shale LLC, 12-33041, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  Advanced Molecular Files for Sale in California  Advanced Molecular Imaging LLC filed a Chapter 11 petition
on Aug. 20 in Woodland Hills, California, with plans to sell the
business within four months.  Based in Northridge, California, AMI develops imaging
equipment for pre-clinical research and diagnosis of disease.
Another unit makes industrial radiation detections systems. The
clinical imaging business is a so-called startup with “no
current revenue,” according to a court filing.  The Chapter 11 petition listed more than $10 million in
debt, including $3 million on a senior secured revolving credit
acquired by Capital Resource Partners V LP. Capital Resource
also holds most of an $8.9 million subordinated secured loan.  About $12.6 million is owing to unsecured creditors, mostly
to SII NanoTechnology USA Inc.  The companies “have been undercapitalized for a while,”
according to a court filing. Capital Resource is providing $1.5
million in financing to tide the company over until a sale can
be completed in about four months.  The case is In re Gamma Medica-Ideas (USA) Inc., 12-17469,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California (Woodland
Hills).  New York Soybean Oil Plant Files to Halt Foreclosure  Ag Pro Ltd. , the owner of a non-operating soybean oil
processing plant, filed for Chapter 11 protection on Aug. 20 in
Utica, New York, to halt foreclosure the next day.  The plant in Massena, New York, ceased operating in 2008.
The owner has a letter of intent to sell the plant. According to
a court filing, the buyer experienced delays in transferring
money from India to the U.S.  The petition listed assets of $1 million and liabilities
totaling $12.3 million, including $2 million owing to secured
creditor  HSBC Bank USA NA. (HSBA)   The case is Ag Pro Ltd., 12-61549, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Northern District of New York (Utica).  Statistics  Thirty-One Companies Now at Risk of Second Default  Thirty-one companies that previously defaulted at least
once have a “material repeat default risk,”  Fitch Ratings  said
in an Aug. 20 report.  Fitch judges a company at risk of another default if it
sports a rating of B- or lower. Fifty companies already
defaulted twice or more on debt. The record goes to  Strauss
Discount Auto  with five Chapter 11 filings, albeit with
different owners under different names.  Fitch calculates that 34 months is the average time between
defaults. So-called distressed debt exchanges were responsible
for 48 percent of initial defaults, Fitch said. Bankruptcy was
most often the cause of second defaults.  According to Fitch, second defaults result from the failure
to reduce debt or operating costs sufficiently in connection
with the initial failure. A Chapter 11 filing typically brings a
larger return to creditors following a second default than a
liquidation in Chapter 7, Fitch said.  Watch List  Allen Systems Covenant Violation Leads to Downgrades  Allen Systems Group Inc., a closely held  software
developer , violated loan covenants and received downgrades
yesterday from Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s .
The new corporate grade from Moody’s is Caa1 while S&P’s peg is
two steps lower at CCC-.  Where S&P said the company has “minimal cash balances,”
Moody’s referred to “very weak liquidity.”  Moody’s said that the company took on more debt to fund
eight acquisitions during the past year. Moody’s previously
downgraded in May.  Based in Naples, Florida, Allen had revenue of
$302 million for the year ended in June, Moody’s said. Debt
includes $300 million in 10.5 percent second-lien notes due in
2016.  Downgrade  Windpoint’s Vertellus Demoted to Caa1 by Moody’s  Chemical maker Vertellus Specialties Inc. experienced a
24 percent decline in operating income during the first half of
the year, prompting Moody’s Investors Service to issue a two-
level downgrade to Caa1 yesterday.  The new Moody’s rating is one level below the ding issued
in April by Standard & Poor’s. S&P was reacting to oversupply in
some of the Indianapolis-based company’s products, particularly
in China.  Vertellus is the largest producer of crop-protection
chemicals known as pyridine and picolines. It is the second-
largest maker of vitamin B-3 used for animals and humans.  The other major line of business is producing castor-oil
based additives used in coatings and insect repellants. Revenue
in the last year was $550 million, Moody’s said.  Vertellus is controlled by private-equity investor Wind
Point Partners.  Bankruptcy Podcast  Patriot Coal Venue, Elpida, Paulson Resorts: Bankruptcy Audio  With the bankruptcy podcast back from vacation, Bloomberg
Law’s Lee Pacchia asks bankruptcy columnist Bill Rochelle
whether the judge in Manhattan will send the  Patriot Coal Corp. (PCXCQ) 
reorganization to West Virginia because the company may have
incorporated two subsidiaries in New York explicitly for the
purpose of establishing venue for the Chapter 11 case outside of
the state of principal operations. The U.S. side of the Elpida
Memory Inc. Japanese bankruptcy may not end up resembling the
Mexican reorganization of Vitro SAB, for reasons Rochelle
explains. The podcast ends by explaining why the inability of
Paulson & Co. and  Winthrop Realty Trust (FUR)  to retain ownership of
four flagship resorts doesn’t speak well for the health of the
real estate market. To listen, click here.  Briefly Noted  Creditor Raises Specter of Collusive Bidding for Kodak Patents  An  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  creditor said in a letter to the U.S.
Trustee that there may be collusive bidding for the bankrupt
company’s portfolio of digital-imaging technology.  For the Bloomberg story, click here.  Originally, the non-public auction process was to have
ended last week. Although Kodak said the slow-motion auction
continues, the company also warned that it “may retain all or
parts of it as a source of creditor recoveries in lieu of a
sale.”  Kodak, based in Rochester, New York, filed for Chapter 11
reorganization in January, listing $5.1 billion in assets and
$6.75 billion in debt.  JetBlue Not Interested in Merger with American Airlines  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  isn’t interested in merging with AMR
Corp., the parent of  American Airlines  Inc., JetBlue Chief
Executive Officer Dave Barger said in an interview at Bloomberg
headquarters.  For the Bloomberg story, click here.  Brokerage Audits Consistently Found Deficient  A survey of 10 smaller auditing firms found they all
performed deficient work in auditing the books of 23 brokers.  For the Bloomberg story on the report by the  Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board , click here.  Bloomberg Story Looks at Symphony Orchestras’ Finances  Five symphony orchestras filed for bankruptcy in recent
years, including the  Philadelphia Orchestra .  A Bloomberg feature story looks at challenges facing
orchestras in the U.S. To read it, click here.  LightSquared Promotes Doug Smith to Chief Executive  Doug Smith, who had been the co-chief operating officer of
LightSquared Inc., was promoted to chief executive officer and
chairman. For the Bloomberg story, click here.  LightSquared spent $4 billion developing a wireless
communications systems using earth-based and satellite
technology. It filed under Chapter 11 in May.  Advance Sheets  Another Split Decision on 523(a)(19) Dischargeability  Two federal circuit courts of appeal have now ruled in
split decisions that a bankrupt must have been saddled with a
judgment for personally violating securities laws before the
debt is nondischargeable under Section 523(a)(19) of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Denver joined an appeals court
from  San Francisco , which reached the same result in September
2010.  The case decided on Aug. 20 by the Denver court involved
individuals successfully sued in state court for unjust
enrichment by receiving payments from a  Ponzi scheme  where the
perpetrator was convicted and went to jail.  Faced with the judgments, the individuals filed for
bankruptcy, and the Oklahoma Department of Securities sued
seeking a declaration that the debts weren’t dischargeable under
Section 523(a)(19) as judgments for violation of state
 securities law .  On summary judgment, the bankruptcy court declared the
debts nondischargeable, and the district court affirmed. On
appeal, the 10th Circuit in Denver reversed in a 2-1 decision
where the 10-page majority opinion was written by Circuit Judge
Terrence L. O’Brien.  O’Brien framed the question as whether the judgment was
“for violation” of securities laws. He said it wasn’t because
“they never have been charged with such violation.”  For the majority, he said the “plain language of the
statute” makes the judgment dischargeable, because it was for
unjust enrichment from someone else’s violation of securities
law.  Chief Circuit Judge Mary B. Briscoe dissented in a six-page
opinion. She said that nothing in the plain language of the
statute requires that the bankrupt must have committed the
securities law violation. She pointed to other subsections in
Section 523 where debts are nondischargeable only for actions
“by the debtor.”  Briscoe also interpreted the state court judgments as
finding that the bankrupts violated state securities laws.  To read about the 2011 case from the Ninth Circuit in San
Francisco called Sherman v. SEC, click here for the Sept. 22,
2011, Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The case is Oklahoma Department of Securities v. Wilcox,
10-6056, U.S. Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit (Denver).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 