-- U.K. Gilts Advance as Japan Deficit Widens, Greece Asks for Time
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E l e a n o r   L a w r i e
-- 2012-08-22T15:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/u-k-gilts-open-higher-with-10-year-yield-dropping-to-1-66-.html
U.K. gilts rose, pushing 10-year
yields down by the most in almost two weeks, after a report
showed  Japan ’s trade deficit widened more than analysts
forecast, fueling concern the global recovery is stalling.  Two-year notes snapped two days of declines as Greek Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras’s call for more time to carry out
policy changes to deal with his nation’s debt crisis damped
demand for higher-yielding assets.  Bank of England  policy maker
 Adam Posen  said the U.K. economy had stagnated. U.S. and German
government bonds rose, while technology stocks helped push
equity markets lower after  Dell Inc. (DELL)  revenue projections missed
analysts’ estimates.  “A combination of weak trade data from Japan and some poor
data from Dell is feeding through to bonds this morning, so
gilts and bunds are playing catch up with the move in Treasuries
in the Asian sessions,” said  Sam Hill , a gilt strategist at
 Royal Bank of Canada  in  London .  Yields on 10-year gilts declined eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 1.63 percent at 4:22 p.m. London time,
after sliding nine basis points, the biggest drop since Aug. 10.
The 4 percent bond maturing March 2022 rose 0.79, or 7.90 pounds
per 1,000-pound ($1,580) face amount, to 120.89. Two-year yields
were three basis points lower at 0.17 percent.  U.K. government bonds have gained 2.3 percent this year,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Greek bonds slumped
16 percent while German bonds, perceived to be among the safest
debt securities in the euro area, made 2.6 percent.  Gilts stayed higher after Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker, who meets Samaras in  Athens  today, said a
decision on providing more Greek aid won’t be reached before
October.  ‘Poor Growth’  The U.K. is “in a state of poor growth, stagnation,”
Posen, who leaves his position as an external member of the
Monetary Policy Committee on Aug. 31, said in an interview
broadcast on  BBC ’s “Hardtalk” program today.  “Myself and other external members of the committee have
suggested we should be buying things other than just gilts,” he
said. “That was the key way in which we didn’t live up to what
we could have done.”  Gilts have gained this year as the economy slipped into a
recession and  Europe ’s leaders failed to resolve the region’s
debt crisis, fueling demand for the British securities as a
haven. U.K. gross domestic product has contracted in the past
three quarters, according to government data. Bank of England
officials kept the target of their quantitative-easing program
on hold on Aug. 2 after increasing it in July by 50 billion
pounds to 375 billion pounds.  Sterling was little changed at $1.5796 and was 0.2 percent
stronger at 78.89 pence per euro.  Britain’s currency has lost 0.7 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar fell 1.9 percent and
the euro gained 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Eleanor Lawrie in London at 
 elawrie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  