-- U.K. Urged to Seek Investment to Boost Build-to-Rent Housing
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-08-23T10:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/u-k-urged-to-seek-investment-to-boost-build-to-let-housing.html
The U.K. should take steps to
encourage large-scale investment in build-to-rent housing to
meet soaring demand, a government-commissioned report said.  Proposals published today by  3i Group Plc (III)  Chairman Adrian Montague said local councils should use flexibility in the
planning system to enable developments of privately rented
homes, including the waiving of rules requiring a quota of
affordable homes for low-paid workers in every new development.
Disused buildings and government land should be released for
build-to-let developments, he said.  “My review shows that the rental housing sector offers
potential investment opportunities,” Montague said in an e-mailed statement. “Real momentum has been inhibited by
constraints affecting the supply of stock, the treatment of
rented housing schemes under the planning system and the need to
create confidence among investors.”  Housing Minister Grant Shapps, responding to Montague’s
report, said the government is determined “to encourage greater
investment in the build-to-let market and boost the country’s
private rented sector, which plays an integral role in meeting
the nation’s housing needs and aspirations.” He said the
government would set out its detailed response to the
recommendations later this year.  Grainger, Berkeley  Companies that might benefit include  Grainger Plc (GRI) , the
U.K.’s largest publicly traded residential landlord, and
homebuilder  Berkeley Group Holdings Plc (BKG) , which has an affiliate
that buys and manages new rental homes.  Asked to justify removing the requirement to build
affordable homes, Shapps told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program
that nearly 20 billion pounds ($32 billion) will have been spent
on providing such housing over the five years to 2015.  “The question is what else can we do to get these
developments moving,” the minister said. “If the costs of
building are so high that you end up with no development, no
regeneration, no community benefits overall, then, actually,
you’ve set the bar so high that it’s disadvantageous to
everyone.”  The opposition Labour Party said it welcomed many of the
proposals, though not those on affordable housing.  “As rents hit a record high in July, many families are
already paying the price of the Tory-led government’s failure to
build enough affordable homes,” Labour’s housing spokesman,
Jack Dromey, said in an e-mailed statement. “The government
should be acting to address this problem, not looking for ways
to water down existing legislation which could make the problem
worse.”  The chief executive officer of housing charity  Shelter ,
Campbell Robb, said the Montague report has “missed a trick”
in failing to address the needs of people already renting
property who are “paying sky-high rents and living under
constant threat of eviction or further rent rises.” He made his
comments in a statement on Shelter’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  