-- U.S. Authorities Seize Three Mobile App Websites
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-08-22T00:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/u-s-authorities-seize-three-mobile-app-websites.html
U.S. law enforcement officials for
the first time seized three website domains allegedly used to
distribute copyrighted mobile phone applications.  “Software apps have become an increasingly essential part
of our nation’s economy and creative culture, and the criminal
division is committed to working with our law enforcement
partners to protect the creators of these apps and other forms
of intellectual property from those who seek to steal it,”
 Lanny Breuer , assistant attorney general for the  Justice
Department ’s Criminal Division, said in a statement.  The Justice Department, FBI and U.S. attorney’s office in
the Northern District of Georgia announced the seizure today as
part of a crackdown on infringement of copyrighted mobile phone
applications. The three website domains --  applanet.net ,
 appbucket.net  and  snappzmarket.com  -- now belong to the
government and visitors to those sites will be greeted with
banners announcing the seizure.  The move is part of an effort by the Justice Department’s
Task Force on Intellectual Property and comes after  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  agents downloaded thousands of copies of
copyrighted applications for wireless devices using Google
Inc.’s Android operating system, according to the Justice
Department.  U.S. officials got nine search warrants in six different
U.S. districts, and law enforcement officials from  France  and
the Netherlands helped in the seizure.  “The theft of  intellectual property , particularly within
the cyber arena, is a growing problem and one that cannot be
ignored by the U.S government’s law enforcement community,”
Brian D. Lamkin, special agent in charge of the FBI’s Atlanta
field office, said in a statement. “These thefts cost companies
millions of dollars and can even inhibit the development and
implementation of new ideas and applications.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  