-- S&P 500 Erases Loss as Fed Minutes Show Stimulus Support
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-08-22T20:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/u-s-stock-futures-decline-as-japan-trade-deficit-widens.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
erased earlier losses as minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s last
meeting showed many policy makers favored more stimulus soon.  Apple Inc. rose 2 percent, pacing a recovery among
technology companies.  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  jumped 3.9 percent as a
report showed sales of existing homes climbed in July from an
eight-month low.  Dell Inc. (DELL)  sank 5.4 percent after cutting this
year’s profit forecast. Rival  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  gained 1.6
percent in late trading after the world’s  biggest computer maker 
reported profit and sales that matched analysts’ estimates.  The  S&P 500  rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,413.49 at 4
p.m. in New York, after dropping as much as 0.5 percent earlier.
The gauge briefly topped a four-year high yesterday. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  lost 30.82 points, or 0.2 percent, to
13,172.76. Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was 5.4
billion shares, 14 percent below the three-month average.  “The Fed minutes point slightly more in the direction of
QE,” Seth Setrakian, the New York-based co-head of U.S.
equities at First New York Securities, said in a telephone
interview, referring to an additional round of stimulus known as
quantitative easing. “It’s certainly seems to have a dovish
tone, just a little bit more than what people thought before.”
He said, “The market’s have become much more favorably inclined
since the minutes came out.”  Many Federal Reserve policy makers said additional stimulus
would probably be needed soon unless the economy shows signs of
a durable pickup, according to the record of the Federal Open
Market Committee’s July 31-Aug. 1 gathering released today in
Washington. The S&P 500 has rallied 11 percent since June 1 on
speculation global central banks will take action to stimulate
growth.  Jackson Hole  Policy makers said after the meeting that they will step up
record stimulus if needed to spur growth and cut a jobless rate
stuck above 8 percent since February 2009. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will have an opportunity to clarify his views in an
Aug. 31 speech at a forum for central bankers in Jackson Hole,
Wyoming, where he signaled a second round of bond buying by the
Fed in 2010. Fed officials next meet on Sept. 12-13.  Stocks worldwide fell earlier today after a report said
Japan’s trade deficit was 517.4 billion yen ($6.5 billion) in
July as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and a slowdown in China
dragged down exports.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , the head of
the euro group of finance ministers, said today in Athens he’s
not advocating a third support package for Greece and that the
country needed to press ahead with reforms it’s promised to
European Union partners. Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
said earlier that his country needs “more air to breathe” in
dealing with its debt crisis.  Greek Talks  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  meet tomorrow to discuss the fiscal crisis,
and both will talk separately with Greece’s Samaras later this
week. Merkel signaled today she’s willing to discuss Greece’s
request for more time to meet the terms of its international
rescue, leaving the door open to potential concessions.  “The calendar is chock full of U.S. and European policy
event risk over the next few weeks,” wrote a team led by Myles Zyblock, the Toronto-based chief institutional strategist at
Royal Bank of Canada in a note dated today. “Given the
prevailing optimism implied by market prices, we think there is
room for policy disappointment.”  Apple, the world’s most valuable company, added 2 percent
to $668.87. Technology companies rose 0.3 percent as a group
after earlier falling as much as 0.7 percent.  Commodity shares had the biggest gain among 10 groups in
the  S&P 500 (SPX) , rising 1 percent. Ten out of 11 members of the  S&P
Supercomposite Homebuilding Index (S15HOME)  advanced as the gauge climbed
3.1 percent.  Homebuilders Soar  PulteGroup, the largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue,  jumped 
3.9 percent to $13.29 after sales of existing homes climbed 2.3
percent in July to a 4.47 million annual rate, according to data
from the National Association of Realtors. The median forecast
of 73 economists called for a rise to a 4.51 million pace.  DR Horton Inc. (DHI)  added 4.1 percent to $19 and  Lennar Corp. (LEN) 
rose 3.8 percent to $32.35.  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S.
luxury-home builder, jumped 3.8 percent to $33.01 after
reporting third-quarter earnings that beat analysts’ estimates
as revenue increased.  Discover, Sunrise  Discover Financial Services climbed 3.9 percent to $38.43.
The Riverwoods, Illinois-based company announced a payment-
processing deal with  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal unit. PayPal customers
will be able to use their accounts at more than 7 million
merchant locations that already accept Discover starting in
2013. San Jose, California-based EBay rallied 2.5 percent to
$47.  Sunrise Senior Living Inc. (SRZ) , the manager of retirement
communities, surged 60 percent to $14.26.  Health Care REIT Inc. (HCN) ,
a Toledo, Ohio-based real estate fund that invests in housing
and health-care properties, said it will buy Sunrise for $14.50
a share in an all-cash transaction. That’s 62 percent higher
than Sunrise’s closing price yesterday. Health Care fell 2.7
percent to $58.14.  Dell fell 5.4 percent to $11.68, as the world’s third-
largest maker of personal computers forecast third-quarter
revenue that missed analysts’ estimates and cut its profit
outlook by 20 percent. Competition from Apple Inc.’s iPad and an
anemic global economic recovery is dragging down PC demand.  Hewlett-Packard  Hewlett-Packard lost 3.7 percent to $19.20 ahead of its
earnings report, for the biggest decline in the Dow. Shares
rebounded 1.6 percent to $19.51 at 4:50 p.m. New York time after
the company reported profit excluding costs of $1 a share and
$29.7 billion in sales for the third quarter, matching analysts’
predictions.  The company also cut the high end of its forecast for full-
year profit, evidence of lackluster demand for personal
computers and business-technology services and underscoring the
turnaround challenge facing Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman .  Industrial stocks posted the biggest losses out of 10
groups in the S&P 500, falling 0.4 percent.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,
the world’s largest maker of construction and mining equipment,
retreated 1.7 percent to $88.72 after BHP Billiton Ltd. said it
doesn’t expect to approve any spending on major projects this
fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  