-- Recession Likely in 2013 If U.S. Congress Doesn’t Act, CBO Says
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-08-22T18:46:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/u-s-budget-deficit-to-reach-1-1-trillion-this-year-cbo-says.html
The  U.S. economy  will probably tip
into recession next year if lawmakers can’t break an impasse
over the  federal budget , according to a report.  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  said today that
scheduled tax increases and spending cuts in 2013 would reverse
the modest economic recovery. Economic output would shrink next
year by 0.5 percent, joblessness would climb to about 9 percent
with “economic conditions in 2013 that will probably be
considered a recession,” the agency said in a biannual report
on the budget and economic outlook.  “Whether lawmakers allow scheduled policy changes to take
effect or alter them will play a crucial role in determining the
path of the federal budget over the next decade and the outlook
for the economy,” according to the report.  Congressional leaders have said they probably won’t
consider until after the election the Bush-era tax cuts set to
expire Dec. 31 or $1 trillion in automatic spending cuts that
would begin taking effect in January. There is no sign of an
agreement to avoid a so-called fiscal cliff, and the CBO report
prompted partisan finger-pointing.  The deficit will reach $1.1 trillion this year, about $100
billion less than CBO had projected in March, according to the
report. That would be down from last year’s $1.3 trillion, in
part because  tax revenue  has risen by almost 6 percent and
spending is down by about 1 percent this year.  Budget Deficit  It would be the fourth consecutive year the U.S. would run
a trillion-dollar budget deficit. The budget office forecasts
U.S.  debt  will total 73 percent of the nation’s gross domestic
product this year. That would be the highest level since 1950
and about twice as large as five years ago, before the most
recent recession, CBO said.  The report, coming less than three months before the Nov. 6
election, may influence debate between Republicans and Democrats
over fiscal policy. The two parties have offered different plans
for taxing and spending, with Republicans calling for spending
cuts and no tax increases, and President  Barack Obama  proposing
higher taxes for top earners.  The report shows the need for lawmakers to give middle
class families “confidence that they won’t see their taxes go
up at the beginning of next year,” said White House spokesman
 Jay Carney  in a statement.  ’Work With Us’  Congressional Republicans  said today’s report emphasizes
the need to avert the so-called fiscal cliff.  “Instead of threatening to drive us off the fiscal cliff
and tank our economy in their quest for higher taxes, I would
urge President Obama and congressional Democrats to work with
us,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican  said in a
statement.  Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland , the top
Democrat on the House budget committee, said: “Republicans in
Congress refuse to enact the president’s plan, choosing instead
to protect special interests and tax breaks for the
wealthiest.”  The economic recovery will continue at “modest” pace, the
budget office said, with real GDP growth growing at an annual
rate of 2.25 percent in the second half of this year. The
jobless rate will continue to exceed 8 percent while inflation
will remain low, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this
story: Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  