-- UN’s Ban to Attend Iran Summit Over Israel’s Opposition
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2012-08-23T10:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/un-chief-ban-ki-moon-shuns-israeli-advice-to-attend-iran-summit.html
United Nations  Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s decision to attend a summit of the Non-Aligned
Movement in Iran’s capital drew chagrin from the U.S. and
continued opposition from Israel.  Ban, who will be in Tehran from Aug. 29-31, “takes
seriously his responsibility and that of the  United Nations  to
pursue diplomatic engagement with all of its  member states ,”
the UN said yesterday in an e-mailed statement announcing his
plans. He will convey “the clear concerns and expectations of
the international community” on issues including the  Iran’s
nuclear program , according to the statement.  Hosting the summit next week in Tehran will reduce the
Persian Gulf nation’s isolation and help it bypass international
sanctions, the state-run Mehr News agency reported today, citing
Industries, Mines and Commerce Minister Mehdi Ghazanfari. Ban
condemned Iranian remarks threatening Israel’s existence,
according to a UN statement on Aug. 17.  “We have no doubt that the Iranian regime will use the
conference to cover up its crimes,” Israeli Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman Ilana Stein said today by phone from  Jerusalem . “We
expect those who have decided to go to make sure they do not
fall into the Iranian propaganda trap and to make clear their
positions regarding the actions of the ayatollahs’ regime.”  Manipulation  The U.S. has “concerns that Iran is going to manipulate
this opportunity and the attendees to try to deflect attention
from its own failings,” U.S. State Department spokeswoman
 Victoria Nuland  said yesterday in Washington.  “We are all going to watch and see how this proceeds and
whether he takes the opportunity to make clear the concerns that
the international community has about Iran’s behavior,” Nuland
said at a regular press briefing. “He needs to take that
opportunity if he’s chosen to go.”  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  had asked Ban not
to go to Tehran. The U.S. also told Ban that Iran was “a
strange place and an inappropriate place” for the international
meeting, Nuland said on Aug. 16.  Iran leads the so-called Non-Aligned Movement of 118
developing nations. Leaders including Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi and Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  are scheduled to
attend the gathering.  Mursi’s visit will be the first by an Egyptian president to
Iran in 30 years and marks a sharp turn in relations between the
two countries. Relations cooled after the 1979  Islamic
Revolution  in Iran, when the two nations only maintained low-
level diplomatic ties for years.  Iran is under UN and international sanctions for its
nuclear program. Countries including the U.S. and Israel say
Iran is seeking the capability to develop atomic weapons and the
effort must be halted. Iran says the program is for civilian
purposes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Johnston at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net  