-- UN Inspectors to Meet Iran Over Access to Dispute Sites
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-08-22T15:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/un-inspectors-to-meet-iran-over-access-to-dispute-sites.html
The United Nations nuclear chief
isn’t optimistic that a meeting with  Iran  this week will yield
access to disputed documents, people and sites allegedly linked
to the Persian Gulf country’s nuclear program.  A “high-level” meeting between International Atomic
Energy Agency inspectors and Iran will be held Aug. 24 at Iran’s
embassy in Vienna, IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano said today
at a press briefing in Helsinki. It is the first face-to-face
discussion since talks over a so-called structured approach to
the atomic investigation broke down in June.  “I can’t be too optimistic, but I’m fully committed to
finding a solution,” Amano said. “I have no indication that
the issue is closer to being solved. The important thing is that
we keep on putting effort into solving it with diplomatic
measures.”  The last meeting between Iran and the IAEA collapsed on
June 8. Inspectors want access to sites inside Iran beyond what
is mandated by the IAEA’s agreements with the country. While
Iran’s declared nuclear facilities have been subject to about
4,000 man-days of inspections since 2003, the agency has
repeatedly said it cannot ensure inspectors have seen the full
scope of the country’s atomic work.  The U.S. and other Western nations accuse Iran of working
to develop nuclear weapons while Iran says its atomic program is
for peaceful purposes.  Sixth Round  “Expectations are fairly low,”  Mark Hibbs , a nuclear
analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said
in a telephone interview from  London . “If the agency and Iran
are going to reach an agreement, it would mean the Iranians
would have to make considerable concessions.”  Negotiators will try to find a way “to resolve outstanding
issues relating to  Iran’s nuclear program ,” the IAEA said. The
Vienna-based agency’s top atomic inspector, Herman Nackaerts,
along with the assistant director general for policy, Mariano
Grossi, are due to attend the meeting with Iranian officials.  It will be the sixth round of talks since the IAEA and Iran
began negotiations over widening access to suspect facilities.
Amano announced an agreement on May 22, only to have the
breakthrough fall apart two weeks later amid Iranian accusations
of spying.  Commercial satellite images show Iran has completed cleanup
activity at a suspected nuclear weapons-related site, the
Washington-based Institute for Science and International
Security wrote in a July 31 report. The IAEA received
intelligence information from  member states  that allegedly show
Iran built a blast chamber at the Parchin military complex that
could be used to test nuclear-bomb components.  ‘Hamper Inspections’  “We think that Iran is moving soil, removing tents, doing
landscape activities, and I think this could hamper our
inspection activities,” Amano said, adding that the agency
hasn’t drawn a conclusion that Iran was working on atomic
weapons. “It is in the interest of Iran to clarify these
issues.”  The IAEA is expected to release its quarterly report on the
Islamic Republic before its 35-member board of governors meets
Sept. 10 in the Austrian capital.  “The IAEA wouldn’t have been comfortable reporting to the
board that there’s been no further engagement with Iran since
June,” Hibbs said. “If the agency reports to the board that
there’s been no progress, then that plays into the hands of
people in  Israel  pushing for an attack.”  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  told visiting
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  on Aug. 1 that time “is
running out” for a peaceful solution to Iran’s atomic program.
The Tel Aviv-based Haaretz newspaper reported on Aug. 10 that
Netanyahu and Defense Minister Ehud Barak are considering
bombing Iran’s atomic sites before U.S. elections on Nov. 6.  Iran is prepared for an Israeli assault, Foreign Minister
 Ali Akbar Salehi  said today, adding that the threats are more
“psychological and propaganda” than serious, the official
 Islamic Republic News Agency  reported.  “We take any trivial threat seriously and are ready to
respond to any attack,” Salehi said, according to IRNA. “This
doesn’t mean the threats are serious.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  