-- Hungarian Banks Win Dismissal of Holocaust Claims
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-22T20:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/hungarian-banks-win-dismissal-of-holocaust-claims.html
Hungarian victims of the Holocaust
failed to persuade a panel of judges that they should be able to
sue Budapest-based  OTP Bank Plc (OTP)  and MKB Bank Zrt, a unit of
Munich-based BayernLB Holdings HG, in U.S. courts.  The  U.S. court of appeals  in Chicago today dismissed the
case against the banks, ruling that American courts don’t have
jurisdiction because the lenders lack a sufficient connection
with the U.S.  “This decision should not, of course, block plaintiffs
from pursuing their claims in another forum, but they cannot
proceed against these defendants in U.S. federal courts,” U.S.
Circuit Judge David Hamilton wrote for the unanimous three-judge
panel.  The ruling in favor of OTP Bank and MKB Bank was one of
three issued by the appeals court today on claims filed by
Hungarian Holocaust victims or their heirs, who collectively are
seeking about $75 billion in damages, according to the rulings.  The victim-plaintiffs claim the banks and other defendants
aided and abetted the Nazi-driven World War II-era genocide in
which six million European Jews perished.  The court rejected a related appeal by  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) 
on procedural grounds. The Vienna-based bank was challenging a
lower court denial of a dismissal request.  National Bank  Finally, the same three judges threw out a ruling by a
lower court that denied a bid by Hungary’s national bank, Magyar
Nemzeti Bank, and its national railway to have the claims
dismissed under the federal Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act.  Still, the appeals court didn’t throw out those claims. It
returned the matter to the lower court for consideration of
whether the plaintiff-victims had exhausted their remedies in
Hungary and whether the railroad had enough commercial contact
with the U.S. to justify American court jurisdiction.  Plaintiffs’ attorney Robert Pavich of Chicago said while he
hadn’t fully reviewed all three rulings, he was gratified by the
court’s decision concerning Erste.  Asked whether he would continue to pursue the OTP and MKB
claims, Pavich said, “If there’s going to be a refiling, one of
the places you would have to look at seriously would be
 Hungary .”  Pavich’s clients in that case were seeking group status as
well as an award of at least $2 billion in damages plus interest
compounded annually from 1944, according to a January 2011
revised complaint.  Neither OTP’s investor relations department nor the media
relations department in BayernLB Holdings immediately replied to
e-mailed requests for comment on the decision.  The cases are Abelesz v. Erste Group Bank AG, 11-2940;
Abelesz v. Magyar Nemzeti Bank, 11-2387, and Abelesz v. OTP
Bank, 11-235, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  