-- UPS Extends TNT Offer to November on Antitrust Procedures
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-08-22T08:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/ups-extends-tnt-offer-to-november-on-antitrust-procedures.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  said it
will extend the offer period for  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  by more than two
months as the delivery companies await antitrust decisions on
the 5.16 billion-euro ($6.4 billion) takeover plan.  TNT shareholders may tender stock until Nov. 9 instead of
Aug. 31 because regulatory clearance won’t be received by the
original deadline, Atlanta-based UPS said today in a statement.
The companies “remain committed” to the plan “and are working
to fulfill all offer conditions.”  European Union regulators suspended their Dec. 12 deadline
for reviewing UPS’s bid for Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based TNT in
mid-August to seek more information from the parties on the
deal. UPS, the world’s biggest package-delivery company, is
seeking to expand in  Europe  with the purchase, which would vault
it to equal footing in the region with  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL,
the market leader.  Antitrust authorities are probably “looking at potential
competition concerns in numerous countries, which makes me a bit
scared,” even as delays in clearance are common, said Andre Mulder, an Amsterdam-based Kepler Capital Markets analyst who
recommends buying TNT shares. “If they have to dispose of too
many things, people could ask, what sense does it make,” as
cost-savings may be harder to achieve.  TNT rose as much as 0.4 percent to 8.89 euros at 10:15 a.m.
in Amsterdam, valuing the company at 4.83 billion euros. The
current stock price is about 6.4 percent less than UPS’s offer
of 9.50 euros a share cash, which TNT accepted in March. The
euro has declined since the bid agreement was reached, reducing
the dollar value of the offer from an initial $6.8 billion.  The tie-up with unprofitable TNT will immediately add to
earnings on an adjusted basis once the takeover is done, UPS
said in March. UPS and TNT expect to complete the transaction in
the fourth quarter, the U.S. company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  