-- Verizon-Cable Spectrum Deal Said to Get Unanimous FCC Vote
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-08-22T21:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/verizon-cable-spectrum-deal-said-to-have-unanimous-fcc-approval.html
Verizon Wireless  won final U.S.
clearance to buy unused airwaves from cable providers led by
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  as the Federal Communications Commission voted 5-0
to approve the $3.6 billion purchase, agency officials said.  The vote, described by two officials who declined to be
named because the action hasn’t been made public, clears the way
for a partnership between the biggest U.S. wireless provider and
top cable companies including No. 1 Comcast and the second-
largest,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)   The transaction and accompanying cooperation pacts won
antitrust approval Aug. 16 from the  Justice Department .  Spokesmen Mark Wigfield of the FCC, Sena Fitzmaurice of
Comcast and Ed McFadden of Verizon declined to comment.  Verizon agreed to sell some airwaves and to accelerate
building out some frequencies as it sought regulatory approval,
FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski , a Democrat, said in a statement
issued Aug. 16 as he asked fellow commissioners to approve the
deal.  Verizon in June agreed to sell airwaves to T-Mobile USA
Inc., the smallest of the four nationwide wireless providers.  Verizon and the cable companies proposed the deal in
December. They agreed not to cross-market each other’s services
in areas served by Verizon’s FiOS high-speed data service, the
Justice Department said as it approved the deal.  Smartphone Growth  Verizon, based in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, wants to add
airwaves as customers increasingly adopt smartphones such as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone to watch video and browse the Web.  The Justice Department’s conditions won’t do enough to
ensure competition in a market characterized by locally
exclusive cable companies and a wireless sector dominated by
four players, critics said.  Final approval gives Verizon success where No. 2 mobile
carrier  AT&T Inc. (T)  failed last year, when regulators barred it
from buying T-Mobile because the transaction aimed at acquiring
more airwaves would have eliminated the smaller carrier and
reduced competition.  Verizon’s proposed sale of spectrum to T-Mobile turned the
unit of Bonn-based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  from an opponent of the
transactions into a supporter.  Closely held Bright House Networks contributed some of the
airwaves being sold to Verizon by the cable group including
Philadelphia-based Comcast and New York-based Time Warner known
as SpectrumCo. Separately, Cox Communications agreed to sell
airwaves to Verizon for $315 million.  Comcast owns 64 percent of SpectrumCo and is to receive
about $2.3 billion from the sale, the companies said in a
statement in December. Time Warner owns 31 percent of SpectrumCo
and will receive about $1.1 billion. Bright House owns 5 percent
of SpectrumCo and will receive about $189 million, the companies
said.  Verizon Wireless is 55 percent owned by New York-based
Verizon and 45 percent-owned by  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , based in
Newbury, England.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  