-- Vestas Apes Rolls-Royce to Salvage Wind Turbine Profit
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-08-23T17:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/vestas-apes-rolls-royce-to-salvage-wind-turbine-profit.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  is copying
strategies used by mobile phone operators and  Rolls-Royce
Holding Plc (RR/) , boosting its maintenance and spare parts business
to a record to salvage flagging profit from manufacturing.  The world’s biggest producer of wind turbines forecasts
revenue from servicing windmills to climb 21 percent this year
to 850 million euros ($1 billion). The Danish company yesterday
increased guidance for the unit’s margin this year to 17
percent, offsetting unprofitable sales of the machines that can
weigh upwards of 200 tons each.  “In 96 percent of the cases when we announce new orders it
comes with a service contract, so that’s going to be a very
important part of our business,” Chief Executive Officer  Ditlev Engel  said in a phone interview yesterday as Vestas reported its
loss widened in the first half. “On an annualized basis it’s
growing around 25 percent year-on-year.”  Intensified competition from Chinese companies gutted
turbine prices and forced Vestas to increase its reliance on
maintenance. The move mimics how mobile phone operators give
away handsets and Rolls-Royce sells  aircraft engines , signing
clients to service agreements that provide steady revenue, said
Sean McLoughlin, a clean energy analyst at  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   ‘Critical Mass’  The move signals the wind industry is maturing, with an
installed base that can provide “the volume and critical mass”
needed for a servicing business, said  Jacob Pedersen , an analyst
at  Sydbank A/S. (SYDB)  “Every seller of large equipment -- the  mining
industry , the cement industry -- makes money from services.”  Vestas is scaling back manufacturing to contain widening
losses, and forecast a decline in turbine shipments in 2013. The
shares, which gained 16 percent in the week before earnings,
closed 5 percent higher in Copenhagen today. That cut its loss
in the past year to 66 percent, far underperforming the 16
percent decline of the  Bloomberg Wind Energy Index (BWIND)  as the
company slashes its workforce to curb its widening loss.  Turbine makers including  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Siemens AG (SIE) 
and Enercon GmbH are also beefing up their service offerings,
said Pedersen of Sydbank, which is based in Aabenraa, Denmark.
Vestas is leading the industry in developing maintenance as a
way to offset declining profit from turbine sales.  “I can’t grasp why they’re not all doing it in a big
manner,” Pedersen said. “If you sell some hardware, you’ve got
to make your bucks on the servicing afterwards.”  Turnaround Plan  For Vestas, the services business is a cornerstone of a
turnaround plan announced in January. Yesterday, Engel gave the
most detailed forecast yet of the expectation for the unit.  Vestas in 2011 posted a  margin  on earnings before interest
and tax of minus 0.7, which included a positive margin of 16
percent for its service business. Yesterday it kept guidance for
an overall Ebit margin of zero to 4 percent, and increased the
services margin guidance to 17 percent from 14 percent.  The global market for maintaining  wind turbines  more than
doubled to 8.3 billion euros since 2007, according to Bloomberg
New Energy Finance. Vestas is vying with its rivals including GE
and  Nordex SE (NDX1)  for a bigger share of the business.  Depending on services is nothing new for established
manufacturers. Rolls-Royce, the London-based maker of aircraft
engines, had revenue of 3 billion pounds ($4.7 billion) from
servicing in the first half of 2012, about 53 percent of its
sales, according to its earnings report on July 26. Mobile phone
providers from  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  to  AT&T Inc. (T)  routinely sell
handsets below cost, recouping profit through service contracts.  Wider Margins  “If you look at jet turbine companies like Rolls-Royce,
they would tend to make more revenue on after-sales servicing
than on the original sales of their engines,” Robert Clover,
research director at Aarhus, Denmark-based Make Consulting, said
in an interview. “If you’re making zero percent margins on your
manufacturing business, you’ll take a mid-teen margin on a
smaller side of your business.”  Gamesa Corp. (GAM)  Tecnologica SA is also ramping up its services
offering in a reversal of policy after the Zamudio, Spain-based
company sold the unit performing that function in 2006 for 170
million euros to  3i Group Plc. (III)  Gamesa On April 13  said  it
started a new unit to service components such as gearboxes,
generators and blades.  As part of a reorganization this year, Vestas on Feb. 1 set
up a dedicated services unit to capitalize on what it described
as its “fastest-growing business area.”  ‘Locks Them In’  “They don’t just make it and sell it,” McLoughlin said.
“They make it, lease it out to the customer, which ensures they
get the upgrades and Rolls-Royce locks them into the servicing
and the maintenance. This is higher margins than the
manufacturing.”  Germany’s Nordex, another of Europe’s three traded turbine
makers, said in its annual report that it wants to widen the
share of services from a 10th of revenue. GE, with more than
half of installed wind turbines in the U.S., expects a rising
share of sales from services rather than equipment, said  Stephen Tusa , an analyst at  JP Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in New York.  “With a slower growth equipment market, GE is refocusing
toward a broader service offering,” Tusa said in a July 17 note
to clients. He estimates that services now represent less than
10 percent of GE’s wind revenue.  Vestas got 12 percent of its sales from services last year
and may boost that level to 13 percent this year. It has a
backlog of work from the unit of 4.8 billion euros, half of its
turbine order book. That helped boost Vestas’s total order
backlog to a record 14.4 billion euros in the first half.  The 850 million euros expected from services would be about
13 percent of 6.5 billion euros, which is the low end of the
company’s forecast for revenue in 2012.  Chinese Rivals  That income would soften the blow from declining orders for
turbines as governments from the U.S. to Europe scale back
subsides and competitors such as Nordex and  Xinjiang Goldwind
Science & Technology Co. Ltd. (2208)  of China siphon away orders.  Engel said in a conference call yesterday that the company
has a manufacturing capacity of about 9 gigawatts of turbines.
It expects shipments to decline to 5 gigawatts in 2013 from 6.3
gigawatts this year.  “Service is not as capex-intensive as the regular
business,” Engel, the CEO, said in the interview. “We have 2
revenue streams going forward: turbines and services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  