-- Vets Affairs Agency May Have Spent $100 Million on Events
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-08-22T21:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/vets-affairs-agency-may-have-spent-100-million-on-events-2-.html
The Department of  Veterans Affairs 
may have spent more than $100 million for conferences last year,
including two events in  Orlando ,  Florida , according to a U.S.
lawmaker.  The agency has provided conflicting reports on its
conference budget for the year that ended Sept. 30,
Representative Jeff Miller, chairman of the House Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs, wrote in an Aug. 16 letter to VA Secretary
Eric Shinseki. The department also told the panel last year it
may have put aside $20 million for events in 2011, the Florida
Republican said.  The VA’s inspector general is reviewing spending at the two
conferences held at a Marriott International Inc. resort near
Walt Disney World that cost a total of about $5 million. The
expenditures included about $52,000 for a video spoof of the
Oscar-winning movie “Patton,” said Miller, who released a copy
of the video today.  “I question the excessiveness in which taxpayer dollars
are being used to fund multimillion-dollar conferences,” he
said in a statement. Miller said he has requested “all budgets
and materials” for VA conferences over the past three years.  The agency in February 2011 told the House committee that
$20 million was budgeted for national conferences in fiscal
2011, and that $22 million was budgeted for the following year.  ‘Patton’ Spoof  About nine months later, VA Chief Financial Officer W. Todd
Grams said conference expenditures in fiscal year 2011 were “a
little over $100 million,” compared with $92 million in 2009,
the letter said.  “Mr. Secretary, it is essential that we be given factual
information about VA’s conference spending,” Miller wrote in
the letter.  The 15-minute “Patton” spoof posted on YouTube satirizes
the opening scene from the real movie. In the short remake, an
actor portraying George S. Patton, the World War II general,
stands in front of an American flag and salutes.  “At ease,” he says. “Now some of you, I know, are
wondering what someone like me is doing in a place like this
talking to people like you. What I don’t know is why the hell
you’d be surprised.”  The video also include comments from VA employees and
veterans about the department and its human resources efforts.  Inspector General  Later in the video, the actor-general tells viewers he will
see them “at eight sharp.”  “For those of you with no military experience, that’s 8
o’clock. For you ex-Army types, that’s 0800 hours,” he said.
“For you Marines, Mickey’s big hand is on the 12 and his little
hand is on the eight.”  The 1970 movie starred the late George C. Scott as Patton
and won seven Academy Awards, according to the Academy of Motion
Picture Arts and Sciences.  The parody of the film “should never have been produced
and this misuse of taxpayer funds is completely unacceptable,”
Nathan Naylor, deputy assistant secretary for public affairs,
said in an e-mailed statement. “This event took place over a
year ago and we have already adopted new rules that reflect our
continuing commitment to safeguarding taxpayer dollars.”  The inspector general probe into the department’s events
comes almost five months after a report found the  General
Services Administration  spent more than $823,000 for a
conference near  Las Vegas . GSA Administrator Martha Johnson
resigned amid fallout from the scandal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory  in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  