-- Vietnam’s Money Rate Surges Most Since 2010 After Banker Arrest
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-22T11:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/vietnam-s-money-rate-surges-most-since-2010-after-banker-arrest.html
Vietnam ’s overnight  money-market 
rate surged the most since 2010 on concern banks will hoard cash
to meet any increase in customer withdrawals after one of the
founders of Asia Commercial Bank was arrested this week.  State Bank  of Vietnam injected 13 trillion dong ($624
million) into the financial system via its open-market
operations today, the biggest amount lent for a seven-day period
this year. Governor Nguyen Van Binh said yesterday the monetary
authority stands ready to ensure banks have adequate cash after
Nguyen Duc Kien, who helped found the nation’s fourth-biggest
lender by market value, was arrested on Aug. 20 after he
allegedly “conducted business illegally,” according to a
central bank statement.  The overnight interbank deposit  rate  surged 198 basis
points to 5.66 percent, the highest level since June and the
biggest jump since December 2010, according to data from banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on benchmark five-year bonds
rose 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 9.72 percent,
according to a daily fixing rate from banks compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the biggest increase since July 13 and the
highest level in more than two weeks.  “Yields are increasing because of the liquidity
situation,” said Nguyen Tan Thang, fixed-income investment
director at Ho Chi Minh City Securities Joint-Stock Co. “Banks
are not buying, it’s as simple as that.”  Asia Commercial Bank  Asia Commercial Bank borrowed about seven trillion dong
from the central bank in open market operations today to
“calm” depositors, Deputy Chief Executive Officer Nguyen Thanh
Toai said by telephone. Operations at the bank stabilized today
after an increase in withdrawal requests yesterday, he said.  Staff at Asia Commercial Bank’s main branch in Ho Chi Minh
City today handed customers the text of a central bank statement
issued yesterday, which said Kien is no longer involved in the
management of the lender. Depositors who requested early
withdrawal of term deposits were convinced to leave their funds
with the bank, Toai said.  “After we explained the situation, many of these
depositors agreed to leave their money in our bank,” he said.  The dong traded at 20,853 per dollar as of 5:20 p.m. in
Hanoi, compared with 20,845 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The State Bank of Vietnam set its
 reference rate  at 20,828, unchanged since Dec. 26, according to
its website. The currency is allowed to trade up to 1 percent on
either side of the rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  