-- Volcker Restored Fed’s Credibility on Inflation
-- B y   W i l l i a m   L .   S i l b e r
-- 2012-08-22T22:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/volcker-restored-fed-s-credibility-on-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  sounded like  James Bond  during a telephone conference
call with members of the FOMC on Friday, Oct. 5, 1979.  He stressed the confidential nature of the final memorandum
they would be discussing at the emergency meeting the following
day. The increased gyrations in interest rates under the new
procedures could mean millions in profits or losses in markets
throughout the world. Volcker also wanted to avoid leaks about
the meeting itself and told his colleagues to arrive in
Washington as inconspicuously as possible and to stay at
different hotels.  At the beginning of the conference call, Peter Sternlight,
who ran the  New York Fed ’s trading room, reported that a rumor
of Volcker’s resignation was “having a downward effect on the
securities market.”  Volcker knew that denials could be counterproductive, and
he wanted to avoid fanning the speculative fever that had
erupted during the week.  The events of the past seven days had erased any lingering
doubts Volcker had about the need for drastic measures. The
previous Friday, he had boarded an Air Force jet, along with
Treasury Secretary William Miller and Charles Schultze, chairman
of President  Jimmy Carter ’s  Council of Economic Advisers , to
attend a meeting of the  International Monetary Fund  in Belgrade,
 Yugoslavia . They had a stopover in Hamburg the next day to meet
with Chancellor Helmut Schmidt. Volcker took the opportunity to
brief the president’s two top economic aides about his plans.
They were not pleased.  Unproven Links  Schultze, a traditional Keynesian, complained, “We’re not
against raising  interest rates , but the monetarist links are
unproven and inflexible.”  Volcker said, “Rest assured that I will not put monetary
policy on automatic pilot.”  Schultze worried about an exit strategy. “Once you go down
this road, it will be difficult to go back.” Volcker
emphasized, “Let’s take one step at a time. This is an
opportunity we cannot pass up.”  Volcker had checked the foreign-exchange market before
boarding the plane and reported that the dollar had fallen to
1.74 marks, capping a 4 percent decline since the Sept. 18
discount-rate debacle. Schultze considered the dollar a
sideshow, but Volcker knew that the U.S. currency would take
center stage in the meeting with Schmidt.  The West German chancellor did not disappoint. At a lunch
for Volcker, Miller and Schultze, and the head of the German
central bank, Otmar Emminger, Schmidt said, “The world needs
stability much more than anything else.”  He was repeating a message Volcker had heard from him in
February 1973, when the dollar was worth 3 marks. Now Schmidt
had to be content with a more modest objective, one that
reflected America’s diminished status: “I would like to get
back into a world in which the dollar would be 2 marks and
stable.”  Schmidt’s lecture cheered Volcker but irritated Schultze. A
news conference scheduled at the end of the four-hour meeting
was canceled. A joint press release stated that exchange-rate
stability “and a strong dollar are in the interests of both
countries.”  A very public lecture by former Fed Chairman Arthur Burns
in Belgrade saddened Volcker as much as Schmidt’s private sermon
had pleased him. On Sept. 30, as a prelude to the gathering of
the world’s central bankers and finance ministers for the IMF
meetings, Burns delivered the annual Per Jacobsson lecture,
titled “The Anguish of Central Banking.”  Political Pressure  Burns said  the Fed had been unable to control inflation
because political pressures prevented the central bank from
“frustrating the will of Congress to which it was responsible -
- a Congress that was intent on providing additional services to
the electorate.”  Volcker knew that government  deficits  made life difficult
for the central bank, forcing the Fed chairman to tighten
interest rates to painful levels to restrain private spending.
But blaming the inflation of the 1970s on government deficits
ignored the Fed’s timidity under Burns’s leadership.  The Wall Street Journal wrote that Burns had made clear
“that given the political and economic forces feeding inflation
in the industrial nations ‘it is illusory to expect central
banks to put an end’ to the wage price spiral by themselves.”  The reaction in the markets suggested that Burns had
irritated the speculators as well as the central bankers. The
day after the speech, gold rose to $414.75 an ounce, a jump of 4
percent from the previous close. The speculative burst persuaded
Volcker to cut short his stay in Belgrade and return to
 Washington  to complete work on the Axilrod-Sternlight
memorandum.  Volcker’s exit the following day from Belgrade created more
confusion. In  London , gold hit a record $442 an ounce, up more
than 6 percent.  The Wall Street Journal reported that the gold spike was
set off by Volcker’s early departure from the IMF meetings. The
buying spree was fed by rumors that “South American central
banks were dumping their dollar reserves” as were Arab oil-
producing countries. Speculation that Volcker’s departure meant
that “a new dollar-defense program would be initiated”
triggered the subsequent sales of the precious metal.  The speculative gyrations persuaded Volcker to meet Oct. 4
with members of the Board of Governors. It was the day before
the conference call inviting the entire membership of the FOMC
to their clandestine gathering, and he wanted to build a
consensus.  Commodities Run  The  meeting  identified “speculative activity in the gold
market which appeared to be spilling over into other commodity
markets.” Charles Partee, one of the dissenting board members
in September, said he was alarmed because the gold-buying frenzy
was spreading to copper, zinc and lead. “It leaves one with the
thought that because of a run from currency -- a desire to get
into goods and out of money -- we might have now a new
development in our economic experience,” he said.  The touch of panic pleased Volcker. At the FOMC meeting the
next day, he said the market “is ready to crack open, depending
upon what decisions they see coming out of here.”  He presented two possibilities. The first involved
traditional Fed actions such as a discount-rate move, an
increase in the federal funds rate or a change in  reserve
requirements . The second was to adopt the transformation of Fed
operations outlined in the memo, a focus on achieving a money-
supply target “recognizing that would require a wider range for
the federal funds rate.”  Volcker added that there were advantages and disadvantages
to both approaches, but by “changing operating techniques” the
Fed “might actually get more bang for the buck.” The chairman
said he was ready to go “whichever way the consensus wants to
go as long as the program is strong,” with the understanding
that “we are not locked into it indefinitely.”  He knew he had disappointed the monetarists on the FOMC
hoping for a permanent conversion to their doctrine, but they
weren’t the ones who worried him. Lawrence Roos, president of
the St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank, a monetarist stronghold, had
been waiting so long for a trial run that he would vote in favor
of anything with a monetarist fragrance.  The Keynesians were cause for greater concern. Volcker
wanted to avoid dissents that would damage the credibility of
the new procedures. He worried about Frank Morris, who had
opposed his call to arms earlier in the year because of a weak
economic outlook, and had accused the chairman of sacrificing
the domestic economy to promote the dollar internationally.  Volcker was relieved when Morris spoke: “Despite my view
that the recession is going to be sharp, I think we are in a
situation where we have to be willing to do something dramatic
today.”  Satanic Influence  Volcker thought that Henry Wallich, a former Yale economics
professor, might buck the consensus. He had disparaged the
monetarist links between money and economic activity and had
warned Volcker away from its satanic influence. Wallich said:  “The main argument in favor of the reserve strategy is
that it allows us to take stronger action than we probably could
by the other technique.” He warned, however, that “there is
that risk of  interest rate  uncertainty involved in the new
strategy. We would have to guard against interest rates going in
the wrong direction.”  Wallich had struck a nerve in Volcker that would remain
exposed for years to come. The Fed chairman would be accused of
pushing the new program as political cover for dramatically
higher interest rates. He denied the premise during the FOMC
meeting. “I’m not sure it’s self evident that in interest rate
terms the new technique is stronger.”  Volcker prevailed. A press conference Saturday evening,
Oct. 6, 1979, drew more than 50 reporters, many still wearing
their weekend golf shirts. The unusual timing on a Columbus Day
holiday weekend made the event feel like an emergency briefing
by the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. But Volcker wanted
to avoid a delay that would risk the leak of sensitive
information to speculators.  The head of the CBS Washington bureau had asked the Fed’s
public-relations chief whether to send his only TV crew, which
was covering a papal visit to Washington. The spokesman answered
that the newsman would “remember the press conference long
after the Pope had left town.”  The news conference and press release highlighted the
FOMC’s decision to concentrate on controlling the level of bank
reserves and permitting greater variability in short-term
interest rates. It also announced the decision to increase the
discount rate by a full percentage point, from 11 percent to 12
percent, and the introduction of a special reserve requirement
on bank borrowings that had eluded Fed control.  Volcker had managed to forge a monetary-policy sledgehammer
without dissents. He hoped that the credibility conferred by the
new monetary procedures would produce two different interest-
rate effects. Federal Reserve operations dominate the overnight
interest rate on loans of reserves between banks, but
inflationary expectations dominate longer-term interest rates.
The Fed chairman expected the new procedures to increase the
volatility of the federal funds rate but reduce the interest
rate on long-term bonds. He would be disappointed.  (William L. Silber is Marcus Nadler professor of finance
and economics and director of the L. Glucksman Institute for
Research in Securities Markets at  New York  University’s Stern
School of Business. This is the last of three excerpts from his
new book, “Volcker: The Triumph of Persistence,” which will be
published Sept. 4 by Bloomsbury Press, and is on the long list
for the 2012 Financial Times and Goldman Sachs Business Book of
the Year Award. The opinions expressed are his own. Read  Part 1 
and  Part 2 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why we still need  affirmative
action  and on why the Bundesbank should  put up or shut up ;
 Caroline Baum  on the free market not working for  health care ;
 Susan Crawford  on the consequences of the  Apple-Samsung  patent
case;  Ezra Klein  on  Romney’s vaporous Medicare  promise; Jonathan
Mahler on  football, concussions and ESPN ; Will Wilkinson on how
 Paul Ryan  can be a  Randist and a Catholic .  To contact the writer of this article:
William L. Silber at  wsilber@stern.nyu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  