-- VW Lightens Golf by 100 Kilos With Method Spanning Lineup
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W u e s t n e r
-- 2012-08-22T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/vw-lightens-golf-by-100-kilos-with-technology-spanning-40-models.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  will shave as much as
100 kilograms (220 pounds) from the weight of its updated Golf
model by using stronger steel to minimize the metal content,
delivering a 23 percent reduction in fuel consumption.  The new materials and production processes, part of a
modular manufacturing system, will be extended to more than 40
small and mid-sized models, or about 3.5 million cars, VW said
yesterday in a briefing at its base in Wolfsburg,  Germany .  Europe ’s biggest carmaker expects the shared architecture
to cut production costs by 20 percent, manufacturing time by 30
percent and one-time expenses by 20 percent. The savings will
help finance upgrades of in-car entertainment systems and the
development of new generations of VW autos.  A revised version of VW’s flagship Golf is scheduled to be
unveiled on Sept. 4 as the company seeks to gain market share
and overtake  Japan ’s  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Detroit-based
 General Motors Co. (GM)  to become world No. 1 in sales by 2018.  “The Golf has a preeminent role at Volkswagen because of
its high production volumes, the number of employees behind it,
and because the car is the face of VW,” Ulrich Hackenberg, the
company’s brand development chief, said at the briefing.  Volkswagen’s strategy favors the use of strengthened steel
to reduce overall weight as a cheaper alternative to materials
such as aluminum or carbon fiber, as used by  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW)  for its new electric-vehicle range.  Reduced fuel consumption will also lower VW’s carbon
dioxide emissions. The new Golf will emit 13.9 percent less CO2
per car, equal to about 119,000 metric tons in European markets,
it said, aiding compliance with tougher environmental rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wuestner in Berlin at 
 cwuestner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  