-- West African Cocoa Areas’ Rainfall Seen Improving Crop Prospects
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-08-22T17:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/west-african-cocoa-areas-rainfall-seen-improving-crop-prospects.html
Cocoa-growing areas in  Ivory Coast 
and Ghana, the world’s largest producers, will get more rain in
the next two to three weeks, improving prospects for the
development of the next crop, according to  Marcus Weather .  Weekly rainfall in the period will be about 20 millimeters
to 30 millimeters, or 60 percent to 80 percent of the normal
levels, said Kevin Marcus, founder of the weather consulting
company in Passaic,  New Jersey . The next cocoa crop starts in
October and dryness in July and earlier this month threatened
development in some growing regions in both countries.  The Ivorian southwestern Soubre region, which produces
about 300,000 metric tons a year, got below-average rains in the
first 10 days of August, data from the National Meteorological
Service showed.  Ghana ’s western region, the biggest growing
area, got 4.5 millimeters in the three towns monitored from Aug.
1 to Aug. 10, according to data from the Ghana Meteorological
Agency. That compares with 35.4 millimeters a year earlier.  “In the past 24 hours, there have been some showers
falling over Ivory Coast and Ghana,” Marcus said by phone
today. “The outlook is still for below-average rainfall, but
with a gradual increase in rain activity over the next two to
three weeks.”  West Africa usually has dry weather in July and August,
according to Marcus. Dry conditions started earlier than usual
this year in Ivory Coast’s southwest, he said. The outlook for
the 2012-13 cocoa crops will depend on rainfall levels next
month and in October, with a “significant decline” being
prevented if rains return, he said.  Crop Development  The next 30 days will be important for crop development,
 Shawn Hackett , president of Hackett Financial Advisors Inc. said
in a report this week. Ivory Coast and Ghana accounted for 69
percent of the global supplies last season, according to the
London-based International Cocoa Organization.  Cocoa for December delivery slid 1.6 percent to 1,584
pounds ($2,502) a ton by the close on NYSE Liffe in London. The
beans dropped on speculation investors could pull out of the
market as dry weather in top growing region West Africa may not
have been enough to damage next season’s crop. There is talk of
“better pod counts” in West Africa, Drew Geraghty, a broker at
ICAP Futures LLC in  Jersey City , New Jersey, said in a report e-
mailed yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 