-- West Nile Virus Kills 41 People in Biggest U.S. Outbreak
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   R o m a i n e   B o s t i c k
-- 2012-08-22T20:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/west-nile-virus-kills-41-people-in-biggest-u-s-outbreak.html
West Nile virus has killed 41 people
in the U.S. and infected 1,118 in the biggest outbreak of the
mosquito-borne disease since it was first confirmed in the
country 13 years ago.  Through Aug. 21, the number of West Nile cases had
increased 55 percent over last year’s total, the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention’s Lyle Petersen said today on a
conference call with reporters. While the illnesses have been
reported in 47 states, most of the cases have been concentrated
in five -- Texas,  Mississippi ,  Louisiana ,  South Dakota  and
 Oklahoma  -- with more than half in Texas alone.  Spread by mosquito bites, West Nile can cause symptoms
ranging from fever, headaches and rashes to coma, tremors and
paralysis in the rarest cases. While it’s unclear why more cases
have occurred, hotter-than-normal weather across the U.S. may
have contributed by improving breeding conditions for mosquitos,
Petersen said. Northern states are usually affected after
southern ones, he said on the call.  “Often times West Nile virus is a very local disease,”
said Petersen, director of the Atlanta-based CDC’s Division of
Vector-Borne Infectious Diseases. The extent of an outbreak
“has a lot to do with the local ecology of that area.”  Severe Cases  The most dangerous cases, called neuroinvasive because of
the resulting inflammation in or around the brain and spinal
cord, total 629 nationwide, CDC officials said on the call. Only
about 1 in 150 people will develop the most severe symptoms and
4 of 5 suffer no effects from an infection, according to the
agency’s  website .  Texas  has accounted for 537 human infections this year.
Eleven West Nile deaths have been recorded in  Dallas  County, the
state’s health commissioner,  David Lakey , said on the CDC’s
conference call.  Aerial pesticide spraying has begun in Dallas to kill
mosquitos, Lakey said. CDC officials said they couldn’t say what
other states are doing, as they don’t track local efforts.  Officials in Louisiana, South Dakota and  Michigan , among
other states, are gearing up to spray, a step they take every
year, said Joe Carlson, an entomologist with the  American
Mosquito Control Association . The  Mount Laurel , New Jersey-based
nonprofit represents mosquito control and public health
officials in the U.S. and abroad.  Mild weather during the U.S. winter this year and a rainy
spring probably boosted the mosquito population and added to the
outbreak, Carlson said. Budget cuts may have played a role as
well, as many agencies reduced surveillance and public education
efforts, he said.  “This is a relatively recent epidemiological phenomenon,”
Carlson said. “It’s only been around in this country for 13
years, so there’s a lot we don’t know about this virus, about
how it transmits, how it overwinters, and so on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Romaine Bostick in Washington at 
 rbostick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  