-- Wet Seal Investor Pushing for Sale Names Board Candidates
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-09-21T19:51:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/wet-seal-investor-pushing-for-sale-names-board-candidates.html
(Corrects Winterstern’s title in 10th paragraph of story
first published Aug. 22.)  Wet Seal Inc. (WTSLA)  investor Clinton Group
Inc., which is calling for a sale of the women’s apparel chain,
is seeking to replace board members with a slate of its own
nominees.  Candidates for the board include former retail executives
Raphael Benaroya, Dorrit Bern, Mindy Meads, and John Mills, as
well as investment banker Lynda Davey, according to a statement
today from Clinton Group. The New York-based firm, which owns
more than 5 percent of Wet Seal, has been pushing for a sale of
the retailer amid losses and declining sales.  Wet Seal’s board, led by Chairman Harold Kahn, adopted an
anti-takeover defense, or poison pill, yesterday as it announced
a quarterly loss and a turnaround plan. It also hired Guggenheim
Securities LLC and Peter J. Solomon Co. to perform a strategic
review of the company to maximize  shareholder value .  “This board has failed shareholders,” Joseph De Perio,
senior portfolio manager at the Clinton Group, said in today’s
statement. “After years of strategy shifts, personnel changes
and financial and operational mismanagement, it is time for
shareholders to put in place a board that will work feverishly
to fix the damage.”  Shares of the  Foothill Ranch , California-based retailer
 declined  8.8 percent to $2.79 at the close in New York. The
stock has declined 14 percent this year.  Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for Wet Seal, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  The retailer fired CEO Susan McGalla July 23, after a year
and a half in the role, amid declining sales. On the same day,
Clinton called for a sale after sending a letter to the board in
June criticizing the performance of McGalla and the company.  Proposed Candidates  Among Clinton’s proposed candidates, Meads was previously
co-CEO of  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO)  and Mills was chief operating officer
of the teen retailer. Bern served as chairman and CEO of
Charming Shoppes Inc.  The action will be by written consent, which needs
shareholder approval for its slate of candidates by submitting
votes. Today’s proposed measure doesn’t require a shareholder
meeting.  Current board members include Kahn, the former CEO of
apparel retailer Steve and Barry’s, lawyer Sidney Horn, Henry Winterstern, a managing director at investment firm Fortress
Investment Group, Jonathan Duskin, CEO of hedge fund Macellum
Capital Partners LLC, and Kenneth Reiss, a former partner at
accounting firm Ernst & Young.  ‘Fundamental Disaster’   “In the wake of the recent fundamental disaster,
shareholders should support the call for a new board,” Jeff Van Sinderen, an analyst for B Riley & Co. in  Los Angeles , wrote in
a note to clients before the statement. This is one of the few
ways to “salvage shareholder value.” Van Sinderen has a buy
rating on the shares.  Wet Seal, which operates 550 stores in the U.S. and  Puerto
Rico , has posted four  straight quarterly declines  in same-store
sales, a key measure of a retailer’s growth, as it loses ground
to larger rivals such as  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ’s H&M and Forever
21 in the so-called ’fast fashion’ category.  The retailer had a net loss, its second consecutive, of
$12.4 million in the quarter ended July 28. That marked the
biggest loss since 2007. Same-store sales sank 11 percent and
may fall as much as 18 percent this quarter.  After receiving Clinton’s first letter, the board in early
July began a review of its capital plan, including the use of
cash and operating performance. It then fired McGalla a few
weeks later.  Fast-Fashion Roots  That plan will improve results by returning to its fast
fashion roots by identifying trends and buying from suppliers as
quickly as possible to speed up time to market, Kahn said
yesterday on a conference call with analysts. Under McGalla, the
company began designing its own apparel, which slowed the time
it took products to reach stores and alienated customers, he
said.  The retailer expects results to start improving in November
when most of its new merchandise will be in stores. Until then,
it will be clearing old clothes with discounts that will
continue to hurt profit margins, Kahn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  