-- Why Carmakers Always Insisted on Male Crash-Test Dummies
-- B y   L e e   J a r e d   V i n s e l
-- 2012-08-22T21:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/why-carmakers-always-insisted-on-male-crash-test-dummies.html
Beginning with 2011 model-year
vehicles, federal regulators have required automakers to
use petite female crash dummies in frontal automotive crash
tests.  Several news outlets have picked this story up. Yet
they haven’t recognized that it’s part of a longer struggle
in business-government relations -- and the product of a
long-held cultural resistance to considering gender
differences in design.  Safety advocates and automakers have tussled for
almost 50 years over which human forms to consider in
safety standards. Throughout the 1950s and early ’60s, a
new safety movement in the U.S. -- made up of consumer
advocates, epidemiologists, engineers and others -- argued
that  government regulation  should focus on redesigning
cars, not just training and policing drivers.  The most famous of these advocates was  Ralph Nader ,
whose 1965 book, “Unsafe at Any Speed,” did a great deal to
focus federal attention on the issue. The efforts of the
safety movement eventually culminated in the enactment of
the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966,
which created the first nationwide automotive safety
standards.  The enactment of the law was only the first step,
however. Regulators had to get proposed safety standards
through the hurdles of federal rulemaking procedures, which
allow for public comment and revision. The auto companies
fought the rules at each step.  Second Collision  One rule they resisted fiercely was Standard 201,
known as “Interior Occupant Protection.” Automakers found
this standard galling because, of all the new rules, it
most fully embodied a philosophy that Nader and other
safety advocates embraced called the “second collision.”
The advocates argued that  drivers and passengers  weren’t
injured in the first collision between the car and, say, a
tree. Rather, they were hurt during the second collision
when their bodies struck the interior of the vehicle.
Therefore, the advocates’ goal was to make the interior of
the car safer, especially by padding certain key surfaces.  Although the automakers didn’t disagree with the
theory, they vociferously opposed the design changes
advocates believed should follow.  Complying with Standard 201 required a process like
this: An anthropomorphic mannequin, or dummy, was placed in
a car. Those conducting the tests would bend the dummy
forward and identify where its head might strike the
interior of the vehicle. Next, the testers would remove
materials that the head might hit, such as the dashboard,
from the car, and mount them on a wall. Then, they would
use a large pendulum to slam a “head form” into the
material. Standard 201 limited the number of G-forces that
the head form could experience during the collision.  The automakers disliked many things about Standard
201, including that it required dummies of two different
sizes. The two dummies were meant to encapsulate the wide
variety of human forms. In an accident, a very tall
person’s head would strike different surfaces than a short
person’s head would. The dummies were to represent a 95th
percentile male (that is, only 5 percent of the male
population would be larger than the dummy) and a 5th
percentile female (only 5 percent of the female population
would be smaller). The 95th percentile specimen had been
around since the 1949 creation of Sierra Sam, the first
crash-test dummy, which was developed under a contract with
the  Air Force .  Push-Back  But the automakers pushed back strongly on the need to
create a 5th percentile female dummy. No such dummy
existed, the industry argued. It would take too long to
develop one, and the payoff would be unclear. Although
marketers had begun to account for the tastes of women as
potential consumers well before the 1960s, many automakers
claimed that considering women’s health in engineering was
too radical.  Federal regulators were beaten back during the
revision of Standard 201 in 1967. They lost out on many
criteria and rules that embodied the philosophy of the
second  collision , and Standard 201 swung strongly in the
industry’s favor. One of the few places that regulators won
out, however, was the different-sized dummies. The 95th
percentile male and 5th percentile female dummies became
part of the federal code. The automakers would have to
account for women in engineering the car.  Yet battles can be un-won. Regulators may have
succeeded in getting female dummies into Standard 201, but
such dummies would soon fall by the wayside.  In 1973, “crash-test dummies” became a mandated part
of safety standards for the first time. These were the
devices we now think of when we hear the term: mannequins
belted into test cars that are crashed into various
objects. These dummies were used in frontal crash tests,
not just for identifying potential impact points. The
mandated dummy, known as  Hybrid II , was a 50th percentile
male -- in other words, the average American guy. Perhaps
because the dummy was so complex and costly, regulators and
automakers moved from using two extreme sizes to using one
model.  Women’s Safety  But a female dummy didn’t become a mandatory part of
frontal crash tests until last year. For all this time, the
average American guy stood for us all.  That may have had a substantial impact on women’s  auto
safety . If airbags are designed for the average male, they
will strike most men in the upper chest, creating a cushion
for their bodies and heads. Yet small women might hit the
airbag chin first, snapping their heads back, potentially
leading to serious neck and spinal injuries.  In  some cases , according to tests with female
mannequins, small women were almost three times as likely
as their average male counterparts to be seriously injured
or killed. A study of actual crashes by the University of
Virginia’s  Center for Applied Biomechanics  found that women
wearing seatbelts were 47 percent more likely to be
seriously injured than males in similar accidents.  Time and again, we are reminded that women still
struggle to receive equal pay and treatment in the work
place. Women haven’t received equal treatment in the design
of the cars they drive, either -- and it may have had
deadly results.  (Lee Jared Vinsel is an assistant professor of science
and technology studies at the Stevens Institute of
Technology and the author of “Governing the American
Machine: Cars, Risks, and Regulations.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Lee Jared Vinsel at
 lee.vinsel@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 