-- World’s Soundest Banks See Lower Profit: Corporate Canada
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-08-22T20:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/world-s-soundest-banks-see-lower-profit-corporate-canada.html
Canada ’s banks, the most stable in
the world, will probably post the lowest profit growth in two
quarters as  consumer lending  eases and spending subsides ahead
of a potential housing slowdown.  Profit before one-time items among Canada’s six main banks,
led by  Bank of Nova Scotia , rose an average of 6 percent in the
period ended July 31,  Mario Mendonca , an analyst at Canaccord
Genuity in Toronto, said in a note dated Aug. 13. That’s down
from 9 percent in the previous quarter, Mendonca said.  “The current macro environment is less than fertile ground
for bank profit growth,”  Robert Sedran , an analyst at  CIBC (CM) 
World Markets in Toronto, wrote in an Aug. 13 note, citing
concerns about the housing market and signs of “fatigue” among
Canadian consumers.  Scotiabank and  Bank of Montreal , respectively Canada’s
third- and fourth-largest banks by assets, are the first banks
to report third-quarter results on Aug. 28.  The country’s banks, ranked the world’s soundest by the
 World Economic Forum,  will probably report consumer lending
eased, while investment bank fees are expected to be higher than
a year ago, Mendonca said. A slowdown in housing is expected to
put profit growth in the “mid-single digit” range next year,
he said.  Bloomberg Markets magazine in June ranked Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce,  Toronto-Dominion (TD)  Bank,  National Bank of Canada (NA) 
and  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  as the world’s third, fourth, fifth and
sixth strongest banks, respectively.  Credit Cards  Canadian consumers are borrowing less on credit, driven by
a slowdown in credit card use, Sedran said in his note. Concern
about consumer indebtedness led to efforts by the Canadian
government this year to cool Toronto’s overheated condominium
market.  In June, Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  cut the maximum
amortization period for mortgages to 25 years from 30, and
reduced the most homeowners can borrow against the value of
their homes to 80 percent from 85 percent -- moves aimed at
avoiding a collapse similar to one in the U.S. housing market.  “Fears of an outright housing crash will continue to weigh
on investors, given the experience in the  United States  and
across the world where stretched markets did indeed crash,”
Sedran wrote.  Canadian household debt levels could “constrain” earnings
growth for the six main lenders in the second half of 2012,
according to  Fitch Ratings .  Net interest margin -- the difference between what a bank
charges for loans and pays in deposits -- may decline to 2.13
percent for the six main banks in the third quarter from 2.25
percent two years ago, according to Credit Suisse analyst
Gabriel Dechaine.  ‘Steady As She Goes’  “We’re not expecting any blockbuster earnings; more like
steady as she goes,” said Anil Tahiliani, head of North
American equities at Calgary-based McLean & Partners Wealth
Management, which owns shares of Canadian banks. “There’s no
real strong catalyst to take them considerably higher.”  The 10-member S&P/TSX Banks  Index (BKX)  climbed 4.6 percent this
year through yesterday, compared with a 1.4 percent rise for the
benchmark S&P/TSX Composite  Index (STBANKX)  and a 21 percent rise in the
24-member U.S. KBW Banks Index. The Canadian bank index fell 0.7
percent at 4 p.m. in Toronto as the country’s six biggest banks
declined.  Banks are likely to keep trading at lower average levels
than in the past, said Sumit Malhotra, an analyst at Macquarie
Capital Markets in Toronto.  “There are two big-picture issues -- ongoing concern over
the European sovereign debt crisis and the magnitude of slowdown
in the domestic housing market -- that are weighing on both the
valuation accorded to the sector as well as aggregate investor
sentiment towards the stocks,” Malhotra said in a note to
clients yesterday.  Slow Expenses  Curtailing expense growth will become “especially
important” as mortgage growth slows and net interest margins
narrow, Mendonca said. The banks will probably begin announcing
cost-cutting plans to counter future declines in domestic
lending as a result of a cooling housing market, analysts said.  “It’s going to become an increasing portion of the
dialogues coming out of these banks as we move forward,” said
 Tom Lewandowski , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis .
“I think you’ll start to hear a bit about that this quarter and
it will get incrementally louder as we get into 2013.”  Spokesmen at Toronto-Dominion, Scotiabank, Royal Bank and
CIBC declined to comment when contacted by  Bloomberg News 
regarding their third-quarter results.  Toronto-Dominion, the country’s second-biggest lender, has
said it will find ways to slow the pace of expense growth for
the second straight year.  ‘Staff Reductions’  “We have to look at our core expense base and find ways to
create competitive advantage and sustainable reductions,” Chief
Financial Officer Colleen Johnston said last month in an
interview at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York .  Lenders may also look at “modest” staff reductions and
postponing technology expenses as a way to cut costs,
Lewandowski said.  “If you kind of use the U.S. playbook for Canada, they’ll
find themselves in a slower-growth environment,” Lewandowski
said.  Scotiabank will post profit before one-time items of C$1.20
a share, up from C$1.10 a year ago, according to Mendonca. Bank
of Montreal will post profit of C$1.40 a share, compared to a
year-earlier C$1.32.  “In many ways, we’re getting back to what banks should be
like,” said  Ian Nakamoto , director of research at MacDougall,
MacDougall and MacTier Inc. in Toronto, which manages about $4
billion in assets, including bank shares. “They’re not supposed
to be volatile.”  Dividends  Canadian Western Bank (CWB) , the eighth-largest bank, is
scheduled to release third-quarter results on Aug. 29 after
markets close.  Royal Bank of Canada , Toronto-Dominion, CIBC and  National
Bank of Canada  are scheduled to report earnings Aug. 30, while
 Laurentian Bank of Canada  will report on Aug. 31.  Toronto-Dominion and CIBC are also expected to announce
increases to their quarterly dividends, according to Bloomberg
Dividend Projections. Other analysts at Desjardins Securities
and TD Securities said Royal Bank of Canada and Bank of Montreal
may also increase their payout.  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  hasn’t boosted
its dividend since the third quarter of 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  