-- WTO Admits Russia as 156th Member to Cap 18-Year Talks: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-08-22T11:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/wto-admits-russia-as-156th-member-after-two-decades-of-talks-1-.html
Russia became the 156th member of
the  World Trade Organization  after completing almost two decades
of negotiations, bolstering President  Vladimir Putin ’s efforts
to gain greater influence in global affairs.  Putin returned to the Kremlin in May for a third term,
seeking annual growth of about 6 percent to turn the $1.9
trillion economy into one of the world’s five largest by
purchasing power. He is also championing a bigger role for
Russia and other leading emerging-market nations in navigating
the global economy, saying richer countries failed to contain
the debt crisis.  Russia, which will hold the rotating Group of 20
chairmanship next year, was the largest economy outside the WTO
and had sought membership since June 1993. Putin wants to win
more favorable trade terms for Russian companies, harnessing the
nation’s potential by attracting capital and diversifying the
economy of the world’s biggest energy exporter.  “Russia continues to play an active role as a first-tier
nation,” Vladimir Pantyushin, chief economist at Barclays Plc’s
investment-banking unit in Moscow, said by phone. “The G20
discusses a lot of problems related to foreign trade and
cooperation, so being the chairmanship without WTO membership
would have been damaging for Russia.”  Russia’s entry into the organization, which marks the
biggest step in global trade liberalization since  China  joined a
decade ago, will add about $162 billion each year to economic
output over the long term by improving  market access  and luring
foreign investment, the  World Bank  said in March. WTO members
carry out 97 percent of global trade, according to the
Washington-based lender.  Luring Investment  “The argument that investors made was that Russian shares
were valued lower than the other BRIC countries because Russia
was not a member of the WTO,” Marcus Svedberg, chief economist
at Stockholm-based East Capital, said by e-mail. “That argument
will now disappear and membership will probably increase foreign
direct investments in the country.”  The 30-stock  Micex Index (MOSBIRZ)  slumped 0.8 percent to 1,443.50 by
3:43 p.m. Russia’s benchmark gauge trades at 3.5 times estimated
earnings, having added 2.9 percent this year. That compares with
a multiple of 9.5 for companies in the  MSCI Emerging Market
Index (MXEF) , which has added 5.8 percent this year. Russian equities
have the cheapest valuations based on estimated earnings among
21  emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg.  Russia may lose 188 billion rubles ($5.9 billion) next year
and 257 billion rubles in 2014 as a result of lower  import
duties , Economy Minister Andrei Belousov told lawmakers before
the July 10 vote to ratify the accession. The figure may reach
300 billion rubles by 2015 as the average weighted duty level
drops to 6 percent from about 9.5 percent, he said.  Little Transition  “The Russian Federation has committed to fully apply all
WTO provisions, with recourse to very few transitional
periods,” the WTO said on its website.  Among concessions  Russia  won in its WTO talks was the right
to channel as much as $9 billion a year into agricultural
subsidies during a transition period, up from more than $5
billion at present, according to Belousov.  “Today’s WTO accession is a major step for Russia’s
further integration into the world economy,” European Union
Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht said in an e-mailed  statement .
“It will facilitate investment and trade, help to accelerate
the modernization of the Russian economy and offer plenty of
business opportunities for both Russian and European
companies.”  Russia was joined by the Pacific island of  Vanuatu , which
became the organization’s 157th member, according to the WTO.  ‘Long Journey’  “It has been a long journey for both countries and they
will undoubtedly strengthen the multilateral trading system,”
WTO Director-General  Pascal Lamy  said in a  statement  published
on the Geneva-based arbiter’s website today.  The  U.S. Congress  will probably repeal Cold War-era trade
restrictions on Russia within days, Lamy said yesterday in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Last Word.”  U.S. companies including  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
 General Electric Co. (GE)  have urged lawmakers to repeal the curbs
set down in a 1974 amendment called Jackson-Vanik that barred
favorable trade status with the Soviet Union because it wouldn’t
allow Jewish citizens to emigrate. Retaining Jackson-Vanik will
give overseas competitors an edge over U.S. businesses when
Russia, the world’s ninth-largest economy in dollar terms
according to the World Bank, joins the WTO.  Without permanent normal trade relations, the U.S. won’t be
able to use the WTO’s dispute-settlement body to settle trade
spats with Russia, according to the Coalition for U.S.-Russia
Trade, a Washington-based industry group.  Japanese Deficit  Japan, which accounts for about 3.6 percent of Russian
 trade , had a wider-than-estimated trade deficit in July as
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and a slowdown in China dragged
down exports and nuclear shutdowns boosted energy imports.  The  shortfall  was 517.4 billion yen ($6.5 billion), after a
revised 60.3 billion yen surplus in June, the  Finance Ministry 
said in Tokyo today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of 28 analysts was for a 270 billion yen deficit. Exports
fell 8.1 percent from a year earlier, compared with an estimated
2.9 percent drop. Imports rose 2.1 percent.  Sales of  existin g homes in the U.S. probably climbed in
July from an eight-month low, economists said before a report
today. Purchases rose 3.2 percent to a 4.51 million annual rate,
following a decline in the prior month, according to the median
forecast of 73 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Minutes of the
 Federal Reserve ’s latest meeting are also due today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  