-- Zeroes Cheapest on Record Seen in Reversal of Trend: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-08-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/zeroes-cheapest-on-record-seen-in-reversal-of-trend-muni-credit.html
Municipal zero-coupon securities
that push principal and interest payments out to the 2040s are
the cheapest in 11 years compared with conventional tax-exempt
debt. That may not last.  Zero-coupon bonds are sold at a discount to face value and
pay interest and principal when they mature. Securities maturing
in 30 years offered  1.53 percentage points  of additional yield
last month relative to similarly dated benchmark debt. While
that’s the biggest spread since at least August 2001, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, the gap may narrow if  interest
rates  rise, said Mikhail Foux at Citigroup Inc.  “Their yields are very cheap already, so if rates
increase, their yields may not necessarily increase as much as
coupon bonds,” said Foux, a strategist at the bank in New York.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said he would
keep the central bank’s key lending rate near zero at least
through 2014. The policy has helped states and localities sell
$230.3 billion of long-term fixed-rate debt this year, $90
billion more than 2011, Bloomberg data show. Zero-coupon sales
totaled only $1.2 billion as of Aug. 21, highlighting their
relative scarcity. In 2011, states and localities sold $2.5
billion of the securities, the least since 2001.  Investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal  bond market  are
buying lower-rated tax-exempt debt and longer-dated maturities
to receive additional interest with rates at 45-year lows. High-
yield U.S. municipal mutual funds added about $1.2 billion in
the five weeks through Aug. 15, the most since December 2010,
Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  Declining Taxes  Zero-coupon bonds appeal to issuers such as  Puerto Rico ,
with credit ratings lower than those of any U.S. state, and
school districts in  California  that need to build facilities
even as property tax revenue has declined. Institutional buyers
like the securities for their additional yield, said Jamie Pagliocco, director of bond managers overseeing $30 billion of
municipals at  Fidelity Investments  in Merrimack,  New Hampshire .  “People can be drawn to zero-coupons because of the
additional yield that they provide, even though you’re not
receiving those interest payments every six months like you
would with a coupon bond,” Pagliocco said. “That’s pretty
pervasive for our marketplace because of the low interest-rate
environment that we’re in right now.”  Demand for U.S. Treasuries from investors looking for a
haven from the  European debt crisis  has pushed down yields on
federal and tax-exempt debt. Yields on municipals due in 20
years were 3.61 percent July 26, near the 45-year low of 3.6
percent on Jan. 19, according to a Bond Buyer index.  Quicker Fall  Interest rates on conventional municipal bonds have fallen
faster this year than zero-coupon debt, widening the spread
between the securities, Foux said. Yields on benchmark issues
due in 30 years fell 0.48 percentage point since the start of
2012, more than the 0.02 percentage-point drop on zero-coupon
yields with similar maturity, Bloomberg data show.  A recent zero-coupon bond deal sold in New York priced with
higher absolute yields compared with a similar  New York  coupon
deal. It also was cheaper relative to benchmark municipals.  New York’s Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority on Aug. 3
sold zero-coupon bonds rated AA-, Standard & Poor’s fourth-
highest grade, with debt maturing in 2032 priced to yield 3.7
percent. That was 1.21 percentage point above benchmark munis
with similar maturity, Bloomberg data show.  New York City Transitional Finance Authority on Aug. 9 sold
conventional coupon bonds rated AAA with debt due in 20 years
yielding 2.94 percent, 0.76 percentage point less than the
Triborough Bridge and Tunnel zero-coupon bonds and 0.41
percentage point more than the benchmark index with similar
maturity.  Bond Exchange  Investors are also swapping coupon bonds for zeroes.  Foux recommends selling Puerto Rico general-obligation
coupon bonds, rated Baa1, Moody’s Investors Service’s eighth-
highest grade, and buying the commonwealth’s zero-coupon debt
backed by sales taxes. Moody’s rates the senior sales-tax bonds
Aa3, four grades higher than the island’s general-obligation
securities.  A Puerto Rico general-obligation coupon bond maturing in
July 2041 traded yesterday with an average yield of 4.94
percent. That’s 0.54 percentage point less than a Puerto Rico
Sales Tax Financing Corp. issue with a similar maturity that
traded Aug. 15, the most recent transaction, with an average
yield of 5.48 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Along with the additional yield, investors trade up in
 credit quality , he said.  “In terms of nominal yield, it’s a substantial increase
and you’re moving into a better-quality credit,” Foux said.  Following are pending sales:  NEW YORK CITY INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY and WISCONSIN’S
PUBLIC FINANCE AUTHORITY plan to borrow $315 million of airport-
facilities revenue debt on behalf of Transportation
Infrastructure Properties LLC as soon as today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The New York portion will refinance
debt sold in 2001 that helped finance two air-cargo facilities
at  John F. Kennedy International Airport . Wisconsin’s part will
refund debt sold to build and repair air-cargo facilities
throughout the U.S., according to bond documents. Another $111
million of debt will be sold through private placement.  Standard
& Poor’s  rates the bonds BBB-, its lowest investment grade.
(Updated Aug. 22)  LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY is
set to issue $448 million of sales-tax revenue bonds as soon as
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Proceeds will refund
debt sold in 2003, according to bond documents. Moody’s
Investors Service rates the sale Aa2, its third-highest grade.
(Updated Aug. 22)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  