-- Zhou Signals China Rate Cut Possible After Injecting Cash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-22T10:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/zhou-leaves-door-open-for-china-rate-cut-after-injecting-cash.html
People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said adjustments to interest  rates  and banks’ reserve
requirements are still possible after the central bank stepped
up temporary cash injections this month.  “Use of either tool can’t be ruled out,” Zhou said to
reporters today in Beijing when asked whether the recent
frequent use of reverse-repurchase transactions means the PBOC
will make less use of reserve-ratio and interest-rate tools. He
didn’t elaborate.  The remarks leave the door open for further monetary
stimulus after the PBOC added 220 billion  yuan  ($34.6 billion)
to the banking system via reverse-repurchase agreements
yesterday, tempering speculation the reserve-requirement ratio
will be reduced. China lowered  interest rates  in June and July
for the first time since 2008 and has made three cuts in the
ratio starting in November as economic growth slowed.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last week that easing
inflation allows more room to adjust monetary policy and
positive signs are emerging in the economy, expressing
confidence after July data showed a further slowdown in growth.
State television reported Wen as saying there’s “growing room
for monetary policy operation.”  At the same time, the nation’s slower-than-forecast cuts in
banks’ reserve requirements show authorities are yet to shake
their concern inflation will quicken, three months after Wen
shifted priorities to boosting growth. China has left the
reserve ratio for the biggest banks at 20 percent since mid-May
and signaled it will maintain property-market restrictions to
curb home-price gains.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  