-- ZTE to Sell 4G Smartphone With China Mobile Hong Kong
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-22T08:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/zte-to-sell-first-4g-smartphone-with-china-mobile-in-hong-kong.html
ZTE Corp. (762) ,  China ’s second-largest
maker of phone equipment, will sell its first fourth-generation
handset through  China Mobile Ltd. (941) ’s  Hong Kong  unit as it works
toward a goal of doubling smartphone sales this year.  ZTE will announce plans to sell the Grand X LTE (T82)
through the carrier as early as next week, Cynthia Chan, a
spokeswoman for China Mobile Hong Kong, said by phone yesterday.
Kevin Liu, ZTE’s regional brand director for Asia, didn’t
immediately reply to an e-mailed request for comment.  ZTE, based in Shenzhen, wants to “transform” itself from
a supplier of wireless network gear by focusing more on mobile
devices, Executive Director He Shiyou said in April. It became
the world’s fourth-largest mobile-device seller in the fourth
quarter behind Nokia Oyj, Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple
Inc., and the company’s smartphone sales may double this year as
it gains market share in  Europe ,  North America ,  Brazil  and
 Japan , it said in January.  “The launch of this phone is another step in ZTE’s
expanding smartphone range,” said Lisa Soh, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. The high end device may help
boost ZTE’s profit margins, depending on sales volume, she said.  By 2015, mobile devices will account for 50 percent of
ZTE’s  sales , up from 40 percent this year, He said in April.  The Grand series of devices is intended to be ZTE’s “high-
end flagship offering,” the company said in a June statement.  China Market  ZTE fell 0.2 percent to HK$11.32 at the close in Hong Kong,
paring an earlier decline of as much as 1.6 percent. China
Mobile declined 0.3 percent to close at HK$82.60.  The 4G service lets users download games and videos on
their phones at the fastest speeds available as operators
compete for users in Hong Kong, where the number of mobile
customers is twice the population.  It’s important for ZTE to build a relationship with China
Mobile as the world’s largest phone company by subscribers
prepares to expand its 4G service across China, said Alen Lin,
an analyst at BNP Paribas Securities  Asia  in Hong Kong.  “I view China Mobile’s Hong Kong market as a test bed for
its own 4G service in China, in terms of network operations,
devices and marketing strategy,” Lin said. “It does pave the
way for when China Mobile launches 4G.”  Trial Stage  China Mobile’s state-owned parent company this year will
expand its 4G trial to nine cities, from six last year, and add
20,000 base stations to the 900 it tested last year, the company
said in March. The number of 4G base stations will exceed
200,000 next year, the telecommunications carrier said.  ZTE’s Grand X LTE (T82) phone uses the MSM8960 chip from
Qualcomm Inc. and runs Google Inc.’s Android 4.0 operating
system, according to  ZTE (763) ’s June 19 statement. It has a 1.5
gigahertz dual-core processor and an 8-megapixel main camera,
the company said at the time.  ZTE’s device will compete with China Mobile Hong Kong’s
current 4G  handsets , which include the Samsung Galaxy SII; HTC
Corp.’s One XL; and LG Electronics Inc.’s Optimus True,
according to the carrier’s website.  “The first launch in Hong Kong will be good for ZTE,”
said Cynthia Meng, a Hong Kong-based analyst with Jefferies
Group Inc. “It shows ZTE can do it, and that a meaningful telco
has chosen to cooperate with them, so this is a very good
reference.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  