-- Zynga Spurning Sale Strands Owners at Worst Web Value
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-08-22T20:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-22/zynga-spurning-sale-strands-owners-at-worst-web-value.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) ’s operations are getting
the least credit in public markets among Internet media
companies, and management’s refusal to consider a sale as growth
slows is blocking an avenue for shareholders to recoup losses.  With the stock plunging 70 percent following Zynga’s
December initial public offering, cash and investments represent
73 percent of the company’s market value, the highest proportion
among peers trading for more than $1 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Zynga shares are priced at 1.03 times
sales, the worst valuation in the industry, after posting the
third-biggest slump in the Russell 1000 Index this year.  While Chief Executive Officer  Mark Pincus , who controls
50.15 percent of the  voting rights  for Zynga shares, said in
July that he’ll never consider a sale, Ironfire Capital LLC says
the biggest developer of games for  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social
network may draw the attention of activist shareholders pushing
for changes. The $2.26 billion company, which has  dropped  to
$2.97 a share following second-quarter earnings that missed
analysts’ projections last month, might fetch $7.30 a share in a
takeover, according to Falcon Point Capital LLC. Needham & Co.
says Pincus probably wouldn’t consider an offer below the IPO
price of $10.  “If they have an offer on the table, shareholders who have
lost so much would welcome it,”  Arvind Bhatia , an analyst at
Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in Dallas, said in a telephone
interview. He has the equivalent of a hold rating on the stock,
along with at least 17 other analysts,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show. Only six recommend buying.  Losses Accelerate  “We remain focused on this sector to deliver an engaging
social experience to our players, and to develop and create the
best social gaming products in the industry,” Dani Dudeck, a
spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Zynga, said when asked if
the company would consider a sale.  Today, Zynga shares rose 9.8 percent to $3.26 for the
biggest advance since June 15.  Losses in Zynga shares  accelerated  in July when the company
reported  lower  second-quarter profit than analysts forecast,
saying changes to Facebook’s site made it harder for users to
find its games. Compared with the first three months of 2012,
three of its top games -- “FarmVille,” “CityVille” and
“CastleVille” -- lost at least 20 percent of players,
according to Bhatia, who cited AppData figures.  Zynga also cut its 2012  projection  for bookings, a measure
of sales of virtual goods. The company said earnings excluding
some items will total 4 cents to 9 cents a share this year, down
from a prior range of 23 cents to 29 cents.  COO Resigns  A week after the quarterly  report , people familiar with the
matter said Chief Operating Officer John Schappert was stripped
of his role overseeing game development amid a reorganization
aimed at reviving growth and making more money from mobile
services. Zynga announced his  resignation  on Aug. 8.  “Given the reputation that management has garnered in only
a short time as a public company, shareholders would likely have
more near-term faith in the business if a change in control were
to occur,” Evan Wilson, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities
Inc. in Portland, Oregon, said in a phone interview.  Zynga is suffering  along with  Facebook, which has tumbled
50 percent since its IPO in May. A renewed emphasis on mobile
with games may help Zynga reduce its reliance on Menlo Park,
 California-based Facebook , which accounts for about 80 percent
of quarterly bookings, or the total value of goods sold in its
games.  Takeover Value  The slump in Zynga’s  stock  means its operations represent a
relatively low proportion of its market capitalization. The
company had $1.64 billion in cash as well as short- and long-term investments on June 30. That’s 73 percent of Zynga’s market
value of $2.26 billion at yesterday’s close, the highest among
34 Internet media companies worldwide trading for more than $1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, Zynga may be worth between $4.75 and $7.30 a share
to a buyer, based on the valuation investors are giving game
developers  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  and  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) 
relative to their sales, said  Michael Mahoney , a senior managing
director at Falcon Point in  San Francisco . That implies a
premium of 60 percent to 146 percent from yesterday’s closing
level.  Tom Taulli , who analyzes acquisitions and public
offerings for Los Angeles-based IPOPlaybook.com, said he could
see Zynga fetching $6 a share.  Zynga’s  ownership structure  would be a hurdle to getting a
deal done. Pincus owned shares giving him 50.15 percent voting
rights as of July 23, up from the 36 percent level reported in
the company’s annual report in February. Its equity is split up
into Class A, Class B and Class C shares, with the publicly
traded Class A stock conveying the weakest voting rights.  ‘Natural Causes’  Pincus, who founded the company in 2007, said at a
PandoDaily  event  in July that he’s told investors and employees
that he plans to keep Zynga independent.  “I was upfront with everybody,” he said. “I said, ‘We’re
never going to sell the company. There is no exit.’ I’ve said,
‘My only exit is by natural causes.’” When Pincus, 46, was
asked if he plans to be Zynga’s CEO for the rest of his career,
he said, “That’s what I aspire for.”  Despite the concentration of ownership in the hands of
Pincus and other insiders, activist investors may push for
changes at the company, according to  Eric Jackson , the founder
of Ironfire Capital.  “It wouldn’t surprise me if people started to do that at
Zynga because it’s getting close to the value of cash,” Jackson
said in a phone interview.  Value Questions  Potential buyers may be deterred by the slowdown in Zynga’s
business, Macquarie Group Ltd.’s  Benjamin Schachter  said.  “I don’t think people will approach them right now,”
Schachter, an analyst at Macquarie in New York, said in a phone
interview. “People are questioning the value of the user base
and the business model. People are trying to figure out how
broken the story is.”  The company may still prove alluring to Activision
Blizzard, Electronic Arts,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Sony
Corp. (6758) ,  Sean McGowan , an analyst at Needham, said in an
interview. Asian companies such as  Gree Inc. (3632) , Nexon Co., Sina
Corp. or  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  may also be interested in Zynga,
according to Mike Hickey, a senior analyst at National Alliance
Securities Corp.  Representatives for Electronic Arts, Google and Microsoft
declined to comment on whether their companies are interested in
Zynga. Activision, Gree, Nexon, Sina, Sony and Tencent didn’t
immediately return requests for comment.  Initial Gains  Zynga has an “excellent library of games, great developers
and a good brand in the marketplace,”  Paul Sweeney , an analyst
at Bloomberg Industries, said in an interview. “That would make
them attractive to anyone looking to get into the games
business.”  The company’s stock initially rose following the December
IPO, climbing 47 percent to $14.69 as of March 2. Zynga is now
struggling to convince investors that it can maintain growth.  “I thought even before the IPO, $6 would have been
cheap,” Needham’s McGowan said. “Now, the prospects have
changed. I’ve not seen a story change this quickly -- in 100
days. That’s a very rapid change.”  “I don’t rule out the possibility of somebody being
interested in them, but let’s not forget that Mark Pincus
controls the company,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  