-- BOE Seen Halting Stimulus as Officials Assess Rebound Strength
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-11-03T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-03/boe-seen-halting-stimulus-as-officials-assess-rebound-strength.html
The  Bank of England  will probably
halt its stimulus program next week as the Monetary Policy
Committee assesses whether the economy can maintain growth after
escaping from a recession.  The nine-member MPC will probably leave the target for
 asset purchases  at 375 billion pounds ($602 billion), according
to 35 of 45 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Seven
forecast a 50 billion-pound increase in quantitative easing, and
three expect a 25 billion-pound expansion.  The economy grew 1 percent in the third quarter and the MPC
is gauging the ability of its Funding for Lending Scheme to ease
credit strains and  sustain growth . Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc and Investec Securities are among banks that have abandoned
forecasts for more QE in the past month after policy makers
indicated a reluctance to expand stimulus again.  It’s “more likely than not that the Bank of England will
hold off,”  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global Insight in
London, said in a note. Still, “with the recovery looking
fragile and weak overall,” more QE could be implemented in
early 2013, he said.  While the economy emerged from recession in the third
quarter, recent data have been mixed. Reports this week showed
that a slump in  manufacturing  deepened in October and
construction unexpectedly returned to growth.  The  Confederation of British Industry , the U.K.’s biggest
business lobby, raised its growth forecasts on Nov. 1, while
noting that the outlook remains “challenging.” It sees the
economy stagnating this year and expanding 1.4 percent in 2013.  Weak Growth  After the third-quarter rebound, Bank of England Chief
Economist  Spencer Dale  said there may be a “sharp fall back”
in fourth-quarter gross domestic product. He also predicted a
“period of relatively weak growth over the next couple of
years.”  BOE Deputy Governor  Charles Bean  said this week that
consumers’ and businesses’ concerns on the economic outlook may
undermine the impact of QE. People are less likely to be lured
by low borrowing costs and bring forward spending “when
uncertainty is elevated and when banks and some households are
concentrating on repairing their balance sheets,” he said.  Former central bank official  Charles Goodhart  said in an
interview yesterday that the FLS, which started on Aug. 1 and
aims to give banks access to cheap funding in return for
boosting credit, may be “potentially quite successful.”  All 55 economists in a separate Bloomberg survey say the
MPC will leave its  benchmark interest rate  at a record low of
0.5 percent. The bank will announce its decision at noon in
 London  on Nov. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  