-- Empire State Realty Trust Settles Investors REIT Suit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-11-03T04:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-03/empire-state-realty-trust-settles-investors-reit-suit.html
Empire State Realty Trust Inc., the
company that controls the Empire State Building, said it settled
with investors over its plan to become a real-estate investment
trust and sell shares on the  New York  Stock Exchange.  The company said in a filing yesterday with the Securities
and Exchange Commission that it will pay $55 million as part of
the Sept. 28 class-action settlement, which will need to be
approved by New York State Supreme Court judge.  Empire State Realty Trust said on Feb. 13 that it plans to
raise as much as $1 billion in an initial public offering,
giving investors the opportunity to own a piece of the landmark
102-story  Manhattan  skyscraper. A group of closely held
companies will be consolidated to form the REIT as part of the
IPO, according to regulatory filings.  In March, investors filed five class-action lawsuits in New
York state court, accusing the company and Malkin Holdings LLC,
supervisor of the company that holds title to the tower, of
breaches of fiduciary duty. The company denied the investors’
allegations, according to yesterday’s filing.  Malkin Holdings supervises property partnerships led by
 Peter Malkin  and his son Anthony Malkin. It owns the 2.9
million-square-foot (269,000-square-meter) Empire State Building
in conjunction with the estate of  Leona Helmsley .  If approved, the deal may clear a hurdle in the Malkins’
effort to convert their holdings in the Empire State Building
and 18 other Manhattan and New York-area properties into a REIT.  ‘Overhang’  “You can’t take a company public with that kind of
overhang,” share-sale attorney Boris Dolgonos said in August.
Dolgonos isn’t connected with the Empire State IPO.  A group of beneficiaries, acting separately from the
plaintiffs, have opposed the IPO, saying the terms deprive them
of the secure distributions they have come to expect for
decades, and deprive them of too much of the Empire State
Building’s value. Holders of at least 80 percent of the 3,300
units must approve the terms before the IPO can go forward.  Hugh Burns, a spokesman for Malkin Holdings, didn’t
immediately return a call yesterday after regular business hours
seeking comment on the settlement.  The case is Meyers v.  Empire State Realty Trust Inc. (ESB) ,
650607/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  