-- European Stocks Advance as U.S. Jobs Data Beat Forecasts
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-11-03T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-03/european-stocks-advance-as-u-s-jobs-data-beat-forecasts.html
European stocks  advanced this week as
companies from Royal Dutch Shell Plc to  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
reported earnings that topped estimates, American jobs data beat
forecasts and U.S markets reopened after  Hurricane Sandy  forced
their closure for two days.  UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank, jumped to a 15-month
high after saying it will cut about 10,000 jobs to boost
profitability. Shell, Europe’s biggest oil company, and Deutsche
Bank AG, Germany’s largest lender, advanced more than 3 percent.
 Air France-KLM Group (AF)  and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  surged after
posting earnings that beat analyst estimates.  BG Group Plc (BG/) 
tumbled 18 percent after it said growth next year will be flat.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 1.6 percent to 274.85 this
week. The benchmark completed its fifth monthly rally on
Wednesday and has surged 18 percent from this year’s low on June
4 as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to
defend the euro at all costs and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  announced a third round of quantitative easing.  “The non-farm payroll figures confirm a U.S. private sector
that is printing jobs year-on-year at the same pace as back in
2004-05, which is good.” Peter Garnry, an equity strategist at
Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen wrote in a message. “The job report
was better than expected, which adds to the other good reports
this week, and it will likely carry the momentum for the week
all the way home to show solid gains in stocks across the
board.”  U.S. Hiring  Hiring in the U.S. increased more than forecast in October
as employers looked past slowing global growth and political
gridlock at home.  In the last jobs report before next week’s presidential
election, a net 171,000 workers were added to payrolls after a
148,000 gain in September that was more than first estimated,
Labor Department figures showed Friday in Washington.  Data from the department also showed fewer Americans than
forecast filed first-time claims for  unemployment insurance  last
week. Applications for  jobless benefits  fell 9,000 to 363,000 in
the week ended Oct. 27, the fewest in three weeks, the official
report on Nov. 1 showed. Economists had forecast 370,000. Data
for  New Jersey  and the  District of Columbia  were estimated
because those offices were closed due to Hurricane Sandy, a
spokesman said.  Consumer Confidence  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. climbed in October to the
highest in more than four years. The Conference Board’s  index 
increased to 72.2, the highest since February 2008, from a
revised 68.4 in September, figures from the New York-based
private research group showed Nov. 1. The reading was projected
to rise to 73, according to the median estimate of economists.  Another report on Nov. 1 showed manufacturing in the
world’s largest economy expanded at a faster pace than forecast.
The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index climbed to
51.7 last month from 51.5 in September. A reading of 50 is the
dividing line between expansion and contraction.  China’s manufacturing expanded for the first time in three
months in October as output and new orders climbed. The
Purchasing Managers’ Index climbed to 50.2 last month October
from 49.8 in September, the National Bureau of Statistics and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said Nov. 1.  National benchmark indexes advanced in 15 of 18 western
European markets. Germany’s DAX Index rose 1.8 percent, France’s
CAC 40 climbed 1.7 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 added 1.1
percent.  Greece Pressured  European markets pared gains after euro-area governments
pressed Greece to make deeper spending cuts to keep aid flowing.
With Greece pleading for a 31 billion-euro ($40 billion) aid
payout in November and facing a sixth year of recession in 2013,
euro finance ministers said on a conference call Wednesday that
unfreezing loans for the country required more efforts in Athens
to rein in the  budget deficit  and deregulate the economy.  Greek stocks fell the most in more than five months as
coalition lawmakers squabbled over austerity that a Bundesbank
official warned must be enforced to keep bailout funds flowing,
and the government unveiled debt forecasts falling further
behind its targets.  The country’s benchmark ASE Index dropped 8.3 percent this
week. National Bank of Greece SA, the Mediterranean nation’s
largest lender, slid 25 percent.  Banks Gain  UBS (UBSN)  rose 18 percent, for the biggest gain on the Stoxx 600
this week. Switzerland’s largest bank will cut about 10,000 jobs
and retreat from capital-intensive trading as part of a plan to
save about 3.4 billion Swiss francs ($3.6 billion) in additional
annual costs by the end of 2015.  Deutsche Bank gained 5.8 percent as Germany’s largest
lender said net income climbed to 747 million euros in the three
months through September. That beat all  seven analyst estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg and the 563.9 million-euro average.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  added 3.5 percent even
as Spain’s second-biggest bank said third-quarter profit fell 82
percent as it continued to purge soured real estate assets.  Royal Dutch Shell (RDSA)  rose 3.6 percent. Europe’s biggest oil
company reported third-quarter profit expanded 2.3 percent after
it generated increased earnings from liquefied natural gas.  Net income rose to $7.14 billion from $6.98 billion a year
earlier. Excluding one-time items and inventory changes, profit
was $6.6 billion, beating the $6.3 billion average  estimate  of
13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  BP (BP/)  advanced 3.2 percent after Europe’s second-largest oil
company raised its dividend as third-quarter profit beat
analysts’ estimates. Net income climbed to $5.4 billion from $5
billion a year earlier. It raised the dividend by 12.5 percent
to 9 cents a share.  Airlines Climb  Air France-KLM and Lufthansa surged 16 percent and 13
percent, respectively. Europe’s two biggest airlines posted
earnings that beat analyst estimates as they began to reap the
benefits of moves to eliminate thousands of jobs.  Air France-KLM said third-quarter operating profit jumped
27 percent to 506 million euros, beating analyst estimates of
434 million euros. Lufthansa reported earnings of 648 million,
compared with a 522 million-euro analyst forecast.  A gauge of carmakers on the Stoxx 600 rose 3.8 percent this
week after companies reported U.S. sales for October.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  climbed 6.6 percent as U.S.
sales of the largest manufacturer of luxury cars rose 21
percent, narrowing the lead of Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz in
luxury-auto deliveries this year.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest carmaker, jumped 6 percent.
Sales of Volkswagen’s Audi brand in the U.S. rose 15 percent
last month to 11,708.  Fresenius Medical  A gauge of health-care stocks suffered the biggest weekly
decline of the 19 industry groups in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   Fresenius Medical Care AG slid 9.2 percent after the
world’s biggest provider of  kidney dialysis  reported third-
quarter profit that missed analyst estimates as growth slowed
outside the U.S.  Fresenius Medical Care’s third-quarter earnings before
interest and taxes rose 6 percent to $568 million, missing the
$594 million  estimate  of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  BG Group tumbled 18 percent, the biggest drop since it sold
shares to the public in 1988. The U.K.’s third-largest natural-
gas producer forecast a 3 percent gain in full-year production
growth this year and said 2013 output growth will be flat.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  slid 7 percent as Denmark’s largest lender
unveiled plans to cut 3,000 jobs and sell 7 billion kroner ($1.2
billion) in shares as it seeks to increase its core tier 1
capital ratio to more than 13 percent by the end of next year.  The measures were announced together with Danske’s third-
quarter report, showing net income of 1.31 billion kroner,
compared with a loss of 384 million kroner a year earlier. That
was in line with the average 1.34 billion-krone estimate of 17
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  