-- FBI Granted Access to Suspect in Benghazi Attack, Tunisian Says
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-11-03T01:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-03/fbi-granted-access-to-suspect-in-benghazi-attack-tunisian-says.html
FBI agents are arriving in  Tunisia  to
assist in the interrogation of a Tunisian suspected of
involvement in the deadly attack on a U.S. consulate in
neighboring  Libya , a Tunisian government official said.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  team was en route to
Tunis, the capital, yesterday after a Tunisian magistrate
investigating suspected radical Ali Ani al-Harzi agreed to let
the U.S. provide its “techniques and expertise” for
interrogating terror suspects, Tunisian Secretary of State for
Foreign Affairs Hedi Ben Abbes said in an interview in
Bloomberg’s Washington office.  The decision to accept U.S. involvement eased what
threatened to become a flashpoint between two nations. Two
Republican U.S. senators,  Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  and
 Saxby Chambliss  of  Georgia , had said denying access could damage
relations and might result in an aid cutoff to the North African
state, where the so-called Arab Spring democracy movement began.
The two lawmakers yesterday hailed the decision to allow FBI
access.  Tunisia’s action reflects a broad “decision at the highest
level to engage in full cooperation with the  United States ” in
many areas, Ben Abbes, the No. 2 official at the foreign
ministry and a member of President Moncef Marzouki’s secular
center-left political party, said yesterday.  “Tunisians will never forget the support the United States
expressed at the very beginning of the revolution when other
nations were hesitant,” he said, referring to President  Barack Obama ’s support for the pro-democracy uprising that began in
Tunisia almost two years ago.  Police Gear  Tunisia has also been assured delivery within one to two
weeks of riot gear, other equipment and training assistance for
the Tunisian police forces, said Ben Abbes, who completed two
days of talks with State Department and national security
officials in Washington yesterday.  “We cannot fight against international terrorism alone,”
he said, adding that Tunisian police forces are understaffed and
ill-equipped.  Even so, giving U.S. investigators access to question a
Tunisian citizen on Tunisian soil is a sensitive issue that
touches on questions of sovereignty, said Ben Abbes.  “We were a bit reluctant,” he said, explaining that
Tunisian leaders and the public question whether the U.S. would
permit foreign investigators to interrogate an American citizen
on U.S. soil.  Under the Tunisian legal system, the decision was in the
hands of the investigating judge, not the government or the
minister of justice, and every effort will be made “to
cooperate without making any problems,” Ben Abbes said.  Stopped in Turkey  Al-Harzi, 28, was detained in the Istanbul airport days
after the Sept. 11 attacks on the U.S. consulate and nearby
Central Intelligence Agency base that claimed the lives of U.S.
Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans. Al-Harzi had
arrived in  Turkey  in transit between Benghazi and Syria and has
a suspected history of involvement in extremist causes, Ben
Abbes said in the interview.  Al-Harzi was detained traveling with another man, who was
released for lack of evidence, but whom authorities are still
monitoring, Ben Abbes said.  The  Associated Press  reported on Nov. 1 that Al-Harzi’s
lawyer, Ouled Ali Anwar, said there is no solid evidence against
his client, who he claimed is being used as a “scapegoat to
satisfy the Americans.” Anwar said his client was told he has
been charged with “membership of a terrorist organization,”
punishable by six to 12 years in prison if he is convicted.  Facial Recognition  Ben Abbes said Tunisian authorities had implored the U.S.
ambassador in Tunis weeks ago to share any evidence the U.S. has
against al-Harzi. He confirmed that U.S. officials have said
facial recognition technology identified the suspect as being at
the Benghazi consulate the night of the attack.  A photograph “is not strong enough evidence” to convict
someone, Ben Abbes said, so authorities will need more than
facial recognition.  “Two years ago,” under the authoritarian government of
then-President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, Tunisian security forces
“would’ve put him in prison for ages. Now we can no longer do
this” because the country has become a democracy that respects
rule of law, Ben Abbes said.  Tunisian authorities have photographs of al-Harzi’s brother
participating in the Sept. 14 attack on the U.S. embassy in
Tunis, and authorities believe al-Harzi and his associates are
“freelance terrorists” who travel to different conflicts and
were intending to engage in violent acts in  Syria .  Authorities Unprepared  Ben Abbes said it isn’t clear whether the FBI investigators
would have direct access to question the suspect, or whether
they would work through Tunisian counterparts.  Ben Abbes also expressed deep regret for the attack on the
U.S. embassy and American school in Tunis. He denied that
Tunisian authorities allowed the attack, or that radicals were
enjoying impunity after the fact. About 150 suspects were
arrested, about one-third of whom have been released for lack of
evidence, he said.  Authorities were unprepared for a violent encounter and
didn’t have enough police at the site, since a demonstration two
days earlier against an anti-Muslim video made in the U.S. had
been peaceful, he said.  It’s critical that the U.S. assist Tunisia’s democratically
elected government in every possible way, including security
cooperation, so the nation where the Arab Spring began can stand
as a model for other democratizing nations in the  Middle East ,
Ben Abbes said.  “We have no right to fail,” he said. If the Arab Spring
“fails in Tunisia, it will certainly fail everywhere else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  