-- FEMA Providing Hotel Rooms for People in Shelters Since Sandy
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-11-03T20:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-03/fema-providing-hotel-rooms-for-people-in-shelters-since-sandy.html
The  Federal Emergency Management
Agency  is issuing vouchers for hotel rooms to those stuck in
emergency shelters because of superstorm Sandy and is rushing
fuel to  New York  and New Jersey, agency Administrator  Craig Fugate  said.  FEMA activated a program for temporarily sheltering people
who can’t return to storm-struck homes, Fugate said in a
conference call with reporters today. Those in shelters in New
York and New Jersey are eligible, he said.  “If they can move into a hotel or motel, it’s a little bit
more comfortable for them,” Fugate said, adding that more than
18,000 are in shelters. “This is designed as an intermediate
step,” and those whose homes are uninhabitable will be offered
longer-term housing, he said.  While lights in Manhattan buildings flickered back on and
subways returned to service today, other New York boroughs such
as Staten Island and hard-hit areas in  New Jersey  still suffered
power and fuel shortages. President  Barack Obama  directed the
Defense Department yesterday to buy as much as 22 million
gallons of gasoline and diesel fuel for affected communities,
and Fugate said it’s arriving.  “They’ve already got some of the first fuel deliveries
in,” Fugate said.  More than 122,000 people have applied for federal disaster
help, according to the FEMA administrator, and $107 million in
assistance has been approved so far. He didn’t say how much the
hotel program would cost.  Red Cross  The Red Cross also has 4,200 volunteers working in the
area, with “thousands more” on the way, said Red Cross Senior
Vice President of Disaster Services Charley Shimanski. The
organization is setting up warming shelters in preparation for
another storm expected to bring colder weather.  “Social media is helping us drive our activities,”
Shimanski said, describing a team the  Red Cross  has monitoring
websites such as Twitter.com. “This is really a new and
tremendous resource for the work we’re doing on this very, very
large disaster.”  Obama spent time away from the campaign trail this morning
to meet with emergency officials and members of his Cabinet at
FEMA headquarters in Washington to discuss recovery efforts.  In a campaign appearance in  Ohio  after the meeting, Obama
said the recovery will take “months” and he praised “leaders
of different political parties working together to fix what’s
broken.”  The president is urging his administration to “look around
the corner and see if there are other resources that haven’t
already been summoned to try to bring relief to these
communities that are bearing the aftermath of the very difficult
storm,”  Josh Earnest , a White House spokesman, told reporters
aboard Air Force One today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  