-- KBR Ordered to Pay Troops $85 Million in Chromium Case
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-11-03T17:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-03/kbr-ordered-to-pay-troops-85-million-in-chromium-case.html
KBR Inc. (KBR) , the largest U.S. military
contractor, must pay 12 U.S. soldiers $85 million in noneconomic
and punitive damages for negligently exposing the troops to
toxic chromium dust at a company worksite in  Iraq  in 2003, a
federal court jury in Portland, Oregon, said.  The case was the first to go to trial against Houston-based
KBR over injuries suffered by its employees or by troops
guarding the workers at company sites in Iraq. The company has
previously won favorable rulings that allowed it to avoid trial
in lawsuits by soldiers and employees claiming injuries from the
U.S. war in Iraq beginning in 2003.  “KBR is being held accountable at last for putting profits
above the welfare of the soldiers,” Mike Doyle, the troops’
lawyer, said yesterday in a phone interview. “This trial was
the first time a jury has seen what the company did to soldiers
in the field.”  The trial was a test case over injuries suffered by  Oregon 
national guardsmen who protected KBR workers at Qarmat Ali, an
oil-production facility the company was hired to rehabilitate
after Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein was overthrown in 2003.  “KBR did safe, professional and exceptional work in Iraq
under difficult circumstances,” said John Elolf, a KBR
spokesman. He said the company will appeal the verdict and that
the “law will ultimately provide vindication.”  Indiana Troops  Twenty-two other soldiers in the Oregon case and 130
national guardsmen, mostly from  Indiana , are also suing KBR over
toxic exposure at Qarmat Ali. The Indiana troops’ case is on
hold until the U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans determines
whether their claims are valid against a military contractor
during war time.  Evidence and testimony introduced at the Oregon trial
proved KBR knowingly failed to notify or protect troops from
exposure to chemicals containing carcinogenic hexavalent
chromium that the Iraqis used at the water-treatment facility,
Doyle said.  Jurors yesterday awarded each of the soldiers $850,000 for
noneconomic damages. They awarded $6.25 million to each in
punitive damages after finding KBR acted with “reckless and
outrageous indifference” to their health and safety, according
to the verdict.  The case is Bixby v. KBR Inc., 3:09-cv-00632, U.S. District
Court, District of Oregon ( Portland ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  