-- NAB’s Clyne Urges Patience on Poor Performing U.K. Assets
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-11-04T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-03/nab-s-clyne-urges-patience-on-poor-performing-u-k-assets.html
National  Australia  Bank Ltd. Chief
Executive Officer Cameron Clyne urged a “patient approach”
toward the lender’s poor performing U.K. assets, saying a
turnaround depends on a revival of the British economy.  “The U.K. is clearly a difficult situation,” Clyne told
Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s ‘Inside Business’ program in an
interview broadcast yesterday. “Our shareholders do not want to
see a distressed exit, but in the interim we’ve got a very
difficult economic environment.”  A double-dip recession in the U.K., where  National
Australia Bank (NAB)  has owned  Scotland ’s Clydesdale Bank and the
Yorkshire Bank since 1987, weighed on earnings. The Australian
lender increased its charges for bad and doubtful debts from the
U.K. unit by 335 million pounds ($537 million) and restructured
the division, shifting a 5.6 billion pound commercial real
estate portfolio to the group balance sheet.  National Australia Bank’s net income sank to A$4.08 billion
in the 12 months ended Sept. 30, from A$5.22 billion a year
earlier, the Melbourne-based bank said Oct. 31. That was the
first full-year profit decline since 2009 and missed the lowest
of six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg, which averaged
A$4.83 billion.  “The core franchise, which is the Yorkshire Bank in
Clydesdale, actually made 49 million pounds in the half, so it’s
a profit-making business,” Clyne said. “So the question will
be to what degree can we run the commercial real estate off and
will commercial real estate prices stabilize, and that’s very
much a function of the economy.”  Britain exited recession last quarter with the quickest
expansion in five years, a government report showed last month.
The economy grew 1 percent in the three months through September
from the previous quarter, the fastest pace since 2007.  Loan Growth  Australia’s  private-sector  loan growth has been subdued
over the past year, crimping demand in the retail bank’s core
market even as the country’s central bank attempted to stimulate
the economy by cutting interest rates 1.5 percentage points.  “Despite housing finance perhaps being in decline, we’ve
got one of the most competitive offers out there and we’re
growing share, but we’re growing share in business but in a very
subdued credit growth environment, I mean business credit is at
a 30-year low,” Clyne said. “But it’s very much a function of
the economy and business confidence has been low and
correspondingly demand for business credit has been low.”  Rising Deposits  Australian banks have sought to finance a larger share of
lending from deposits since the global credit freeze, paying
higher rates for the more stable funding. Deposits make up 53
percent of liabilities from about 40 percent in 2008, with
lenders raising less money from bond markets as a consequence,
according to central bank figures.  As a result, the nation’s major lenders have failed to
fully match the Reserve Bank of Australia’s reductions in the
overnight cash-rate target.  National Australia Bank,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  and
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  passed on 20 basis
points of the RBA’s 25 basis point cut last month.  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  cut by 18 basis points. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  “We are still really absorbing an increase in funding
costs and it tends to vary from period to period: at some points
it will be driven more by a spike in the wholesale funding costs
and other times around competition for retail deposits, and I
think there has been more pressure on our funding costs coming
from retail deposits in recent times, wholesale’s been a little
more benign,” Clyne said.  He said there won’t be a “short-term return” to the RBA
cash rate and bank interest rate movements being aligned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  