-- NBA Players’ Union Review Is Almost Over, Treasurer Jones Says
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-11-04T05:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-03/nba-players-union-review-is-almost-done-treasurer-jones-says.html
An independent review of the National
Basketball Players Association’s financial and business
practices is nearly complete, said union treasurer  James Jones ,
a member of the organization’s executive committee.  “It’s at the end,” Jones, who plays for the  Miami Heat ,
said in an interview before his team’s Nov. 2 game at New York’s
Madison Square Garden.  Jones didn’t give a date for completion of the review,
which is being conducted by Theodore V. Wells Jr. and the New
York  law firm  of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton and Garrison.
Lisa Green, a spokeswoman for the firm, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail seeking comment on the review, which will
include a financial audit.  The union retained the firm in April after the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in Manhattan said it was investigating union
practices.  Jones said he spoke with lawyers at the firm “a couple of
months ago.” He said the conversation was “one way,” and
consisted of “general stuff,” but wouldn’t provide specifics
of what was asked.  “There’s no rush to judgment,” he said. “Let’s all wait
until it’s concluded.”  Authorities opened the probe in April after union President
 Derek Fisher  asked for independent reviews of the association’s
finances and business practices.  Fisher had complained to executive committee members about
nepotism at the union, which represents about 450 players.  Union Executive Director  Billy Hunter , who turns 70 in two
days, has a daughter and daughter-in-law on staff at the New
York-based association. Another daughter is special counsel at a
law firm used by the union, and Hunter’s son is a principal at a
financial planning and investment firm that advises the
organization on investments and runs its financial awareness
program for players.  Hunter has said his family members are qualified and, in
most cases, underpaid by market standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  