-- New Jersey Gets More Power Back as Gasoline Lines Stretch
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-11-04T04:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-03/new-jersey-gets-more-power-back-as-gasoline-lines-stretch.html
More New Jersey residents and
businesses got power back as roads reopened, bus routes were
added and Governor Chris Christie urged school districts to let
students return.  “As long as there’s a safe environment, we should move
kids as quickly as possible back to school,” said Christie, 50,
a father of four. “This will be good and return normalcy to
their lives, and even better for their parents.”  About 1.2 million New Jersey customers remain without
electricity, down from a high of 2.7 million after  Hurricane
Sandy  struck the state on Oct. 29, Christie said yesterday. He
said he has met with the leaders of the state’s major utilities
and continues to talk with them daily about restoration efforts.  “Rebuilding will be our next phase, and it will be the
longest phase of the recovery,” Christie said after touring
Little Ferry, which was evacuated along with neighboring
Moonachie after the storm caused the Hackensack River to surge.
The berm that failed to stop the water will be fixed “before
the weekend is over,” Christie told residents.  At the church where Christie spoke, donors dropped off bags
of clothing for those who had been flooded. Sharon Town, 46,
from Little Ferry, an administrative assistant at  New York 
University, brought men’s sweatshirts.  “It’s a lot of our friends,” she said of the victims.
Town said her neighborhood had been pumped out, and they were
grateful.  “The suffering here is just horrible,” she said.  Back to School  Many school districts in New Jersey were closed all last
week because of storm damage. Of 589 districts, 252 will be open
tomorrow, a number that Christie expects will increase.  Senator  Paul Sarlo , a Democrat who also is Wood-Ridge
mayor, said his district will accommodate 100 elementary school
students from Moonachie when classes resume. They’ll have
temporary classrooms in libraries and other spaces, continuing
lessons with their own teachers and classmates, he said.  Sandy’s winds and floods blacked out about two-thirds of
New Jersey and crippled the region’s transit system. It also
flooded fuel terminals, curbed deliveries and left many filling
stations in the dark and unable to run pumps. The death toll in
New Jersey has risen to 23, Christie said.  Gasoline Rationing  Miles-long lines for gasoline were commonplace today, even
after Christie ordered odd-even rationing at the filling
stations that weren’t closed by power outages. Only 30 percent
of stations are operating north of Interstate 195, which runs
through the center of the state, while 95 percent of those south
of that road are open, Christie said.  New Jersey  Transit bus service is 90 percent restored, he
said.  “If you ride NJ Transit buses, certainly by Monday when
you’re getting ready to go to work, your NJ Transit bus service
will be there,” he said.  New Jersey has more than 8,000 utility workers from out of
state helping to restore power, Christie said. He released
 schedules  from the utilities of when communities should have
service.  “I still don’t have power at my home in Mendham, in Morris
County, but my brother lives in the same town,” the governor
said. “He called me down at the emergency center today and said
there was a truck on his street from Ohio Edison.”  Casino Reopens  Atlantic City , the nation’s second-largest gambling market,
reopened casinos Nov. 2. Power remained out in sections of the
city while gas stations struggled to resume normal operations.  “There’s a lot of people that are really suffering here,”
Harold Lane, 57, said in an interview in the basement of his
apartment complex on the Absecon Inlet, where some of the worst
flooding and damage occurred.  Some residents at the complex haven’t had power since Oct.
29, including senior citizens with medical conditions, Lane
said. “I got cirrhosis of the liver and I’m supposed to be on a
strict diet,” he said. “I can’t even cook. I could die.”  Electricity was restored at the city’s upscale Tanger
Outlets mall, where shoppers visited stores like The Children’s
Place, Reebok and Starbucks. Advertisements flashed on a
jumbotron in front of Caesars casino, including one for “Wet
’N’ Wild Wednesdays” and another with the message: “Nice Try
Sandy … But We’re Jersey Strong.”  More than half of the houses in Mantoloking were destroyed,
Christie said.  “Between Bay Head and Island Beach State Park, it will be
some time before it’s safe to walk around there,” Christie
said. “It’s still not safe for people to go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  