-- Staten Islanders Reach Out to Neighbors Coping With Sandy
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-11-03T04:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-03/staten-islanders-reach-out-to-neighbors-coping-with-sandy.html
Cars pulled up at  Staten Island ’s
Tottenville High School yesterday to deliver food, clothes and
blankets to survivors of the floods, blackouts and destruction
wreaked by Sandy’s hurricane-force winds Oct. 29.  “People are giving us everything,” said Cliff Bloom, an
assistant principal. “Then they ask, ‘What else do you need?’
and in an hour, they’re back with it. It’s been fantastic.”  The school in the southern part of the New York borough was
turned into a shelter the night before Sandy hit. It houses 152
evacuees from flooded areas, and quickly became a collection and
distribution point for donated items, Bloom said. “We’ve been
here since Sunday non-stop.”  Islanders occupy one of the hardest-hit areas, suffering
about half the city’s 41 storm-related deaths. In Sandy’s wake,
the Staten Island survivors are banding together to cope with
the privations left by the largest Atlantic tropical system ever
measured. The rest of New York, a city of 8 million, struggled
with routine functions such as getting to work as cleanup crews
pumped out inundated utility and transportation tunnels.  Sandy killed at least 105 people in the U.S. and cut power
to as many as 8.5 million along the East Coast, including much
of lower Manhattan. Waves and floodwaters from the storm left
entire seaside communities in  New Jersey  in ruins, while winds
fanned the flames of a firestorm that destroyed more than 100
homes in the Breezy Point neighborhood of Queens.  Delayed Aid  On Staten Island, some people said they wondered why they
wasn’t more help from rescue workers and cleanup crews before
yesterday. While Red Cross workers and military personnel
provided aid yesterday, residents such as Donel Franco, a 31-
year-old mother of two, said they hadn’t seen them earlier in
the week.  “Nobody’s been here,” Franco said. “We need somewhere to
go until we can go back home, if we can ever. All of our stuff
is covered in mud. I feel so helpless.”  Franco and others said they have relied on friends and
neighbors for donations of clothes, food and blankets. Staten
Island’s restaurants also have been generous, Bloom said at the
high school. The shelter has received as many as 40 donated
pizzas a day, along with fruit baskets, salads, and pallets of
bottled water.  Bloom and others began setting up the shelter Oct. 27 amid
warnings of Sandy’s approach. Some evacuees started arriving the
next night, before the storm arrived Oct. 29.  Stayed Put  Other flood-zone residents didn’t evacuate ahead of time.  Franco said she had just finished cooking dinner the night
of the storm when her basement-level Mayberry Promenade
apartment, in a waterfront area on the island’s eastern edge,
started flooding.  “Water just started pouring in the windows,” Franco said.
Outside, she said, “the water was five feet high.”  Like many  New Yorkers  who weathered  Hurricane Irene  last
year unscathed, Franco said she hadn’t felt she needed to
evacuate, even though her apartment was in a flood zone. She and
her two children, George Jr., 18 months, and Maximus, seven
weeks, were rescued by firefighters. They got to a fence in back
of the apartment, and the Franco family had to wait until a
surge of water began receding before they could escape.  “We ran through two feet of water in the backyard and the
firemen pulled us over the fence,” Franco said. Her husband, a
carpenter, turned back to make sure the door was locked and got
left behind, she said. He waited out the storm at the apartment.  “I was worried my husband was washed away,” she said.  Reunited Family  The rescue workers took Franco and the boys to Tottenville
High, where they were joined by her husband.  The shelter has provided some solace, although Franco said
it has been stressful to sleep on cots with two babies.  “Since I’ve been here, I’ve gotten so much -- diapers and
wipes, new clothes,” she said. “There’s a surprising amount of
people wanting to help out.”  Franco said the most frustrating thing is not knowing what
will happen to her family. Schools are set to reopen Nov. 5, so
the people in the shelter must leave by tomorrow, Franco said.
Yet her apartment is unlivable.  She’s also still bothered by the fear she felt as water
poured through her windows.  In the school, “I almost had a panic attack in the
shower, as the water rose above my ankles,” Franco said. The
trauma and the condition of her apartment has left her torn
about returning, even if they could.  “I almost just want to walk away,” she said.  Celebrating Halloween  Volunteers at the shelter did their best to make evacuees
comfortable, Bloom said. On Halloween, children staying in the
school dressed up and went trick-or-treating inside, as dozens
of people came to help out, he said.  “The show of support from the Staten Island community -- I
can’t put it into words,” Bloom said.  Stacey Reiner, a volunteer from  Manhattan ’s Upper East
Side, came to pitch in after seeing the devastation in
television news reports. A New Yorker for 21 years, she managed
to get an express bus down the East Side to one of the first
ferries over.  “This is like the forgotten island,” said Reiner, who
works for a children’s show production company. “They have no
heat, no electricity, kids are sleeping in cars.”  “I wanted to see what anybody needs,” Reiner said as she
rode a bus past island gas stations anchoring lines of cars down
city blocks and streets with boats from a nearby yacht club
piled on top of one another. “You would hope that someone would
do it for you.”  Elevator’s Prisoner  On the S78 bus, Debra Greene, a 22-year island resident,
said her power had been out since the storm hit. An elderly
neighbor in her South Beach high-rise building had been trapped
in an elevator for two days, she said.  “They say all women carry gum in their purse,” Greene
said. “She had no food, no candy, nothing.”  U.S. Marines came to Greene’s building, where the blackout
stranded other residents on higher floors, she said. Greene’s
husband uses a wheelchair and couldn’t get to the street. She
said she was frustrated by the duration of the outage.  Close to her stop, Greene got a call on her mobile
telephone. “The power’s back on!” she said.  Still, she said she didn’t trust the elevators, and would
walk up six floors to reach her apartment. The one thing she did
plan to use: her freezer, for some Ben & Jerry’s brand banana
ice cream with bits of fudge and walnuts.  “When I get off here I’m going to get me some Chunky
Monkey!” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 