-- Storm-Weary Gamblers Reappear as Atlantic City Reopens
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-11-03T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-03/storm-weary-gamblers-reappear-as-atlantic-city-reopens.html
Todd Parker sat at one of only two
roulette tables open in the almost-empty Borgata Hotel Casino &
Spa in  Atlantic City , putting  Hurricane Sandy  out of his mind as
he tried to add to his three stacks of dollar chips.  “I want to get enough to build a big wall and a moat I can
hide behind,” said Parker, 33, a salesman for AT&T Inc. Since
the storm hit, he had been stuck at home with intermittent
electricity. When he heard that gaming tables were reopening
yesterday, he drove about 50 miles from Lacey Township, New
Jersey, straight to the casino.  Parker was one of a handful of gamblers who returned to
Atlantic City as the nation’s second-largest gambling market
resumed operations after closing for almost a week because of
the storm. Some, like Parker, were eager to escape the tedium of
staying at home without power, while others were looking for a
break from cleanup efforts.  The hurricane that struck  New Jersey  on Oct. 29 battered
oceanfront communities, splintering boardwalks and leveling
vacation homes up and down its 127-mile coastline. At least 22
people died in the Garden State from the storm, part of an
estimated national death toll of at least 105, according to the
 Associated Press .  Sandy, which made landfall near Atlantic City, caused as
much as $50 billion in economic damage nationwide, according to
Eqecat Inc., a provider of catastrophic risk models. For New
Jersey, the storm scored a direct hit on its beach attractions,
the economic engine for a $38 billion-a-year  tourism industry .  Order Lifted  Atlantic City’s 12 casinos were shuttered on Oct. 28 as
Hurricane Sandy approached, part of a mandatory evacuation order
that was lifted yesterday morning by New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie .  Last year, Atlantic City’s gambling industry ranked second
behind  Nevada ’s with $3.3 billion in spending, according to the
American Gaming Association trade group. Casino winnings
declined 4.8 percent to $2.4 billion in the first nine months of
this year, according to the state gaming enforcement division.  Besides the Borgata, owned by MGM Resorts International and
 Boyd Gaming Corp. (BYD) , casinos that reopened for business yesterday
included those operated by  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  and Trump
Entertainment Resorts Inc.  Damage to city casinos was relatively minor, Anthony Rodio,
chief executive officer of Tropicana Entertainment Inc., said in
an Oct. 30 interview on Bloomberg Television. He said it was
early to assess the impact of the storm on casino operators.  “There’s going to be a financial blow,” Rodio said. “But
it’s a one-time occurrence, and I think the investment community
and  Wall Street  understands that.”  ‘Get Ready’  Bill Lloyd, another gambler who returned to the casinos
yesterday heard about Christie’s decision to allow betting to
resume after returning to his home in Ocean City and discovering
that more than a foot of water had flooded his first floor.  “I said to the wife, ‘Get ready, we’re going to the
casino,’” said Lloyd, who owns awning maker Shore Breeze LLC.  Lloyd, 68, said he wasn’t concerned about leaving his home,
which had minimal damage, or about gambling while so many others
struggled through the post-storm clean-up.  “What are you going to do?” Lloyd said. “Mother Nature
owned all that land at one time and any time she wants it back,
she’s going to take it.”  Boardwalk Damaged  About 6,300 people, many from the  barrier islands  between
the Atlantic Ocean and the New Jersey mainland, remained in
state-run emergency shelters. Almost 1.5 million homes and
businesses in New Jersey, or about 37 percent of the state’s
power customers, remained without electricity as of 2 p.m.
yesterday, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  The storm washed parts of Atlantic City’s iconic boardwalk
into nearby streets, and left largely empty a town that normally
has almost 40,000 residents and thousands more tourists.  Michael Corrigan, who lives in Brigantine Beach, a small
town adjacent to Atlantic City, returned home yesterday for the
first time since heeding the mandatory evacuation.  The 31-year-old bartender said he was surprised that the
casinos opened so quickly. Media reports and calls from a friend
who had stayed in Atlantic City during the storm had convinced
him he would return to a ghost town.  “It’s time to get my football bets down,” he said as he
walked into the Borgata.  Birthday Celebration  By early evening yesterday, only a handful of gaming tables
were open and few slot machines were being used. Several dozen
gamblers sat in an area that could normally accommodate
hundreds. At the Golden Nugget, only three people played poker
and a few more surrounded a craps table. A few dozen slot
machine players were scattered amid a forest of hundreds of
machines.  Lauren and Jake Hartkorn were online yesterday trying to
find a place to stay in the Pocono Mountains of  Pennsylvania  to
celebrate Lauren’s 33rd birthday when they heard that Atlantic
City was reopening. They said they were delighted because they
had reservations for a hotel in town and had assumed they would
not be able to keep them.  After playing slots at the Golden Nugget casino for an
hour, they were smiling and laughing. They had been cooped up
without power in their home in Blue Bell, Pennsylvania, with
their two children, age 4 and 1, they said.  “We were going a little stir crazy and now we’re outta
there,” Lauren Hartkorn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  