-- Van Persie Helps Manchester United Beat Former Club Arsenal
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-03T19:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-03/van-persie-helps-manchester-united-beat-former-club-arsenal-2-1.html
Robin van Persie scored against his
former club to help Manchester United beat 10-man Arsenal 2-1 to
move into first place in English soccer’s Premier League.  Van Persie, facing Arsenal for the first time since a 24
million-pound ($38 million) move in August, and Patrice Evra had
the goals as United jumped one point ahead of Chelsea, which
tied 1-1 at Swansea.  “It was a special day,” van Persie said in an interview
with Sky Sports. “In the end, it was about the game and I think
we played well. Three points, it’s all that matters.”  Santi Cazorla grabbed a consolation goal in stoppage time
for Arsenal, which finished with 10 men after  Jack Wilshere 
received a second yellow card. The Gunners have won just two of
their past 13 games against United and are winless at Old
Trafford since 2006.  Manchester City drew 0-0 at West Ham, Wigan won 1-0 at
Tottenham, Norwich defeated Stoke 1-0, Aston Villa beat
Sunderland 1-0 and Fulham rallied to tie 2-2 with Everton.  Van Persie was the focal point heading into the Old
Trafford game after scoring 132 goals in eight seasons with
Arsenal. The Dutchman, who led the league with 30 goals last
season, said in July he wouldn’t resign with the Gunners when
his contract expires after this campaign.  ‘Ideal Start’  United scored after three minutes as Thomas Vermaelen’s
poor clearing attempt fell to van Persie, who fired a shot into
the lower left corner.  “It was an ideal start for the Manchester United cause and
it was good for Robin,” United manager Alex Ferguson told the
 BBC . “I thought he was fantastic today.”  Van Persie later had a shot palmed away by goalkeeper Vito
Mannone, who also stopped Wayne Rooney’s attempt. Rooney then
hit the left post with a penalty kick late in the first half
after Cazorla’s handball.  Mannone made a one-handed save after van Persie got behind
the defense in the 67th minute, but United made it 2-0 off the
resulting corner kick as Patrice Evra headed in Rooney’s cross.  Wilshere was sent off in the 69th minute for a lunging
challenge on Evra and Cazorla scored with the final kick of the
game in injury time.  Pablo Hernandez’s goal in the 88th minute gave Swansea the
home draw with Chelsea. Victor Moses scored in the 61st minute
for the Blues, who lost at home last weekend to Manchester
United.  Defending champion Manchester City missed a chance to tie
United on 25 points with its goalless draw at West Ham, which
had a first-half score from Kevin Nolan disallowed for offside.
City are the league’s lone unbeaten team, but four draws in 10
games leave it in third place.  Second Win  Ben Watson scored early in the second half as Wigan beat
Tottenham for its second straight victory, while Aston Villa
ended a five-match winless run by topping Sunderland on Gabriel Agbonlahor’s goal.  Bradley Johnson scored with a first-half header as Norwich
beat Stoke to extend its unbeaten run to three matches.  Steve Sidwell’s goal in the 89th minute gave Fulham the
home draw with Everton, which got two goals from Maroane
Fellaini. Everton is unbeaten in seven games, but has tied its
last four.  Queens Park Rangers face Reading in a matchup of the
league’s only winless teams and Liverpool host Newcastle
tomorrow. Sunderland is at West Brom in two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 