-- Vonn Won’t Abandon Ambition to Race in Men’s Downhill
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-11-04T05:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-03/vonn-won-t-abandon-ambition-to-race-in-men-s-downhill.html
Lindsey Vonn’s request to race
against the men on the World Cup circuit this month in  Canada 
was rejected by the International Ski Federation said.  Olympic downhill champion Vonn asked the sport’s governing
body in early October to be able to compete in a men’s downhill
on Nov. 24 in Lake Louise,  Alberta . The American, the most
successful ski racer of her generation with 53 World Cup wins,
has won the women’s race there nine times.  Although the federation said it “respected,” Vonn’s
proposal, it “confirmed that one gender is not entitled to
participate in races of the other and exceptions will not be
made to the FIS Rules,” the Oberhofen, Switzerland-based
organization said in an e-mailed statement.  “‘In terms of her request to participate in the men’s
downhill in Lake Louise, she is welcome to submit a request to
the organizing committee and jury to be a forerunner,” it
added.  Vonn’s proposal was discussed yesterday after the U.S. Ski
and Snowboard Association sent a letter to FIS President Gian Franco Kasper on Oct. 30 asking the federation’s council to
“consider her request to ski a men’s race at some point in her
career.”  “ Lindsey Vonn  is a great champion in our sport and we have
always respected her interests in this new challenge,” USSA
President and Chief Executive Officer Bill Marolt said yesterday
in a statement. “She has achieved greatness from here tenacity
to seek new challenges. We’re disappointed that the FIS Council
did not support the proposal but also respect its decision.”  FIS women’s race director Atle Skaardal had told reporters
in Zurich last month that Vonn’s request was “complicated”
because the women’s event at Lake Louise takes place a week
after the men’s. Under the FIS rules, no one can ski on a race
course a week prior to competition.  Colorado resident Vonn said in an interview on Oct. 26 in
Soelden,  Austria , that she asked to test herself against the men
because she beats them in training and wants “to try to push
the limit.”  Vonn said she’d try to race men next year, should her
request be turned down for this season.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  