-- Yen Tumbles Versus Majors After BOJ Easing; Dollar Gains on Data
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-11-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-03/yen-tumbles-versus-majors-after-boj-easing-dollar-gains-on-data.html
The yen fell against all but one of
its 16 most-traded counterparts as the  Bank of Japan (8301)  added to
its monetary stimulus program amid better-than-forecast U.S.
data that renewed appetite for higher-yielding assets.  The Japanese currency declined for a third week against the
dollar, touching a six-month low yesterday, after hiring in the
U.S. increased more than forecast. Norway’s krone rallied after
Norges Bank said it wouldn’t fight currency appreciation. The
dollars of New Zealand and Australia gained versus the yen after
Chinese manufacturing accelerated. The Dollar Index rose for a
second week before the presidential election on Nov. 6.  “What’s making the yen move is the better U.S. data and
the fact that risk aversion in  Europe  continues to decline,”
Adam Myers, director of foreign-exchange market strategy in
 London  for at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , said yesterday. The BOJ easing
“was not enough of a surprise. We may be due for a snap-back,
as the markets have become very sanguine.”  The yen fell 1 percent to 80.43 per dollar this week in its
longest losing streak since March. It touched 80.68 yesterday,
the weakest level since April 27. The Japanese currency declined
0.2 percent to 103.24 versus the euro. The shared currency
dropped for a second week against the dollar, trading 0.8
percent to $1.2835.  U.S. stock markets were closed Oct. 29 and 30, and bond
markets shut beginning noon on Oct. 29, as  Hurricane Sandy 
caused as much as $50 billion in economic damage as it barreled
into the East Coast.  The BOJ added 11 trillion yen ($137 billion) to increase
its fund to 66 trillion yen while a separate credit-loan program
will stay at 25 trillion yen. The central bank will also offer
unlimited loans to banks to boost credit demand.  Payrolls Report  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, gained for a second week. It strengthened 0.6
percent to 80.56, touching an almost two-month high on Nov. 2
after the nonfarm payrolls report. The gauge is weighted 57.6
percent to movements in the euro.  A net 171,000 workers were added to payrolls after a
148,000 gain in September that was more than first estimated,
Labor Department figures showed yesterday in  Washington ,
compared to the median forecast of 91 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for an advance of 125,000. The jobless rate
rose to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent as more people entered the
labor force.  Presidential Election  With the presidential race four days away, a Washington
Post/ABC News national tracking poll released yesterday showed
President  Barack Obama  and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney 
essentially tied, with 49 percent of likely voters supporting
Obama and 48 percent with Romney.  Romney has said he disagrees with the Federal Reserve’s
measures to stimulate the economy and would replace Chairman Ben
S. Bernanke, who last week reaffirmed the central bank would
purchase $40 billion of debt a month to depress borrowing costs
and spur growth.  “The Bernanke Fed is a consideration for short-dated rates
in the short-dated bond market,” said Credit Agricole’s Myers.
“What the foreign-exchange market cares about is if there is a
clean sweep in terms of getting control of Congress. If that
were to come true, no matter who wins, the foreign-exchange
market would take that quite positively.”  Norway’s Krone  Norway’s krone rose against all of its major counterparts
as the nation’s central bank kept its benchmark interest rate on
hold on Oct. 31 and said it won’t buy foreign currency to stem
currency appreciation.  “One of the biggest headwinds against near-term krone
strength has been averted,” Erica Blomgren, chief strategist at
SEB AB in Oslo, said Oct. 31.  The krone appreciated 0.6 percent to 5.7381 per dollar. The
currency advanced 1.4 percent to 7.3638 per euro, its biggest
weekly gain since Aug. 10.  The currencies of New Zealand and  Australia  gained as
official figures Oct. 31 showed that a Chinese manufacturing
gauge based on a survey of purchasing managers climbed to 50.2
in October from 49.8 in September, the first expansion in three
months. That matched the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  New Zealand’s dollar, know as the  kiwi , rose to a six-month
high of 66.78 against the yen and the strongest in a month
versus the dollar at 82.89 U.S. cents.  The Aussie rose to a one-month high of $1.0420 and gained
0.6 percent to 83.12 yen.  Euro ‘Rotation’  The euro traded at its lowest level in a month against the
dollar after a report showed the region’s manufacturing
contracted last month and as European governments pressed  Greece 
to make deeper spending cuts.  With Greece pleading for a 31 billion-euro ($40 billion)
aid payout in November and facing a sixth year of recession in
2013, euro finance ministers said unfreezing loans for the
country required more efforts in  Athens  to rein in the budget
deficit and deregulate the economy.  “For the euro, it’s more rotation out of the currency
because it’s already moved a fair amount,” Noel Hebert, chief
investment officer at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based Concannon
Wealth Management, which oversees about $250 million, said Oct.
29. “It doesn’t feel like people are overanxious to rush back
into the dollar, given the election and the uncertainty going on
at the end of the year.”  The euro weakened 0.7 percent this week, the second-worst
performance after the yen’s 0.8 percent drop among the 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The dollar rose 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  