-- 
Abu Dhabi Ports Hires HSBC, Banks to Work on Khalifa Industrial Zone Debt

-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 
2011-05-31T04:34:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/abu-dhabi-ports-hires-hsbc-banks-to-work-on-khalifa-industrial-zone-debt.html
Abu Dhabi Ports Co., the state-run
harbor operator, has hired banks including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
 National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD)  to work on plans for refinancing
debt taken out to build the Khalifa Industrial Zone.  The company intends to change short-term loans into longer-
term financial instruments once construction is completed,
Executive Vice President Khaled Salmeen Al Kawari said today in
an interview in  Seoul , where he is attending a forum. First Gulf
Bank is also among the international lenders working on funding
facilities, he said.  Construction of the 26.4 billion dirhams ($7.2 billion)
first phase of the  Khalifa Industrial Zone  is 75 percent
complete and on target to open in the fourth quarter of 2012, Al
Kawari said. The 417 square-kilometer (161 square mile)
development, designed to become a hub for manufacturing,
logistics and trade, will account for 15 percent of the
emirate’s non-oil economy within 20 years, he said.  The port company has set aside 8 billion dirhams for
construction costs this year, Al Kawari said. Overall
construction and raw-materials costs have fallen by almost 25
percent because of the global financial crisis that began in
2008, he said.  Abu Dhabi Ports is seeking customers to operate facilities
in the industrial park, which extends toward Dubai, home to the
Jedel Ali trade zone and port. Al Kawari has met with a number
of large companies in  South Korea  to discuss the project during
his trip to Seoul, he said.  Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co., South Korea’s
largest listed builder, has also won an order to build an area
of the industrial zone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  