-- 
Magical Thinking Takes Over Beverly Sills’s Company: Manuela Hoelterhoff

-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 
2011-05-31T09:41:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/magical-thinking-takes-over-beverly-sills-s-company-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
In a popular opera about a clown and
his traveling theater troupe, “I Pagliacci,” the sad-sack hero
roams Calabria in a wagon, pitching up in provincial towns.  Leoncavallo’s masterpiece used to be performed by the  New
York City Opera  before the company’s board began favoring
silence or obscure repertoire.  Almost two weeks ago, the company voted to depart the
recently and handsomely renovated  David H. Koch Theater  at
Lincoln Center. To save money, they wish to roll through  New
York ’s boroughs like Canio the clown shaking his tambourine and
begging bowl.  Since opera goers have not been coming to see them -- box
office is 40 percent on a good night -- they will go to, say,
the Bronx, where there is a huge, unmet desire for that ur-rap
master, Arnold Schoenberg, in situ.  For comparable magical thinking, you’d have to go back to
Hitler dreaming of rescue in that bunker in Berlin.  No alternate theaters or venues were mentioned; no plans
divulged, no funding disclosed.  The announcement startled some in the music community who
expected the company might finally present its fall season -- or
possibly declare bankruptcy. (The board has raided the endowment
and has run a deficit of around $5 million these last seasons).  In fact, as it turned out, the board plans to dramatically
downsize a once great company that has resided at  Lincoln Center 
since 1966 when Beverly Sills adorned herself in Cleopatra’s
glittering robes.  Memories  I grew up in this theater and became friendly with Sills
when she assumed the directorship, which involved eating several
shakedown meals a day with donors and those who might write
about the transaction.  In the 1980s, when I was at the Wall Street Journal, she
whimsically invited me to cost out a day in the life of the
company, everything from the Entenmann’s coffee cake she ate in
the morning and the costume being fitted on Tamino to the
mattress cushioning Tosca’s suicide jump. I came up with
about $115,000 a day. Even the ebullient Sills, who traded on
her television talk-show fame, had to work like the devil to
make payroll.  Young Domingo  Looking back, happy memories are mine from “Lucia” with
Sills, to “Louise,” “Mefistofele,” “Die Tote Stadt” and
“La traviata” with Patricia Brooks and a young Placido Domingo. Ming Cho Lee, Tito Capobianco and Frank Corsaro opened
my eyes with their modern production styles, while Julius Rudel
opened my ears.  In later years, Paul Kellogg built on the company’s
tradition of offbeat repertoire with a popular series of Baroque
operas. If you saw Lorraine Hunt Lieberson in Stephen
Wadsworth’s poetic staging of Handel’s “Xerxes,” you will
remember it forever.  The recent decline was speeded up by the awful decision --
at the behest of an arrogant European manager who never took up
his job -- to close the house two seasons ago for renovations
without securing an alternative performing theater. People
stopped thinking about the opera company.  Perhaps moving to a smaller house is ultimately a solution
for survival. Some 2,500 tickets are a lot to sell, especially
next door to the  Metropolitan Opera , which is successfully
promoting big names, edgy glamour and live telecasts.  Really Sorry  But the very group that’s sunk the company is possibly not
the one to save it. Who would fund the move from Lincoln Center?
Patrons don’t like uncertain futures and tainted pasts. That the
new chairman, Charles R. Wall, who has been there only a few
months, thinks he has the right to radically change the
company’s trajectory, strikes me as rather grand.  Here’s what I think the board should do next: Write an open
letter of apology to the dwindling number of people who still
work there (about 80) and the equally shrinking number of
patrons who still care about the place. Like this:  “We did not mean to harm this company and are very sorry.
Since we are rich and you are not, we are writing large checks
to erase the debt, and have asked  Lincoln Center  to replace us
and general director George Steel. We will now turn our
beneficence to animal shelters. This opera stuff just isn’t for
us.”  That is a good idea, actually. The Lincoln Center board
oversees the 11 constituent organizations that are part of the
large performing-arts complex. The board keeps the center
running smoothly and has some highly compensated, competent
people on it, beginning with President Reynold Levy, whose pay
was boosted to $1.5 million in 2009.  Hopefully, Levy & Co. are coming up with a plan right now
to retain the company and install professionals.  Possible Savior  I doubt there are many volunteers for the top job. But as
it happens, there’s a possible savior right on campus: Joseph Volpe, the smart, high energy ex-general manager of the
 Metropolitan Opera , who is currently assisting the present
manager, Peter Gelb, deal with looming union contracts.  Volpe, as I recall, actually offered to help NYCO not so
long ago, only to be turned down. Now is a good time to step
forward. As Canio sobs: “La commedia e finita.”  How about it, Joseph?  Information:  http://www.nycopera.com .  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and culture section. Any opinions are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 