-- 
Thailand Core Inflation May Reach 3% by September, Atchana Says

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-05-31T09:56:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/thailand-core-inflation-may-reach-3-by-september-atchana-says.html
MSM Malaysia Holdings Bhd. , owner of
the country’s biggest sugar refiner, may raise as much as 891
million ringgit ($295 million) in an initial public offering in
 Kuala Lumpur  for expansion and working capital, two people
familiar with the sale said.  The company, a unit of state-owned Felda Global Ventures
Holdings Sdn., will market shares to institutional investors at
between 3.30 ringgit and 3.50 ringgit per share, said the people,
who couldn’t be named as the information isn’t public.
Individual investors will get a 3 percent discount from the
final price, one of the people said.  The share sale would be  Malaysia ’s second largest since
state oil and gas company Petroliam Nasional Bhd. spun off its
petrochemicals interests in a record 12.8 billion-ringgit
offering in November. UOA Development Bhd., a property developer,
raised 1.05 billion ringgit earlier this month.  MSM Malaysia Chief Executive Officer Chua Say Sin couldn’t
be immediately reached by phone for comment outside of office
hours today.  The Federal Land Development Authority, popularly known as
Felda, originated in 1956 as a government agency tasked with
handling the resettlement of Malaysia’s rural poor. Today, it’s
one of the world’s biggest plantation groups and counts global
companies including  Procter & Gamble Co . among its partners.  Felda Global, its commercial arm, bought Malayan Sugar
Manufacturing Co. Bhd. for 1.22 billion ringgit two years ago
from  PPB Group Bhd. (PEP) , a company controlled by the family of
Malaysia’s so-called “Sugar King”  Robert Kuok .  CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. is lead manager for the share
sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  