-- 
Taiwan Dollar Gains on Speculation Greece Will Get More Aid

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-05-31T08:53:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/taiwan-dollar-gains-on-speculation-greek-to-get-more-assistance.html
Taiwan ’s dollar advanced to a two-
week high on speculation European officials will sanction more
financial assistance for Greece, bolstering demand for emerging-
market assets.  The local dollar strengthened for a fourth day after
Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of euro-
area finance ministers, said European Union leaders will decide
on a new aid package for Greece by the end of next month.
Speculation exporters are repatriating income also buoyed the
Taiwan dollar.  “The piece of good news on Greece helped support sentiment
today and weakened the  U.S. dollar ,” said Eric Hsing, a fixed-
income trader at First Securities Inc. in Taipei. “Exporters
might be buying the Taiwan dollar.”  The  Taiwan dollar  strengthened 0.2 percent to NT$28.772
against its U.S. counterpart as of the 4 p.m. local time close,
according to Taipei Forex Inc. It touched NT$28.636 earlier, the
strongest level since May 13. The currency was little changed
for the month.  The currency was trading 0.7 percent stronger at $NT28.641
two minutes before the close of trading and pared gains on
suspected intervention by the central bank, according to two
traders who declined to be identified as the monetary authority
doesn’t usually disclose such details.  Global funds bought $455 million more Taiwanese shares than
they sold today, paring net sales this month to $484 million,
according to exchange data.  Government bonds  dropped for a second month. The yield on
the 1.375 percent security due March 2021, the most-traded
government debt, increased four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 1.462 percent, according to Gretai Securities Market.
The rate gained two basis points today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  