-- 
Taiwan Prepares for Chinese Tourist Influx Seen Boosting Economic Growth

-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 
2011-06-01T03:24:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/taiwan-prepares-for-chinese-tourist-influx-seen-boosting-economic-growth.html
Chu Shuang-te is scrambling to finish
building a restaurant in Taipei 101, the world’s second-tallest
skyscraper, for Michelin-starred chain Din Tai Fung. He aims to
open in time for  Taiwan ’s next wave of Chinese tourists.  “We’ve been working overtime since March,” said Chu, a
manager at the dumpling specialist, as a 30-strong construction
crew clattered drills behind him. Taiwan is about to permit more
Chinese visitors and the restaurant wants to open in July to
make the most of the opportunity, Din Tai Fung said.  Taiwan is preparing to allow individual tourists from China
for the first time since a civil war ended in 1949, hoping they
will throng attractions such as the  106-story tower . The move,
due as early as this month, may take Chinese arrivals to 4
million next year from less than 200,000 in 2008, when a ban on
group trips was lifted, according to  Barclays Capital  estimates.  “Resurgent tourist spending as millions more Chinese visit
Taiwan will boost consumption and real-estate investment,
similar to the pattern seen in  Singapore  since 2004,” said Wai Ho Leong, an economist at Barclays Capital in Singapore. “The
island’s pursuit of closer commercial ties with China is crucial
to raising its long-term economic growth potential.”  Taiwanese President Ma Ying-jeou, aiming for re-election in
January on a platform of improved economic links that opponents
view as a threat to autonomy, has said tourism is booming since
he let Chinese visit in organized groups. Allowing individuals
will spur $4 billon of investment into the industry in the next
five years, said Chiang Pin-kung, Taiwan’s top China negotiator.  Shares to Gain  Formosa International Hotels Corp. (2707)  and  Ambassador Hotel (2704)  are
among the companies that will gain and their shares are worth
buying, Fubon Securities Co. Ltd. said.  Taipei-based Formosa, Taiwan’s biggest listed hotel company,
will climb about 8 percent to NT$630 ($22) over the next six
months, while Ambassador will jump 12 percent to NT$54,
according to Fubon.  Enmity between Taiwan and China has eased since Ma took
office in May 2008, dropping his predecessor’s pro-independence
stance and improving commercial ties with the world’s fastest-
growing major economy.  The two sides on Jan. 1 cut import taxes on more than 800
products under their first trade treaty, and will meet in Taipei
on June 8 to review the 15 agreements signed since Ma came to
power, according to Taiwan’s Mainland Affairs Council.  Overtaking  Japan   China, which views Taiwan as part of its territory,
 overtook  Japan last year as the island’s largest source of
tourist arrivals with 1.63 million visitors, up 68 percent from
2009. The daily quota for Chinese traveling in groups is 4,000,
and the Taipei-based United Daily News reported May 18 the
initial limit for individuals will be 500.  “We believe that once the individual visitor scheme starts,
the daily limit and other conditions will be loosened,
benefiting the Taiwan hotel sector and retailers in the long
term,” Yoshihiko Kawashima, an analyst at Daiwa-Cathay Capital
Markets Co. Ltd., wrote in a research note in April.  Marriott International Inc. and  Starwood Hotels & Resorts
Worldwide Inc. (HOT)  are among global hoteliers increasing capacity in
Taiwan. Marriott, the largest publicly traded U.S. lodging chain,
is working with Taiwanese businessman B. V. Riu on a NT$6.2
billion, 352-room franchise agreement.  Taiwan’s Taiex Tourist Index, which tracks eight companies,
has surged 42 percent in the past year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark Taiex stock index has
jumped 24 percent in the same period.  Economic Growth  Taiwan’s export-led economic growth quickened to a 24-year
high of 10.88 percent in 2010 after a recession the previous
year. Officials have raised  interest rates  and approved property
and luxury taxes to curb price pressures, while increasing wages
to help people cope with higher costs.  The more than 2 million Chinese visitors to Taiwan since
2008 have delivered an NT$100 billion economic benefit, said
Chiang, chairman of the  Straits Exchange Foundation .  Building on such gains depends on sustaining the thaw in
ties. China has more than  1,000 missiles  deployed at locations
opposite Taiwan, according to the U.S. Department of Defense,
and has threatened to invade if the island declares independence.  “There are political and military risks,” said Chang Wu- ueh, a professor of political science at Taipei’s Tamkang
University. “Ma needs to assure Taiwanese people that he is
improving ties with  China  and protecting Taiwan’s autonomy.”  Political Risk  The opposition  Democratic Progressive Party  candidate for
president, Tsai Ing-wen, has accused Ma of selling Taiwan short
with a policy of rapprochement “boxed in a frame set by
China.”  The pro-independence DPP governed from 2000 until Ma’s
 Kuomintang  took power in 2008. The DPP rallied tens of thousands
of people in Taipei last year to protest the trade accord,
saying it risked giving China too much sway over Taiwan.  Companies are betting tourism growth will weather political
risks. China is Taiwan’s biggest trading partner and investment
destination, adding pressure for detente.  Taipei-based Ambassador, Taiwan’s second-largest listed
lodging company, plans to open a 162-room hotel in the capital
this year and another with 220 rooms in 2013.  “Chinese tourists are going to help retailers and boost
domestic consumption,” said Bill Chen, a vice president at
Ambassador. “They will benefit everyone, not just hotels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  