-- 
Malaysia’s CIMB, Maybank to Start Competing Merger Talks With RHB Capital

-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-05-31T12:09:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/malaysia-s-cimb-maybank-to-start-competing-merger-talks-with-rhb-capital.html
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  and  Malayan
Banking Bhd. (MAY)  won separate Malaysian central bank approval to
begin competing merger talks with  RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC) , triggering a
takeover battle that may create Southeast Asia’s biggest bank.  The combined capitalization of CIMB and RHB would be $27.3
billion, based on today’s closing prices. Maybank could boost
its market worth to $28.8 billion, which would exceed the $27.7
billion value for  Singapore ’s  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , the
region’s largest lender.  “Potentially, this could lead to a bidding war for RHB,”
said Jason Chong, who helps manage about $1 billion of assets as
chief investment officer at Manulife Asset Management (Malaysia)
Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur. “Between the two, the merger of RHB and
CIMB would make more sense because with Maybank, there will be a
lot more duplication of assets in terms of branches.”  Malaysia ’s two biggest banks are seeking the acquisition to
expand amid rising competition as the central bank grants more
licenses to international players including Bank of China Ltd.
Hong Leong Bank Bhd. this month bought EON Capital Bhd., while
ECM Libra Financial Group Bhd. is said to have appointed an
adviser to find a buyer.  “RHB will consider all proposals that are beneficial to
shareholders,” Azlan Zainol, chairman of RHB’s banking unit,
said in an interview today. “As far as I am concerned, I have
not being officially notified on the proposals.”  Open to Merger  RHB is open to merging although nothing is currently
planned, Azlan told reporters last month. He is also chief
executive officer of the bank’s biggest shareholder, state-run
pension fund Employees Provident Fund, which holds a 45 percent
stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB)  has said it’s seeking to
sell its 25 percent RHB interest. The United Arab Emirates’s
third-biggest bank by assets appointed  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. to advise on an
exit, Chief Executive Officer Ala’a Eraiqat said last month.  RHB was this month overtaken as Malaysia’s fourth-biggest
lender by assets following Hong Leong’s takeover of EON. RHB has
 operations  spanning all key areas of financial services,
including a branch network, treasury, investment banking and
Islamic finance.  “It is incumbent on us to engage on this opportunity to
put forward a value creating merger between the two banks and
support the national banking consolidation agenda,” Nazir Razak, group chief executive officer at CIMB said in a statement
today. “It is, however, very early days as negotiations have
not even commenced.”  Playing Catch-Up  While Maybank is currently the country’s biggest lender by
both assets and market value, its international investment
banking operations have lagged rival CIMB.  In a bid to catch up, Maybank this month completed the
S$798 million ($647 million) acquisition of a 44.6 percent stake
in  Kim Eng Holdings Ltd. , a Singapore-based securities and
investment-banking group, which has offices in countries
including  Hong Kong , Thailand, the Philippines and  India .  An RHB merger “would be consistent with Maybank’s vision to
become the regional financial services leader,” Maybank said in
an e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji in Hong Kong at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 