-- 
Malaysia Rare Earths in Largest Would-Be Refinery Incite Protest

-- B y   Y o o l i m   L e e
-- 
2011-05-31T21:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/malaysia-rare-earths-in-largest-would-be-refinery-incite-protest.html
On a sweltering Sunday in April, more
than 300 people pack a room above GC Curry House, a popular
eatery on a tree-lined avenue in Kuantan on  Malaysia ’s east
coast. They’re here to discuss the potential hazards of a rare-
earth refinery Sydney-based Lynas Corp. is building about 25
kilometers away that will process radioactive ore into the
exotic metals that go into tech gadgets, hybrid cars and weapon
systems.  Member of Parliament Fuziah Salleh tells the residents that
the Australian company got a 12-year tax break from Malaysia
even as other countries would shun the plant -- set to be the
world’s largest rare-earth refinery -- because of the health
risks it poses. That information draws boos from the crowd.  An audience member, Chow Kok Chew, says he used to live
near a rare-earth plant in western Malaysia run by a joint
venture that included Japan’s  Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corp. (4188) 
and shut down in 1992. Carelessness by plant operators led to
the radiation poisoning of local people’s livestock, he says.  Now a Kuantan resident, Chow, 61, sobs as he says, “I
don’t want it to happen here.”  Protesters have called on Prime Minister Najib Razak to
block the refinery’s opening, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports
in its July issue.  Safety Review  In response, the government on April 22 announced that an
independent panel of experts would conduct a one-month safety
review and hold up the plant’s pre-operating license until it
was complete. Still, Lynas says it expects to begin producing
rare earths at the site on schedule in the third quarter.  The protests threaten to interfere with Najib’s efforts to
show he’s committed to an economic plan that seeks $444 billion
in private investment over nine years. He has to avoid angering
voters who have environmental concerns. During the period when
the plant got approvals for planning and construction, Najib was
either deputy prime minister or, starting in April 2009,
Malaysia’s premier. And yet he must attract companies and
industries that can help him meet his target for the next five
years of 6 percent annual growth in gross domestic product.  Najib has promised voters he will more than double per-
capita income to $15,000 in 2020 from $6,700 in 2009. The next
elections must be called by early 2013.  Luring Investment  In a March 29 interview with Bloomberg News, Najib said he
would make sure the refinery is run safely. He also said
Malaysia wants to attract foreign firms to boost growth.  The refinery will create 350 highly skilled jobs and at
least $1.7 billion in annual exports, according to Lynas. That’s
equivalent to about 1 percent of Malaysia’s GDP.  Malaysia certainly needs increased private investment, says
Manu Bhaskaran, Singapore-based head of economic research at
Centennial Group, a consulting firm. Excessive government
interference in the economy in the immediate aftermath of the
Asian financial crisis drove businesses away, and while things
are beginning to improve, there is ground to make up, he says.  “Malaysia has lost its competitiveness because it has not
adapted to the changes in the global arena,” he says. “There
has been a hemorrhage of talent out of the country.”  The  World Bank  said in an April report that the number of
skilled Malaysians living abroad has tripled in two decades,
with more than half of them living in  Singapore .  Slowing Growth  Growth fell to an average of 4.6 percent a year in the
decade that ended in 2010, down from a 7.2 percent annual
average in the 1990s. While a rebound from the global recession
helped the economy expand a healthy 7.2 percent last year,
neighboring Singapore grew twice as fast.  Prior to the financial turmoil in  Asia  in 1997 and 1998,
economists dubbed Malaysia one of the next East Asian tigers,
along with  Indonesia , the  Philippines  and  Thailand .  The country attracted manufacturers such as  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and
 Seagate Technology Plc. (STX)  The capital boomed and could boast the
tallest buildings in the world when the twin, 88-story Petronas
Towers opened in 1999.  In the early 1990s, the country garnered more than 11
percent of the foreign direct investment that was flowing to
East Asia, according to United Nations data. That put it ahead
of Thailand, Indonesia and  South Korea  -- nations now beating
Malaysia in luring foreign capital.  East Asian Tigers  The East Asian tiger title originally referred to the
economies of Singapore,  Hong Kong , South Korea and  Taiwan , which
experienced decades of high growth that allowed them to join the
ranks of high-income nations. Now, Malaysia trails the other so-
called tiger cubs that hoped to follow the same path.  Last year, foreign investment in Malaysia rebounded to $7
billion from a dismal $1.4 billion in 2009, when it was hurt by
the credit crunch and economic slowdown.  Companies with government ties have crowded out private
investors in Malaysia’s economy, says Scott Lim, who manages the
equivalent of $470 million of assets as chief executive officer
of Kuala Lumpur-based MIDF Amanah Asset Management Bhd. With
little foreign capital, the country has fallen behind in the
years since the Asian financial crisis, Lim says. “We lost the
last decade,” he says.  The government has tried to protect Malaysians from
inflation with subsidies for gasoline, sugar, rice, flour and
other staples, says Gerald Ambrose, managing director at
Aberdeen Asset Management Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . He says it has
also interfered in the labor market and favored government-
connected businesses.  ‘Too Comfortable’  “The Malaysian private sector perhaps didn’t have to
strive so hard to survive as they did in neighboring
countries,” Ambrose says. “It became too comfortable.”  Najib is trying to change that. He announced his economic
strategy in September; as of April he had identified 72 large
infrastructure projects in a dozen key industries such as
petroleum, transportation and palm oil. These would generate 106
billion ringgit ($35.5 billion) of investment and almost 300,000
jobs, the government says.  “Let me put on record that under the economic
transformation plan, 92 percent of investment will come from the
private sector,” Najib, 57, said in the interview at his office
in the government center of Putrajaya, south of Kuala Lumpur.  Geoffrey Ng, who manages $1 billion as chief executive
officer of HLG Asset Management in Kuala Lumpur, says Najib is
moving the right direction. “Prime Minister Najib’s
transformation plans for Malaysia are refreshing and indeed
ambitious,” Ng says. “As is usually the case, execution is the
key.”  Idris Jala  Ambrose says Najib’s decision to put Idris Jala, an
experienced businessman with no political affiliations, in
charge of the economic plan boosted confidence. Jala turned
around money-losing  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS)  while he was
CEO of the state carrier from 2005 to 2009.  To foster development of private industry, Najib, who is
also finance minister, has pledged to sell shares in state-owned
companies to help double the size of the country’s capital
markets by the end of the decade. Malaysia can already claim
success in having made Kuala Lumpur a center of Islamic finance.  Lynas was founded by Nicholas Curtis, a former executive
director at Macquarie Group Ltd.,  Australia ’s largest investment
bank. The company says it had approvals to build its refinery in
Australia and rejected that option because it couldn’t find a
site that met its requirements.  China ’s Dominance  China was also in the running to host the plant until the
Chinese government decided to impose import and export duties on
rare earths processed there. China today has a chokehold on
production of rare earths, controlling more than 95 percent of
the market.  Curtis, who is CEO, says his plant fits into Najib’s
economic strategy. The government has shown its support by
giving his project “pioneer” status, which includes a 12-year
tax exemption. By making Malaysia the most important source of
 rare-earth  materials outside of China, the country can attract
green industries such as  wind turbines  and hybrid cars, he says.  Curtis says he has met Najib and discussed his plant, in
particular when Lynas settled on the site near Kuantan, the
capital of Pahang, the state the premier hails from. “I think
he understands the opportunities and possibilities the project
might bring.”  Money managers such as MIDF Amanah’s Lim agree that
Malaysia needs to draw overseas investors. “In order to have a
thriving economy, you need to have foreign participation from
the private sector,” he says.  ‘Dangerous Projects’  Lim is nonetheless sympathetic to the protests over rare-
earth processing. “I wish we were more careful and would not
let dangerous projects start operation in Malaysia,” he says.  Opponents of the Kuantan project are growing more vocal.
Their concerns about radiation were galvanized by the releases
of contaminated steam and water from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant in  Japan  that was ravaged by the March 11
earthquake and tsunami.  The International Atomic Energy Agency in late May
appointed the independent panel that Najib’s government promised
to convene. The nine health and safety experts are carrying out
their review of the Lynas project in Malaysia through June 3,
and the group will submit its report to the government by the
end of the month.  Lynas’s Curtis says his Malaysia plant will be safe.  The potential hazard comes from the desired metals such as
neodymium and yttrium being found in ore that contains
radioactive thorium.  ‘No Risk to Health’  The ore that will be processed in Malaysia comes from a
mine in Australia and has very low levels of thorium, Curtis
says. “There is absolutely no risk to public health,” he says.  T. Jayabalan, a doctor who says he has been monitoring and
treating patients affected by the Mitsubishi Chemical plant that
shut two decades ago, is wary of Lynas’s assurances. The
argument that low levels of thorium in the ore make it safer
doesn’t make sense, he says, because radiation exposure is
cumulative.  Najib says the plant will be watched carefully: “If it
does not meet best international practices, then we will
review.”  Chow, at the meeting in Kuantan, says some of his neighbors
used bags of fertilizer that contained radioactive waste. They
spread it on a plot where animals grazed. “The cows that ate
the grass all died,” Chow says.  Asian Rare Earth  Osamu Shimizu is a director of Asian Rare Earth, the joint
venture partly owned by Mitsubishi Chemical that ran the plant
in western Malaysia. He says the company might have sold a few
bags of calcium phosphate fertilizer on a trial basis as it
sought to market byproducts. Unlike the thorium from rare-earth
processing, calcium phosphate is not radioactive or dangerous,
he says.  These days in Balok Makmur, a neighborhood just 3
kilometers (2 miles) from the Lynas site, residents say they
live in fear. The entrance of the village has a banner written
in the Malay language: “Stop Lynas, Save Malaysia.”  Seated at a table at the Warung Kak Ani outdoor restaurant,
Zakaria Mohamad, 54, says the promise of economic benefits to
Malaysia seems remote, while the threat posed by the plant is
immediate. “We don’t want Lynas,” he says. “Life here is
simple, content and peaceful, and we don’t want that to
change.”  For Najib, life is less simple and peaceful as protesters
reject a plant that is supposed to boost Malaysia’s development.
Instead of having a showcase of how the country can appeal to
foreign investors and shake off a decade of subpar growth, he
faces angry voters who want the project to go away.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoolim Lee in Singapore at 
 yoolim@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  