-- 
Justice Alito Cast 2009 Vote in ABC Case When His Family Held Disney Stock

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-06-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/alito-cast-2009-vote-in-abc-case-while-family-held-disney-stock.html
Justice  Samuel Alito , acknowledging
an unintentional conflict of interest, said a staff oversight
led him to take part in a 2009 U.S. Supreme Court ruling
involving  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC Inc. even though his children
held Disney stock.  Alito voted against ABC in the case, joining a 5-4 majority
that revived Federal Communications Commission efforts to crack
down on televised vulgarities. The decision left open the
prospect that the FCC rules might be struck down on First
Amendment grounds.  “It was apparently an oversight on the part of my staff,”
Alito said in an interview yesterday. “They did a check for
Disney, but apparently they did not do a check for ABC, and as a
result they did not come up with this.”  Federal law requires judges to disqualify themselves if
they have a financial interest in a case, including owning stock
in a company that is a party to a dispute.  Alito said his mother gave the stock to his two children,
now in their 20s, when they were young. He said the shares were
worth about $2,000 at the time of the gift. The family sold the
stock last year.  “This was a trivial holding by my two children,” Alito
said.  “I’ve been meaning for many years to get rid of it.”  Stock Certificates  Alito said he didn’t sell the stock earlier in part because
the holding was in the form of actual paper certificates -- 35
for each child. He said his mother “bought the stock
certificates, which made it a pain in the neck to sell the
stock.”  Alito said he learned about the conflict of interest only
yesterday through inquiries by reporters.  “It had absolutely no effect on my judging,” he said. “I
had no knowledge that there was any relationship” between
Disney and ABC.  He has disqualified himself in other cases involving
companies whose shares he owns. In 2008, Alito didn’t take part
in the court’s 5-3 decision cutting the punitive damage award
against  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  for the 1989 Exxon Valdez disaster to
from $2.5 billion to $507.5 million.  Alito also stepped aside in June 2009 when the justices
refused to hear another case, concerning home television
recording, that involved a Disney unit.  He still owns shares in Exxon and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ,
according to his most recent financial disclosure report,
released last week. He said in the interview that he is trying
to reduce his individual stock holdings.  Ginsburg Precedent  Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  was involved in a series of
similar episodes in the 1990s, when she took part in cases
involving companies in which her husband owned shares.  The Alito incident is “disturbing” and “sets a bad
example” for lower court judges, said Arthur Hellman, an expert
in judicial ethics at the  University of Pittsburgh  School of
Law.  “I don’t think anybody would think that a judge or justice
would be influenced by a financial interest this tiny in a very
large corporation that does so many other things,” Hellman
said. “But Congress deliberately made a decision to make it a
bright-line rule.”  Alito’s participation will be “a big problem from a public
relations standpoint, but if people look into the reality here,
it’s a very small holding,” said  Richard Painter , a law
professor at the  University of Minnesota  in  Minneapolis  who
served as President  George W. Bush ’s chief ethics officer.  The 2009 ruling theoretically could be re-opened, said
Hellman. As a practical matter, that isn’t likely to happen
because a federal appeals court has since ruled that the FCC is
violating the Constitution’s free-speech guarantee. The Obama
administration is appealing to the  Supreme Court .  “Given all that has happened, it would seem to be fairly
futile to undo that particular ruling,” Hellman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 