-- 
Alpha Decision to Keep Massey Executives Questioned by Democrats

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-05-31T21:29:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/alpha-decision-to-keep-massey-executives-questioned-by-democrats.html
Alpha Natural Resources Inc.’s
decision to retain top executives of  Massey Energy Co. (MEE) , owner of
the West Virginia coal mine where 29 workers died last year, is
being questioned by two Democratic lawmakers.  “Keeping miners safe requires not only compliance with
minimum safety standards, but also a culture where senior
managers place safety ahead of production in practice, not
merely words,” Representatives  George Miller  and Lynn Woolsey,
California Democrats, said in a letter to Alpha Chief Executive
Officer Kevin Crutchfield. “That approach was not followed at
Massey Energy, which cost many miners their lives.”  Alpha will retain Massey CEO Baxter Phillips, Chief
Operating Officer Chris Adkins and General Counsel  Shane Harvey ,
according to an April 15 letter to employees cited by Miller and
Woolsey. The lawmakers, members of a House committee that
oversees mining issues, said they are “troubled by
indications” that Alpha “thinks that miners are fairly served
by perpetuating Massey’s safety culture for even one minute
longer.”  A report by a West Virginia investigator on May 19 found
that Massey is to blame for the fatal explosion at its Upper Big
Branch mine last year, the deadliest U.S. mining disaster in 40
years. The disaster was preventable had Massey followed basic,
well-tested safety-procedures, according to the report.  Massey disagreed with the state conclusion that a buildup
of coal dust led to the blast. Harvey on May 19 said the company
believes a massive inundation of natural gas is to blame.  In January, Massey agreed to be acquired by  Alpha Natural
Resources Inc. (ANR)  for $7.1 billion.  Ted Pile , a spokesman for Alpha, didn’t immediately return
a telephone message seeking comment. Massey Energy had no
comment on the letter, according Micah Ragland, a spokesman for
the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in  Washington  at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  