-- 
California Bill Directs Online Retailers to Collect Sales Tax

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-06-01T04:23:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/amazon-com-required-to-collect-sales-tax-under-california-assembly-s-bill.html
California  would require online
retailers including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  to collect  sales tax  on
Internet purchases by state residents under a bill passed by the
Assembly.  The  bill , approved 47-16 yesterday, directs retailers that
have a physical presence in the state to collect sales taxes on
online transactions. Such a tax may net $83 million a year,
according to the California Equalization Board, the authority
that collects sales and use taxes in the state.  “If you don’t support this bill, you support  tax evasion 
and you’re antibusiness,” the bill’s author, Assemblyman
Charles Calderon, a Democrat from Montebello, said before the
vote. He estimated that the state loses $1.15 billion a year in
uncollected sales and use taxes.  The bill is one of four measures before lawmakers in the
most-populous U.S. state intended to increase tax collections
from online sales. California is home to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , whose
iTunes site accounted for 69 percent of all digital downloads in
the U.S. as of September, according to research firm NPD Group
Inc., and to  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , the online auction site with $2.22
billion in second-quarter revenue.  Amazon, the world’s largest online retailer, has threatened
to sever ties with more than 10,000 affiliates in California
over the sales taxes. In February, the company said it would
close a facility in  Texas  over a similar issue.  Mary Osako, a spokeswoman for Seattle-based Amazon, and
Jeffrey Leacox, a lawyer in Sacramento representing online
retailers including Amazon, didn’t respond to telephone calls
seeking comment.  Constitutionality Questioned  Such a bill as the Assembly passed may be unconstitutional,
Paul Misener, Amazon’s vice president for global public policy,
said in a Feb. 24  letter  to George Runner, a member of the
Equalization Board.  The U.S. Supreme Court forbade states from requiring
retailers without a physical presence in the state to collect
taxes, Misener said. Instead, buyers are supposed to self-report
and pay taxes on their purchases. Misener wrote that Amazon
itself does not have a physical presence in California.  “If any of these new tax-collection schemes were adopted,
Amazon would be compelled to end its advertising relationships”
with more than 10,000 California-based Web marketers, Misener
said in the letter to Runner. “Job and income losses and little,
if any, new  tax revenue ” have resulted from such measures in
other states, he said.  The California Legislature passed a similar online sales-
tax bill in 2009 that was vetoed by then-Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , a Republican.  Assemblyman Bill Berryhill, a Republican from Ceres, said
local businesses have been clamoring for the tax measure.  “This bill levels the playing field for those businesses
in California,” Berryhill said before the vote. “Not a day
goes by when I don’t hear from businesses about their ability to
compete.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  