-- 
Andy Robustelli, Hall of Fame Defensive End for Giants, Rams, Dies at 85

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-05-31T19:49:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/andy-robustelli-hall-of-fame-defensive-end-for-giants-rams-dies-at-85.html
Andy Robustelli, a Hall of Fame
National Football League player for the  New York Giants  and Los
Angeles Rams, has died in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . He was 85.  The cause of death was complications from surgery,
according to a press release from the Giants.  Robustelli, an end from Arnold College, was selected by the
then-Los Angeles Rams in the 19th round of the 1951 draft.
Undersized for his position at 6-foot-1 and 230 pounds,
Robustelli was considered a long shot just to make the team,
according to his online biography at the  Pro Football Hall of
Fame , in Canton,  Ohio . He went on to earn seven Pro Bowl
selections in 14 seasons with the Rams and Giants.  Those seasons included NFL championship wins with  Los
Angeles  in 1951 and New York in 1956. In 1962, the Maxwell Club
 named Robustelli  the NFL’s outstanding player.  “He was one of the greatest players in franchise history
and one of the finest, most dignified gentlemen you could ever
meet,” Giants owner John Mara said in a statement. “Andy was a
man’s man in every respect.”  Robustelli was born Dec. 6, 1925 in Stamford. He played
football and baseball at Stamford High School before enlisting
in the U.S. Navy, where he served on the USS William C. Cole in
the Pacific Theater in World War II. After the war, he enrolled
at Arnold, in Bridgeport, Connecticut.  Winning Seasons  Robustelli eventually played nine seasons with the Giants,
the last three as a player coach, his Canton biography says. He
missed one game his entire career, finished with a winning
record in 13 of 14 seasons and was elected to the Hall of
Fame in 1971.  “Andy was a great leader,” teammate Frank Gifford said in
the news release. “When he came to us from the Rams, it turned
everything around defensively.”  Robustelli also worked as the Giants’ director of
operations from 1974 to 1978 and helped draft future Hall of
Fame linebacker Harry Carson.  Robustelli’s wife, Jeanne Dora, died April 1, the Giants
said. He is survived by nine children, 29
grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.  Funeral arrangements are pending, the team said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 