-- 
Anglo Irish, INBS Don’t Need Further Bailout, Central Bank Says

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-05-31T15:30:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/anglo-irish-inbs-don-t-need-further-bailout-central-bank-says.html
Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and Irish
Nationwide Building Society, whose bailouts have cost the nation
34.7 billion euros ($50 billion), don’t need more aid, the Irish
Central Bank said after loan-loss assessments of both lenders.  The Dublin-based central bank hired  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s
BlackRock Solutions unit to review both banks. The most recent
capital injections into the two banks late last year were on the
basis of loan-loss estimates that “have been found to be
reasonable by BlackRock” and “this analysis does not indicate
that an additional capital requirement is required,” the
central bank said in a statement today.  Dublin-based Anglo wasn’t put through “a full BlackRock
exercise” as the most recent review, carried out by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in September for the  Finance
Ministry , the central bank and Anglo Irish management was
“current enough,” according to the statement. Blackrock
analyzed Irish Nationwide’s remaining loans in detail, it said.  The government had said it would need to impose losses on
senior Anglo Irish bondholders if it had to inject additional
capital. Anglo Irish and Irish  Nationwide Building Society , both
seized by the state over the past two years following a domestic
real-estate market collapse, are being merged and wound down
over  10 years .  Both lenders were given stress tests in September, when the
cost of bailing out Anglo Irish was put at 29.3 billion euros on
a base case, rising to 34.3 billion in a worst-case scenario.
Irish Nationwide’s cost was assessed at 5.4 billion euros.  Anglo Irish’s 1.25 billion euros of senior unsecured
floating-rate notes, due January 2012, rose to 85.71 euros at
4:16 p.m. in Dublin from 83.70 euros before the central-bank
statement, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  