-- 
Manhattan’s 11 Times Square Skyscraper to Get Its Second Tenant

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-05-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/manhattan-office-tower-built-during-property-slump-gets-its-second-tenant.html
The owners of  Manhattan ’s 11 Times
Square, a 40-story skyscraper built as the office market was
peaking, have signed their second tenant, law firm Zukerman Gore
Brandeis & Crossman LLP.  The lease is for 17,144 square feet (1,593 square meters)
of the 1.1 million-square-foot tower, said Peter Turchin, a
broker at  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. (CBG)  who represents the
building’s landlords. The agreement follows a deal for 406,400
square feet, signed a year ago by another law firm, Proskauer
Rose LLP.  The Zukerman lease, signed May 20, should help turn around
the $1.2 billion project, Turchin said. Construction of the
skyscraper was begun in 2007 during a boom in Manhattan office
demand, and completed in 2010 after the credit bubble burst.  “The building was constructed in a flat market, and it is
now seeing a benefit from a market that’s in rebound mode,”
Turchin said. “I have a high degree of confidence that there
will be other tenants, and you’ll be hearing announcements like
this in the next coming months.”  The tower was built by a joint venture of SJP Properties, a
developer based in Parsippany,  New Jersey , and Prudential Real
Estate Investors, a unit of  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-biggest U.S. life insurer. It’s the last of six towers
constructed as part of New York’s 42nd Street Redevelopment
Plan, which transformed the once-seedy area into a home for
investment banks, media companies and family entertainment.  Rising Midtown Rents  Landlords were asking an average of $81.12 a square foot
for the top 20 percent of midtown Manhattan office buildings as
of May 1, according to Los Angeles-based CB Richard Ellis, the
world’s biggest commercial real estate services firm. That’s up
25 percent from a low set in late 2009.  In mid-2007, when construction of 11 Times Square started,
those rents averaged $113.48, data from the brokerage show. They
peaked at $121.20 in mid-2008.  Zukerman is paying “very close” to SJP’s asking rent of
$72 a square foot for 62 percent of the building’s 15th floor,
Turchin said. The landlord is covering the cost of building out
the space to the tenant’s specifications.  The law firm is leaving 10,400 square feet of offices at
875 Third Ave. on the East Side, where it’s been, in various
buildings, for 23 years, said Jeffrey Zukerman, a partner.  The 11 Times Square lease runs nine years, after which
Proskauer has the right under its agreement to expand into the
space, said Ken Rapp, a CB Richard Ellis broker who represented
Zukerman’s firm.  B.B. King  The building, at Eighth Avenue and 42nd Street, is close to
the Madame Tussauds wax museum, B.B King Blues Club & Grill and
the Port Authority Bus Terminal, a “busy” area compared with
the East Side location Zukerman’s firm has now, he said.  “Are there going to be some differences from where we are
now? Certainly, but Proskauer, from the people I’ve spoken to
there, are so happy there,” Zukerman said. “Once you get into
the building, as lawyers you’re sitting at your desk most of the
day anyway. It’s a changing area, but the building is great, and
the neighborhood is only going to get better.”  The building is near the New York Times headquarters tower,
where law firms Seyfarth Shaw LLP and Covington & Burling LLP
have offices, Rapp said.  Developers are planning about 25 million square feet of new
Manhattan office buildings between now and 2020, including a 1.5
million-square-foot tower that Vornado Realty Trust wants to
build atop the bus terminal. Vornado Chairman  Steven Roth  has
said he might build it “on spec,” meaning without tenant
commitments.  ‘Few’ More Tenants  The  11 Times Square  building is the only current option in
Manhattan for tenants seeking space that is both new and built
to the U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and
Environmental Design standards, Turchin said. He is working on
deals with “a few” more tenants, he said. Turchin declined to
identify them, say how much space they’re seeking or project
when the property will be fully leased.  The building’s owners “see themselves in a rising
market,” he said. “They think that as the deals progress, and
we lease more and more space, they will reflect higher economics
as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  