-- 
Lanxess Said to Weigh Purchase of Belgian Rival Taminco for $1.4 Billion

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-06-01T07:55:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/lanxess-said-to-weigh-purchase-of-belgian-rival-taminco-for-1-4-billion.html
Lanxess AG (LXS) , the German chemical maker
spun off from  Bayer AG (BAYN)  in 2005, is weighing a purchase of
Belgian rival Taminco BV in a transaction valued at about 1
billion euros ($1.4 billion), three people familiar with the
talks said.  Leverkusen, Germany-based Lanxess has hired  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  to explore a takeover of the Ghent, Belgium-based company,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
discussions are confidential. Lanxess isn’t the only company
considering an offer and the negotiations aren’t exclusive, one
of the people said.  Taminco owner CVC Capital Partners Ltd. is working with
Bank of America Corp. and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to assess
interest in the business, three people with knowledge of the
matter said in April.  Buying Taminco would mark the biggest purchase yet for
Lanxess Chief Executive Officer Axel Heitmann. Taminco would add
amine derivatives that are used in products from crop protection
to paint and cosmetics to Lanxess products that include
plastics, rubber, intermediates and specialty chemicals.  Good Fit  “Taminco and Lanxess have a good strategic fit,” said
Peter Spengler, an analyst at DZ Bank AG, who has a “buy”
rating on the stock. “The acquisition track record of Lanxess
is excellent so far.”  Lanxess rose as much as 96 cents, or 1.6 percent, to 60.95
euros, and traded at 60.85 euros as of 9:49 a.m. in  Frankfurt .
The stock has gained 2.9 percent in value so far this year, for
a market value of 5.06 billion euros.  Lanxess spokesman Rudolf Eickeler declined to comment, as
did Taminco spokeswoman Isabelle De Scheirder and a spokeswoman
for CVC. The Financial Times Deutschland reported late yesterday
that Lanxess is considering the transaction and may also be
weighing other targets.  Taminco Chief Executive Officer Laurent Lenoir said in
March that he gets regular calls from suitors checking in after
the cancellation of a $600 million initial public offering last
year. Lanxess has a medium-term earnings target of about 1.4
billion euros, a goal that Heitmann said earlier this month he’d
seek to achieve with the help of acquisitions.  Attractive Markets  First-quarter net income at Lanxess jumped to 166 million
euros from 104 million euros a year earlier. The chemical maker
is rated Baa2 at Moody’s Investors Service and an equivalent BBB
by  Standard & Poor’s .  In Europe, Taminco’s main competitor is  BASF SE. (BAS)  Taminco
was spun off from  UCB SA (UCB)  in 2003. The company is active in Asian
markets, which makes it attractive to makers of intermediate
chemicals in the region as they seek to add domestic production,  Taminco has reduced debt to 3.2 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, a ratio implying
borrowings of about 510 million euros. Ebitda rose 14 percent to
159 million euros last year.  A purchase of Taminco would add to a flurry of deals in the
chemicals industry, as demand rebounds from customers in the
manufacturing, automobile and personal-care industries.  BASF last year purchased Cognis GmbH for $4.3 billion,
followed by Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s acquisition of  Lubrizol
Corp. (LZ)  for $9 billion three months later.  Solvay SA (SOLB) , the world’s
biggest soda-ash maker, announced the acquisition of  Rhodia SA (RHA) 
last month, and  Ashland Inc. (ASH) , the maker of Valvoline motor oil,
agreed today to buy closely held International Specialty
Products Inc. yesterday for $3.2 billion in cash.  Laxness completed its acquisition of DSM’s elastomer
business for $415 million in March, adding technology to lower
production costs of the material used in cars, cables and
construction. The German chemicals maker also bought Brazilian
rubber maker Petroflex Industria & Comercio SA in 2008 to boost
its presence in South American markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  