-- 
Apax Partners Makes Europe’s First Covenant-Lite Loan Since 2007 Shutdown

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-05-31T10:25:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/apax-partners-makes-europe-s-first-covenant-lite-loan-since-2007-shutdown.html
Apax Partners LLP is taking advantage
of investor appetite for new loans by doing  Europe ’s first
covenant-lite deal in four years.  Apax is adding 150 million pounds ($247 million) of new
debt to Trader Media Group, a U.K. classified ads publisher,
breaking a hiatus in riskier covenant-lite lending since 2007,
according to Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary & Data.
Buyout firms in the U.S. raised $33.4 billion this year from the
loans that eschew investor safeguards.  Private-equity firms are abandoning covenants as a dearth
of new loans means fund managers are struggling to find
investments. Only $11 billion of buyout loans have been issued
in Europe, compared with $18 billion of redemptions through the
end of April, according to S&P LCD.  “The debate the loan market needs to have is whether banks
and fund managers should adjust their mindset about cov-lite
deals for the market to stay competitive relative to bonds,
which are all cov-lite,” said Alan Kerr, Dublin-based managing
director and co-head of Harbourmaster Capital Management Ltd.,
which advises on 8 billion euros ($11.5 billion) of loans.  Covenant-lite loans do away with financial conditions such
as the maximum level of debt a borrower can have or the minimum
 cash flow  they must maintain. Borrowers can also avoid being
forced to renegotiate terms if they miss financial targets.  Scrapping Safeguards  “With the current rate of repayments, loan managers have a
lot of cash they need to deploy, meaning that there are a lot of
technical factors driving the market at the moment,” said John Foy, head of leveraged finance at M&G Investment Management
Ltd., a unit of Prudential Plc.  Ben Harding, a spokesman for Apax in London, didn’t return
a phone call and an e-mail seeking comment.  Apax offered lenders interest of 5 percentage points more
than the London interbank offered rate for the new seven-year
 term loan , part of its plan to pay itself 210 million pounds of
dividends from Trader Media.  In a concession to investors, Apax agreed last week to
forego part of its payout until Trader Media reduces its
 leverage ratio , and increased the margin on one existing term
loan, two people familiar with the situation said. The new
borrowing will increase the publisher’s debt as a ratio of
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization to
more than five times from four times, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the information is private.  Apax has agreed to delay paying itself 50 million pounds of
the dividend until Trader Media’s leverage falls to less than
five times, the people said.  Sweeter Terms  Trader Media also will increase the interest margin on its
existing 584 million-pound term-loan B to 4 percentage points in
exchange for a maturity extension to 2017, the people said. Apax
initially offered 3.5 percentage points.  “Not all cov-lite transactions are bad because there can
be compensating factors such as lower senior debt leverage, or
higher margins. Some of them do make sense for both investors
and borrowers. I am not saying investors need to start buying
more cov-lite loans but it’s an issue the market should face and
address,” Kerr said.  Inflows to funds dedicated to loans and floating-rate debt
jumped to $8.5 billion this year, compared with $1.7 billion in
the same period in 2010, data from Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based EPFR Global show.  The demand has allowed buyout firms including Advent
International Corp.,  Bain Capital  and EQT Partners AB to cut the
interest cost on the LBO loans for the companies they own.  WorldPay Ltd., the Cambridge, England-based credit card
processor acquired by Advent and Bain last year, cut the
interest on the takeover loans by as much as 50 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Swedish buyout firm EQT got approval from lenders to lower
the interest margins by 75 basis points on the term loans of its
Springer Science+Business Media GmbH, and forego the 2 percent
floor on benchmark lending rates, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in  London  at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  