-- 
Harbinger Capital Says U.K. Wrong, Northern Rock Shares Worth $531 Million

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-31T19:42:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/harbinger-capital-says-u-k-wrong-northern-rock-shares-worth-531-million.html
Harbinger Capital Partners, the hedge
fund run by billionaire  Philip Falcone , said holders of Northern
Rock Asset Management Plc’s preferred shares should be paid
322.5 million pounds ($530 million).  The fund owns a “substantial” amount of the shares and
asked a  London  court today to reject the determination from a
valuation expert appointed by the British government, which now
owns the bank, that the shares are worthless.  Mark Phillips , a lawyer for the New York-based fund, said a
“fire sale” of the bank’s assets after the U.K. nationalized
the lender depleted its value by 4 billion pounds.  “That destroyed the value that had already been there,”
Phillips said. Northern Rock was “asset-rich, but cash-poor.”  Northern Rock shares peaked at 1,251 pence in early 2007,
before falling to 90 pence on Feb. 15, 2008, when they were
suspended. The bank, based in Newcastle,  England , was then
nationalized, becoming the first U.K. casualty of the credit
crunch. Northern Rock nearly collapsed in 2007 after seeking
emergency funding from the  Bank of England  and suffering a run
on its deposits.  Andrew Caldwell  of BDO International was appointed in
September 2008 to value Northern Rock and determine how much
shareholders should get back. He said in court filings posted on
his  website  that he determined the amount payable “is nil.”  ‘Utterly Unreasonable’  Harbinger said in court papers the preferred shares were
once worth 400 million pounds and, based on expert reports, a
reasonable amount of compensation is 322.5 million pounds.  “Nil is utterly unreasonable,” Phillips said.  Laura Clare, a spokeswoman for BDO, declined to comment.
The hearing is scheduled to last five days.  Northern Rock shareholders including  RAB Capital Plc (RAB)  and
SRM Global lost a July 2009 court bid for a review of how the
equity of the bank would be valued. The U.K. has committed about
1.4 trillion pounds in direct investments, asset insurance and
loan underwriting to bolster the nation’s banking system.  The case is Harbinger Capital and Northern Rock Applicants
v. Andrew Caldwell and Her Majesty’s Treasury, case no. 10/01,
In the Upper Tribunal (Tax and Chancery Chamber) Financial
Services (London).  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 