-- 
Ashland to Buy International Specialty for $3.2 Billion for Faster Growth

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-05-31T17:14:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/ashland-to-buy-international-specialty-for-3-2-billion-for-faster-growth.html
Ashland Inc. (ASH) , the maker of Valvoline
motor oil, agreed to buy closely held International Specialty
Products Inc. for $3.2 billion to tap demand for higher-margin
ingredients used in personal-care products and pharmaceuticals.  The all-cash purchase of ISP is expected to add to earnings
immediately after closing, which should occur by September,
Covington, Kentucky-based Ashland said today in a statement. The
acquisition will be funded with cash and committed bank
financing, Ashland said.  Ashland Chief Executive Officer James O’Brien has been
shedding commodity units and acquiring more profitable
businesses since he sold the company’s stake in an oil-refining
venture almost six years ago. So-called specialty chemicals will
account for 74 percent of profit after the ISP purchase, Ashland
said.  “They are getting a high margin, high growth business,”
Dmitry Silversteyn, an analyst at Longbow Research who rates
Ashland “neutral,” said in a telephone interview from
Independence,  Ohio . Analysts and investors may assign the shares
a higher earnings multiple, Silversteyn said.  Ashland rose $6.74, or 11 percent, to $67.78 at 1:05 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares gained
20 percent this year before today.  Specialty-Chemical Deals  ISP is the latest specialty-chemical company to be targeted
as competitors seek to diversify away from cyclical markets such
as plastics and other petroleum-based products. BASF SE last
year purchased Cognis for $4.3 billion, followed by Berkshire
Hathaway Inc.’s agreement to acquire Lubrizol Corp. for $9
billion three months later.  Ashland bought Hercules Inc. for $2.28 billion in 2008,
gaining specialty chemicals used for making paper and water
treatment. It sold its 38 percent stake in Marathon Ashland
Petroleum for $2.8 billion cash to Marathon Oil Corp. in a deal
that closed in 2005. Its paving unit was sold in 2006 to CRH Plc
for $1.3 billion and its distribution unit was sold in March to
TPG Capital for $930 million.  90 Countries  ISP, based in Wayne,  New Jersey , has 2,700 employees
serving more than 6,000 customers in 90 countries. It generated
sales of $1.6 billion in the past four quarters, with 59 percent
of revenue outside  North America . Earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization were $360 million, for an
Ebitda margin of about 23 percent, Ashland Chief Financial
Officer Lamar Chambers said today on a conference call.  The transaction values ISP at 8.88 times 2010 Ebitda, which
compares to a median multiple of 7.34 in 45 similar deals
announced worldwide in the past five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The divestiture of the distribution unit boosts Ashland’s
Ebitda to 12.3 percent of sales, from 9.7 percent last year,
Chambers said. ISP will further increase the Ebitda margin to
14.5 percent, and profit will rise almost 10 percent, he said.  The ISP purchase provides Ashland with complementary
offerings for its hair care, oral care, skin care,
pharmaceutical, energy and beverage products, O’Brien said on
the call. ISP makes fixatives for hair gels, tartar and
gingivitis-control ingredients, anti-wrinkle ingredients,
clarifiers for beer and wine, and chemicals that speed the
release of drug ingredients.  ‘Upgrade Ashland’s Portfolio’  “This transaction should help upgrade Ashland’s portfolio
of specialty businesses, focused on less cyclical end markets,”
Laurence Alexander, a New York-based analyst at Jefferies & Co.,
said today in a report. He recommends buying Ashland shares.  ISP was formed by Samuel J. Heyman, who took control of a
predecessor company, GAF Corp., in 1983. He spun off ISP in a
1991 public offering and took the company private again in
February 2003. An activist shareholder, he forced Union Carbide
Corp., acquired later by Dow Chemical Co., to sell off pieces
including Eveready batteries, Glad bags and Prestone antifreeze.
Hercules thwarted a takeover bid by Heyman in 2003. Heyman died
in 2009.  ‘A Personal Transaction’  Ashland has been in contact with ISP for years and
negotiated the deal privately with the family owners in recent
weeks, O’Brien said. He declined in an interview to identify the
family because it was “a personal transaction.” Jason Pollack,
an ISP spokesman, didn’t immediately return a telephone message
seeking comment.  Ashland expects to cut $50 million of annual costs from the
combined companies by the second year of the merger. The company
agreed to pay a breakup fee of $413 million if it doesn’t
complete the transaction.  The transaction won’t expose Ashland to ISP’s asbestos
liabilities and the company’s environmental liabilities are
“not a big issue,” O’Brien said.  Valvoline’s “great cash flow” and predictable earnings
merit a place in Ashland’s portfolio, even though it isn’t a
specialty-chemical business, he said. Ashland also doesn’t plan
to sell its performance-materials unit, as long as margins
improve, he said in the interview.  Citigroup Inc.,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Bank of Nova Scotia
and US Bancorp are providing the financing commitments, Ashland
said in the statement.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch acted as financial adviser
and Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP acted as legal counsel to
Ashland. Moelis & Co. acted as financial adviser and Sullivan &
Cromwell LLP acted as legal counsel to ISP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 