-- 
Asian Currencies Pare Monthly Declines on Improved Greek Debt Outlook

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-05-31T08:25:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/asian-currencies-strengthen-on-progress-to-resolve-greece-s-debt-crisis.html
Asian currencies advanced, led by
Malaysia’s ringgit, as progress on efforts to resolve  Greece ’s
debt crisis buoyed demand for emerging-market assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar Index rose for a fourth
day, paring its decline this month to 0.5 percent, after a
report showed China’s leading economic indicators increased in
April, easing concern Asia’s largest economy is cooling. The
MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks gained 1.4 percent after
Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker, who leads the group of euro-
area finance ministers, said European Union leaders will decide
on a new aid package for Greece by the end of June.  “We have a positive backdrop in  Europe  that the Greece
crisis will not get out of hand,” said D. Sivadass, a foreign-
exchange forwards trader at EON Capital Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur .  The ringgit rose 0.3 percent to 3.0110 per dollar as of
4:11 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Taiwan dollar strengthened 0.2 percent to
NT$28.772, the Singapore dollar climbed 0.2 percent S$1.2319 and
South Korea’s won added 0.1 percent to 1,079.15.  Concern that Europe’s debt crisis is worsening reduced
demand for emerging-market assets this month, halting a rally in
regional currencies. Foreign funds sold $5.1 billion more South
Korean, Indian and Taiwanese shares than they bought in May.
India’s rupee, the ringgit, the Philippine peso and  Thailand ’s
baht all weakened more than 1 percent.  Malaysian Inflation  Malaysia’s currency traded at a two-week high after the
government approved a 7.1 percent increase in power prices,
effective tomorrow, to help claw back state subsidies. Inflation
may accelerate to a two-year high of 3.7 percent to 3.8 percent
in June, Citigroup Inc. said, boosting the chances of a rise in
 interest rates  at the next policy meeting on July 7.  Taiwan ’s dollar rose to a two-week high amid speculation
exporters are converting overseas income to local currency.  “The piece of good news on Greece helped support sentiment
today and weakened the  U.S. dollar ,” said Eric Hsing, a fixed-
income trader at First Securities Inc. in Taipei. “Exporters
might be buying the Taiwan dollar.”  The baht gained for a fourth day as all 16 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the Bank of Thailand will lift
its benchmark rate to 3 percent from 2.75 percent tomorrow.
Consumer prices rose 4.3 percent in May from a year earlier, the
most since September 2008, according to the median estimate in a
separate Bloomberg survey before data tomorrow. The baht
strengthened 0.1 percent to 30.30 per dollar.  Yuan Rises  China ’s yuan rose 0.06 percent to 6.4793 per dollar, and
was poised for a 0.18 percent monthly gain, after the central
bank fixed its reference rate stronger for a fifth day to a
level last seen in July 2005. The nation’s leading macroeconomic
index improved 0.4 percent in April, according to a report by
the China Economic Monitoring & Analysis Center and Goldman
Sachs Research.  “We are not there yet for a pullback in monetary
tightening in Asia,” Leong Sook Mei, regional head of global
currency research in Singapore at Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd., wrote in a report today.  Elsewhere, the Indonesian rupiah gained 0.1 percent to
8,538 per dollar, the peso strengthened 0.1 percent to 43.272
and the rupee was little changed at 45.0775.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 