-- 
Massey Investors Can’t Block $7 Billion Alpha Deal, Delaware Judge Rules

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-06-01T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/massey-investors-can-t-block-alpha-deal-delaware-judge-rules.html
Massey Energy Co. investors lost two
court challenges to  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR) ’s buyout of the
coal producer for more than $7 billion, clearing the way for
today’s shareholder vote on the acquisition.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine yesterday rejected
a request by some Massey shareholders to put off an approval
vote on the deal for 15 days so investors can more thoroughly
study Alpha’s cash-and-stock offer. The West Virginia  Supreme
Court  of Appeals rejected a similar request.  “In my judgment, issuance of an injunction threatens more
harm to Massey stockholders than its potential benefits to
them,” Strine said in a 79-page ruling.  Massey, the largest coal producer in central Appalachia,
was sued by investors in West Virginia and Delaware over claims
the company’s directors failed to push managers to improve
safety conditions after 29 workers died in an April 2010
explosion at the Upper Big Branch mine in  West Virginia .  The shareholders seek to hold Massey’s board liable for
more than $25 million in sanctions related to the blast that
were assessed on the Richmond, Virginia-based company by the
U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration.  Stuart Grant , a lawyer for the New Jersey pension fund that
sued in Delaware, said he was disappointed with Strine’s ruling.  ‘Simple Way Out’  “The message sent is that if you violate the law as a
director, the simple way out is to sell the company,” Grant
said in an e-mailed statement.  Micah Ragland, a Massey spokesman, and Rick Nida, an Alpha
spokesman, didn’t respond to phone calls seeking comment.  Abingdon, Virginia-based Alpha is offering $10 a share in
cash plus stock for Massey. Lawyers for the pension fund contend
Alpha should pay as much as $1.5 billion more for the coal
producer.  In court papers unsealed in the  Delaware  case last week,
lawyers for the New Jersey pension fund said Massey’s top
executives believed there was a U.S. conspiracy to destroy the
company and battled with mine-safety regulators for years over
conditions at the company’s facilities.  ‘Profoundly Reckless Manner’  A state investigator concluded May 19 Massey officials were
responsible for the Upper Big Branch explosion. The firm
“operated its mines in a profoundly reckless manner,”
according to the report issued by J. Davitt McAteer, a former
federal mine administrator named by the governor to investigate
the blast.  The mine, about 46 miles (76 kilometers) south of
Charleston, West Virginia, is run by Massey’s Performance Coal
Co. unit. The nonunion mine opened in October 1994.  Massey officials said May 10 they set aside $78 million to
deal with litigation over the Upper Big Branch incident and have
settled at least five wrongful-death suits.  Dissident Massey investors allege the company’s board was
asleep at the switch as former Chief Executive Officer  Don
Blankenship  and other executives were allowed to systematically
ignore safety regulations to increase coal production.  Blankenship, an almost 30-year veteran of the company,
stepped down in December. He’s slated to receive $45 million in
connection with his departure. Investors contend that amounts to
a waste of corporate assets.  California Pension Fund  In the West Virginia case, filed by a California pension
fund, the state’s highest court said yesterday it didn’t have
jurisdiction to issue an order blocking today’s vote on the
Massey buyout.  Strine, based in Wilmington, Delaware, said he wouldn’t
stop the vote because Massey stockholders “are well positioned
to determine for themselves whether to accept” Alpha’s offer.  Delaying the deal also would keep Massey “under management
the plaintiffs themselves do not consider sound,” the judge
noted.  In the decision, Strine noted that the pension fund’s
lawyers offered evidence that Massey officials put profit over
mine workers’ safety and repeatedly flouted government mining
regulations.  Massey executives believed they “knew better than those
charged with enforcing the law and often argued with the law
itself,” the judge said.  The evidence also showed that the company’s board was
“aware of a troubling continuing pattern of non-compliance in
fact and of a managerial attitude suggestive of a desire to
fight with and hide evidence from the company’s regulators,”
Strine added.  The consolidated case is In Re  Massey Energy Co. (MEE)  Derivative
and Class Action Litigation, CA5430, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net.To  