-- 
Massey Investors Lose Bid to Block Alpha Natural’s $7 Billion Buyout Offer

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-05-31T16:52:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/massey-investors-lose-state-court-bid-to-bar-vote-on-7-billion-buyout.html
Massey Energy Co. (MEE)  investors lost a
bid to block  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR) ’s more than $7 billion
buyout of the coal producer on the eve of a shareholder vote on
acquisition.  The West Virginia  Supreme Court  of Appeals in Charleston
today rejected a request by some Massey shareholders to delay an
approval vote on the deal so investors can more thoroughly study
Alpha’s cash-and-stock offer. A California pension fund that
invested in the coal company alleges Massey gave Alpha’s bid
preference and failed to properly disclose details on the deal.  “This court does not have jurisdiction to award an
injunction in this matter,” the state’s highest court said in a
five-page order. Massey shareholders are scheduled to vote on
Alpha’s offer tomorrow.  Massey, the largest coal producer in central Appalachia,
has been sued by investors in  West Virginia  and Delaware over
directors’ failure to push managers to improve safety conditions
that led to the deaths of 29 workers at the April 2010 Upper Big
Branch mine in West Virginia.  A Massey spokesman, Micah Ragland, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment on the ruling. Rick Nida, an Alpha
spokesman, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on
the court’s ruling and allegations in the unsealed papers.  Disgruntled shareholders are seeking to hold Massey’s board
liable for the Richmond, Virginia-based company’s racking up
more than $25 million in assessed violations by the U.S. Mine
Safety and Health Administration from the disaster.  Alpha’s Offer  Abington, Virginia-based Alpha is offering $10 a share in
cash plus stock for Massey. Lawyers for the pension fund contend
Alpha should pay as much as $1.5 billion more for the coal
producer.  In court papers unsealed in the  Delaware  case last week,
lawyers for the pension fund said Massey’s top executives
believed there was a U.S. conspiracy to destroy the company and
battled with mine-safety regulators for years over conditions at
the company’s facilities.  A state investigator concluded May 19 that Massey officials
were responsible for the Upper Big Branch explosion. The firm
“operated its mines in a profoundly reckless manner,”
according to the report issued by J. Davitt McAteer, a former
federal mine administrator named by the governor to investigate
the blast.  The mine, about 46 miles (76 kilometers) south of
Charleston, West Virginia, is run by Massey’s Performance Coal
Co. unit. The nonunion mine opened in October 1994.  Litigation Reserve  Massey officials said May 10 they set aside $78 million to
deal with litigation over the Upper Big Branch incident and have
settled at least five wrongful-death suits.  Lawyers for the California State Teachers Retirement
System, which holds Massey shares, earlier this month asked a
West Virginia judge to block Alpha’s buyout while they evaluated
the deal. When the judge was unable to hold a hearing in an
expedited manner, the pension fund asked the state’s high court
to step in.  Those judges declined to bar shareholders from voting on
Alpha’s offer, saying the lower court hadn’t ruled on the issue.
The panel also ordered that some papers in the case be unsealed.  In one unsealed filing, lawyers for the California pension
fund contend that Kevin Crutchfield, Alpha’s chief executive
officer, “promised high-ranking positions within the post-
merger company” to Massey officials conducting a internal
review of safety procedures at the Upper Big Branch mine.  Key Facts  Massey executives hid “key facts from shareholders,”
justifying a delay in the vote on the Alpha deal, the attorneys
wrote.  In a separate unsealed document, Massey’s lawyers disputed
the pension fund’s arguments that Crutchfield made promises
about jobs and cited testimony from the CEO that said deciding
who would remain with Massey “was still a work in progress.”  Dissident Massey investors allege the company’s board was
asleep at the switch as  Don Blankenship , then Massey’s CEO, and
other executives systematically ignored safety regulations to
increase coal production.  Blankenship, an almost 30-year veteran of the company,
stepped down in December. He is to receive $45 million in
connection with his departure. Investors contend that amounts to
a waste of corporate assets.  Massey rose 50 cents to $64.52 at 12:43 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Alpha rose 39 cents to $53.46.  The case is California State Teachers’ Retirement System v.
Blankenship, 11-0839, West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals
(Charleston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 