-- 
AT&T Bid for T-Mobile Should Be Rejected, Sprint Tells FCC

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-05-31T21:52:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/at-t-bid-for-t-mobile-should-be-rejected-sprint-tells-u-s-fcc.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  asked regulators
to deny  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc.,
saying the $39 billion deal would decrease competition and raise
consumer prices.  “AT&T’s takeover of T-Mobile must be blocked,” Sprint,
the third-largest wireless carrier, said in comments filed today
at the Federal Communications Commission. The agency and the
 Justice Department  are vetting the transaction announced March
20 that would boost AT&T to become the largest U.S. wireless
carrier, ahead of  Verizon Wireless .  A deal supporter, the Communications Workers of America,
told the FCC in a filing today the transaction will create as
many as 96,000 jobs and accelerate deployment of high-speed
wireless  Internet service .  Opponents and proponents are submitting the comments to
influence the FCC, which is composed of presidential appointees
and has a Democratic majority led by Chairman  Julius Genachowski .  “I am not sure a No. 3 player painting a doom and gloom
scenario is necessarily going to sway the  Department of Justice 
and FCC,”  Christopher King , a Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst in
Baltimore, said in an interview. King said the merger has a two-
thirds chance of passing, with regulators likely demanding the
combined company sell assets such as airwave licenses.  Regulatory Review  The FCC is to examine whether the deal meets a broad
standard of being in the public interest. The Justice Department
in its separate, concurrent review asks whether the deal may
harm competition. AT&T executives have said the agencies’ review
will take about a year.  AT&T’s competitors “are confusing the public interest with
their own particular corporate interest,”  Jim Cicconi , AT&T
senior executive vice president, said in a statement distributed
by e-mail today. Unions with a total membership of more than 15
million workers have filed in support of the deal, as have 14
governors, Cicconi said.  AT&T in an April 21 filing said its purchase of the
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  unit would add airwaves to help it handle
growing mobile Internet use through smartphones and other
devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad.  AT&T Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson on May 11
told U.S. senators the deal would result in fewer dropped calls
and faster, more reliable Internet connections.  AT&T has failed to improve its network, Sprint told the
FCC. “If AT&T has capacity constraints, they are the result of
its failure to upgrade and invest in its network,” Sprint said
in its filing today.  Raise Rates  The merger “would turn back the clock on competition and
innovation,” Sprint said in its filing. AT&T and Verizon
together would have 76 percent of all wireless subscribers,
leaving telephone handset makers “less willing to partner with
any providers,” Sprint said.  AT&T and Verizon could more easily raise rates for other
companies to send calls over their towers, and charge more to
route calls from towers to other places in the phone network,
Sprint said.  The merger would “destroy tens of thousands of jobs,” the
Washington-based public advocacy group Free Press said in
comments to the FCC.  “Eliminating a significant competitor from the wireless
market obviously harms competition,” Free Press President Craig Aaron said in a statement. “Moreover, the two companies do not
need to merge to achieve the capacity or build-out gains they
claim.”  Create a Duopoly  A group of opponents including  Consumers Union  and
Washington-based Media Access Project said they would tell the
FCC the deal would create a duopoly of two large carriers and
“enable AT&T to stifle innovation, increase prices, and
decrease choices for wireless customers.”  “AT&T and Verizon are the two nationwide carriers that
increasingly dominate the market for mobile wireless services,”
the group including Consumers Union said in an e-mail. AT&T’s
“claimed efficiencies” are “speculative, overstated or
inaccurate,” the group said.  Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) , which lets customers
purchase calling plans one month at a time, intended to file in
opposition to the proposed merger, Greg Lund, a spokesman for
the San Diego-based carrier, said in an e-mail.  Leap in a May 24 statement said the merger would
“accelerate the trend of alarming concentration of wireless
providers.”  Another pay-as-you-go carrier,  MetroPCS Communications
Inc. (PCS) , on May 17 said the deal risks putting too much spectrum
into the hands of one carrier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  