-- 
Australian Manufacturing Shrank in May on Soaring Currency

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-05-31T23:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/australian-manufacturing-shrank-in-may-on-soaring-currency.html
Australian manufacturing contracted
in May for the eighth time in nine months as a record-high
currency and consumer caution hurt production and exports, a
private report showed.  The manufacturing index fell to 47.7 from 48.4 in April,
the Australian Industry Group and PricewaterhouseCoopers said in
a survey released in Canberra today. Fifty is the dividing line
between expansion and contraction.  The nation’s factories are lagging behind the  mining
industry , which is expanding to meet Chinese demand for raw
materials and pushing the job market near a level the government
views as full employment. The Australian currency reached
$1.1012 on May 2, the highest since it was freely floated in
1983.  “The manufacturing industry is clearly under escalating
competitive pressures magnified by our very high currency, which
is close to 40 percent above its post-float average against the
 U.S. dollar ,”  Heather Ridout , chief executive officer of the
industry group, said in a statement. “Key input costs such as
energy are rising and manufacturers face ever shrinking
margins.”  The strength of the local dollar has allowed  Reserve Bank 
of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens to keep the benchmark
interest rate unchanged at 4.75 percent for the past five
meetings. The central bank said in a report last month that
higher rates are likely to be needed “at some point” to
contain inflation.  GDP Contraction  The nation’s economy probably shrank 1.1 percent in the
first quarter, the steepest contraction in two decades,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists before a
government report due at 11:30 a.m. in Sydney today.  The index’s reading on wages fell 0.8 point to 59.3 and
inventories slid 4.9 points to 44.4, today’s report showed.
Supplier deliveries climbed 2.6 points to 50.9.  A gauge of employment rose 1.4 points to 46.4 in May, and
new orders advanced 2.2 points to 48.6, the report showed. The
production measure slumped 6.4 points to 46.9.  The manufacturing survey, which is similar to the U.S. ISM
index, polled more than 200 companies about production, new
orders, deliveries, inventories and employment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  