-- 
Australia Says A$26 a Ton Carbon Price May Raise A$11.5 Billion

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-05-31T02:30:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/australia-says-a-26-a-ton-carbon-price-may-raise-a-11-5-billion.html
Australian climate-change adviser
 Ross Garnaut  says a carbon price of A$26 ($28) a metric ton may
raise about A$11.5 billion in the first year if planned laws
aimed at curbing emissions are introduced.  Three independent bodies should be established to implement
and administer carbon price arrangements, including advising on
future targets, Garnaut said in a report released today. Revenue
from the scheme should be directed to households, businesses and
international aid to tackle climate change, he said.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  wants to set a carbon price
starting July 2012 in preparation for a trading system that
could begin as early as 2015. Garnaut recommends between A$20
and A$30 a ton, rising 4 percent a year, before moving to a
flexible scheme that is internationally linked.  “One distinct advantage of reducing emissions through a
market-based carbon price is that it raises considerable
revenues,” Garnaut said. “These can be used to buffer the
transition to a low-carbon economy.”  A multiparty committee, formed after a request from the
Greens party, will recommend a strategy before the government
introduces laws to parliament. Climate Change Minister  Greg Combet  said May 29 on Channel 10 he expects to bridge
differences and complete details of a plan for a pollution tax
after a weekend of talks with lawmakers.  Australia , the world’s biggest  coal exporter , set a target
of generating 20 percent of its power from renewable sources
such as wind and solar by 2020. The Business Council of
Australia last week proposed an introductory price of A$10 a
ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  