-- 
Slowing Auto Sales Won’t Stop Big Year

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-05-31T10:30:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/auto-sales-slowing-won-t-prevent-biggest-year-since-2008-cars.html
U.S. auto sales probably ran at the
slowest pace of the year in May, a pause in demand before lower
gas prices and rebounding production in Japan fuels the most
annual purchases since 2008.  May light-vehicle deliveries, to be released tomorrow, may
have run at a 12.1 million seasonally adjusted annual rate, the
average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The pace
exceeded 13 million each of the last three months and was 12.6
million in January, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. are speeding returns
to normal production after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
idled factories and created shortages of parts. The slowdown in
May sales came about because limited supply of fuel-efficient
cars like Toyota's Prius lifted prices and curbed purchases.   “Consumers were being told so dramatically after Japan
that there’s going to be a shortage of cars, but this is going
to be a temporary situation and so many of them will just
wait,” said Alan Baum, principal of industry consultant Baum &
Associates, who predicts 13 million auto sales in the U.S. for
2011. “To the extent May is a reasonably poor month, I’m not
going to get carried away and say that’s going to transcend
through the rest of the year.”   U.S. sales of cars and light trucks may rise to 13 million 
this year, the average of 16 analysts’ estimates compiled by 
Bloomberg. That would be the most since 13.2 million in 2008.  Average U.S. gasoline prices dropped for 14 straight days
since May 11 to $3.80 a gallon for regular unleaded, according
to AAA. Prices earlier in May were at the highest level since
2008, reducing demand as the country’s vacation season started.  Lost Production  The earthquake in  Japan  may result in 3 million to 3.5
million units of global production that will be lost or deferred
into next year, according to researcher IHS Automotive.
Worldwide light-vehicle production may rise to 73.7 million
units this year from 71.9 million in 2010, according to IHS.  Toyota, which built 45 percent of its cars in Japan last
year, may lead declines among major automakers with a 27 percent
drop in May deliveries, the average of three estimates. Honda
Motor Co., the second-largest Japanese automaker by U.S. sales,
may say sales fell 25 percent, the average of three estimates.
Nissan Motor Co. deliveries may decrease 7.3 percent, the
average of three estimates.  “Predominantly this is a supply issue,” George Magliano,
a New York-based senior economist for IHS Automotive, said in a
telephone interview. “The auto market was developing
considerable momentum coming into this month before issues
related to Japan.”  Hyundai Benefits  Automakers benefiting from their Japan-based rivals’ supply
constraints may be led by  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) 
Their combined U.S. sales may pass Toyota for the first time,
according to  Santa Monica , California-based TrueCar.com.
Deliveries for Hyundai and Kia may surge 43 percent in May to
115,434, behind only  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
according to the auto pricing website.  Sales for Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, may have
dropped 0.5 percent, the average estimate of five analysts. Ford
raised its vehicle prices a third time this year by an average
of $124, or 0.4 percent per vehicle this month, said Todd Nissen, a spokesman.  Higher prices and smaller discounts may result in Dearborn,
Michigan-based Ford getting buyers to pay as much as $1,500 more
per vehicle,  Rod Lache , a New York-based analyst for Deutsche
Bank AG, said in a May 20 research note.  GM deliveries may rise 1.5 percent, the average of three
estimates. There are fewer estimates for GM sales this month
because some analysts are prevented from publishing research
after a lockup expired on the U.S. Treasury Department’s ability
to sell more of its shares.  Chrysler Gains  Chrysler, which repaid $7.6 billion in U.S. and Canadian
government loans during the month, may say sales increased 9.5
percent, the average of five estimates.  GM, the largest U.S. automaker, is struggling to sell down
truck inventory that climbed to more than 111 days of supply at
the end of April because its Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra
models are competing against recently updated Ford pickups, Baum
said.  “GM has a long-term problem until they’re able to update
those vehicles, because right now the Ford product is so much
more attractive,” said Baum, who is based in West Bloomfield,
Michigan. “For now, GM has to respond with incentives.”  While total sales may have dropped, Ford’s deliveries per
selling day may have increased from May 2010.  Barclays Capital 
estimates Ford daily sales rate, excluding year-earlier
purchases of its Volvo brand, may rise 10 percent, while Credit
Suisse Group AG predicts a 16 percent gain on that basis.  GM climbed 60 cents, or 2 percent, to $31.28 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading on May 27. Ford rose 4 cents to
$14.60.  Pricing, Incentives  GM this month offered rebates of as much as $4,505 as well
as interest-free financing for as long as 60 months on the
Silverado and Sierra, while offering no rebates on cars such as
its Chevrolet Cruze or Buick LaCrosse, according to AIS Rebates,
an  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based provider of incentive data.  Average prices for the industry may increase by about $800
from April, led by a sequential gain of about $1,500 by Japan-
based automakers,  Himanshu Patel , a New York-based analyst for
JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a May 24 research note.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker,  has said  it expects
production in  North America  to return to about 70 percent of
normal levels beginning in June, from about 30 percent in May.
Honda forecast last week that North American production will
return to 100 percent in August for all models except Civic
small cars, and said May 17 that global production will return
to normal before the end of the year.  Light-vehicle sales climbed to 11.6 million in 2010 from a
27-year low of 10.4 million in 2009. Deliveries still were 31
percent fewer than the 16.8 million annual average from 2000 to
2007, according to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata. A
12.1 million rate this month would be a 4.3 percent increase
from the 11.6 million pace in May 2010.  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from May 2010, unadjusted for the difference in selling
days. Forecasts for the seasonally adjusted annual rate, or
SAAR, are in millions of vehicles.  May had 24 selling days, two fewer than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 