-- 
Bahrain Warns Groups Before End of Emergency Rule Tomorrow

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-05-31T15:40:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/bahrain-warns-groups-before-end-of-emergency-rule-tomorrow-1-.html
Bahrain signaled it won’t allow anti-
government protests when the nationwide state of emergency ends
tomorrow.  The Ministry of Justice warned against “any type of
activities that could affect security or harm the national peace
and safety,” in a statement carried by the official  Bahrain
News Agency .  Bahrain’s Sunni Muslim king, Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa,
declared martial law in March, as his government sought to quell
Shiite Muslim-led demonstrations calling for more democracy and
civil rights after popular uprisings ousted leaders in Egypt and
 Tunisia . The ruling family also invited troops from Saudi Arabia
and other Gulf countries to help quell protests.  Mainly Shiite activists and youth movements are planning to
hold rallies tomorrow in villages “against the government and
troops in protest at violations of human rights,” Bahrain Youth
Society for Human Rights said in an e-mailed statement.  Crude prices have jumped almost 21 percent since unrest in
Bahrain began in mid-February. Crude oil for July delivery
climbed $2.69, or 2.7 percent, to $103.28 a barrel at 9:34 a.m.
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Dialogue  King Hamad called for talks on reform in the Gulf Arab
kingdom from July, the  Bahrain News Agency  said today, citing a
speech by the monarch. The king wants a “dialogue of national
consensus” and for talks to be held without preconditions, the
new service reported.  Police have arrested activists and doctors since protesters
were forced from their rallying point at the Pearl Roundabout in
Manama, the capital, on March 16. Security forces this month
arrested Mattar Ibrahim Ali Mattar and Jawad Fairoz, members of
al-Wefaq, the largest Shiite opposition party in the country.  Bahrain will hold elections on Sept. 24 to fill at least 18
vacant seats in parliament after al-Wefaq members resigned in
February to protest the government’s crackdown on pro-democracy
rallies. A second round of voting will take place on Oct. 1, the
Bahrain News Agency reported, citing Justice Minister Sheikh
Khalid bin Ali Al Khalifa.  Shiites make up about 70 percent of Bahrain’s population of
less than 1 million, and many retain cultural and family ties
with  Iran  as well as with Shiites in neighboring  Saudi Arabia .
Bahrain is home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 