-- 
BofA, UBS Ask New York’s Highest Court to Reinstate Lawsuit Against MBIA

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-06-01T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/banks-urge-new-york-s-highest-court-to-reinstate-mbia-lawsuit.html
New York ’s highest court was asked by
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and other institutions to
reinstate their lawsuit claiming that bond insurer MBIA Inc.’s
2009 restructuring was intended to defraud policyholders.  A lower-court decision throwing out the lawsuit improperly
blocked claims the banks could bring as creditors, their lawyer
told the New York State Court of Appeals at oral arguments
yesterday in  Albany .  Eric Dinallo , the state’s former insurance superintendent,
approved the split in 2009, allowing Armonk, New York-based MBIA
to move its guarantees on state and municipal bonds out of the
unit that insured some of Wall Street’s riskiest mortgage debt.
Robert Giuffra Jr., lead counsel for the banks, called the
action unprecedented.  “They did one of the biggest transactions in history in
secret,” Giuffra, a partner at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, said.
“There was no notice, no opportunity to be heard.”  Chief Judge Jonathan Lippman asked why the banks, which are
MBIA policyholders, shouldn’t be allowed to pursue their claims
under debtor-creditor law and whether it was fair that they
weren’t given notice of the approval of the restructuring by the
superintendent.  ‘Pure Fairness’  “On a pure fairness basis, does that sound right to you?”
Lippman asked  Marc Kasowitz , a lawyer for MBIA.  MBIA fell yesterday as the court heard the arguments,
reversing an earlier gain. The shares dropped 16 cents, or 1.8
percent, to close at $8.80 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading after climbing as high as $9.16.  Judge Robert S. Smith also questioned the lack of notice to
policyholders.  “Here we have people who never got to talk to the
agency,” he said. “They learned about this the same day
everybody else did, when the superintendent issued his
approval.”  MBIA argued that the only recourse the banks have is under
New York’s Article 78 statute, which allows court review of
state administrative decisions. A separate lawsuit under that
provision is pending.  “The key determination he made was that after this
restructuring was done, MBIA would be solvent,” he told the
court. “It would be able to pay all of the claims of its
policyholders as they came due. Solvency under the debtor-and-
creditor law and solvency under insurance law are precisely the
same.”  The banks said in court filings that the split transferred
$5 billion in cash and securities out of MBIA’s primary
operating unit, MBIA Insurance, to another entity, now known as
National Public Finance Guarantee Corp.  “There are no money damages until there are no payments on
claims,” Kasowitz said yesterday. “For the past two years,
this insurer has paid all claims as they’ve come due.”  The case is ABN Amro Bank NV v.  MBIA Inc. (MBI) , 601475-2009, New
York state  Supreme Court  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 