-- 
Bank of Ireland to Impose Up to 90% Losses on Bondholders

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-05-31T12:32:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/bank-of-ireland-imposes-90-losses-on-bondholders-in-cash-or-equity-deal.html
Bank of Ireland Plc will seek to
impose losses of as much as 90 percent on 2.6 billion euros
($3.7 billion) of subordinated debt as it offers bondholders an
exchange for cash or equity.  The lender, ordered to raise 5.2 billion euros of capital,
said in a statement it expects to offer to pay cash of 10
percent of nominal value for Tier 1 securities and 20 percent
for Tier 2 debt, with no settlement of accrued interest. The
Dublin-based bank said it may also offer an equity-swap
alternative at a premium to the cash offer with a payment of
accrued interest.  “We were expecting the terms of the offer to be bad, but
this is worse than expected,” said  Stephen Lyons , a fixed-
income analyst with Dublin-based securities firm Davy. “Another
approach would have to been to engage with subordinated
bondholders and not leave such a bad taste in the mouths,
particularly for investors that might take the equity
alternative, who the bank may wish to participate in a
subsequent share sale.”  Bank of Ireland’s 747 million euros of lower Tier 2 senior
subordinated 10 percent bonds due 2020 were quoted at 30 cents
on the euro, down from 52.5 cents, according to Jefferies
International Ltd.  Burden Sharing  “The bank understands that the government will take
whatever steps it considers necessary to maximize burden
sharing” of losses with subordinated bondholders, Bank of
Ireland said.  The lender also said the buyback will include a proposal
to amend the terms of the bonds to include giving it the option
to call the notes for cash at a price that would be “materially
less” than offered in the tender. Anglo Irish Bank Corp.
included a call at a level that wiped out holdouts in its
bondholder offer last year.  EBS Building Society, which must raise 1.5 billion euros,
said it’s offering to buy back 160 million euros and 30 million
British pounds of junior securities at discounts of 80 percent.
The Dublin-based lender said it will seek to pass an
extraordinary resolution amending terms of bonds so that
bondholders who refuse to take up the offer may be paid just 1
cent in the future for every $1,000 of debt held.  Bail Out  Ireland’s government, which has injected 46 billion euros
into its banks in the past two years, is seeking to share the
cost of bailing out the country’s lenders. The Irish central
bank in March ordered Bank of Ireland to raise 4.2 billion euros
of equity and 1 billion euros in contingent capital by the end
of July, to boost reserves and cover loan losses.  “The levels of burden-sharing” being sought “are the
minimum acceptable to the government,” Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said in a statement. If the debt exchange offers “fail
to deliver the expected core Tier 1 capital gains to each of the
banks, the government will take whatever steps are necessary”
under new laws introduced last year “to ensure that burden
sharing is achieved.”  The take up of Bank of Ireland’s junior bonds exchange
offer will determine how much needs to be raised from a share
sale. The government has promised to provide any capital the
bank cannot raise privately.  Irish Life   Separately, Irish Life & Permanent Plc, directed by
regulators to raise 4 billion euros, said it will buy back as
much as 840 million euros of subordinated liabilities, with the
discount of 80 percent applying to most of the securities.  One security will be discounted by as much as about 91
percent, the company said, adding “no payment in respect of
accrued interest” in relation to the debt will be paid.  On May 11,  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  said it would offer to
buy back junior debt at a discount of as much as 90 percent of
face value, after the government obtained a court order allowing
it to alter the terms of the bonds. The order is currently being
challenged by two New York-based investment firms Abadi & Co.
and Aurelius Capital Management LP. The case is set to be heard
by the Dublin-based  High Court  on June 2.  Bank of Ireland was down 9.8 percent at 17 euro cents at
12:15 p.m. in Dublin trading, having earlier fallen as much as
10.4 percent. Irish Life fell 1 euro cent to 12 cents.  Irish two-year government notes rose, sending the yield
down 71 basis points as of 12:49 p.m. in  London . The 10-year
bond yield dropped five basis points to 11.02 percent.  -- With assistance from Finbarr Flynn and Cormac Mullen in
Dublin and John Glover in London. Editors: Michael Shanahan,
Dara Doyle  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  