-- 
BAT Wins Australia Court Hearing on Plain Cigarette-Packaging Legislation

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-05-31T01:13:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/bat-wins-australia-court-hearing-on-plain-cigarette-packaging-legislation.html
British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ’s
Australian unit won an appeals court hearing in a bid to force
the government to turn over documents relating to a plan to
restrict cigarette sales to plain packages.  The Full Federal Court of Australia agreed to hear the
request, according to a letter from Judge Shane Marshall,
provided by British American Tobacco. No date has been set for
the hearing, the company said.  Parliament is set to vote on the law in the Australian
winter to limit cigarette packaging to plain dark-olive coloring
with pictorial health warnings instead of company logos, Health
Minister Nicola Roxon said last month. British American Tobacco
has sought the legal advice the government received on the plan
under  Australia ’s Freedom of Information Act and has been
denied, the company said.  British American Tobacco “suspects that Minister Roxon
hasn’t released the legal advice because it’s likely to
demonstrate her plain packaging laws are flawed,” the company
said in today’s statement.  Health Ministry officials didn’t respond to telephone and
e-mail requests for comment.  The Australian proposal is the first in the world aimed at
banning logos and color variations on cigarette packages.  New
Zealand ,  Canada  and the U.K. had considered the move but dropped
it out of concern it would be illegal, British American Tobacco
 said . The Australian proposal may infringe international
trademark and intellectual property laws, the tobacco company
said.  The name of the cigarette brand would be printed in a
uniform font at the bottom of the package. The legislation, if
passed in parliament, will take effect Jan. 1.  The government plans to spend more than A$10 million ($10.7
million) on legal fees fighting opposition to the proposal,
British American Tobacco said, citing documents obtained through
the FOI process.  The case is British American Tobacco Australia Ltd. v.
Secretary, Department of Health and Ageing. VID314/2011. Federal
Court of Australia ( Melbourne ).  Editors: Dave McCombs, Nicholas Wadhams  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  