-- 
Bayer, Yamaha, NYSE, Harley-Davidson: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-05-31T18:29:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/bayer-yamaha-harley-davidson-hot-springs-google-intellectual-property.html
Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s Bayer CropScience unit
enforced its European patent for imidacloprid against two
chemical suppliers in  Europe  and a Chinese manufacturer of a
generic version of the insecticide.  The U.K.’s Agropharm Ltd.,  Spain ’s Roots Ingenieros and
 Eastsun Chemical Co.  of  Shanghai  will pay cash compensation and
Bayer’s legal fees tied to enforcing the patent, the company
said in a  statement .  The nicotine-based chemical has been suspected of playing a
part in the decline in the number of honeybees. Italy suspended
the use of imidacloprid in 2008. This month, Canadian
agricultural officials approved the use of a Bayer CropScience
insecticide containing imidacloprid for soybean, potato, tomato
and cabbage growers,  according to  GrainNews, a Canadian
agricultural publication.  Imidacloprid is used by more than 100 companies to protect
140 different crops, Bayer said.  South Africa  Creates IP Office to Help Dispel Patenting Lag  Only 91 patents were issued in South Africa in 2010 in
contrast to the U.S., where 220,000 were issued,  according to 
that country’s BusinessDay publication.  South African companies “lack  intellectual property 
awareness or they can’t afford the minimum cost” of 35,000 rand
($5,057) to obtain a patent in that country, according to
BusinessDay.  South Africa’s Department of Science and Technology has
created a National Intellectual Property Management Office in
efforts to advance IP protections, the newspaper reported.  The office will provide subsidies to help applicants cover
the cost of patenting, according to BusinessDay.  Yamaha’s U.S. Patent Applications Point to 4-Wheel Motorcycle  Yamaha Motor Corp., which said May 18 it would expand U.S.
production of its all-terrain vehicles, may have plans to
introduce a four-wheel motorcycle in this country.  Two automotive news websites --  Autoblog.com  and
 ATVMagonline.com  -- report that recent Yamaha applications filed
with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office indicate the Japanese
company is seeking to protect a vehicle with parallel twin
engines.  According to the patent office database, Shizuoka, Japan-
based Yamaha has  3,161 published and pending applications  for
U.S. patents. The applications cover technologies related to
motor vehicles, boat engines, musical instruments and sound
reproduction.  Apple Seeks Patent for Solution to Exploding Battery Problem  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPad and the iPhone, filed an
application to patent a safety mechanism to prevent exploding
batteries.  According to Apple’s application  20110123844 , published in
the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on May 26,
the technology comprises a multiple layer pouch to enclose
lithium polymer batteries, such as those used in portable
electronic devices.  These batteries release gas when overheated or exposed to
sunlight. Without an escape valve, the gas can expand to explode
or start a fire.  The patent covers what Cupertino, California-based Apple
calls a “jelly roll” of layers that are wound together and
enclosed within a flexible pouch. When the battery within this
container releases gas and the pressure reached a certain
threshold, a hole is created to permit gas to escape.  Apple applied for the patent in November 2009.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  TPM Tells NYSE Trademark-Infringement Claim Is ‘Ridiculous’  The New York Stock Exchange registered a representation of
its trading floor as a trademark with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office in July 2002.  According to patent office files, the mark “ consists of a
representation of an actual building interior, namely, a
securities exchange trading floor.”  After the Talking Points Memo website ran a  story  about
 insider trading  in November and used a photo of the trading
floor, it received  a cease-and-desist letter  sent May 25 by
Kendra P. Goldenberg, chief counsel for NYSE Group Inc.  Goldenberg told TPM that the stock exchange holds federal
trademark rights on one depiction of the trading floor “and
common law rights on the trading floor viewed from virtually any
angle.” TPM’s use of the trading floor image tarnished the
stock exchange’s trademarks by associating it “with entities
and issues with which it is not affiliated or relevant,”
Goldenberg said.  Goldenberg demanded that TPM remove all images of its
trademark immediately and said that if the demand wasn’t
complied with inside 10 days from receipt of the letter “we
will have no choice by to pursue further remedies.”  In a  statement  posted on its website, New York-based TPM
responded that “we’ve been advised that the NYSE’s claims are
baseless and ridiculous on their face. But this is yet another
example of how many large corporations have given way to IP-
mania, trying to bully smaller companies into submission with
inane and legally specious claims of intellectual property
rights.”  TPM accompanied the statement with the same photo it used
for the insider-trading article, saying “we don’t like being
pushed around. So we’re again posting the same picture as an
illustration for this post.”  The publication said it will sponsor a contest asking
readers to say what they think “NYSE’s next preposterous claim
of intellectual property rights will be.” Best entries will be
published on the website, TPM said.  National Park Service Loses Hot Springs Trademark Challenge  The U.S. Department of the Interior’s National Park Service
lost a trademark challenge it made to the Advertising &
Promotion Commission of the City of Hot Springs,  Arkansas .  The park service had sought to cancel a city trademark
registered in 2003 that featured a diamond shape in which the
words “Hot Springs” is written, and below the diamond, the
phrase “National Park Arkansas.”  In its filings, the park service said it sought
cancellation because it was concerned the city would use the
mark “to advertise services that were not approved, endorsed,
or associated with the National Park Service.”  Additionally, the park service claimed the public was
likely to be confused about any possible affiliation between the
city and the park.  In its ruling released May 25, a trademark appeal board
said the park service failed to provide a valid reason for
cancellation.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Harley-Davidson Sued for Copyright Infringement by Artist  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG) , the largest U.S. motorcycle
manufacturer, was sued for copyright infringement by a Kentucky-
based artist.  Jeral Tidwell  of Louisville accused Harley-Davidson,
several sellers of Harley-Davidson merchandise and 99 unnamed
defendants of making unauthorized use of his “Car Skull” image
on a Harley-Davidson T-shirt.  In a separate complaint, he sued Painful Pleasures Inc., an
Owings, Maryland-based seller of body jewelry, and 99 more
unnamed defendants for using his “Flamin’ Card Suits” and
“Green Skull” images in buckle designs without authorization.
Tidwell’s artwork is used for rock concert posters, skateboard
designs and hot rods.  Tidwell filed his two suits in federal court in Louisville
May 25 and May 26. In both, he seeks orders barring unauthorized
use of his work, seizure of all infringing products and
promotional material, and awards of the defendants’ profits
attributable to the alleged infringement, as well as money
damages, litigation costs and attorney fees.  He is represented in both cases by  Kyle Anne Citrynell  and
 C. Shawn Fox  of  Seiller Waterman LLC  of Louisville.  Harley-Davidson didn’t respond immediately to e-mailed
requests for comment. Marc Gagnier, a spokesman for Painful
Pleasures, said in an e-mail today that his company doesn’t make
belt buckles.  “We just bought to resell,” Gagnier said. If “there are
copyright designs, obviously we would take them down, and advise
where we purchased them from,” he said.  The case against Harley-Davidson is Jeral Tidwell v.
Harley-Davidson Inc., 3:11-cv-00318-CRS, U.S. District Court,
Western District of  Kentucky  (Louisville). The case against the
Maryland company is Jeral Tidwell v. Painful Pleasures Inc.,
3:11-cv-00321, U.S. District Court, Western District of Kentucky
(Louisville).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Google Says It Respects Trade Secrets, Will Defend PayPal Suit  Google Inc. said it will defend itself against allegations
it hired a former PayPal Inc. executive as part of a play to
misappropriate trade secrets from PayPal’s mobile-payment
business.  “Silicon Valley was built on the ability of individuals to
use their knowledge and expertise to seek better employment
opportunities, an idea recognized by both  California  law and
public policy,” Aaron Zamost, a Google spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement. “We respect trade secrets, and will defend
ourselves against these claims.”  Osama Bedier, a former executive at  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal unit
and now at Google, stole PayPal’s confidential information, the
company said in the lawsuit filed May 26 in state court in  San
Jose , California. Stephanie Tilenius, another ex-PayPal
executive now at Google, violated contractual obligations by
recruiting Bedier, PayPal claimed.  Bedier “is now leading Google’s efforts to bring point-of-
sale technologies and services to retailers on its behalf,”
according to the complaint. “Bedier and Google have
misappropriated PayPal trade secrets by disclosing them within
Google and to major retailers.”  Both companies are trying to move into storefronts from
online transactions and build their mobile businesses. PayPal,
based in San Jose, is working with major retailers to develop a
new type of point-of-sale system -- the equipment next to cash
registers where consumers swipe credit cards.  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, unveiled two
services May 26 to let consumers pay merchants and download
coupons with a tap of their mobile phones.  PayPal also alleges that Bedier, who left the company in
January, discussed a job with Google while simultaneously
leading negotiations to make PayPal a payment option on Google’s
Android Market. He didn’t disclose the job-related talks, a
breach of his fiduciary duty, the company said.  Tilenius, who left EBay in 2009, was under contract not to
recruit employees, PayPal said in its pleadings. She messaged
Bedier on Facebook Inc.’s social-networking website, telling him
she had a “HUGE” opportunity for him, and sent him e-mails and
text messages offering advice while he interviewed for a
position, according to the complaint.  The case is PayPal v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 11CV201863, California
Superior Court, County of  Santa Clara  (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 