-- 
Billionaire Adani May Sell Stake in Asia-Pacific Mining Company in IPO

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 
2011-06-01T13:10:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/billionaire-adani-may-sell-20-holding-in-coal-mining-unit-in-london-ipo.html
Adani Enterprises Ltd. (ADE) , India’s
biggest coal importer, may sell shares in a unit that holds
mining rights in the Asia-Pacific region to international
investors and use the proceeds to add energy assets.  The Ahmedabad, India-based company may sell a stake of as
much as 20 percent in Adani Mining Ltd. in an initial public
offering in  London  within the next two years, said  Gautam Adani ,
billionaire chairman of  Adani Enterprises .  The Adani group wants to tap overseas investors keen to
benefit from rising power demand in India, the world’s fastest-
growing major economy after China. Adani is buying coal mines to
help feed the company’s $20 billion push to increase power
generating capacity 10-fold in the South Asian nation. The
company has mining rights in  Australia ,  Indonesia  and India.  An overseas listing will improve the company’s “capability
to raise funds for further fueling acquisitions,” Adani, 48,
said in an interview in Mumbai yesterday. “India will remain
energy hungry for the next 50 years.”  Adani declined to comment on the amount the company plans
to raise. Yanzhou Coal Mining Co., China’s fourth-largest
producer, may raise more than A$1 billion in an initial share
sale for at least a third of its Australian unit by the end of
the year, Ian McAleese, investor relations manager of Brisbane-
based Yancoal Australia Ltd., said in an e-mailed response on
May 24.  ‘Favorite’ Stock  “There in an appetite to invest in resource companies but
that appetite may not be there if we get more bad economic news
from  Europe  or  North America  or a slowdown in  China ,”  David
Brennan , an analyst at Daiwa Capital Markets in  Melbourne , said
by phone today. “I would say sooner than later would be
better.”  Adani Enterprises fell 0.4 percent to 635.9 rupees at the
3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The shares have gained 19 percent in
the past year compared with a 12.3 percent increase in the
benchmark Sensitive Index.  Adani Enterprises is among Morgan Stanley’s “favorite”
stocks that can potentially double in three years, analysts led
by India Managing Director Ridham Desai said in a report
yesterday.  Adani, who dropped out from school after finishing his 10th
grade, is India’s sixth-richest man with $10 billion of assets,
according to Forbes magazine.  Blackouts  The Adani group’s generating unit  Adani Power Ltd. (ADANI)  expects
to produce 20,000 megawatts of electricity by 2020, up from
2,000 megawatts. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  aims to add
120,000 megawatts of power by 2017 to reduce blackouts and plug
a deficit of 10.5 percent during peak hours that threatens to
scuttle economic development.  The group is also planning to sell bonds overseas to help
fund its investments, Adani said. Adani Enterprises plans to
invest $4 billion to boost output at its Australian mine to 60
million metric tons by 2019 after production starts in 2014, he
said. Coal reserves at the mine purchased from  Linc Energy Ltd. (LNC) 
may be at around 10 billion tons, said Adani.  The company purchased the asset from Linc Energy for A$3
billion, including royalty payments over 20 years.  Coal Transport  “The company will need to make a lot of investments to
integrate mining and logistics” to produce low-cost electricity
in India, said Alex Mathews, head of research at  Geojit BNP
Paribas Financial Services Ltd. (GBNP)  Still, buying coal assets is a
good strategy “in the long term,” he said.  To ship the coal from its Australian mine, Adani
Enterprises’ port unit today paid A$1.83 billion ($2 billion) to
operate the Abbot Point terminal in the nation’s Queensland
state.  The company in October said it has won rights to mine as
much as 110 million tons of coal in India. Adani Mining has
identified 140 million tons of coal mine reserves in East
Kalimantan in Indonesia, according to its website. The company
is also exploring more options in Australia and  South Africa ,
according to the website.  Adani’s group is targeting to produce 200 million tons of
coal a year by 2020, while its port business may process 200
million tons of cargo in the same period.  Oil & Gas  The company is also looking to acquire oil and gas assets
overseas, Adani said. Adani Welspun Exploration Ltd., a venture
with Welspun Gujarat Stahl Rohren Ltd., has found energy in
 India , Adani said without giving details.  To meet its targets, the Adani group expects to almost
triple the number of employees to 25,000 by 2020, which will
include 5,000 workers in Australia by 2014, Adani, who started
his business in 1988, said.  Demand for coal from power and steel producers has spurred
companies to seek energy assets worldwide, with deals worth $43
billion announced in the past year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  India competes with China to secure supplies of coal, which
is used for more than half the South Asian nation’s electricity
generation capacity. India’s coal deficit may triple over the
next five to seven years, a local unit of Moody’s Investors
Service said in a report in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  