-- 
BlackRock’s Fink More Bullish on U.S. Stocks Than Bonds as Dollar Weakens

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 
2011-05-31T05:01:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/blackrock-s-fink-more-bullish-on-u-s-stocks-than-bonds-as-dollar-weekens.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Chief Executive
Officer Laurence D. Fink said he’s more bullish on U.S. equities
than bonds because companies are benefiting from the weak dollar
and have surplus cash to invest for growth.  “We love equities, we love dividend stocks,” Fink said in
a Bloomberg Television interview today in Hong Kong. “You own
Treasuries because you’re worried about the world and the future,
but if you believe the world is a good place to invest for the
long cycle, you have to be in equities.”  Fink, one of the co-founders of BlackRock in 1988, built
what is now the world’s biggest asset manager through
acquisitions including the purchase in December 2009 of Barclays
Global Investors. He said in a March 3 interview that he’s a
“big buyer” of the  U.S. dollar , doesn’t see a “ bear market ”
in bonds and would buy Treasuries if yields rise above 4 percent.  The 10-year Treasury yield was little changed at 3.08
percent as of 12:04 p.m. in  Tokyo , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The rate slid to 3.0516 percent earlier today in
 Asia , matching the lowest level this year. Yields will advance
to 3.84 percent by year-end, according to a Bloomberg survey of
financial companies, with the most recent forecasts given the
heaviest weightings.  “If you just could get a 4 percent growth in equity
markets and a 3.5 percent dividend, you’re earning 7.5 percent,
basically approaching what your liabilities are,” Fink said
today. “Global liabilities are anywhere from 7.5 percent to 8
percent and you can’t earn your liabilities earning 3.5 percent
in 10-year Treasuries.”  Pimco’s View  Fink said he “would not be surprised” to see 10-year
Treasuries yielding between 3.5 percent to 3.6 percent by the
end of the year.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., is increasing his bet against
 U.S. government debt . Pimco’s $241 billion Total Return Fund had
minus 4 percent of its assets in government and related debt at
the end of April, versus negative 3 percent in March.  Cash and equivalents accounted for 37 percent of holdings,
the largest component, the  Newport Beach , California-based
company said in a portfolio holdings statement on its  website .
Pimco’s Total Return Fund can have a so-called negative position
by using derivatives, futures or by shorting. Shorting is
borrowing and selling an asset in anticipation of making a
profit by buying it back after its price has fallen.  Europe ’s Woes  Europe’s financial problems aren’t confined to  Greece  and a
reorganization of the continent’s banking system is necessary,
Fink also said in the interview. Europe is going to need a
“giant TARP,” Fink said, referring to the Troubled Asset
Relief Program that the U.S. introduced to rescue financial
firms. BlackRock advised the  Federal Reserve  on illiquid debt
portfolios during the height of the financial crisis.  Futures on the  S&P 500  indicate shares may extend a three-
day rally when markets resume trading today after yesterday’s
Memorial Day holiday in the U.S. The gauge dropped in each of
the last four weeks, the longest losing streak since February
2010. U.S. economic data this week is forecast to show the
increase in U.S. payrolls this month slowed from April and the
 Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index likely fell to
the lowest level since October.  “The private sector truly is benefiting from the weak
dollar, but still has $2.5 trillion in cash,” Fink said. “U.S.
companies are stronger today than they ever have been. Their
balance sheets are robust as ever and they’re starting to put
that money to work.”  Public Sector  If the U.S. government were to reduce its deficit by $4
trillion over a 10-year period, economic growth would slow by 1
percent per annum, Fink said, adding he sees no evidence for
more quantitative easing.  “And so what I’ve told Democrats and Republicans in
 Washington  is that for the first time, the public sector is not
going to be the growth engine,” he said. “The public sector
will be a destroyer of growth and for the U.S. to grow above
trend, the partnership between government and business is even
more important. The private sector has the energy and the
financial wherewithal to grow above trend.”  BlackRock , which manages about $3.65 trillion in its stock,
bond and  hedge funds , as well as its iShares exchange-traded
funds, began as a fixed-income firm. In 2005, it bought State
Street Research & Management to add more stock, real estate and
hedge funds. In 2006, it purchased Merrill Lynch & Co.’s money-
management unit and in 2008 it acquired a division of Quellos
Group LLC to add hedge-fund assets.  Its $15.2 billion purchase of  Barclays Global Investors  in
2009 was its largest transaction and added passive funds such as
ETFs to its active stock and bond strategies.  Asia Plans  Fink said BlackRock had “huge plans” to grow in Asia.  “Asia is one of our key growth elements over the next
three to four years,” he said. “We’ve made a strong living
through the exportation of dollar-based assets here to Asia. I
believe our future will be much more towards the managing of
local-currency products.”  As policy makers in Beijing curb lending, “more and more
Chinese companies are going to the corporate  bond market . We’re
going to be the beneficiary as those capital markets grow,”
Fink said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Rishaad Salamat in  Hong Kong  at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net ;
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  