-- 
Blackstone-Backed BankUnited Said to Be Near Deal to Buy Herald National

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-05-31T21:28:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/blackstone-backed-bankunited-said-to-be-near-deal-to-buy-herald-national.html
BankUnited Inc., the lender backed by
Blackstone Group LP and  Carlyle Group , is nearing an agreement
to buy New York-based  Herald National Bank (HNB) , said a person with
direct knowledge of the matter.  A deal may be announced as soon as this week, said the
person, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the
discussions are private. Herald National had a market value of
about $36 million as of May 27. Talks could still break down.  The takeover would help fulfill BankUnited’s ambition of
entering the  New York  market, where Chief Executive Officer John Kanas spent most of his career. Kanas told investors when he
took  Miami Lakes , Florida-based BankUnited public in January
that he was seeking a New York expansion. He ran Melville, New
York-based North Fork Bancorporation for about 20 years before
selling it to  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  in 2006.  BankUnited has about 80 branches, all of them in Florida.
The lender said in regulatory filings last year that it would
have a competitive advantage in New York because the company’s
executives once “managed one of the most successful regional
banks in the market.”  Herald National jumped 80 cents, or 27 percent, to $3.79 at
4:15 p.m. on the NYSE Amex. BankUnited rose 59 cents to $28.36.  Kanas and another executive are subject to non-compete
agreements through August 2012 meant to keep them from being
able to operate in New York, according to last year’s filings.
The purchase of Herald National would be structured in a way
that complies with those terms and may be made through a unit of
BankUnited, the person said.  New York Branches  Spokeswomen for Herald National and BankUnited didn’t
return calls seeking comment.  Adding Herald National would give BankUnited three New York
branches, in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Melville. The commercial
bank had $501 million of assets as of March 31, compared with
$10.8 billion for BankUnited.  Herald National was founded in 2008 by investment firms and
Daniel Healy, a former North Fork chief financial officer. The
bank is currently run by Raymond Nielsen, who sold his Reliance
Bancorp to North Fork in 2000 and was later on the North Fork
board of directors.  Kanas and a group of private-equity investors including
Carlyle and Blackstone bought BankUnited, a collapsed  Florida 
lender, in 2009, pumping in $900 million of fresh capital and
entering into a loss-sharing agreement with the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  