-- 
Blair, CIC’s Lou to Debate China Global Role

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-05-31T03:47:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/blair-cic-s-lou-to-debate-china-global-role-at-jpmorgan-forum.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  tapped  Lou Jiwei ,
head of China’s $332 billion sovereign wealth fund, and former
U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair to kick off a three-day forum
in Beijing tomorrow on China’s changing role in the world.  Lou’s China Investment Corp. helped the nation become the
world’s second-biggest buyer of resource companies. As China
ventures abroad to sustain the world’s fastest economic growth,
how the government meets the political and diplomatic challenges
that this expansion presents will be a key issue for investors,
said  Jing Ulrich , the New York-based firm’s chairman of global
markets for China.  “China’s foreign policy in the past has really been: we
want to focus internally and we’re not going to bother anyone
else, so you shouldn’t bother us,” said  Shaun Rein , managing
director of China Market Research Group, a Shanghai-based
adviser on geopolitical and economic risk. “That policy might
have to change. They can’t fly under the radar anymore.”  As prime minister, Blair sent  more troops  to fight overseas
than any U.K. leader since World War II in a foreign policy that
won kudos from the U.S. and proved divisive at home. Now  Middle
East envoy  for the U.S.,  Europe ,  Russia  and the  United Nations ,
Blair’s experience makes his views on the geopolitical
environment in which an emergent China will operate valuable,
Ulrich said.  Blair has been a senior adviser to JPMorgan since 2008.  China’s high nominal growth rates -- averaging 10 percent a
year for the past three decades -- are now translating into a
sizable business in absolute terms for global investment banks.
China’s companies have announced $162 billion of natural-
resources acquisitions since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The U.S. accounted for $357 billion, and third-placed
 Canada  $158 billion.  Resources Dominate  Heads of natural-resource companies account for six of the
13 keynote speakers at the firm’s seventh annual China
conference. Luo Jianchuan, president of Aluminum Corp. of China,
the nation’s leading producer of the metal, Greg Boyce from the
biggest U.S. coal producer,  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , and Donald Lindsay from U.S. mining company Teck Resources Ltd., in which
CIC has invested, are among them.  JPMorgan’s advisory and underwriting fees from China jumped
more than 80 percent last year, said Fang Fang, chief executive
officer of investment banking in the country. The country was
JPMorgan’s biggest source of investment-banking revenue in the
Asia-Pacific region for the first time.  China’s rising economic wealth is already translating to a
bigger role in the global financial infrastructure, with the
country  winning  more votes on the  International Monetary Fund 
and taking part in the Group of 20 leading nations.  Scaling Up  China will account for one-third of the forecast 4.3
percent global growth this year, according to Robert Subbaraman,
Hong Kong-based chief economist for Asia at Nomura Holdings Inc.  “ China  is increasingly a bigger part of the global economy
and political affairs, whether you like it or not,” said Fang,
the only Wall Street banker to sit on the government’s China
People’s Political Consultative Committee. “You’ve have to have
a new strategy and a new mindset, and a new troop of people to
address those increasing demands from other nations.”  Since December 2008, China’s navy has joined international
efforts to stem Somali pirate attacks in the Indian Ocean in the
longest and furthest deployment from the country’s shores in
modern history.  Still, the growing clout has also created friction, with
disputes over territorial claims flaring up into clashes and
diplomatic spats with  Japan ,  Vietnam  and the  Philippines  over
the past year.  Korea, Myanmar  China’s continued support for countries such as North Korea
and Myanmar has also been an irritant in its relations with the
U.S. North Korean leader Kim Jong Il and Myanmar President Thein Sein both visited China last week.  China, accounted for 83 percent of North Korea’s $4.2
billion of international commerce in 2010, up from 70 percent in
2009, according to the Seoul-based Korea Trade-Investment
Promotion Agency.  Concerns that much of China’s increased clout, including
the $3 trillion in reserve assets, more than double the amount
held by Japan, is driven by the trade advantages it gets from
keeping its currency artificially weak.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said last year
that a bigger say at the IMF should see increased
“responsibilities” in the global economy, a hint at China to
accelerate currency appreciation.  More than 2,100 institutional investors, representing $15
trillion in assets under management, from over 30 countries will
attend the “Ascending New Heights” China conference in Beijing
on June 1-3, Ulrich said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  