-- 
Bloomberg Link to Host Conference on Rebuilding Japan

-- B y  
-- 
2011-05-31T15:22:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/bloomberg-link-to-host-conference-on-rebuilding-japan.html

Press Release  Features Leading Experts on  Japan , Including Naoyuki Shinohara,
Deputy Managing Director, IMF; J. Kyle Bass of Hayman Capital
Management; and Greenpeace Founder Patrick Moore  NEW YORK -- In the aftermath of the March 11th disaster that
paralyzed Japan and sent it reeling into recession, Bloomberg
LINK will gather authorities on Japan, leading investors,
economists, policymakers and business executives to discuss how
it can recover and rebuild at the Bloomberg Japan Conference.  The Conference, to be held on Tuesday, June 7th at the Japan
Society in  New York City , will focus on how Japan will finance
its reconstruction; how it will deal with debt, deflation and an
aging demographic to combat recession; and the opportunities and
risks for investors as it attempts to rebuild once again.
Speakers will also debate the future of nuclear energy and the
large-scale insurance issues presented by this year’s disaster.  “Global investors are ready to embrace Japan as it rebuilds
itself,” said Robert Bierman, head of Bloomberg LINK.
“Participants at this conference will gain a better
understanding as to how they can participate in the rebuilding
process and gain perspective on the country’s path ahead.”  Key speakers include:  -Ambassador Shigeyuki Hiroki, Consul-General of Japan,  New York   -J. Kyle Bass, Managing Partner, Hayman Capital Management, LP  -Naoyuki Shinohara, Deputy Managing Director,  International
Monetary Fund   -Kiichiro Sato, President, JETRO  -Naomi Fink, Head of Japan Strategy, Jefferies Japan Limited  -Patrick Moore, Chair and Chief Scientist, Greenspirit
Strategies Ltd.; Founding Member, Greenpeace; Author,
Confessions of a Greenpeace Dropout  -Peter Hearn, Chairman, Willis Re  -Hugh Patrick, Director, Center on Japanese Economy and
Business,  Columbia Business School   The conference is being sponsored by Chartis.  For more information on the program and speakers, please visit:
 http://www.bloomberglink.com/japan . Follow us on  Facebook ,
 LinkedIn  and Twitter ( @BBGLINK ). The hashtag for this event is
#BBJapan.  For more information on Bloomberg, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/about .  About Bloomberg LINK
Bringing the power of Bloomberg to the executive conference
business, Bloomberg LINK produces invitation-only, in-person
gatherings that combine world-class editorial programming with
peer-to-peer networking amongst the who’s who in influential
communities. In this environment, participants engage in open
discussions that lead to learning from each other’s expertise
and experience. For more information, please visit
www.bloomberglink.com.  About Bloomberg
Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:
Jessica Turtletaub, +1 212-617-8476,  jturtletaub@bloomberg.net 
