-- 
Brazil to Sell Airports in Sao Paulo, Brasilia to Host World Cup, Olympics

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-05-31T22:56:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/brazil-to-sell-airports-in-sao-paulo-brasilia-to-host-world-cup-olympics.html
Brazil ’s government will sell
controlling stakes at airports in  Sao Paulo , Campinas and
Brasilia as it seeks to prepare  Latin America ’s biggest economy
to host the 2014 World Cup and the 2016 Olympic Games.  The private companies that win the auctions will be
responsible for the expansion of theses airports and for
managing them, the Presidency said in a statement posted on its
 website .  Infraero, the state-owned airport operator, will hold no
more than 49 percent of Guarulhos airport in Sao Paulo, the
Viracopos airport in Campinas and the Presidente Juscelino
Kubitschek airport in Brasilia, the statement said. The rules
governing the auctions will be published in December, Sports
Minister Orlando Silva said.  “We decided that it’s necessary to further speed up the
preparations for the  World Cup ,” Silva told reporters in
Brasilia today. “We expect foreign companies to join in the
management of the airports.”  The Sports Ministry expects that the 12 cities hosting
World Cup games will need investment of 23.8 billion reais ($15
billion) to prepare for the event, according to a January
report, while airports will require 5.6 billion reais.  Brazil is boosting infrastructure spending as it prepares
to host the World Cup and Olympics, develops new  oil fields  and
builds new dams.  Expenditures to improve airports, ports, highways and the
power grid are set to rise to 160 billion reais by 2012 from 121
billion reais in 2009, according to the Sao Paulo-based
Association of Infrastructure and Industries.  The government is still considering selling stakes at the
Confins airport, Minas Gerais state, and Galeao in  Rio de
Janeiro , the Presidency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  