-- 
Brazil Interest-Rate Futures Fall on Industrial Output Drop; Real Advances

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-05-31T22:03:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/brazil-interest-rate-futures-fall-on-industrial-output-drop-real-advances.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts fell for a fifth day after lower-than-forecast
industrial output fueled bets that inflation will ease.  The yield on the contract due in January 2013 dropped five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 12.48 percent at 5:22
p.m.  New York  time. The five consecutive days of declines in the
yield is the longest streak since the period ended Aug. 16. The
yield dropped 18 basis points in May, its biggest monthly tumble
since August. The real gained 0.9 percent to 1.5801 per dollar,
paring its monthly decline to 0.3 percent.  Industrial production contracted 2.1 percent in April from
March, the most since 2008, surprising analysts who had forecast
an expansion. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 35
analysts called for a 0.2 percent increase. Production fell 1.3
percent from a year ago, the national statistics agency said in
 Rio de Janeiro .  “It was low overall,”  Newton Rosa , chief economist at Sul
America Investimentos, said in a telephone interview from  Sao
Paulo . “Perhaps there isn’t a need for much higher interest
rates” as the central bank signaled in the minutes of its April
policy meeting, he said.  Thirteen of 27 industries surveyed posted output declines
in April. Production of capital goods, a barometer of
investment, fell 2.9 percent after expanding 7.7 percent in the
first quarter.  Selic Rate  Policy makers led by central bank President Alexandre Tombini will boost the benchmark Selic rate by 75 basis points
to 12.75 percent by December, trading in futures contracts show.
They have increased borrowing costs by 125 basis points this
year.  The real earlier rose as much as 1.2 percent to 1.5755 per
dollar, the highest level since May 2 when it reached 1.5693.
The currency has strengthened 2.8 percent over the past week.  All 25 emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
gained against the dollar amid speculation nations will pledge
more aid to  Greece  to help alleviate its debt problems. The euro
rose to a three-week high against the dollar.  European Union leaders will decide on additional aid for
the country by the end of June and have ruled out a “total
restructuring” of the nation’s debt,  Jean-Claude Juncker , head
of the group of euro-area finance ministers, said yesterday in
Paris.  ‘Positive External Backdrop”  “Overall you have a positive external backdrop,” Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a currency strategist at RBS Securities Inc.
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “Risk
assets in general are doing well.”  Foreign currency flows into  Brazil  totaled $8.3 billion in
the first 20 days of May, from $1.5 billion in the whole of
April, the central bank said May 25.  While flows serve as an “amplifier” for the real, the
euro’s movement is the primary driver behind the Brazilian
currency’s appreciation today, said Ram Bala Chandran, a Latin
American currency and rates analyst at Citigroup Inc. in New
York.  The real extended gains after the central bank said it for
a second time today rejected all bids in an auction of reverse
currency swaps. In reverse swaps, the central bank pays
investors the overnight  interbank rate  in reais, currently 11.85
percent, in exchange for a fixed interest rate in dollars, or
cupom cambial.  Policy makers also said they twice bought dollars in the
spot currency market today, first at 1.5825 reais and then at
1.5780 each. The central bank holds reverse swap auctions and 
buys dollars to stem gains in the real, which has appreciated 
25 percent in the past two years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  