-- 
Brazil’s Industrial Output Fell By Most Since 2008, Surprising Economists

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-05-31T14:57:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/brazil-s-industrial-output-fell-by-most-since-2008-surprising-economists.html
Brazil’s industrial production fell
in April by the most since 2008 after policy makers raised
borrowing costs, surprising analysts who had expected output to
expand in  Latin America ’s biggest economy.  Industrial production fell 2.1 percent from March, a
performance worse than all 35 analysts predicted in a Bloomberg
survey whose median estimate was for a 0.2 percent increase.
Output fell 1.3 percent from a year earlier, the national
statistics agency said in Rio de Janeiro.  Thirteen of 27 industries surveyed saw output shrink.
Production of machinery fell 5.4 percent in April, reversing
four consecutive months of growth, while assembly lines churned
out 10.1 percent fewer white goods and appliances. Output of
capital goods, a barometer of investment, fell 2.9 percent after
expanding 7.7 percent in the first quarter.  “What we didn´t expect was this deceleration in durable
consumer goods and investment,” said  Roberto Padovani , chief
economist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA, in a telephone
interview.  The decline in factory output may help President Dilma Rousseff in her fight against inflation, which has relied on a
mix of spending cuts, higher  interest rates  and measures to curb
credit growth. Today she said that an end to a global rally in
commodity prices is leading to a strong decline in inflation
without jeopardizing economic growth.  Less Pressure  It may also ease pressure on the central bank, which last
month said it would raise borrowing costs for a “sufficiently
long” time to bring inflation back to the 4.5 percent target in
2012. Consumer prices though mid-May jumped 6.51 percent, above
the upper limit of the bank’s target range for the first time
since 2005.  “All the items fell across the board,” said  Newton Rosa ,
chief economist for Sul America Investimentos in  Sao Paulo ,
which manages 20 billion reais ($12.6 billion) in assets.
“Maybe there won´t be such a necessity for so many rate hikes
as the central bank signaled in its minutes.”  Policy makers are expected to push the overnight rate up 50
basis points to 12.50 percent by year-end, according to a
central bank survey taken May 27.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013 slipped four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 12.49 percent at 9:46 a.m. New York time. The real
strengthened 0.8 percent to 1.5820 per U.S. dollar.  April’s decline in production was the biggest since a 12.2
percent contraction in December 2008, following the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The statistics agency raised to
1.1 percent from 0.5 percent its estimate of output growth in
March.  Trade Deficit  While attempting to cool the economy, Rousseff’s
administration is also trying to prevent manufacturers from
losing competitiveness as a stronger real makes it cheaper to
import cars, electronics and other goods.  Brazil  will post a trade deficit in manufactured goods of
$100 billion this year, up from $71 billion in 2010, the Sao
Paulo Industrial Federation estimates. The real has rallied 46
percent since the start of 2009, more than 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg except Australia’s dollar. Brazil may
expand tax cuts on books to electronic book readers according to
a bill approved May 17 by a Senate committee.  The government is also providing incentives for technology
firms to establish operations here.  Foxconn Technology Group, which makes  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
and  Dell Inc. (DELL)  computers, is holding talks with the government to
expand their manufacturing in Brazil, Rousseff said during her
trip to  China  in April.  Tax Breaks  In addition to Foxconn, Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.,
 Samsung Electronics Co Ltd (005930) , and  ZTE Corp (763)  are among the companies
that can benefit from tax breaks, Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo  said May 16.  The fastest economic growth in two decades last year, a 20
percent expansion in credit and near-full employment is
prompting carmakers to increase production as demand surges.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  plans to boost production and add models in
Brazil to challenge  Fiat SpA (F)  for the leading position in the
country. Auto sales rose 29 percent to 148,900 in the first half
of May, Brazil’s National Federation of Automotive Vehicle
Distributors said in Sao Paulo on May 17. For the year, sales
are up 5 percent.  “Competition in Brazil is intense and we expect it will
become even more intense in the future,” Thomas Schmall, head
of VW’s Brazilian operations, said in a March 24 interview.  Auto sales in the country will advance 40 percent by the
end of 2016 to 3.6 million vehicles annually, according to
industry researcher IHS Automotive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  