-- 
Brazilian Barbecue Cheaper in U.S. Shows Strong Real Takes Toll

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-05-31T03:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/brazilian-barbecue-cheaper-in-u-s-shows-strong-real-takes-toll.html
Meat lovers in Washington craving
traditional Brazilian barbecue will pay less for it than fellow
carnivores in Brasilia. The cheaper check shows that  Latin
America ’s biggest economy is losing what its leaders have called
a “currency war.”  An all-you-can-eat dinner at Brazilian steakhouse  Fogo de
Chao  goes for $3.25 more at the chain’s Brasilia outpost than at
its Pennsylvania Avenue branch. Before the real’s 45 percent
rally against the dollar since the start of 2009, the same meal
at today’s prices would have cost $14.70 less in Brasilia.  Brazil’s fastest economic growth in two decades and
quickening inflation have made Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and
Brasilia more expensive than any city in the U.S., according to
a survey by ECA International, a London-based human resource
company. While Brazilians have reveled in the purchasing power
of what Goldman Sachs Group Inc. calls the world’s most
overvalued currency, it has made life tougher for local
companies competing with imports.  “Today, costs are higher in  Brazil  than in the U.S. to
open a new business,” said Arri Coser, the 49-year-old former
waiter who co-founded Fogo de Chao with his older brother Jair.
“A few years ago, my cost of meat per meal in Brazil was one-
third what it was in the U.S. Now it’s the same.”  Trade Deficit  Among the Brazilian industries most affected by the
currency gains are shoes, textiles and furniture. The strong
real will cause a $100 billion deficit in the trade of
manufactured goods this year, up from $71 billion in 2010, Paulo Skaf, head of the  Sao Paulo Industrial Federation , said May 23.  Under the motto “The Gaucho Way of Preparing Meat,” the
Coser brothers, who own a majority stake in the chain, oversaw
the opening of 16 Fogo de Chao affiliates across the U.S. since
their debut in  Dallas  14 years ago. In Brazil, the world’s
biggest beef exporter, they’ve opened six eateries since 1979.  Fogo de Chao means ”fire on the ground,” and refers to
the traditional way of cooking meat on a spit over a flame in
the southern region of Brazil. The method pays homage to the
region’s gauchos, cowboys who used to roam vast plains in
Argentina and Brazil.  The restaurant chain’s revenue rose 12 percent last year to
$170 million, Coser said. In 2006, Sao Paulo-based private
equity firm  GP Investimentos  spent $64 million to buy a 40
percent stake in the company, according to the fund’s website.
It now owns 35 percent of the business.  Better Opportunity  With a per capita income four times higher than Brazil’s,
the U.S. still offers a better opportunity for expansion, Coser
said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. He is preparing to
open two more restaurants in the U.S., in  Las Vegas  and  Orlando ,
and just one in Brazil, in Rio.  While Coser declined to detail his labor costs, U.S.
workers typically earn more than Brazilians do. The mean monthly
U.S. wage in May was $3,701, according to Labor Department
figures, while the average Brazil wage was the equivalent of
$955, according to the national statistics agency.  Brazilians’ purchasing power is growing as poverty
declines. During President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s eight
years in office, from 2003 to 2010, 36 million Brazilians rose
into the middle class.  Big Mac Index  Still, near record-low unemployment is fueling demand for
everything from dining out to bikini waxing. That in turn is
pressuring inflation, as service prices rose 8.57 percent in the
year through April, the fastest pace in at least 15 years,
according to the central bank.  McDonald’s Corp.’s flagship sandwich cost last year $5.26
in Brazil compared with $3.71 in the U.S., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg from The Economist’s Big Mac index. The
burger in Brazil is at its priciest since at least 1998 and is
the fourth most expensive among 31 major economies tracked by
the London-based magazine, after Norway ($7.20), Switzerland
($6.78), and Sweden ($6.56).  The cost of living in Rio,  Sao Paulo  and Brasilia surpassed
 New York  in 2010, according to ECA International. Rio’s ranking
among the world’s most expensive cities rose to 19 last year
from 51 in 2009, and Sao Paulo rose to 26 from 71. New York
climbed to 39 from 60, while Brasilia leaped to 30 from 70.
Brazil’s gross domestic product grew 7.5 percent last year, and
the government of President  Dilma Rousseff , who took office Jan.
1, forecasts growth of 4.5 percent in 2011. Brazil’s benchmark
stock index is down 7.7 percent in 2011, compared with a 5.8
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index.  Manufacturers Suffer  Partly because service providers don’t face competition
from imports, prices in that sector are rising faster than
broader inflation, which reached 6.51 percent in mid-May.  Manufacturers, on the other hand, have suffered. Since
2003, the real has rallied 122 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
and 74 percent against the Chinese yuan, the biggest gain amid
25 developing nations tracked by Bloomberg.  Cheap imports led shoemaker Vulcabras Azaleia SA to close
earlier this month its plant in Parobe, in the southern state of
 Rio Grande  do Sul, according to a May 13 company filing to the
securities regulator. The company laid off 800 of its 42,000
employees, cutting output by 3 percent, or 8,000 pairs a day.  Brazil is stepping up measures to protect industry from the
strong real. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  tripled a tax on
capital inflows in October. Under Rousseff, he’s also increased
taxes on foreign loans three times and the central bank stepped
up intervention in the  currency market  to contain the real’s
gains.  Mantega in September said that countries were competitively
devaluing their exchange rates in a global currency war, and
since then, other Brazilian leaders including Lula and Rousseff
have adopted the term.  Money Pours In  The pressure on the real is being fueled by foreign
currency inflows that have reached $45.9 billion so far this
year, nearly double the $24.4 billion for all of 2010. Brazil’s
real interest rate, the highest in the Group of 20 nations, has
helped attract investment.  Mantega’s failure to stem gains in the real is handing
investors in Brazilian bonds the best returns in Latin America
this year. Real-denominated notes returned 11.6 percent in
dollar terms this year, compared with 8.3 percent for local
bonds from the region, according to the JPMorgan Chase & Co.
index data.  Yields on Brazilian fixed-rate bonds due in 2013 surged 92
basis points, or 0.92 percentage point, in the past nine months
as inflation expectations have risen.  Bigger Challenge  Learning to live with a stronger real is a bigger challenge
for Rousseff than controlling inflation,  Gray Newman , chief
Latin America economist at Morgan Stanley in New York, said in a
phone interview.  “Currency war is not just a clever slogan,” Newman said.
“The strong real has been incredibly positive for Brazil’s
demand; it is at a very destructive level for Brazilian
production.”  For the owner of Fogo de Chao, it’s a blessing.  “The strong real helps my business,” says Coser. “I
import wine and olive oil. I buy beef from Uruguay and
 Argentina , and lamb from  Chile  and  New Zealand .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  