-- 
Businesses Expand Less Than Forecast, Chicago Index Shows

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-05-31T14:27:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/business-activity-slows-more-than-forecast-chicago-index-shows.html
Business activity in the U.S. cooled
more than forecast in May, a sign manufacturing may be leveling
off after leading the recovery in the world’s largest economy.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business barometer fell to 56.6 this month, the lowest since
November 2009, from 67.6 in April. Figures greater than 50
signal expansion. Economists forecast the gauge would fall to
62, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Manufacturers that led the recovery as exports rose and
business investment picked up are facing challenges from higher
raw materials costs and the effects of  Japan ’s earthquake and
tsunami.  Deere & Co. (DE) , the world’s largest farm-equipment maker,
raised its 2011 earnings forecast less than analysts estimated
as disruptions from Japan and costlier inputs lowered profit.  “There is a consistent story across regions that
manufacturing was slowing during the month, although it’s
unclear for how long or what’s next,” said  Jim O’Sullivan ,
global chief economist at MF Global Inc. in New York, who
forecast the index would fall to 58. “Japan supply-chain issues
appear to be part of the story, in addition to the impact of the
jump in oil and gasoline prices earlier in the year.”  Estimates from 55 economists for the Chicago purchasers’
index ranged from 54 to 67. The measure’s 11-point drop this
month was the biggest since October 2008.  Other reports today showed home prices and  consumer
confidence  declined.  Home Prices  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 3.6 percent from March 2010, the biggest year-over-year
decline since November 2009, the group said. At 138.16, the
gauge was the weakest since March 2003.  The Conference Board’s household sentiment index dropped to
60.8 in May from a revised 66 reading the prior month, figures
from the New York-based private research group showed. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called
for a rise to 66.6.  The Chicago group’s production gauge fell to 56 from
April’s reading of 70. The gauge of new orders dropped to 53.5
from 66.3.  An index of prices paid eased to 78.6 from 81.8.  The group’s employment measure decreased to 60.8 from 63.7
the prior month.  Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the national
outlook. The Chicago group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers with operations in the U.S.
and abroad, making the gauge a measure of overall growth.  Business Cools  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s monthly national
factory index, due tomorrow, slid to 57.5 in May from 60.4,
according to the median projection in a Bloomberg News survey. A
reading above 50 signals expansion.  Disruptions related to the March earthquake and tsunami in
Japan led to a plunge in U.S. automobile output, causing
industrial production to stall in April, a Federal Reserve
report showed May 17.  Deere, based in Moline,  Illinois , said on May 18 that
earnings will be $2.65 billion in the year through October, more
than the $2.5 billion forecast in February. The projection fell
short of the average analysts’ estimate in a Bloomberg survey
for profit of $2.67 billion.  The manufacturer’s forecast includes a negative impact of
about $300 million in sales and $70 million in operating profit
because of disruptions from the Japanese earthquake and tsunami.
Global demand for agriculture and construction equipment will
still drive profits, the company said.  Slower Growth  Economic growth slowed to a 1.8 percent annual rate in the
months of this year after expanding at a 3.1 percent pace in the
fourth quarter, according to Commerce Department figures.  While economic growth in the first three quarter was
“somewhat softer than anticipated,” the slowdown will
“probably prove temporary” with manufacturing data and
financial markets improving, Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said at a May 6 press conference.  The Fed leader said he expects the impact of rising
commodity prices on inflation to be “transitory.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 