-- 
Buyout Firms Morphing Into Asset Managers as Deals Dwindle

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-05-31T21:44:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/buyout-firms-morphing-into-asset-managers-as-takeovers-dwindle.html
After making their founders
billionaires, buyout specialists such as  Carlyle Group  and KKR &
Co. are turning into asset managers that run hedge funds and
strip malls as fresh capital and takeover targets become scarce.  Stephen Schwarzman ’s  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the biggest
private-equity firm, is earning twice as much from owning
property, including office buildings in  India  and senior
communities, as from buyouts. New York-based KKR, whose co-
founders Henry R. Kravis and George R. Roberts helped pioneer
leveraged buyouts in the 1980s, now owns a stake in a 5,500-mile
U.S. pipeline and lends to distressed companies.  The firms have little choice if they want to grow. Takeover
candidates are expensive after a two-year, 95 percent rally in
stocks, and commitments from backers such as pension funds have
waned amid the weakest fundraising environment since 2003.  “The large-cap leveraged buyout business has become
mature,” said Colin Blaydon, director of the Center for  Private
Equity  and Entrepreneurship at Dartmouth College’s Tuck School
of Business in Hanover,  New Hampshire . In the future, private-
equity firms will look “more like the large money-management
enterprises, with a big emphasis on assets under management.”  The transformation comes with challenges. Three of the five
biggest leveraged-buyout, or LBO, companies have sold shares to
the public to finance entry into ventures where they face stiff
competition and sometimes earn lower fees.  “It’s not hard to start or buy other businesses,”
Blackstone President  Tony James  said in an interview. “What’s
hard is creating businesses that are best at what they do.”  Aging Founders  Fund managers are stepping up efforts to diversify, a trend
that began in the 1990s as a way to smooth the boom-and-bust
cycle of LBOs. That makes their firms more attractive to public
investors, who must overcome doubts about whether they should
buy stock from people who built their fortunes picking the right
moment to sell. For aging founders, now in their 60s, a public
listing creates liquidity for their ownership stakes.  Blackstone was one of the first to go public, in June 2007,
when earnings from real estate and buyouts were about equal.
This year, property deals propelled quarterly economic net
income, a measure of profit, to a record, rising fourfold to
$361 million in the first three months, while private equity
fell 9 percent to $175.5 million.  Property Deals  The New York-based company’s largest investment in the last
12 months was the $9.4 billion deal to buy 593 U.S. shopping
centers from  Australia ’s  Centro Properties Group. (CNP)  It would be
the largest cash purchase of real estate in the world since the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, Schwarzman,
64, told investors in an April conference call.  Blackstone has three investment businesses “equal to or
greater in scale” than private equity, James said.  At Carlyle Group, ranked second by assets under management,
co-founder  David Rubenstein  has steered the Washington-based
firm into the fund-of-funds business by taking over AlpInvest, a
Dutch asset manager that spreads money for investors among other
buyout funds. Rubenstein, 61, also agreed buy a majority stake
in Claren Road Asset Management LLC, a hedge fund that trades
debt, and is considering taking the company public.  KKR, created in 1976 by Kravis, Roberts and Jerome Kohlberg, is best known for staging what at the time was the
largest LBO in history, the $30 billion takeover of RJR Nabisco
Inc. in April 1989. It has ventured into underwriting stock and
bond offerings, investing in infrastructure deals and, most
recently, operating hedge funds. Like their peers, KKR’s
founders are reducing dependence on the deals that vaulted them
into the ranks of the world’s richest men and formed the
cornerstone of what is today a $2.5 trillion industry.  KKR Returns  Investors in KKR’s 1986 fund got more than 13 times their
money back, a performance the firm hasn’t been able to repeat,
according to its  annual report .  Buyout funds use a mix of cash and debt to buy companies
and typically try to improve operations before selling within
about five years. To pay the debt, the new owners often slash
costs by cutting jobs, closing factories and selling assets.  The LBO business has become more crowded, with almost eight
times as many firms last year as the 60 active in 1990. Cheap
debt has fueled competition and driven up bids, making it harder
for managers like  Leon Black ’s Apollo Global Management LLC to
find suitable targets, President Marc Spilker told investors
last month. Raising funds has also become harder.  ‘Not Fun’  “As the business exploded, more and more people rushed
into private equity, which made competition for money fierce,”
said Richard Beattie, chairman of New York-based law firm
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, who helped KKR engineer the RJR
Nabisco takeover and remains an adviser to many private-equity
firms. “As a result, the founders spent more time fundraising,
which is not fun. Going to the public markets for permanent
capital is a solution.”  Diversification makes sense for private-equity managers
seeking more revenue, diminished risk and a less cyclical
business than a pure buyout firm, said Anthony Tutrone, head of
the alternatives unit at New York-based Neuberger Berman Group
LLC. It’s not clear how investors in private-equity funds
benefit, he said.  “With a large fee base, the manager wins regardless of
performance,” Tutrone said. “Investors want to avoid
situations where managers stop questioning whether they win and
instead are just asking by how much.”  The firms say investors’ interests are aligned with those
of the founders, who have their own money in the funds. Carlyle
partners, management teams and employees have committed or
invested more than  $4 billion  of after-tax dollars alongside
Carlyle’s funds, according to the company’s annual report.  Lower Fees  Some wins from diversification come with smaller profit
margins. Buyout firms typically collect a 1.5 percent to 2
percent fee on assets under management and a 20 percent cut of
any profit. While the new businesses may produce comparable
management fees, they can offer little or no incentive fees.  One Blackstone fund specializing in commercial loans and
junk-rated debt charges an average 1.2 percent annual management
fee and gets no incentives for good performance. Carlyle’s
AlpInvest, which has more than $57 billion in assets under
management according to its website, generated about $86 million
in 2009 revenue, which included management and incentive fees.  Blue Wave  The new ventures face established rivals in asset
management and real estate and aren’t always profitable.  Carlyle Blue Wave Partners, the firm’s first attempt at a
hedge fund in 2007, saw assets drop by a third to $600 million
by 2008 as the market for mortgage securities froze. Carlyle
Capital Corp., a mortgage-bond fund, missed more than $400
million of margin calls and was suspended from public trading in
2007 after less than two years. Apollo’s real estate unit posted
a first-quarter loss the company said was tied to the purchase
of Citi Property Investors from Citigroup Inc. in November.  Competitors include  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
money manager with $3.6 trillion of assets under management,
whose initial backers included Blackstone. BlackRock is also
expanding its private-equity and real estate offerings and has
$115 billion invested in such so-called alternative products,
Chief Executive Officer Larry Fink told investors last month.  For property investments, buyout funds must bid against
publicly traded real estate investment trusts such as Mortimer Zuckerman’s Boston Properties Inc., with $13.8 billion in assets
and a 10-year total return of 352 percent, counting the share-
price increase and dividends.  ‘Pricing Power’  “There haven’t been many investment strategies that have
survived unscathed,” said Mitch Petrick, Carlyle’s managing
director, who is charged with moving the firm into hedge-fund
strategies with the potential for more lucrative returns.
“After the turmoil, many investors asked themselves whether
they should’ve been paying 2 and 20 for some strategies.”  Petrick, a Morgan Stanley veteran hired by Rubenstein last
year, led the Claren Road acquisition. Similar deals are on the
way, he said in an interview. Petrick said he also may hire new
teams of traders whose performance can justify higher fees.  “If you have a unique product, you’ll have pricing
power,” he said.  The firm has rebranded Petrick’s unit Global Market
Strategies, removing the word “credit” from its name, to mark
a shift away from a business concentrated on low-risk, long-term
loans to one whose investments fluctuate in value daily. One
strategy is a long-short hedge fund that trades stocks and
another seeks to capitalize on trends in emerging markets.  “We’re building new products and adding new geographies
and people to give our clients more choice and asset-
diversification options,” Rubenstein said in an interview.  Blackstone’s GSO  That might appeal to James Dunn, chief investment officer
at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem,  North Carolina , who
said he’s paring the number of his endowment fund’s general
partner relationships by more than a third, to 29 from 44.  “If you only do one thing really well, I can’t deal with
you,” Dunn said May 4 during a panel discussion at the  Milken
Institute Global Conference  in Beverly Hills,  California .  Among Blackstone’s fastest-growing businesses is its credit
division, comprised mostly of activities tied to its GSO funds.
The unit uses hedge funds, loans to troubled companies and
mezzanine lending for investment ideas distinct from traditional
corporate takeovers, often involving targets too small to
attract the firm’s private-equity dealmakers. The name comes
from founders Bennett Goodman, Tripp Smith and Douglas Ostrover,
who worked with James at Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette and sold
their business to Blackstone in 2008.  Falling Profit  The operation now ranks fourth in terms of profitability at
the company, with a margin of 39 percent compared with private
equity’s 64 percent during the first quarter. The business
produced $60.5 million in economic net income last quarter,
about one-third of the $175.5 million for private equity.  Blackstone’s credit and marketable alternative business,
which comprised its fund-of-funds unit as well as GSO, increased
economic net income 40 percent in 2010 to $372 million from the
previous year. Private-equity profit fell by about 1 percent to
$485 million over the same period. Blackstone started reporting
GSO and the fund of funds separately last quarter.  KKR has been slower to diversify. The business that houses
its main non-LBO operations reported economic net income of
$15.9 million in the first quarter compared with the private-
equity unit, which cleared $276.7 million in the period.  ‘Core and Heritage’  KKR Asset Management has expanded into mezzanine lending
and so-called special situations in which the firm uses debt to
rescue or expand companies. Through that business, headed by
William Sonneborn, 41, formerly the president of money manager
TCW Group Inc., KKR is also getting into hedge funds. The firm
hired a group of former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. traders led by
 Bob Howard  to pursue a long-short equities strategy that allows
managers to bet on rising and falling stocks.  In real estate, KKR hired former Goldman Sachs executive
Ralph Rosenberg to oversee investments. Initially, KKR won’t
raise a discrete real estate fund, instead opting to tap
existing equity and debt funds for property deals,  Scott Nuttall , head of global capital at KKR, said on a May 4
conference call.  “Private equity is our core and heritage, and it’s still
the biggest business, and we expect it to be going forward,”
Nuttall said in an interview. “It may take us longer, but our
expansion will be quite sustainable.”  Oregon Fund  The search for new revenue reflects the limits of leveraged
buyouts as targets become more expensive and clients balk at
committing new funds. The first three months of 2011 represents
the fifth straight quarter without a fund closing on more than
$5 billion, according to  Pitchbook , a private-equity deal
database.  Oregon Public Employees Retirement Fund, one of KKR’s
original investors, committed $500 million to the firm’s latest
pool, one-third the $1.5 billion it invested in a predecessor in
2006. The pension fund is “scaling back” its commitments to
other private-equity companies as well in an effort reach target
levels, Chief Investment Officer Ron Schmitz said in an e-mail.  For years, buyout firms didn’t need much of a sales force
because the founders acted as rainmakers. Now, New York-based
Apollo is stepping up spending on a marketing team to round up
new cash, Chief Financial Officer Eugene Donnelly said on a May
12 conference call.  When the firms do get new money, they’re finding fewer
opportunities to deploy it. Blackstone, which is raising a $15
billion fund, committed only $550 million in private equity
during the first quarter, Schwarzman told investors in April.  ‘Diminished’ Expectations  “The top managers aren’t moving away from LBOs,” said Ros Stephenson, co-head of corporate finance at  Barclays Capital  in
 New York . “The importance of their other businesses has been
emphasized given what’s happened. Expectations on fund sizes
have diminished, and average LBO deals are smaller than pre-
crisis. There isn’t the capacity to support deals of $20 billion
plus at the moment.”  Private-equity managers are trying to boost returns by
going where rivals can’t because they lack the firepower, or by
taking advantage of distressed sellers.  “In virtually all recent transactions, Blackstone has
faced limited competition due to the magnitude of capital
required and the complexity of the transactions,” Schwarzman
said during the April conference call.  Apollo raised $565 million in a March public offering. That
amount included 21.5 million shares sold by the firm, as well as
8.26 million by stockholders such as Goldman Sachs.  Apollo has been scouring European banks for “stranded
assets,” including $2 billion of non-performing commercial
loans, Spilker told investors on May 12. Another  $240 million  is
earmarked for “longevity-based assets,” a bet on the value of
life insurance policies Apollo is buying from banks.  Exit Plan  The firm began diversifying in 2003 with the creation of a
capital-markets business that invests in high-yield bonds and
loans. The division, which had $23.8 billion under management as
of the end of the first quarter, now accounts for 34 percent of
Apollo’s total.  Selling stock to the public provides managers with a way of
cashing out and passing the company on to the next generation.
Some firms, such as New York-based  Warburg Pincus  LLC, shifted
ownership and control without a public listing. The drawback is
that executives who use this method wouldn’t get compensated for
the intangible value of the brand they created.  “Our founders had a very old-school way of thinking,”
said Joseph Landy, 49, co-president of Warburg Pincus, which has
raised $30 billion in private-equity funds since 1971.  Public Investors  Results for shareholders of private-equity companies have
been mixed. KKR gained 63 percent through last week since it
shifted its listing to New York last year from Amsterdam, where
its publicly traded European entity had lost more than half its
value since 2006. While Blackstone gained 55 percent in the past
12 months through last week, its shares were still 45 percent
below the IPO price. Apollo, which this year moved its listing
to the New York Stock Exchange from a private exchange run by
Goldman Sachs, was down 4.3 percent since March.  Still, most Wall Street analysts favored the companies,
with a cumulative tally of 26 “buy” recommendations, 6
“holds” and no “sell” recommendations.  Private-equity executives will have to persuade public
investors that a more stable stream of earnings with lower
margins is worth a higher multiple. Their track record of buying
low and selling high makes investors such as Harold Bradley
skeptical.  “When the smart money is selling, I’m not convinced
investors should be paying up,” said Bradley, chief investment
officer of the  Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation  in Kansas City,
 Missouri , which promotes entrepreneurship. “In the late 1990s,
all the boutique investment banks sold, knowing it was a bubble.
Now the private-equity firms that couldn’t get public during the
peak are trying.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  