-- 
Canada Dollar Gains Most in 2011 After Central Bank Decision

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-05-31T18:27:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/canada-dollar-gains-most-in-2011-after-central-bank-decision.html
Canada ’s dollar rose the most since
December after Bank of Canada policy makers said they’ll
“eventually” raise  interest rates .  The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, pared a monthly loss as crude oil
and stocks gained on speculation European officials will
sanction additional financial help for  Greece .  “The market reaction has been a sharp appreciation of the
Canadian dollar,” said Charles St-Arnaud, Canadian economist
and foreign exchange strategist at Nomura Securities
International in  New York . “Most of it is mainly coming from a
re-pricing of rate-hike expectations.”  The Canadian currency rose 0.9 percent to 96.84 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 3:24 p.m. in Toronto, compared with 97.71 cents
yesterday. It gained as much as 1.2 percent, the biggest
intraday jump since Dec. 2. One Canadian dollar buys $1.03256.  The target rate for overnight loans between commercial
banks remained 1 percent, where it has been since September, as
expected by all 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “To the extent that the expansion continues and the
current material excess supply in the economy is gradually
absorbed, some of the considerable monetary policy stimulus
currently in place will be eventually withdrawn,” central-bank
Governor  Mark Carney  and his five deputies said in a statement
from Ottawa today. “Such reduction would need to be carefully
considered,” the statement said, echoing language used in every
interest-rate announcement since September.  Market Expectations  The yield on the September 2011 bankers acceptance
contract, a barometer for short-term rate expectations, jumped
three basis points to 1.38 percent, indicating traders are
increasing bets on a rate increase this year. The yield had
declined to 1.35 percent yesterday, the lowest since August.  “The statement is likely to accelerate market expectations
with respect to the next rate hike,” said  Jack Spitz , managing
director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada  in
Toronto. “As a result, some offers in dollar-Canada have
appeared,” he said, meaning the Canadian dollar is gaining
versus the greenback. “The statement itself will be taken as
slightly more hawkish than expectations.”  The probability of an interest-rate increase at the central
bank’s July meeting stayed the same at about 13 percent,
according to data on overnight index swap rates compiled by
Bloomberg. Odds of a rise in September shortened to 28 percent,
from 18 percent yesterday. Odds are more favorable for an
increase at the October meeting, moving to 59 percent today,
from 55 percent.  Yields Rise  The currency’s “persistent strength” poses a threat to
the economy and issues driving inflation higher may be
transitory, Carney said.  Carney said in a separate  speech  on May 16 the U.S., which
buys 73 percent of Canada’s exports, and other developed
countries “will be weighed down by the legacy of the crisis,”
and will require years to repair household, bank and government
balance sheets, which may cut demand for Canadian products.  Canada’s benchmark two-year bonds yielded 1.53 percentage
points, up three basis points, as the price of the 1.75 percent
bond maturing in March 2013 fell 6 cents to C$100.37. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  The gap between the two-year bond and equivalent maturity
Treasuries widened five basis points to 1.07 percent, the most
in a week.  The loonie is still down against 13 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts since Carney’s May 16 speech, and is headed for its
first monthly decline since January, 2.4 percent, as crude oil
futures fell this month from almost $115 a barrel.  It touched 98.16 cents last week, the least since March.  Crude for July delivery climbed 2.5 percent to $103.06 a
barrel today on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  