-- 
Global Carbon Emissions From Power Generation Rise to Record, IEA Reports

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-05-31T03:40:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/carbon-emissions-from-power-generation-rises-to-record-iea-says.html
Global  carbon emissions  from
electricity generation climbed to a record in 2010, led by coal-
fired power plants, as growth accelerated in emerging economies,
according to the  International Energy Agency .  Emissions rose to 30.6 gigatons last year, 5 percent higher
than the previous record of 29.3 gigatons in 2008, the Paris-
based IEA said in a statement yesterday. Carbon output fell in
2009 because of the global financial crisis, the agency said,
without providing a figure.  China  and  India  led the increase
from emerging economies.  China, India, Brazil and  South Africa  pressed developed
nations to make bigger cuts to emissions in December at
international climate talks in Cancun, Mexico. Countries agreed
in Copenhagen in 2009 and Cancun to try to contain global
warming to 2 degrees Celsius beyond pre-industrial levels.  “Our latest estimates are another wake-up call,”  Fatih Birol , the IEA’s chief economist, said in the statement posted
on the agency’s website. “The world has edged incredibly close
to the level of emissions that should not be reached until 2020
if the 2 degree Celsius target is to be attained.”  Coal was responsible for about 44 percent of estimated
emissions in 2010, while oil contributed about 36 percent and
gas 20 percent, the IEA said. Countries in the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development emitted 10 tons of carbon
on a per capita basis, compared with 5.8 tons for China and 1.5
tons for India.  ‘Serious Setback’  The Paris-based adviser estimates that 80 percent of the
projected carbon emissions from the electricity sector in 2020
are already “locked in.”  The increase in carbon output “and the locking in of
future emissions due to infrastructure investments represents a
serious setback to our hopes of limiting the global rise in
temperature to no more than 2 degrees Celsius,” Birol said.  An increase in global warming by more than 2 degrees would
lead to the melting of snow on mountain ranges such as the
Himalayas and Andes that provide water to more than one billion
people, and may lead to the extinction of as much as 30 percent
of plant and animal species, according to the United Nations.  In Cancun, countries avoided setting new targets for
curbing  greenhouse gases . Japan, Russia and Canada said they
don’t want to extend the 1997  Kyoto Protocol  unless the two
biggest emitters, China and the U.S., are brought into the pact.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  