-- 
Carney May Keep Canada Lending Rate 1% on Threats to Recovery

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-05-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/carney-may-keep-canada-lending-rate-1-on-threats-to-recovery.html
The Bank of  Canada  will probably keep
its key interest rate unchanged today and may emphasize the
risks to Canada of a strong dollar and uneven global growth
rather than give hints on the timing of the next tightening.  The target rate for overnight loans between commercial
banks will remain at 1 percent, where it has been since
September, according to all 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The decision is due at 9 a.m. New York time.  Canada’s announcement will be followed in June by policy
makers from the other Group of Seven nations, starting with the
European Central Bank and  Bank of England  June 9. Governor  Mark Carney  led the group with three increases last year before
pausing to judge the strength of the world economy. Last month,
the Bank said growth may slow in the April-June period to half
the 3.9 percent pace seen in the first quarter as indebted
consumers and governments pull back and auto production slows on
disruptions linked to natural disasters in  Japan .  “That’s the appropriate thing for the bank to do, to
remain vague, because it’s a very unusual environment,” said
Carlos Leitao, chief economist at Laurentian Bank Securities in
 Montreal . “I wouldn’t expect to be able to point to anything”
about the precise timing of future increases, he said.  “Any further reduction in monetary policy stimulus would
need to be carefully considered,” the bank has said in every
interest rate announcement since September.  Slower Than Forecast  Trading in swaps contracts showed investors on balance
began betting a rate increase wouldn’t happen until October
following a May 20 report that showed inflation was slower than
economists forecast. The central bank sets  interest rates  to aim
inflation at the 2 percent midpoint of a 1 percent to 3 percent
target band.  Gross domestic product in the world’s 11th-largest economy
expanded at a 3.9 percent annualized pace between January and
March, Statistics Canada said yesterday. The  Bank of Canada  said
last month growth is likely to slow to a 2 percent annual pace
in the April-June period, and that the rise in inflation to 3.3
percent in March and April was driven by temporary factors such
as higher taxes and food and energy costs.  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has also said
in recent speeches that the threat from accelerating prices will
prove “transitory.” Central bankers there are discussing how
quickly to begin tightening policy after completing the purchase
of $600 billion in U.S. Treasuries by the end of June.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict no move by the Fed
until the first quarter of next year, and that the Bank of
Canada will raise its rate at its Sept. 7 meeting. The  European
Central Bank  raised rates in April for the first time in almost
three years to 1.25 percent.  Currency Strength  Canada sends about 75 percent of its exports to the U.S.,
and those shipments are at risk as the Canadian dollar rallied
to 94.46 cents on April 29, the strongest since November 2007,
Carney has said. The currency traded for 97.71 cents per  U.S.
dollar  late yesterday in Toronto.  Exports may be curbed “for some time” by weak U.S. demand
and a loss of competitiveness by companies who haven’t done
enough to develop sales in emerging markets, Carney said in a
May 16 speech. The Canadian dollar could also strengthen as
global investors seek “proxies” for emerging-market assets and
other countries impose exchange-rate restrictions, posing
further obstacles for exporters, he said.  Trade was a drag in the first quarter as imports rose
faster than imports, even as shipments abroad of energy rose 8.9
percent,  Statistics Canada  said yesterday. Consumer and
government spending were both flat after previous gains, which
economists said suggests weaker future growth momentum.  ‘Cautious Approach’  “The number of international headwinds faced by the
Canadian economy, in combination with a marked deceleration in
domestic demand are strong arguments for the Bank of Canada to
take a cautious approach with monetary tightening,” said Diana Petramala, an economist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, in a note to
clients.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper won a May 2 election with his
first majority of seats in Parliament since first taking power
in 2006, and Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  presents a June 6
budget with a plan to eliminate a  budget deficit  by 2014. He
advanced that deadline by a year during the election campaign,
saying the government could find C$4 billion a year in program
spending reductions.  There are signs that business spending and investment,
which boosted growth in the first quarter, may sustain Canada’s
recovery.  ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker, said May 20
it will spend C$2.1 billion to raise iron ore output 71 percent
at its Quebec operations by 2013. The project will create 8,000
jobs during construction and 900 permanent jobs afterwards, the
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at   gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  