-- 
Carrefour Investor Opposes Individual Sale of Non-European Units

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-05-31T14:51:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/carrefour-investor-opposes-individual-sale-of-non-european-units.html
Carrefour SA (CA)  investor Knight Vinke
Asset Management LLC said it opposes the retailer selling assets
outside of Europe individually and that management should focus
on improving business in the region.  “The sale of Carrefour’s non-European activities, one by
one, in an isolated manner, wouldn’t seem to us to be the good
solution,” the activist investor said in a letter sent to
management May 25. Knight Vinke owns about 10 million shares, or
1.5 percent of Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based Carrefour.  Knight Vinke sent the letter to Carrefour management this
month after media reports the retailer had held talks with Cia.
Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar about merging
their businesses in  Brazil . Pao de Acucar has denied the reports
of contact, while Carrefour has declined comment.  Pao de Acucar’s partner in the business, Casino Guichard-
Perrachon SA, today said it had filed for international
arbitration against the Diniz Group after discovering it had
held talks with Carrefour, two people familiar with the matter
said.  Carrefour Chief Executive Officer Lars Olofsson and Knight
Vinke have butted heads over Olofsson’s plan to spin off 25
percent the grocer’s property business, which owns real estate
assets in  France ,  Italy  and  Spain . After shareholder opposition,
Carrefour earlier this month delayed the plan, though it says it
continues to prepare for a listing. Carrefour is still pushing
ahead with an offering of its Dia hard-discount business in
 Madrid  in July.  ‘Catastrophic’  Olofsson has lost credibility with the market, Knight Vinke
Chief Executive Officer Eric Knight said today. However, the
company needs stability and his leaving at the moment would be
“catastrophic,” Knight said.  Olofsson, 59, is trying to turn around Carrefour’s domestic
business. He joined Carrefour in 2009 after a decade in which
sales barely rose in France, Carrefour’s biggest market. The CEO
is pinning the company’s success on a 1.5 billion-euro ($2.12
billion) revamp of 500 superstores in western  Europe , betting a
new format with lower prices and more own-label products will
boost sales and profit through 2015. This month, he ousted the
head of France and took direct control of the country after a
lackluster first quarter.  Carrefour has mandated Lazard Ltd. to study a merger
between its Brazilian unit and Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao
Grupo Pao de Acucar, according to media reports  Knight Vinke last year called for a breakup of Eni SpA,
Italy’s biggest oil company, after building a stake. The New
York-based investment firm has accumulated an 18 percent holding
in  Kesa Electricals Plc (KESA) , owner of the Comet electronics chain in
the U.K. and Darty in France, over the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 