-- 
CEZ Rises to Week High as German Atomic Exit Boosts Power

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-05-31T15:11:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/cez-rises-to-week-high-as-german-atomic-exit-boosts-power-2-.html
CEZ AS (CEZ) , the Czech Republic’s biggest
utility, rose for a fourth day to reach a one-week high amid
speculation a decision in neighboring Germany to close nuclear
plants by 2022 will drive up electricity prices in the region.  The company that exports part of its output to Germany
climbed 0.8 percent to 941 koruna at the 4:24 p.m. close in
 Prague , the highest since May 23. CEZ has gained 20 percent this
year.  German power for next-year delivery earlier today rose to
as much as 60.90 euros per megawatt-hour, the highest in almost
two years, before retreating to 60. Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
government on May 29 set the nuclear-energy exit date and said
it would keep a tax on nuclear fuel imposed this year.  “The increased utilization of high-emission coal-fired
 power plants  will push up the long-term expected power prices on
the German-Czech market, mainly from 2015 onwards,”  Jan Tomanik , an analyst at Wood & Co. brokerage in Prague, wrote in
a report to clients today. “CEZ should benefit significantly.”  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear disaster is unlikely to
delay the tender for an expansion of CEZ’s atomic station
Temelin, said Anders Jackson, European chief for Westinghouse
Electric Co., in a May 20 interview. The U.S.-based nuclear-
reactor builder owned by Toshiba Corp. is bidding against
France’s Areva SA and ZAO Atomstroyexport of Russia to build two
new reactors at Temelin.  ‘Cheapest’  State-run CEZ has said it will pick the winner in 2013 and
start the new reactors by 2025 at the latest. The shares have
gained 17 percent since  Germany  closed seven reactors for a
safety review on March 15, sending  Europe ’s electricity prices
surging. Germany’s E.ON AG has lost 9.8 percent in the period.  Nuclear reactors are “the cheapest of all the conventional
sources” with generation costs between 8 euros and 10 euros per
megawatt-hour, according to Wood’s Tomanik. That compares with
“extremely high investment costs” for renewable energy sources
and fuel costs of as much as 45 euros per megawatt-hour for
plants fired with natural gas, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  