-- 
Schiavone, Murray Advance at French Open After Comebacks; Federer Wins

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-31T18:44:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/champion-schiavone-murray-advance-at-french-open-tennis-after-comebacks.html
Defending champion Francesca Schiavone and  Andy Murray  both staged comebacks to advance at
the French Open, as  Roger Federer  set up a semifinal with  Novak Djokovic .  Italy’s Schiavone beat  Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova  of Russia
1-6, 7-5, 7-5 to move into the semifinals on a cold and blustery
day on the main Court Philippe Chatrier at  Roland Garros  in
Paris.  Pavlyuchenkova, at 19 the youngest woman left in the draw,
was up a set and 4-1 when the 30-year-old Italian reduced her
error count and found her range on the baseline. Schiavone will
play No. 11 Marion Bartoli of  France , who beat former champion
 Svetlana Kuznetsova  of Russia 7-6 (7-4), 6-4 to move to her
first French Open semifinal.  “I am 6-1, 4-1 down, and I say, Francie, this is not the
way to go,” fifth-seeded Schiavone told a news conference.
“Keep going. I was really sad inside, but what can you do?
Nobody can change things, just me. So I came back and I enjoyed
a little bit more the end than the start.”  Britain’s Murray came back from a two-set deficit for the
fifth time in his career to beat  Viktor Troicki  4-6, 4-6, 6-3,
6-2, 7-5 in a fourth-round match. Grand Slam record holder
Federer of Switzerland moved to his sixth  French Open  semifinal
by beating No. 9 Gael Monfils of France 6-4, 6-3, 7-6 (7-3).  “He is superb player, and he can be very dangerous,”
Federer said of Monfils in a courtside interview. “The
conditions weren’t easy; it was cold and there was a lot of
wind.”  Lone Trophy  Federer, a former world No. 1 who won his lone Roland
Garros trophy in 2009, will next play No. 2 Djokovic, the
Australian Open champion from Serbia who’s won 43 straight
matches since December.  The Swiss, seeded third for the first time in a major since
Wimbledon 2003, handled the weather better than Monfils by
hitting 41 winners to the Frenchman’s 24. Court Philippe
Chatrier was sprayed with water after the second set to stop
clay from being blown into the stands.  Federer, who last won a major at the 2010 Australian Open,
has yet to drop a set in Paris this year. Although he leads
Djokovic 13-9, he’s lost all three matches they’ve played this
year.  No. 15 Troicki, from  Serbia , was two points away from
victory, leading 5-3, 30-30 in the final set, before fourth-
seeded Murray came back to reach his second French quarterfinal.  Ankle Injury  “I was really close to winning this match and didn’t make
it,” Troicki told a news conference. “I was just two points
away on my serve, and he played it risky. Definitely one of the
toughest losses in my career.”  The match resumed today after darkness halted play at 9:30
p.m. last night tied at two sets each. Murray had been doubtful
for the match after injuring his ankle in the third round.  “Emotionally, it was pretty challenging,” Murray told
reporters, adding he has a partial tear in one of the tendons in
his ankle. “I was really nervous. But once I went behind, I
loosened up a little bit and went for my shots.”  Murray reached his third Grand Slam final at the Australian
Open in January, losing to Djokovic. He then struggled with his
form and didn’t win a match on the ATP World Tour until April 13
in  Monte Carlo .  Murray next plays No. 34  Juan Ignacio Chela  of  Argentina ,
the only player left in the men’s draw from outside  Europe .
Murray leads that matchup 6-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  