-- 
Chinese Nationals Are Set to Enter Pleas in U.S. Microchip Smuggling Case

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-31T17:21:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/chinese-nationals-set-to-plea-in-virginia-in-u-s-microchip-smuggling-case.html
Two Chinese executives accused of
attempting to obtain radiation-hardened microchips used in the
military and aerospace industries are set to plea tomorrow to
U.S. export violations, according to a federal court docket.  Hong Wei Xian, also known as Harry Zan, 32, and Li Li, also
known as Lea Li, 33, were charged by a grand jury in Alexandria,
 Virginia , last year with conspiring to violate the Arms Export
Control Act and to smuggle goods from the U.S., and the
attempted export of munitions in violation of the act.  Xian is president and Li is vice president of Beijing
Starcreates Space Science & Technology Development Co., which
imports and sells programmable read-only memory microchips to
 China  Aerospace Science & Technology Corp., according to an
April 4 statement from the Justice Department. The latter
company is controlled by the government of China, according to
the statement.  The two were arrested in  Hungary  in September and
transferred to the custody of U.S. marshals on April 1,
according to the statement. The conspiracy charge carries a
maximum five-year prison term and the export violation carries a
penalty of as long as 20 years in prison, the U.S. said.  ‘Change of Plea’  Xian and Li pleaded not guilty to the charges on April 7.
The court’s docket notes they will appear before U.S. District
Judge Gerald Bruce Lee for a “change of plea” hearing
tomorrow.  Peter Carr , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride  in
Alexandria, declined to comment.  Xian’s lawyer, John Rowley of Baker & McKenzie in
 Washington , declined to comment. Li’s lawyers, Alan Yamamoto and
Harry Dennis, did not immediately return telephone messages
seeking comment.  The U.S. has had an embargo against China since 1990
prohibiting the export of defense articles to the country,
according to the statement.  The case is U.S. v. Xian, 10-cr-00207, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 