-- 
China May Assume Some Local Government Debt, Reuters Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-01T09:40:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/china-may-shift-debt-away-from-local-governments-reuters-says.html
China  plans to shift as much as 3
trillion yuan ($463 billion) of debt off of local governments,
reducing the possibility of defaults that could threaten
stability, Reuters reported, citing unidentified people.  The central government will pay off some local debt and
make state-owned banks write off some bad loans, the  news agency 
reported yesterday. China will also end a ban on provincial and
municipal governments selling bonds, according to the report.  Chinese cities and provinces, also currently barred from
directly taking bank loans, have set up about 8,800 companies to
fund infrastructure projects, Credit Suisse Group AG estimates.
 Fitch Ratings  cited the risk from these vehicles, used to fund
stimulus spending from the 2008 global financial crisis, in
lowering its outlook on China’s AA- long-term local-currency
debt rating in April.  “Many of those loans will not be repaid and ultimately it
is the central government that will probably have to bail out
either the banks or local governments, or both more likely, as
they did a decade ago,” Qinwei Wang, China economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mail response yesterday
to questions from Bloomberg News.  Debt Clean Up  The National Development and Reform Commission, the
Ministry of Finance, and the China Banking Regulatory Commission
plan to start cleaning up the debt in June and end in September,
Reuters reported, citing one of two people interviewed by the
newswire. The other person said the program may take longer,
Reuters reported.  Xu Lin, head of the department of fiscal and financial
affairs at the NDRC, said he hadn’t heard of the local
government debt plan reported by Reuters. The commission,
China’s top economic planning agency, approves bond sales by
local government financing vehicles.  Allowing local governments to directly sell bonds would
also require the nation’s budget law to be revised, Xu said.
Revisions haven’t been made, he said.  Jia Kang, head of the Ministry of Finance’s research
department, said he’d also not heard of the plan. A press
official at the banking regulator, who declined to be identified
because of the agency’s rules, couldn’t immediately comment.  Local government financing vehicles had loans totaling 9.09
trillion yuan at the end of November, with 1.77 trillion deemed
to have repayment risks, the 21st Century Business Herald
newspaper said in March.  Banking System  The fiscal position of the central government has
strengthened compared with 10 years ago,  Capital Economics ’s
Wang said. Large losses at banks from local government debt
would mean that China will have an inefficient banking industry
for at least a few years, possibly damping growth, he said.
Assuming local government debt of 10 trillion yuan, the debt-to-
GDP ratio is about 70 percent, Wang said.  Growth is already slowing in the world’s second-biggest
economy as policy makers raise  interest rates  and order banks to
hold more assets in reserve as they seek to temper inflation. A
survey of purchasing managers published today showed
manufacturing expanded in May at the slowest pace in nine months.  To limit risks for banks, China increased oversight of
lending to the local-government vehicles, which surged during
the nation’s two-year stimulus program. In March, Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged a “comprehensive audit” of local debt.  Bank Profits  Regulators are unlikely to order Chinese banks to write off
local government loans, said Wilson Li, a Shenzhen-based analyst
at Guotai Junan International Holdings Ltd. Such loans account
for about 19 percent of outstanding credit and write downs would
have an “obvious impact” on banks’ profits, he said.  Hu Changmiao, a Beijing-based public relations official for
 China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , said he was unaware of “any new
instructions from the regulators on cleaning up local government
financing vehicle loans.”  China’s last banking crisis was in the late 1990s, when
years of state-directed credit left lenders saddled with bad
loans, forcing the government to spend more than $650 billion
over a decade in bailouts.  In 1999, Chinese authorities decided to liquidate Guangdong
International Trust & Investment Corp. after the company racked
up more than $4 billion of foreign debt. Gitic, as it was known,
was a financing company owned by the government of southern
China’s Guangdong province and was the first case in which China
refused to bail out foreign creditors.  The big-four government-owned banks --  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd.,  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , China
Construction Bank and  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (1288)  -- all
boosted their capital last year in the aftermath of the record
credit expansion unleashed as the global recession hit in 2008.  Along with Bank of Communications Co., five Chinese lenders
control about half of the nation’s banking assets. The group
raised $56 billion selling shares and convertible bonds last
year.  --Josh Fellman,  Henry Sanderson . With assistance from Winnie Zhu
in  Shanghai , Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong , Zheng Lifei and
Victoria Ruan in Beijing. Editors:  John Liu , Paul Panckhurst  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net 
Joshua Fellman in New York at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  