-- 
Christie’s $5.8 Million Singing-Bird Pistols Lift Watch Sale

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-05-31T03:17:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/christie-s-5-8-million-singing-bird-pistols-lift-hong-kong-sale-to-record.html
A pair of singing-bird pistols
made of gold and inlaid with gems sold for HK$45.5 million
($5.8 million) at a Christie’s International sale in  Hong
Kong  yesterday.  A huge round of applause erupted after a 10-minute fight
that Christie’s head of watches Aurel Bacs described as “an
epic bidding war between two of the world’s most connoisseur
collectors.” The only publicly known matching pair in the
world were included in a 456-lot sale of timepieces that
raised HK$164.7 million ($21.2 million), the highest tally
for an Asian watch sale, the London-based auction house said.
Two  Patek Philippe  watches sold for more than $1 million each.  Christie’s has raised HK$1.04 billion, including weekend
sales of wine and modern art, in four days. The weeklong
series -- with gems, Chinese ceramics and classical paintings
to come -- is poised to beat its Hong Kong sale record of
HK$2.4 billion. Last year’s equivalent Christie’s auctions
totaled HK$2.29 billion.  The timepieces followed an auction of Southeast Asian
art led by Belgian expatriate painter Adrien-Jean Le Mayeur
de Merpres, whose depiction of a Balinese temple festival
sold for HK$7.7 million.  The morning sale yesterday raised HK$49.4 million and
set 15 individual artist records, including one for a work by
20th century Indonesian master Affandi that sold for HK$3.6
million, and one for “La Piedra IV” by his Filipino
contemporary Fernando Zobel that fetched HK$1.6 million, four
times its estimate.  Chateau Latour  Prices have surged for Filipino artists in recent years
as a dearth of quality works for sale fostered speculation at
auctions, dealers said.  Yesterday’s sales came after a strong start to the Hong
Kong auctions that saw buyers spend HK$821.2 million on
modern art and vintage bottles of  Chateau Latour  and other
wines at the weekend.  Key to Christie’s success will be the June 1 auction of
Chinese ceramics and works of art. A HK$3.49 billion marathon
by  Sotheby’s (BID)  last month in the same category achieved prices
many times their estimates, while others failed to sell.  A highlight for Christie’s is a Qianlong-era vase,
similar to one that last year attracted the highest bid ever
for a Chinese artwork.  Hibiscus Flowers  The 15 inch (38.1 cm) vase being offered on June 1 is
lantern shaped, with scrolling hibiscus flowers on a yellow
background. The Qianlong vase is estimated at HK$200 million
and has the same pierced decoration as the 18th-century
Imperial vase that was bid to 51.6 million pounds ($83.2
million) at  Bainbridges  in  London  last November.  Bainbridges said in February that it hadn’t received
payment and has since refused to comment. Mindful of such
reports, Christie’s introduced for the first time the
requirement that bidders pay a deposit of HK$1 million on any
items valued at HK$8 million or more.  The Chinese antiques trade has an annual value of more
than $10 billion.  China  overtook the U.S. as the biggest
auction market for fine art last year, research company
 Artprice  said.  Zao and Zeng  The two top lots at Christie’s May 28 evening sale were
painted by 20th century artist  Zao Wou-ki . They were sold to
private Asian collectors for $5.27 million and $4.98 million
including buyer’s premiums -- more than twice estimates.  Works by contemporary Chinese painter Zeng Fanzhi also
fetched high prices in the packed auction room, with three
works among the 10 most expensive, including a self portrait
bought by a European buyer for $4.83 million.  Christie’s watch sale yesterday tallied 42 percent more
than the previous record of HK$116.1 million in 2007, the
auction house said.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 