-- 
RHB Capital Shares Jump as Maybank, CIMB Start Fight to Buy Malaysian Bank

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-06-01T09:28:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/cimb-maybank-get-nod-to-start-merger-talks-with-malaysia-s-rhb-capital.html
RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC)  surged to a 14-year
high after  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  and  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)  won
central bank approval to begin separate merger talks, triggering
a battle to potentially create Southeast Asia’s biggest bank.  The Kuala Lumpur-based lender jumped 7.4 percent to 9.90
ringgit at the 5 p.m. close in Kuala Lumpur trading, its highest
close since March 1997. With a market value of 21.7 billion
ringgit ($7.2 billion), this would be the biggest banking deal
in the Asia-Pacific region in the past three years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Maybank, as the nation’s largest lender is known, and CIMB,
headed by the prime minister’s brother, aim to cement their
dominance as the central bank grants more licenses to overseas
lenders including Bank of China Ltd. Smaller rival Hong Leong
Bank Bhd. last month bought EON Capital Bhd., and ECM Libra
Financial Group Bhd. is said to be seeking a buyer.  “Potentially, this could lead to a bidding war for RHB,”
said  Jason Chong , who helps manage about $1 billion of assets as
chief investment officer at Manulife Asset Management ( Malaysia )
Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur. “The merger of RHB and CIMB would make
more sense because with Maybank, there will be a lot more
duplication of assets in terms of branches.”  The combined capitalization of CIMB and RHB would be $27.3
billion, based on yesterday’s closing prices. Maybank could
boost its market worth to $28.8 billion, which would exceed the
$27.7 billion value for  Singapore ’s  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,
Southeast Asia’s largest lender.  ‘Size Matters’  “Size matters in banking,” said Azman Mokhtar, managing
director of Khazanah Nasional Bhd., CIMB’s biggest shareholder.
“As long as it is value-creating, we are generally
supportive,” he told reporters in  Kuala Lumpur  today.  RHB was overtaken last month as Malaysia’s fourth-biggest
lender by assets following Hong Leong’s takeover of EON. RHB has
 operations  spanning all key areas of financial services,
including a branch network, treasury, investment banking and
Islamic finance.  CIMB temporarily overtook Maybank as the country’s biggest
company by market value last year. Its shares have risen 179
percent over the past five years, compared with a 15 percent
increase in Maybank’s stock. Maybank’s shares fell 1.6 percent
to 8.77 ringgit today, while CIMB dropped 0.3 percent to 8.35
ringgit.  Changing Focus  “In the past big players like Maybank thought that it
didn’t make much sense to acquire the bank next door because
there’d be overlapping of customers,” Ang Kok Heng, who
oversees $292 million as chief investment officer at Phillip
Capital Management Sdn., said in a telephone interview. “The
strategy now is different whereby they want to build up a bigger
asset base, which will put them in a better position to compete
for overseas financing mandates.”  RHB’s board will meet to discuss Maybank and CIMB’s
interest, the bank said in an exchange filing today. State-owned
Employees Provident Fund is RHB’s biggest shareholder with a 45
percent stake, followed by  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB) , which
holds 25 percent.  Abu Dhabi Commercial wants to sell its RHB stake and has
appointed  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch & Co. to advise on an exit, Chief Executive
Officer Ala’a Eraiqat said in April.  Foreign Interest  It may sell the stake to its sister company Abu Dhabi
Investment Council after receiving bids from  Japan ’s  Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , an unidentified Chinese bank and
several private equity firms including  Carlyle Group , the  Star 
reported today, citing an unidentified person.  Abu Dhabi Commercial’s planned sale probably helped kick
start the latest round of consolidation among banks in the
Southeast Asian nation, said Scott Lim, who manages the
equivalent of $470 million of assets as chief executive officer
of Kuala Lumpur-based MIDF Amanah Asset Management Bhd.  An RHB merger would spur consolidation among smaller
Malaysian banks, Lim said in a phone interview today. “Either
you stay as a niche bank or you’d better be merging,” he said.
“If you just want to be a second-tier bank, you’d be obsolete
very soon.”  An RHB merger “would be consistent with Maybank’s vision
to become the regional financial services leader,” Maybank said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  To help maintain its lead, Maybank has bought bank stakes
in Indonesia, Pakistan and  Vietnam . Last month, it completed the
S$798 million ($648 million) acquisition of a 44.6 percent stake
in  Kim Eng Holdings Ltd. , a Singapore-based securities and
 investment-banking  group.  CIMB plans to “put forward a value-creating merger” and
“support the national banking consolidation agenda,” Nazir Razak, group chief executive officer, said in a statement
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji in  Hong Kong  at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 