-- 
Clayton-led Group Hires Banks to Arrange Spie LBO Financing

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 
2011-05-31T12:19:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/clayton-led-group-hires-banks-to-arrange-spie-lbo-financing-1-.html
Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC hired
banks to arrange the financing for its 2.1 billion-euro ($3
billion) acquisition of French electrical engineering company
 Spie , according to two people familiar with the situation.  HSBC Holdings Plc, Morgan Stanley and Societe Generale SA
are organizing about 1.5 billion euros of debt, which includes
short-term loans that will be refinanced with bonds, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the deal is
private. Credit Agricole CIB and Deutsche Bank AG have joined as
arrangers, the people said.  Clayton Dubilier, along with Paris-based Axa Private Equity
and Canadian pension-fund manager Caisse de Depot et Placement
du  Quebec , is in exclusive talks to acquire Spie from buyout
firm PAI Partners, according to a joint statement today.  Philip Gawith, a spokesman for Clayton Dubilier, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone call seeking comment. Stephanie
Grace, a spokeswoman for Axa, declined to comment.  PAI Partners  is selling Spie, based near Paris, after
buying it for 980 million euros in 2006. Clayton Dubilier, based
in  New York , beat competition from a group formed by  Carlyle
Group  and Bain Capital LLC and another formed by  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ’s buyout unit and London firm CVC Capital Partners
Ltd., people with knowledge of the matter said previously.  Spie employs 28,600 people in 31 countries, mostly in
 Europe . It generated 3.75 billion euros in sales and 192.3
million euros in operating profit in 2010.  In a leveraged buyout, a buyer funds part of its
acquisition with money borrowed in the target company’s name.
The debt funding the acquisition is typically graded below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  