-- 
Clayton-led Group in Talks to Buy PAI’s Spie for $3 Billion

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-05-31T09:19:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/clayton-led-group-in-talks-to-buy-pai-s-spie-for-3-billion-1-.html
A group led by U.S. buyout firm
Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC is in exclusive talks to buy French
electrical engineering company  Spie  from PAI Partners for 2.1
billion euros ($3 billion).  Clayton Dubilier partnered with Paris-based Axa Private
Equity and Canadian pension-fund manager Caisse de Depot et
Placement du  Quebec  to make a bid, Paris-based PAI said in an e-
mailed joint statement today. Spie is consulting its works
councils about the sale to comply with French  labor laws ,
according to the statement.  “Spie’s management fully supports this project as it
strengthens our position as a leading independent multi-
technical services company, supports Spie’s future growth and
allows for a broad employee share ownership program,” Gauthier Louette, Spie’s chief executive officer, said in the statement.  PAI Partners  is selling Spie, based near Paris, after
buying it for 980 million euros in 2006. Clayton Dubilier, based
in  New York , beat competition from a group formed by  Carlyle
Group  and Bain Capital LLC and another formed by  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ’s buyout unit and London firm CVC Capital Partners
Ltd., people with knowledge of the matter previously said.  Clayton Dubilier used its knowledge from its stake in
French electrical-products distributor Rexel SA, Spie’s largest
supplier, to win the deal, Roberto Quarta, a Clayton Dubilier
partner, said in the statement.  PAI Considering Fund  Spie employs 28,600 people in 31 countries, mostly in
 Europe . It generated 3.75 billion euros in sales and 192.3
million euros in operating profit in 2010.  PAI Partners, which manages a 2.7 billion-euro fund, is
seeking to return cash to investors as it prepares to test
interest in a new pool by the end of this year, people with
knowledge of the matter previously said. The firm, whose current
fund was slashed by 50 percent after its two most senior
executives left in 2009, entered talks to sell its stake in
yogurt maker Yoplait to General Mills in March after agreeing to
sell U.K. tire retailer Kwik-Fit Group Ltd. to Itochu Corp. this
year. It also sold its stake in Italian department store chain
Gruppo Coin SpA to  BC Partners  this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  