-- 
Colombia’s Credit Rating Raised to Investment Grade by Moody’s; Peso Gains

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   B i l l   K o e n i g
-- 
2011-05-31T19:06:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/colombia-s-credit-rating-raised-to-investment-grade-by-moody-s-peso-gains.html
Colombia ’s credit rating was raised
to investment grade by Moody’s Investors Service, matching a
move by Standard & Poor’s two months earlier, as economic growth
accelerates and the threat posed by guerrilla groups and
organized crime recedes.  Moody’s upgraded Colombia to Baa3, the lowest level of
investment grade, from Ba1. The move puts Colombia’s rating on
par with  Brazil ,  Peru  and  Panama . The outlook is stable.
Colombia was boosted to BBB- by S&P on March 16.  “Security concerns, historically a major issue for
Colombia, have not disappeared, but have been waning after
several major government wins against domestic guerrilla
groups,” Moody’s said in a statement accompanying its decision.  The yield on Colombia’s 6.125 percent dollar bonds due
January 2014 fell 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to
5.52 percent at 2:41 p.m.  New York  time, according to Bloomberg
prices. That its lowest level on a closing basis since November.
The peso jumped 1.1 percent to 1,788.85 per dollar while the
IGBC stock index rose 1 percent to 14,537.90.  Colombia recovered its investment-grade ratings from
Moody’s and S&P 11 years after it was cut to junk when insurgent
violence and a banking crisis helped trigger six straight
quarters of economic contraction between 1998 and 1999. Fitch
Ratings rates Colombia’s foreign bonds BB+, one level below
investment grade.  ‘New Money’  Following the upgrade by S&P, a second investment-grade
rating was needed by either Moody’s or Fitch for Colombian
assets to be included in most investment-grade portfolios.  “We will probably see new money coming into Colombia,”
Donato Guarino, a strategist at Barclays Capital Inc., said in a
phone interview from New York. “There is marginal upside for
Colombia dollar bonds as the passive index tracker investor
demands more” Colombia securities, he said.  Following the peso’s jump today, Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry told reporters that Colombia will continue to
monitor gains in the currency and said the government “has
tools” to ease gains.  Colombia has cut its homicide rate by almost half since
2002, when former President  Alvaro Uribe  took office, and
boosted investor confidence by cutting debt levels, maintaining
stable inflation and increasing economic growth.  The nation grew at its fastest pace in three decades in
2007 and attracted a record $10.6 billion in foreign direct
investment in 2008. The government expects the economy to grow
as much as 6 percent this year, while forecasting foreign direct
investment to reach $8 billion this year.  More FDI  Hernando Jose Gomez, the head of Colombia’s National
Planning Department, told reporters today that the upgrade  will
likely help foreign direct investment rise to $14 billion by
2014.  A bill known as the fiscal rule, that seeks to reduce debt,
limits spending and helps ease gains in the peso by creating a
stabilization fund abroad is currently being discussed in
Congress. The measure is scheduled for a vote before the current
session of Congress ends in June.  President  Juan Manuel Santos  has said Colombia will have a
balanced budget by the end of his term in 2014. The government
forecasts the central government will have a  budget deficit 
equal to 4.1 percent of gross domestic product this year, up
from 3.8 percent in 2010, while the consolidated budget deficit
will widen to 3.5 percent, up from 3.2 percent last year.  The upgrade comes a day after the Peruvian, Chilean and
Colombian stock markets began integrated trading, the first such
arrangement between bourses in  Latin America .  The move will further spur investment in Colombia from the
combined pool of savings in Chilean and Peruvian pension funds,
said Camilo Rubiano, head of research at brokerage Afin SA.  “We’ve recovered the world’s confidence -- they see us in
a better light after all the violence we lived through,”
Rubiano said, “We’ve done our homework on fiscal policies and
we’ve protected ourselves against global risks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Koenig in Detroit at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  