-- 
Commodities Post Biggest Monthly Drop in Year on Greek Debt, China Outlook

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-05-31T21:36:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/commodities-snap-best-winning-streak-since-1980-on-european-debt-china.html
Commodities posted the biggest
monthly drop in a year as the sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe 
and accelerating inflation in China fanned speculation that
global economic growth will slow.  This month, the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw
materials dropped 6.8 percent, the first decline since August
and the biggest drop since May 2010. Silver led the slide,
slumping 21 percent, followed by nickel, and crude oil slid
almost 10 percent. The gauge gained 1.2 percent today.  Central banks raised  interest rates  to slow inflation,
which climbed to a 32-month high in China, exceeding the
government’s 4 percent target. In May, the euro dropped against
the dollar, snapping a five-month rally, amid the region’s
escalating debt woes.  “The May sell-off is a broad-based risk-averse move coming
from a combination of concerns about Europe’s debt crisis,
 China ’s inflation and U.S. data,” said Andy Kaleel, the chief
executive officer of Sydney-based H3 Global Advisors Pty Ltd.,
which manages about A$600 million ($642 million).  European Union leaders will decide on a new aid package for
 Greece  by the end of next month, said Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude
Juncker , who leads the group of euro-area finance ministers.  The region’s financial problems aren’t confined to Greece,
and a reorganization of the continent’s banking system is
necessary, Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive officer of
BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager, said today in
a Bloomberg Television interview.  ‘Beyond Greece’  “The European problem is way beyond Greece,” Fink said.
“Greece is the most immediate problem. I find it very difficult
to restructure Greece without the understanding that we’re
probably going to have to restructure Ireland and  Portugal .”  The Chinese central bank has raised  reserve requirements  at
banks eight times since November and increased interest rates
four times since October.  This month, the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities
fell 2.5 percent this month, the most since August.  Silver’s monthly drop was the biggest since August 2008.
Today, futures for July delivery rose 44.2 cents, or 1.2
percent, to $38.305 an ounce on the Comex in  New York . CME Group
Inc., the Comex owner, raised margin costs after the metal
climbed to a 31-year-high on April 25. The price has more than
doubled in the past 12 months.  Silver may fall below $30, Dominic Schnider, an analyst at
UBS AG’s wealth management research, said in a report dated
yesterday. The higher price “cannot be sustained by industrial
demand,” he said. Silver is used in jewelry, electronics and
photography.  In May, crude oil on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  fell
9.9 percent, the biggest drop in a year, partly on concern that
Europe’s debt crisis will erode fuel demand.  This month, nickel on the London Metal Exchange dropped 12
percent. OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the world’s largest producer,
said on May 23 the market will return to balance this year from
the 2010 deficit as production increases at a faster rate than
consumption.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Poole  at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 