-- 
Connecticut Man Indicted for Selling Explosives made From Cardboard Tubes

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-31T21:52:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/connecticut-man-indicted-for-selling-explosives-made-from-cardboard-tubes.html
Nicholas Lahines, a Bridgeport,
Connecticut man arrested in  New York  earlier this month, was
indicted today by the U.S. for making and selling improvised
explosives created from cardboard tubes.  Lahines, 37, was arrested May 19 by federal agents with the
Joint Terrorism Task Force at a parking lot in the New York
borough of the Bronx, said prosecutors in the office of U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan. Police found eight
cardboard cylindrical objects containing explosives, Bharara’s
office said in a statement.  Law enforcement authorities suspected in April that Lahines
was involved in distributing explosive devices, prosecutors
said. Authorities conducted surveillance of him on May 19 by
following him from his home to the Bronx. Lahines met there with
an unidentified confidential source working with the Joint
Terrorism Task Force and sold eight devices for $3,200, the U.S.
said.  Lahines “was very proud of his bomb-making prowess, and
more than happy to offer specific instructions on how to
detonate his creations to maximize the harm they caused,”
Bharara said in a statement. “The fact that he is in custody
and no longer a danger to the public is a measure of how
seriously we, along with our law enforcement partners, take the
illegal manufacture and sale of explosives.”  Glass, Metal  Lahines was indicted today with five offenses, including a
charge of making and dealing in explosive materials without a
license, punishable by up to 10 years in prison. He was also
charged with making and dealing in a firearm as well as a charge
of transporting a destructive device, both of which are
punishable by as much as five years in prison.  Lahines told the source that he had added glass and metal,
such as ball bearings, within the devices, prosecutors said. He
is scheduled to be arraigned before U.S. District Judge Leonard Sand on June 2.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Henry Pitman in  Manhattan  on May 20
ordered Lahines detained, saying he was a danger to the
community.  The case is U.S. v. Nicholas Lahines, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 