-- 
Conrad Black Rejected by U.S. High Court on Hearing Over Fraud Conviction

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-05-31T15:59:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/conrad-black-rejected-by-u-s-high-court-on-hearing-over-fraud-conviction.html
Conrad Black  lost a bid for a second
U.S. Supreme Court hearing on his corporate fraud conviction as
the justices left intact a ruling that may send the former
Hollinger International Inc. chairman back to prison.  A year after ruling for Black on one issue in his case, the
 high court  today turned away his follow-up appeal, which sought
to overturn the remaining two counts of his conviction for fraud
and obstruction of justice.  The rebuff leaves Black facing the prospect that he will
receive little if any benefit from last year’s ruling. He is
scheduled to be resentenced June 24 in Chicago, and federal
prosecutors are asking U.S. District Judge Amy J. St. Eve to re-
impose the 6 1/2-year sentence he received after his 2007
conviction.  Black, 66, and three other former Hollinger executives were
found guilty of illegally taking $6.1 million from the Chicago-
based newspaper company as they engineered the sale of its
assets.  “A decision by the  Supreme Court  not to review a case is
not a ruling on the merits, and it does not remotely suggest
that the decision below was correct,” Miguel Estrada, Black’s
attorney, said in an e-mail. A lower court ruling that upheld
part of Black’s conviction “was not merely erroneous,” Estrada
said. “It was a complete travesty.”  Narrowed Scope  The Supreme Court last year used Black’s case, along with
that of former Enron Corp. Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Skilling, to narrow the scope of a federal law that criminalizes
so-called honest-services fraud.  The effect of that ruling on Black’s four-count conviction
wasn’t immediately clear because prosecutors had presented the
jury with two theories -- one focusing on honest-services fraud
and the other alleging the theft of money -- and the two sides
disagreed over what role each theory played in the jury verdict.  A federal appeals court in  Chicago  set aside two counts,
leaving intact convictions for obstruction of justice and for
fraud connected to a $600,000 payment made to Black and other
company officials.  Discussing the fraud conviction, the panel said the
evidence of theft was “so compelling that no reasonable jury
could have refused to convict” Black, former Chief Financial
Officer John A. Boultbee and former Vice President Peter Atkinson.  Legal Standard  Black, Boultbee and Atkinson argued in their joint Supreme
Court appeal that the appeals court used the wrong legal
standard.  “There is more than a reasonable likelihood that the jury
convicted petitioners for conduct that is not a crime,” their
lawyers argued.  The  Justice Department  urged the Supreme Court not to hear
the appeal.  Black was freed on bail in July after the Supreme Court
ruling, having served two years and four months of his term.  Under Black’s leadership, first as chief executive officer,
then as chairman, Hollinger was the world’s third-largest
publisher of English language newspapers. Its holdings included
the  Chicago Sun-Times ,  Canada ’s National Post, the U.K.’s Daily
Telegraph and the Jerusalem Post. Hollinger is now known as Sun-
Times Media Group Inc.  The Supreme Court case is Black v.  United States , 10-1038.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 