-- 
Copper May Rally as Bull Market Undamaged, Sarin Says: Technical Analysis

-- B y   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 
2011-05-31T02:07:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/copper-may-rally-as-bull-market-undamaged-sarin-says-technical-analysis.html
Copper’s bull market is intact and
the three-month contract on the London Metal Exchange may rally
to an all-time high should an initial target price be surpassed,
according to a technical analysis from  Barclays Capital .  “The bull trend remains undamaged,” Dhiren Sarin, Asian
chief technical strategist, said in an interview. The price may
gain to $9,945 per metric ton in the next three months and, if
that’s broken, it may climb to $10,300, Sarin said. Copper’s
record is $10,190, set Feb. 15, and it traded at $9,147 today.  The upper panel of the attached chart shows copper has been
forming a so-called summer base when traced against a three-year
trend line that connects the metal’s lows, Sarin said. The lower
panel shows the metal’s so-called Z score, which tracks how many
standard deviations the price is away from the average. Z scores
of -2 show that the price may be bottoming, Sarin said.  Three-month copper has fallen 10 percent since setting the
record and it’s on course for a third monthly decline in May.
The metal, used in wiring and pipes, rallied 30 percent last
year and more than doubled in 2009.  “For the time being, a range is likely as the market is
above its lows from the final quarter of 2010,” he said. Copper
touched a low of $7,920 on Nov. 17. “The idea is that copper
should base in the summer and we get an upside move on the one-
to-three-month horizon.”  In  technical analysis , analysts and investors study charts
of trading patterns to predict changes in a security, commodity,
currency or index. A standard deviation is a statistical tool
that measures how much variation there is from the average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 Kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  