-- 
Copper Climbs to Three-Week High as Greek May Receive More Aid

-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-05-31T14:37:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/copper-climbs-to-three-week-high-as-greek-may-receive-more-aid.html
Copper rose to a three-week high in
New York amid signs that nations will pledge more aid for
 Greece , boosting global growth prospects.  European Union leaders will decide on additional assistance
for Greece by the end of June and have ruled out a “total
restructuring” of the nation’s debt,  Jean-Claude Juncker , who
leads the group of euro-area finance ministers, said yesterday
in Paris. Stocks rose around the world and the euro climbed.  “We are seeing a macro-based move,” said  Adam
Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist at Lind-Waldock in
Chicago. Optimism that there will be more aid “is causing
people to embrace risk,” he said.  Copper futures for July delivery gained 1.75 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $4.2035 a pound at 10:34 a.m. on the Comex in  New
York . Earlier, the price touched $4.2095, the highest since May
4. The Comex was closed yesterday for a holiday.  Before today, the metal dropped 10 percent since touching a
record $4.6575 on Feb. 15 partly on concern that global
sovereign-debt woes and high U.S. unemployment would derail the
global recovery.  Inspectors from the EU, the International Monetary Fund and
the  European Central Bank  are set to wrap up a review of
Greece’s progress in meeting the terms of last year’s 110
billion-euro ($158 billion) bailout in coming days. The EU will
then formulate its plan for further aid to Greece, which remains
shut out of financial markets a year after the rescue package.  On the  London  Metal Exchange, three-month delivery copper
rose $67, or 0.7 percent, to $9,266 a metric ton ($4.21 a
pound).  Nickel, lead, aluminum and tin also gained in London. Zinc
was little changed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  