-- 
Czech Premier Seeks to Save Coalition With Health Compromise

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-06-01T15:21:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/czech-premier-may-urge-deficit-cuts-as-coalition-tensions-rise.html
Czech Prime Minister Petr Necas will
try to save his coalition today by seeking a compromise on a
health-care overhaul after his partners threatened to leave the
government and strip his parliamentary majority.  Leaders of the three ruling parties began a meeting today
at 4 p.m. in  Prague  to debate the legislation after a spat in
April triggered a government shuffle. Public Affairs, the
smallest party, said it may quit the government if Necas refuses
to accept its demands for Cabinet changes.  “We can’t exclude the possibility of more severe tensions
ahead, particularly in June, when a confidence vote is likely to
take place,”  Jaromir Sindel , Citigroup Inc.’s Prague-based
chief economist for the  Czech Republic  and Slovakia, said in a
note to clients on May 30. “This could hamper key reforms that
are on schedule in the near term.”  The koruna has weakened as the coalition’s bickering
threatens the government’s budget plans that helped boost Czech
bonds. Necas, who last year assembled the largest majority since
independence in 1993, pledged to cut the  budget deficit  to less
than the EU’s limit of 3 percent of economic output, calling the
health-care overhaul a centerpiece of his agenda.  The yield on five-year government debt fell 9 basis points
to 2.73 percent in the past year, the second-best performance
among European Union members behind the U.K, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on German debt of similar
maturity rose 76 basis points in the period.  Koruna Drops  The Czech currency has weakened 2 percent against the euro
since April 26, the first trading day after Necas said his
government would have no reason to stay in power unless it can
pass legislation to cut public spending by the end of June. That
was the world’s third-worst performance behind the Maldives
rufiyaa and the Turkish lira.  The Cabinet will send laws overhauling spending to
parliament by the end of June and will tie them to a confidence
vote, Necas said on April 19.  The EU’s second largest ex-communist economy had two
minority governments and two interim Cabinets in the past 13
years, stalling budget measures. In 2009, the administration of
Mirek Topolanek lost a no-confidence motion halfway through the
country’s six-month term as EU president.  The koruna is still up 5.3 percent since the May 2010
elections, the best performance among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It was 0.16 percent stronger at
24.517 to the euro as of 5:30 p.m. in Prague, after weakening
0.2 percent yesterday.  The government’s goals include overhauling the deficit-
plagued pay-as-you-go pension system, boosting private savings
for retirement, and revamping the state health program which may
make exclude some treatments from public insurance.  Deputy Premier Quits  Tensions inside the Cabinet rose when Public Affairs leader
Radek John quit as deputy prime minister on May 11, accusing
Necas interfering with his right to select his own team for
fighting corruption.  Public Affairs also demand that Necas dismiss Defense
Minister Alexander Vondra, Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek
and Agriculture Minister Ivan Fuksa. The smallest party holds
two Cabinet posts, two less than agreed in the coalition treaty.  Public Affairs, also known as VV, “recommends to its
ministers and members of parliament to leave into opposition”
if Necas “doesn’t fulfill the coalition agreement, doesn’t give
VV a respectable position in the government and doesn’t abandon
personal attacks against VV,” according to a resolution
approved at a party meeting on May 29.  While the coalition parties agreed that workers will be
able to divert part of their mandatory pension insurance
payments into private accounts beginning in 2013, the ministries
have yet to draft the required legislation.  ‘Key Reforms’  “The debate about the personnel makeup of the Cabinet
can’t take precedence over an agreement on key reforms,” he
said yesterday.  Even with the squabbling, Public Affairs may not want to
trigger early elections because its popularity has declined
since the 2010 elections.  Public Affairs would get 2.3 percent of the vote if
elections were held now, below the 5 percent needed to gain
seats in parliament, according to a poll by Prague-based Stem
conducted May 2-9. Public Affairs won 10.9 percent in last
year’s elections.  Poll Results  Necas’ Civic Democrats were backed by 13.8 percent of those
surveyed, compared with 20.2 percent during the elections.
Support for TOP09, the third coalition member, was 10.3 percent,
down from 16.7 percent. The poll of 1,219 people had a margin of
error of 1.5 to 2.5 percentage points.  The three parties, which hold 115 votes in the 200-seat
lower house of parliament, wouldn’t be able to form a majority
government if elections were held today, according to the poll.
The opposition  Social Democrats  were the most popular party in
the poll, garnering the support of 27.8 percent of those
surveyed, up from 22.1 percent last year.  “We know that VV will be finished in parliamentary
politics as early as elections are held,” Jiri Pehe, a
political analyst and director of  New York University  in Prague,
said by phone on May 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  