-- 
Debt Ceiling Breach May Hurt Dollar More Than Treasuries, Citigroup Says

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-05-31T19:23:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/debt-ceiling-breach-may-hurt-dollar-more-than-treasuries-citigroup-says.html
A breach of the U.S. debt ceiling may
affect the dollar more than Treasuries because international
holders of the debt may view the risk of permanent losses
greater than domestic investors, according to Citigroup Inc.  “The foreign exchange reaction to a debt ceiling breach
would be sharper and probably more permanent,” Steven Englander, the head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy in
 New York  at Citigroup, wrote in a note today. “It would
legitimately tax foreign investor patience and lead to further
dollar dumping whenever the opportunity arises.”  Foreign investors who don’t hedge against swings in the
value of currencies with strategies such as options can’t be
guaranteed that prices will recover if volatility climbs as
lawmakers fail to reach agreement on extending the legal amount
the U.S. can borrow, Englander said. Congress has until Aug. 2
to find a way to avoid default after the amount the government
can borrow was reached May 16.  The House of Representatives today will vote on increasing
the $14.3 trillion threshold by $2.4 trillion. Senate Republican
leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky has said his party wants
“significant” cuts in spending and no tax increases as a
condition for raising the limit.  “If it’s a U.S.-based sovereign crisis, the dollar will
ultimately lose value,” said Greg Anderson, a senior currency
strategist at Citigroup. “If there’s a parallel crisis in
 Europe , then probably the better alternative currencies are
those that are not fiscally challenged: Canada,  Australia ,  New
Zealand , Norway, Sweden. They didn’t have the same fiscal
problems.”  The  U.S. dollar  fell 7.2 percent in the past year against
the Canadian currency, 17 percent versus New Zealand’s dollar
and 21 percent compared with the Australian dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  