-- 
Defense Spending No Longer ‘Sacred Cow’ to Republicans Searching for Cuts

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-05-31T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/defense-spending-no-longer-sacred-cow-to-republicans-searching-for-cuts.html
As the House Budget Committee worked
on a Republican plan to cut more than $6 trillion of  government
spending  over a decade, the panel’s senior Democrat proposed a
symbolic amendment saying national security costs should be
included in any responsible deficit-reduction effort.  Seventeen of 22 committee Republicans, including Chairman
Paul Ryan of  Wisconsin , joined all 16 Democrats in an April 6
vote backing Maryland Representative Chris Van Hollen’s measure.  For the party of  Ronald Reagan , who made bountiful Pentagon
budgets a cornerstone of his “peace through strength” foreign
policy, it was a telling vote: As anti-tax, small-government Tea
Party sympathizers gain influence, defense is no longer
sacrosanct for Republicans.  “Historically, you’ve had a lot of Republicans who have
refused even to consider the possibility of cuts in the area of
defense,” said first-term Republican Senator  Mike Lee  of Utah.
“I don’t think we have that luxury anymore.”  That makes the Pentagon budget -- more than half of federal
discretionary spending -- a target for potential compromise as
Congress and the White House seek a package of cuts before
voting to raise the government’s $14.3 trillion debt limit. How
much is cut hinges on how much freshly elected deficit-busters
can win over earlier generations of defense hawks.  “A lot of the new members recognize that if we are going
to be serious about  deficit reduction , you can’t have any sacred
cows and you have to take a hard look at defense,” said Van
Hollen, a member of a bipartisan group negotiating a debt-
reduction plan with Vice President Joe Biden. “The budget
committee vote was a clear indication that there’s a lot of room
for discussion.”  Budget Grows  Annual defense spending has grown every year since 1998,
rising 155 percent to $690 billion in 2010 from $270 billion.
That tops a 147 percent jump in annual Medicare outlays and an
86 percent increase in Social Security payments over the same
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  in January proposed a five-
year spending plan with $78 billion of net savings from
canceling some programs, reducing troop numbers and cutting
overhead. Republicans backed Gates’s goal in a budget plan that
passed the House in April.  “We’re not just talking about cutting things that we don’t
like, while not cutting things that we like,” said South
Carolina Republican Mick Mulvaney, a budget committee member.  ‘Aggressive Group’  First-term Republican Representative Joe Walsh of  Illinois 
said he’s among lawmakers pushing Republican leaders to cut even
deeper. “There’s a fairly aggressive group of us that wants us
to take a close look at defense,” he said.  On April 13, President  Barack Obama  proposed an additional
$400 billion in national security cuts over 12 years. Gates has
ordered a Pentagon-wide spending review to identify potential
savings.  After dropping on news of Obama’s plan, most defense
contractor stocks have recovered ground. The 13-member Standard
& Poor’s 500 Aerospace and Defense Index, which fell 1.2 percent
in two days after the announcement, has since risen 3.1 percent.
 Raytheon Co. (RTN)  slid 3.8 percent on April 13-14 and has since
gained 3.7 percent;  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , after a 2.5 percent
two-day fall, has rebounded 5.9 percent.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,
the biggest defense contractor, fell 3.3 percent over two days
and has since gained 0.6 percent.  Investor Confidence  The cost of insuring bonds sold by Raytheon, Northrop
Grumman, Lockheed Martin,  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and  Boeing Co. (BA) 
has fallen, a sign of rising investor confidence in their
creditworthiness. On average, the annual cost for five-year
credit default swaps on those companies fell to 46.88 basis
points, or about 47 cents per $100 of debt, on May 27 from 51.23
on April 14, according to CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME) 
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. One basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Gates has said Boeing’s new Air Force refueling tanker,
Lockheed Martin’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, plans to build more
Navy ships and new ballistic missile submarines are among
programs that should be funded.  Unless Congress slashes more deeply than Obama has talked
about, weapons makers may not be hurt as much as investors
initially feared, said Byron Callan, a defense analyst with
Capital Alpha Partners LLC in  Washington .  ‘More Resilience’  “Those stocks could hold up with a little more resilience
than people had expected,” Callan said.  The challenge of trimming weapons programs was illustrated
in a 2012 defense authorization bill that the House approved on
May 26, with Republicans voting 227-6 in favor. The bill
includes $272 million more than the Pentagon requested for the
General Dynamics Abrams battle tank and would keep alive --
ignoring Obama’s veto threat --  General Electric Co. (GE)  and Rolls-
Royce Group Plc’s work on a second engine the military says it
doesn’t need for Lockheed’s F-35 fighter.  Republican leaders so far haven’t committed to cutting
deeper than Gates’s initial $78 billion recommendation. “I
would not be for that,” said  Arizona ’s Jon Kyl, the second-
ranking Senate Republican and a participant in Biden’s
negotiations.  That view could cost some Republican lawmakers, said former
Republican House Majority Leader Dick Armey, who started the
Washington-based group FreedomWorks, which backs Tea Party goals
of low taxes and less government.  “If you think you can sit in office and be a zealot on
cutting everything except your pet projects, it don’t work that
way,” Armey said. “An awful lot of activists in the Tea Party
movement are veterans who had hands on experience with wasteful
and inefficient spending in the Defense Department.”  ‘Light Cut’  Gates’s proposed reduction represents about 2.5 percent of
Pentagon spending over five years and is little more than a
“light cut,” said  Todd Harrison , a defense analyst with the
nonpartisan Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessment
research group in Washington.  Michael O’Hanlon, a senior fellow at the Washington-based
 Brookings Institution , said even national security hawks should
be open to considering cuts “because our economic picture is so
serious.” he said. Still, he said defense cuts “entail risk”
and lawmakers should spread reductions to include entitlement
programs such as Medicare.  As leaders from both parties say some areas are off limits
in the debt talks, including higher taxes and Social Security
changes, defense may emerge as a key to any deal. Lawmakers in
the Biden negotiations have so far identified about $200 billion
of savings they can agree on,  Van Hollen  said -- nowhere close
to trillions of dollars Republicans say they want in exchange
for raising the government debt limit.  Higher Up Tree  “There’s not much low-hanging fruit,” said Robert Bixby,
executive director of the Concord Coalition, which advocates
deep deficit cutting. “They need to climb higher up the tree.”  Oklahoma Republican Representative Tom Cole, whose district
includes the Army’s Fort Sill and Tinker Air Force Base, said
savings beyond the Gates plan aren’t popular in his party and,
at the least, would require concessions by Democrats on
domestic-spending cuts.  “To further reduce defense while you’re spending more in
other areas, I think that would certainly be a tough sell to
those Republicans who are security hawks, and that’s a big part
of the Republican base,” Cole said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  