-- 
Dell Explores Acquisitions to Widen Lead in Internet Servers

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-05-31T11:45:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/dell-explores-acquisitions-to-widen-lead-in-market-for-internet-servers.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  said it is exploring
acquisitions to bolster its data center business, as the company
aims to widen its lead in supplying computer servers that run
the Web services of clients such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Baidu Inc.  “We want to continue to bring innovation through
acquisitions,” Amit Midha, head of Dell’s operations in the
 China  and South Asia regions, said at a briefing in  Hong Kong 
today. Dell is interested in buying “everything around data
centers,” an area of business that is contributing half the
company’s profit, he said.  Dell is gaining orders from Chinese Internet companies
including Baidu,  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , and Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd. for computer servers underpinning search-engine,
online commerce, and social-networking services, Midha said.
 Round Rock , Texas-based Dell is parlaying its experience in
supplying technology to Google and Facebook Inc. in the U.S. to
win in China, the world’s biggest Internet market by users.  Dell has about 70 percent of the market for servers running
the data centers of so-called cloud services in the U.S., and
about 60 percent of the market in China, according to Midha.  Demand from data center operators helped Dell more than
double net income last quarter to $945 million from $341
million, the company reported this month. Dell bought data-
storage company Compellent Technologies for about $800 million
in February.  Dell, the world’s second-biggest maker of personal
computers, plans to double the number of service centers in
China this year to 2,000, Midha said. The company will also
expand its sales network in the Asian country, at present
comprising of about 15,000 outlets, Midha said.  China recently became Dell’s biggest market outside the
U.S., Midha said, without specifying when that happened.  Dell will start selling a larger version of its “Streak”
tablet computer later this year in China, where the company
currently offers a model with a screen measuring about 5 inches,
Midha said. Dell also plans to offer more smartphones in the
country, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  