-- 
Demag Cranes Says $1.3 Billion Terex Bid Is ‘Inadequate’

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-05-31T17:24:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/demag-cranes-says-1-3-billion-terex-bid-is-inadequate-1-.html
Demag Cranes AG (D9C)  rebuffed a $1.3
billion takeover offer from  Terex Corp. (TEX) , reinforcing opposition
already voiced by the German crane maker’s largest shareholder.  Board members considered “all relevant circumstances”
surrounding the offer and advise that investors should not
accept the offer, Dusseldorf-based Demag said in a statement.
The “reasoned opinion” supporting their decision will be
published in full later today, it said.  A takeover would be the material-handling industry’s
largest in at least a decade. Terex’s bid, which followed an
approach for Demag by  Konecranes Oyj (KCR1V)  in February, was deemed
“completely inadequate” by Cevian Capital earlier this month
as the Stockholm-based fund ramped up pressure on Terex to
increase its offer. Demag said Terex has yet to offer any
dialogue on the tender offer.  “It is not possible at the current time to conclusively
assess the strategic aims pursued in the offer or any other
intentions of the bidder - including with regard to locations
and jobs - especially in light of the fact that Terex has not
initiated any discussions,” Demag said.  Shares of the company added 0.5 percent to 45.8 euros in
Frankfurt trading as of 1:56 p.m. Terex offered 41.75 euros on
May 19.  “We may comment publicly over the course of the next few
days, after we have had the opportunity to fully evaluate what
the management of Demag AG has said,” Michael Bazinet, a
spokesman for Westport, Connecticut-based Terex, said in an e-
mail today. “For now, we do not plan to issue a statement.”  The German crane maker signaled it expects an operating
profit margin of about 6.4 percent for fiscal 2011, compared
with 5.8 percent in the prior year. Sales are forecast to total
1.06 billion euros ($1.52 billion), ahead of an earlier target
of 1.02 billion euros to 1.05 billion euros, Demag said in a
separate statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  