-- 
Royal Kate Leads Way With Sapphire Ring

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-05-31T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/diamonds-not-forever-as-royal-kate-leads-way-with-sapphire-ring.html
Diamonds have long been a girl’s best
friend. Now, as fiancees-to-be hunt for unique baubles,
sapphires, rubies and emeralds are winning favor, too.  “I love to stand out, so we picked something different,”
said Sarah DeRemer, a medical technician from Broadway,  New
Jersey , who got engaged last month with a sapphire ring she and
her fiance had designed.  The colored-stone trend got a lift with singer Jessica Simpson’s ruby-and-diamond combination and royal bride  Kate Middleton ’s sapphire-and-diamond ring. Couples increasingly want
an alternative to the traditional white gems, which some still
associate with the “ blood diamonds ” used to finance African
civil wars.  Sapphires have been growing more popular, says Andrew
Schloss, brand director at jeweler  Reinstein Ross  in New York.
“Fancy color” diamonds are also catching on, and  Tiffany &
Co. (TIF) , which has sold them throughout its more than 170-year
history, last year introduced a  yellow diamond  collection.  “It’s very popular right now to do colored stones,”
Schloss said. “They’re happy colors, they’re very warm.”  Pink is the most popular, according to Heather Levine, the
senior fashion editor at  TheKnot.com , a bridal planning website.
 Jennifer Lopez , who in 2002 got engaged to  Ben Affleck  with a
6.1-carat pink diamond ring, started the trend of using colored
stones, Levine said.  ‘Comfortable’  “It’s continuing to be present in the media and therefore
brides are more comfortable with the idea,” Levine said.  Americans spent $6.12 billion on engagement rings in 2010,
for an average of $3,465 a ring, according to a report last
month from industry tracker  Wedding Report Inc.   While outlays on wedding bands gained 6.5 percent from
2006, spending on engagement rings dropped 31 percent, the data
show. In the wake of the 2008 recession, couples became “much
more aware of what they can afford,” said Shane McMurray, who
runs the Tuscon, Arizona-based Wedding Report.  A good-quality, 1-carat diamond ranges in price from
$5,500 to $11,000, said Donald Palmieri, New York-based
president of the Gem Certification and Assurance Lab. Same-size
rubies max out at about $4,000, blue sapphires cost from $1,600
to $2,000, while emeralds cost more than $8,000, he said.  ‘Gone Tomorrow’  Depending on their quality and rarity, colored gemstones
can cost more than diamonds, says Russell Shor, senior industry
analyst at Carlsbad, California-based  Gemological Institute of
America . Most quality rubies are found in Myanmar, where a trade
embargo makes the gems “extremely scarce,” Shor said. While
diamonds are mined by large companies such as  Anglo American
Plc (AAL) ’s  De Beers ,  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , colored
gemstones “tend to be in very small pockets,” and it isn’t
worth building an infrastructure to mine a deposit that will
only last a few years, Shor said.  “Most of the colored stones are sort of here today, gone
tomorrow,” he said.  Rubies  and sapphires, which are both made of the same
mineral, corundum, are “quite durable,” according to John
Watkins, an independent goldsmith in Lake Nacimiento,
 California . On the Mohs scale, which measures minerals’ hardness
from 1 to 10, corundum ranks at 9. Diamonds are a 10 and almost
four times harder than corundum.  Ever since  De Beers ’s “A Diamond is Forever” 1948
advertising campaign, the precious stones have been the leading
choice for engagement rings -- and 96 percent of them had
diamonds last year, according to the Wedding Report.  ‘Very Pleased’  Colored diamonds from New York-based Tiffany’s gives
brides-to-be color without forcing them to stray from the
traditional stone. The company is “very pleased” with the
introduction of the yellow diamond collection and expects it to
be “successful for many years,” Mark Aaron, Tiffany’s vice
president of  investor relations , said on a March 21 conference
call.  People gave fiancee DeRemer, 22, “the craziest looks when
I told them I wanted a sapphire ring instead of a diamond
ring,” she said. “I just told them it was my ring, not theirs.
I had dreamed about the ring, I made pictures on Photoshop to
try to get something we could show. Seeing it come to life, it
was just amazing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in  New York  at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  