-- 
Dollar Comeback Produces Best Asset Returns for First Time Since November

-- B y   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-06-01T16:29:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/dollar-comeback-produces-highest-asset-returns-for-1st-time-since-november.html
The dollar beat stocks, commodities
and bonds in its first monthly gain since November, as the euro-
region debt crisis deepened and evidence mounted that the global
economic recovery is losing momentum.  The U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback versus
the currencies of six major trading partners, rose 2.2 percent
in May. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of equities fell 2.45 percent last
month, while the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of 24
commodities tumbled 6.89 percent and bonds of all types returned
1.1 percent on average, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index.  Traders fled the euro in favor of the dollar on concern
Greece may still default on its debt and as the  Federal Reserve 
prepares to stop printing cash to buy Treasuries in a policy
known as quantitative easing. At the same time, economists are
cutting their growth forecasts, boosting demand for the relative
safety of fixed-income assets while diminishing the
attractiveness of stocks and commodities.  “The main thing that’s been helping the dollar has been
the debt problems in the euro-zone,” said Peter Rosenstreich,
chief currency analyst at Swissquote Bank SA in Geneva,
 Switzerland ’s largest online currency broker. “We’re still
bearish on the dollar. The Fed isn’t going to be hiking until at
least mid-2012.”  Dollar Rebound  The greenback’s appreciation in May followed five
consecutive monthly declines totaling 11.1 percent as measured
by IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s U.S. Dollar Index. The gauge
ended last month at 74.537, up from 72.933 on April 29.  Among the 16 most-widely traded currencies,  South Africa ’s
rand fell the most, losing 3.43 percent, followed by a 2.78
percent drop in the euro and 2.73 percent decline in the Danish
krone.  New Zealand ’s dollar was one of two currencies to rise,
gaining 1.73 percent, followed by the Swiss franc’s 1.32 percent
jump, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The euro weakened against every major currency except the
rand. European Union leaders will decide on additional aid for
 Greece  by the end of June and have ruled out a “total
restructuring” of the nation’s debt, Jean-Claude Juncker, head
of the group of euro-area finance ministers, said May 30.  Greece Review  Inspectors from the EU, the  International Monetary Fund  and
the  European Central Bank  are set to wrap up a review of
Greece’s progress in meeting the terms of last year’s 110
billion-euro ($158 billion) bailout in the next few days. The EU
will then formulate its plan for further aid to Greece, which
remains shut out of financial markets a year after the rescue.  Greek two-year yields reached 27.19 percent on May 24,
while 10-year yields climbed to a record 17.10 percent he same
day. Portuguese 10-year yields rose to 9.85 percent, the most
since before the euro was created in 1999. Equivalent-maturity
Irish yields touched a record 11.19 percent on May 27.  Gains in the dollar and franc, traditional havens in times
of economic and geopolitical crises, reflect growing concern
that global growth is decelerating just as the Fed ends its
second round of quantitative easing, or QE2, totaling $600
billion this month.  “As we come to the end of QE2, the market has anticipated
that possibly U.S. yields will move higher, attracting support
back to the dollar,” said  Adrian Foster , head of financial-
market research for  Asia  at Rabobank Groep NV in  Hong Kong .  ‘Below-Trend’ Growth  Growth in global gross domestic product will slow to a
‘below-trend’ 2.6 percent pace this quarter from 3.1 percent in
the first three, according to a May 27 report by New York-based
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “Developed world consumption spending is estimated to have
increased at a meager 0.8 percent pace last quarter, an outcome
that is nearly 1 percentage point below what we had expected
just one month ago,” JPMorgan analysts led by chief economist
Bruce Kasman wrote in the report.  Last month’s rally in the global  bond market  followed a
0.93 percent increase in April, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index.  Sovereign bonds returned 1.1 percent, including reinvested
interest, led by a 1.46 percent gain in U.S. Treasuries as
speculation grew that the Fed will keep it  interest rates  at a
record low through year-end.  Corporate bonds gained 1.18 percent, while high-yield,
high-risk company debt lagged behind, returning 0.46 percent.  Stocks, Commodities  The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares in 45 nations
fell to 347.90 on May 31, trimming this year’s gain to 5.22
percent, led by declines in energy and materials stocks. Shares
worldwide lost about $1.8 trillion in value during the month,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  slid 1.35 percent in May, the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index dropped 0.96 percent and the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index declined 2.28 percent.  The S&P GSCI Total Return Index of 24 commodities snapped
the longest winning streak since 2008, posting the worst monthly
performance in a year. In April, the gauge reached the highest
level since October 2008.  “The underlying fundamentals remain extremely positive
across the broad range of commodities,” said  Paul Horsnell ,
head of commodities research in London at  Barclays Capital ,
whose team of analysts correctly called the bottom in oil and
copper in 2009. “Ups and downs, obviously, but in terms of an
overall story, it’s a long cycle. Those kinds of cycles don’t
finish in three weeks.”  Silver, Oil  Silver, the worst performer, slumped about 21 percent,
posting its biggest monthly loss since October 2008, followed by
about a 14 percent drop in nickel and about a 12 percent decline
in cotton and sugar. CME Group Inc., the Comex owner, raised
margin costs to curb price volatility after the metal climbed to
a 31-year high on April 25, more than doubling in the past 12
months.  Crude oil, which represents more than half the GSCI Index,
dropped 9.9 percent in New York trading and 7.3 percent in
 London . West Texas Intermediate is still up 12 percent this
year, and Brent, the European benchmark, has increased 23
percent as unrest in the  Middle East  and North Africa toppled
leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt  and spread to Libya, Iran and
Syria.  Gasoline lost 9.1 percent after reaching $3.4648 a gallon
on April 29, the highest level since July 2008, as refinery
outages tightened supplies. The fuel is up 28 percent this year,
the biggest increase in the GSCI.  Natural gas futures dropped 0.7 percent in May on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , the first decline since February. Gas
ended the month at $4.666 per million British thermal units, up
5.9 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  