-- 
Don’t Fight Over the Debt Limit, Abandon It: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-05-31T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/don-t-fight-over-the-debt-limit-abandon-it-altogether-view.html
It’s a simple equation: Congress
decides how much tax revenue the government will collect and how
much money the government will spend. When the first sum is
insufficient to cover the second, the government must borrow to
make up the difference. To rein itself in, Congress sets a "debt
ceiling," a predetermined amount the government can borrow and
can’t exceed without a vote.  That ceiling, now set at $14.3 trillion, was shattered May
16, and Congress has until Aug. 2 to find a way to avoid
 default . Today, the House conducted an up-or-down vote on
increasing the limit by $2.4 trillion. With  House Republicans 
not wanting to show that they would facilitate an increase in
 government spending , the measure failed, as everyone expected it
to. Still, Republicans saw the vote as an opportunity to
demonstrate their "seriousness."  Debt limit battles tend to be dangerous and demagogic.
Mainly, though, they are unnecessary: The limit itself has no
plausible rationale and should be done away with. At best, it’s
an anachronistic contrivance; at worst, it’s a crude instrument
for budgetary theatrics, which only hurt taxpayers in the end.  Before 1917, Congress had to approve individual loans or
debt instruments issued by the Treasury. The Second Liberty Bond
Act, enacted to help finance World War I, gave the Treasury
wider latitude to borrow within an aggregate constraint (a debt
limit), thus giving it more independence from Congress. Over the
following decades, however, Congress began using this limit as a
way "to assert its constitutional prerogatives to control
spending," as the  Congressional Research Service  put it in a
2008 report.  Warnings Issued  Of course, the rational way for Congress to assert its
constitutional prerogatives would be to not spend more money
than it has. Unfortunately, Congress doesn’t have a great record
in this regard. Instead, it opts to legislate its way to
progressively higher debt ceilings. The routine usually goes
something like this: The government approaches the debt limit,
the political posturing about spending begins, warnings are
issued that  interest rates  will rise if an agreement isn’t
reached -- and then the ceiling is raised.  Great theatrics don’t necessarily make for great policy.
Rather than creating a short-term crisis, Congress would do
better to focus its energies on achieving medium-term budget
reforms, such as the sensible and flexible ideas suggested by
the Bowles-Simpson debt-reduction commission.  Risk of Instability  Republicans, who have been demanding budget cuts in
exchange for raising the ceiling, say their goal is simply to
squeeze as much savings as they can for taxpayers. The harder
they press, though, the more likely they are to extract
something else: higher borrowing costs for the government. After
all, the longer this drama goes on, the greater the risk of
instability, higher interest rates and even default.  So far, the  bond market  has shown no sign of nervousness,
in part because it’s seen it all before and in part because the
Treasury keeps extending the date by which it will exhaust
financial gimmicks and must declare default. Republicans use
this apparent lack of concern as evidence that they should push
for "structural reforms" before agreeing to raise the debt
ceiling again. The only appropriate structural reform is to take
a legislative mechanism that does little for policy and lots for
point-scoring, and to abolish it altogether.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net  