-- 
Dubai Shares Advance Most This Month on Greece Aid Optimism

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-05-31T11:12:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/dubai-shares-advance-most-this-month-on-greece-aid-optimism.html
Dubai shares rose the most in more
than a month, led by developer  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , amid
speculation European officials will sanction more assistance for
 Greece , boosting investor appetite for riskier assets.  Emaar, builder of the world’s tallest skyscraper, increased
the most in three weeks.  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) , the United
Arab Emirates’ biggest bank complying with Shariah rules,
rallied 1 percent. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  advanced 1.6 percent,
the most since April 27, to 1,559.92 at the 2 p.m. close in
Dubai. The measure dropped 4.5 percent this month. The  Bloomberg
GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  rose 0.3 percent at 2:08 p.m. in Riyadh and the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index jumped 1.4 percent.  “The gain in the Dubai Financial Market is clearly on the
back of the tick-up in  Europe ,” said Anastasios Dalgiannakis, a
Dubai-based trader at Mubasher Financial Services. “Our markets
will follow Europe for now.”  European and Asian shares climbed, with the STOXX Europe
600 Index rallying 0.9 percent and the  MSCI AC Asia Pacific (MXAP) 
Index rising 1.3 percent. European Union leaders will decide on
additional aid for Greece by the end of June and have ruled out
a “total restructuring” of the nation’s debt, said  Jean-Claude
Juncker , head of the euro-area finance ministers’ group. Greek
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said on May 27 he’ll press
ahead with new austerity measures after failing to win backing
from the main opposition parties.  Crude for July delivery gained as much as 2 percent to
$102.6 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council,
including the U.A.E. and Qatar, supply about a fifth of the
world’s oil.  Emaar gained 2.6 percent, the most since May 10, to 3.15
dirhams. Dubai Islamic increased to 2.09 dirhams, the highest
since May 23.  Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  advanced 0.7 percent and
Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  rose 0.2 percent. Oman’s
gauge jumped 0.8 percent and Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  climbed 0.3
percent. Bahrain’s BB All Share Index and Kuwait’s measure were
little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  