-- 
Dutch Natural-Gas Trading Rose 59 Percent in 2010, Prospex Says

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-05-31T13:32:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/dutch-natural-gas-trading-rose-59-percent-in-2010-prospex-says.html
Natural-gas trading volumes in the
Netherlands, the biggest market in continental  Europe , jumped 59
percent last year as improved storage and transmission
conditions facilitated transactions,  Prospex Research Ltd.  said.  Gas contracts bought and sold in the Netherlands at the so-
called Title Transfer Facility market, including over-the-
counter deals and exchange trades and unrecorded over-the-
counter transactions, rose to 5,402 terawatt-hours from 3,394
terawatt-hours, the London-based consultants said in a draft of
a report scheduled for publication tomorrow.  “The Dutch gas market has consolidated its position as the
most important gas trading venue in mainland Europe,”  authors
including Nigel Harris of  Kingston Energy Consulting Ltd.  said
in the report. “A greater quantity of gas now changes hands at
the TTF on the Dutch network than at any other virtual or
physical trading point in Europe, apart from the U.K.’s National
Balancing Point.”  The responsibility of conversion between different gas
qualities in the Dutch grid was in July 2009 taken over by the
transmission system operator Gas Transport Services BV, rather
than arranged by traders. Third-party access to gas storage and
more flexible cross-border transmission capacity also improved
the trading environment, Prospex said.  The commodity’s churn rate, or the number of times a
country’s consumption volume is traded, was about 12 times in
the Netherlands and trading volume has risen 20-fold in the past
five years, Prospex said.  Prospex Research gathers data from official statistics,
exchange volumes and estimates from brokers and trading
companies to compile the reports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  