-- 
Health-Record Vendors Led by GE May Gain From U.S. Privacy Rules

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-05-31T21:19:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/health-record-vendors-led-by-ge-may-gain-from-u-s-privacy-rules.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Siemens AG (SI)  and
other providers of electronic health-record technology may
benefit from a proposed change to U.S. medical privacy
regulations announced today.  A change to a rule under the 1996 Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act, known as HIPAA, would allow
patients to request a report from their health-care providers
listing who has viewed or accessed their medical information
electronically, according to a news  release  from the Health and
Human Services Department.  “We need to protect peoples’ rights so that they know how
their health information has been used or disclosed,” Georgina
Verdugo, director of the department’s  office of civil rights ,
said in a statement.  The proposal may spur investments in electronic health-
record systems and related technology provided by GE and Siemens
to make the systems able to generate reports on who has accessed
a record, Craig Le Clair, an analyst with Forrester Research, a
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based technology research firm, said in
an interview.  “It’s another requirement that drives investment in the
newer systems and technology,” Le Clair said. Hospitals and
physicians will be under “more pressure to buy” electronic
record systems, he said.  President  Barack Obama  has advocated electronic health
records as a way to lower health-care costs and reduce medical
errors. The Obama administration has begun distributing what may
eventually total $31.3 billion in incentive payments to
encourage hospitals and doctors to go electronic.  Reduced Reimbursements  The federal government plans to reduce Medicare
reimbursements to physicians who fail to make the transition by
2015.  GE is reviewing the proposed change and had no immediate
comment, spokesman Corey Miller said in an e-mail. Siemens did
not immediately respond to a request for comment.  Cerner Corp. (CERN) ,
 Allscripts Healthcare Solutions Inc. (MDRX)  and closely held Epic
Systems Corp. are among the other major providers of electronic
health-record systems.  The American Hospital Association also is reviewing the
proposed change and had no immediate comment, spokeswoman Marie
Watteau said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  