-- 
Heat Take on Mavericks in NBA Finals Replay as Labor Contract Battle Looms

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-05-31T18:21:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/heat-take-on-mavericks-in-nba-finals-replay-as-labor-contract-battle-looms.html
(Corrects spelling of Nowitzki in 11th paragraph.)  The Miami Heat and  Dallas  Mavericks
are repeating a past National Basketball Association Finals
matchup as the league sits on the edge of another recurrence --
a work stoppage.  The Heat, headed by All-Stars LeBron James,  Dwyane Wade  and
 Chris Bosh , host the Dirk Nowitzki-led Mavericks tonight in Game
1 of the best-of-seven series. It’s the second trip to the title
round for both franchises, five years after Miami rallied from a
2-0 deficit to claim the championship over Dallas in six games.  Capping a postseason that has produced record television
ratings, the finals may be followed by a labor battle between
the league and its players like the one in 1998 that led to a
shortened season. It also may be a reminder of what’s at stake
for both sides if the NBA joins the  National Football League  in
locking out players.  “Whenever you have a labor issue it’s never good timing,”
former NBA coach Jeff Van Gundy, who will analyze the series for
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC, said in a telephone interview. “You just
hope it doesn’t take away in coming seasons from the terrific
interest that has been shown this year.”  There’s been scrutiny on the Heat since July 8, the day
James spurned the  Cleveland Cavaliers  on a nationally televised
show to join Wade and Bosh in Miami.  “For me it was about being in a position to compete year
after year,” James said in a news conference yesterday.  10-0 to Dallas  Dallas has gone 10-0 against the Heat since the 2006
finals, including 106-95 and 98-96 wins in November and
December.  “They’re a much better team now,” Nowitzki told reporters
yesterday. “They’ve got what it takes to win it all.”  The Heat opened the season 9-8 before reeling off 12
straight victories. Miami finished 58-24, winning the Southeast
Division before ousting the Philadelphia 76ers and  Boston
Celtics  in early playoff rounds.  “The rest of the country is growing to appreciate and, in
some quarters, root for this team,” Hall of Fame coach Jack
Ramsey, who will analyze the series for ESPN Radio, said of the
Heat. “They started off on the wrong foot and just aroused
derision everywhere they went in the league, but they are so
good, so dedicated.”  No one on the Mavericks’ roster has a championship ring,
including Nowitzki, a 10-time All-Star who’s spent his entire
career with Dallas, and 16-year veteran Jason Kidd. Nowitzki and
Jason Terry are the only Dallas players who faced Miami in the
2006 Finals.  11 Straight Playoffs  Mavericks owner  Mark Cuban , who purchased the franchise in
2000, has taken Dallas to the playoffs for the past 11 seasons
without a title, a streak second only to the  San Antonio Spurs ,
who’ve been to 14 straight postseasons and won four
championships.  The Mavericks, coached by Rick Carlisle, went 57-25 this
season to finish four games behind  San Antonio  in the Southwest
Division. They eliminated the  Portland Trail Blazers  in six
games, swept the two-time defending champion  Los Angeles Lakers 
and reached the finals by beating the Oklahoma City Thunder for
the Western Conference championship in five games.  Miami has a 63 percent chance to win the title, according
to Las Vegas Sports Consultants, which advises Nevada sports
books on gambling lines.  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s TNT averaged 5.5 million viewers, 29
percent higher than a season ago, for its 40 playoff games,
while Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN averaged 5 million viewers for its
18 postseason games, topping its previous high of 4.9 million in
2009.  Labor Dispute  Amid the heightened interest come what may be the last NBA
games for some time.  The league and  National Basketball Players Association 
can’t agree on a collective bargaining agreement to replace the
one expiring June 30. The last work stoppage was in 1998, when
the season was shortened to 50 games from 82 following a lockout
that ended in January 1999.  NBA Commissioner David Stern said in April that the league
is projected to lose $300 million this season after losses of
$370 million in 2008-09 and $340 million in 2009-10. Twenty-two
of the 30 franchises are expected to lose money this season, NBA
Deputy Commissioner Adam Silver said.  The NBA wants to institute a hard ceiling on payrolls and,
at least to a degree, non-guaranteed contracts. They’ve proposed
reducing team payrolls to $45 million, from $58 million. The
players, who filed an unfair labor practice charge against the
league last week, have rejected the offers, while offering to
reduce the 57 percent of league revenue that they’re guaranteed.  Billy Hunter, the union’s executive director, said in
November that he is “99 percent sure” there will be a lockout,
according to the  Associated Press .  The first two games of the Finals will be in Miami before
Games 3, 4 and, if needed, 5 in Dallas. It’s there that the NBA
and the union will hold bargaining sessions on June 7 and 8.  “What’s happening now in the NBA cannot be diminished,”
said Ramsey, hoping to keep the interest on the court. “This is
an all-time high in popularity for the  National Basketball
Association , and it should not go wasted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 