-- 
ECB’s Draghi Says Inflation Risks Are Rising, Policy Remains Accommodative

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-05-31T10:30:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/ecb-s-draghi-says-inflation-risks-are-rising-policy-remains-accommodative.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member and likely future president  Mario Draghi  said 
policy makers remain determined to keep inflation expectations 
in check after lifting the bank’s key interest rate last month.  “Even with this measure, monetary conditions remain
accommodating,” Draghi said in a speech at the Bank of Italy’s
annual meeting in  Rome  today. “The ECB Governing Council has
reasserted its determination to prevent international price
trends from provoking, apart from the inevitable short-term
effects, a deterioration in inflation expectations.”  Officials have signaled they are ready to raise borrowing
costs further to curb price pressures after increasing the
benchmark interest rate to 1.25 percent last month, even as
peripheral nations such as Greece, Portugal and Ireland remain
mired in a sovereign-debt crisis. Inflation in the euro region
has breached the ECB’s 2 percent limit since December and is
forecast by its staff to average 2.3 percent this year.  Globally, “the risk of inflation is rising,” Draghi said.
“There is now a greater need to proceed with monetary policy
normalization so as to prevent expectations of higher inflation
from becoming entrenched.”  Rate setters around the world are growing more concerned
about inflation as the world economy gathers strength and food
and oil prices increase. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
on May 9 there is “a solid unity of purpose” among central
bankers to anchor inflation expectations.  No Distraction  “Neither the existence of sovereign risks nor some banks’
abnormal dependence on ECB financing can divert it from this
objective,” said Draghi, who has been nominated by euro-region 
finance ministers to replace Trichet later this year.   “It falls to the national governments to speed up the
consolidation of their public finances and implement structural
reforms that will raise the potential growth rate of their
economies,” Draghi said. “It falls to the financial
intermediaries to continue resolutely towards restoring healthy
balance sheets and strengthening their capital base.”  Greece, Ireland and  Portugal , which have received bailouts
worth 256 billion euros ($369 billion), have the potential to
cause “significant systemic risk,” he said. “A start has been
made on adjustment. This could not be postponed, despite the
weakness of the recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.ne   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  