-- 
Ecuador May Miss Growth Targets as Government Crimps Spending

-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 
2011-05-31T22:35:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/ecuador-may-miss-growth-targets-as-government-crimps-spending.html
Ecuador’s economy will expand less
than officially forecast this year and next as the government
struggles to boost revenue from oil and mining, forcing it to
crimp public spending, economist Walter Spurrier said.  Gross domestic product growth will slow to about 2.8
percent in 2012 from 4.5 percent this year, Spurrier, whose
clients include JPMorgan Chase & Co and the  International
Monetary Fund , said today in an interview in  Quito . The  Finance
Ministry  forecasts 2011 GDP growth of 5.06 percent and 5.17
percent in 2012, according to the 2011 budget.  “There won’t be a crisis, but there will be a lack of
vigor,” Spurrier said. “In 2012 we estimate that there will be
a growth deceleration because it’ll be difficult to maintain an
expansion in public spending.”  President  Rafael Correa , who took office in 2007, has used
rising oil revenue to boost public spending and fuel economic
growth, which reached 3.6 percent last year. Further increases
in government income will be limited because investment to boost
oil output and bring new gold and copper mines into production
won’t lift their output until at least 2013, said Spurrier.  Ecuador, the smallest member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, has used a 152 percent increase
in the price of its Oriente crude to boost state investment on
roads, hydro-electric dams and irrigation to 8.7 percent of GDP
last year from 3.2 percent in 2006, Economic Policy Minister
Katiuska King said in February.  The price of oil, which accounts for about 24 percent of
government revenue, won’t rise enough to finance an increase in
state spending next year, said Spurrier, who is director of
Guayaquil-based economic research company  Grupo Spurrier .  Lower public spending will act as a “drag” on the Andean
country’s economy next year as the government limits outlays to
avoid an “excessive”  budget deficit , said Patrick Esteruelas,
a senior analyst with the Latin American sovereign team at
Moody’s Investor Service.  Ecuador’s economy will probably expand 4 percent this year
and slow to 3.5 percent in 2012, he said.  “Inevitably the government is going to be forced to scale
back capital expenditure somewhat in order to avoid an excessive
deficit which they may have trouble financing,” Esteruelas said
today in a telephone interview from  New York . “That’s
ultimately what I think is going to be a drag on growth, an
under execution of public investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  