-- 
Egypt’s EGX 30 Index Poised to Recover Post-Revolution Losses

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   C l a u d i a   M a e d l e r
-- 
2011-05-31T05:23:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/egypt-s-egx-30-index-poised-to-recover-post-revolution-losses.html
Egypt ’s benchmark stock index is
headed for its best monthly performance in two years after
pledges of financial assistance by the U.S. and  Saudi Arabia 
boosted investor sentiment.  The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  has climbed 12 percent in May, the world’s
second-best performer and the gauge’s best month since May 2009.
Pioneers Holding, the country’s second-biggest publicly traded
securities firm, led the gain, surging 37 percent and  Talaat
Moustafa Group (TMGH)  Holding, the largest publicly traded real-estate
developer, climbing 33 percent. Twenty-eight shares have gained
and two declined this month. The EGX 30 rose 0.8 percent to
close at 5,590.03 yesterday.  "We’re seeing improved sentiment and an increase in risk
appetite for local and foreign investors," said Wafik Dawood,
director of institutional sales at Cairo-based Mega Investments
Securities. "Investor participation should increase as we
approach the elections because visibility should improve with an
elected government."  Egypt’s interim government expects to conclude talks on a
$3 billion loan from the  International Monetary Fund  by June 5
as the Arab country seeks to fund its widening budget deficit
after a popular revolt that ousted its president, Finance
Minister Samir Radwan said yesterday. The U.S. and Saudi Arabia
this month pledged a total of $6 billion to help the country’s
economic recovery after tourism and industrial output declined.  The country’s ruling military council has said it intends to
hold parliamentary elections in September, paving the way for
its withdrawal from governance. Efforts by its transitional
government to settle disputes over land sales by previous
governments to developers have boosted real-estate companies.  The EGX 30 has tumbled 22 percent this year, the second-
worst performer after Cyprus’ measure. The index needs to gain 1
percent to reach the closing level on Jan. 27, the last trading
day before an almost two-month suspension amid the uprising that
led to the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak  in February.  The country’s budget deficit may reach 10 percent of gross
domestic product in the fiscal year that ends next month
compared with 8.1 percent in the previous year, Radwan said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  