-- 
Egypt Finance Minister Comments on Aid, Economy and Budget

-- B y   L a r a   S e t r a k i a n   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-05-31T05:54:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/egypt-finance-minister-comments-on-aid-economy-and-budget.html
Egyptian Finance Minister Samir Radwan comments on the country’s talks with the  International
Monetary Fund  for a $3 billion loan and other aid commitments.  He spoke in a telephone interview yesterday from Cairo.  On the IMF aid:  “It has to go to the cabinet than to the military council.
All this should take a few days. Everything is ready, we don’t
anticipate any problems. From the IMF we will get $3 billion for
12 months.”  On other aid pledges:  “There is $2.2 billion from the  World Bank , including $1
billion in this calendar year for budget support and $1 billion
next calendar year for budget support and $200 million for  job
creation . There is talk of another $1 billion for investment in
infrastructure so that would make it $3.2 billion but we have
not negotiated the third billion yet. The first billion for
budget support will come in the beginning of the calendar year.  ‘‘Arab investors are really coming with a very strong
appetite. I am inviting everybody.  Egypt  is back to work. Come
back. Qatar is negotiating a $10 billion investment package.’’  On the planned U.S.-backed Eurobond sale:  ‘‘We have not worked out the details yet. We have not done
the calculations because we are getting offers from different
countries like  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar and the  United States  of
course. We are just doing the calculations right now.’’  On spending priorities:  ‘‘The  budget deficit . The demands are very high and the
income is a bit low so my immediate concern is the financing
gap, to cross the financing gap and keep the budget deficit at a
reasonable level."  On the state of the economy:  ‘‘We are hoping that things calm down and people can go
back to work, tourism comes back. There is a trickle as far as
tourism is concerned, we can see a slow but steady progress.  ‘‘What keeps me up at night is that I would love very much
to respond to the demands, the reasonable demands, of the
population but at the same time I have a fiscal discipline to
watch. I can’t shift the burden of what we are doing today to
the next generation so I am quite conscious that even if I run a
deficit this year it should be absolutely clear when I could go
back to normal and that is where the IMF help is very valuable.  ‘‘The structure of the Egyptian economy is intact, it’s not
been touched. It’s not been destroyed like  Libya  for instance.
It’s just working our way out of this bottleneck.  ‘‘The most reassuring thing is that investors who are here
are expanding. That is a good sign.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lara Setrakian in Dubai at 
 lsetrakian1@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  