-- 
Telkom Pushed by Johannesburg Bourse for More Details on Nigerian Lawsuit

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-05-31T14:10:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/telkom-pushed-by-johannesburg-bourse-for-more-details-on-nigerian-lawsuit.html
 Telkom South  Africa  Ltd., which said
it may post a full-year loss, was told by the  Johannesburg Stock
Exchange  to clarify a lawsuit involving its Nigerian unit.  “The explanation must determine whether there is a price-
sensitive matter” that Telkom should have disclosed to its
shareholders, Andre Visser, general manager of issuer services
at the bourse, said in a telephone interview today. He said
Telkom, Africa’s biggest fixed-line phone company, hasn’t
responded to the exchange’s request. The company has no comment
on Visser’s statement, spokesman Pynee Chetty said.  Telkom’s Multi-Links Telecommunications Ltd. is being sued
for $252 million by Helios Investment Partners LLP over the
leasing of mobile-phone towers in  Nigeria , according to court
papers Helios filed in Lagos, the country’s commercial capital.
Telkom is opposing the lawsuit, it said in an e-mailed response
to questions on May 24. Since then it has yet to provide
clarification in response to seven written and telephone
requests from Bloomberg News for comment.  The lawsuit represents more than 10 percent of Telkom’s
market capitalization, which makes it “significant” enough to
require official disclosure, Visser said. “We’ve asked Telkom
to explain the circumstances around the matter because we cannot
just look at the value of the claim.”  Telkom shares have fallen 2.2 percent since the Helios
lawsuit was reported on May 23. They declined 0.6 percent to
36 rand as of 4:08 p.m. today in Johannesburg.  Possible Loss  Telkom said in a statement today it may report a loss for
the fiscal year ended March 31, compared with a restated profit
of 8 billion rand ($1.2 billion) the year before. That would be
Telkom’s first loss since its 2003 initial public offering,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Pretoria-based
company said earnings per share will be “85 percent to 105
percent lower” than a year earlier.  Telkom said the deterioration reflects 1.1 billion rand in
operating losses it incurred starting up a mobile-phone unit, as
well as 739 million rand in severance pay for the 1,650
employees who accepted buyouts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  