-- 
Emerging Stocks Rise, Pare Worst Monthly Drop in a Year, on Aid for Greece

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-05-31T21:51:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/emerging-stocks-rise-pare-worst-monthly-drop-in-a-year-on-aid-for-greece.html
Emerging-markets stocks rose for a
fourth day, paring the benchmark index’s biggest monthly drop in
a year, on speculation European nations will pledge additional
aid to ease Greece’s financial crisis.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 1.7 percent to
1,167.97 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The gauge slipped 3 percent this
month, its steepest slide since May 2010.  South Korea ’s  Kospi
Index (KOSPI)  increased 2.3 percent.  Turkey ’s  ISE National 100 index (XU100) 
advanced 2.5 percent after the nation’s April trade deficit was
less than forecast.  Brazil ’s Bovespa index rose 1 percent as
traders pared bets for higher borrowing costs after the nation’s
industrial production unexpectedly fell.  Information technology and health care led the index
higher, with exporters such as Samsung Electronics Co.,  Asia ’s
biggest maker of chips, flat screens and mobile phones, and
Hynix Semiconductor Inc. advancing. European Union leaders will
decide on a new aid package for Greece by the end of next month,
said Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers.  “Some investors believe the  Greece  problem can be resolved
with an amicable arrangement,” said Scott Lim, who oversees the
equivalent of $670 million as chief executive officer of Kuala
Lumpur-based MIDF Amanah Asset Management Bhd. Still, “the
problem isn’t going to go away so soon,” he said.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said on May 27 he’ll
press ahead with new austerity measures after failing to win
backing from the main opposition parties.  Stock Volatility  The MSCI gauge of emerging markets has risen 1.4 percent
this year, trailing a 5.8 percent advance in the MSCI World
Index, a measure for developed markets. Stocks in the benchmark
index for developing nations are valued at about 11.3 times
estimated earnings, less than the multiple of about 13 times for
developed countries.  Poland’s WIG20 Index advanced for a sixth day, the longest
winning streak since April, adding 1.1 percent. The zloty
strengthened 1.5 percent after gross domestic product expanded
an annual 4.4 percent, in line with the median estimate of 26
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , the copper producer with the biggest
European mine output, gained 2 percent. PKN Orlen SA, Poland’s
biggest oil company, increased for a sixth day, adding 2.3
percent.  Oil,  Russia   Oil rose for a second day, adding 2.1 percent to settle at
$102.70 a barrel in New York after a pump-station leak forced
the shutdown of the Keystone pipeline that carries crude to the
largest U.S. storage hub.  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 30 stocks gained for a third day,
adding 1.3 percent to 1,666.30. OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-
largest oil producer, leaped 3.8 percent, the most since Feb. 1.
OAO Novatek, the nation’s second-largest gas producer, rose 2.9
percent.  Homebuilder PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes,
climbed 4 percent, leading advances by Brazilian companies that
depend on credit growth.  South African economic growth unexpectedly accelerated to
the fastest pace in a year in the first quarter as the lowest
 interest rates  in three decades spurred manufacturers to restock
to meet rising demand. Gross domestic product rose an annualized
4.8 percent from a revised 4.5 percent in the final quarter of
2010, Statistics  South Africa  said in a report in  Pretoria 
today. The median estimate of 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for growth to slow to 4.2 percent.  South Africa’s FTSE/JSE All Share Index rose for a sixth
session, adding 0.5 percent as commodity prices rose.  Samsung, Hynix  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
climbed 1.2 percent, reaching its highest closing level in three
weeks. The index dropped 6.8 percent this month, the worst
performance since May 2010.  Samsung Electronics, which derived 20 percent of its
revenue from  Europe  last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, climbed 2 percent in Seoul trading.  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , the world’s second-largest computer-memory
chipmaker, advanced 2 percent. Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the
world’s biggest shipbuilder, surged 11 percent after it received
an order for two liquefied natural gas carriers from Dynagas
Ltd. of Greece. Taewoong Co., the South Korean maker of parts
for wind power plants, rose 8.3 percent after  Germany  proposed
to double renewable energy output by 2020.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index rose 1.4 percent, ending
the longest losing streak for the benchmark index since December
2008.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries narrowed six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 309 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  