-- 
FIFA to Hold Presidential Election, Won’t Let Corruption Probe Delay Vote

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-01T11:20:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/england-s-f-a-calls-on-fifa-to-postpone-presidential-vote-due-tomorrow.html
Soccer’s governing body voted against
delaying today’s presidential election to pursue corruption
probes, putting incumbent Sepp Blatter in line for a fourth
term.  Blatter is the lone candidate in the election for the four-
year post. He told delegates at FIFA’s congress in Zurich that
future World Cup hosts should be selected by all of the body’s
208 members after concerns about the selection process for the
2018 and 2022 events. An English request to delay Blatter’s re-
election was defeated in a 172-17 vote with 17 abstentions.  Blatter’s opponent Mohamed  Bin Hammam  withdrew a day 
before being suspended alongside FIFA Vice President Jack 
Warner following allegations the duo conspired to buy votes.
Warner and Bin Hammam deny wrongdoing. Two executives in the
selection of the 2018 and 2022 hosts were removed before the
vote for Russia and Qatar following a newspaper report that
they had offered to sell their support.  “We all know the FIFA ship is in moving waters, I could
even say in troubled waters,” Blatter, 75, told delegates.
“But I think the ship must be brought back on the right route
and I’m the captain of the ship so it’s my duty and
responsibility to see that we get on the right route.”  Traditionally, the host of the  World Cup  has been selected
by FIFA’s 24-member executive committee. Blatter’s proposal,
which needs approval from the congress, would increase the vote
to the representatives of all the associations. The president
also pledged to reinforce FIFA’s disciplinary bodies.  ‘Closer Look’  The scandals have roiled the sport and increased pressure
for reform on FIFA, which generates $4 billion from the World
Cup. The issues have concerned sponsors that pay it $343 million
to be associated with the World Cup, the most-watched sporting
event.  Theo Zwanziger, president of the German soccer federation,
said on the organization’s website that FIFA “needs to take a
closer look” at the decision to award the 2022 World Cup to
Qatar. Warner two days ago revealed an e-mail sent to him by
FIFA’s General Secretary  Jerome Valcke  that suggested Qatar
“bought” the rights. On May 30, the Persian Gulf nation’s bid
team said it ‘categorically’ denied any wrongdoing.  Bin Hammam, the Qatari head of soccer in  Asia , withdrew his
candidacy for the presidency amid accusations he tried to bribe
Caribbean officials with $40,000 each in cash to vote for him.  England ’s Football Association chairman David Bernstein
took the stage to call for the vote to be delayed because
“coronation without an opponent provides a flawed mandate.” He
said the pause could allow a reforming candidate the opportunity
to stand against Blatter.  FIFA Family  His message was poorly received by the majority of nation’s
present. Officials from  Haiti , Congo DR, Cyprus, Fiji and Benin
took the stage to voice their dissatisfaction before Julio Grondona, a FIFA vice president from  Argentina , complained about
the British move.  “We always have attacks from England, where mostly with
lies and with the support of a journalism which is more busy
lying than telling the truth this upsets and disturbs the FIFA
family,” the 78-year-old said.  Chuck Blazer, the U.S. official who reported Warner and Bin
Hammam’s alleged bribery, was removed from his post as General
Secretary of Concacaf, the body responsible for soccer in North
and Central America yesterday by its acting head Lisle Austin.
Other Concacaf officials put a statement on the organization’s
website stating Lisle, who replaced Warner this week, didn’t
have the authority to remove Blazer.  ‘Too Little, Too Late’  Blazer, who didn’t immediately return an e-mail and text
message seeking comment on Austin’s actions, said that England’s
action was “too little, too late.”  “The F.A. needs to learn to be ahead of the curve and not
behind the game,” he said.  The scandal has caused disquiet among FIFA’s sponsors.  Visa Inc. (V) , the biggest bank card network, and airline
Emirates yesterday joined  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and Adidas AG, to voice
their concerns. Visa said, “the current situation is clearly
not good for the game and we ask that FIFA take all necessary
steps to resolve the concerns that have been raised.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Zurich at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  