-- 
Tennis Player Daniel Koellerer Banned for Life, Fined for Match-Fixing

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-31T16:23:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/tennis-player-daniel-koellerer-banned-for-life-fined-for-match-fixing.html
Daniel Koellerer , an Austrian tennis
player once ranked No. 55 in the world, has been banned from the
sport for life for match-fixing.  The player, currently ranked No. 385 on the  ATP World Tour ,
was also fined $100,000 for three offenses against the sport’s
anti-corruption program, the London-based Tennis Integrity Unit
(TIU) said in an e-mailed  statement  today. The TIU was formed by
the  International Tennis Federation , the ATP World Tour, the WTA
Tour and the Grand Slam Committee as part of the Uniform Tennis
Anti-Corruption Program.  “This is a massive shock,” Manfred Nareyka, Koellerer’s
manager, said in a telephone interview. “This investigation has
now been going on for a year and a half. It has affected him
making a living. There is no proof. I distance myself from any
form of match-fixing.”  The 27-year-old player was found guilty of “contriving or
attempting to contrive the outcome of an event; soliciting or
facilitating a player not to use his best efforts in an event;
and soliciting, offering or providing money, benefit or
consideration to any other covered person with the intention of
negatively influencing a player’s best effort in any event,”
the TIU said. The violations took place between October 2009 and
July 2010.  Nareyka said Koellerer has 20 days to appeal the decision.  “We’re looking into it now,” he said. “He isn’t sure if
he can afford the legal costs. He is going to become a father in
July. It is very difficult.”  The TIU, headed by former Scotland Yard detective Jeff Rees, was founded in 2008 after suspicious betting on a match
the previous year. More than a dozen players said publicly that
they had been approached to throw matches and the tour banned
three Italian players for betting.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London newsroom
at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  