-- 
Merkel Faces Achilles Heel in Grid to Unplug German Nuclear

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-06-01T15:56:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/merkel-faces-achilles-heel-in-grids-to-unplug-german-nuclear.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  must carry
out a 10 billion-euro ($14.4 billion) expansion of Germany’s
electricity-delivery network or her decision to exit nuclear
power can stunt growth in  Europe ’s largest economy.  Cables are needed to connect new offshore wind farms in the
north to the factory-rich south and high-volume lines to  France 
are necessary for imports to cover a shortfall as Germany phases
out reactors that provide 23 percent of demand. A grid upgrade
is essential, and Germans must end their opposition to new power
lines overhead, energy economics professor Christoph Weber said.  “The grids are the Achilles heel and greatest challenge of
the  energy policy ,” University of Duisburg Essen’s Weber said
in an interview. “The government will have to overcome
significant problems on the ground to get the lines built.”  Germany  became the biggest economy to plan an atomic-power
exit after a meltdown in  Japan  stoked safety concerns, costing
Merkel’s Christian Democrats votes in state elections. Europe’s
largest power market will be a test case for whether an
industrialized nation can rely far more on clean energy without
eroding corporate profit, according to Environment Minister
Norbert Roettgen.  An improved power network to avoid potential blackouts
would be paid for largely by business and residential power
consumers and benefit carmakers in the south including Daimler
AG and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, as well as equipment
suppliers including  Siemens AG (SIE)  and Switzerland’s  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)   Legal Challenges  Infrastructure projects often face resistance from local
residents concerned that  home prices  and quality of life will
decline. EON AG, the country’s largest utility, is fighting
legal challenges to finish building a coal-fired power plant in
the town of Datteln while Elia System Operator SA’s German unit
is trying to convince local authorities to proceed with a plan
to build  power lines  through a forest in the state of Thuringia.  To kick-start the work, the  Economy Ministry  plans to use
fast-track powers last exercised in 1990, when united Germany
replaced crumbling roads in the east to improve connections in
the country. Control over approving power grids would be taken
by Merkel’s government from states and local councils. Her
cabinet is set to discuss the energy policy overhaul on June 6.  Build Cables  The country’s top priority is to construct as many as 3,600
kilometers (2,235 miles) of cables by 2020 to link renewable
energy projects with consumers, the German Energy Agency said
today in an e-mailed statement. That would  cost  9.7 billion
euros and include connecting offshore wind farms, according to
the agency, a think tank owned by  Allianz SE , Deutsche Bank AG,
DZ Bank AG, KfW Group and the government.  “The grid cannot become the bottleneck of the energy
shift,” Stephan Kohler, the president of the agency known as
Dena, said in the statement. “Wind and solar power won’t do any
good if we can’t transmit it to where it will be used or
stored.”  Utilities will need to “strengthen the  power grid ,
boosting north-south capacity and allowing for a growing
percentage of intermittent renewable energy being fed in,”
James Stettler, a London-based UniCredit SpA analyst, and
colleague Alasdair Leslie wrote in a May 31 note to clients.  Siemens,  Schneider Electric SA (SU) , ABB and  Alstom SA (ALO)  may
benefit from demand for transmission products, according to
UniCredit. Siemens, a stock the analysts rate “buy,” is
“particularly well-placed” given that it sells  wind turbines ,
transmission and distribution equipment, gas-fired power plants
and other energy products, according to the note.  Grid Ownership  Germany’s four high-voltage grids are owned by  RWE AG (RWE) , EnBW
Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG, TenneT Holding BV and Elia. RWE,
which also generates power, fell 1 percent to close at 40.11
euros in Frankfurt trading while Elia slumped 3 percent to 31.37
euros in Brussels. EnBW is more than 93 percent held by a
southwestern German state and local authorities, while TenneT is
owned by the Netherlands.  Gas-fired  power plants  are used to shadow renewable energy
output because they can increase and reduce generation quicker
than other reactors or coal-fired stations.  While Germany will add gas-fired plants, the country could
have to source as much as 10 percent of its annual power use
from abroad during the phase-out, said Weber.  Renewables Goal  Merkel said May 30 that Germany will raise renewable power
output to 35 percent of the country’s supply in 2020 from 17
percent last year. The government already had a target of more
than 30 percent and has said 35 percent would be achievable.  Germany is considering reducing the guaranteed, above-
market rate paid for solar power by 6 percent on March 1,
Environment Minister Roettgen said at a May 30 press conference
in Berlin. That would come on top of cuts of as much as 24
percent between July and next January to adapt the subsidy to
falling panel prices.  “There is no room” for the planned cut, which is
“decoupled from market growth,” the German Solar Industry
Association said today in an open letter to Merkel published on
the lobby group’s  website .  The government has cut subsidies further than it originally
planned over the last two years after panel prices slumped with
an increase in Chinese imports.  “It’s clearly possible to boost solar use in Germany: they
have not yet managed to stop their market growing explosively
despite increasing tariff cuts,” said Jenny Chase, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance’s lead solar analyst. “The challenge will be
handling intermittency. Expect Germany to become very, very
interested in a Europe-wide grid and power storage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  