-- 
Merkel’s Atomic Retreat Opens Lines to Greens for 2013 as FDP Ally Fades

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-05-31T13:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/merkel-s-atomic-retreat-opens-lines-to-greens-for-2013-as-fdp-ally-fades.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s decision
to abandon nuclear power may open the way to an alliance
unprecedented in postwar Germany: a coalition between her
Christian Democrats and the environmental  Green Party .  Backing for the anti-nuclear Greens has soared amid public
fears over reactor safety following the March meltdown in  Japan ,
while Merkel’s current partners, the Free Democrats, have seen a
collapse in support. Staying in control after 2013 elections
means Merkel may need to start looking for a new ally soon.  “A door has been opened that had been shut tightly,”
Hans-Juergen Hoffmann, managing director of Berlin-based polling
company Psephos, said by phone today. While the nuclear retreat
doesn’t mean Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  will ally with
the Greens in the short term, “it does open the CDU to more
political options.”  Merkel’s government yesterday endorsed a plan to shut the
17 reactors that help power  Europe ’s biggest economy, in a
policy reversal that will make Germany the biggest industrial
power to exit nuclear power. The decision means repealing a law
enacted seven months ago to extend reactor running times.  By backtracking and heeding public opinion opposed to
nuclear power, Merkel signaled she’s “wide open for a coalition
with the Greens at the next parliamentary election in 2013,”
said Bernhard Jeggle, a utility analyst with Landesbank Baden
Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart. “It is a smart chess move.”  Greens Rise  The chancellor was re-elected in September 2009 at the head
of a coalition with the Free Democrats, ditching her Social
Democratic ally of the previous four years, after promising to
extend nuclear power as a “bridge technology” to renewable
energy. The calculus changed after the Fukushima disaster.  Merkel, her coalition already at historic low levels of
support, announced that  Germany ’s seven oldest reactors would be
idled for three months and the nuclear extension put on hold
pending safety checks in a move that yesterday became permanent.  The whiplash only aided the Greens, which won control of
its first ever German state in regional elections on March 27,
breaking 58 years of uninterrupted CDU rule in Baden-
Wuerttemberg, home to carmakers Porsche SE and Daimler AG. The
Greens leapfrogged the CDU into second place in Bremen on May
22, the first time it has won more votes in a state ballot.  Schroeder’s Law  Germany could have a Green chancellor if a federal election
were held now, according to a  Forsa poll  for Stern magazine
today. The Greens had 26 percent support for the fourth straight
week, while the main opposition  Social Democrats  with which they
passed a law to exit nuclear power by 2021 under SPD Chancellor
 Gerhard Schroeder  had 24 percent, up 3 percentage points.  The opposition allies’ 50 percent compares with a combined
34 percent for Merkel’s coalition, as the CDU lost 2 points to
30 percent and the Free Democrats dropped a point to 4 percent,
below the threshold to win parliamentary seats. Forsa polled
2,501 voters on May 23-27. The margin of error was as much as
2.5 percentage points.  Whether or not Merkel is a committed environmentalist, the
weakness of the FDP could entice her to look beyond her favored
coalition partner by the time she runs for re-election, said
Joachim Koschnicke, a Forsa pollster.  “She could theoretically be the first chancellor to have
three legislative periods with three different partners,”
Koschnicke said by phone. “It’s not something she’s striving
for per se, but it is an option.”  ‘Illusory’ Tie-Up  To be sure, Merkel last week repeated her position that a
partnership with the Greens was “illusory.” The Greens have
criticized Merkel’s nuclear retreat as insufficient, while
calling a convention for June 25 to discuss how to respond to
the government’s sudden overhaul of  energy policy .  Cem Oezdemir, the co-party leader of the Greens, is
pressing Merkel to go further, saying the nuclear exit should
come by 2017 and that the government is relying too much on
fossil fuels to fill the gap.  “It’s too bad Merkel would rather go with the last
backwards-looking atomic-energy supporters in the coalition
rather than the opposition Green Party, the republic’s anti-
nuclear party,” Oezdemir said on the  Greens’ website .  Merkel, who has seen the majority for her preferred
coalition wither in the 20 months since winning a second term,
has no choice but to hedge her bets with the opposition after
“writing off the FDP” for 2013, said Ulrich Deupmann, the
director of Berlin-based political advisory company Ideas.ag.  “Merkel’s only chance to stay in power is to prevent a
return of the SPD-Greens coalition,” Deupmann said. “She wants
to show that her  Christian Democrats  could enter a coalition
with either the SPD or the Greens and to do this, she has to
move in their political direction,” he said. “This explains
her nuclear policy turnaround.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  