-- 
David Lerner Associates Misled Investors in REIT, Finra Says

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-05-31T21:03:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/lerner-associates-misled-reit-investors-finra.html
David Lerner Associates Inc. has been
accused of targeting unsophisticated and elderly customers while
selling real estate investment trust shares without considering
whether the illiquid security was suitable for its clients.  The Syosset, New York-based brokerage, known for its “Take
a tip from Poppy” advertising slogan, misled investors who
bought more than $300 million of shares in the $2 billion Apple
REIT Ten offering this year, the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority said today in a disciplinary complaint on its website.
The firm denies the allegations, according to a statement.  In soliciting customers for Apple REIT Ten, DLA provided
misleading information about distribution rates for a series of
predecessor securities that are now closed to investors, Finra
said. The figures failed to show that distributions far exceeded
income and were funded by debt that increased leverage in the
REITs, which invest in extended-stay hotels, the regulator said.  DLA has sold almost $6.8 billion of Apple REIT shares to
more than 122,000 customers since 1992, according to Finra, the
industry-funded regulator for U.S. brokerages. Those sales have
generated more than $600 million, accounting for more than 60
percent of the firm’s business since 1996, Finra said.  The complaint is the first step in a formal proceeding,
Finra said today. It isn’t filed in court, and the firm can
request a hearing before a disciplinary panel, the regulator
said in its statement.  ‘Due Diligence’  “The firm conducted thorough due diligence of Apple REIT
Ten’s offering documents and audited financial statements,” DLA
said in its statement. “DLA will vigorously defend these
claims. It looks forward to the opportunity to set the record
straight and expects to be completely vindicated.”  In September, DLA paid a $255,000 fine for failing to
provide required information in connection with the replacement
of variable life insurance policies and annuity contracts from
November 1998 through February 2004, according to the New York
State Insurance Department.  A year ago this month, DLA was accused by Finra of
overcharging customers on sales of municipal bonds and mortgage
securities. That case is still pending, according to Finra’s
brokerage records.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  