-- 
Ethiopian Economy May Expand 7.5% This Fiscal Year; Slow in 2012, IMF Says

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-05-31T14:06:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/ethiopian-economy-may-expand-7-5-this-fiscal-year-slow-in-2012-imf-says.html
Ethiopia’s economic expansion may
slow next fiscal year amid rising inflation, restrictions on
private-bank lending and a “difficult” business environment, the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  The growth rate may slow to 6 percent in the fiscal year to
July 7, 2012, from 7.5 percent this year, the Washington-based
lender said in an e-mailed statement today. The IMF’s estimate
for 2010-11 growth is below the government’s projection of 11.4
percent for the period.  “The principal macroeconomic challenge is surging
inflation,” the IMF said. “While this partly reflects rising
international commodity prices, excessive monetary growth has
been the principal cause.”  Ethiopia’s annual inflation rate jumped to 29.5 percent in
April from 25 percent a month earlier as food prices increased,
the Central Statistical Agency said on May 10. Broad money-
supply growth was 35 percent at the end of March, said the IMF,
which had previously projected growth of 22 percent in  money
supply  this fiscal year.  National Bank of Ethiopia  officials weren’t immediately
available for comment when Bloomberg called the central bank.  Imported price increases are the main cause of inflation
and monetary factors only account for a small portion of the
rise, the bank said on May 10.  Price Caps  In an effort to curb inflation, the government introduced
price caps on 17 items including meat, sugar, bread and beer in
January. The ceilings will be removed this week apart from those
on sugar,  palm oil , bread and flour, Trade Ministry spokesman
Amakele Yilma said in an interview today in the capital,  Addis
Ababa .  The IMF “welcomes the decision to lift most price controls
and urged the government to consider measures to improve the
business climate and reduce the costs of trade.”  Ethiopia should also reconsider a directive that compels
private lenders to buy  government bonds  worth 27 percent of
their loans “in order to lessen its disruptive impact on the
banking system,” the IMF said.  The measure, announced by the central bank last month, may
raise 11 billion birr ($655 million) to finance government
development projects, while crimping private lenders’ profits by
about 15 percent, Addis Ababa-based research group  Access
Capital SC  said last month.  Ethiopia,  Africa ’s second-most populous nation, is the
continent’s biggest coffee producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  