-- 
Euro-Area Inflation Slowed in May, Easing Pressure on ECB to Raise Rates

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-05-31T09:46:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/euro-area-inflation-slowed-in-may.html
European inflation unexpectedly
slowed in May, giving the European Central Bank room to keep
borrowing costs on hold next month.  Inflation in the 17-nation euro region slowed to 2.7
percent from 2.8 percent in April, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said today in an initial
estimate. Economists had forecast no change in the inflation
rate, the median of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
showed. Unemployment held at 9.9 percent in April from the
previous month, a separate report showed.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  has signaled that the
central bank may keep  interest rates  on hold in June after last
month increasing the benchmark rate 25 basis points to 1.25
percent to fight price pressures. With the recovery losing
momentum and governments cutting spending to plug budget gaps,
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said
on May 25 that further rate increases “are not required
immediately.”  “The decline was largely down to lower energy prices and
the unwinding of the ‘late Easter effect,’ which led to a surge
in inflation in the leisure and entertainment sector last
month,” Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam, said in an e-mailed note to investors.  Energy, Food Prices  “Looking ahead, euro-zone headline inflation is set to
stay well above 2% in the remainder of this year as energy and
food prices continue to have an upward impact on consumer
prices,” van Vliet said.  The euro extended gains after the data were released,
trading at $1.4415 at 11:34 a.m. in Brussels, up 0.9 percent.  The OECD forecasts euro-region growth to accelerate to 2
percent this year from 1.7 percent in 2010, with unemployment
averaging 9.7 percent and 9.3 percent this year and next.
Harmonized consumer prices may rise 2.6 percent in 2011 and 1.6
percent in 2012, the Paris-based group said.  Crude  oil prices  have surged 38 percent in the past year,
trading at $102.03 a barrel today. That’s putting pressure on
companies to protect earnings and pass on higher costs. Euro-
region producer-price inflation unexpectedly accelerated in
March and a gauge measuring households’ confidence in their
ability to purchase big-ticket items in the coming year dropped
in May from the previous month.  ‘Second-Round Effects’  “We have to avoid commodity-price increases becoming
entrenched in longer-term inflation expectations, which could
have second-round effects on wages and prices,” Trichet said on
May 26. “We are carefully monitoring the situation and we stand
ready to do whatever is necessary.”  With rising prices sapping consumers’ spending power and
governments from  Spain  to Ireland toughening austerity measures,
the euro-region economy may struggle to gather strength.
European services and manufacturing growth weakened in May and
German investor confidence dropped more than economists
forecast. European economic confidence also declined.  About 15.5 million people were unemployed in April, down
115,000 from the previous month, today’s report showed. At 20.7
percent, Spain had the highest jobless rate within the euro
region. The Netherlands and  Austria  reported the lowest rate at
4.2 percent.  Michael O’Leary , chief executive officer of  Ryanair
Holdings Plc (RYA) ,  Europe ’s largest discount airline, told Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” on May 23 that
while he’s “quite concerned” about economies, he remains
“cautiously optimistic” for the full year.  ‘Under Control’  “We have the costs very well under control,” O’Leary
said. “We do better in a downturn because everybody gets more
price-sensitive. We see strong growth in the first half of the
year, being the summer months. As oil prices rise, we are going
to cut capacity during the winter months.”  The statistics office will release a breakdown of May
consumer prices next month. Euro-region core inflation
accelerated to 1.6 percent in April from 1.3 percent in the
previous month. That’s the fastest pace since April 2009.  The ECB is scheduled to hold its next monetary assessment
on June 9 in  Frankfurt .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  