-- 
Teva Settles Neurontin Case With Pfizer on Undisclosed Terms

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-05-31T19:01:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/teva-pfizer-settle-generic-neurontin-case-terms-not-disclosed.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, settled claims it had against  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  over generic versions of the Neurontin epilepsy
drug, ending a trial that was under way in federal court.  Financial terms are confidential, Teva, the world’s biggest
generic-drug company, said in a statement. Teva will be able to
continue selling the copy under a license from Pfizer, according
to a filing in the case. U.S. District Judge Faith Hochberg in
 Newark , New Jersey, who was presiding over the trial that began
May 17, dismissed the suit today, according to the court docket.  Pfizer claimed that copies of the pill made by Teva and its
Ivax unit, along with Actavis Group hf’s Purepac unit, infringe
a patent that expires in 2017. The drugmaker was seeking
compensation for profit it lost when sales plunged to $150
million in 2005 from $2.5 billion the previous year because of
the low-cost competition.  The agreement covers Teva, its Ivax unit, and Actavis Group
hf’s Purepac unit, which had an agreement with Teva over its
Neurontin copy, said Chris Loder, a spokesman for New York-based
Pfizer. He declined to provide any financial details.  Low-cost versions of Neurontin have been on the market
since 2004. A federal appeals court in 2007 overturned a U.S.
judge’s ruling that Teva and Ivax didn’t infringe Pfizer’s
patent.  Off-Label Uses  The generic-drug companies also argued that Warner-Lambert
Co., which Pfizer purchased in 2000, turned Neurontin into a
blockbuster drug by illegally marketing it for uses not approved
by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. In 2004, Warner-
Lambert pleaded guilty and agreed to pay $430 million to resolve
U.S. criminal and civil allegations that it marketed Neurontin
for so-called off-label uses.  The patent that was the subject of the trial is for a
process to make gabapentin, the active ingredient in Neurontin,
with fewer contaminants.  Ivax, then a standalone company, began selling a variation
of the drug in August 2004. Purepac started selling its generic
version in October 2004 with Teva after the companies agreed to
share any potential legal costs.  The case is Warner-Lambert Co. v. Purepac Pharmaceutical,
00-cv-2931, U.S. District Court, District of  New Jersey 
(Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  