-- 
Eveready East Africa of Kenya to Diversify as Illicit Imports Cause Loss

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-05-31T08:18:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/eveready-east-africa-of-kenya-to-diversify-as-illicit-imports-cause-loss.html
Eveready East Africa Ltd. (EVRD) , the
region’s biggest dry-cell battery manufacturer, plans to
diversify its product range as it seeks to stem losses resulting
from a declining market share and increased illegal imports.  The company also has no plans “right now” to close its only
manufacturing plant in Kenya to reduce costs, Margaret Odhiambo,
Eveready’s corporate and regulatory affairs manager, said in an
interview yesterday.  Business Daily , a Nairobi-based newspaper,
reported on May 23 that the facility in Nakuru, 140 kilometers
(86 miles) northwest of the capital, may be closed in a cost-
cutting initiative.  “The board is continuously monitoring the situation in
terms of its effects on our business, which may call for other
decisions to be made in future which protect all our
constituents,” Odhiambo said. “Eveready fully intends to
continue to be part of  Kenya ’s corporate scene.”  Eveready’s market share for size D batteries, which are
mostly used to power hand-held torches and radios, has fallen as
more Kenyans are connected to the electricity grid and switch to
using battery sizes including AA and AAA to power toys and
remote controls for television sets, according to Odhiambo.
Size D dry cells generate as much 70 percent of the company’s
business, she said.  Eveready also faces competition from batteries that have
been banned by the  Kenya Bureau of Standards  because they don’t
conform to required standards. The company estimates that about
60 percent of dry-cell batteries are sold illegally.  Diversifying  “We are diversifying, in terms of product and geography,”
Odhiambo said. “We changed our articles to allow us to trade
more apart from the manufacturing that we undertake in Nakuru,
which is ongoing.”  Yesterday, Eveready posted a first-half loss of 54 million
shillings ($628,784), compared with a profit of 12.8 million
shillings a year earlier. Revenue in the six months through
March fell 19 percent to 659.7 million shillings, it said.  Eveready’s problems stem from  tax evasion  by other battery
sellers, the “non-declaration and under-declaration” of imported
dry cells for tax purposes and “what we perceive to be dumping
of dry-cell batteries into this market,” Odhiambo said.  Eveready’s shares were unchanged today at 2.15 shillings.
The stock is the fifth-worst performer on the  Nairobi Stock
Exchange  so far this year, having fallen 28 percent since Jan.
1, according to Bloomberg data.  The company named Jackson Mutua to replace  Steve Smith  as
managing director. Smith leaves the company today, the company
said on May 20.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 