-- 
Ex-Nasdaq Director Plea, EPA Rules, Zillow’s ‘Z’: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-05-31T12:56:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/ex-nasdaq-executive-plea-trading-epa-rules-zillow-s-z-compliance.html
Former  Nasdaq  Stock Market Managing
Director  Donald Johnson  pleaded guilty to using information
gleaned from his position with the exchange to engage in insider
trading, the U.S. Justice Department said.  Johnson, 56, pleaded guilty to one count of securities
fraud, according to papers filed in federal court in Alexandria,
Virginia. He admitted he bought and sold shares of five Nasdaq-
listed companies based on inside information from 2006 to 2009.  He often made the trades from his work computer at Nasdaq,
according to a lawsuit filed at the same time in federal court
in  Manhattan  by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Johnson, a former managing director at Nasdaq’s market
intelligence desk in  New York , admitted making more than
$640,000 from the illegal trades. Johnson used a brokerage
account in his wife’s name to conceal the illicit trades, the
Justice Department said.  Among the shares he traded was  United Therapeutics Corp. (UTHR) 
based on inside information about test results for the drug
Viveta, now called Tyvaso, and about the approval of the drug,
prosecutors said.  “My client chose to accept responsibility today for his
actions,” Johnson’s lawyer, Jonathan Simms, said May 26 in a
phone interview. “Those who know Mr. Johnson will agree that
these charges are in no way indicative of his overall
character.”  Johnson faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison at
his sentencing, scheduled for Aug. 12. The plea deal didn’t
include an agreement on what sentence the government will ask
the judge to impose, Simms said.  “We’re fully cooperating with the authorities,” said
Frank De Maria, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, who declined to
comment further.  The case is U.S. v. Johnson, 11-254, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria.)  Compliance Policy  High-Frequency Trading Needs More Control, AMF’s Jouyet Says  Regulators may need to develop “circuit-breakers” that
halt high-frequency trading practices like those that
exacerbated a stock market plunge a year ago, said the head of
France’s financial markets regulator.  Jean-Pierre Jouyet, chairman of Autorite des Marches
Financiers, said in a speech at the  International Capital Market
Association  annual conference in Paris on May 27 that the
measure would provide for circuit breakers like the ones in the
U.S.  High-frequency trading is a computer-driven trading method
in which firms may make thousands of transactions a second. The
so-called flash crash of May 6, 2010, which temporarily erased
$862 billion in stock value, spurred U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission proposals for market circuit breakers and
plans to establish a system for cross-market surveillance.  The rise of high-frequency trading techniques has made it
harder for investors to analyze movements in markets, Jouyet
said. “Precise rules” are required to ensure markets can
“return to their role of financing the economy,” he said.  EPA Rules Maligned by Industry Seen Untouched in Overhaul  U.S. environmental rules most maligned by industry,
including limits on toxic emissions from coal-fired  power
plants , escaped the federal regulatory overhaul ordered by
President Barack Obama, critics said.  The Environmental Protection Agency, in response to Obama’s
executive-branch directive, said May 26 it plans 31 reviews this
year. These include eliminating a requirement in some states for
vapor-recovery systems at gas stations, saving about $670
million during the next 10 years. The agency also said it will
aim to coordinate air-pollution rules.  The  U.S. Chamber of Commerce , the largest U.S. business
group, said the EPA’s preliminary response to Obama falls short
because of what it leaves out. While the administration is
promoting Obama’s push for agencies to take a new look at their
rules to get rid of burdensome and unnecessary mandates, the EPA
plan “borders on the trivial,” Bloomberg Government analyst
Rob Barnett said in a research note May 26.  Like the EPA, the Energy and Interior departments seem
mainly focused on reducing paperwork and shifting to electronic
reporting of certain data, according to Barnett.  The Chamber has said Obama’s EPA is issuing more major
rules, or those costing industry at least $100 million, than any
administration in at least three decades.  An EPA spokeswoman didn’t respond May 26 to several
requests for comment.  For more, click here.  EU Says It Won’t Weaken Effects of Basel Rules in the Region  The European Union’s financial services chief said the
region will respect the “level of ambition” of global rules on
capital and liquidity endorsed by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision.  Criticisms that the EU will not “properly” implement the
measures, known as Basel III, are “unjustified and simply
factually wrong,” Michel Barnier, the member of the European
Commission dealing with banking regulation, said in an e-mailed
statement May 27.  Barnier told lawmakers earlier this week that the EU would
carry out a thorough analysis before deciding whether to
implement a binding limit on bank indebtedness proposed by the
Basel committee. Draft legislation prepared by the commission,
and circulated to national finance ministries this month also
says the EU is debating whether to apply some Basel rules.  “ Europe  will implement Basel III: we have said it before
and I confirm it to you today, the commission’s proposals to
implement Basel III will respect the balance and level of
ambition included” in the committee’s work, Barnier said May
27.  Global regulators in the Basel committee adopted the
standards last year to mitigate the effects of future banking
crises.  The commission’s draft proposals for implementing Basel III
fall short of promising to seek a mandatory adoption of a so-
called net-stable funding ratio, which aims to limit the
mismatch between the duration of loans and deposits, to ensure
that banks don’t face cash-flow shortages. Instead, it says the
commission will “consider proposing” such a requirement
“after an observation and review period.”  For more, click here.  Sarkozy Seeks Investor ‘Burden Sharing’ in Greek Endgame  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said bondholders need to
share the burden of solving Greece’s fiscal woes, following
leaders in  Germany  and Luxembourg in raising the prospect of a
Greek debt restructuring.  Sarkozy called for a “formula” involving investors,
adding to talk that Europe may engineer an extension of Greece’s
debt-repayment schedule or press creditors to buy new bonds as
old ones mature.  “Restructuring is a poorly used word,” Sarkozy told
reporters May 27 after a Group of Eight summit in Deauville,
France. “If it means that we can think of ways for the private
sector, private operators, to take on a share of the burden,
it’s not restructuring at all; then there are formulas, there is
no problem, and we should then converge in that direction.”  Saddled with Europe’s heaviest debt load, Greece is seeking
additional loans after last year’s 110 billion-euro ($157
billion) European-led package failed to dig it out of its fiscal
hole. The  European Central Bank  has led the charge against a
restructuring, warning of a domino effect in European markets.  In his first comments on a potential restructuring, Sarkozy
gave no timeline for talks on pushing bondholders to take losses
in Greece. A planned permanent European rescue fund would
mandate some “private-sector involvement” as of mid-2013.  For more, click here.  Europe Imposes Repression Pimco Sees Going Global: Euro Credit  European governments are pursuing ways to dragoon the
private sector into helping them fight the sovereign debt crisis
in a strategy other over-leveraged nations may soon adopt.  Increasingly unable to deliver enough austerity or growth
to slash debt, Portugal plans to “encourage” domestic banks
and savers to maintain their debt exposure and Greece may soon
follow. The cajoling is aimed at easing the financing of public
debt even if it exposes creditors to greater risks and lower
returns than they would otherwise accept. The investors may pay
that price to avoid the greater pain of a restructuring.  European governments are struggling to persuade investors
of their credit-worthiness 18 months since the debt turmoil
began and a year since Greece tapped a bailout. Pacific
Investment Management Co. says advanced economies, including the
U.S., will introduce their own versions by pushing savers to
accept returns below inflation, while Morgan Stanley says new
regulations will force financial companies to increase their
holdings of government securities.  For more, click here.  Qatar to Set Up Junior Market for Small, Medium-Sized Companies  Qatar plans to create a secondary market at the  Qatar
Exchange  for small and medium-sized companies, the bourse said
yesterday in a  release  on its website.  The May 25 decision by the  Supreme Council for Economic
Affairs and Investment  would increase small and medium-sized
companies’ “efficiency and enhance their role, so they will be
able to occupy advanced positions regionally and
internationally,” the Qatar Exchange’s vice chairman, Ahmad Al-
Sayed, said in the statement.  The regulations for listing on the junior market will be
“lighter” and more “flexible” than the regulations for
listing on the main Qatar Exchange, the bourse said.  Compliance Action  Zillow With a Z Will Break NYSE Grip on One-Letter Tickers  Zillow Inc. wants to end the New York Stock Exchange’s
monopoly on companies trading under a single letter.  Zillow, a real-estate website that filed last month to
raise as much as $51.8 million by going public, disclosed this
week that it applied for a Nasdaq Stock Market listing under the
ticker Z. Assuming the application is approved, Zillow would be
the first Nasdaq stock with a one-letter symbol.  Nasdaq-listed companies have been able to trade under a
single letter since July 2007, when the Securities and Exchange
Commission changed the regulations that governed ticker symbols.
Before then, stocks could only have one to three letters on the
NYSE or the former American Stock Exchange, now NYSE Amex.  Another company preparing for an initial public offering,
Pandora Media Inc., plans to list its shares on the NYSE under
the letter P. The Internet-music service would become the first
company to use that ticker since September 2002, when Phillips
Petroleum Co. combined with Conoco Inc. to form ConocoPhillips.  The Z ticker has been available since March 2003, when Foot
Locker Inc. adopted FL as its symbol. Z had previously been used
by Foot Locker and three predecessor companies -- Venator Group
Inc., Woolworth Corp. and F.W. Woolworth Co. -- since 1925.  A Zillow spokeswoman, Charlynn Duecy, declined to comment
on the decision to use the symbol. The Seattle-based company
provides property-value estimates and displays real-estate
listings on its site.  Rich Adamonis, a spokesman for  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , declined to
comment.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s Frank De Maria didn’t return a
telephone call and e-mail seeking comment.  For more, click here.  EU Carries Out Antitrust Inspections in Engines Sector  European Union antitrust regulators officials this week
carried out unannounced inspections of companies active in the
manufacturing, supply and distribution of piston engines mainly
used for industrial applications.  The antitrust inspections took place on May 25 in several
EU member states, the  European Commission   said  May 27 in a
statement without naming the countries or companies involved.  “The commission has reason to believe that the companies
concerned may have engaged in anticompetitive practices,”
according to the statement.  Abu Dhabi Hires Auditor to Check Saadiyat Labor Conditions  The Abu Dhabi government-owned Tourism Development &
Investment Co. hired an international auditor to monitor
contractors’ treatment of 11,000 laborers on Saadiyat Island,
where branches of the Guggenheim and Louvre museums are being
built.  TDIC appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as an independent
monitor to oversee contractors and subcontractors working on its
projects and their compliance with regulations protecting
workers welfare, the company said in an e-mailed statement
today.  The company said incidents of noncompliance reported in the
audit “will be handed up to TDIC senior executives for
action,” and “strict penalties” are in place to deal with
breaches.  The Abu Dhabi Guggenheim, designed by Frank Gehry, is due
to open after 2014 on  Saadiyat Island , or Island of Happiness,
as part of the emirate’s push to diversify its economy away from
oil revenue. The island will house $27 billion of developments
including a branch of the Louvre Museum that is set to open in
2013, the Zayed National Museum scheduled for 2014, and a New
York University campus.  The Guggenheim project came under attack earlier this year
when artists and curators threatened to boycott the project
unless laborers’ rights were protected. Laborers in the United
Arab Emirates, most of whom come from the Indian subcontinent,
have complained of being forced to work long hours in scorching
summer temperatures, and of having their passports confiscated
and wages withheld by employers.  For more, click here.  Bilfinger Probed by U.S. Over Alleged Bribe Payments in Nigeria  Bilfinger Berger SE (GBF)  said the U.S. Department of Justice is
probing Germany’s second-largest construction company over
alleged bribery payments in Nigeria.  Bilfinger is cooperating with the U.S. officials, Sascha
Bamberger, a spokesman for the Mannheim-based company, said in
an interview yesterday. He declined to provide more details as
the case is pending. A related investigation in Frankfurt is
examining seven current and former Bilfinger managers, according
to the prosecutors’ spokeswoman Doris Moeller-Scheu.  Nigeria has been probing $180 million of alleged bribery
payments by several companies to win a $6 billion liquefied
natural-gas contract. Corruption charges against  Julius Berger
Nigeria Plc (JBERGER)  were dropped as part of a settlement.  Courts  Nvidia Senior Analyst, Barai Capital Founder Plead Guilty  Sonny Nguyen, a senior financial analyst for  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) ,
pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit securities and wire fraud
in a case that is part of the U.S. government’s largest
crackdown of insider trading at  hedge funds .  Nguyen told U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff May 27 that he
passed tips about Nvidia’s quarterly earnings before they were
publicly announced to Winifred Jiau, a former consultant with
expert-networking firm Primary Global Research LLC, who is
scheduled to go on trial before Rakoff on June 1. Assistant U.S.
Attorney Avi Weitzman told Rakoff that Nguyen is cooperating
with the government and will be a witness against Jiau.  Nguyen faces as long as five years in prison when he is
sentenced by Rakoff on Nov. 29, Weitzman said.  Nguyen was permitted to remain free on $100,000 personal
recognizance bond and allowed to travel between his home in
California and New York. Rakoff told him to surrender his
passport.  His lawyer, Douglas Schneider, and Weitzman declined to
comment after court. Bob Sherbin, a spokesman for Nvidia, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  Separately, Barai Capital Management LP founder Samir Barai
pleaded guilty May 27 to securities fraud and other charges just
hours after Nguyen’s guilty plea.  Barai, 39, of New York, also pleaded guilty in Manhattan
federal court to conspiracy to commit securities and wire fraud,
and obstruction for impeding a federal grand jury probe by
destroying evidence. U.S. Magistrate Judge Nathaniel Fox said
Barai could face as long as 65 years in prison when he is
sentenced Aug. 29.  Barai spoke into a microphone to describe his crimes,
saying he conspired with two SAC Capital Advisors LP fund
managers, Noah Freeman and Donald Longueuil, to violate federal
securities laws. Freeman and Longueuil have pleaded guilty to
insider trading charges in the case. Freeman is cooperating with
prosecutors.  The cases are U.S. v. Barai 11-cr-00116, and U.S. v.
Nguyen, 11-CR-161, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews  BlackRock’s Fink Says Europe Problems Go ‘Way Beyond’ Greece  Europe’s financial problems aren’t confined to Greece and a
reorganization of the continent’s banking system is necessary,
Laurence D. Fink, chief executive officer of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,
said in a Bloomberg television interview yesterday.  “The European problem is way beyond Greece,” Fink said in
the interview in Hong Kong. “Greece is the most immediate
problem. I find it very difficult to restructure Greece without
the understanding that we’re probably going to have to
restructure Ireland and restructure Portugal.”  Inspectors from the EU,  International Monetary Fund  and
European Central Bank are set to wrap up a review of Greece’s
progress in meeting the terms of last year’s 110 billion-euro
($157 billion) bailout in coming days. The EU will then
formulate its plan for further aid to Greece, which remains shut
out of financial markets a year after the rescue package.  Many smaller banks in Europe will need to be recapitalized,
said Fink. The largest banks on the continent are well
capitalized, though devaluation of some of the sovereign credit
will put stress on them, he added.  “The banking system in Europe owns all this debt,” Fink
said. “If we restructure one country, we’re now basically
putting huge capital stress on these banks. Before we
restructure any country, we’re going to have to restructure the
banking system in Europe.”  Europe is going to need a “giant TARP,” Fink said,
referring to the Troubled Asset Relief Program that the U.S.
introduced to rescue financial firms.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 