-- 
Texas Democrats Blocking School Aid Bill Force Extra Session

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/texas-democrats-blocking-school-aid-bill-force-extra-session.html
Texas lawmakers will meet in a
special session to act on an education-finance bill vital to
its new budget after Democrats delayed a vote on the measure,
which lowers school spending by $4 billion.  Governor  Rick Perry  set the extra session for today after
a May 29 filibuster by Senator Wendy Davis, a Fort Worth
Democrat, blocked a vote on the school bill. The  House of
Representatives  passed a similar measure earlier that day.  Lawmakers worked through the weekend to pass a budget that
calls for $86.9 billion in general-fund spending in the two
years that start in September, down 1.9 percent from the
current period, state documents show. Including U.S. funds and
money dedicated to specific uses, the state would spend $172.3
billion, or 8.1 percent less than the current period. The plan
falls short of mandated school-aid levels, which would be
addressed by the education-finance bill to lower requirements.  “This is the worst  Texas  budget in more than a
generation,” Representative Joaquin Castro, a San Antonio
Democrat, told reporters in a briefing yesterday. Democrats
including Davis said the plan will hurt cash-strapped schools.  While the budget boosts general-fund spending on schools
by 9 percent, U.S. aid cuts offset the gain, and the total
would be little changed from the current biennium at $53.8
billion, state budget documents show. The budget doesn’t
address the expected addition of about 160,000 new students
over the next two years, Representative Rafael Anchia, a Dallas
Democrat, said at a May 29 press conference.  Forced Cuts  Lingering effects from the longest recession since the
Great Depression that include lower sales-tax receipts forced
cuts, said Republican leaders including Lieutenant Governor
David Dewhurst. Republicans dominate both legislative chambers.  “It’s important that Texas has remained consistent in
avoiding higher taxes and keeping spending under control,”
Representative Rob Orr, a Burleson Republican, said in an
interview.  Comptroller Susan Combs, also a Republican, said she won’t
certify the budget unless the school-finance bill passes.  Dewhurst asked Perry, a fellow Republican, to authorize
special-session passage of legislation by simple majority votes
rather than the Senate’s traditional two-thirds margin.  “A small number of Senate Democrats have demonstrated
their unwillingness to find consensus on these important
legislative items,” Dewhurst said.  Texas law limits the legislature to a single 140-day
session every other year. Governors are permitted to call
special sessions on emergency matters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  