-- 
Falcone Wireless Venture Said to Consider AT&T Capacity Deal

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-06-01T20:24:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/falcone-venture-said-considering-deal-with-at-t-for-capacity.html
Billionaire Philip Falcone’s
LightSquared Inc. mobile-phone venture is considering a deal
with  AT&T Inc. (T)  to buy network capacity from the carrier, two
people with knowledge of the talks said.  The initiative is preliminary and may not result in a deal,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the plan
isn’t public.  Under an agreement, LightSquared would pay to use AT&T’s
so-called fourth-generation network when it needs additional
capacity, the people said. AT&T is building a 4G network and
plans to introduce it this year in its hometown of Dallas as
well as  Chicago , Atlanta, Houston and  San Antonio .  LightSquared, based in Reston, Virginia, said in March that
it reached a roaming agreement with  Leap Wireless International
Inc. (LEAP)  that would allow the San Diego-based pay-as-you-go carrier
to access Falcone’s network as it builds out an LTE network in
the coming years.  LightSquared, backed by Falcone’s Harbinger Capital
Partners hedge fund, proposes serving 260 million mobile devices
over a network of 36,000 terrestrial towers, using airwaves once
reserved primarily for satellite signals.  The company will have to resolve concerns that its network
may interfere with global-positioning systems. At the request of
the Federal Communications Commission, it’s participating in a
working group to study the issue and will submit findings on
June 15.  Audrey Schaefer, a spokeswoman for LightSquared, and  Mark Siegel , an AT&T spokesman, declined to comment.  AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless carrier, lost 39
cents to $31.17 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares have gained 6.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  