-- 
Fed’s U.S. Research Division Director David Stockton to Retire Sept. 30

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-05-31T18:26:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/fed-s-u-s-research-division-director-david-stockton-to-retire-sept-30.html
The Federal Reserve Board said David Stockton, its head of U.S. economic research and forecasting
since 2000, is retiring Sept. 30 after three decades at the
central bank.  Stockton, 57, leads 325 people as director of the Division
of Research and Statistics, the Fed said today in a statement in
 Washington . No successor was named.  Stockton is one of the three top Board of Governors staff
officials who brief Fed policy makers on  interest rates  and U.S.
and international economic developments. Like most forecasters,
he didn’t foresee the speed and depth of the collapse in the
housing market last decade, which led to an 18-month recession.  “This was a problem in economics, not one specific to any
one forecaster,” said  Vincent Reinhart , who worked alongside
Stockton as director of the Fed’s monetary-affairs division from
2001 to 2007. “Low-frequency events, things that don’t happen
very often, are very hard to pick out of the data,” he said.  Stockton’s efforts to improve computer models and data
collection only focused on a “limited slice” of information,
he said, adding that academic papers have found the Fed’s
projections to be more accurate than private forecasts. Reinhart
is a scholar at the  American Enterprise Institute  in Washington.  Since the meltdown in U.S. mortgage finance the central
bank has overhauled how it looks at financial risk and its
linkage to the economy. Stockton now sits on a multi-
disciplinary committee that studies large financial institutions
and specific markets. His staff monitors financial stability in
greater depth as part of Fed efforts to more closely track how
events such as a European sovereign default may cause market
instability and harm U.S. economic growth.  ‘Right Direction’  “I don’t think a central bank can exist today without a
dedicated financial stability operation,” said Roberto Perli, a
managing director at International Strategy & Investment Group
in Washington and a former Fed Board staff economist. “It is a
step in the right direction.”  As division head, Stockton also has some say over the Fed
Board’s research agenda. On top of his list of priorities these
days is figuring out how the contraction in 2008 and 2009 may
have left a lasting imprint on company and consumer behavior.
Unemployment, for example, stood at 9 percent in April despite
seven consecutive quarters of expansion. Stockton’s staff is now
probing whether this is temporary or more permanent, and
studying what the long-term consequences for income might be.  Stockton has always expressed a realistic view about the
ability of economists to predict the course of an economy as big
and diverse as the U.S., said former Fed Governor  Laurence Meyer .  ‘Never Oversold’  “Stockton always understood the inherent uncertainty in any
forecast,” said Meyer, co-founder of the St. Louis forecasting
firm Macroeconomic Advisers LLC. “He never oversold to the
committee.”  At the interest-rate meeting in December 2005, Stockton
presented a forecast that growth would slow to about its long-
term trend, an outlook he acknowledged “seems too good to be
true,” according to a transcript. Still, he also said that
“obviously, there are some very important risks on both sides
of our forecasts for real activity and inflation.”  In August 2007, the Fed staff “lowered somewhat its
forecast of real GDP growth in the second half of 2007 and in
2008,” minutes of the meeting said. The worst recession in
seven decades, brought on by the housing-market bust, began in
December 2007. The contraction was the longest since the 43-
month slump during the Great Depression, according to the
 National Bureau of Economic Research .  Housing Bust  Stockton, known for his sense of humor, could mix
statistical analysis with anecdotes. At the same December 2005
meeting he told Fed governors and regional-bank presidents that
the creation of “Flip That House,” a television show,
suggested that the housing boom would soon end.  “As far as I could tell, the gist of the show was that
with some spackling, a few strategically placed azaleas and
access to a bank, you too could tap into the great real estate
wealth machine,” Stockton said, according to a Federal Open
Market Committee meeting transcript released in January with
other 2005 transcripts, the most recent year available.  The other two top staff economists are William English,
director of the Division of Monetary Affairs since July, and
Nathan Sheets, who’s headed the Division of International
Finance since 2007.  Staff Projections  While the Fed now discloses the ranges of economic growth,
inflation and unemployment projections of governors and
regional-bank presidents after FOMC meetings, the central bank
keeps secret for five years the forecasts of Stockton and his
staff. FOMC minutes, released three weeks after each meeting,
use qualitative, rather than quantitative, language to describe
the staff projections.  “Dave Stockton is one of the finest economists I have
known,” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in today’s statement.
“My colleagues on the Committee and I have enjoyed the benefits
of his penetrating and insightful analysis and impeccable
judgment.”  One possible successor to Stockton is David Wilcox, his top
lieutenant, Reinhart said.  In addition to advising the FOMC, the research division,
which includes 111 economists with doctorates, produces
statistical releases including the Industrial Production and
Flow of Funds reports as well as research to support the Fed’s
responsibilities in financial stability and bank supervision.  Stockton’s job is turning the underlying data of staff
forecast -- including discrete calculations by specialists in
inflation, investment and spending -- into a broad narrative
about how the economy is performing.  “It is a complicated and iterative process that needs
outstanding leadership,” Meyer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  