-- 
Fed’s U.S. Research Division Director David Stockton to Retire Sept. 30

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-05-31T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/fed-s-stockton-chief-u-s-economic-forecaster-will-retire.html
The Federal Reserve Board said David Stockton, its head of U.S. economic research and forecasting
since 2000, is retiring Sept. 30 after three decades at the
central bank.  Stockton, 57, leads 325 people as director of the Division
of Research and Statistics, the Fed said today in a statement in
 Washington . No successor was named.  Stockton is one of the three top Board of Governors staff
officials who brief Fed policy makers on  interest rates  and U.S.
and international economic developments. The other two are
William English, director of the Division of Monetary Affairs
since July, and Nathan Sheets, who’s headed the Division of
International Finance since 2007.  While the Fed now discloses the ranges of economic growth,
inflation and unemployment projections of governors and
regional-bank presidents after Federal Open Market Committee
meetings, the central bank keeps secret for five years the
forecasts of Stockton and his staff. FOMC minutes, released
three weeks after each meeting, use qualitative, rather than
quantitative, language to describe the staff projections.  “Dave Stockton is one of the finest economists I have
known,” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in today’s statement.
“My colleagues on the Committee and I have enjoyed the benefits
of his penetrating and insightful analysis and impeccable
judgment.”  In addition to advising the FOMC, the research division
produces statistical releases including the Industrial
Production and Flow of Funds reports as well as research to
support the Fed’s responsibilities in financial stability and
bank supervision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  