-- 
FIFA Sponsors on ‘Edge of Chairs,’ Former Partner MasterCard Says

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-31T07:05:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/fifa-sponsors-on-edge-of-chairs-former-partner-mastercard-says.html
The corruption scandal that has
engulfed soccer’s governing body has put its sponsors on edge,
the head of European sponsorship at former FIFA partner
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)  said.  “What I certainly see is that it has certainly woken a few
people up and it puts us always on the edge of our chairs to
ensure that when we do these partnerships we look at the whole
package,” Paul Meulendijk, Head of Sponsorship at MasterCard
Europe, said in an interview in London.  FIFA , whose sponsorship and broadcast contracts bring in $4
billion thanks to staging the  World Cup , is embroiled in its
biggest-ever crisis after yesterday suspending Vice Chairman
Jack Warner and Mohamed Bin Hammam, head of the sport in  Asia .  Investigators are studying allegations that Warner
facilitated Bin Hammam’s efforts to bribe Caribbean officials to
vote for him in a June 1 presidential poll against incumbent
Sepp Blatter. Seven other senior officials have been sanctioned
with or implicated in corruption allegations in the past year.
 Bin Hammam  withdrew from the race hours before his suspension
was announced. Blatter was investigated and cleared by FIFA’s
ethics committee.  Breaching Contract  MasterCard sponsored the World Cup for 16 years before the
relationship ended in acrimony when FIFA was ordered to pay the
second-largest credit card company $90 million in 2006 for
breaching a contract by not allowing it to negotiate a renewal
before signing Visa Inc. to a $170 million, eight-year contract.
Meulendijk declined to say if he was relieved MasterCard no
longer had a deal with FIFA.  “I think we would very quickly meet each other to see what
we need to do in terms of this partnership,” he said when asked
what his company would do if one of its partners faced a similar
situation to FIFA’s. MasterCard sponsors the  Champions League ,
European soccer’s elite club competition. “I think we’d put it
on the table to find solutions.”  Three of FIFA’s current partners have been forced to
comment on their relationship with the sports body. In October,
when allegations of impropriety over the bidding races for the
2018 and 2022 World Cups were first made, Sony Corp. said it was
reviewing the partnership. Adidas AG, a sponsor since 1970, told
Bloomberg News on May 3 in an e-mailed statement, “the negative
tenor of public debates is neither good for the sport of
football nor for FIFA as an institution and its partners.”  “The current allegations being raised are distressing and
bad for the sport,”  Coca-Cola Co (KO) , added yesterday. “We have
every expectation that FIFA will resolve this situation in an
expedient and thorough manner.”  Corruption Problems  A scheduled meeting between Bloomberg News and FIFA’s
marketing director Thierry Weil to discuss the matter and other
issues was canceled yesterday.  FIFA has faced corruption problems before. A court in Zug,
 Switzerland  last year heard officials at the sport’s
organization benefitted from bribes paid by its now-bankrupt
marketing partner ISL for almost two decades. The current
scandal is considered worse because it has current senior
officials accusing one another of graft.  Salt Lake City   Patrick Nally, a consultant who brokered Coca-Cola Co’s
original deal with FIFA in 1976, said the crisis is similar to
one that engulfed the  International Olympic Committee  over a
bribery scandal that centered on Salt Lake City’s bid for the
2002  Winter Games . Several officials were expelled and the IOC
was forced to strengthen its ethics code.  “They have to radically change like the IOC did because
you get to an era where you cannot manage on the basis of what
you’ve been doing for the last 20-odd years,” Nally said in a
telephone interview. “Is this a moment when major change has to
come? They’ve got absolutely no choice it has to come.”  He added that FIFA was in a “watershed” moment.  “They’re fighting among themselves. This isn’t right. It’s
very clear the time has come that there has to be a massive
change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Zurich via the  London  newsroom at 
3677 or  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 