-- 
Fitch Cuts Cyprus Ratings 3 Notches, Citing Greek Exposure

-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s   a n d   T i m   S m i t h
-- 
2011-05-31T15:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/fitch-cuts-cyprus-ratings-3-notches-citing-greek-exposure-2-.html
Cyprus’s long-term foreign and local
currency issuer default ratings were cut three notches to A-
from AA- by  Fitch Ratings , which cited risks related to the
financial problems in  Greece .  “The downgrade reflects the severity of the crisis in
neighboring Greece and the risk this poses for the Cypriot
banking system and, consequently, the public finances of
Cyprus,” Chris Pryce, a director in Fitch’s Sovereign Group,
said in a statement.  About a third of Cypriot banks’ assets, which are nine
times the size of the country’s economy, are tied to Greek
borrowers, according to the statement. Cypriot banks hold 15
billion euros ($20 billion) in Greek  government bonds  and about
5 billion in bank bonds, as well as loans to Greek households
and companies.  Cyprus’s major banks, Bank of Cyprus, Marfin Popular Bank
and Hellenic Bank, are “relatively well-placed” to absorb the
impact of a 50 percent reduction in principle on Greek debt,
while a Greek default could make “extensive sovereign support”
for lenders necessary, according to Fitch.  “In a more severe  stress test , where a Greek sovereign
default was associated with significant deterioration in asset
quality such that non-performing loans rose to 25 percent, the
cost of recapitalizing the banks could rise to 25 percent” of
gross domestic product, the rating company said.  Well capitalized  The  Central Bank of Cyprus  disagreed with the analysis
behind Fitch’s decision, saying it regulates banks strictly.  Cypriot banks remain profitable after strengthening their
capital base in the past year and they already comply in this
respect with Basel III requirements, the central bank said.  “Maintaining sound public finances is necessary in
addition to further strengthening the banking sector,” the bank
said in an e-mailed statement from Nicosia.  The banking system is “particularly strong with a high
capital base and very high liquidity,” said the  Ministry of
Finance , which also disagreed with Fitch’s decision.  “It can withstand any theoretical scenario of a Greek debt
restructuring,” the Nicosia-based ministry said in an e-mailed
statement.  Even as “Cyprus remains in the upper middle class of
creditworthy countries,” the government will continue on its
fiscal consolidation efforts and the structural reforms to
bolster the Cypriot economy, the ministry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Smith  in Sydney at 
 tsmith58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  