-- 
Rafael Nadal Fights Doubts to Meet Soderling in French Open Tennis Rematch

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-31T22:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/five-time-champion-nadal-fights-doubts-soderling-in-french-open-rematch.html
Rafael Nadal  must overcome two
hurdles today to reach the  French Open  semifinals -- the only
player to beat him on the red clay of Paris, and his own doubts
about winning a record-tying sixth championship.  Nadal, the top seed and defending champion from Spain,
meets  Robin Soderling , the fifth seed from Sweden who beat him
in the fourth round at Roland Garros two years ago.  A straight-set victory against Ivan Ljubicic two days ago
left Nadal’s French Open career record at 42-1. Yet the 24-year-
old left-hander has said repeatedly that he’s no longer the best
player, overtaken by second-seeded Novak Djokovic and his 41-
match winning streak this year.  “I won four times already here, five times already here,”
Nadal said at a news conference after beating Ljubicic. “I
don’t have an obligation to win six. But I am going to try for
sure.”  Just like after his opening-round match against  John Isner 
of the U.S., when he was taken to a fifth set for the first time
at the French Open, Nadal said he was “too anxious” and
“nervous” in his latest victory, and that his play wasn’t good
enough to win the title. He needs one more championship to tie
the modern French Open men’s record of six, set by Bjorn Borg.  Li Faces Azarenka  Li Na  plays  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus, at No. 4 the
highest seed left in the women’s draw, for a spot in the
semifinals. Na is the first Chinese player to make it to the
last eight at Roland Garros.  Former Wimbledon champion  Maria Sharapova  faces No. 15 seed
 Andrea Petkovic  of Germany in the other women’s quarterfinal,
the Russian’s first appearance in the last eight of a major in
two years.  No. 4 men’s seed  Andy Murray  of Britain plays  Juan Ignacio
Chela  of Argentina for a semifinal spot against the Nadal-
Soderling winner.  Murray came back from a two-set deficit yesterday to defeat
No. 15 Viktor Troicki of Serbia, who was two points from victory
in the final set. Third-seeded  Roger Federer  of Switzerland
defeated France’s Gael Monfils, the ninth seed, in straight sets
to reach a semifinal against Djokovic.  Women’s defending champion Francesca Schiavone of Italy and
No. 11 Marion Bartoli of  France  won yesterday to set up a
semifinal match.  Nadal has a lot to be nervous about in Paris. Djokovic is
on a 43-0 winning streak since the Davis Cup final in December,
and will take Nadal’s No. 1 world ranking if he can defeat
Federer in their semifinal.  Nadal’s 2010 Season  Nadal won the French Open, Wimbledon and the  U.S. Open  last
year, and started this season with a shot at becoming the first
man since Rod Laver in 1969 to hold all four Grand Slam titles
at the same time. Instead, he left the Australian Open in tears
after a ruptured thigh muscle hampered his movement in a
quarterfinal loss to  Spain ’s David Ferrer.  “Nobody can always keep the same level forever,” Nadal
said in Paris.  Djokovic won his second major title in Melbourne and has
since defeated Nadal in four finals. Nadal’s loss to Djokovic in
the clay-court Madrid title match last month was the Spaniard’s
first on the slow surface since Soderling beat him two years
ago.  Even full of self-doubt, Nadal will be difficult to beat on
his favorite surface, Soderling said.  “I have to be mentally ready for a really tough match,”
he said. “He’s not going to give you anything. You have to
fight. Against Rafa you have to fight for every point.”  Nadal beat Soderling in last year’s final and called the
Swede “an incredible, all-around player.” The Spaniard said
he’s hoping to lift his game.  “I think that I’ll have to be more demanding,” Nadal
said. “I will have to live up to my own expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  