-- 
Fleet Foxes Vocal Flights, Dale Earnhardt Jr. Jr. Tuneful Tour

-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 
2011-05-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/fleet-foxes-vocal-flights-dale-earnhardt-jr-jr-tuneful-tour-june-music.html
“Welcome to Xanadu,” said Fleet
Foxes lead singer Robin Pecknold, taking the stage on May 18 in
the majestic  United Palace Theater , with its plush red-velvet
seats and gold-painted walls.  The six-piece group opened with the ethereal instrumental
“The Cascades,” then raised the tempo for “Grown Ocean.”
Pecknold strummed guitar as he launched soaring vocals wrapped
in the band’s escalating harmonies, all anchored by Josh
Tillman’s muscular drumming. It was impressive with its
musicality and raw power.  Touring in support of sophomore album “Helplessness
Blues,” which had its debut at No. 4 on the Billboard Top 200,
the band offered no backdrops or light show. Sheer talent
sufficed.  With the opening notes to “Bedouin Dress,” Pecknold’s
voice took hold and Morgan Henderson’s violin added a touch of
elegance. The cascading harmonies continued as the Portland,
Oregon, band worked through the swirling “Sim Sala Bim.” From
a slow start to a fast finish, this number had it all.  The peak came when the players delved into material from
the first album and EP. “Mykonos” felt timeless with its vocal
prowess and easygoing beat, while “Your Protector” had a
propulsive folk-rock sound. The bright and shimmering “ooos”
of “White Winter Hymnal” segued into the breezy and jumpy
“Ragged Wood.”  All evening the crowd shouted requests but the most
insistent was for “Oliver James.” Pecknold provided a solo
rendition that had him on his tip toes for high notes. The crowd
rewarded with roars and cheers, and then the band returned for
“Helplessness Blues,” and another standing ovation.  American Flags  Brooklyn ’s  Rock Shop  was given a patriotic feel on May 12.
On the tiny stage, microphone stands and keyboards were hung
with U.S. flags, the drums with checkered flags. Two sets of
large wooden letters “J” and “R” lined with  light bulbs  graced
the front and back of the cramped setting.  Then the three members of Dale Earnhardt Jr. Jr. came out
wearing Nascar gear -- which they quickly shed in favor of suits
and ties. Not your typical start to a night of New York indie
music.  Band founders Josh Epstein and Daniel Zott, who both hail
from  Detroit , played the experimental sounding “Morning
Thought,” then began to whistle the intro of “Simple Girl.”
The tune was on their 2010 breakout EP “Horse Power” --
sticking with the car theme.  They moved into “Vocal Chords” and traded guitar licks
while soap bubbles drifted down on band and audience. Everyone
jumped around as the lights went low; the wooden-letter lights
took over and more bubbles fell.  All Over the Map  Longtime friends, Epstein and Zott showed great chemistry,
trading off verses during “If It Wasn’t You.” The vocals soon
looped as part of Paul Anka’s “ New York , New York,” while the
bass climbed and the guitar rang out.  A harmonious rendition of the Beach Boys’ “God Only
Knows” followed as the band toured the musical map. “Almost
Lost Detroit” gave some soulful R&B moments, while the set
wrapped up with a soothing, slowed-down “Skeletons.”  The encores offered a blistering cover of Steve Winwood’s
“Higher Love,” with Epstein rocking the sax solo, and the
band’s own “Nothing But Our Love.” The packed room cheered
before pouring onto the streets of Brooklyn just after midnight.  The group’s debut full-length “It’s a Corporate World” is
due June 7 on Quite Scientific Records. The band will be touring
in support for most of June along the West Coast and in the
Midwest, with pit-stops at such U.S. festivals as Lollapalooza
in August and Austin City Limits in September.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in May. Please
note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows marked (SO)
are sold out, although online services such as Craigslist often
have tickets.  (Jaime Widder works in sales for Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in New York at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 