-- 
Food Prices to Double in 20 Years Without Action, Oxfam Says

-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 
2011-05-31T06:49:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/food-prices-to-double-in-20-years-without-action-oxfam-says-1-.html
Prices for staple foods including
corn will more than double in two decades unless action is
taken, Oxfam International said in a report.  Prices will increase by 120 percent to 180 percent by 2030,
with as much as half the increase caused by  climate change ,
Oxfam said. The world’s poorest people, who spend up to 80
percent of their income on food, will be hardest hit, it said.  Food demand will rise by 70 percent by 2050 while the
growth rate in agriculture yields is set to decline to less than
1 percent in the next decade, according to the Oxfam charity.
World food prices already climbed to a record in February,
according to the United Nations, helping to spur riots in
northern Africa and the  Middle East  and spurring at least a
dozen central banks to raise  interest rates  this year.  “The food system must be overhauled if we are to overcome
the increasingly pressing challenges of climate change,
spiraling food prices and the scarcity of land, water and
energy,” Oxfam Chief Executive Officer Barbara Stocking said in
a statement. The Oxfam Grow campaign is supported by  Brazil ’s
former president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva and Noble Prize
Winner Desmond Tutu, Oxfam said.  Group of 20 nations should end “biofuel policies” and
boost food reserves to make enough food available for growing
populations, Oxfam said. One in four of the world’s hungry
people live in  India , it said. Governments meeting at a climate
change summit in Durban,  South Africa , in December, “must get
the global climate fund up and running so that people can
protect themselves from the impacts of climate change and are
better equipped to grow the food they need,” Oxfam said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  