-- 
France Telecom CEO Plans Asset Sales on Domestic Competition

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-31T13:34:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/france-telecom-targets-2013-ebitda-above-2011-level.html
France Telecom SA (FTE)  Chief Executive
Officer Stephane Richard today laid out plans to explore the
sale of European assets, partner with firms like Google Inc. on
network costs and target low- and high-end consumers to fight
mounting domestic competition.  The company is likely to sell a European asset worth more
than 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) in the next 12 months as
part of a review of its operations outside France, Richard said
at the company’s investor day in Paris. It’s also hopeful deals
can be reached with companies such as Google and Apple Inc. to
manage the costs of building ever-faster networks, he said.  Richard is looking to emerging markets, new technologies,
and possible asset sales to revitalize France Telecom ahead of
the entry of a fourth mobile operator,  Iliad SA (ILD) , in the French
market next year. Paris-based France Telecom may sell its
minority stakes in operators in Austria and Portugal, the CEO
said last week.  “The coming months in the French market are going to be
tough,” Richard said today. To match what’s expected to be
aggressive competition from Iliad for price-conscious consumers,
France Telecom will expand its offerings at the low end of the
mobile market, domestic business head Delphine Ernotte said.  France Telecom earlier today unveiled a series of financial
targets for a return to overall growth within five years,
including shaving more than 3 billion euros from its cost base
by 2015. It’s also planning about 18.5 billion euros of capital
expenditure for 2011 to 2013, much of it devoted to ultra-fast
fourth-generation wireless and fiber-optic networks in France.  ‘Ambitious’ Targets  The goals set out today are “ambitious” and more
aggressive than expected given the telecommunications sector’s
challenges in  Europe , Thomas Friedrich, an analyst at UniCredit
in Munich, wrote in a note. The French market, which accounted
for about half of company revenue last year, will be the key
determinant of the plan’s success, he said.  The company will continue hunting for emerging-market
acquisitions following deals in  Morocco ,  Iraq , and  Egypt ,
Richard said today. The CEO, 49, last year unveiled a plan to
double emerging-market revenue by 2015, largely through
acquisitions focused on  Africa  and the  Middle East .  Richard has led a group of European telecommunications
executives who have charged that Google, Apple, and Facebook
Inc. are getting a free ride on telecommunications networks by
not contributing directly to maintenance and expansion.  France 
Telecom and other operators are confident a deal can be struck
that focuses on assistance with more efficient network
technology, Executive Vice President Pierre Louette said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.netvroot @bloomberg.net. 