-- 
Gates to Stress U.S. Military Staying Power in Asia

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-05-31T19:19:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/gates-to-display-u-s-military-staying-power-on-final-asia-trip.html
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , on
his last official trip to  Asia , aims to underscore the region’s
prominent place on the U.S. agenda and to urge  China  to
strengthen ties regardless of disagreements.  Gates, who retires from office next month, left Washington
today and will attend an Asia security forum in Singapore, where
he will also hold talks with Japanese, Chinese, Australian and
other counterparts.  He’ll detail measures by the  Pentagon  to reinforce American
staying power in the region, U.S. defense officials said,
briefing reporters on condition of anonymity. The defense chief
will try to show that crises in the  Middle East  and North Africa
aren’t distracting the Obama administration from Asia, the
official said.  Gates has “been pretty resolute in the way that he has
reiterated that the  United States  is an inherent Asia-Pacific
power,” said Tim Huxley, director for defense and military
analysis at the  International Institute for Strategic Studies ,
which is hosting the Shangri-La Dialogue in Singapore later this
week. Huxley credits Gates with saying “things that have been
important for the U.S. to say, at a time when the regional
distribution of power is clearly in a state of flux.”  China is sending to the forum its highest-level official
ever, Defense Minister Liang Guanglie. That gives Gates another
opening, since the two met in January in Beijing, to reinforce
the need for stable, reliable and continuous military relations
between the U.Sl and China, the U.S. defense officials said.  ‘Growing Concern’  Gates is the latest of a stream of U.S. officials visiting
Asia as the Obama administration comes to grips with China’s
rise. The Chinese military’s modernization, which the U.S. sees
as a potential threat, and territorial disputes between China
and its neighbors around the  South China Sea , have raised
tensions.  Vietnam  and the  Philippines  are pushing oil and gas
exploration in areas of the South China Sea claimed by China,
risking clashes in one of the world’s busiest shipping
corridors.  Leaders in Beijing, who say American leaders must
acknowledge their “core interests” in Asia, often suspend ties
over disagreements such as U.S. arms sales to  Taiwan  or
overtures to the exiled Tibetan leader the Dalai Lama.  Taiwan Arms  Members of Congress are advocating more weapons for Taiwan,
especially long-requested F-16 C/D fighter jets, as China
strengthens its forces across the Taiwan Strait.  U.S. Senator Robert Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat, and 45
other members from both parties wrote Obama on May 26 urging him
to expedite the sale of 66 of the aircraft made by  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  of Bethesda, Maryland  “Beijing presently has more than 1,400 missiles aimed at
Taiwan, and China is in the process of deploying next generation
Chinese and Russian manufactured ships, fighter aircraft, and
submarines,” the senators wrote, adding that experts “have
raised concerns that Taiwan is losing the qualitative advantage
in defensive arms that has long served as its primary military
deterrent against China.”  While Chinese officials agreed in Washington earlier this
month to conduct joint disaster relief and counter-piracy
drills, they also reiterated their irritation at U.S. weapons
sales to Taiwan, which China considers a renegade province.  “The Chinese are being very forward-leaning now in a
couple of areas and very tough in a couple of others,” said
Bonnie Glaser, a China specialist at the  Center for Strategic
and International Studies  in  Washington .  ‘Totally Misunderstood’  Retired Admiral Bill Owens, a former vice chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff who’s lived in Beijing and  Hong Kong  for
the past five years, said the U.S. should stop arms transfers to
Taiwan at least while China shows more peaceful behavior.  China’s position on the South China Sea may be a less
alarming than it seems, Owens said in a phone interview last
week. “We may have totally misunderstood China’s statements,”
he said. “It’s not a first-level national interest in the same
sense that Taiwan or Tibet could be.”  Gates plans to follow up on his request to Chinese
President  Hu Jintao  in January to begin formal talks that bring
civilian and military officials on both sides together to
discuss nuclear power, space, cyberspace and missile defense,
the defense officials said.  U.S. officials have raised questions about whether civilian
Chinese leaders were either aware or had endorsed antagonistic
moves, such as a test flight during Gates’s Beijing visit in
January of a new fighter jet that may have stealth capabilities.  Japan  Bases  Throughout the region, U.S. allies and security partners
have been looking for signs of its commitment, Huxley said. That
includes force levels, exercises, naval visits and in some cases
military assistance, arms sales and technology transfer.  When meeting with his Japanese counterpart in  Singapore ,
Gates will focus on lessons learned from the joint efforts in
the aftermath of Japan’s earthquake, tsunami and resulting
nuclear crisis this year, and on a planned move of some U.S.
Marines on Okinawa, partly to  Guam  and others to a less-populous
location on the island, one of the U.S. officials said.  Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Carl Levin, a
Michigan Democrat, joined Senators  John McCain  of  Arizona , the
panel’s senior Republican, and Jim Webb, a Virginia Democrat and
the chairman of the personnel subcommittee, in urging changes to
the basing agreement with Japan, signed in 2006.  The agreements involved were carefully crafted over years,
one of the U.S. defense officials said. The U.S. has balked at
Japan’s own requests for changes in recent years. The Senators’
letter doesn’t change the administration’s approach.  On his way to Singapore, Gates will stop in  Hawaii , the
headquarters of the U.S. military’s Pacific Command. After
Singapore, he will attend a North Atlantic Treaty Organization
defense ministers meeting in Brussels next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  