-- 
Germany Calls Iran’s Blocking of Merkel Flight ‘Unacceptable’

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-05-31T11:01:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/germany-calls-iran-s-blocking-of-merkel-flight-unacceptable-.html
The German government called Iran’s
decision to block Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s plane from entering
Iranian airspace en route to India “completely unacceptable”
and summoned the country’s ambassador in Berlin.  Merkel’s plane, a new Airbus A340 with a full delegation,
was forced to circle over Turkish territory for about two hours
early today after Iran initially refused to let it enter the
country. There was no explanation as to why the government in
Tehran blocked entry after it had previously granted overflight
permission, the German government said.  “This is a lack of respect toward Germany that we will not
accept,” Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said in an e-mailed
statement. The ministry summoned the Iranian ambassador in
Berlin, Ali Reza Sheikh Attar, to deliver Germany’s complaint
with “great clarity.”  Merkel and her delegation eventually made their way over
Iran to India, where the chancellor is meeting with Indian Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh , after Germany and Iran undertook
“intensive diplomatic intervention,” the German government
said. Merkel and executives from companies such as  Siemens AG (SIE) 
and  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  are in India seeking to boost trade.  Germany has long joined the permanent members of the United
Nations Security Council -- the U.S., the U.K., France, Russia
and China -- in calling on Iran to halt uranium enrichment. Iran
has said its nuclear program is for peaceful energy use.  The aircraft was headed toward the border when the Iranian
government said it didn’t have permission to fly over,  Deutsche
Presse-Agentur  reported. The Turkish government mediated in the
diplomatic back-and-forth, DPA said.  “I’ve never experienced anything like that,” DPA quoted
Merkel as saying. “The pilots haven’t, either.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 