-- 
Unemployment Declines in May as Exports Boom Powers ‘Labor Market Party’

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-05-31T08:44:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/german-unemployment-shrinks-less-than-forecast-rate-at-lowest-since-1991.html
German unemployment fell in May for a
23rd straight month as export-driven growth and increased
spending by businesses and consumers extended a jobs boom.  The number of people out of work dropped a seasonally
adjusted 8,000 to 2.97 million, the Nuremberg-based Federal
Labor Agency said today. Economists forecast a drop of 30,000,
according to the median forecast of 30 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. The jobless rate declined to 7 percent, the lowest
since records for a reunified  Germany  began in 1991.  Declining unemployment in  Europe ’s biggest economy
underscores German resilience in the face of a clampdown on
budget deficits by euro-area governments buffeted by the debt
crisis and rising fuel prices that crimp household spending.
Retail sales edged up in April after declining in March, the
Federal Statistics Office said today.  “The labour market party continues,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels. “Even if the
strong dynamics of new vacancies and employment expectations is
currently slowing down somewhat, unemployment is bound to drop
further.”  The euro was up 0.95 percent to $1.4413 as of 10:30 a.m. in
Berlin.  Germany and neighboring France are driving euro-area growth
even as countries such as  Greece , that were forced to call for
international bailouts, grapple with their debt burden.  BMW, Mini  The German economy may grow more than 3 percent for a
second year in 2011 as it sustains a “robust” recovery, the
 International Monetary Fund  said on May 17. German business
confidence unexpectedly held steady this past month on the back
of company investment and a rebound in construction. Economists
had forecast a decline.  German carmakers are hiring because of booming demand in
 China  for high-end vehicles. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG Chief
Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said on May 12 the Munich-
based company will hire about 2,000 workers over the course of
the year, more than half of them in Germany, “in light of
strong global demand for BMW, Mini and Rolls-Royce brand
vehicles.”  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering company, said May
4 that profit will rise at least 75 percent this year as
customers buy more industrial equipment.  Even so, signs are emerging that Germany’s labor market may
be losing steam, said Timo Klein, an economist at Global Insight
Inc. in Frankfurt.  ‘A Cooling’  “It’s definitely looking better now than it was a half
year ago,” Klein said in an interview. “But if you look at the
current figures, in terms of economic activity, the indications
are that we’re already seeing a bit of a cooling.”  The pace of Germany’s economic growth will probably slow by
mid-year after jumping 1.5 percent in the first quarter, the
 Finance Ministry  said May 20.  German output “was clearly lifted during the reporting
period by backloading and catching-up effects,” the Frankfurt-
based Bundesbank said the same day.  With retail sales increasing 0.6 percent in April from
March, when they fell 2.7 percent, “the German consumer is
hesitantly driving growth and picking up the economic relay
baton from trade and investment,” said Christian Schulz, an
economist at Joh. Berenberg Gossler & Co. in  London .  OECD Comparisons  According to  comparable  data from the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, Germany’s jobless rate was
6.3 percent in March while the average for the 17 euro nations
was 9.9 percent.  France , the second-largest euro-area economy,
had 9.5 percent unemployment, the U.S. 8.8 percent and Spain
20.7 percent.  Even so, joblessness at a 19-year low and buoyant economic
growth has yet to translate into support for  Chancellor Angela Merkel , whose Christian Democratic bloc dropped to match its
year low of 30 percent in a Forsa poll for Stern magazine today.  Merkel’s coalition with the Free Democrats had 34 percent
support compared with 50 percent for the opposition Social
Democratic Party and Greens, who engineered a phase-out of
nuclear power that Merkel emulated yesterday, the poll showed.
Forsa polled 2,501 voters on May 23-27. The margin of error was
as much as 2.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  