-- 
Germany’s E.Coli Death Toll Rises to 10 as Officials Seek to Confirm Sourc

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-05-31T21:29:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/german-death-toll-rises-from-e-coli-outbreak-source-sought-2-.html
The death toll from  Germany ’s
largest-ever E. coli outbreak rose as agricultural authorities
said it still isn’t clear that the contamination originated in
Spain.  The spread of E. coli has killed nine people in Germany and
one in Sweden, the first fatality outside Germany linked to the
infections, according to a  statement  released today by the
European Commission. Another 1,169 in Germany and 41 people in
Sweden have been sickened, the commission said.  Cucumbers from Spain tested in Hamburg, where 569 people
are being treated for the illness, “definitely” have a
disease-causing form of E. coli bacteria on the surface,
officials said today. Still, they can’t find proof that the
Hamburg outbreak is related to those cucumbers and are
continuing to investigate.  “Clear results” are needed from a European Union
investigation into the source of the E. coli contamination to
restore  consumer confidence , EU Agriculture Commissioner Dacian
Ciolos said. Spanish fruit and vegetable exporters are losing as
much as 200 million euros ($288 million) a week in sales as
consumers avoid the country’s products, according to a spokesman
for  Fepex , which represents producers in Spain.  “It’s important that we should produce the results of the
ongoing analysis as soon as possible,” Ciolos said today at a
Brussels news conference. “We have to remain circumspect and
not come out with suppositions without any proper basis. If
we’re going to restore consumer confidence we have to provide
clear results of what the source of the contamination is.”  Initial Results  Tests by Hamburg health authorities on the Spanish
cucumbers didn’t find the strain of E. coli responsible for the
outbreak although the cucumbers did test positive for E. coli,
according to the Commission statement.  Deutsche Presse Agentur said 15 people have died in
Germany, without citing anyone.  No E. coli has yet been found in  Spain , Pia Ahrenkilde- Hansen, a spokeswoman for the European Commission, said today.  E. coli is spread through contaminated food and water or
contact with animals, and can produce toxins that cause human
disease. Cattle and other ruminants can be healthy carriers of
the bacterium, which can be spread through fecal contamination,
according to the  European Centre for Disease Prevention and
Control . Infection can lead to hemolytic uremic syndrome, or
HUS, a potentially fatal type of kidney damage.  Suspicion initially focused on Spain after Hamburg’s
Institute for Hygiene and Health said last week it detected the
bacterium in probes of cucumbers imported from Spain.  Seeking the Source  “Our hope, to find the source of the difficult
complications regarding HUS syndrome, has not been fulfilled
with these first tests,” Cornelia Prufer-Storcks, the Hamburg
senator for health, said in a statement.  Spanish cucumbers didn’t cause the outbreak, Spanish
Environment Minister Rosa Aguilar said. “Germany has confirmed
that the Spanish cucumbers are not the source,” she said in
comments broadcast by state television RTVE from Debrecen,
 Hungary , where she was attending a meeting of European
counterparts.  While contamination happens in the field, the bacteria can
be carried on trucks to a warehouse and contaminate other
produce on a processing line,  Bruce Hirsch , attending physician
for infectious diseases at North Shore University Hospital in
Manhasset,  New York , said in an interview today.  ‘Long Chain’  “The food processing chain is a long chain and there is
potential for contamination all along the chain,” Hirsch said.
“It’s a little premature to say it’s due to the contamination
of Spanish fields.”  Spanish authorities suspended the activities of two
distributors in the provinces of Almeria and Malaga that are
thought to have shipped the produce, the European Commission
said May 27.  Cases of infection by the bacterium have occurred in
Germany,  Sweden ,  Denmark , the U.K., the Netherlands and  Austria ,
according to the ECDC. Most involve people who are from, or
traveled to, northern Germany, including Hamburg, northern Lower
Saxony and Schleswig-Holstein, the Stockholm-based agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 