-- 
Goffer Trial Prosecutors Rest as Kimelman Distances Himself From Trades

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-05-31T18:10:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/goffer-prosecutors-rest-as-kimelman-distances-self-from-trades-at-galleon.html
Prosecutors rested their insider-
trading case against ex-Galleon Group LLC trader  Zvi Goffer , who
offered no evidence on his own behalf, while a lawyer for one of
Goffer’s accused accomplices, Michael Kimelman, tried to show
his client didn’t trade on illegal tips.  Less than two weeks after opening its case against Goffer,
his brother Emanuel and Kimelman, federal prosecutors today told
the judge and jury in  Manhattan  federal court that they had no
other evidence to present. A lawyer for Zvi Goffer then rested
his case without presenting evidence, while Kimelman’s lawyer,
 Michael Sommer , recalled a government witness for further
testimony.  The witness,  Federal Bureau of Investigation  agent Jan
Trigg, testified under questioning from Sommer that Kimelman
didn’t use a prepaid cell phone, as others in the scheme had
done, and that Kimelman worked at a different firm than Zvi
Goffer in 2007. She testified that the FBI never recorded the
two sharing illegal information and that Zvi Goffer didn’t
telephone Kimelman after he got a tip from another trader.  “Did he ever call Mr. Kimelman at all for the balance of
that day?” Sommer asked, referring to Zvi Goffer.  “He does not appear to call him,” Trigg testified as she
reviewed records.  The three men are accused of trading on illegal tips that
came from attorneys then working at the Ropes & Gray LLP law
firm. The tips were about transactions involving 3Com Corp. and
other stocks, according to prosecutors.  Raj Rajaratnam   Goffer’s ex-boss, Raj Rajaratnam, was found guilty May 11
of insider trading. He faces as long as 19 1/2 years in prison
when he’s sentenced on July 29. Prosecutors previously said that
Goffer passed inside information to another Galleon trader to
impress the hedge fund’s managers.  Summations in the Goffer case may begin as early as
tomorrow. Emanuel Goffer’s defense team will begin presenting
evidence this afternoon. Prosecutors may put on a rebuttal case.  In questioning Trigg, Sommer sought to show that Kimelman
didn’t trade in 3Com at the same time as others who are accused
of insider trading or have pleaded guilty to doing so. Kimelman
sold shares of 3Com on Sept. 28, 2007, about 90 minutes before
the maker of computer-networking equipment announced that it
would be acquired by Bain Capital LLC, Trigg testified after
being shown records by the defense.  “He put in an order to sell, yes,” Trigg said as Sommer
asked questions aiming to show that such a stock sale would be
inconsistent with  insider trading .  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  