-- 
Goldman Sachs May Free Capital From Investing Arm, Analyst Says

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-05-31T15:17:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/goldman-sachs-may-free-capital-from-investing-arm-analyst-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, may boost return on equity by
taking capital from the businesses that invest the firm’s own
money, according to an analyst at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Kian Abouhossein raised his recommendation on Goldman Sachs
stock to “overweight” from “neutral” because he thinks the
company can release $28 billion of capital from the investing
and lending segment, he said today in a note to investors. The
changes won’t take place immediately, said London-based
Abouhossein, who also lowered his estimate for 2011 earnings per
share to $12.80 from $13.50.  Goldman Sachs, the world’s most profitable securities firm
before converting to a bank during the 2008 financial crisis, is
grappling with new rules that restrict the company’s ability to
make investments on its own behalf. Investing and lending, the
segment that includes the firm’s proprietary trades and its
principal investments in companies and other assets, contributed
30 percent of pretax profit last year.  “What we believe is there’s a transformation of the
business from a client-plus-investing business to a client
business and that will allow the group to release quite a bit of
capital,” Abouhossein said in a telephone interview. “It will
not happen this year clearly” as the New York-based firm waits
to see how regulations are implemented, he said.  Abouhossein estimates that after new regulations kick in,
Goldman Sachs’s investing businesses will be using $30 billion
of capital. About $27 billion of that can be returned to
shareholders, shrinking Goldman Sachs’s business and making it
possible to generate 16 percent annual return on equity, an
increase from an estimated 12 percent to 13 percent, he said.  Compensation Expenses  Goldman Sachs’s shares rose $2.53, or 1.8 percent, to
$141.19 at 10:20 a.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite
trading and have dropped 16 percent this year. The company had
$119.63 of tangible book value per common share at the end of
March, according to the firm’s most recent quarterly filing.  Goldman Sachs can further enhance profit by paying a
smaller percentage of revenue as compensation, Abouhossein
wrote. Goldman Sachs has already cut its so-called compensation
ratio to about 40 percent of revenue from an average of 47
percent in the years 1999 to 2008, Abouhossein said.  “It’s very highly likely that comp ratios will further
decline,” he said. “Goldman can cut more than others on the
comp ratio and still be the most attractive” employer for
bankers and traders, he added.  Concerns about Goldman Sachs’s potential legal liabilities
in the wake of the financial crisis and a U.S. Senate
subcommittee report are already discounted by the stock price
and don’t pose significant further risk, Abouhossein wrote.
Goldman Sachs, which Abouhossein said operates as “a machine,”
can withstand any management changes, he said.  Buying Opportunity  “We believe the market is again over-reacting to the
negative news flow,” he said. “In our view, the price weakness
is a buying opportunity.”  Abouhossein’s note said that he had attended a “group
meeting” with Michael S. Sherwood, Goldman Sachs’s London-based
vice chairman, who serves as co-chief executive officer of the
firm’s business in  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa .
Abouhossein didn’t attribute any of the views in his note to
Sherwood and said in the telephone interview that all of his
estimates and opinions on the firm’s future were his own.  Stephen Cohen , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New York,
declined to comment on Abouhossein’s note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 