-- 
Goldman Sachs Says Korean Mergers May Expand 27% as Companies Shop Abroad

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-05-31T15:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/goldman-says-korea-takeovers-to-expand-27-on-overseas-purchases.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , ranked
first globally in advising on mergers, said takeovers involving
South Korean companies may climb by as much as 27 percent on
government stake sales and local firms buying overseas assets.  Annual deal volumes may expand to $60 billion to $70
billion over the next three to four years, John Kim, Goldman
Sachs’s head of South Korea investment banking and co-country
head, said in an interview in Seoul on May 30. The Asian nation
had about $55 billion in such transactions last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Local companies ambitious to expand beyond the domestic
market and those seeking access to resources are stepping up
bids for overseas assets, Kim said. The divesting of stakes in
firms that were bailed out following the 1997-98 Asian financial
crisis has also helped fuel the most takeovers in the first five
months since the same period in 2008, the data show.  “More Korean companies are teaming up with private equity
funds and other partners to buy overseas assets, a trend not
many would have imagined five years ago,” Kim, 44, said.
“Korean buyers have become much more sophisticated about going
abroad.”  Goldman Sachs vaulted to No. 2 among banks involved in
mergers linked to Korean companies, from No. 10 last year, after
advising buyers of a combined 4.96 trillion won ($4.6 billion)
of stakes in Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. in the
nation’s largest deal this year. Local rival  Korea Development
Bank  is ranked first and Seoul-based Woori Investment &
Securities Co. is No. 3, data show.  The New York-based firm also advised a group including
 Posco (005490) , the world’s third-biggest steelmaker, on buying a stake
in a Brazilian rare-metal producer.  Mid-Sized Clients  The Wall Street firm, which has invested more than $1.5
billion in the nation since 1999, established a representative
office in Seoul in 1992 and made it into a branch in 1998,
according to the company. It got a local banking branch license
in June 2006, and now employs about 180 people in Seoul at the
bank, securities unit and an asset management service.  Kim, who joined the New York-based firm in 2000 after
stints at Merrill Lynch & Co.,  Salomon Smith Barney  and  Credit
Suisse First Boston , said Goldman Sachs would consider extending
services to mid-sized Korean companies if they become more
active in overseas acquisitions.  Sales of companies such as Woori Finance Holdings Co. and
 Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  are likely to dominate domestic
takeovers, according to Kim. The Financial Services Commission
in May revived a plan to divest the government’s 57 percent
holding, worth 6.4 trillion won based on yesterday’s closing
price, in Woori.  ‘Sheer Size’  Shareholders of Hynix, the chipmaker that was bailed out by
creditors after the Asian crisis, held meetings in May to resume
attempts to sell their stakes.  “The sheer size of large deals, like the sale of Hynix
Semiconductor, will eclipse smaller transactions in terms of
prominence, but the number of overseas acquisitions by South
Korean companies will continue to grow,” Kim said.  South Korean companies purchased $13.9 billion worth of
overseas assets last year, 35 percent more than a year earlier,
led by state-run Korea National Oil Corp.’s $2.8 billion
acquisition of U.K.-based Dana Petroleum Plc, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  This year, local companies have announced $4.57 billion of
outbound transactions, the data show.  Overseas Acquisitions  The biggest is the bid by a group led by Seoul-based
sportswear company  Fila Korea Ltd. (081660)  to buy U.S.-based Acushnet
Co., the maker of Titleist golf balls and clubs, from  Fortune
Brands Inc. (FO)  for $1.23 billion in cash. The National Pension
Service, Mirae Private Equity and KDB Financial Group Inc. were
among buyers.  More Korean companies may choose to bid for targets abroad
as part of a consortium to reduce the financial burden or gain
access to commodities or energy supplies without owning a
majority stake, Kim said.  “Korean firms making outbound acquisitions will be a
notable trend,” Kim said. “Armed with past experiences and the
financial firepower, they have become more confident and capable
of doing such deals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in  Seoul  at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  