-- 
Greece Will Probably Get EU Aid to Avoid Default, Fitch Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-05-31T10:57:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/greece-will-probably-get-eu-aid-to-avoid-default-fitch-says.html
Greece  will probably get the bailout
loans needed to avoid becoming the first euro country to
default,  Fitch Ratings  said.  While filling a financing hole of about 30 billion euros
($43 billion) next year, the European Union also probably won’t
force Greece to extend maturities, a step opposed by the
 European Central Bank , according to today’s Fitch note.  Greece will probably remain shut out of financial markets
beyond the scheduled end of the 110 billion-euro bailout in May
2013, Fitch said in a report on its May 20 decision to cut
Greece’s credit rating to three levels to B+.  “Incorporated into the B+ rating is Fitch’s expectation
that substantial new money will be forthcoming for Greece from
the EU and the IMF and that Greek sovereign bonds will not be
subject to a “soft restructuring” or “re-profiling” that
would trigger a “ credit event ” and consequently a default
rating from the agency,” Fitch said.  Under the terms of the rescue package, Greece was due to
sell about 30 billion euros of bonds next year. With its 10-year
bonds yielding 16.4 percent, more than twice the level at the
time of the bailout, the EU has indicated Greece will need more
aid. The IMF has indicated it will withhold its one-third share
of the bailout payments until Greece’s financing is clear.  “Without renewed  market access , new money from official
creditors will be required to address the fiscal funding
shortfalls that are set to reappear in 2012,” Fitch said.
“Additional financial support for Greece would only be credible
in providing a path to solvency if it were fully funded beyond
the end of the current 110 billion-euro program in 2013.”  ECB Clash  EU and ECB officials remain divided over how to aid Greece,
with some European leaders calling for new loans and a debt
“re-profiling” -- convincing bondholders to voluntarily accept
an extension of maturities. ECB officials have said “re-
profiling” is tantamount to default and would prompt the
Frankfurt-based central bank to refuse to accept Greek bonds as
collateral in their emergency funding operations, wiping out the
capital of the Greek banking system, the biggest holder of the
country’s bonds.  The euro rose to a three-week high against the dollar on
optimism officials will agree on further Greek aid, trading at
$1.4399 at 12:35 p.m. in Brussels, up 0.8 percent on the day.  EU leaders will decide on additional aid for Greece by the
end of June and have ruled out a “total restructuring” of the
nation’s debt, said  Jean-Claude Juncker , head of the group of
euro-area finance ministers.  Inspectors from the EU, the  International Monetary Fund  and
the European Central Bank are set to wrap up a review of
Greece’s progress in meeting the bailout terms in coming days.
The EU will then formulate its plan for further aid to Greece.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at  abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  