-- 
Greece Needs to Do More if Program Aims Not Met, Germany Says

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-05-31T11:27:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/greece-needs-to-do-more-if-program-aims-not-met-germany-says.html
The Greek government must step up its
efforts to get public finances under control if a report due
later this week shows  Greece  failed to comply with the terms of
an international aid program, Germany’s Finance Ministry said.  If it turns out as expected that Greece is not fulfilling
the program conditions, euro-region countries must see what
steps Greece can undertake to get back on track on top of what
it’s doing already, a German Finance Ministry spokesman said
today, speaking on customary condition of anonymity.  The report by the European Commission, the  International
Monetary Fund  and the  European Central Bank  will be published on
June 3 at the earliest, the spokesman said. Any further
conclusions can only be drawn after that, he said.  The ministry comments reiterate a position first outlined
by Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  on April 14, showing that
Germany’s stance on Greek aid is unchanged. Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  has presented a fifth round of budget cuts in
a bid to access the fifth installment of Greece’s 110 billion-
euro rescue ($158 billion).  German 10-year  government bonds  fell for the first day in
five amid speculation that European officials will approve
additional aid for Greece as part of efforts to counter the
region’s debt crisis. The euro rose to a two-week high against
the dollar after the Wall Street Journal reported that Germany
may drop its push for a rescheduling of Greek debt as a
precondition for a new aid package.  Talks with the Greek government are taking place about a
voluntary contribution of private creditors to a solution of
Greece’s debt problems, Reuters cited Schaeuble as saying in
Hanover yesterday. The discussions also involve more
privatizations, bigger efforts by Greece to reduce the deficit
as well as the provision of economic stimulus, Schaeuble said.  Creditors to Greece “should think about whether they’re in
a position to offer new loan conditions” if the Greek
government agrees to boost its privatization program, Michael Meister, the finance policy spokesman in parliament for
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic Union, said in
an interview last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg.net  