-- 
Greek Loans Increase May Cost Less Than Restructuring, CreditSights Says

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-05-31T10:56:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/greek-loans-increase-may-cost-less-than-restructuring-creditsights-says.html
Tackling the Greek crisis may be
better left until 2013 because forcing losses on bondholders
this year may cost more than extending new loans, according to
analysts at CreditSights Inc.  Greece  forecasts its  budget deficit  between now and 2013
will be 42 billion euros ($60 billion), a gap creditors aren’t
likely to fund if they’ve just taken losses in a restructuring,
according to a report by analysts led by  David Watts  in London.
There’s also the risk that a restructuring may create contagion
for Spain and “potentially even  Italy ,” they wrote.  “There are reasons to prefer tackling the problem in 2013
rather than earlier,” Watts said in an interview. “There’s a
risk that if Greek private-sector creditors are forced to accept
losses in 2011, the cost to European taxpayers between now and
then could be greater than the cost of expanding the Greek
lending facility.”  Inspectors from the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund  are wrapping up a review of Greece’s progress
before deciding on further aid, including the release of 25.5
billion euros. The country has 26 billion euros of debt maturing
this year, of which 11 billion euros is in bills that it will
need to roll over to fund its budget deficit, CreditSights said.  “A liquidity crisis can happen really, really quickly,
especially if the bill market gets scared,” Watts said. “I
can’t see how it wouldn’t if Greece doesn’t get the additional
funding.”  Spanish Sustainability  The EU is also unlikely to accept the restructuring of
Greek debt because if losses are inflicted on bondholders, those
who doubt the sustainability of Spanish debt “may conclude that
avoiding Spanish bond auctions is the only sensible course of
action,” the analysts wrote.  While  Spain ’s ratio of debt to economic output is forecast
to be 67 percent this year, its budget deficit is the result of
an  unemployment rate  in excess of 20 percent.  “Investors don’t know for certain that Spain’s situation
is sustainable,” the analysts wrote. “If Spain does prove to
be unsustainable and the EU has demonstrated a track record of
inflicting losses on creditors, then it would be understandable
if investors hesitate about buying any new debt.”  If the EU acts this year, it is likely to seek a voluntary
“re-profiling” of bank-held debt, according to New York-based
CreditSights. Greece may also introduce a so-called collective
action clause into its debt, allowing a set majority of
bondholders to agree a restructuring that’s binding on all
holders. That might lay the foundation for buybacks using EU
funds by signaling a restructuring is coming, pushing down bond
prices, according to CreditSights.  An eventual restructuring is likely to involve a range of
options, allowing banks to duck losses and encouraging
bondholders to take part. Non-bank investors may be offered
zero-coupon bonds backed by the European Financial Stability
Facility, to reduce Greece’s funding costs and extend its
maturities, according to CreditSights.  Exchanging into 15-year zero-coupon bonds with the top
ratings with a current price of 60 euros and a payoff of 100 at
maturity would give holders a yield of close to 3.5 percent,
similar to 15-year swap rates, the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in  London  at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  