-- 
Indian GDP Growth Slows to 7.8%; Pressure for Interest Rate Rises Remains

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-05-31T10:57:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/indian-gdp-growth-slows-to-7-8-pressure-for-interest-rate-rises-remains.html
India ’s economy grew at the slowest
pace in five quarters as manufacturing and services cooled, a
moderation that has yet to curb pressure for more increases in
 interest rates  to damp inflation.  Gross domestic product rose 7.8 percent in the three months
ended March 31 from a year earlier, after a revised 8.3 percent
gain in the previous quarter, the  Central Statistical Office 
said in a statement in New Delhi today. That’s the slowest pace
in five quarters. The median of 22 predictions in a Bloomberg
News survey was for an 8.1 percent advance.  India’s inflation rate is the fastest after Russia among
major emerging economies, and the  Reserve Bank of India  this
month signaled further tightening as it raised rates for the
ninth time since March 2010. The  International Monetary Fund ,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG project
lower expansion in India this year.  “The central bank will need to slow growth further so that
inflation can be brought under control,” said Shubhada Rao,
chief economist at Mumbai-based Yes Bank Ltd. “The high level
of inflation is the biggest risk to the economy.”  She expects the central bank to raise rates by half a
percentage point by the end of September.  Stocks, Rupee  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index rose 1.5
percent at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai after paring gains to
0.5 percent immediately after the report. The rupee was little
changed at 45.06 per dollar, easing from a high of 44.9675. The
yield on the 7.8 percent note due April 2021 fell three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.4 percent.  Reserve Bank  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao increased the
repurchase rate by half a percentage point to 7.25 percent on
May 3, the biggest move since July 2008, and indicated he is
ready to step up the battle against inflation even at the risk
of restraining growth. While inflation slowed to 8.66 percent in
April from 9.02 percent in March, the central bank said the rate
probably won’t decline much further until September.  Higher borrowing costs will slow India’s economic expansion
and help ease inflation to 6 percent “with an upward bias” by
March 31, 2012, Subbarao said this month.  India’s economy  may
expand “around 8 percent” in the year through March, he said.
It grew 8.5 percent in the previous 12 months.  Manufacturing Slows  Manufacturing rose 5.5 percent in the three months through
March from a year earlier, compared with a 6 percent gain in the
previous quarter, today’s report showed. Finance and insurance
services grew 9 percent after a 10.8 percent jump in the
previous quarter. Farm output rose 7.5 percent while mining
advanced 1.7 percent, according to the report.  In  China , the central bank has increased rates four times
since mid-October. The Bank of  Korea  held off from boosting
borrowing costs for two months after increases of a quarter
point each in January and March.  Russia ’s central bank yesterday unexpectedly lifted its
overnight deposit rate while leaving the benchmark refinancing
and repo rates unchanged as it sought to curb inflation without
hurting growth. Consumer prices in the nation rose 9.6 percent
in April.  “The RBI can’t afford to stop monetary tightening,”
 Dharmakirti Joshi , a Mumbai-based economist at Crisil Ltd., the
local unit of  Standard & Poor’s , said before the report.
“Growth may slow but inflation pressures persist because of
higher fuel prices.”  Fuel Prices  State-run refiner Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest,
raised gasoline prices by 5 rupees (11 cents) a liter to 63.37
rupees in New Delhi on May 15, the biggest increase since June
2008, as crude prices surged.  Opposition parties including the  Bharatiya Janata Party  on
May 16 organized protests in the country against the move.
Prices gains threaten to erode purchasing power in a nation
where the  World Bank  estimates almost three-quarters of the
people live on less than $2 a day.  India may increase diesel prices when a panel of ministers
meets on June 9, an official of the oil ministry said May 26,
asking not to be identified before a public announcement.  “Surging rates and costlier fuel prices are a double
whammy on our sales,” Ajay Seth, New Delhi-based chief
financial officer at  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the nation’s
biggest carmaker, said before the report. “The silver lining is
incomes are growing and that’s supporting demand.”  Consumer Demand  India’s economic expansion is still the quickest after
China among major economies, bolstered by higher earnings among
the nation’s 1.2 billion people.  Salaries in India in 2011 will likely rise the most in the
Asia-Pacific region, a survey by Aon Hewitt LLC showed March 8.
 Government spending  under the National Rural Employment
Guarantee Act of 2005 has surged almost fourfold to 399 billion
rupees, propping up demand in the countryside.  India was second after China in a ranking of 22 emerging
Asian economies most likely to maintain steady and rapid growth
over the next five years, according to the Bloomberg Economic
Momentum Index for Developing  Asia .  Still, consumer demand in India may wane under the impact
of higher rates.  Sales at Maruti Suzuki rose 4.4 percent in April, the least
in 28 months, the company said May 2. Home-sale registrations in
Mumbai fell 30 percent in April from a year earlier, dropping to
a 23-month low, according to a May 17 report by brokerage
Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt.  Asia’s third-largest economy may grow 8.2 percent in 2011
from 10.4 percent in the prior 12 months, the IMF said April 28.
Goldman Sachs cut its estimate for gross domestic product
expansion in India to 7.8 percent from 8.7 percent for the
fiscal year ending March 31, 2012, while Credit Suisse lowered
it to 7.5 percent from 7.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  