-- 
Linking Disease Markers to Medical Condition Often Exaggerated, Study Says

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-05-31T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/linking-disease-markers-to-medical-condition-often-exaggerated-study-says.html
Studies that link genes and other
biological markers to medical conditions such as  heart disease 
or  colon cancer  may exaggerate the ties, casting doubt on some
decisions doctors make for their patients, researchers said.  An analysis of 35 of the most widely cited medical papers
on  biomarker  discovery showed that most of the findings didn’t
hold up in larger studies, according to a review in today’s
 Journal of the American Medical Association . Findings not
supported in larger analyses included those linking the  BRCA1 
breast tumor gene to colon cancer, and a measure of inflammation
called  c-reactive protein  to heart disease.  Biomarkers like genes and blood proteins may help doctors
determine who is at risk for disease, who is likely to respond
to treatment and what course a disease might take. As biomarker
findings are cited by other researchers in their papers, the
information gets widely disseminated, even if untested in larger
studies. As a result, doctors may be making decisions based on
inaccurate information, said study author  John Ioannidis .  “Single studies can be highly misleading,” said
Ioannidis, a professor of medicine and health research and
policy at Stanford University School of Medicine near  Palo Alto ,
 California , in a May 27 telephone interview. “When we do more
studies, when we do larger studies, we see that the truth is a
smaller magnitude of effects to what we thought when that highly
cited study appeared.”  The researchers reviewed biomarker findings in 35 studies
from 1991 to 2006 that had been cited by 400 or more other
papers and had at least one analysis performed for the same
association. The studies involved genes, infectious disease
proteins and blood proteins linked mostly to cancer and heart
disease.  Review Findings  The review found that 30 of the highly cited studies, or 86
percent, showed a stronger effect than the largest study
investigating the same association. In only two cases was the
effect stronger in the largest study than in the original,
highly cited paper, researchers found.  For 29, or 83 percent, of the highly cited trials, an
analysis of multiple studies for the same association showed a
smaller effect, the authors said. Many of the highly cited
studies were relatively small and among the first to find an
association, they said.  Ioannidis, who conducted today’s study with Orestis
Panagiotou of the University of Ioannina School of Medicine in
 Greece , said a more systemized approach to proving whether the
biomarkers work is needed. For instance, if a biomarker is shown
to work in a trial, then maybe a group of researchers could try
to replicate the original findings. Only those biomarkers that
are proven to work would continue forward in development.  Importance of Validation  “We have to learn to trust the bigger picture,” Ioannidis
said in a statement. “And it’s better to demand this proof up
front rather than waiting for it to happen on a case-by-case
basis. It is vitally important to validate original published
findings with subsequent large-scale evidence to make progress
in the field of biomarkers and risk association.”  Patrick Bossuyt , a professor of clinical epidemiology at
the University of Amsterdam, wrote in an accompanying editorial
in the journal that it is “premature to doubt all scientific
efforts at marker discovery and unwise to discount all future
biomarker evaluation studies.”  Today’s findings “should convince clinicians and
researchers to be careful to match personal hope with
professional skepticism, to apply critical appraisal of study
design and close scrutiny of findings where indicated, and to be
aware of the findings of well-conducted systematic reviews and
meta-analyses when evaluating evidence on biomarkers,” Bossuyt
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  