-- 
Intact Financial to Buy Axa’s Canadian Unit for $2.7 Billion

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-06-01T20:08:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/intact-to-buy-axa-s-canadian-business-for-2-68-billion-boosting-premiums.html
Intact Financial Corp. (IFC) , Canada’s
largest property and casualty insurer, will buy  Axa SA (CS) ’s
Canadian business for C$2.6 billion ($2.7 billion) to bolster
its premiums in the country by almost 50 percent.  The cash purchase will generate an internal rate of return
of 20 percent and increase annual operating earnings per share
by 15 percent in the “mid-term,” Toronto-based Intact said
yesterday in a statement.  The takeover, the largest by a Canadian property insurer,
will increase Intact’s premiums by C$2 billion, to more than
C$6.5 billion, and save at least C$100 million a year through
cost cuts, according to the statement. The purchase is the first
by Intact, the former Canadian insurance unit of  ING Groep NV (INGA) ,
since its 2006 acquisition of Grey Power Insurance Brokers Inc.  “This is by far the biggest splash they’ve ever made,”
said  Craig Fehr , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis .
Until yesterday, Intact had “done some small deals” and
“tacked things on and built out a little bit,” he said.  Intact rose C$4.85, or 9.7 percent, to C$54.62 in 4 p.m.
trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the biggest gain since
November 2008. Axa climbed 1.5 percent to 15.06 euros.  Intact will finance the purchase with C$500 million of
excess capital, issue C$800 million of stock and access C$1.3
billion of credit facilities, the company said. The Canadian
unit of Paris-based Axa sells home, auto and business coverage
and is the sixth-largest insurer in the country.  The transaction “provides a very strong strategic fit and
it’s financially compelling,” Chief Executive Officer Charles Brindamour said yesterday in a conference call with investors.  CIBC World Markets  advised Intact on the sale.  Axa’s Plans  Axa,  Europe ’s second-largest insurer, will record an
exceptional capital gain of about 900 million euros ($1.3
billion) on the sale, which will be accounted for in net income,
the company said in a separate statement.  CEO Henri de Castries, 56, is scheduled to announce
development plans today in Paris as investors look to him for
signs that he can stem asset-management redemptions and use
growth in Asia to counter a slowdown in other markets.  The company has gained 19 percent in 2011 as it won a 17-
month battle to win direct control of its operations in Asian
countries from India to  Indonesia . By year-end, clients may stop
withdrawing funds at New York-based asset-management unit
AllianceBernstein LP, Axa said May 5. The firm said it had 13
billion euros in withdrawals in the first quarter, mostly at
AllianceBernstein.  Axa, along with AMP Ltd., in April completed a A$13.3
billion ($14.2 billion) bid for Melbourne-based Axa Asia Pacific
Holdings Ltd. to take control of businesses in a region where
wealth is growing at the world’s quickest rate.  ‘Important Deal’  “It’s an important deal,” said Danny Jacques, a Paris-
based analyst at  Raymond James  who recommends buying the stock.
“Axa has got free hands in Asia and, when  Japan  is excluded, it
has doubled the economic weight of its activities in Asia.”  Axa also seeks to expand in  China . In October, de Castries
traveled to Beijing to seal a life-insurance partnership with
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. ICBC bought a 60
percent stake in Shanghai-based AXA-Minmetals Assurance Co.,
while the French insurer holds 27.5 percent and China Minmetals
Corp. owns 12.5 percent.  Axa’s venture with ICBC, to be called ICBC-AXA Life
Insurance Co., will distribute products through ICBC’s network
of more than 16,000 branches nationwide, reaching out to 35
million clients. The deal is pending approval from Chinese
regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 