-- 
Intel Seeks to Challenge Apple’s IPad With New ‘Ultrabooks’

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-05-31T21:58:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/intel-seeks-to-challenge-apple-s-ipad-with-new-ultrabook-pcs.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
chipmaker, is promoting a new type of thinner laptop called an
ultrabook, seeking to help the personal-computer industry fend
off a challenge from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and other tablets.  The new machines will be less than an inch thick, have days
of battery life on standby, start up in just seconds and retail
for less than $1,000, according to Intel Executive Vice
President Sean Maloney, who discussed the products at a speech
today. Intel aims to convert 40 percent of consumer laptops to
the new category by the end of 2012.  Intel is trying to help the PC industry beat back the iPad,
which has attracted consumers seeking a thin, affordable
computer. Until now, ultraportable devices from PC makers
haven’t sold well because of high prices and chips that didn’t
deliver enough performance, Maloney said in an interview.  “We want to find new ways to propel the PC forward,” said
Maloney, who is taking on a newly created position as chairman
of Intel  China . “With what has happened in the tablet space,
there is a ‘hurry-up’ to the PC industry.”  While Intel also is developing new chips for tablet
computers, the company has struggled to translate its PC
dominance into success in that market. Apple’s device runs on
mobile-phone chips, rather than Intel processors. Tablets from
Samsung Electronics Co., Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and
Research In Motion Ltd. also rely on non-Intel chips.  Intel Tablets  Intel, based in  Santa Clara ,  California , expects to have 35
tablets based on its chips on sale by the end of the year. It
will demonstrate 10 of them during Maloney’s speech, which
happens today at the Computex industry show in  Taiwan .  Maloney was joined on stage by Asustek Computer Inc.
Chairman Jonney Shih to demonstrate that company’s UX21 ASUS
ultrabook computer. Later generations of ultrabooks will be
based on Intel’s new processor design, called Ivy Bridge.  Intel rose 30 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $22.51 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has
gained 7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net  