-- 
A2A, Stirling Sell Metroweb to F2i, Intesa Sanpaolo’s IMI Investimenti

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-05-31T08:31:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/intesa-s-imi-investimenti-f2i-to-acquire-metroweb-in-eu436-million-deal.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ’s IMI
Investimenti unit and infrastructure fund F2i SpA agreed to buy
 Metroweb SpA  from  A2A SpA (A2A)  and Stirling Square Capital Partners
in a deal valuing the owner of Milan’s largest fiber-optic
network at 436 million euros ($628 million).  Metroweb, whose network is the biggest in the northern
Italian city and the surrounding region of Lombardy, has more
than 7,000 kilometers (4,350 miles) of cables and covers an area
with more than 2.7 million people.  Stirling Square , a London-
based  private equity  firm, bought 76.5 percent of the company in
2006 from A2A, Milan’s municipal utility, which retained the
remaining 23.5 percent.  “The valuation of the company is generous and indicates
it’s a profitable business,” said Emanuele Vizzini, chief
investment officer of Investitori SGR in Milan. “Strategic
infrastructures are becoming increasingly attractive.”  The deal is based on an enterprise value for Metroweb of
more than 10 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, A2A said in a statement today. Fastweb SpA,
controlled by  Swisscom AG (SCMN) , has expressed an interest in
purchasing a minority stake in Metroweb after Intesa and F2i
complete the acquisition in June, F2i and Intesa said in a joint
statement. A spokeswoman for Milan-based Fastweb confirmed the
contents of the statement.  A group comprising Vodafone Group Plc, Clessidra Sgr SpA
and Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA, as well as Antin Infrastructure
Partners SAS and a unit of Axa Private Equity also put in bids,
people familiar with the deal said May 3.  Capital Gain  A2A, which sold its stake for 53 million euros, will
realize a capital gain of about 38 million euros, according to
the statement. Following the closing of the deal, Metroweb will
draft a new industrial plan to expand in other metropolitan
areas, with a focus on northern  Italy .  A2A will hold a convertible bond loan issued by Metroweb
that, if exercised, will correspond to a stake of about 25
percent in the company. A2A and Intesa said that five lenders
including Mediobanca SpA and Societe Generale SA will provide
financing for the deal.  Metroweb, led by Chief Executive Officer Alberto Trondoli,
is an independent open-network access provider that offers its
infrastructure to third parties including Telecom Italia SpA,
 FastWeb SpA (FWB) , Vodafone and Wind.  Lazard Ltd. advised Stirling Square and A2A on the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  