-- 
U.K. Stocks Retreat, Ending Five-Day Rally for FTSE 100 Index

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-06-01T16:07:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/intermediate-capital-kesa-shell-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks dropped after data on
U.S. manufacturing and jobs fell short of economists’ estimates
and shares traded without the right to their latest dividend,
dragging the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  lower.  AZ Electronic Materials SA (AZEM)  slumped 7.7 percent, leading a
retreat on the  FTSE 250 Index (MCX) , as funds managed by  Carlyle Group 
and Vestar Capital Partners sell 80 million shares.  Hammerson
Plc (HMSO)  climbed 1.4 percent after the property developer was raised
to “overweight” at Morgan Stanley.  The FTSE 100 lost 61.38, or 1 percent, to 5,928.61 at the
4:30 p.m. close in London, the first decline in six days. The
measure slid 1.3 percent last month amid renewed concern that
 Greece  will default on its debts and speculation the economic
recovery may falter. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  fell 0.9 percent
today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index advanced 0.3 percent.  “The U.S. ISM numbers and ADP jobs report both cast doubts
over the strength of the American economic recovery,” said
 Richard Hunter , head of U.K. equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Plc
in  London . “Along with the ongoing uncertainty concerning the
Greek situation and possible European contagion, investors are
tending to stand away from this fragile market at present.”  Companies in the U.S. added 38,000 workers to payrolls in
May, according to figures from ADP Employer Services. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists called for a
175,000 advance.  U.S.,  China  Manufacturing  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. factory index
fell to 53.5 in May from 60.4 in April, the Tempe, Arizona-based
group said. Economists had projected the gauge would drop to
57.1, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey.  In China, manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in
nine months in May as the government extended a campaign to cool
inflation and the  property market , a survey of companies
indicated.  National Grid Plc (NG/) ,  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  WPP Plc (WPP) ,  Intertek
Group Plc (ITRK)  and  Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc (CSCG)  were among
companies on the FTSE 100 that traded without the right to their
latest dividend today.  AZ Electronic tumbled 7.7 percent to 312 pence, the biggest
slide since its initial public offering last year. The shares
are likely to be priced between 302 pence and the market price,
according to terms of the deal obtained by Bloomberg News.  Glencore Barred  Glencore International Plc sank 3.2 percent to 513.9 pence.
The  European Investment Bank  has barred the world’s largest
listed commodity trader from receiving future loans because of
corporate governance concerns and a tax dispute with the Zambia
Revenue Authority.  Hammerson climbed 1.4 percent to 486.3 pence.  Tate & Lyle Plc (TATE)  surged 5 percent to 651.5 pence, a four-
year high, as investors speculated that Bunge Ltd. may bid for
the company. The Financial Times’s Alphaville blog said that
Bunge may bid 820 pence bid for Tate. Exane BNP Paribas analysts
said Bunge would have to issue a lot of equity for any takeover.
Deutsche Bank analysts also raised their forecast for the stock.  A Tate & Lyle spokesman declined to comment on any possible
bid for the company. A call and e-mail to a spokesman for Bunge
were not immediately returned.  G4S Plc (GFS) , the security provider for London’s 2012 Olympic
Games, climbed 1.8 percent to 291 pence as Banco Espirito Santo
SA rated the stock “buy” in new coverage, citing a recovery in
developed markets.  “International acquisitions and the potential for cyclical
recovery in cash management would present additional catalysts
for growth and sentiment,” said David Brockton, an analyst at
Espirito Santo in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  