-- 
Ireland May Restructure Debt as Economy Contracts, E&Y Says

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-05-31T12:50:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/ireland-may-restructure-debt-as-economy-contracts-e-y-says-1-.html
Ireland may try to restructure its
debt to lower interest payments or extend the maturity on its
borrowings as the economy contracts again this year, according
to Ernst & Young.  The government probably will repay its debt and investors
aren’t likely to lose any of their principal, a move that would
imply a default, said Neil Gibson, a Belfast-based economist
with the financial-services and advisory firm.  “Ireland is not  Greece  or  Portugal ,” he said today by
telephone. “Ireland has a genuine prospect of being able to pay
off its debts because it has such a strong international
business base.”  Ireland’s economy is struggling to expand as consumer spend
less amid government cutbacks and higher prices. The economy
will probably return to annual growth next year as consumers
repair their personal finances and exports gain, Gibson said.  “It is much more likely that the debts will be repaid in
full, but at probably a more modest interest rate or over a
longer time frame,” Gibson said, adding that he expects the
economy to contract 2.3 percent this year as “the headwinds are
too significant.”  Economic Growth  Ireland Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said
yesterday that while growth is “very modest at best” this
year, the economy will improve in 2012. “Nothing will work”
unless the economy, which has contracted about 15 percent since
the end of 2007, returns to growth, Honohan said.  Ernst & Young expects private consumption in Ireland to
decline 4.1 percent this year and 3.3 percent in 2012 as the
government pushes through austerity measures to bring the
 budget deficit  to 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2015.
GDP will probably expand 1.1 percent in 2012 and 2.2 percent the
following year, according to Ernst & Young.  European Union leaders will decide on additional aid for
Greece by the end of June and have ruled out a “total
restructuring” of the nation’s debt,  Jean-Claude Juncker , head
of the group of euro-area finance ministers, said yesterday.  Ireland needn’t “worry as urgently” as countries such as
Greece because it won’t have to borrow in 2011 thanks to its 85
billion-euro ($122 billion) agreement last year, Gibson said.
Ireland may avoid seeking additional bailout funds from the EU
when the current financing run out at the end of 2013, he said.  ‘Very Strong’  “The international markets must believe the same thing we
do, which is fundamentally Ireland’s economic prospects are very
strong,” Gibson said. “One would hope by 2012, early 2013, the
markets would have come around to that view.”  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said yesterday that there’s
“no question” of Ireland needing a second bailout package in
2012. He was responding to comments by Transport Minister Leo
Varadkar that Ireland was “very unlikely” to re-enter bond
markets next year, as set out in the bailout plan.  “If Greece went for re-profiling and it was well received
and bedded-down, that might set a precedent and Ireland could
follow quite swiftly,” according to Gibson. “Ireland will be
having those conversations, if not officially, then unofficially
already.”  Bank of Ireland Plc, Ireland’s largest bank, said today it
will seek to impose losses of as much as 90 percent on 2.6
billion euros of subordinated debt as it offers bondholders an
exchange for cash or equity. Noonan said the government will
take “whatever steps” are necessary to achieve “appropriate
burden-sharing” with junior bondholders, as the state seeks to
claw back investments in its debt-laden lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  