-- 
This $4.3 Billion Deal Confounds CEO President: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-05-31T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/this-4-3-billion-deal-baffles-ceo-president-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
For a man who billed himself as the
CEO president,  Lee Myung Bak  of  South Korea  sure seems to lack
business sense. In February 2008, voters turned to Lee, the
former chief executive officer of several Hyundai Group
businesses, to see through the reforms needed to break the
economic gridlock. Who better to drive change than a guy famed
for bulldozing the competition?  Buyer’s remorse is setting in as Lee’s management proves to
be more erratic than steady.  Koreans were patient when Lee’s missteps involved
diplomacy. His move to reverse efforts by his two predecessors
to negotiate with North  Korea  was a case in point. They also
overlooked his support of the Bush administration’s foreign
policy adventures and his steps to censor the Internet.  Yet tolerance is running thin as Lee misplays what should
be his strong suit: promoting economic stability and
accomplishing financial reform. If Lee doesn’t get serious about
both, investors will hand down their own verdict, which won’t be
good for the nation’s markets.  The first issue -- economic overheating -- is an immediate
danger. On the surface, this seems more a concern for Kim Choong Soo, Korea’s central bank governor, than for Lee. Since the
collapse of the global economy in 2008, central banks around the
world have sought to maintain their independence from the
politicians who need sound economic growth in order to stay in
office. Korea is no exception as Kim struggles to tame
inflation, at the same time offering up monetary policy that
supports growth.  State of Denial  While Lee’s policy makers deny it, investors in  Seoul 
believe the  Bank of Korea  is under intense pressure to leave
 interest rates  low. Each time the central bank raises rates, the
Korean won’s rise accelerates. This undermines key exporters
like Samsung Electronics Co. and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , making their
products more expensive in overseas markets.  Inflation remains above Korea’s benchmark interest rate of
3 percent, and the 4.7 percent rise in consumer prices in March
was a troubling sign that things might get away from the central
bank. Too often in the past, low rates have fueled bubbles in
asset markets such as real estate and led to runaway inflation.
This is a risk for South Korea and it’s clear that Lee’s
government hasn’t done enough yet to ring out the excesses.  The relationship between Lee’s team and the central bank
has been inept, at best. It almost goes without saying that
politicians who bend central bank policies to their own needs
increase the odds of boom-bust cycles that hurt business.  Sense of Disappointment  The second issue -- financial reform -- is just as
important. Nothing captures the collective sense of
disappointment in Lee better than the saga of  Korea Exchange
Bank. (004940)  In 2003,  Lone Star Funds , a U.S. private-equity fund,
grabbed a 51 percent stake in KEB amid the fallout from the
Asian financial crisis several years earlier. Firms such as Lone
Star were cast by policy makers as saviors for pouring cash into
crippled companies. On the Korean street, though, they
engendered hostility toward foreigners looking to turn quick
profits from Korea’s pain. In Seoul, "private equity" became
interchangeable with "vulture."  For five years regulators have stymied Lone Star’s efforts
to sell on the grounds that there may be doubt as to whether the
original purchase was legitimate. It’s but one of Lee’s failings
that he hasn’t championed a resolution of the matter, and led an
effort to quell animosity toward overseas investors. Last month,
regulators again delayed a decision on approving a transaction.
The odd thing is the sale wouldn’t put KEB into foreign hands,
but Korean ones. The latest bid -- $4.3 billion -- comes from
Seoul-based  Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790)   Damaged Image  The longer this battle gets drawn out, the more damage it
does to the image of one of the world’s most promising
economies. And Korea has plenty of promise, so long as it
doesn’t get complacent amid the competitive threats posed by
 China ,  India  and  Indonesia .  In April 2008, two months after taking power, Lee had this
to say to investors in  New York : “I am the CEO of the Korea
Inc. I truly hope you will come on board by investing in
Korea.”  Three years later, the CEO has yet to prove  Asia ’s fourth-
biggest economy is truly open for business.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  