-- 
Italy Needs to Cut Spending, Taxes to Boost Growth, Draghi Says

-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 
2011-05-31T10:25:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/italy-needs-to-cut-spending-taxes-to-boost-growth-draghi-says.html
Italy  must cut spending selectively
and approve a “substantial” reduction in corporate and labor
taxes to support economic growth,  European Central Bank 
governing council member  Mario Draghi  said.  “It would be inadvisable to seek a permanent and credible
reduction of expenditure by cutting items uniformly across the
board,” Draghi said in a speech at the Bank of Italy’s annual
meeting in Rome today. “What is needed, instead, is a
skillfully designed package, based on a thorough analysis, item
by item, of the accounts of the public-sector agencies.”  The country should pare taxes, at the same time
“offsetting the loss of revenue by making further progress
against tax evasion,” he said. Italy needs to cut current
expenditure by 5 percent in 2012 through 2014, said Draghi, who
is also governor of the  Bank of Italy . Measures should be taken
to improve the education system, competition in services, the
labor market and infrastructure spending, he said.  Italy’s credit-rating outlook was lowered on May 21 to
negative from stable by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited the
nation’s slowing economic growth and “diminished” prospects
for reducing debt. The objective of achieving budget balance in
2014 is “appropriate,” Draghi said.  Italian banks’ liquidity position “has remained balanced
as a whole,” he said. Investors have responded “readily” to
the central bank’s calls to strengthen their capital bases,
according to Draghi. Smaller lenders should improve their
governance and credit risk-control systems while larger banks
should continue the “rationalization of distribution
networks.”  Italy’s central bank is working to adapt international
capital-adequacy rules to “the specific characteristics of
Italian banks,” said Draghi, who is the sole contender to
succeed  Jean-Claude Trichet  when his term as ECB president
expires at the end of October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  