-- 
Ivory Coast to Miss June 30 Payment on Defaulted Eurobonds, Minister Says

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-05-31T16:26:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/ivory-coast-to-miss-june-30-payment-on-defaulted-eurobonds-minister-says.html
Ivory Coast  will not make a June 30
payment on its defaulted Eurobonds and will ask the Paris Club
and  London  Club creditors to “renegotiate,” said Finance
Minister Charles Koffi Diby.  “They know we have financial problems at the moment,” he
told reporters in Abidjan, the commercial capital, today. Ivory
Coast, which is emerging from a post-election crisis, is due to
make a $28.6 million interest payment by June 30, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The dollar-denominated bonds due 2032 of the world’s
biggest cocoa producer slumped 8.2 percent to 51.950 cents on
the dollar as of 5:10 p.m. in London, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The debt has rallied 48 percent since its
record low on March 16.  Ivory Coast failed to make a $29 million interest payment
due at the end of January as  Alassane Ouattara , internationally
recognized as victor of the elections, was locked in a political
standoff with  Laurent Gbagbo , who refusal to step down triggered
a civil war.  “It’s not clear what they mean by ‘renegotiate,’ if they
mean they just need a little more time to make the payment, I
think the bonds will recover,”  Stuart Culverhouse , chief
economist at London-based Exotix Ltd., said in a phone interview
today. “I don’t know if creditors would be too willing to
renegotiate, I think they are willing to make time to make the
payment and December payment.”  Emerging Funding  The government of the West African nation is seeking
emergency funds from the  International Monetary Fund , the  World
Bank  and the  African Development Bank  in a bid to stabilize the
economy after the four-month political crisis that following a
disputed November presidential vote. More than 2,000 people may
have died in post-election violence, according to the  United
Nations .  The African Development Bank will give 77 billion CFA
francs ($169 million) in budget support funding to Ivory Coast,
said Richard Dofonssou, the Tunis-based lender’s representative
in the country.  The Washington-based IMF’s board will decide on whether to
approve a $130 million loan in July, Doris Ross, head of the
delegation of international lenders visiting the nation, told
reporters in Abidjan, the commercial capital, today.  Ivory Coast’s economy may contract 7.5 percent this year,
from growth of 2.6 percent in 2010, according to the IMF.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  