-- 
Moody’s Puts Japan Ratings on Downgrade Review

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-05-31T02:47:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/japan-s-aa2-government-debt-ratings-put-on-review-for-downgrade-by-moody-s.html
Japan ’s sovereign rating was put on
review for a downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service, raising the
challenge for Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  to fund post-earthquake
reconstruction while limiting the rise in long-term debt.  “The review has been prompted by heightened concern that
faltering economic growth prospects and a weak policy response
would make more challenging the government’s ability to fashion
and achieve a credible deficit reduction target,” Moody’s said
in a statement. The company put Japan’s Aa2 sovereign debt grade
on negative outlook in February. Review for a downgrade means a
decision within three months, according to Moody’s.  Today’s move, four days after a similar decision by  Fitch
Ratings , sent the yen heading for a second day of losses against
the dollar. It was down 0.3 percent at 81.19 as of 11:42 a.m. in
Tokyo.  Fitch lowered the outlook to negative on its AA- long-term
local currency rating for Japan.  Standard & Poor’s  cut its
outlook on the AA- grade in April after lowering the rating in
January. The current grade at Moody’s, the third-highest, is one
step higher than S&P and Fitch.  Japan’s government debt is projected to reach 219 percent
of gross domestic product next year, the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said this week, a burden
that may be exacerbated by efforts to rebuild the nation after a
record March 11 temblor. Kan, facing declining approval ratings
and a recession, hasn’t indicated how he plans to reduce debt in
an economy plagued by deflation and a shrinking population.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  