-- 
Japan Stocks Rise Most in Two Months as Yen Retreats, Production Rebounds

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-05-31T08:08:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/japanese-stocks-advance-for-first-time-in-three-days-on-greece-optimism.html
Japanese stocks climbed the most in
two months as the yen fell amid optimism the European Union will
do more to ease the region’s debt crisis and a report showed
Japan’s industrial production is set to rebound.  Mazda Motor Corp., the Japanese carmaker most dependant on
European sales, gained 1.5 percent as the euro rose against the
yen, boosting the value of repatriated earnings.  Sony Corp. (6758) ,
which gets 70 percent of sales overseas, climbed 1.9 percent
amid speculation the EU will offer further aid to  Greece . Fanuc
Corp., a maker of industrial robots, rose 1.8 percent after a
Trade Ministry report showed factory production may recover from
March’s earthquake disaster as soon as next month.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 2 percent to 9,693.73 at
the 3 p.m. close of trading in  Tokyo , the steepest gain since
March 30. The broader Topix index added 1.8 percent to 838.48,
paring a decline of 1.6 percent for the month.  “Even though the euro has weakened in the midst of
Greece’s debt crisis, the currency is having a little comeback
and that’s given some relief to exporter shares,”  Yoshinori Nagano , a senior strategist in Tokyo at Daiwa Asset Management
Co., which oversees the equivalent of $104 billion.  The Topix has lost about 10 percent since the magnitude-9
earthquake and tsunami that devastated Japan’s northeast coast
on March 11, crippling a nuclear power plant run by Tokyo
Electric Power Co. and damaging factories that supply parts to
the country’s car and electronics makers.  Production Comeback  Stocks rose today after Japanese manufacturers surveyed by
the Trade Ministry said they plan to increase factory output 8
percent this month and a further 7.7 percent in June. If those
plans materialize, the index that tracks Japan’s industrial
production would rise to 97.1, just below February’s level of
97.9 before the quake.  “Today’s figures are significant because they confirm that
production is coming back,” said Daiwa’s Nagano.  The rally in Japanese shares, the first in three days,
continued even after Moody’s Investors Service put Japan’s debt
rating on review for a downgrade. Faltering growth prospects and
“a weak policy response” may hinder government efforts to cut
the nation’s debt burden, Moody’s said.  Hacker Attack  Mazda, which gets about a fifth of its sales in  Europe ,
climbed 1.5 percent to 205 yen. Sony, Japan’s largest consumer
electronics exporter, advanced 1.9 percent to 2,163 yen.
Separately, the maker of televisions and video game consoles
said it plans to fully resume its PlayStation Network in all
regions excluding Japan,  Hong Kong  and  South Korea  by this
weekend following a hacker attack six weeks ago.  European Union leaders will decide on additional aid for
Greece by the end of June and have ruled out a “total
restructuring” of the nation’s debt, said  Jean-Claude Juncker ,
head of the euro-area finance ministers’ group.  The Wall Street Journal, citing unidentified people,
reported yesterday that  Germany  may stop demanding an early
rescheduling of bonds for Greece so that the debt-strapped
nation can get a new package of loans.  The euro advanced 1.4 percent against the yen at the close
of stock market trading in  Japan , while the  U.S. dollar  rose 0.8
percent, easing pressure on the nation’s exporters.  Fanuc rose 1.8 percent to 12,490 yen. Fuji Electric Co., a
maker of factory automation equipment and power supplies, surged
5.1 percent to 249 yen. Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd., which
makes ships and turbines, climbed 4.8 percent to 394 yen.  Sojitz Corp., a trading company, gained 4.9 percent to 151
yen today. It will boost production of rare metals in Portugal
and  Canada  by as much as 60 percent between 2012 and 2013, the
Nikkei newspaper reported today without citing anyone.  Tokyo Electric, which posted the biggest loss on record for
a non-financial Japanese company after March’s disaster,
declined 2.8 percent to 317 yen. The company’s credit ratings
were lowered to junk status by Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services, which cited an increasing likelihood that banks may
restructure some of the utility’s debts.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 