-- 
Japan Faces Debt-Rating Downgrade as Unemployment Rise Adds to Kan’s Woes

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-05-31T06:46:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/japan-faces-debt-rating-downgrade-as-unemployment-rise-adds-to-kan-s-woes.html
Japan ’s debt rating was put on review
for a downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service, adding to Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan ’s fiscal challenges after an increase in
joblessness and smaller-than-forecast gain in factory production.  Faltering growth prospects and “a weak policy response”
may hinder government efforts to cut the nation’s debt burden,
said Moody’s, which had put Japan’s Aa2 rating on negative
outlook in February. Government reports showed separately that
output rose 1 percent in April, half the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey, while unemployment rose to 4.7 percent
from 4.6 percent.  Kan, facing a no-confidence motion in parliament, said
today he won’t step down, signaling continued political
infighting that may hamper legislation to finance long-term
reconstruction after the March earthquake and tsunami. Japan,
which has the world’s biggest public debt, saw its currency
retreat for a second day against the dollar and bonds fall.  “This means we’re one step closer to a downgrade, and it
reflects how we haven’t seen any political progress on fixing
public finances,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist
at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo. “There are still plenty of people in
the JGB market to keep buying, so it’s not like we’re going to
see a sudden spike in yields. But this will put upward pressure
on yields through an added risk premium.”  Downgrade Possibility  Most  credit rating  reviews result in a downgrade, and
Japan’s will likely be completed in three months,  Thomas Byrne ,
senior vice president at Moody’s, told reporters in Tokyo today.
He also said that the possibility of more than a one-notch
rating reduction was “low.”  Japanese  government bonds  fell for the first time in three
sessions, with benchmark 10-year securities yielding 1.15
percent as of 3:10 p.m. The yen weakened to 81.45 per dollar.
The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average gained 2 percent to 9,693.73 on
manufacturers’ forecasts that production will accelerate.  The companies said they plan to boost output 8 percent this
month and 7.7 percent in June, according to today’s report.  The Moody’s step comes four days after  Fitch Ratings 
lowered the outlook to negative on its AA- long-term local
currency rating for Japan.  Standard & Poor’s  cut its outlook on
the AA- grade in April after lowering the rating in January. The
current grade at Moody’s, the third-highest, is one step higher
than S&P and Fitch.  Deficit Reduction   Moody’s said it’s concerned at the government’s ability to
“fashion and achieve a credible deficit reduction target.”  Japan’s government debt is projected to reach 219 percent
of gross domestic product next year, the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development estimates, a burden that
may be exacerbated by efforts to rebuild the nation after a
record March 11 temblor. Kan, facing declining approval ratings
and a recession, hasn’t indicated how he plans to cut deficits
in an economy plagued by deflation and a shrinking population.  “Rating agencies are very concerned whether fiscal
discipline will be maintained or not,” said Mitsumaru Kumagai,
chief economist at Daiwa Institute of Research in  Tokyo . “The
government should raise the  sales tax  by around 2015. Otherwise,
Japan’s public debt will likely become unsustainable.”  Kan’s approval rating stood at 28 percent, according to a
survey taken jointly by the Nikkei newspaper and TV Tokyo on May
27-29. Forty-six percent of the respondents said they oppose a
tax increase as a means of paying for quake reconstruction. Kan
has said raising the 5 percent consumption tax can pare debt.  Quake Disruptions  The gain in industrial output, after a record decline in
March, missed the 2 percent median estimate of 30 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The jobless rate advanced from 4.6
percent as payrolls fell, a separate report showed.  Disruptions caused by the quake have had an impact beyond
Japan, with  South Korea  reporting today that industrial output
expanded at the slowest pace in seven months in April.  South Korea’s industrial output climbed a less-than-
expected 6.9 percent from a year earlier last month and in
 Singapore , production fell a sharper-than-expected 9.5 percent
from a year earlier in April.  Japan’s economy shrank at an annual 3.7 percent pace in the
first quarter and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News expect a
slump of 2.5 percent in the three months ending June, extending
a contraction that began in the final three months of 2010.  Wages Fall  Wages fell 1.4 percent in April from a year earlier, a
separate government report showed today, the biggest drop since
December 2009. The job-to-applicants ratio deteriorated to 0.61
from 0.63, an indication that there are 61 positions available
for every 100 applicants.  Overseas sales decreased 12.5 percent in April from a year
earlier, the biggest drop since October 2009, evidence that
companies are still struggling to produce and ship goods to meet
overseas demand. The value of automobile exports plunged to its
second lowest level since data began in 1979, the  Finance
Ministry  said.  Nissan Motor Co. Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said
on May 17 that the automaker plans to invest 3 billion yen to
reinforce the foundation of its most heavily damaged domestic
factory after the earthquake in northern Japan disrupted output.  Rival Honda Motor Co., Japan’s third-largest automaker,
said on May 17 that it will return to normal production before
the end of the year. Toyota Motor Corp. expects production to
normalize by November or December.  ‘Inexorable’ Debt Increase  Kan plans to come up with second extra budget for
reconstruction after parliament approved a 4 trillion yen ($50
billion) package this month. He needs the cooperation of
opposition politicians to get the budget enacted. The government
in March estimated that damage from the disaster will swell to
as high as 25 trillion yen.  Moody’s said Japan will spend about 2 percent of GDP for
reconstruction, excluding costs that arise from helping Tokyo
Electric Power Co. pay for the Fukushima nuclear accident.  “The inexorable rise in government debt suggests that
actions are urgently needed to regain a path of fiscal
consolidation,” Moody’s said. “The government’s large
refinancing needs introduce a susceptibility to a credit market
tipping point, which could lead to an abrupt fall in JGB prices
and a rise in yields.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  