-- 
Japan Output Rebounds Less Than Forecast After Quake as Unemployment Rises

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-05-31T02:39:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/japan-industrial-production-rose-1-in-april.html
Japan ’s industrial production rose
less than economists forecast in April and unemployment climbed,
increasing the likelihood that the economy will contract for a
third quarter after an unprecedented earthquake.  Factory output rose 1 percent in April from a record drop
in March, the Trade Ministry said in Tokyo today, missing the 2
percent median estimate of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The jobless rate advanced to 4.7 percent from 4.6 percent
as payrolls fell, a separate report showed.  Disruptions caused by the March 11 quake, tsunami and
nuclear crisis have had an impact beyond Japan, with South Korea
reporting today that industrial output expanded at the slowest
pace in seven months in April. Toyota Motor Corp.,  Nissan Motor 
Co., and Honda Motor Co., the nation’s three-biggest carmakers,
said last week that their production plunged in April.  “Companies are planning on a big production increase in
June, but we might not have enough demand for those goods in
coming months,” said Hiroshi Miyazaki, chief economist at
Shinkin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “There’s a big risk that
this deterioration in the job market further damps  consumer
spending , in turn forcing manufacturers to cut back on
production plans.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.2 percent to 9,615.54
on optimism European officials will offer further help for
 Greece . The weakened to 80.99 yen per dollar as of 11:34 a.m.
after Moody’s Investors Service said it placed Japan’s local and
foreign sovereign ratings on review for a possible downgrade.  Toyota Output  Toyota Motor, the world’s biggest carmaker, said last week
that its production in Japan fell 78 percent in April, the
largest decline in 35 years. Nissan said its domestic output
declined 49 percent, while Honda said its Japan output fell 81
percent. The record temblor in northeastern Japan in March left
about 24,000 people dead or missing.  South Korea ’s industrial output climbed a less-than-
expected 6.9 percent from a year earlier last month, partly
reflecting shortages of electronic parts because of Japan’s
earthquake, the country’s statistics agency said today. The
median estimate of 10 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 9.2 percent advance.  In  Singapore , industrial production fell a sharper-than-
expected 9.5 percent from a year earlier in April, according to
a report released on May 26.  Economic Contraction  Japan’s economy shrank at an annual 3.7 percent pace in the
first quarter and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News expect the
slump to extend into the three months ending June, extending a
contraction that began in the final three months of 2010.  Japanese manufacturers said they plan to increase
production 8 percent this month and 7.7 percent in June,
evidence that the economic recovery may start to take hold later
in the year.  Still, it may take time for the manufacturing sector to
recover as companies are having difficulty procuring parts,
Naohiko Baba, chief Japan economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
in  Tokyo , said before the report.  “Production is recovering rapidly from the effects of the
earthquake,” Baba said. Even so, “supply chain problems are
still not completely resolved as of May, and we think production
will not begin rising significantly before June.”  Overseas sales fell 12.5 percent in April from a year
earlier, the biggest drop since October 2009, evidence that
companies are still struggling to produce and ship goods to meet
overseas demand. The value of automobile exports plunged to its
second lowest level since data began in 1979, the  Finance
Ministry  said.  Nissan Rebuilding  Nissan Motor’s Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said on
May 17 that the automaker plans to invest 3 billion yen to
reinforce the foundation of its most heavily damaged domestic
factory after the earthquake in northern Japan disrupted output.  Rival Honda Motor, Japan’s third-largest automaker, said on
May 17 that it will return to normal production before the end
of the year. Toyota Motor expects production to normalize by
November or December.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  plans to come up with second extra
budget for reconstruction after parliament approved a 4 trillion
yen ($50 billion) package this month. Kan, who will face his
first parliamentary no-confidence vote as early as this week,
needs the cooperation of opposition politicians to get the
budget enacted. The government in March estimated that damage
from the disaster will swell to as high as 25 trillion yen.  Wages fell 1.4 percent in April from a year earlier, a
separate government report showed today, the biggest drop since
December 2009. The job-to-applicants ratio deteriorated to 0.61
from 0.63, an indication that there are 61 positions available
for every 100 applicants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net 
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  