-- 
Kenya Plans to Appeal ICC Ruling on Admissibility of Cases

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-05-31T12:52:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/kenya-plans-to-appeal-icc-ruling-on-admissibility-of-cases-1-.html
Kenyan Attorney General Amos Wako
plans to appeal the  International Criminal Court ’s decision to
reject a government challenge to the admissibility of two cases
brought before The Hague-based court on post-election violence.  The ICC’s pre-trial chamber didn’t hear oral arguments from
the Kenyan government that are “fundamental to the development
of international criminal law,” Wako said in a statement today.
The ICC’s pre-trial chamber ruled the cases are admissible
because  Kenya  failed to show it’s moving ahead with proceedings
against the accused,  the court said  yesterday. Kenya has five
days to file an appeal the ruling.  The East African nation should have a chance to present to
the appeal court the latest status of local investigations and
changes Kenya has made to its judicial system that would allow
it to take over the cases, according to the statement that was
e-mailed from Wako’s office in Nairobi, the capital.  The ICC is due to start hearings in September to determine
whether six Kenyan suspects, including Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta , Francis Muthaura, head of the civil service, and
former police chief Hussein Ali, will stand trial or have the
charges against them dropped.  The suspects are accused of orchestrating two months of
violence after a disputed election in December 2007 that left
1,500 people dead and displaced another 300,000. All six men
deny accusations of crimes against humanity.  The violence ended when President Mwai Kibaki signed a
power-sharing accord with then-opposition leader  Raila Odinga ,
who was installed in the newly created post of prime minister.  Wako said he will meet with British lawyers Geoffrey Nice
and Rodney Dixon in  London  on June 3 to discuss the appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  