-- 
Kenya’s Annual Inflation Rate Climbed for Seventh Consecutive Month in May

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-05-31T08:27:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/kenya-s-annual-inflation-rate-climbed-for-seventh-consecutive-month-in-may.html
Kenyan inflation accelerated for the
seventh consecutive month in May, adding to pressure on the
central bank to increase  interest rates  and keep draining
liquidity from the financial system.  The inflation rate climbed to 13 percent, a 25-month high,
from 12.1 percent in April, the  Kenya National Bureau of
Statistics  said in an e-mailed statement today. Prices rose 1
percent in the month, the Nairobi-based statistics agency said.  “The market has been expecting inflation to trend
upwards,” Andrew Murugu, head of global markets for CfC Stanbic
Bank, said by phone from the capital today. The central bank
needs to increase interest rates, he said.  The bank’s monetary policy committee will meet today to set
its benchmark rate, currently 6 percent. All seven economists
surveyed by Bloomberg expect an increase, with forecasts ranging
from a quarter-point to 1 percentage point.  Food and fuel have been the chief drivers of inflation.
Rains between March and May, the nation’s long rainy season,
were “very poor” in most parts of the country, damaging crops
and pushing up prices, the  Kenya Meteorological Department  said
on May 26.  Food and non-alcoholic drink prices jumped an annual 20
percent in May, while transport, including petrol and bus fares,
rose 22 percent, according to the statistics bureau.  Petrol Prices  A surge in global  oil prices  led to a 23 percent increase
in fuel costs in  Kenya  between November and May, Kaburu
Mwirichia, director general of the country’s Energy Regulatory
Commission, said on May 20. Kenya this month raised the price of
retail petrol in the capital, Nairobi, where the majority of
fuels are consumed, by 3.8 percent.  The central bank raised its key rate by a quarter-point on
March 22, reversing a cut announced two months earlier. It has
also sold 20.4 billion shillings ($238 million) of  repurchase
agreements  since May 11 to push up interbank lending rates and
curb demand.  Seeking to curb prices, Kenya’s government has also pledged
to remove duties on imported wheat and corn. It has already
reduced taxes on diesel and kerosene, a fuel used for cooking
and lighting.  “Everyone’s expectations are anchored in higher
inflation,” Robert Bunyi, managing director of Mavuno Capital,
said by phone from Nairobi on May 25. “High fuel prices have
come out very strongly and world food prices are on the
increase. I would expect the bank to raise rates further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 