-- 
Kenya’s Shilling Strengthens for 1st Day in Three on Repo Sale

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-05-31T11:49:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/kenya-s-shilling-strengthens-for-1st-day-in-three-on-repo-sale.html
Kenya’s shilling strengthened for the
first day in three as the central bank mopped up supply by
selling  repurchase agreements  for a 15th trading session.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy appreciated
as much as 0.3 percent to 85.60 per dollar and was trading 0.2
percent higher or 85.65 at 2:17 p.m. in the capital, Nairobi,
from yesterday’s close of 85.85.  The central bank offered to buy 1 billion shillings ($12
million) of repos today, it said in a statement on its Bloomberg
page. In a repo transaction, an investor agrees to sell a
security to another trader, while arranging to buy it back at a
future date and at a pre-determined price. It has mopped up 20.4
billion shillings since May 11.  “The continuous mopping up is giving a reprieve to the
local unit with the market awaiting the monetary policy
committee decision on its benchmark interest rate as the key
determinant on the direction the shilling will take,” Bernard
Matimu, chief dealer at Nairobi-based NIC Bank Ltd., said in a
phone interview today.  Kenya ’s monetary policy committee will probably raise the
benchmark interest rate by between a quarter percentage point
and 1 percentage point from the current 6 percent, according to
all seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The central bank is
due to announce the decision today.  Inflation accelerated for the seventh consecutive month in
May, adding to pressure on the central bank to increase interest
rates and keep draining liquidity from the financial system.  The inflation rate climbed to 13 percent, a 25-month high,
from 12.1 percent in April, the Nairobi-based statistics office
in an e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  