-- 
Kesa Investor Knight Vinke Said to Suggest Comet Exit, Listing in Paris

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-05-31T16:52:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/kesa-investor-knight-vinke-said-to-suggest-comet-exit-as-option.html
Kesa Electricals Plc (KESA) ’s largest
investor asked the retailer to consider options that may include
ending its unprofitable U.K. Comet operations and listing its
shares in Paris, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Knight Vinke Asset Management LLC, which owns 18 percent of
the London-based company’s shares, suggested listing in France,
where Kesa’s Darty chain is the largest electronics retailer,
according to the person, who declined to be identified because
the matter is private. A Kesa spokesman declined to comment.  Knight Vinke will meet with Kesa’s board ahead of the
retailer’s June 22 full-year results presentation, the person
said. Kesa’s largest market by revenue is France, where stronger
sales have compensated for declines in the U.K. Comet’s same-
store sales fell 15 percent in the three months ended April 30.  Kesa may sell its developing-market businesses in Spain,
Turkey and  Italy  along with Comet, two people familiar with the
matter said on May 16. Kesa’s brokerage advisers are UBS AG and
Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Knight Vinke first disclosed a 3 percent stake in Kesa in
June 2010. The activist investor this year questioned plans by
Carrefour SA to list 25 percent of its property unit. The French
retailer later said it would postpone the plan. Today, Knight
Vinke said it opposes the French supermarket owner selling
assets outside of  Europe  individually and that management should
focus on improving business in the region.  Capital Research and Management Co. is Kesa’s second-
largest shareholder after Knight Vinke with an 8.4 percent
stake, followed by UBS Global Asset management with 7.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  