-- 
Korea’s Won Gains to Three-Week High as Concern About Greek Debt Eases

-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-05-31T07:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/korea-s-won-gains-to-three-week-high-as-concern-about-greek-debt-eases.html
South Korea’s climbed to a three-week
high as speculation European officials will sanction more
support for Greece boosted demand for emerging-market assets.  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said European Union leaders will
decide on a new aid package for Greece by the end of June. Asian
stocks rose and South Korea’s Kospi index closed up 2.3 percent.
The won completed a monthly decline, its first since February,
after concern earlier in the month that  Europe ’s debt crisis was
worsening prompted investors to favor holding dollars.  “Expectations the Greek debt crisis may see some progress
boosted demand for riskier assets including the won,” said Han Sung Min, currency dealer at Busan Bank in Seoul. “Speculation
the authorities may try to cap a rapid rise in the won limited
further gains.”  The won strengthened 0.1 percent to 1,079.15 per dollar as
of the 3 p.m. close in  Seoul , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It climbed 0.5 percent to 1,074.80 earlier, the
strongest level since May 11. The currency weakened 0.7 percent
in May.  Bonds erased earlier gains. The yield on the 3 percent bond
due December 2013 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 3.59 percent, according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc.
The rate fell 18 basis points for the month.  The yield earlier dropped to the lowest since January after
data released today showed the nation’s factory output climbed
6.9 percent from a year earlier in April, the least in seven
months. South Korean manufacturers’ confidence retreated from an
eight-month high in June, the  Bank of Korea  said separately.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  in  Hong Kong  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 