-- 
Kremlin Ombudsman Urges Prosecution Over Hermitage Death

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-05-31T13:54:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/kremlin-ombudsman-urges-prosecution-over-hermitage-death-1-.html
A senior Russian investigator should
be prosecuted for his role in the death of Sergei Magnitsky, the
Hermitage Capital Management Ltd. lawyer who died in November
2009 after almost a year in pre-trial detention, a presidential
human rights ombudsman said.  The comments from Valery Borshchev, a member of the human
rights council set up by President  Dmitry Medvedev , came a day
after the Investigative Committee said Oleg Silchenko hadn’t
committed any legal violations in prosecuting Magnitsky, who was
37 when he died of heart failure. Borshchev’s committee is
conducting its own probe.  Silchenko refused Magnitsky’s request for an ultra-sound
scan and operation, Borshchev said today by telephone. “This
refusal played a central role in Magnitsky’s death, so this is
enough to bring charges against Silchenko,” he said.  Medvedev has made fighting corruption and improving the
rule of law a key objective as he seeks to attract foreign
investors. London-based Hermitage founder  William Browder 
accuses the Russian authorities of a whitewash over Magnitsky’s
death.  A doctor at Magnitsky’s prison confirmed that she had tried
repeatedly to get the lawyer transferred to hospital and met
with obstruction from Silchenko, said Borshchev. The refusal to
allow him medical treatment contravenes safeguards for
prisoners’ conditions under the Russian penal code, he said.  Charges Fabricated  The presidential inquiry, which will release its report
within the next couple of months, concluded that the  tax evasion 
charges against Magnitsky, who suffered from gallstone disease,
were fabricated, said Borshchev.  Irina Dudukina, a spokeswoman for the Interior Ministry’s
investigative arm, where Silchenko worked, couldn’t immediately
be reached for comment.  Medvedev told a press conference outside Moscow on May 18
that all guilty parties in the cases surrounding Magnitsky’s
“tragic” death, both Russian and foreign, should be punished.
“I want an objective and wide-ranging inquiry to be completed
quickly,” he said.  Russia put Browder on its international wanted list in
2009, seeking to question him on suspicion of conspiring with
Magnitsky to evade 500 million rubles ($18 million) of taxes.  Browder, 47, was the biggest foreign investor in  Russia 
when authorities revoked his visa in 2005, citing national
security concerns. He has been campaigning for the prosecution
of 60 Russian officials he blames for the death of Magnitsky.
Some EU and U.S. lawmakers are seeking to impose visa bans and
asset freezes on those officials.  Fraudulent Claim  Hermitage says Interior Ministry officials seized documents
from its Moscow offices in June 2007 that enabled them to re-
register ownership of its three Russian funds and fraudulently
claim $230 million in tax rebates in December 2007.  Alexander Bastrykin, who heads the federal Investigative
Committee, said in a September 2010 interview with  Rossiiskaya
Gazeta , the government’s official newspaper, that there was “no
reason” to believe Magnitsky’s death was connected to those
prosecuting the criminal case against him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  