-- 
New Zealand Rugby World Cup Organizer Says Fans Will Weather Stronger Kiwi

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-05-31T23:55:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/n-z-rugby-organizer-confident-fans-will-weather-soaring-kiwi.html
New Zealand organizers of the  Rugby
World Cup  this year are confident overseas fans will arrive
ready to spend even as the nation’s soaring currency erodes the
purchasing power of the  U.S. dollar  and British pound.  “I haven’t picked up any chatter from anywhere else in the
world that the currency is getting in the way,” Martin Snedden,
chief executive officer of Rugby New Zealand 2011 Ltd. said in
an interview yesterday in Wellington. “The numbers will get
there.”  Prime Minister John Key predicts spending by 85,000
overseas visitors in September and October will give the economy
a 0.3 percent boost in the second half and revive an economy
hobbled by a February earthquake in Christchurch. With 100 days
before the event starts,  New Zealand ’s dollar yesterday surged
to a record-high against its U.S. counterpart and is near a peak
against the pound, making services and entertainment more
expensive for visiting fans.  “The currency, I suppose, may have an effect in certain
countries,” Snedden said. “The reality is the cup goes for 45
days. If people make a commitment to be here for a decent length
of time then, by virtue of that fact, they are going to be
spending a reasonable amount of money.”  The so-called kiwi rose as high as 82.64 U.S. cents
yesterday, the most since exchange-rate controls were removed in
March 1985. It bought 82.48 cents as of 11:45 a.m. in Wellington.
The currency is worth 50.11 pence, nearing the 50.34 pence
record in December.  U.K.,  South Africa   Of the 85,000 visitors, about 19,500 are expected from the
U.K. and 6,900 from the U.S. and  Canada , Snedden said. Another
5,200 are projected to arrive from South Africa, whose currency
has fallen about 8 percent against the kiwi in the past year.  Still, the largest pool of visitors is 29,000 expected from
Australia.  New Zealand dollar  has declined against the
Australian currency in the past year and that adds to the
potential for more sales to that nation, Snedden said.  Analysis done by the organizers after the initial ticket
allocation in November showed that 30,000 foreign visitors will
come as part of official packages while the remaining 55,000
will be “free and independent travelers.” Of the latter group,
the average length of stay will be 23 days, they said.  The duration could change and spending may be less because
visitors typically respond to restrictions on their budget by
modifying their plans rather than canceling bookings, Brent
Thomas, retail director at  House of Travel Ltd ., said in an
interview from Christchurch.  Travel Plans  “There’s nothing to suggest we are not going to get the
numbers here or that they are not going to spend money,” said
Thomas, whose company has arranged travel packages for some of
the tournament sponsors and has New Zealand’s most visited
travel agency website, according to Hitwise.  Spending by international visitors has been falling as the
currency gained and the economies of the U.S.,  Japan  and the U.K.
remain sluggish. Spending in the year ended March 31 fell 6.1
percent to NZ$5.6 billion ($4.6 billion) even as the number of
arrivals was little changed, according to government figures.  The decline would have been deeper had it not been for 1.12
million, or 44 percent of all visitors, who come from  Australia .
New Zealand’s currency has fallen 4.9 percent against the
Australian dollar in the past year.  Focusing on spending by tourists may be too narrow a view
of the benefits of hosting the Rugby World Cup, Snedden said. In
January, central bank Governor Alan Bollard said the event will
add about NZ$700 million to the economy with scope for a greater
benefit to ripple through.  Quake Relocations  Since then, a magnitude 6.3 earthquake in Christchurch
killed more than 180 people and stalled spending in the nation’s
second-largest city.  Snedden’s team was forced to shift seven matches away from
the city because of wrecked hotels and grounds, an estimated
120,000 tickets of the 1.35 million total sales target have had
to be refunded. Those tickets are currently being reoffered
before a final sales phase begins in July, running through to
the tournament, which opens Sept. 9.  “The country is probably at a stage where it would like
something to be happy about,” Snedden said. The real value of
the tournament is in its “feel-good factor.”  New Zealand’s All Blacks rugby team is top ranked by the
International Rugby Board and favored by U.K. betting agency
Ladbrokes. It hasn’t won the four-yearly  World Cup  since it was
last in New Zealand in 1987.  Organizers are planning a festival of 600 separate events
throughout the country that will allow industries and regions to
promote themselves to visitors and potential customers. Another
program matching visitors with local company executives for
social and business exchanges is also in place.  “If we get the number of people coming to New Zealand as
we think will happen, then a lot of businesses will benefit,”
Snedden said. “We want to use the opportunity to showcase rugby
and to deliberately go about showing off the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  