-- 
NBA’s David Stern, Union’s Billy Hunter Plan Labor Talks in Miami Today

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-06-01T04:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/nba-s-stern-union-s-hunter-to-talk.html
National Basketball Association
Commissioner David Stern and players’ union Executive Director
Billy Hunter will meet today in Miami as they bid to keep the
league from becoming the second U.S. sport with a work stoppage.  “We told the players and the owners to bring their
negotiating talents to  South Beach ,” Stern told reporters in
Miami last night. The comment referenced LeBron James’s
announcement on a nationally televised show in July that he was
leaving the  Cleveland Cavaliers  for the  Miami Heat .  The first talks in about two weeks between the top
officials at the league and union show a sense of urgency ahead
of the June 30 expiration of the existing collective bargaining
agreement. Officials previously announced a pair of bargaining
sessions for June 7 and 8 in Dallas, site of Games 3, 4 and 5 of
the NBA Finals between the Heat and Mavericks.  “The question is whether the owners and players will be
bold enough to do what has to be done,” Stern said before Miami
defeated  Dallas  92-84 in the opening game of the best-of-seven
series last night.  The league’s most recent contract proposal included a
strict $45 million limit on what teams can spend on payroll. The
existing accord has what’s called a soft cap, which allows teams
to spend beyond the limit. Hunter has said the players
vehemently oppose a hard salary cap, which is used in the
 National Football League  and  National Hockey League .  The NBA hasn’t given any consideration to extending the
June 30 deadline, NBA Deputy Commissioner Adam Silver said
yesterday in an interview.  $275 Million Loss  Stern has said teams lost a collective $275 million this
season and that the new system must provide for well-managed
clubs to be able to compete for a championship and make a
profit.  NFL owners in March locked out players in a dispute over
how to share more than $9 billion in annual revenue.  NBA owners locked out players during the 1998-99 season,
when regular-season games were missed for the first time in
league history.  The union last week filed an unfair labor practice charge
against the NBA, saying the league made “harsh, inflexible and
grossly regressing ‘takeaway’ demands.” The league said it
complies with federal  labor laws .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  