-- 
NCR Sues Blockbuster Trust Over Right to Use Name on Movie-Rental Kiosks

-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-05-31T21:20:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/ncr-sues-blockbuster-trust-over-rights-to-use-name-on-movie-rental-kiosks.html
NCR Corp. sued a trust set up by
 Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ)  in a bid to continue licensing the company’s
name for movie-rental kiosks.  The Blockbuster Express name, design and related trademarks
are held by the BB 2009 trust, NCR said in the lawsuit filed in
U.S. District Court in Wilmington,  Delaware . Blockbuster, once
the largest video-rental chain, sold its assets to Dish Network
Corp. in April for about $320 million.  Dish rejected the NCR contract and sent the company a
termination letter, NCR said. NCR, based in Duluth,  Georgia ,
builds kiosks, often placed in grocery and convenience stores,
where customers can rent and drop off movies. The company, which
branded more than 9,000 kiosks with the Blockbuster name, pays
for use of the brand and collects all revenue from rentals.  “NCR has undertaken significant time and expense in
establishing and operating kiosks throughout the  United States 
branded with the trademarks, and has earned substantial revenues
from those operations,” Melanie Sharp, an attorney representing
NCR, said in court papers filed May 27.  Blockbuster transferred its interest in the trust to Dish
as part of its asset sale, according to court papers. NCR
contends that the trust wasn’t included in the sale because it
wasn’t part of Blockbuster’s bankruptcy filing. In addition,
only the trust has the right to terminate the license, not Dish,
NCR claims.  “We do not have any comment at this time as we are
reviewing NCR’s lawsuit,” Marc Lumpkin, a Dish spokesman, said
in an e-mail. Dish, based in Englewood, Colorado, is the second-
largest satellite-television provider in the U.S.  The case is  NCR Corp. (NCR)  v. BB 2009 Trust, 11-cv-481, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  