-- 
New York Sues U.S. Over Delaware River Basin Gas Drilling

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-05-31T22:47:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/new-york-to-sue-u-s-over-delaware-river-basin-gas-fracking-water-impact.html
The federal government hasn’t
adequately studied how natural gas drilling in the  Delaware 
River Basin would affect 9 million water drinkers in  New York ,
the state said in a lawsuit against the U.S.  A commission that oversees the river basin has proposed
regulations that will allow a drilling procedure known as
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, at 15,000 to 18,000 gas wells
without a full environmental review, New York Attorney General
 Eric Schneiderman  said in an e-mailed statement. The attorney
general filed a complaint today in federal court in Brooklyn,
New York, seeking to halt the regulations until the commission
complies with the National Environmental Policy Act’s
requirement for a full review of all health and safety risks.  “The welfare of those living near the Delaware River
Basin, as well as the millions of New Yorkers who rely on its
pure drinking water each day, will not be ignored,”
Schneiderman said. The U.S. should consider not authorizing
development in the part of the river basin that includes  New
York City ’s watershed, he said.  The Delaware River Basin Commission, an authority which
oversees activities in the gas-rich area known as the Marcellus
Shale, has a pending application from XTO Energy Inc., a unit of
Exxon Mobil Corp., to explore in the area, and has refused to
produce a full environmental impact assessment, according to
Schneiderman’s complaint.  The Delaware River Basin covers 58 percent of the land area
of New York City’s watershed west of the  Hudson River , according
to Schneiderman’s statement. The region targeted for exploration
lie within the geographic formation known as the Marcellus
Shale, and is protected by a 50 year-old agreement among the
federal government and the states of New York,  New Jersey  and
Delaware, according to the complaint.  Heavy Metals  Fracking could contaminate water supplies with radioactive
materials, heavy metals, methane and other chemicals, according
to the complaint.  New York City has spent almost $1.5 billion to protect the
drinking water that flows from the watershed west of the Hudson,
Schneiderman said in the complaint. The money has gone to buying
land to serve as a buffer for pollutants, upgrading sewage
plants and regulating human activities. If the city has to
filter, as it already does with water coming from east of the
Hudson, it would cost more than $10 billion initially, with
annual maintenance costs exceeding $100 million, according to
the complaint.  National Park Service  The lawsuit names as defendants Lisa P. Jackson,
administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and
Kenneth Salazar, secretary of the Interior Department. Other
involved federal agencies include the U.S.  Army Corps  of
Engineers, the National Park Service, the U.S. Fish & Wildlife
Service and the Environmental Protection Agency.  Kate Kelly, an Interior Department spokeswoman, said the
agency had no immediate comment.  Betsaida Alcantara, an EPA spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment  A coalition that includes  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ,
Chesapeake Energy Corp. and XTO Energy that supports drilling in
the Marcellus Shale said in a statement that the lawsuit isn’t
necessary, and will bring no environmental benefit.  “However, increasing the responsible development of clean-
burning American natural gas will continue to create thousands
of good-paying jobs while helping to drive down our nation’s
dangerous dependence on energy from unstable and unfriendly
regions of the world,” the Marcellus Shale Coalition said.  High-Pressure Jets  Fracking refers to a process that shoots high-pressure jets
of water, sand and chemicals underground to crack open gas-rich
rock formations.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s largest company by market
value, announced May 25 that it’s planning an advertising
campaign to defend fracking, which landowners and environmental
groups say is contaminating drinking water.  XTO Energy applied for gas exploration in a drainage area
of the Upper Delaware River in May 2010, and public comments are
scheduled for June, according to the complaint.  The company’s plan may harm Oquaga Creek, “a  stream  known
for excellent trout fishing, within Broome County, New York,”
according to the complaint.  Alan Jeffers , an Exxon spokesman, and Thomas Covington, a
spokesman for XTO Energy, didn’t immediately return calls for
comment.  Environmental Impact Assessments  The Delaware River Basin Commission stopped doing
environmental impact assessments in 1980 because it lacked
funds, and says it isn’t subject to federal law calling for such
reviews, according to Schneiderman’s complaint.  More than 2,000 natural gas wells have been drilled in
 Pennsylvania , resulting in “hundreds of violations of water
pollution laws,” Schneiderman said in the complaint, citing an
April 19 blowout of a natural gas well owned by Chesapeake
Energy.  The case is New York v. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, 11-
cv-2599, U.S District Court, Eastern District of New York
( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 