-- 
Former Egypt Bank Chairman Arraigned on Charges of Assaulting Maid in U.S.

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-06-01T17:47:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/new-york-police-arrest-former-egyptian-bank-chairman-on-sex-abuse-charges.html
The former chairman of  Egypt ’s Bank
of Alexandria was held overnight at New York’s Riker’s Island
jail complex after being arraigned in  Manhattan  on charges of
sexually abusing a maid at the Pierre Hotel in New York.  Manhattan judge Gerald Lebovits around midnight last night
set bail for Mahmoud Abdel Salam Omar, chairman of El-Mex
Salines, at $50,000 bond or $25,000 cash, according to the
Manhattan District Attorney’s office. Omar also was ordered to
surrender his travel documents, prosecutors said.  Omar, 72, was taken overnight to Riker’s Island,  New York
City ’s main jail complex, located off the shore of northern
Queens opposite  LaGuardia Airport , Sharman Stein, a spokeswoman
for the New York City Department of Correction, said in an
interview. He can post bail there, she said. Riker’s is where
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the former International Monetary Fund
chief, was locked up last month on charges of sexual assault and
attempted rape against a Midtown Manhattan hotel maid.  Unlike Strauss-Kahn, Omar is accused of “groping or
molestation which, although serious, doesn’t carry with it the
same penalties under the law,” Fred Sosinky, a New York defense
attorney who isn’t involved in the case, said in an interview.  Omar was arrested May 30 after a 44-year-old female
housekeeper alleged he attacked her the day before, according to
a police spokesman.  Midtown Hotel  Officers were called to the hotel in Midtown Manhattan
after she informed security of an alleged incident when she went
to Omar’s room after he requested tissues. Prosecutors said Omar
is 72; police previously said 74.  Omar “wrapped his arms tightly around the informant’s body
and while holding the informant, kissed the informant’s neck and
lips,” Detective Efrain Curet said in the criminal complaint.
Omar grabbed the maid a second time and groped her, according to
the criminal complaint.  Police charged Omar with sexual abuse in the first degree,
sexual abuse in the third degree and forcible touching. He
allegedly asked the maid for her telephone number and she gave a
false one before leaving the room, police said. If convicted of
the top charge, he faces as long as seven years behind bars.  Omar is scheduled to next appear in court June 3, possibly
to see if a grand jury votes for indictment and a new lawyer,
according to prosecutors. The attorney who represented him last
night, Elizabeth Beal, didn’t immediately return a call for
comment.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, is due back in court June 6. He was
indicted on charges of first-degree criminal sex act, attempted
rape and sexual abuse in the first degree. The top charges, for
forced oral sex, are punishable by as long as 25 years in
prison. His lawyer has said he denies the charges.  Strauss-Kahn Bail  Strauss-Kahn was arrested May 14 and on May 16 ordered held
without bail by Manhattan Criminal Court Judge Melissa Jackson
after prosecutors said he was a flight risk. He was later
granted bail by New York State Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus.  Strauss-Kahn was released after posting $1 million cash
bail and $5 million bond, and surrendering his passport. He must
wear an electronic monitoring bracelet and is under 24-hour
armed guard at a rented townhouse in  Lower Manhattan .  Omar is being held at the West Facility at Rikers Island,
according to Stein. It is one of about 10 separate jails on 415
acres. West Facility, the same jail where Strauss-Kahn was held,
primarily houses inmates with contagious diseases and can also
be used for prisoners who need to be separated from others,
Stephen Morello, another Correction Department spokesman, said
last month.  Egyptian American Bank  Omar is the former chairman of the Egyptian American Bank
and the Federation of Egyptian Banks, according to the  El-Mex
Salines company website.   The Pierre, where room rates start at $776 a night
according to its website, is part of the Taj Group of Hotels.
The hotel said it is cooperating with police.  The “Pierre’s priority is the safety of the guests and our
staff,” the hotel said in a statement read over the telephone.
“We take all complaints very seriously and investigate it
thoroughly.”  The hotel suspended a supervisor who stopped the maid from
immediately filing a complaint, the  New York  Daily News reported
yesterday.  Osama Abdel Aziz, the executive manager at El-Mex, couldn’t
be immediately reached for comment and calls to the company went
unanswered yesterday. Nobody was immediately available for
comment at Bank of Alexandria.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 