-- 
Greek Aid Package to Be Decided by End of June, Juncker Says

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-05-31T18:12:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/new-aid-package-for-greece-to-be-decided-by-end-of-june-eu-s-juncker-says.html
European Union leaders will decide on
additional aid for  Greece  by the end of June and have ruled out
a “total restructuring” of the nation’s debt, said  Jean-Claude Juncker , head of the group of euro-area finance ministers.  Inspectors from the EU, the  International Monetary Fund  and
the  European Central Bank  are set to wrap up a review of
Greece’s progress in meeting the terms of last year’s 110
billion-euro ($158 billion) bailout in the next few days. The EU
will then formulate its plan for further aid to Greece, which
remains shut out of financial markets a year after the rescue.  “We are waiting for their final judgment,” Juncker, who
is also Luxembourg’s prime minister, said yesterday in Paris
after meeting with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy . “Their
position will partly determine our position, so it’s too early.
We will try to solve the Greek problem by the end of June.”  Under the terms of the rescue package, Greece was due to
return to financial markets and sell about 30 billion euros of
bonds next year. With its 10-year bonds yielding 16.4 percent,
more than twice that of the time of the bailout, the EU has
indicated Greece will need more aid to plug its financing gap.
The IMF has threatened to withhold its share of the payments
until the EU explains how Greece will be funded.  If, as expected, it turns out that Greece isn’t meeting the
program’s conditions, euro-region countries must see what steps
Greece can undertake to get back on track in addition to what
it’s doing already, a German Finance Ministry spokesman said
today, speaking on customary condition of anonymity.  Rehn Comments  As head of the group of euro-area finance ministers,
Juncker “certainly knows what he is talking about,” European
Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn said
today in an interview in  New York . Greek “debt restructuring is
not on the table,” he said in the television interview.  EU and ECB officials remain divided over how to aid Greece,
with some European leaders calling for new loans and a debt
“reprofiling” -- convincing bondholders to voluntarily accept
an extension of maturities.  Germany  is considering dropping its
demand for an early rescheduling of Greek bonds, the Wall Street
Journal reported today, citing people familiar with the matter
whom it didn’t identify.  “The problem of the private-sector involvement will be
examined with all the attention required,” Juncker said
yesterday. Senior aides to European finance ministers are due to
discuss Greece at a previously scheduled meeting tomorrow in
Vienna.  The euro rose to a three-week high against the dollar on
optimism officials will agree on further Greek aid before paring
gains and trading at $1.4392 at 2:17 p.m. in Brussels, up 0.8
percent on the day.  Funding Bill  ECB officials have said “reprofiling” is tantamount to
default and would prompt the Frankfurt-based central bank to
refuse to accept Greek bonds as collateral in their emergency
funding operations, wiping out the capital of the Greek banking
system, the biggest holder of the country’s bonds.  The EU and IMF will have to put up another 30 billion euros
in loans to tide Greece over next year with the rest of its
2012-2013 financing needs covered by revenue from asset sales
and other measures, the Financial Times reported yesterday,
citing ECB Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi.  The financial problems that are being experienced in  Europe 
go “way beyond” Greece and a reorganization of the continent’s
banking system is necessary, Laurence D. Fink, chief executive
officer of BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest money manager,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview in  Hong Kong  today. “I
find it very difficult to restructure Greece without the
understanding that we’re probably going to have to restructure
Ireland and restructure  Portugal .”  Time Running Out  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  has announced an
additional 6 billion euros of budget cuts for this year to meet
the bailout goal of shrinking the deficit to 7.5 percent of
gross domestic product. The government also pledged to speed 50
billion euros of state asset sales, mostly real estate, to pay
down debt, which is set to reach almost 160 percent of GDP this
year, the highest in the euro’s history.  The EU and IMF have called on Papandreou to secure multi-
party support for the measures, which are part of a broader
four-year austerity package. The country’s main opposition
parties rejected the plan in a meeting with Papandreou on May
27. EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said
after the meeting that it was “essential” for all parties to
support the program and “time was running out.”  Antonis Samaras, head of  New Democracy , Greece’s largest
opposition party, said today that the terms of the Greek bailout
must be renegotiated.  “We aren’t talking about renegotiating the targets but the
interim stages and ways to achieve these,” Samaras said in an
interview with state-run NET TV. He said he backed Papandreou’s
plans to fight  tax evasion  and sell state assets, though he
called for tax cuts to stimulate economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  