-- 
No Love Lost for U.S. Debt as Bond Dealers Share Fewer Treasuries With Fed

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-05-31T17:11:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/no-love-lost-for-u-s-debt-as-bond-dealers-share-fewer-treasuries-with-fed.html
The world’s biggest bond dealers are
finding fewer Treasuries to sell to the  Federal Reserve  as its
$600 billion purchase program nears an end, a signal of rising
demand even as the largest buyer steps away.  The two-week moving average of bond dealers’ submissions
for sales to the Fed has fallen 37 percent to $17 billion a day
from the $27.3 billion peak offered in November, according to
Bloomberg data. Price swings have diminished to levels last seen
before the financial crisis began in 2007, helping bonds
outperform stocks this month by the most since July.  Demand for government debt is increasing even as the
central bank prepares to conclude its purchases, the size of the
market has doubled to $9.1 trillion and Republicans in Congress
spar with President  Barack Obama  over the nation’s debt ceiling.
By offering fewer bonds to the Fed, dealers are signaling that
any rise in yields after the end of so-called quantitative
easing will be limited and that Obama faces no impediment to
funding the $1.5 trillion  budget deficit .  “The Fed’s QE2 program finally appears to be exhausting
the supply of Treasuries that can easily come out of investor
portfolios, a bullish sign for the market,” said Terry Belton,
the global head of fixed-income and foreign-exchange research at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., one of the 20 primary dealers who trade
debt with the central bank.  Submissions Drop  The Fed began the second round of asset purchases, known as
QE2, on Nov. 10 after buying $1.7 trillion in securities through
last year, increasing the amount of money in circulation to
prevent deflation. The Fed’s purchases are due to end next
month. Dealers have submitted more than $2.4 trillion in
Treasuries to the Fed over the past six months.  While QE2 succeeded in avoiding deflation, investors remain
concerned about the strength of the economy, which grew at a 1.8
percent annual pace in the first quarter, the slowest rate since
the three months ended June 30.  U.S. government securities have returned 1.4 percent in
May, including reinvested interest, following a 1.15 percent
gain in April, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 2.4 percent this month and the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI commodity index lost 7.9 percent.  Bonds rose last week, driving the yield on the benchmark
10-year note to as low as 3.05 percent, the least since Dec. 7.
The price of the security due in May 2021 increased 19/32, or
$5.94 per $1,000 face amount to 100 13/32. Ten-year yields fell
seven basis points to 3.07 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The yield was little changed at 3.06 percent at
1:09 a.m. in  New York .  When Yields Rise  Investors should buy Treasuries when yields rise, because
the U.S. will grow an average of two percent to three percent
for the next few years, said Rick Rieder, chief investment
officer of fixed income at New York-based BlackRock Inc., the
world’s largest money manager, overseeing $3.45 trillion.  “There is a need for fixed income given the atmosphere,”
Rieder said. “Yields are at the low end of the range, but
Treasury rates could stay in this low range for years as the
economy grinds along.”  Yields on 10-year notes plunged from the high this year of
3.77 percent on Feb. 9 on signs that rising energy and food
costs will restrain the recovery from the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression.  The decline should end at 3 percent as U.S. employment
improves and QE2 ends, according to  William Cunningham , the co-
head of global active fixed income in  Boston  at  State Street
Global Advisors , which oversees $2.1 trillion.  Higher Rates  Payrolls expanded by 244,000 in April, the biggest gain
since May 2010, after a revised 221,000 increase the prior
month, the Labor Department said May 6. Employment rose by
185,000 jobs in May, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists before the June 3 report.  “If the employment picture keeps chugging along as it is,
then it will drag rates higher,” Cunningham said in an
interview in New York on May 25. “Yields will gradually go up
this year.”  Cunningham expects the 10-year yield to end the year in the
3.5 percent to 3.75 percent range.  Demand for Treasuries has been boosted as regulators try to
strengthen the global banking system by requiring financial
institutions reduce risks and hold more of the safest assets
after about $2.01 trillion in writedowns and losses since the
start of 2007. Banks owned a record $1.69 trillion of U.S.
government-related debt in the week ended May 4, Fed data show.  Repo Rates  Treasuries are in such short supply in the $4.9 trillion-a-
day repurchase agreement market used by dealers to finance their
holdings that investors are lending cash for next to nothing to
obtain the bonds. The average level of overnight general
collateral repo rates fell as low as 0.01 percent on May 5.
About a third of government securities transactions in the repo
market trade below zero percent, according to Barclays Plc data.  Repo rates may move further below the Federal funds rate
when the central bank begins lifting borrowing costs. The Fed’s
so-called effective rate, a weighted average of trades between
major brokers, was 0.09 percent on May 26, according to ICAP Plc
data.  “Everybody wants more collateral and Treasuries are the
best collateral in the world,” according to Stanford University
professor  Darrell Duffie , who serves as a member of the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York’s financial advisory roundtable.  “You’d think that the world would be awash in Treasuries
as the U.S. is issuing more than they ever have,” said Duffie,
who studies credit risk, asset pricing and the over-the-counter
derivatives as the Stanford Graduate School of Business’s Dean
Witter Distinguished Professor of Finance. “But everybody wants
them.”  Debt Ceiling  A congressional standoff on raising the country’s debt
ceiling has increased demand for bills. Government authorities
have curtailed short-term debt sales to conserve borrowing
capacity and avoid breaching the Congressionally-mandated
threshold of $14.3 trillion.  The reduction has left U.S. six-month bill rates hovering
near record lows of 0.005 percent.  Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  has
said his party wants “significant” cuts in spending and no tax
increases as a condition for raising the limit. House Speaker
 John Boehner , a Republican from  Ohio , said Congress needs to
pair an increase with spending cuts and changes to the nation’s
“broken” budget process.  “At some point it’s clear to me that we have to increase
the debt ceiling,” Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said May 15 on
CBS’s “Face the Nation.” “And as we do, we’re going to do it
in a way that addresses America’s long-term fiscal challenges.”  Auction Demand  Obama said in a segment for the show taped May 11 in
 Washington  that failing to raise the ceiling may disrupt the
global financial system. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
said he has taken steps to prevent a federal default until Aug.
2, using accounting measures that involve two retirement funds.  So far, there’s been no sign of waning demand for
government debt that increased by about 50 percent as Obama
boosted spending to pull the economy out of the recession that
probably ended in the third quarter of 2009. The Treasury has
received $3 in bids for every dollar auctioned this year, up
from last year’s record $2.99, Treasury data show. The U.S. has
sold $895 billion of notes and bonds this year, compared with
$1.003 trillion at this time in 2010.  Treasuries have become more desirable as price swings
declined. The Merrill Option Volatility Estimate, or MOVE, index
fell to 74.80 basis points on April 25, within 0.7 of its lowest
level since July 2007. The index is down from a 12-month high of
125.2 on Dec. 15.  Biggest Buyer  The Fed is responsible for some of the decline. QE2 made it
the biggest owner of  U.S. government debt , with holdings of
$896.7 billion overtaking  China ’s $895.6 billion in November,
according to Treasury and central bank data.  Under the program, the central bank has purchased $675
billion since Nov. 12, mostly from dealers. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said he’ll maintain record stimulus until job
growth accelerates and the recovery is robust enough to
withstand tighter credit.  Inflation is barely eroding the value of fixed-income
securities as the recovery slows. The Fed’s preferred measure of
price increases, the so-called core inflation reading that
excludes food and energy, was 1 percent for the 12 months ended
April, the Commerce Department said on May 27.  The Washington-based  International Monetary Fund  lowered
its forecast for U.S. growth this year, predicting the economy
will expand 2.8 percent this year, down from the 3 percent
projected in January.  “Yields are going to remain around these levels in a range
for some time,” said Bret Barker, an interest-rate analyst at
Los Angeles-based TCW Group Inc., which manages about $115
billion in assets. “The market is running with the slow growth
story right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  