-- 
Nokia Slumps to Lowest in 13 Years After Cutting Forecasts

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-05-31T13:46:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/nokia-lowers-devices-services-second-quarter-fy-2011-outlook.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  slumped to the lowest price
in 13 years in Helsinki trading after cutting its forecasts for
the devices and services unit on lower prices and competition
from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Second-quarter sales at the devices and services division
will be “substantially” less than its projected range of 6.1
billion euros ($8.8 billion) to 6.6 billion euros, Espoo,
Finland-based Nokia said today. The unit’s operating margin will
also fall short of a forecast range, the company said.  Nokia’s stock has lost about three quarters of its value
since Apple introduced the iPhone in 2007, raising consumer
expectations for handsets that can surf the Web and show movies.
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop turned to Microsoft Corp.’s
Windows Phone 7 after determining that its own Symbian and MeeGo
systems couldn’t keep up with the iPhone and Google’s Android,
the fastest-growing smartphone platform.  “They are forced to discount a lot,” said  Lee Simpson , an
analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in  London  with a
“sell” rating on Nokia’s stock. “No-one wants these handsets.
This is the real terrible year for these guys.”  Nokia dropped as much as 86 cents, or 15 percent, to 4.90
euros, the lowest intraday price since February 1998. The stock
traded at 4.92 euros as of 4:44 p.m. in Helsinki and has
declined 36 percent this year, cutting the company’s market
value to 18.4 billion euros.  Nokia was overtaken last quarter by Cupertino, California-
based Apple as the largest maker of mobile phones by revenue. On
Feb. 11, the day Nokia struck its agreement with Microsoft, the
Finnish company’s shares fell 14 percent.  Market Share Losses  “The new models based on Windows Mobile should get on the
market not earlier than December,” said Saverio Papagno, an
analyst at AZ Fund Management in Luxembourg. “In the meantime
Nokia is suffering from Apple and Google’s competition,
especially in the consumer market.”  Nokia’s smartphone market share fell to 30.8 percent at the
end of last year, 20 percentage points lower than the level at
the iPhone’s introduction, according to researcher Gartner Inc.  Nokia said today it’s no longer appropriate to provide
full-year targets. The company called 2011 and 2012 “transition
years” in its Feb. 11 statement.  First-quarter handset revenue rose 6.4 percent to 7.09
billion euros, surpassed for the first time by iPhone sales of
$12.3 billion in the period.  “Strategy transitions are difficult,” Elop said today.
“We must accelerate the pace of our transition.” The CEO said
he has “increased confidence” that Nokia will ship its first
Nokia product with the  Windows operating system  in the fourth
quarter 2011.  Job Cuts  On April 27, Nokia said it will eliminate 7,000 jobs and
transfer its Symbian software development to  Accenture Plc (ACN)  in
the Finnish company’s biggest reorganization in two decades. The
7,000 positions account for almost 12 percent of Nokia’s
workforce, excluding those employed at a venture with Siemens AG
and at the Navteq maps division.  The Finnish company said today it is “taking immediate
action to address the issues” and that its strategic objectives
and targets remain unchanged. The company said it has “taken
price actions on its current smartphone portfolio,” and is
“intensifying its focus on retail point-of-sales marketing.”  The company reiterated it plans to slash 1 billion euros in
expenses at the handset business by 2013 and said it still
targets sales in the devices and services business to grow
faster than the market after its revamp and the division’s non-
IFRS operating margin to be 10 percent or more.  -- With assistance from Chiara Remondini in Milan and  Jonathan Browning  in London. Editor: Simon Thiel,  Kenneth Wong .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  