-- 
Nokia’s Slump Quickens as Consumers Shun Outmoded Handsets

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g ,   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-06-01T07:30:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/nokia-s-stock-drop-quickens-under-elop-as-consumers-shun-outmoded-phones.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  replaced Chief Executive
Officer  Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo  last year after the stock sank 55
percent during his four-year tenure. Successor Stephen Elop has
presided over a 37 percent loss in just eight months.  The Finnish company yesterday scrapped its full-year sales
and margin forecasts for handsets and services and said sales at
the unit would “substantially” fall short of its projected
range this quarter. The stock slumped 18 percent to a 13-year
low, exceeding the 14 percent slide on Feb. 11, when Elop
announced a deal to adopt  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s operating system.  Elop, 47, told investors yesterday he has “increased
confidence” that Nokia can ship its first phone based on
Windows Phone 7 in the final quarter. Before that happens, the
CEO still has to cope with consumers fleeing its Symbian
handsets, based on the operating system Nokia decided to abandon
after failing to keep up with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android, the fastest-growing smartphone platform.  “No question he inherited a situation considerably worse
than he’d anticipated,” said Ben Wood, a London-based analyst
at CCS Insight, in a telephone interview. “Common courtesy
would dictate that they’d give him a year, but I think the
critical point will be when the new strategy is implemented in
2012. That’s when he absolutely needs to deliver.”  Wiped Out  Nokia lost as much as 5.1 percent and traded at 4.62 euros,
or 2.7 percent lower, at 10:11 a.m. in Helsinki, valuing the
Espoo, Finland-based company at 17.4 billion euros ($25
billion). Analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Sanford C
Bernstein & Co. and Nordea Bank AB cut their ratings on the
stock.  The decline yesterday took Nokia to the lowest level since
February 1998 and erased the stock’s gains since the boom for
shares of technology and Internet companies in 1999 and 2000.  Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. (2038) , the contract
manufacturer of handsets that counts Nokia as its biggest
customer, fell as much as 6.4 percent in Hong Kong trading
today.  Nokia has lost about three-quarters of its value since
Apple’s 2007 introduction of the iPhone, which raised consumer
expectations for handsets that can handle corporate e-mail and
play movies. Apple has a market value of $320 billion, while  HTC
Corp. (2498) , the largest maker of handsets using Android and Microsoft
operating systems, is valued at $35.6 billion.  HTC, Samsung  Nokia’s smartphone market share has fallen by half, to 25.5
percent in the first quarter from 50.8 percent in the second
quarter of 2007, according to Gartner Inc. Its first-quarter
handset revenue rose 6.4 percent to 7.09 billion euros,
surpassed for the first time by iPhone sales of $12.3 billion.  In  Frankfurt  near the Zeil main shopping street, an outlet
of The Phone House had 31 handsets on display, including 16
Nokia models, although many were offered as part of cheaper
prepaid packages.  “The design is totally OK, but then I downloaded apps and
the latest software, and realized that it’s good for calling but
that’s about it,” said Mansur Sharifi, a 35-year-old marketing
executive in Frankfurt, who plans to ditch his Nokia E71 for an
iPhone. “Nokia hasn’t gotten it right anymore in the last few
years. HTC is very good at that, Samsung as well.”  U.K. consumers are also less likely to pick up a Nokia
phone, a survey by  Enders Analysis  in April showed. About 16
percent of individuals polled said they would purchase a Nokia
device in 2011, compared with 27 percent last year.  China ,  India   Even in emerging markets such as China, where lower-priced
handsets are in demand from rural populations, Nokia faces
intensifying rivalry from local suppliers that is eating into
average selling prices, the company said yesterday. Starting
this quarter, Nokia will ship the 45-euro dual-SIM C2-00, about
half a year later than the model’s planned introduction.  “We knew about the lack of dual-SIM phones in India --
what’s new is that China has been problematic on account of
Android,” said  Michael Schroeder , an analyst at FIM Bank in
Helsinki, who has a “‘reduce” rating on Nokia. “It’s looking
worrying on the feature phone side, where Nokia has
traditionally been strong. That adds to the risk that the
company becomes marginalized across the range.”  Second-quarter sales for devices and services will be
“substantially” less than its projected range of 6.1 billion
euros to 6.6 billion euros, Nokia said yesterday. The unit’s
operating margin will fall short of a forecast range of 6
percent to 9 percent and will be about breakeven, it said.  ‘Icy Water’  “They’ve jumped into the icy water,” said  Alexander Peterc , a London-based analyst with Exane BNP Paribas. “They
could have worked on Windows in the background and provided
moral support to Symbian while it was the only platform they had
to offer. What if the Windows phone doesn’t sell?”  Nokia said yesterday it started shipping the X7 and E6
smartphones that run the updated Symbian Anna operating system.
Nokia is transferring its Symbian software development to
 Accenture Plc (ACN)  as part of a program to eliminate 7,000 positions
that was announced in April.  “We must accelerate the pace of our transition,” Elop
told investors on a conference call yesterday. “Strategy
transitions are difficult.”  Once Finland’s largest company by market value, Nokia
yesterday slid to fourth place on the Nasdaq OMX Helsinki index
behind Fortum Oyj, the country’s biggest utility.  At $25 billion, the stock has reached its break-up value,
Bank of America Corp. Merrill Lynch analysts led by Andrew Griffin wrote in a note today. Nokia’s uncertain outlook could
turn potential bidders away, Exane BNP Paribas’s Peterc and FIM
Bank’s Schroeder say. As recently as May 16, Nokia rebutted
speculation that it may sell the mobile-phone unit to Microsoft.  “A company with such uncertain and negative prospects
isn’t a particularly alluring takeover target,” Schroeder said.
“Still, everything has its price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.netvroot @bloomberg.net. 