-- 
Noreco Says Huntington Cost, Schedule Not Fixed Due to Sevan

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-05-31T16:24:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/noreco-says-huntington-cost-schedule-not-fixed-due-to-sevan.html
Norwegian Energy Co. ASA , a
Stavanger-based oil producer, said the costs and schedule for
the development of its U.K. Huntington oil field are unsure due
to  Sevan Marine ASA (SEVAN) ’s financing issues.  Noreco and EON AG, the operator of the Huntington field,
have a lease agreement with Sevan Marine for its floating
production, storage and offloading vessel, Sevan Voyageur.
Production is scheduled to start in the first quarter of 2012.  Sevan last week failed to complete a share sale that would
have provided equity needed to avoid a breach of liquidity
covenants on debt. The company is trying to refinance, a process
that will take “some time,” it said today.  The situation with Sevan “is bringing uncertainty with
regards to schedule and costs,” Jan Petter Stiff, a Noreco
spokesman, said today by phone. “We feel we have a very strong
position in the worse case, that is to say bankruptcy. The
partnership has the right to buy the unit under certain
conditions.”  Stiff declined to specify what the conditions were for the
partners on the Huntington license to buy the vessel and how
Noreco would finance such a deal.  Sevan last week raised the expected upgrade costs on Sevan
Voyageur to $135 million from $90 million. It then said the unit
would be delivered at the end of the fourth quarter, three
months later than scheduled, according to Carnegie ASA.  “We’re sticking to the agreement we have and operate on
the basis that it will proceed as planned -- until we’ve been
informed otherwise there’s no reason for us to have any
extraordinary contact with” Sevan, Stiff said.  The Huntington field is located in license P1114 in the
U.K. part of the central  North Sea . EON owns 25 percent of the
license, while Noreco holds 20 percent,  Premier Oil Plc (PMO)  owns 40
percent and  Carrizo Oil & Gas Inc. (CRZO)  15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  