-- 
Obama Is Said to Pick Former Edison CEO Bryson as Next Commerce Secretary

-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 5 1 5 2 6 1 7 ]   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   [ ]   a n d   [ b n : P R S N = 5 7 0 8 5 9 8 ]   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   [ ]
-- 
2011-05-31T16:44:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/obama-is-said-to-pick-former-edison-ceo-bryson-as-next-commerce-secretary.html
     May 31 (Bloomberg) --President  Barack Obama  will nominate
John Bryson, former chief executive officer of  Edison
International (EIX) , to be the next U.S. commerce secretary, an
administration official said.  Obama is set to announce Bryson’s nomination later today,
the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity before the
president’s appearance. If confirmed by the Senate, Bryson, 67,
would replace Secretary Gary Locke, who Obama has nominated as
U.S. ambassador to  China .  Bryson would take over a department that plays the lead
role in fulfilling Obama’s goal of doubling U.S. exports from
$1.57 trillion in 2009 to $3.14 trillion a year by the end of
2014, according to the Economic Report of the President to
Congress.  The president has said development of clean and renewable
energy industries in the U.S. is key to keeping the nation
competitive in the global economy and increasing exports.
Bryson’s background complements that emphasis.  Since last September, Bryson has been chairman of
BrightSource Energy Inc., an Oakland, California-based developer
of solar  power plants . BrightSource, which counts Google Inc.
among its investors, is seeking to use solar-thermal technology
to generate capacity equal to 11 nuclear power plants.  Mojave Project  Earlier this year the company tapped a $1.6 billion loan
from the U.S. government to build its Ivanpah project across
3,600 acres in the Mojave Desert. Construction started in
October, and the facility will generate 392 megawatts of power.  The company filed last month to raise $250 million in an
initial public offering.  The choice of a business executive for the commerce post is
the latest move by Obama to repair relations between the White
House and the business community. After sparring for much of
last year over Obama’s health-care and financial regulatory
overhauls, Obama has sought to reach out to more CEOs and
business groups including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which
spent more than $30 million on the 2010 congressional elections
in which Republicans won control of the  House of
Representatives .  Since then, the president named General Electric Co. CEO
 Jeffrey Immelt , a self-described Republican, to lead his outside
panel of economic advisers in January and that same month
appointed former JP Morgan executive Bill Daley to serve as his
chief of staff.  Reorganization  The administration also is conducting an organizational
review aimed at making government trade operations more
efficient. Obama directed Jeffrey Zients, the administration’s
chief performance officer, to look at an executive branch
restructuring, which may include folding the U.S Trade
Representative’s office into the Commerce Department. Zients is
due to send the president his recommendations by June 9.  Bryson, a New York native educated at  Stanford University 
in  Palo Alto ,  California , and Yale Law School, joined  Edison
International  in 1984 and was named chief executive in October
1990. After serving more than 17 years at the helm, Bryson
retired in 2008.  Bryson helped steer Edison’s electric utility, the largest
in the state, through the California energy crisis of 2000 and
2001 that bankrupted larger rival Pacific Gas & Electric, a unit
of San Francisco-based PG&E Corp. Edison was forced to sell most
of its overseas assets after its debt rating declined in part
due to the crisis.  Environmental Background  Before joining Edison, Bryson helped found the  Natural
Resources Defense Council , an environmental advocacy
organization. The group’s president,  Frances Beinecke , released
a statement today calling Bryson “a visionary leader in
promoting a clean environment and a strong economy.”  From 1979 to 1982, Bryson was president of the California
Public Utilities Commission, where he separated utility profits
from power use rates in an effort to spur California utilities
to promote energy conservation.  He served on the board of directors for  Boeing Co. (BA) , the
world’s largest aerospace company, since 1995, and at  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) , the world’s largest media company, since 2000,
according to the companies’ websites.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  