-- 
Klain: Give Obama a Victory Lap for Auto Rescue

-- B y   R o n   K l a i n
-- 
2011-05-31T19:14:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/obama-deserves-a-victory-lap-for-automaker-rescue-commentary-by-ron-klain.html
This past weekend, my hometown marked
the 100th anniversary of its great civic festival, the
Indianapolis 500. There are many ways to explain the race’s
enduring appeal -- the pageantry, the drivers, the traditions --
but what makes it truly compelling is the cars: their roaring
engines, the constant innovation, the new technologies that set
records for speed.  Six hundred miles from the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, at
the White House, cars also were very much front and center over
the weekend. With the president in Europe, the administration
was paying homage to cars here at home, rolling out (pardon the
pun) Vice President Joseph Biden to visit an auto dealership in
 New Hampshire  and to deliver a car-themed radio address, and
dispatching other officials to  Detroit  to celebrate Chrysler
Group LLC’s early repayment of $6 billion in federal loan
guarantees. President  Barack Obama  will do his part June 3, when
he visits a Chrysler plant in Toledo,  Ohio .  Of all the policy challenges I saw Obama tackle in my two
years in the White House, none was more complex than turning
around the U.S. auto industry. When the president took office,
the industry was in free fall. Sales of cars and trucks, which
had topped 17 million in 2006, fell to 10.6 million in 2009. Two
of America’s three major automakers were insolvent, kept alive
by weekly inflows of federal cash. U.S. automakers had an
unsustainable cost structure, were badly trailing their foreign
competitors in the production of fuel-efficient and electric
vehicles, and seemed unable to make the hard choices needed to
arrest their downward spiral.  Painful Conditions  The course the president chose was unexpected and risky.
Most Americans remember that the administration decided to "bail
out" the car companies -- and indeed, the president did extend
more loans and support to the industry. But he attached to the
aid a series of controversial and painful conditions that ended
business as usual in Detroit.  First, he did what the board of  General Motors Co. (GM)  lacked
the resolve or independence to do: fire Chief Executive Officer
Rick Wagoner. This angered Detroit’s civic leaders and Obama’s
biggest ally in  Michigan , Governor Jennifer Granholm. Then, in a
move that stunned administration allies, the president forced GM
and Chrysler into bankruptcy, putting them through a painful
restructuring that forced many key constituents to accept deep
cuts -- with layoffs, reduced payments to creditors and massive
reductions in supplier support -- as a precondition of
government funding for the industry’s future.  Auto Dealers Cut  The administration even imposed deep cuts on one of
America’s most popular local business networks -- the beloved
auto dealers who sponsor Little League teams, parks, giant flags
and Fourth of July celebrations. This sparked outrage from
dealers, senators and representatives, and even a stinging
report from the Treasury Department’s special inspector general
-- but the president stuck to his guns and demanded that the
dealer networks be downsized.  To describe the results of this multifaceted policy as a
success is like saying the cars at Indianapolis are fast. The
turnaround has been breathtaking. Skeptics scoffed at the plan’s
goal of returning GM to profitability by 2014; as it turned out,
the company was profitable by mid-2010. GM’s sales are up by
almost a third, and the new  Chevy Volt  leads the way in
innovation among electric cars.  Even the sickest of the Big Three, Chrysler, whose problems
in the spring of 2009 seemed so intractable that the White House
gave serious consideration to letting the company go under,
posted a $116 million profit for the first quarter of this year
and paid back its federal loans six years early. Perhaps most
importantly, the auto industry announced in May that it has
begun to hire again, a feat that would have been deemed
impossible two years ago.  Public Opposition  But if the administration has succeeded in doing Detroit’s
job better than Detroit itself ever could -- fixing the
industry, restructuring costs, mapping a plan for the future,
returning to profitability -- it still hasn’t convinced the
American people of this success, or of its importance. Opposed
by more than 70 percent of Americans at the time, the
administration’s 2009 rescue of the  auto industry  was unpopular
at the start, and remains so today.  Turning around public opinion on the government’s role in
saving the auto industry is almost as important as the
turnaround itself. The industry is clustered in three states --
Michigan, Ohio and  Indiana  -- which are at the core of the
president’s electoral base; two, Michigan and Ohio, are must-
wins for the Obama-Biden re-election effort in 2012.  High Unemployment  In all of these states, the president will have to overcome
a strong electoral headwind of high unemployment and cultural
conservatism; in Ohio and Michigan, Obama also will have to
contend with the Republicans’ 2010 takeover of the offices that
run statewide elections. The president is counting on his
successful auto rescue to be the tent pole that holds up his
political prospects in these critical states.  But the White House can’t stop there; it also needs to sell
this policy to Americans across the country. To refine its
message, the administration should do three things:  First, tell the story with fewer numbers and more emotion;
less prose and more poetry. Rescuing the auto industry isn’t
just a matter of saving jobs and factories -- it means
preserving a uniquely American manufacturing tradition. Cars are
more American than apple pie or hot dogs (which, unlike the
automobile, were both invented in  Europe ). We couldn’t have won
World War II without this "arsenal of democracy"; as Walter
Reuther famously said, "England’s battles were won on the
playing fields of Eton, but America’s were won on the assembly
lines of Detroit." The president needs to jujitsu Republican
critics who accuse him of failing to understand American
exceptionalism by pointing out his success in saving this
exceptionally American industry.  ‘Shared Sacrifice’  Second, equally emphasize the  pain  that was imposed as a
condition of support, and the hard and unpopular choices the
president made. It was a plan of “shared sacrifice,” in which
executives were fired, workers lost jobs, benefits and pay were
cut, and dealers were shut down. The story of the tough choices
the president made along the way must be told to convince the
public that this wasn’t a handout.  Third, let the people of the auto communities tell their
own stories -- encouraging homegrown viral videos and other uses
of social and new media. This is a lesson I learned the hard way
during the 18 months I was part of the White House team that
struggled to explain the benefits of the Recovery Act. We used
visits by the president and vice president, videos posted on
WhiteHouse.gov, as well as endless statistics and charts and
maps and graphics on  Recovery.gov  -- and yet nothing got the job
done. Finally, two ice-cream shop owners made an iPhone video
that told the story better than we ever had, by showing how a
single small business loan rippled across their area to create
jobs in countless other businesses.  The White House needs a similar personal narrative to tell
the auto rescue story, or it will risk being denied a return to
Victory Lane in 2012.  ( Ron Klain  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  For Related News and Information:
For More Bloomberg View: {NI BVIEW }
For more Klain columns: {NI KLAIN }
For Top Government news: {NI GTOP }  To contact the writer of this column:
 Rklain@Bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net  