-- 
Obama Draws on Business Expertise in Picking Bryson for Commerce Agency

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-06-01T04:00:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/obama-to-nominate-energy-executive-john-bryson-to-lead-commerce-department.html
President  Barack Obama  named former
 Edison International (EIX)  Chief Executive Officer John Bryson as his
choice for commerce secretary, drawing on business expertise for
a job central to his goal of doubling U.S. exports.  The choice of a private sector executive for the commerce
post is the latest move by Obama to repair relations between the
White House and the business community that were frayed by
disagreements over the administration’s overhaul of health-care
and financial regulations.  Bryson drew praise yesterday from business groups as well
as from former colleagues and public officials in  California ,
where Edison is based.  “With his extensive knowledge of the private sector and
years of experience successfully running a major company, we
hope Mister Bryson will be a strong voice for American
businesses,” U.S. Chamber of Commerce President  Thomas Donohue 
said in a statement.  The  Business Roundtable , whose members include the chief
executives of the nation’s largest corporations, joined the
Chamber, which is the nation’s largest business lobbying group,
in their support of the nomination.  The president has said development of clean and renewable
energy industries in the U.S. is key to keeping the nation
competitive in the global economy and increasing U.S. exports to
$3.14 trillion by the end of 2014 from $1.57 trillion in 2009.
Bryson’s background complements that emphasis.  Bryson’s Career  Bryson joined  Edison International , owner of California’s
largest electric utility, in 1984 and was named chief executive
in October 1990. After serving more than 17 years at the helm,
Bryson retired in 2008.  Since last September, Bryson has been chairman of
BrightSource Energy Inc., an Oakland, California-based developer
of solar  power plants . BrightSource, which counts Google Inc.
among its investors, is seeking to use solar-thermal technology
to generate capacity equal to 11 nuclear power plants.  Earlier this year the company tapped a $1.6 billion loan
from the U.S. government to build its Ivanpah project across
3,600 acres in the  Mojave Desert . Construction started in
October, and the facility will generate 392 megawatts of power.  In introducing him at the White House yesterday, Obama said
Bryson is “a business leader who understands what it takes to
innovate, to create jobs, and to persevere through tough
times.” He also called him “a fierce proponent of alternative
energy.”  Senate Confirmation  Bryson’s nomination is subject to Senate confirmation. The
chamber’s Republican leader,  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, said
yesterday that he and party colleagues were standing by their
previous threat to hold up Obama’s commerce pick until
administration submits pending free-trade deals with  South
Korea , Panama and Colombia for approval.  Congressional Democrats want to tie in passage of
legislation renewing trade adjustment assistance for workers who
lose their jobs because of overseas competition, a measure
Republicans oppose.  Republican Senator James Inhofe of  Oklahoma  said in a
statement he would be “working actively” to defeat the
nomination because of Bryson’s role in helping found the  Natural
Resources Defense Council , an environmental advocacy
organization. Inhofe called the group “a radical environmental
organization.”  Climate Change  Issue  Inhofe, who has called man-made global warming a
hoax, also cited Bryson’s work on a United Nations advisory
group on climate change.  Obama’s spokesman urged Republicans to let Bryson’s
nomination move through the Senate.  “We think that it would be folly to hold up a nomination
so important as the commerce secretary for any reason,” White
House press secretary  Jay Carney  said.  If confirmed, Bryson, 67, would replace Secretary Gary Locke, who Obama has nominated as U.S. ambassador to  China .  The Commerce Department, which has a $7.5 billion budget
and more than 46,000 employees, has a diverse mission that
includes boosting exports, monitoring the weather, issuing
patents, conducting the Census, managing fisheries and expanding
broadband technology.  Bryson helped steer Edison’s electric utility, the largest
in the state, through the California energy crisis of 2000 and
2001 that bankrupted larger rival Pacific Gas & Electric, a unit
of San Francisco-based  PG&E Corp. (PCG)  Edison was forced to sell most
of its overseas assets after its debt rating declined in part
due to the crisis.  Confidence  “There were a bunch of people who could have pulled the
string and put Edison into bankruptcy, but there was confidence
from the bankers that Bryson and his executive team would do the
right things,” Michael Peevey, president of the California
Public Utilities Commission, said in a telephone interview.  Bryson was a leader among U.S. electric utility executives
on the issues of renewable energy use, managing greenhouse gas
emissions and protection of habitat, said  Mary Nichols , head of
the California Air Resources Board. “His focus on science and
outreach to communities are very good predictors of success at
the Commerce Department,” Nichols said in an e-mail.  Frances Beinecke , president of the Natural Resources
Defense Council, released a statement yesterday calling Bryson
“a visionary leader in promoting a clean environment and a
strong economy.”  From 1979 to 1982, Bryson was president of the California
Public Utilities Commission, where he separated utility profits
from power use rates in an effort to spur California utilities
to promote energy conservation.  He served on the board of directors for  Boeing Co. (BA) , the
world’s largest aerospace company, since 1995, and at  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) , the world’s largest media company, since 2000,
according to the companies’ websites.  Bryson has a “strong strategic vision and business savvy,
along with a keen grasp of policy and its impact on the business
environment,” Walt Disney Co. CEO Bob Iger said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  