-- 
Oil Gains for Second Day on Keystone Pipeline, U.S. Consumer Confidence

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 
2011-05-31T12:31:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/oil-gains-for-second-day-on-keystone-pipeline-u-s-consumer-confidence.html
Oil rose for a second day, trimming
the biggest monthly decline in a year, on signs European
officials will approve more aid for Greece and as a leak shut a
pipeline carrying crude to the largest U.S. storage hub.  Futures climbed as much as 2 percent, topping $102 a barrel
for the first time since May 11, after  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  closed
the Keystone pipeline that runs from  Alberta  to Cushing,
 Oklahoma , where New York-traded oil is stored. The euro rose to
a three-week high against the dollar, bolstering the appeal of
commodities for protecting against inflation. Oil also gained on
forecasts  consumer confidence  in the U.S., the world’s biggest
crude user, increased to the highest in three months.  “Bullish factors are winning this morning, with the market
again being supported by the weak dollar,” said  Christopher Bellew , senior broker at Bache Commodities Ltd. in London.  Crude for July delivery climbed as much as $2.01 to $102.60
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $102.11 at 12:48 p.m.  London  time.  Futures, down 10 percent this month, are set to snap an
eight-month rising streak. Floor trading was closed yesterday
for the U.S. Memorial Day holiday and transactions will be
booked with today’s trades for settlement purposes.  Brent crude  for July settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange climbed as much as $2.01, or 1.8
percent, to $116.69 a barrel. Prices, down 7.9 percent this
month, are also set to end an eight-month rally.  Pipeline ‘Issue’  Calgary-based TransCanada shut the 591,000 barrel-a-day
Keystone pipeline after “an issue with a fitting” caused a 40-
barrel oil leak at a pump station, according to an e-mailed
statement from Terry Cunha, a company spokesman. There was no
fault on the pipeline itself, he said.  “Market participants are looking for more bullish factors
rather than bearish factors as the correction is over,” said
 Tetsu Emori , a commodity-fund manager at Astmax Ltd. in  Tokyo ,
who predicts prices may rise to about $115 to $120 a barrel.
“That’s why the market is focusing on such news even if it’s
not really having a significant impact on supplies.”  Crude stockpiles at Cushing were at 40 million barrels in
the week ended May 20, compared with 37.6 million a year
earlier, the Energy Department said last week. Supplies reached
a record 41.9 million in the week to April 8.  Greece  Aid  The euro was up 0.7 percent at $1.4385 as of 12:48 p.m. in
London after Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said
European leaders will decide on a new aid package for Greece by
the end of June and have ruled out a “total restructuring” of
the nation’s debt. The European currency earlier rose to
$1.4424, the strongest since May 9.  The Conference Board’s index of U.S. consumer confidence,
scheduled for release at 10 a.m. in New York, will climb to 66.5
in May from 65.4 in April, based on the median estimate of 60
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Other reports this week
may show U.S. factory output and job growth slowed while home-
price declines accelerated.  Qatar’s oil minister said today there’s “no noticeable
urgency” for the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
to raise its quota when it meets on June 8 in Vienna.  The oil market is in a “healthy situation,” Minister
Mohammed bin Saleh al-Sada said today at a news conference in
Ras Laffan, Qatar. Supply, demand and prices are “getting
stable,” he said.  Possible Quota Increase  Analysts at DnB NOR said OPEC is likely to increase its
production quota of 24.845 million barrels a day to 27 million
barrels. The 11 nations bound by this ceiling pumped 26.3
million barrels a day last month, the bank said in a report. An
increase in the target would be the group’s first since 2008.  Oil in  New York  is set to finish May trading above a long-
term support level on monthly technical charts. Futures remain
above $94.97 a barrel, the 61.8 percent Fibonacci retracement of
the market’s rally from $10.35 in December 1998 to $147.27 in
July 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors
use Fibonacci levels to identify points to buy or sell
contracts. Crude is the fifth-worst performer in May in Standard
& Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities.  Brent, the European benchmark, traded at a premium of
$13.91 a barrel to U.S. futures. The difference between front-
month contracts in London and New York reached a record $19.54
on Feb. 21. It averaged 76 cents last year.  Brent has increased 22 percent this year as unrest in the
 Middle East  and North Africa toppled leaders in Tunisia and
 Egypt  and spread to  Libya , Iran and  Syria . In Yemen, the death
toll from an attack on protesters by security forces rose to 57,
with more than 1,000 injured in the city of Taiz, al-Jazeera
television reported yesterday.  Libya’s rebel-leadership council yesterday sought
representation at next week’s OPEC meeting. The country has lost
82 percent of its oil output this year because of protests
against leader  Muammar Qaddafi . The 12 members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which gathers
June 8 in Vienna, pump about 40 percent of the world’s crude.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  