-- 
Tokyo Electric Default Swaps Rise on Junk Rating

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C h u   a n d   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 
2011-05-31T06:21:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/tokyo-electric-default-swaps-rise-on-junk-rating.html
The cost of protecting  Tokyo Electric 
Power Co.’s debt from default climbed and shares of Japan’s
largest utility declined after ratings on its debt were lowered
to junk status by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services.  Contracts insuring debt of Tokyo Electric, or Tepco, from
default jumped 200 basis points to a record 900 basis points in
Tokyo today, according to Citigroup Inc. prices. The shares fell
2.8 percent to 317 yen in Tokyo and have fallen 85 percent since
March 10, the day before an earthquake and tsunami crippled one
of Tepco’s nuclear plants.  The debt rating was cut as the Japanese government is
attempting to prevent Tepco from going bankrupt and to
compensate those affected by the worst nuclear crisis since
Chernobyl. Tepco may face claims of as much as 11 trillion yen
($136 billion) for damages from its Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant,
according to a Bank of America Corp. Merrill Lynch estimate.  “Tepco’s worsening financial position increases the
likelihood its lender banks could restructure its borrowings,”
S&P said. “Any waiver of loans or distressed restructuring,
such as a lowering of  interest rates  on existing loans,
constitutes a form of default and would trigger a lowering of
the corporate credit ratings on Tepco to SD -- Selective
Default.”  Cutting Spending  The power producer, which this month posted the biggest
loss on record for a non-financial Japanese company, had its
long-term corporate rating cut to B+ from BBB, the fourth
reduction since March 18, when it was graded AA-, and short-term
corporate rating cut to B from A-2, S&P said in a statement late
yesterday.  “Japanese investors won’t be affected directly as long as
Japanese rating agencies keep their A ratings,” Yoshihiro Nakatani, a senior  fund manager  at Asahi Life Asset Management
Co., said in a telephone interview today.  Tepco’s A rating from Tokyo-based Rating and Investment
Information Inc. is on review for downgrade.  “When banks lend money going forward, having even one junk
grade can be an obstacle to Tepco’s financing,” Nakatani said.
“Also, rising credit-default swaps mean brokers have to pay
more for hedging bonds.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Tepco’s 1.63
percent note due in July 2021 instead of similar-maturity
government debt was 348 basis points on May 30, according to
 Japan  Securities Dealers Association prices on Bloomberg. The
spread was at 9 basis points a day before the quake.  Spreads Widen  Yields on Tepco’s euro-denominated 4.5 percent notes due in
March 2014 rose 242 basis points to a record 1,017 more than the
swap rate as of 11:21 a.m. in Tokyo, according to BNP Paribas SA
prices. The spread was 21 basis points on March 10, the prices
show.  “We are taking the rating downgrade seriously,” Ai
Tanaka, a spokeswoman at the utility, said by phone today. “We
will try to restore confidence in the market and plan to
rationalize our management and cut spending as we announced in
our earnings statement.”  The company paid 50 billion yen of bonds due yesterday,
spokeswoman Ryoko Sakai said.  Tepco has 6.88 trillion yen of debt, making it the nation’s
second-largest corporate borrower among members of the Nikkei
225 Stock Average, behind Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.,
Bloomberg data show. A group of banks led by  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. (8316)  advanced 2 trillion yen of emergency loans
to the utility after the quake.  Reactor Meltdowns  The Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant north of Tokyo has
been spewing radiation since the March 11 quake and tsunami
damaged power and cooling systems, causing three of six reactors
to melt down.  The Japanese government said it will create an agency to
handle claims made against Tepco and will issue bonds to fund
them. Tokyo Electric accepted the conditions set by the
government, which include unlimited liability on payments for
damages from the accident.  Tepco President Masataka Shimizu, 66, resigned on May 20 to
take responsibility for the loss.  The utility posted a full-year loss of 1.25 trillion yen,
said it will sell 600 billion in assets and book a 1.1 trillion
yen charge for the nuclear disaster. Shimizu will be replaced by
Managing Director Toshio Nishizawa, 60.  Interest Forgiveness  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting $10
million of debt from default for five years is equivalent to
$1,000 a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Moody’s Japan cut its rating on Tepco’s senior secured debt
to the second-lowest investment grade on May 16 and kept it on
review for additional downgrades. The debt had a grade of Aa2,
Moody’s third-highest, through March 17.  “Forgiveness of interest would mean that Tepco faces
difficulty repaying debt, thereby prompting us to review it for
further downgrading,” Kenji Okamoto, a senior analyst at
Moody’s, told reporters in Tokyo May 19.  Japanese banks are resisting government calls for lenders
to support Tokyo Electric by forgiving loans or easing interest
charges. Masayuki Oku, chairman of the Japanese Bankers
Association, said on May 19 that banks aren’t considering
writing off or cutting interest payments on existing loans.  “The government and Tepco should solve the issue by
sharing the burden,” Oku told reporters in Tokyo.  Worse Than Expected  Tepco’s loss eclipsed the 812 billion yen deficit reported
by  Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. (9432)  in the year ended March
2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. (8411) ’s 2.38 trillion yen loss the following year is the
largest in Japan.  On May 15, more than two months after the disaster at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, Tepco said conditions were worse than
believed in reactor No. 1 where all the uranium fuel rods had
melted.  Radioactive elements from the reactors were found in the
soil, air and water and forced about 50,000 families near the
plant to evacuate.  The station, which has experienced hundreds of aftershocks
since the main quake, may release more radiation than Chernobyl
before the crisis is contained, Tepco officials have said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Chu in  Tokyo  at 
 pachu@bloomberg.net ;
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  