-- 
Thomas Hampson to Sing Role of 9/11 Hero, Likes Yodeling

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-05-31T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/thomas-hampson-to-play-morgan-stanley-9-11-hero-loves-yodeling-interview.html
The U.S. baritone Thomas Hampson says
he didn’t need to think long when David Gockley, the director
general of the  San Francisco Opera , called to offer him the lead
role in a new opera about Sept. 11, 2001.  “Heart of a Soldier,” by composer Christopher Theofanidis
and librettist Donna DiNovelli, tells the true story of Rick
Rescorla, the head of security for  Morgan Stanley (MS)  at the World
Trade Center. Rescorla’s presence of mind and commanding voice
helped evacuate the company’s 2,700 employees from the South
Tower before it collapsed. He died when he returned to search
for stragglers. The opera premieres on Sept. 10.  “I immediately said yes,” Hampson, 55, says in Berlin the
morning after a concert there with the  New York Philharmonic .
“I am deeply committed to new music. The most important mandate
we have in the operatic world is to nurture new pieces, because
we need to build a new repertoire.”  Hampson, who will sing the part of Rescorla, is an imposing
presence, with his 6-foot-4 frame, handsome looks and sonorous
voice. He speaks with verve and passion about his projects. He
is affable, too. Unperturbed by a faulty dictaphone, he offers
to record our conversation on his iPhone and send me the file
after our meeting. (“Ha, that way I can cut out the bits I
don’t like,” he jokes.)  Known for his mastery of a vast repertoire, Hampson is
touring  Europe  on a  “Mahler Odyssey”  that coincides with the
centennial of the composer’s death and includes performances
with the  New York Philharmonic  and recitals with the pianist
Wolfram Rieger.  Mahler Songs  He has championed Mahler’s songs for decades, and released
in January a new recording with Deutsche Grammophon of “Des
Knaben Wunderhorn.” A musical scholar as well as interpreter,
Hampson worked with a team of researchers to produce scores of
the composer’s complete songs for voice and piano, and for voice
and orchestra.  I ask whether he worries that audiences for lieder concerts
are dwindling and ageing.  Any discussion about the relevance of classical music is
“nonsense,” Hampson says emphatically. After all, “no one
questions the relevance of jazz or country and western,” both
of which also are losing audiences.  His concern is more “sociological than to do with music
type.” Modern life, he argues, encourages people to seek stress
relief rather than enlightenment or learning in their free time.  “We divide our time, especially in the U.S., into three
parts -- the stuff you do to stay alive, like eating and
sleeping; then work time; and then non-work-time, which is
everything from the museum to the baseball game to music.”  Seeking Distraction  “Everybody is so stressed to work and be alive, what they
want to do when they are not working is more distraction than
even entertainment,” Hampson says. “Education falls between
the cracks.”  Classical music is increasingly marketed “as the high end
of the entertainment industry,” he says. “It is hard to get
people to focus on the substance versus the packaging.”  Hampson says he has no time for attempts to woo new opera
audiences with “the barber of Seville eating pickles on a
motorcycle” or “yet another production of Don Giovanni where
he is a drug dealer.”  “Asking how we can repackage our stuff to gain a wider
audience is fraught with problems,” he says. “This is one of
the reasons I took myself out of a lot of Mozart projects and I
don’t sing it so much anymore. We should be writing new pieces.
Please someone write a new, 21st-century ‘Giovanni!’”  Ades Fan  Hampson is a fan of Thomas Ades, the U.K. composer, who he
says has written “some of the most important work of the last
10 years.”  “I would love to get my teeth into ‘The Tempest,’” he
says. “I hope one of these guys that are really becoming great
operatic composers will take on Lear before I am done.”  When he’s not working, Hampson says he listens to a lot of
avant-garde music, both classical and jazz.  “I’m crazy about new musical languages,” he says. “I am
also passionate about folk music. I think yodeling is a
phenomenon. I have spent thousands of dollars trying to get the
yodel out of my own voice, but it is a very interesting thing to
listen to.”  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 