-- 
Home Prices in 20 U.S. Cities Decline to Eight-Year Low, Case-Shiller Says

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-05-31T14:45:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/home-prices-in-20-u-s-cities-decline-to-eight-year-low-case-shiller-says.html
Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities dropped
in March to the lowest level since 2003, showing housing remains
mired in a slump almost two years into the economic recovery.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 3.6 percent from March 2010, the biggest year-over-year
decline since November 2009, the group said today in New York.
At 138.16, the gauge was the weakest since March 2003.  A backlog of foreclosures poised to reach the market means
prices may stay depressed, dissuading builders from taking on
new-home construction projects. Unemployment at 9 percent and
stricter lending conditions are signs that any recovery in
housing may take years.  “With the foreclosure pipeline still full to bursting,
it’s hard to see this downward pressure on prices abating,”
said  Paul Dales , a senior U.S. economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in Toronto. “I wouldn’t be surprised to see prices
continue to fall this year and maybe into next year.”  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast a 3.4 percent
decline from a year earlier, according to the median forecast of
27 economists surveyed. Estimates ranged from declines of 4.9
percent to 2.8 percent.  Other reports today showed  consumer confidence  unexpectedly
declined in May to a six-month low, and business activity in the
U.S. cooled more than forecast.  Stocks rose amid speculation the European Union will pledge
further aid to  Greece . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was up
0.5 percent to 1,338 at 10:37 a.m. in  New York .  Nationally, home prices decreased 5.1 percent in the first
quarter from the same time in 2010, and were down 4.2 percent
from the previous three months, the biggest one-quarter decrease
since the first three months of 2009. At 125.41, the index was
the lowest since the second quarter of 2002.  Greece Boosts Shares  Home prices in the 20 cities fell 0.2 percent in March from
the prior month after adjusting for seasonal variations, a ninth
consecutive decrease. Thirteen of the 20 areas posted price
declines in March from the previous month, led by  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina , and Minneapolis.  The year-over-year gauge provides better indications of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel comprises  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the index.  Nineteen of the 20 cities in the index showed a year-over-
year decline, led by a 10 percent slump in Minneapolis. The
exception was Washington, where values climbed 4.3 percent.  Prices in 12 markets dropped to fresh lows in March from
their 2006, 2007 peaks: Atlanta, Charlotte,  Chicago , Cleveland,
Detroit,  Las Vegas , Miami, Minneapolis, New York, Phoenix,
Portland, Oregon, and Tampa.  ‘Double-Dip’  “This month’s report is marked by the confirmation of a
double-dip in home prices across much of the nation,”  David Blitzer , chairman of the Case-Shiller index committee at S&P,
said in a statement.  Further declines in home prices are likely to constrain the
 consumer spending  that makes up 70 percent of the economy, as
homeowners feel less wealthy and have little home equity to
borrow against.  Reports earlier this month showed the housing market
remains depressed as the broader economy slows.  Pending sales of previously owned homes plunged 12 percent
in April from the prior month, the National Association of
Realtors said last week. The gauge measures contract signings,
which typically lead closings by one to two months, a sign
existing purchases will slow.  Sales Fall  Sales of previously owned homes, based on closings, fell
0.8 percent in April to a 5.05 million rate, with demand for
distressed properties accounting for 37 percent of the total,
NAR said last May 19.  The overhang of unsold housing inventory will probably
remain an issue for builders and buyers alike. CoreLogic Inc. in
March estimated about 1.8 million homes were more than 90 days
delinquent, in foreclosure or bank-owned, a so-called “shadow
inventory” set to add to the unsold supply of 3.87 million
previously owned homes on the market at the end of April.  Builders are gloomy and project demand will remain
depressed into next year, Bill Wheat, chief financial officer of
D.R. Horton Inc., told a housing conference in New York on May
11.  “We still see housing demand at very weak levels,” Wheat
said. “It could still be a struggle in 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  