-- 
On Medicare, It’s Ryan Plan Versus Bureaucrats: Ramesh Ponnuru

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-05-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/on-medicare-it-s-ryan-plan-versus-bureaucrats-ramesh-ponnuru.html
Dear (Republican congressman): So you
voted for Congressman  Paul Ryan ’s budget plan, including its
Medicare reforms, and now you’re worried about it. Most of the
poll numbers on the plan look pretty bad, and now your party has
lost a special election in  New York  for a House seat -- an
election in which Medicare was the top issue. Now you’re afraid
you’re going to lose your seat, too.  You shouldn’t be surprised. Remember how many of your
fellow Republicans went on and on about how "brave" you were all
being? As your consultant, I told you at the time: When they say
you’re being brave, it means you’re putting your re-election at
risk. So congratulations: You were certainly brave.  You were also right. Everyone who has taken a serious look
at Medicare agrees that its costs need to be controlled.
Otherwise the federal government will become an old-age program
with a few tanks. Merely capping the growth of Medicare
spending, though, would force tomorrow’s seniors to pay more
without reducing the burden of overall health costs on the
economy. So it also makes sense to let beneficiaries use their
share of federal dollars to shop for the best insurance. It
makes more sense than the main cost-cutting alternative, which
is cutting payment rates to providers.  The  Congressional Budget Office  doesn’t see it that way. It
doesn’t know how to predict how competition will play out, so it
ignores the possibility that it will produce any savings. In
contrast, the CBO finds it easy to predict that lower payouts
will save money, even if they would lead to worse care.  In the real world, competition works better than price
controls.  Polling Well  But as I told you many, many times, it doesn’t always poll
better. Your impatience, however understandable given how fast
insolvency is approaching, was unwise. You would have been
better off tackling easier spending issues like Medicaid first
and holding hearings on Medicare’s problems and how to fix them.
You should have recruited presidential candidates to raise the
issue in 2012, when they will have a megaphone as big as
President Barack Obama’s.  Since you don’t pay me just to say I told you so, though,
I’ve been thinking about what you should do now. The bad news is
that you’re stuck with this vote. A year and a half from now the
Democrats and their interest groups are going to run ad after ad
attacking you for trying to kill old folks. You can’t say you’re
sorry for that vote without looking weak and insincere -- worse,
like you really were trying to pull one over on old people but
got caught.  Lower Liability  The good news is that this issue stays on a boil only if
Republicans let it. If you strike a deal with Obama over
Medicare -- by, say, raising the age when benefits begin in
exchange for an increase in the debt limit -- your liability
drops. Even without a deal, Ryan’s legislation is dead in the
Senate. It will be hard for Democrats to spend the next year
yelling about Medicare if nobody is doing anything about it in
 Washington .  So am I telling you to change the subject for the next year
while the issue dies down?  No. You need to spend a lot of time over the next year
talking to your constituents about Medicare. Hold town halls,
lots of them. If no one brings up Medicare because it’s dropped
out of the news, you bring it up. Explain why the plan is
necessary and defend it against criticisms. Make it clear that
people in or near retirement will be left alone, and that
seniors who are poor or in bad health will get more federal
support.  Get Ready  If you keep at it, you might be prepared for the onslaught
of negative ads you’re going to face after Labor Day in 2012.
Maybe you’ll even get some people who still worry about the plan
to see that you’ve thought it through carefully -- that you’re
being reasonable and responsible, and not just taking an axe to
an important program for the fun of it.  That means you’ll need to do more homework than most of my
clients like to do. Sorry about that. It’s what happens when you
decide to take on a complicated issue over strong opposition. I
can give you one more bit of advice to lighten your load. When
you’re talking about Medicare, at those town halls or in
interviews, don’t say that the alternative is bankruptcy and
that the Democrats want to do nothing.  No, the alternative is heavy-handed bureaucratic cost-
cutting. The Democratic plan is cutting payment rates so that
Medicare becomes as lousy a program as Medicaid, with doctors
refusing to participate in it. The Democratic plan is letting an
unelected board decide which treatments won’t get funded.  If your reform plan is weighed against an impossible dream
of keeping Medicare exactly as it is regardless of
affordability, voters are going to prefer the impossible dream.
If it’s compared to the real alternative, you just might make
it. Tell the voters: If someone is going to decide how to spend
your health-care dollars, shouldn’t it be you?  You’re welcome. And if any of your colleagues are
interested in my advice, please let them know how modest my
monthly retainer is.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own. )  To contact the writer of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru in Washington at 
 rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  