-- 
Lone Star, Creditors Taking Over Tokyo Star Bank, FT Reports

-- B y   R u s s e l l   W a r d
-- 
2011-05-31T02:41:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/lone-star-creditors-taking-over-tokyo-star-bank-ft-reports.html
Lone Star  Funds, the U.S. investment
company, and  Shinsei Bank Ltd. (8303)  are among creditors of Tokyo Star
Bank Ltd. that are taking over the lender from Japanese buyout
firm Advantage Partners LLC, the Financial Times reported.  Advantage Partners’ funds were unable to pay interest on
160 billion yen ($2 billion) of loans used to finance the
acquisition of Tokyo Star, the FT reported, without saying where
it got the information. The creditors will transfer the funds’
shares to a special-purpose vehicle, the newspaper said.  Advantage in December 2007 agreed to buy Lone Star’s 68
percent stake in Tokyo Star, which was bailed out by the
Japanese government eight years earlier, gaining a niche in
small-company lending in  Japan ’s capital. Tokyo Star delisted
from the Tokyo Stock Exchange in 2008 after the acquisition.  The creditors plan to reset the terms of their loan to the
bank and eventually sell the shares, the FT said, adding that
the process will probably take several months.  Tokyo Star said in a statement last week that nothing has
been decided on any management change, in response to local
media reports that creditors including Lone Star, Shinsei and
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  would take control of the lender.  Advantage Partners had undertaken to repay its debt
financing with dividends from Tokyo Star, the FT said. It became
unable to make the payments because the bank has been losing
money, the newspaper said. Advantage Partners didn’t immediately
reply to a message left by phone.  Tokyo Star’s annual loss widened to 4.7 billion yen in the
year ended March 31 from 2.8 billion yen a year earlier, the
bank said on May 27. Bank lending in Japan has fallen for 17
months as households and companies hoard cash amid deflation.  The creditors will be able to cover 120 billion yen of
senior debt through any share sale, the FT said. There is also
up to 50 billion yen in more junior debt, held by various funds,
the report said.  Tokyo Star, based in the capital city, has 31 branches and
1,138 full-time staff, according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Russell Ward in Tokyo at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  