-- 
Hong Kong Retail Sales Jump 28% in Biggest Gain Since 1991

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-05-31T08:47:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/hong-kong-retail-sales-jump-28-in-biggest-gain-since-1991-1-.html
Hong Kong ’s retail sales jumped 28
percent, the biggest gain since August 1991, as inflows of
Chinese tourists and low unemployment bolstered spending.  Sales rose to HK$32 billion ($4.1 billion) after a revised
26 percent increase in March, the government said on its website
today. The latest number was more than the median 25 percent
estimate of nine economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Visitor arrivals from mainland  China  surged in April to 2.1
million, while unemployment stayed below 4 percent for a fourth
straight month. Strength in domestic consumption may help the
economy to expand as much as 6 percent this year, the government
forecasts. At the same time, accelerating inflation has the
potential to discourage spending.  Retail sales are being boosted by “tight labor market
conditions,” Donna Kwok, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc.,
said in Hong Kong before today’s report. “Accelerating
inflation is starting to bite at the confidence of local
households, but we expect this risk to be mitigated by the
continued strength of mainland visitor inflows and spending.”  The gain in sales was the biggest since 1991 excluding
January and February numbers distorted each year by the timing
of a Lunar New Year holiday.  Hong Kong will give a handout of HK$6,000 to each permanent
resident, Financial Secretary John Tsang said in March. The
money will encourage retail spending and benefit companies
including  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  and Lifestyle International
Holdings Ltd., CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets said in March.  By volume, retail sales increased 21.9 percent last month
from a year earlier, the government said.  -- With assistance from Michael Munoz and Marco Lui in Hong
Kong. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Sunil Jagtiani.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  