-- 
Mongolian Mining to Buy Kerry’s Coal Mine for $464.5 Million

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-06-01T08:55:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/mongolian-mining-agrees-to-buy-kerry-mining-s-qgx-coal-for-464-5-million.html
Mongolian Mining Corp. (975) , the nation’s
biggest coking coal exporter, agreed to pay $464.5 million to
buy the Baruun Naran mine in Mongolia from a unit of Kerry
Holdings Ltd., adding production to an adjacent operation.  Mongolian Mining will pay $379.5 million in cash for QGX
Holdings, the unit that owns the mine, and $85 million in
convertible bonds, the company said today in a statement.  “The sizable coking coal resources and reserves estimated
in the Baruun Naran coking  coal mine  will open potential to
diversify the group’s coal products and enhance sources of
revenue,” Mongolian Mining said. The company will also be able
to share mine and transport infrastructure, the statement said.  Prices for coking coal, a key steelmaking raw material,
rose to a record this quarter, boosting appetite for mergers and
acquisitions. Rio Tinto Group in April won control of Mozambique
developer Riversdale Mining Ltd. following a A$3.9 billion ($4.2
billion) offer in December.  Mongolian Mining, based in Ulaanbaatar, climbed 2 percent
to HK$9.28 at the close in Hong Kong. The stock has risen 2.3
percent this year, compared with a 2.6 percent gain in the  Hang
Seng Index .  Citigroup Inc. (C)  is advising Mongolian Mining and  UBS AG (UBSN)  is
advising Kerry.  The bonds, which pay 2 percent interest, can be converted
into as many as 60.7 million shares in Mongolia Mining at
HK$10.92 each, the statement said. QGX is 90 percent owned by
Kerry Mining and 10 percent owned by the board of Mongolian
Mining and its controlling shareholder.  Extra Payment  Mongolia Mining may be required to pay as much as $105
million extra if the total proved reserves in the mine exceed
150 million metric tonnes within 18 to 21 months. Kerry Mining
and other shareholders of the mine are required to pay as much
as $90 million if the reserve is below that level during the
period, the statement said.  The company raised about $750 million in an initial public
offering in October and had said it plans to use $206 million
from the share sale to fund acquisitions.  Mongolian Mining plans to raise production to 15 million
tons a year by 2013 to meet increasing demand for the raw
material from  China ’s steelmakers, Chief Executive Officer
Battsengel Gotov said in September.  “Demand for coking coal will continue to grow,” Mongolian
Mining said in the statement today. “The acquisition enables
the group to further expand its coking coal mining business and
to solidify the company’s position as the leading coking coal
miner in Mongolia.”  Record Prices  Japan ’s Kobe Steel Ltd. agreed to pay Rio a record $330 a
ton for the quarter starting April 1. The talks ended before a
magnitude-9 earthquake in the Asian nation halted some steel
output.  Asian steelmakers may pay as much as 8 percent less for
hard coking coal next quarter as Australian supplies recover
from disruptions caused by heavy rain and flooding in the
world’s biggest exporter of the commodity.  Australian free-on-board prices may drop to $305 a ton for
three-month contracts starting July 1, according to the median
estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News last month.
Forecasts ranged from $280 to $330 a ton.  Mongolian Mining operates at Tavan Tolgoi, near the border
with China. The Tavan Tolgoi deposit is one of the world’s
largest unexploited reserves of coking coal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  