-- 
Mongolian Mining Said Near $465 Million Purchase of Mine

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-05-31T16:48:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/mongolian-mining-said-near-465-million-purchase-of-mine-1-.html
Mongolian Mining Corp. (975) , the nation’s
biggest coking coal exporter, is close to buying a Mongolian
mine from a unit of Kerry Holdings Ltd. for $465 million,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Mongolian Mining plans to pay about $380 million in cash
and issue $85 million of convertible bonds, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the deal hasn’t been
announced. The QGX coking  coal mine , bought by a unit of Kerry
Holdings in 2008, is adjacent to one already owned by Mongolian
Mining, the people said.  Prices for coking coal, one of two key steelmaking raw
ingredients, rose to a record in the first quarter, boosting
appetite for mergers and acquisitions. Rio Tinto Group in April
won control of Mozambique developer Riversdale Mining Ltd.
following a A$3.9 billion ($4.2 billion) offer in December.  An announcement may come as soon as today, said the people.
Calls to Mongolian Mining and Kerry Holdings after regular
business hours weren’t returned.  Mongolian Mining, based in Ulaanbaatar, raised about $750
million in an initial public offering in October. The company
said in its IPO prospectus that it was Mongolia’s biggest
exporter of coking coal in the first half of 2010.  It plans to raise production to 15 million metric tons a
year by 2013 to meet increasing demand for the raw material from
 China ’s steelmakers, Chief Executive Officer Battsengel Gotov
said in September.  Australian Floods  Asian steelmakers may pay as much as 8 percent less for
hard coking coal next quarter as Australian supplies recover
from disruptions caused by heavy rain and flooding in the
world’s biggest exporter of the commodity.  Australian free-on-board prices may drop to $305 a ton for
three-month contracts starting July 1, according to the median
estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News last month.
Forecasts ranged from $280 to $330 a ton.  Japan ’s Kobe Steel Ltd. agreed to pay Rio a record $330 a
ton for the quarter starting April 1. The talks ended before a
magnitude-9 earthquake in the Asian nation halted some steel
output.  Mongolian Mining operates at Tavan Tolgoi, near the border
with China. The Tavan Tolgoi deposit is one of the world’s
largest unexploited reserves of coking coal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  