-- 
OPEC Acting to Balance Oil Market, Iran OPEC Governor Says

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-05-31T08:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/opec-acting-to-balance-oil-market-iran-opec-governor-says-1-.html
OPEC is acting to balance global oil
markets and will make up for any shortage,  Iran ’s OPEC Governor
Mohammad Ali Khatibi said, according to the state-run news
agency Fars.  “OPEC is trying to compensate part of the shortage of
supply of crude and to create a balance in the market and in the
future OPEC will continue to fulfill its duty,” Khatibi said.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is
scheduled to meet June 8 in Vienna as oil prices trade above
$115 a barrel today in  London .  Global oil demand will rise to 88.9 million barrels a day by
the end of the year, Khatibi said, according to Fars. Demand for
OPEC’s crude will rise to 29.8 million barrels a day in the same
period, from 29.7 million in the first quarter, he said.  Iranian President Ahmadinejad sacked the country’s oil
minister in a reshuffle on May 14, appointing himself one day
later as the country’s caretaker oil minister.  Iran, the second-biggest oil producer in OPEC after  Saudi
Arabia , holds the rotating presidency of the organization this
year. Ahmadinejad won’t attend the June 8 meeting himself,
Shojaeddin Bazargani, the director general of the Ministerial
Affairs Department at Oil Ministry, said May 23. A minister will
represent Iran in the meeting, Bazargani then said, according to
local media.  A senior Iranian member of parliament warned that Iran’s
OPEC presidency may run into trouble if Ahmadinejad doesn’t
appoint an official to chair the next ministerial meeting.  “A caretaker or oil minister must chair OPEC, and if we
continue with the current trend, Iran will certainly lose OPEC’s
presidency,” Emad Hosseini, the rapporteur of the parliament’s
energy committee, told state-run Fars news yesterday, according
to a report published today.  OPEC’s 12 members are  Algeria , Angola, Ecuador, Iran,  Iraq ,
Kuwait,  Libya , Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is exempt from the group’s quota
system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  