-- 
Oprah Follows Castoffs From Mormon Sect; Mysterious Levine: TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-05-31T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/oprah-follows-castoffs-from-polygamist-sect-maestro-levine-greg-evans.html
“ Sons of Perdition ” is a flawed
documentary -- vague, haphazard and, at stretches, dry as its
 Utah  setting. But for sheer uplift, this chronicle of three
teenage boys cast out of a fundamentalist Mormon compound has
undeniable appeal.  Directed by Tyler Measom and Jennilyn Merten, the film
follows three troubled teens exiled by a Colorado City
polygamist community on the Utah/Arizona border.  The sect made headlines in 2005 when its leader, Warren Jeffs, was charged with crimes stemming from his alleged
arrangement of a marriage between a 14-year-old girl and her 19-
year-old cousin. Jeffs was found guilty, but the verdict was
overturned by the Utah Supreme Court because of improper jury
instructions.  Viewers interested in details of the Jeffs case or life in
the compound will be disappointed by “Sons of Perdition,”
which airs June 2 on Oprah Winfrey’s OWN network.  Instead, the film focuses on a scrappy, makeshift community
of runaway or discarded Mormon teens in  St. George , Utah, 45
miles from Colorado City. There, Sam, Joseph and Bruce --
undereducated, broke and lacking even the most basic cultural
knowledge -- bounce from house to house of friends, relatives
and do-gooders, with seemingly no assistance from the government
or child-welfare agencies.  Birth Certificates  In one heartbreaking scene, the boys (with the help of the
filmmakers) arrange to meet their jittery mothers in a
convenience-store parking lot to retrieve birth certificates and
Social Security information necessary to attend school.  The filmmakers estimate that as many as 1,000 boys have
left the Colorado City sect. Some have been forced out, while
others have run away. Male teenagers are often considered
expendable in the polygamist world because girls are usually
married off to older men, according to the film.  “Sons of Perdition” makes little, if any, attempt to
address the state’s apparent lack of response. The film does
introduce, with little explanation, a sympathetic entrepreneur
who, along with his wife, provides temporary housing for the
trio.  “Sons of Perdition” fares better as character study than
expose, following the boys over the course of what appears to be
several years (the film is fuzzy on such details). They struggle
in school and menial jobs, and, like the mainstream teens they
emulate, drink and party to cope.  Along the way, they attempt to rescue siblings and even
mothers from the polygamist world. “Sons of Perdition” tweaks
our interest enough to hope they succeed.  “Sons of Perdition” airs June 2 on OWN at 9 p.m.  New York 
time. Rating: **1/2  ‘America’s Maestro’  The four opening notes of Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony are
among the most familiar in all of music, but  James Levine 
rehearses the sequence with the Metropolitan Opera orchestra as
if no one had ever played it before.  That scene, captured in PBS’s loving tribute “ James
Levine: America’s Maestro ,” is a better testament than any
number of talking-head accolades.  To mark the conductor’s 40th anniversary with the Met,
filmmaker Susan Froemke chronicles a season in Levine’s life,
building up to the Met’s January 2010 performance of the
Beethoven symphony at  Carnegie Hall . (It seems rather odd that
the focus isn’t an opera.)  Froemke’s scope is too limited to stand as definitive
documentary. Levine’s personal life -- I assume he has one --and
his long tenure at the Boston Symphony Orchestra get little, if
any, attention. (He recently announced he will be leaving the
orchestra in September.) Even after all these years at the top,
Levine remains a mystery behind that ebullient facade.  Young Singers  Quickly sketching Levine’s child prodigy years, “Maestro”
hits its stride with archival footage of Levine and Placido Domingo in 1979 juxtaposed with recent rehearsal footage of the
two aging friends. The super-tenor has stayed amazingly fit,
while Levine has been bedeviled by health problems in recent
years.  Most revealingly, the film follows Levine through auditions
and rehearsals for the Met’s Young Artist Development Program.
He puts these promising singers through rigorous paces, a
demanding yet compassionate mentor. In such scenes, “America’s
Maestro” rewards his devotion.  “James Levine: America’s Maestro” airs tomorrow on PBS
at 8 p.m. New York time. Rating: ***  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 