-- 
Morgan Stanley Invests $50 Million in Short-Sale Mark Yongye

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-05-31T21:06:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/morgan-stanley-invests-in-short-sale-target-yongye-international.html
Morgan Stanley agreed to invest $50
million in  Yongye International Inc. (YONG) , the U.S.-traded producer
of plant nutrients in  China  that is the target of a short seller
who says the company has misrepresented its business.  Yongye shares surged 42 percent, the most in more than two
years, to $5.33 as of 4 p.m. New York time after Morgan Stanley,
the sixth-largest U.S. bank by assets, said it will invest in
Beijing-based Yongye through its Asian private equity unit. The
stock, which began trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market in 2009
following a 2008 takeover of a U.S. company, is down 37 percent
this year.  “After extensive due diligence, we believe Yongye to be an
exceptional company that has built significant  brand recognition 
in China’s agriculture industry,” said Homer Sun, managing
director of  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Private Equity  Asia , according to a
statement released by Yongye. Sun will join the Chinese
company’s board of directors, the statement said.  Morgan Stanley is offering a vote of confidence to a
company whose stock was down 55 percent in 2011 through last
week amid a hedge fund’s accusation that it manipulated
earnings. Morgan Stanley will purchase $50 million of preferred
shares, which are convertible into common stock at an initial
conversion price of $8.80 a share, Yongye said. That amount may
increase to $15 a share if the company reaches certain
undisclosed profit targets.  Proceeds from the investment will be used to expand
capacity, repay debt, add to working capital and for general
corporate purposes, the company said.  ‘Unwarranted Inferences’  Yongye fell 19 percent on May 19 after Absaroka Capital
Management LLC, a Wyoming-based hedge fund, called the company
“a fraud” in a  report  that claimed it has manipulated its
earnings and the stock should be at $1. Yongye defended itself
against the charges, saying Absaroka’s accusations are false and
based on “unwarranted inferences from documents that were filed
by third parties with the Chinese government,” according to a
statement.  Chinese companies trading in the U.S. through takeovers
have come under growing scrutiny by regulators and investors
amid speculation financial statements from companies such as
 China MediaExpress Holdings Inc. (CCME)  can’t be trusted. Transactions
called reverse mergers have given hundreds of Chinese
corporations access to the world’s largest capital market,
avoiding the inspection of initial public offerings as hunger
grows for investments in an economy that became larger than
 Japan ’s last year.  Short Interest  “Absaroka Capital Management firmly stands behind the
conclusions of its May 18, 2011, Yongye International report,”
said Kevin Barnes, an equity analyst at Absaroka, which holds a
short position against the company.  Short selling, or selling borrowed shares with the hope of
profiting when they fall, accounts for 5.1 percent of Yongye’s
outstanding shares, according to Data Explorers, a  New York- 
based research firm. That compares with a record of 9.4 percent
at the beginning of April and 6.4 percent at the end of 2010.
The average short interest for stocks in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index is 2.7 percent.  Yongye is among the most expensive U.S. equities to short.
The cost to borrow the stock to short is rated a 10 by Data
Explorers, the most-expensive level on the research firm’s
scale.  Jim Chanos , the hedge-fund manager known for predicting
Enron Corp.’s 2001 collapse, said last week he’d short sell
Chinese companies listed in the U.S. if it were feasible to
borrow shares to open the bearish positions. The Securities and
Exchange Commission began an investigation last year into the
use of reverse takeovers, in which a closely held firm becomes
public by purchasing a shell company that already trades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  