-- 
Tottenham to Sign Villa Goalkeeper Friedel, Daily Mirror Says: Roundup

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-05-31T11:24:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/tottenham-to-sign-villa-goalkeeper-friedel-daily-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Friedel to Spurs?  Goalkeeper Brad Friedel will join Tottenham after leaving
 Aston Villa , the  Daily Mirror  said.  The 40-year-old American will sign a two-year contract at
White Hart Lane and turn down a similar offer from Liverpool,
where he played from 1997-2000, because it gives him a greater
chance to play, the Mirror said.  Spurs manager  Harry Redknapp  wants to sell error-prone
Heurelho Gomes to make room for Friedel, who’s played almost 450
games in the Premier League, the newspaper said.  Fabregas Bid  European champion Barcelona is ready to make a 30 million-
pound ($49 million) bid for Arsenal captain Cesc Fabregas, the
 Mirror said .  Fabregas has been linked to Barcelona, which he left to
join Arsenal as a 16-year-old, in recent years. Arsenal may be
tempted if an offer of around 50 million pounds came in, the
newspaper said.  Berba Interest  Newcastle is interested in signing Manchester United
striker  Dimitar Berbatov , the  Sun said .  Berbatov wants to leave United after being left out of the
squad for last weekend’s Champions League final, the Sun said.
Newcastle manager Alan Pardew is willing to meet United’s 7.5
million-pound valuation, the newspaper added.  Spain-Bound?  Sevilla is ready to make an 8 million-pound offer for
Arsenal midfielder Denilson, the  Daily Mail  said.  Denilson said last week he wants to leave the Premier
League club after failing to earn a regular place in the team.
He joined Arsenal from Sao Paulo four years ago for 4 million
pounds, the Mail said.  New Cardiff Boss?  Cardiff fans want Wales striker Craig Bellamy to take over
as the club’s new manager, the  Daily Telegraph  said.  Dave Jones was fired yesterday after his team lost to
Reading in the Championship playoffs earlier this month.
Bellamy, 31, spent last season on loan at the club from
 Manchester City  and is being linked with the job along with
 Chris Hughton , Alan Curbishley and Martin O’Neill, the Telegraph
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 