-- 
U.S. Condemns Killing of Pakistan Reporter Who Claimed Army-Militant Ties

-- B y   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-06-01T06:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/pakistani-journalist-found-dead-after-disappearing-from-capital.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  condemned the killing of a Pakistani journalist who a
human rights group said had reported threats from intelligence
officers over his coverage of alleged links between the military
and Islamic militants.  “The  United States  strongly condemns the abduction and
killing of reporter Syed Saleem Shahzad,” Clinton said in a
statement issued by her office. “His work reporting on terrorism
and intelligence issues in Pakistan brought to light the
troubles extremism poses to Pakistan’s stability.”  Shahzad, a correspondent for the Italian news agency
Adnkronos International (AKI) and Hong Kong-based  Asia Times
Online , disappeared May 29 after reporting that last week’s
guerrilla attack on a Pakistani naval base was retaliation for
alleged Navy arrests of officers suspected of involvement with
al-Qaeda. Three calls to  Pakistan ’s military spokesman, Major
General Athar Abbas, were unanswered yesterday.  “Shahzad received repeated threats from ISI or other
Pakistani intelligence agencies” following earlier stories
about military links to extremist groups, said Ali Dayan Hasan,
a Pakistan-based researcher for  Human Rights Watch , which is
based in  New York . ISI is the abbreviation for the military’s
 Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate .  Disappeared in Islamabad  Shahzad disappeared in the capital, Islamabad, while
driving a few kilometers from his home to the studios of Dunya
Television for a program on which he was to discuss alleged
links between Pakistan’s armed forces and extremist groups, said
Nasim Zehra, the current-affairs director at the channel.  His body was found outside Jhelum, a city 120 kilometers
(75 miles) southeast of Islamabad, Dunya and other Pakistani
news channels reported. The body was retrieved from a canal
about 10 kilometers from where his car was found, Asia Times
reported.  An initial examination of the body showed possible signs of
torture, the  Associated Press  reported, citing a police official.
AKI cited an unnamed doctor who conducted an autopsy as saying
that Shahzad appeared to have been beaten to death. He was 40
years old, and is survived by his wife, two sons aged 14 and
seven, and a daughter aged 12, according to the websites of AKI
and Asia Times.  Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  has ordered a probe into
the killing, GEO channel reported. Clinton said the U.S.
supports the investigation.  ‘Most Dangerous Country’  Pakistan is “the world’s most dangerous country for
journalists” the Paris-based press-monitoring group Reporters
Without Borders said last month, citing  14 killings  of
journalists within 13 months. The group ranked Pakistan 151st
out of 178 countries it rated for the overall degree of press
freedoms.  The Pakistani military’s three decades of covert aid to
Islamic militant groups has raised tensions this year with the
U.S., notably since the American commando raid that killed al-
Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in an army-dominated town 50
kilometers from the capital. The White House withheld all
information from Pakistan on the raid because it feared that
some Pakistani officials would tip him off.  Shahzad specialized in reporting on intelligence and
security issues, and this month published a  book  on the recent
evolution of al-Qaeda and the Taliban. He reported to  Human
Rights Watch  that ISI summoned him to a meeting in October after
he published a story saying the agency had released the number-
two Taliban leader, Abdul Ghani Baradar, after arresting him
last year, Hasan said in a phone interview.  Shahzad “told me the ISI officers demanded to know the
source of his story and when he refused, the meeting ended with
what constituted a threat,” Hasan said.  “In the months since then, he told me that he still was
receiving threatening phone calls and was being followed,”
Hasan said. “He felt he was in danger.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 