-- 
Palin Shakes Up Republican Presidential Field While Keeping Mum on Plans

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-05-31T17:45:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/palin-shakes-up-republican-presidential-field-while-keeping-mum-on-plans.html
Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin is
shaking up a Republican presidential field just starting to take
shape, injecting her unconventional campaigning and celebrity
into what had been a sleepy start to the party’s 2012 primaries.  It’s not clear what Palin, 47, is up to as she travels the
East Coast on a deluxe tour bus emblazoned with a Liberty Bell
and phrases from the U.S. Constitution and the Pledge of
Allegiance -- whether she will choose to run for president or
how she will seek to affect the race with her re-emergence on
the national scene.  “I don’t know, I honestly don’t know” about seeking the
presidency, Palin told reporters who caught up with her
yesterday in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, according to the
 Associated Press .  What is evident, say party strategists and political
observers, is that Palin, Senator  John McCain ’s 2008 vice
presidential running mate, would be a force if she chose to join
the fray and can also shape the contest even from the sidelines.  “If she entered the race, she automatically and
immediately shoots to the front of the pack,” because of her
fundraising prowess, support among conservatives and Tea Party
activists, and media stardom, said Greg Mueller, a Republican
strategist and public relations executive.  Whatever Palin decides, she is signaling that she intends
to influence the tone and the themes of the 2012 race, he said.  Other Campaigns  “This bus tour is going to put issues on the table that
she and her constituents care about, and it’s going to have an
impact on how the other campaigns tailor their stump speeches
and the kind of retail politics they do,” Mueller said.  Palin has spent the last three days in something of a cat-
and-mouse game with media eager to track her, yet starved for
information about her plans. Her aides have refused to divulge
her itinerary or schedule. She visited the Civil War battlefield
of Gettysburg today and continued traveling through the
politically competitive state of Pennsylvania, with a stop at
the Liberty Bell in Philadelphia.  She went yesterday to Fort McHenry in Baltimore, where the
bombardment by the British in the War of 1812 inspired Francis Scott Key to write the “The Star Spangled Banner,” a poem that
became the words to the U.S. national anthem.  Donations Sought  Starting from the May 29 veterans’ Rolling Thunder
motorcycle rally in  Washington , Palin’s first stops included the
 National Archives , where she looked at the country’s founding
documents, and Mount Vernon, George Washington’s estate in
nearby  Virginia . She has blogged about the tour on the web site
of her political action committee, the only source of
information about the trip. Visitors there are prompted each
time they access the page to donate to Palin before seeing what
she’s up to.  Washington “is my favorite founding father because he was
reluctant to serve, and yet he rose to the great challenges
before him,” Palin wrote after her stop at Mount Vernon. “Can
you tell I’m fired up?!”  If Palin jumped into the presidential race, she’d have to
give up a $1 million-a-year salary from  Fox News , where she is a
commentator, and subject her family to scrutiny that she decried
during the 2008 contest and in its aftermath.  Arizona  Home  Still, some of her recent moves, including hiring a chief
of staff and buying a home in Arizona that would offer an easier
base for campaigning around the country, have fueled speculation
that she was laying the groundwork for a run.  The bus tour comes shortly after it was disclosed that
Palin will be the subject of a feature-length documentary titled
“The Undefeated” that will premiere next month in  Iowa , a key
state in the nominating process. The director, Stephen Bannon,
said in statement last week that the film was “a call to action
for a campaign like 1976: Reagan vs. the establishment. Let’s
have a good old-fashioned brouhaha.”  In 1976,  Ronald Reagan  unsuccessfully challenged then-
President  Gerald Ford  for that year’s Republican presidential
nomination. Reagan went on to win the presidency in 1980.  Palin announced her attention-grabbing road trip late last
week as the Memorial Day holiday weekend was about to begin and
just as the Republican field was starting to gel.  Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels, former Arkansas Governor
Mike Huckabee, real estate developer  Donald Trump  and
Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour have all announced in recent
weeks that they wouldn’t enter the contest.  Republican Field  Former  Minnesota  Governor  Tim Pawlenty  formally entered the
race May 23 with an announcement in Des Moines, joining former
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia , Representative  Ron Paul 
of  Texas  and businessman Herman Cain as declared candidates.
Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney made his first visit
of the year to Iowa last week, and his campaign says he will
announce his candidacy on June 2 in  New Hampshire .  Rick Santorum, a former  Pennsylvania  congressman and
Senator, plans to jump in at an event in his home state on June
6. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota has said she
will make her intentions known in early June, perhaps in her
native Iowa.  A Gallup Poll released May 27 showed Palin in a statistical
tie with Romney for first place in the prospective Republican
race among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents.
Palin drew 15 percent and Romney 17 percent, within the survey’s
4-percentage point margin of error. Gingrich trailed with 9
percent, and Pawlenty drew 6 percent.  Charlie Black, a lobbyist and Republican strategist who
advised the McCain-Palin campaign in 2008, said the former
Alaska governor is probably seeking to keep her options open,
and maintain her influence, by launching the bus tour.  ‘A Player’  “This is the kind of thing you do to stay alive and
continue to be a player. I don’t take it as a sign she’s
necessarily running,” said Black, who is neutral in the race.
“She might have seen that her absence from campaign-types of
activities had caused a lot of the press to write her off as a
candidate and stop paying attention to her.”  Black said Palin’s “tremendous financial base” and social
media-fueled following gives her the luxury of waiting until
late in the game -- several months from now -- before needing to
announce a presidential bid.  In the meantime, Palin’s leap off the sidelines complicates
life for her lesser-known rivals.  ‘Rock Star’  “It sucks the oxygen out of their campaigns,” said Terry Madonna, a pollster and political scientist at Franklin &
Marshall College in Lancaster, Pa. “She’s a kind of rock star
to Christian and social conservatives, so that will create some
anxiety for the rest of the field who are looking for that
support.”  Foremost among those candidates are Santorum, who
highlights social issues such as opposition to abortion rights;
Bachmann, a Tea Party favorite who has tapped into a populist,
anti-government strain similar to Palin’s; and Pawlenty, who has
positioned himself as a conservative willing to take on
entrenched interests.  Palin appeals to the Republican conservative base as well
as the Tea Party, which includes independents and some
conservative Democrats, Mueller said. Mueller’s company, CRC
Communications, is promoting the Palin biography film.  “The environment is ripe for a populist, conservative,
truth-telling campaign, and I think Sarah Palin could live up to
that if she wants to run, or at least make sure that others
do,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  