-- 
Parex Reached “Accommodation” With Central Bank Over Reserves

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-05-31T14:15:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/parex-reached-accommodation-with-central-bank-over-reserves.html
Parex Banka AS, the Latvian lender
the rescued by the state in 2008, reached a “satisfactory
accommodation” with the  central bank  over the use of its
obligatory reserves, said Chairman Christopher Gwilliam.  “It’s obvious from what’s in the public domain that we’ve
negotiated with the national bank and I think we’ve come to a
satisfactory accommodation,” Gwilliam said in an interview in
Riga today, adding that details of the discussion are
confidential. “At the moment, we do not expect to be penalized
for using our own cash for making the syndicated-loan
repayment.”  The lender on May 3 used 23 million lati ($46.6 million) of
reserves it had previously held at the central bank to make a
final 164 million-lati payment of syndicated loans in total
worth about $1.1 billion that were rescheduled after the state
took over Parex following a run on its deposits. Latvia was
forced to turn to a group led by the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund  for a 7.5 billion-euro ($10.8
billion) loan after the takeover of Parex, then the country’s
second-biggest bank.  Parex’s performing assets were split from the lender and
placed into a new bank called Citadele, which the state plans to
sell. Parex plans to sell off assets until 2017 to return around
400 million lati to the state as prices recover.  The Latvian central bank initially said that allowing
Parex, which contains only non-performing or distressed assets
and makes no loans, to avoid fulfilling the obligatory-reserve
requirement would be “breaking the law.”  ‘Winding-Up Proceedings’  Central bank spokesman Martins Gravitis said the bank
cannot comment at the moment on individual  credit institutions .  The  European Central Bank  allows lenders or institutions
that are in “winding-up proceedings” authorized by a judicial
or competent authority to be exempt from obligatory-reserve
requirements.  Parex still has a banking license since “there is no
legislation that automatically allows us to give it up,”
Gwilliam said. “At the moment we stay as we are. We are working
on solutions. The biggest challenges now are to make sure that
we continue our work to ensure that we gain the best value of
our assets.”  Some of the assets in Parex may have involved “the misuse
of money,” he said without elaborating.  “It’s our responsibility on behalf of the state to
investigate any possible avenues of mismanagement or any other
malfeasance, wrongdoing in order to maximize the recovery,”
Gwilliam said.  Referendum on Parliament  Latvian President Valdis Zatlers on May 29 initiated the
first referendum in the country’s history for new parliamentary
elections seven months after the legislature came into power.
The referendum, which will contain no minimum threshold for
turnout, will be held on July 23, and could lead to new
parliamentary elections two months later.  “Now, there is a little bit of political turmoil as well,
there are various debtors that we have that may see this as
being somehow to their advantage and may redouble their efforts
to be, let’s say, uncooperative,” he said, without specifying
which debtors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  