-- 
Pemex Sues U.S. Firms for $300 Million in Stolen Fuel

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-06-02T00:06:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/pemex-unit-sues-u-s-companies-over-resale-of-300-million-in-stolen-fuels.html
(Corrects description of defendants in second paragraph of
story published May 31.)  A Petroleos Mexicanos unit sued 11
U.S. firms over claims they helped Mexican drug cartels smuggle
and re-sell more than $300 million in natural gas liquids stolen
from Mexico’s northern oilfields into the U.S.  Pemex Exploracion y Produccion claims in its complaint that
businessmen from Texas and  Utah  conspired to sell its stolen
natural gas condensate to U.S. end users, including  Plains All
American Pipeline LP (PAA) , SemCrude LP and Western Refining Co. Those
end users were “innocent” buyers of the condensate, according
to the complaint.  “All of the defendants have participated and profited --
knowingly or unwittingly -- in the trafficking of stolen
condensate in the  United States  and have thereby encouraged and
facilitated the Mexican organized crime groups that stole the
condensate,” Mark Maney, Pemex’s lawyer, said in the complaint
filed May 29 in federal court in Houston.  “As long as there is a U.S. market for stolen Mexican
condensate, the thievery will continue,” Maney said in the
complaint.  Pemex accused owners of Saint James Oil Inc. of Sandy,
Utah, and Superior Crude Gathering Inc. of  Corpus Christi ,
Texas, of knowingly plotting with a trio of American businessmen
who the company says have admitted to conspiring to smuggle
stolen Mexican natural gas liquids into the U.S.  Mexican Tanker Trucks  The Americans transferred the illegal feedstocks from
Mexican tanker trucks, which the drug gangs often hijacked at
gunpoint, into tankers and storage terminals in the U.S.,
according to Pemex’s complaint. The conspirators bribed Mexican
officials and forged documents to facilitate border crossings
and resale to U.S. refiners, Pemex alleged. More than 140
individuals -- including two border guards -- have been
criminally charged by Mexican authorities probing the scheme,
the company said.  Pemex said any U.S. firm buying Mexican condensate from a
middleman must have known it might be trafficking in stolen
property, as Mexican law has forbidden the sale of such product
by anyone other than an official Pemex broker since 2006,
according to the complaint.  Gas condensate is a pure liquid produced in conjunction
with some natural gas that competes directly with light crude
oil as a feedstock for refineries and petrochemical plants.  The Mexican agency’s suit asks that the three U.S. end
users repay  Mexico  only for the value of the allegedly stolen
feedstocks Pemex claims the firms “ignorantly” purchased
through the scheme.  ‘Knowing Conspirators’  Pemex, however, seeks to hold the other, so-called
“knowing conspirators” financially responsible for all $300
million in natural gas liquids the Mexican government calculates
drug gangs have stolen and resold into the U.S. since 2006.  Roy Lamoreaux, a spokesman for Plains All American
Pipeline, didn’t immediately return a call today seeking comment
on Pemex’s suit. Jennifer Gordon, a SemCrude spokeswoman, and
Jeffrey Beyersdorfer, the investor relations director for
Western Refining Co., didn’t immediately return voice-mail
messages seeking comment after regular business hours.  Lawyers for the owners of Saint James Oil and Superior
Crude Gathering couldn’t be immediately located.  The case is Pemex Exploracion y Produccion v. Big Star
Gathering Ltd., 11-cv-02019, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  Texas  (Houston.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  