-- 
Pentagon Cyber Warfare Strategy Drafting in ‘Final Stages’

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-05-31T17:07:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/pentagon-in-final-stages-of-drafting-military-strategy-for-cyber-warfare.html
The U.S. Defense Department is in the
‘final stages’ of drafting a strategy for cyber warfare that
refines for military commanders a broad White House policy that
equates such attacks with armed assaults on the nation.  Marine Corps Colonel  David Lapan , a spokesman at the
Pentagon, told reporters today the new “Defense Strategy for
Operating in Cyber Space,” also known as Cyber 3.0, will be
completed in two or three weeks.  The White House on May 17 announced that cyber attacks
ranked with military threats against the nation and “when
warranted, the U.S. will respond to hostile acts in cyber space
as we would with any other threats to our country.”  The White House policy did not “rule out” a military
response, Lapan said. “A response to a cyber incident to the
U.S. would not necessarily be a cyber response,” he said,
declining to give specifics.  The White House International Strategy for Cyberspace calls
for the U.S. government to work with other countries on
standards to protect intellectual property, prevent theft of
private information and ensure cooperation among law enforcement
agencies when cybercrime is investigated.  The strategy states that the U.S. reserves “the right to
use all necessary means -- diplomatic, informational, military
and economic -- as appropriate and consistent with international
law,” to defend itself and its allies.  According to the White House policy, “if we are attacked
we reserve the right to do any number of things in response just
like we do” with physical attacks, Lapan said.  “Cyber would be viewed the same way. The military option
is always an option. There are other things we can do” but the
Pentagon strategy won’t “lay out ‘if this happens, then this
will happen,’” Lapan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  