-- 
Peru’s GDP Growth Slows as Election Concern Saps Investment

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-05-31T14:46:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/peru-s-gdp-growth-slows-as-election-concern-saps-investment-1-.html
Peru’s economy expanded at the
slowest pace in a year in the first quarter amid a decline in
private investment ahead of the country’s presidential election.  Gross domestic product rose 8.8 percent in the first
quarter from the same period a year earlier, down from 9.2
percent in the fourth quarter, the government’s statistics
agency said today in an e-mailed report. The increase matched
the median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Concern former army renegade Ollanta Humala may defeat
congresswoman Keiko Fujimori in the June 5 runoff and pursue
policies that hinder foreign investment in industries including
mining and energy has led companies to shelve spending plans.
Demand for electricity and cement has weakened since April
indicating GDP growth will continue to slow in the second
quarter, said Vicente Tuesta, head of research at Prima AFP,
Peru’s biggest pension fund manager.  “Economic activity in April and May will be hardest hit,”
Tuesta said in a telephone interview from  Lima . “Investment in
construction has fallen because of the presidential race. The
path the next president chooses will determine whether there is
a rebound in investment after the elections.”  The sol yesterday dropped the most in two months, and the
nation’s stock and bonds fell, as traders bet Humala may win the
election June 5.  The currency fell 0.7 percent to 2.7736 per  U.S. dollar ,
its steepest fall since March 28, while the Lima General Index
dropped 5.2 percent to 21,217.76. At 10:40 a.m. New York time
today, the index rose 0.6 percent to 21,333.99.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  