-- 
PineBridge’s Ryan Says Investor Caution Makes Fundraising Hard

-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 
2011-05-31T11:08:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/pinebridge-s-ryan-says-investor-caution-makes-fundraising-hard.html
Rhonda Ryan, head of  PineBridge
Investments LLC ’s private equity funds group in London, said a
dearth of new investment opportunities and caution from
investors is making fundraising difficult.  The comments were made in an interview with Bloomberg News
on the sidelines of a mezzanine finance conference sponsored by
IIR Ltd. in Paris last week.  “Fundraising is difficult at the moment. There haven’t
been the same number of funds coming to the market that there
were several years ago. New fund investment opportunities have
been pretty scarce, although that’s picking up. The reason is
that LPs are restricting the amount of capital they deploy. If
they haven’t had exits and distributions there’s not the cash to
warrant making a new investment. I think GPs have also been
cautious about coming back to market - so putting it off”  “We’re typically looking for a return of around 15 to 17
percent. Mezzanine is a difficult one to get into that mix. From
what we’re hearing at the moment, pure mezzanine funds are
stretched to reach double digits in  Europe .”  “The LBO market is really busy currently. There’s still a
lot of capital to deploy and, for those funds raised in 2006 to
2008, investment periods will expire in the next 12 to 24
months. There are a lot more exits coming through and quite a
few investments being made as well. There are opportunities but
generally they’re paying pretty high prices. There’s the
mentality that a quality business is going to be expensive so if
you want a quality business you’re going to have to pay up for
it.”  “You can certainly see, looking at our portfolio across
several funds, that the general trend is up. Ebitda is up,
revenue is up, valuation is up, so things are looking a lot
better, even for the funds we expected not to perform well a
couple of years ago. There are going to be some restructurings
still to come -- you can’t keep amending, extending and
pretending forever.”  “In the secondary market, prices have narrowed quite a
lot. A while ago you used to be able to get things at quite good
discounts but that’s disappearing. Things are much more
expensive than they were before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Eeuwens in  London  
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 