-- 
Poland’s First-Quarter Growth Stays Near Fastest Since 2008 on Consumption

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-05-31T09:10:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/poland-s-first-quarter-growth-stays-near-fastest-since-2008-on-consumption.html
Polish economic growth remained near
the fastest pace since 2008 as private consumption grew more
than forecast and investments recovered.  Gross domestic product expanded an annual 4.4 percent,
compared with 4.5 percent in the previous period, the  Central
Statistical Office  in Warsaw said today. The result was in line
with the median estimate of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The economy grew 1 percent from the previous quarter.  “This is a fast growth pace,” said Monika Kurtek, chief
economist at Bank Pocztowy SA in Warsaw. “Unfortunately, it’s
probably the highest rate we will see this year.”  In  Poland , which avoided a recession during the credit
crunch, growth remains “robust” as wages rise and the
government prepares for the 2012 European soccer championships,
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said
in its global economic outlook, published on May 25. GDP may
rise 4 percent this year from 3.8 percent in 2010, according to
the government’s budget outline.  Policy makers around the world are struggling to limit
price pressures as food and fuel costs increase and economies
recover. The  central bank  boosted borrowing costs in May for the
third time this year to curb inflation expectations as higher
prices and rising employment may trigger wage demands.  Zloty, Swaps  The zloty was little changed after the announcement,
trading at 3.9580 per euro at 10:55 a.m., 0.5 percent stronger
on the day. Two-year interest rate swaps that investors use to
fix borrowing costs in the future rose less than 1 basis point
to 5.198 percent.  Economic output was driven by private consumption, which
increased an annual 3.9 percent, topping the median forecast of
3.8 percent in a Bloomberg survey of eight economists. Domestic
demand rose 4.5 percent.  Fixed investments rose 6 percent on the year, compared with
a revised 1.6 percent in the fourth quarter and an 11.4 percent
slump a year before. Still, investment growth lagged behind
the 10.8 percent median estimate of eight economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  “Six percent can be regarded as a decent, moderate pace,”
said Bank Pocztowy’s Kurtek. “Public investments are still the
driver, which means we still aren’t seeing the pickup in private
investment that the Monetary Policy Council is waiting for.”  ‘Strong’ Demand  While Kurtek said below-forecast investment growth may keep
the central bank from increasing interest rates in June,  Luis Costa , an emerging-markets strategist at Citigroup Inc. in
 London , disagreed.  “All in all, the data seems to justify further rate
hikes,” Costa wrote in a research note today. “Domestic demand
remains strong with private consumption surprising on the
upside. Investment is picking up gradually but we expect it to
rise at a double digit pace later this year.”  “The situation on the market has been improving for more
than six months and we can see it in our sales volume,”
Dariusz Pachla, deputy chief executive officer of  LPP SA (LPP) ,
Poland’s largest publicly traded clothing retailer, said on
May 11. The company increased its first-quarter revenue by 18
percent to 500.5 million zloty.  Domestic companies increased spending and capacity
utilization as foreign demand jumped.  Germany ’s economy,
 Europe ’s largest and Poland’s main trading partner, expanded 1.5
percent in the first quarter from the previous three months, the
fastest pace in almost a year.  Poland’s euro-denominated exports advanced an annual 15.5
percent in the first quarter, according to the Statistical
Office, with sales to Germany up 16.2 percent. Industrial output
increased 9.2 percent from the same period a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net .
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  