-- 
Poland Took Derivatives, Sold Euros in 2010 to Manage Debt

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-05-31T15:34:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/poland-took-derivatives-sold-euros-in-2010-to-manage-debt-1-.html
Poland entered into derivatives
transactions and sold euros on the market last year to manage
the cost of public debt, the  Finance Ministry  said today.  The ministry entered into interest-rate swaps, or
derivative contracts used to guard against fluctuations in
borrowing costs, with a nominal value of 14 billion zloty ($5.1
billion) and maturity of up to seven months, it said in an e-
mailed statement.  Poland kept its public debt below 55 percent of gross
domestic product last year, a level that if exceeded would
trigger austerity measures. The European Union’s eastern member
holds general elections in the second half of 2011. The debt
reached 52.8 percent of GDP by Polish accounting standards, the
ministry said yesterday.  The derivatives transactions cut the cost of managing debt
by 682 million zloty this year after increasing the expense by
671 million zloty in 2010, the ministry said. The deals were in
line with European Union accounting rules, according to the
statement.  The ministry also entered into foreign-exchange swaps in
euros and dollars for a period of up to three months, it said.
The trades, worth 4.3 billion euro ($6.2 billion), allowed the
ministry to obtain 17.2 billion zloty for debt payments, the
statement said.  The country also sold 1.25 billion euro on the market last
year to “use efficiently a part of foreign-currency funds that
the Finance Ministry had at its disposal,” according to the
statement.  State-owned Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which sometimes
exchanges foreign currencies for the ministry, sold euros in the
last week of 2010, traders, who declined to be identified
because information wasn’t public, told Bloomberg News on Dec.
31. The transaction allowed the zloty to appreciate to the
strongest level in more than a month, reducing the value of
foreign currency denominated debt when expressed in the zloty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  