-- 
Polish Economy Set to Slow as Private Investment Falls Short of Estimates

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-06-01T07:19:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/polish-economy-set-to-slow-as-private-investment-falls-short-of-estimates.html
Poland’s economic growth, which
remained close to the fastest pace since 2008 in the first
quarter, will probably slow as private investment lags behind
economists’ expectations.  The European Union’s largest eastern economy expanded 4.4
percent from a year earlier in the first three months, boosted
by rising private consumption and exports to countries including
 Germany , the  Central Statistical Office  in Warsaw said
yesterday. Fixed investment rose 6 percent, missing the 10.8
percent median forecast of six economists polled by Bloomberg.  “While headline growth remains strong, its composition
suggests this pace is unsustainable,” said Michal Dybula, chief
economist at BNP Paribas in Warsaw. “Investment growth was
surprisingly weak.”  Poland, the only EU nation to avoid recession in 2009,
expects economic growth to accelerate to 4 percent this year
from 3.8 percent in 2010, as domestic demand continues to
strengthen. Companies such as furniture maker  Nowy Styl Sp. z
o.o.  are less confident, putting off investments while they
await signs of a sustained recovery.  Growth slowed for the first time in eight quarters in the
first three months of the year. Gross domestic product expanded
4.5 percent in the final quarter of 2010, the fastest pace since
the July-September period of 2008.  Government Spending  The government seeks to bolster growth by accelerating
spending of EU development funds allocated for 2007-2013.  Poland 
is also upgrading roads, airports, railways and stadiums in
preparation for next year’s European soccer championships, which
it will host with Ukraine.  It’s “realistic” to expect Poland’s economic expansion
will exceed 4 percent in the second quarter, Janusz Witkowski,
acting head of the  Central Statistical Office , said today in an
interview with TVN CNBC television.  “It should be kept in mind that the contribution of first-
quarter investments to the annual result is relatively small,
and the following quarters will be key for the pace of
investment growth,” the  Finance Ministry  said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement. “We don’t know yet how much companies
contributed to first-quarter investment growth.”  Poland’s central bank has raised  interest rates  three times
this year as it sought to curb inflation, which has exceeded the
target for seven months, while avoiding “excessive” increases
that would choke off investment. The bank boosted the benchmark
rate by a quarter-point to 4.25 percent on May 11.  ‘No Investment Boom’  Jerzy Hausner , a Monetary Policy Council member, said May
23 he expects “no investment boom” and that “the end of the
monetary tightening process should be in sight.”  Investors in the  derivatives market  are betting there will
be two more rate increases by the end of the year. The
difference between six-month forward-rate agreements, used to
fix borrowing costs in the future, and the three-month Warsaw
interbank offered rate stands at 57 basis points. It was 45
basis points on May 11, the day of the last increase.  The zloty gained to 3.945 per euro as of 7:30 a.m. today in
Warsaw from 3.9489 yesterday.  Polish companies with 10 or more workers increased
investments by 2.6 percent in the first quarter. That shows most
of the total was generated by public investments, said Monika Kurtek, chief economist at Bank Pocztowy in Warsaw.  “We still aren’t seeing the pickup in private
investments” that the central bank is waiting for, she said.  Companies Suspend Projects  Nowy Styl , a Polish furniture maker, halted plans to build 
a 60 million-zloty ($22 million)  production line  this year 
because of “poor  market sentiment ,” Chief Executive Officer 
Adam Krzanowski said at a news conference in late April.  ES-System SA (ESS) , a Warsaw-listed maker of lighting systems,
suspended investment in a new plant in Dobczyce, southern
Poland, because of lower-than-expected demand for solar panels
in  Europe , CEO Boguslaw Pilszeczek said at a news conference on
May 12.  While Polish companies are expanding, they don’t want to
invest yet, said Slawomir Sikora, chief executive at Bank
Handlowy SA, a unit of Citigroup Inc. and Poland’s sixth-biggest
bank by assets. Domestic entrepreneurs increased debt by 2.8
percent to 220.6 billion zloty in the first quarter, according
to M3 money supply data from the  central bank .  “These are mostly revolving loans for current
operations,” Sikora said. “There’s no demand for investment
loans while global uncertainty and problems in the  euro zone  are
discouraging companies from long-term investments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  