-- 
Cities From London to Portland Slash Emissions as UN Climate Envoys Bicker

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-05-31T12:31:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/portland-copenhagen-tap-efficiency-to-beat-un-to-climate-fix.html
Cities from Johannesburg to  Los
Angeles  are changing street lights, insulating buildings and
promoting bicycling to slash carbon emissions as envoys at
United Nations talks bicker about binding greenhouse-gas goals.  “While national governments continue their excruciatingly
frustrating dialog on  climate change , we in the cities are
acting,”  Portland , Oregon Mayor Sam Adams said in an interview.
“It’s sheer common sense. Becoming more efficient with your
city’s energy needs means you’re also more economically
secure.”  Wracked with budget deficits and economies recovering from
recession, municipal leaders are looking for cheap ways to curb
energy consumption and help governments meet pollution targets.
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Siemens AG (SIE) , which make power generation
equipment, and energy management tool-makers Johnson Controls
Inc. and  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  are winning contracts from
cities to work on efficiency projects.  Global annual spending of $300 billion to $1 trillion on
efficiency could slash energy use a third by 2050, according to
the UN Environment Program. Former U.S. President Bill Clinton
and  New York  Mayor Michael Bloomberg this week are spearheading
a gathering in  Sao Paulo  of the C40 group of mayors to address
topics from tree-planting to hydrogen-powered buses.  ‘Lowest-Hanging Fruit’  “The lowest-hanging fruit is in the area of energy
efficiency and conservation,” UNEP Executive Secretary Achim
Steiner said. “If you look at much of the urban infrastructure
that has been built up over the last 100 years, and even in the
last 20 to 30 years, it’s extraordinarily inefficient.”  While cities take up just 2 percent of the Earth’s land
mass, they contain more than half the global population and
generate over 70 percent of its carbon emissions. That makes
them central to achieving national targets, such as  Brazil ’s
goal to cut greenhouse gases by more than a third by 2020.  “The target will be met by cities, where there’s more
energy consumption,” said Hamilton Moss de Souza, director of
energetic development at the nation’s Federal Ministry of Mines
and Energy.  The work of the mayors may prod envoys at UN talks in Bonn
next week aimed at drawing up an agenda for an annual gathering
in December in  South Africa . Those talks are aimed at setting
new carbon-emission limits for industrial nations for when
current targets under the 1997  Kyoto Protocol  expire in 2012.  While the UN talks stalled in Copenhagen in 2009, the city
itself is pressing ahead with efforts to curb emissions.
Copenhagen is working with Seoul-based  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  to test
hydrogen-fueled cars, and with Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based
Novozymes A/S to make fuel from waste, Mayor Frank Jensen said.  Talk Versus Action  “Ministers and heads of state talk a lot about climate
change, but we in the cities are the ones who have to act,”
Jensen said. “We want Copenhagen to be an international green
laboratory, and we have made a catalog of green solutions to
take to other cities in the world.”  A district heating system has helped Copenhagen cut
emissions by 20 percent in a decade, Jensen said. Dong Energy
A/S and Vattenfall AB are working on a 1.3 billion kroner ($250
million) plan to convert three plants that provide the heat to
burn biomass rather than more polluting coal, Jensen’s office
said.  Portland’s Adams said he’s in Brazil to tout “green”
loans that allows householders to install insulation and heat
pumps, paying back the borrowings through their energy bills.  Portland, Oregon Initiatives  The city is working on the home loans with  Portland General
Electric Co. (POR) ,  Northwest Natural Gas Co. (NWN)  and Pacific Power Group
Inc., according to Adams’s office.  The Oregon city also is working to contain a $41.9 million
deficit, caused by a slump in tax revenue from businesses,
especially hotels, according to Moody’s Investors Service Inc.  Clinton’s initiative in April joined with the C40, led by
Bloomberg, to bolster efforts by cities to slash emissions. The
New York mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
the parent of Bloomberg News.  During three days of meetings that begin today in Sao
Paulo, C40 city leaders will swap notes on their experiences of
fighting climate change. Attendees include representatives from
cities including Addis Ababa, Athens, Berlin, Buenos Aires,
Delhi, Hong Kong, Lagos, Lima, Moscow, Paris, Rome, Santiago,
Chile, and Yokohama,  Japan .  “Many of the things you can do to increase the efficiency
of buildings, such as improving lighting and insulation have a
very competitive investment return,” said Arah Schuur, director
of the  Clinton Climate Initiative ’s building retrofit program.
“That’s good for business as well as the environment.”  Honeywell, Schneider Electric  Among the program’s projects is a collaboration with Morris
Township, New Jersey-based Honeywell to retrofit 21 municipal
buildings in Johannesburg with more efficient lights and solar-
heated water, Schuur said. In Houston, Munich-based Siemens and
France’s  Schneider Electric SA (SU)  are refitting 271 city buildings
to cut energy use by more than 30 percent.  A U.S. plan to cut energy costs in public buildings known
as the energy performance contract already generates $3.5
billion of work for companies, according to Tom Rowlands-Rees,
an efficiency analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance. If
projects like that were rolled out globally, the market could be
more than 25 times bigger, he said.  “Energy efficiency has huge potential to help us reduce
emissions globally,” Rowlands-Rees said. “If the energy
performance contract concept could be scaled globally we’d go
from a $4 billion industry to a $100 billion one.”  Lights in  London   Landmark buildings are among those targeted for retrofits.
New York’s Empire State building, once the world’s tallest, is
remodeling to cut energy use by 38 percent and bills by $4.4
million a year, according to the Clinton initiative.  Johnson
Controls Inc. (JCI)  and  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  are working on
building at the request of the owner Tony Malkin. The city’s
deficit is projected to reach $4.1 billion, according to the
Independent Budget Office.  In London, city authorities are working with  General
Electric Co.  and Electricite de France SA to replace lights with
more efficient light-emitting diodes on Tower Bridge in time for
next year’s Olympic Games, which the U.K. capital won the right
to host after making a virtue of sustainability in its bid.
Mayor Boris Johnson last week announced plans to roll out 1,300
electric-vehicle charging points in the city by 2013.  “City governments have the opportunity to be a crucible
for low-carbon innovation with the combined clout to influence
national governments and international policy,” said Johnson’s
environment adviser, Kulveer Ranger. “Boris Johnson has made
greener transport a top priority for his administration, which
will be a key theme for us in Sao Paulo.”  L.A. to Rio  Los Angeles is also looking to LEDs to replace 140,000
street lights, a $57-million project that’ll pay back the cost
with energy savings over seven years, according to the Clinton
initiative. Los Angeles combined budget shortfalls of $895
million from fiscal years 2013 to 2015, after closing a $457
million hole for the budget year 2012, which begins July 1.  While Brazil describes its national greenhouse-gas target
as voluntary, the City of  Rio de Janeiro  has a law requiring it
to reduce emissions by 8 percent in 2012 and 20 percent in 2020,
from 2005 levels. Even so, nations must strive to reach an
international agreement, or “none of these measures will mean
anything,” said Sergio Besserman, president of Cadegom, Rio’s
sustainable development chamber.  “Any real movement will have to come through a global
agreement,” Besserman said. “Carbon must be priced, it has to
be internalized in the global economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  