-- 
Punishing Qaddafi Can’t Get in the Way of Pushing Him Out: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-05-31T04:01:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/punishing-qaddafi-can-t-get-in-the-way-of-pushing-him-out-view.html
 South African President  Jacob Zuma 
arrived in Tripoli on Monday for a private meeting with Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi . If Zuma’s intent is to persuade Qaddafi
to leave  Libya  immediately, he deserves applause. So, too, does
Russian President Dmitri Medvedev, who at the Group of 8 summit
in  France  last week announced he would send diplomatic
representatives to Libya to convince Qaddafi to step aside.  Forcing Qaddafi to leave the stage was likely made more
difficult with last week’s arrest on war-crimes charges of the
former Serbian military commander Ratko Mladic. The Mladic
capture was a victory for international justice, and showed the
importance of consistent Western pressure. Yet, by reminding
Qaddafi of what might happen if he gave up power, it may have
unintentionally complicated diplomatic efforts to remove the
Libyan dictator.  The referral by the  United Nations  of Qaddafi’s case to the
International Criminal Court last week probably didn’t help
matters, either, and was an example of the lawyers getting too
far ahead of the strategists.  If the South African and Russian initiatives are in
earnest, they need all the backing they can get. First, the
 African Union , which has long benefited from Qaddafi’s
petrodollars, will need help standing firm and insisting that
there can be no peace agreement that leaves him in office. The
failed cease-fire the union brokered in April showed the folly
of trying to cut any deal that doesn’t mandate Qadaffi’s exit.  Second, it is critical that the West increase the pressure.
Not only should NATO intensify its air campaign protecting
civilians, but President  Barack Obama  should see that the U.S.
resumes its natural place as the indispensable leader of the
Western alliance.  There is no doubt that Qaddafi deserves a trial at The
Hague and a lifetime behind bars. But if the price for ending
his war on his own people is allowing him safe haven in a
country that can be expected to block his extradition, at least
for now, it is a devil’s bargain worth making.  Click on "Send Comment" in sidebar display to send a letter to
the editor. 