-- 
Trademarkia Upends Trademark Filing Process, Angers IP Lawyers

-- B y   K a r e n   E .   K l e i n
-- 
2011-05-31T12:57:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/trademarkia-upends-trademark-filing-process-angers-ip-lawyers.html
While entrepreneurs can file trademark
applications with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)
on their own, many pay attorneys $150 to $500 per hour to handle
the complex process. Since  Trademarkia  made its debut in 2009,
the legal website has streamlined and made the task cheaper.  Its major technology innovation is a powerful search engine that
mines the USPTO trademark database more efficiently than the
government’s own search tool, says co-founder Raj Abhyanker.
“Our site lets users visually search and receive alerts for more
than 6 million trademarked names, logos, and slogans from the
year 1872 until today, all for free. The USPTO site only lets
you search from the year 1932 and it is not an easy site to
navigate.”  Trademarkia’s business model is classic upselling: Individuals
searching for trademarks via Trademarkia are urged to sign up
for a trademark-application filing service with Abhyanker’s  law
firm . After agreeing to pay $159, the user fills out the
trademark application and Abhyanker’s 20-attorney Mountain View,
Calif., law firm reviews it to determine its chance of being
granted. The total cost for a fairly straightforward, narrow
application is around $500, including the government’s trademark
registration fee of $325, Abhyanker says. His law firm brought
in $2.7 million in 2010, excluding $5 million in pass-through
government filing fees it sends to the USPTO, he says. The
Trademarkia website, established as a separate business entity
from the law firm, had around $400,000 in revenue in 2010 and
expects over $1 million this year, he adds.  Co-founded with software developer Dongxia Liu, Trademarkia’s
traffic is exploding, with more than 1.2 million monthly unique
visitors, Abhyanker says. “Trademark Insider,” a publication
that ranks trademark data from the USPTO, shows that Abhyanker’s
law firm jumped to No. 1 on its top 100 list in 2010, from 91 in
2009. USPTO data shows that in 2010, 280,649 unique trademark
applications were filed in the U.S. If Abhyanker’s firm handles
6,000 this year, as he expects, it will be responsible for more
than 2 percent of the applications filed in the U.S.  A STORM OF COMPLAINTS  In recent months, the San Francisco native has been the object
of intense criticism on blogs and forums, mostly from
intellectual property attorneys who file a handful of trademark
applications annually. Much of the fury has been registered on
blogs and boards associated with the International Trademark
Association (INTA), the professional group for trademark
lawyers. Among the chief complaints: Trademarkia’s online
agreement doesn’t adequately explain to clients that they are
hiring Abhyanker’s law firm. It charges a flat fee without
identifying problems that could make a trademark application
more complicated and costly. His volume business model
inherently deprives clients of adequate time for legal counsel.
INTA Executive Director Alan C. Drewsen declines to comment on
Trademarkia. The group’s spokeswoman, Jessica Tuquero, says that
any INTA members’ criticisms reflect their own opinions and not
INTA’s views on Trademarkia.  The opinions aren’t sugar-coated. The site sends myriad e-mail
blasts that are not merely annoying, but get basic facts about
trademark law wrong and do not adequately disclose that they are
solicitations for legal services, says Owen Smigelski, senior
counsel at Sunrider International, a Torrance, Calif., nutrition
company. Amanda Mooney, a senior associate at Irvine, Calif.,
law firm Burkhalter Kessler Goodman & George, says she works
with entrepreneurs who were confused by Trademarkia’s
publication service. One client thought he had filed three
trademark applications through Abhyanker’s firm when in fact, he
had paid $159 each to have three pending trademarks published on
Trademarkia’s website, she says. “It turned out they were sold
on paying $159 for the right to have their marks published in
this internal service that has no utility and does not establish
use in commerce rights,” Mooney says. “That bothers me.”  Abhyanker defends his qualifications, his marketing practices,
and his business model. He dismisses critical comments as the
spiteful ramblings of attorneys who are jealous of his success
and feel disenfranchised by Trademarkia’s innovations. “A lot of
lawyers are fearful because we’re changing the way the paradigm
is done. They’re making stuff up and mischaracterizing us in an
effort to bring us down,” he says. “We’re trying to uphold the
highest ethical principles and trying to upgrade the quality of
the applications.”  “HUGE LEAP FORWARD FOR EVERYBODY”  Enrico Schaefer, founding attorney at competitor Traverse Legal,
an Internet law and intellectual property firm in Traverse City,
Mich., that has closely monitored Trademarkia’s evolution, says
its search function is “a huge leap forward for everybody.” In
terms of its trademark filing services, which compete with
Schaefer’s own intellectual property practice, Abhyanker has
lowered the cost dramatically for the smallest startups,
Schaefer says. He calls Trademarkia the next logical step in the
Internet democratization process that is empowering
entrepreneurs and lowering costs for services that were
traditionally the purview only of highly paid experts such as
attorneys.  Schaefer, who previously worked at a law firm that billed by the
hour and could charge as much as $3,500 for trademark services,
established a flat fee of $1,500 when he started Traverse in
2005. He says there is “legitimate debate” about whether
Trademarkia’s unique terms and services agreement provides
adequate notice to people who sign it that they are not just
ticking off a routine disclaimer but actually hiring Abhyanker’s
law firm. Still, he dismisses “80 percent” of the griping about
Trademarkia as coming from attorneys who feel threatened. “Big,
established firms would rather keep it a good old boys’ club
where average people didn’t have legal information and had to go
to an attorney in a suit who had all the information. The legal
consumer is 100 times better off today than they were in 1995 or
2000, and things are never going to go back to the way they were
then.”  Abhyanker is now turning his focus to fighting what he calls
“ridiculous” legal challenges to startup companies by “trademark
bullies” -- large brands that routinely send cease-and-desist
letters to entrepreneurs, even when there is no likelihood that
the startup will be confused with an existing brand. In March,
an attorney in his law firm, Benjamin Ashurov, established a
website, Trademarkbully.com, as a public forum for small
companies that have been forced to withdraw trademark
applications, cease their business operations, or change their
company name under threat of a costly legal battle with a deep-
pocketed corporation. Abhyanker, 35, hopes to encourage small
companies to take a “strong position” and not back down, adding,
“the large company may back off or offer to buy the mark.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen E. Klein at
 karen@kareneklein.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  