-- 
Rand Gains to Dollar, Paring Monthly Decline, on European Union Debt Talk

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-05-31T08:36:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/rand-gains-to-dollar-paring-monthly-decline-on-european-union-debt-talk.html
The rand gained against the dollar,
paring its first monthly decline since January, as speculation
European officials will approve additional assistance for  Greece 
kindled demand for higher-risk, emerging-market assets.  The rand advanced as much as 1 percent to 6.8763 per dollar
and traded 0.9 percent stronger at 6.8855 at 9:49 a.m. in
Johannesburg. It has declined 4.6 percent against the dollar
this month, the worst performance among more than 20 emerging-
market currencies monitored by Bloomberg, and the biggest
monthly decline since January. The rand slipped 0.1 percent to
9.9193 per euro.  Commodity prices rose, emerging-market stocks gained and
the euro pared its first monthly loss since November after
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said European
leaders will decide on a new aid package by the end of next
month and have ruled out a “total restructuring” of the
nation’s debt.  “Greece, it seems, will receive its second bailout,”  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency strategists at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in a research note. “The
euro is rallying in response and so the rand might finally be
able to break into the 6.80s this morning.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
climbed to its highest level in three weeks and the MSCI
Emerging Markets stock index headed for the biggest gain since
April 20.  South Africa ’s FTSE/JSE All Share Index rose for a
sixth session, reaching its highest level since May 3.  Credit Growth, M3  Bonds were little changed after credit growth accelerated
more than economists’ expectations in April while money supply
unexpectedly slowed, leaving analysts divided about the outlook
for  interest rates .  Borrowing by households and businesses rose an annual 6.2
percent, up from 5.1 percent in March, the Pretoria-based
 Reserve Bank  said on its website today. The median estimate of
14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for growth of 5.6
percent. The broad M3 measure of  money supply  increased an
annual 6 percent in April, down from 6.5 percent in March. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey was for M3 to advance 6.9
percent.  “Despite the improvement in credit demand, we believe that
the Reserve Bank will keep interest rates at 5.5 percent, given
that the inflation outlook remains contained,” Shireen Darmalingam, an analyst at Johannesburg-based Standard Bank
Group Ltd., said in a research note. “While the South African
economic recovery has gathered momentum, the uncertain global
economic outlook presents some risk, compounded by the sovereign
debt fears in the Eurozone.”  The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 traded at 121.70 rand,
yielding 7.47 percent, unchanged from yesterday’s close. The
6.75 percent securities due 2021 traded at 89.90 rand, yielding
8.27 percent, also unchanged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  