-- 
Rand Gains Most in 6 Months, South Africa Approves Wal-Mart’s Massmart Buy

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-05-31T15:19:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/rand-extends-gains-on-massmart-takeover-approval-correct-.html
The rand strengthened the most in
almost six months against the dollar after South  Africa ’s
antitrust authority approved  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s purchase of
a controlling stake in  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM)   The currency of Africa’s biggest economy appreciated as
much as 1.7 percent to 6.8249 per dollar, the strongest intraday
level since May 11. It traded 1.6 percent stronger at 6.8335 by
4:50 p.m. in Johannesburg, the biggest gain on a closing basis
since Dec. 2, and paring its drop this month to 4.3 percent. The
rand advanced 0.7 percent to 9.8456 per euro.  The Competition Tribunal’s decision to approve the 16.5
billion-rand ($2.4 billion) transaction, on condition no jobs
are cut for two years, came after labor unions and the South
African government opposed the purchase, saying Wal-Mart’s entry
would cause a surge in cheap imports, harming local
manufacturers, suppliers and rivals. The acquisition will be
 South Africa ’s biggest foreign direct investment this year.  “Sanity has prevailed,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of
treasury strategic research at Johannesburg-based Nedbank
Capital, a unit of South Africa’s fourth-biggest bank, said by
phone. “It may encourage other foreign investors to look at
South Africa as an investment destination. That is positive for
the rand.”  The transaction may be currency-neutral as investors based
outside South Africa hold 70 percent of the company’s shares,
Massmart Chief Executive Officer Grant Pattison said after the
offer was announced in November. Still, traders bought the rand
on optimism the decision will be seen as a green light for
future foreign investment, analysts said.  Deal Significance  “The importance of the decision goes far beyond the
possible flows that the deal would generate, into what it says
about South Africa as an investment destination,”  John Cairns 
and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank
in Johannesburg, said in a research note before the decision was
announced.  Earlier, the rand gained and bonds declined after the
economy grew faster than economists’ expectations in the first
quarter, prompting investors to add to bets that the central
bank will increase borrowing costs this year.  Growth in Africa’s biggest economy accelerated to 4.8
percent from a revised 4.5 percent in the last three months of
2010, the Pretoria-based statistics office said in a statement
today. The median estimate of 18 economists was for growth to
slow to 4.2 percent. Stronger growth may boost investor demand
for South African stocks and the currency needed to buy them.  Bonds Yields Rise  “The data bodes well for South Africa’s growth prospects,
which is rand-positive,”  Johan Botha , an analyst at
Johannesburg-based Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in a research
note. “The data poses upside risks to portfolio inflows,
particularly into the South African equity market.”  The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 dropped 43 cents to
89.48 percent, raising the yield seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point to 8.34 percent. The 13.5 percent notes due
2015 slipped 27 cents to 121.43 rand, boosting the yield six
basis points to 7.54 percent.  “With the economy having grown at what seems an above-
potential pace in the last two quarters, and with inflation
gradually rising, the rationale for the current low real policy
rates is increasingly fading,” Jean-Francois Mercier, an
analyst at Citigroup Inc. in Johannesburg, wrote in a research
note. “We therefore maintain our view that the  Reserve Bank 
will soon begin to raise  interest rates , most probably in
September.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  