-- 
TransCanada Says Keystone Pipe Shut After Pump Station Leak

-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-05-31T20:45:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/transcanada-says-keystone-pipe-shut-after-pump-station-leak-2-.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  shut its 591,000-
barrel-a-day  Keystone crude  pipeline after “an issue with a
fitting” caused an oil leak at a pump station, the company said
in an e-mailed statement.  About 40 barrels spilled within the pump facility a few
minutes after midnight local time on May 29 after a 1/2-inch
segment broke, said Terry Cunha, a Calgary-based company
spokesman. The facility is in Doniphan County,  Kansas , about 60
miles (97 kilometers) northwest of  Kansas City ,  Missouri , he
said. There’s no schedule for when the system will resume
operations, he said.  “It was a fitting that broke that resulted in oil spilling
within the facility but it was all contained on site,” Cunha
said in a telephone interview. “The system is shut down and no
oil will be delivered until we completely repair the pump
station. We don’t know when the actual start date will be.”  This is the second time in a month that Keystone has closed
because of a leak at a pump station. A May 7 incident resulted
in a spill of 500 barrels of crude in  North Dakota  and closed
the line for about one week.  Inspectors are investigating the cause of the failure,
Julia Valentine, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Department of
Transportation, said in an e-mail today. “The investigation
will examine if there are similarities between this weekend’s
failure and any prior failures on the system, including the
incident which occurred on May 7, 2011,” she said.  Shippers ‘Not Affected’  Shippers on the line haven’t been affected by the shutdown
and the company anticipates that it will be able to make
deliveries for May, said Cunha.  “It’s an issue we’re definitely trying to figure out,” he
said. “We’re working with all the appropriate agencies to
figure out a restart plan and to investigate the cause of the
fittings continuing to break. We’ve demonstrated that these
incidences aren’t affecting the integrity of the pipeline but
are happening at the pump stations where we have a lot of moving
parts and machines.”  Keystone extends 2,151 miles from Hardisty,  Alberta , to
U.S. markets at Patoka,  Illinois . The system started in February
a Phase II extension to Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point
for crude futures contracts traded in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Clark in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  