-- 
U.S. 10-Year Yield Falls to 2011 Lows on Slower Economy, Index Purchases

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-05-31T21:09:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/treasuries-fall-raising-10-year-yield-two-basis-points-to-3-10-.html
Treasury 10-year note yields fell to
the lowest this year as falling home prices, reduced  consumer
confidence  and a weaker industrial reading added to concern the
 U.S. economy  is slowing.  Longer-term Treasuries rose amid month-end buying as
investors adjusted portfolios to match benchmarks.  U.S. debt 
erased earlier declines sustained on optimism that euro-region
policy makers will provide further support for  Greece . Thirty-
year bond yields fell as the  Federal Reserve  purchased $1.9
billion of Treasuries maturing from August 2029 to May 2040 as
part of its $600 billion plan to boost the economy.  “The steady stream of softer data is confirmation that
yields should be lower than previously thought,” said Dan Mulholland, a Treasury trader in New York at Royal Bank of
Canada, one of 20 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  Treasury 10-year yields fell one basis point to 3.06
percent at 5 p.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 3.125 percent note due in May 2021 rose 3/32,
or $0.94 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 17/32. The yield touched
3.0388 percent, the lowest level this year.  Thirty-year bond yields fell two basis points to 4.22
percent. On May 18 they touched 4.2 percent, the least since
Dec. 1.  Month-End Buying  Treasuries gained as some investors purchased debt to
increase the duration of their portfolios to match benchmarks at
the end of the month, such as the Barclays U.S. Treasury Index.
Duration measures how sensitive a bond’s price is to changes in
yield.  The Barclays index is expected to extend by 0.11 years for
the end of this month, compared with 0.08 years at the end of
April, according to the firm, a primary dealer.  “A part of the rally is likely due to the extension,”
said Michael Pond, co-head of interest-rate strategy in New York
at Barclays Plc. “More of it is due to the weaker economic data
we got this morning.”  U.S. government securities returned 1.46 percent in May
after gaining 1.15 percent in April, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data show. The two-month advance is the most since they
rallied 2.74 percent in July and August.  ‘Consistently Weaker’  “When the data is consistently weaker than expected and
there’s no one else to sell, and the Fed still has more buying
to do, then yields get pressured lower,” said Christopher Bury,
co-head of fixed-income rates at primary dealer Jefferies & Co.
in New York.  The gains in Treasury returns come as traders curb bets for
an increase in the Fed’s rate, with futures contracts indicating
that the odds for a rise in borrowing costs by March have fallen
to 25 percent from 44 percent a month ago.  U.S. 10-year yields climbed earlier after  Jean-Claude Juncker , Luxembourg’s prime minister and head of the euro-area
finance ministers’ group, said yesterday officials had ruled out
a “total restructuring” of Greek debt and “will try to solve
the Greek problem by the end of June.”  “There is the possibility that they could come to a
resolution that doesn’t involve a default,” said Anthony Cronin, a Treasury trader at  Societe Generale  in New York, a
primary dealer. “That’s taken away some of the flight to
quality out of the market.”  Debt Deal  The U.S. House will vote today on a debt limit increase.
The vote is designed to be symbolic, and Republican leaders plan
to use the planned rejection of a $2.4 trillion increase to
demonstrate that support for raising the debt cap without
accompanying spending cuts has waned.  “The real fireworks will start later this summer,” Pond
of Barclays said. “As we get closer to the Aug. 2 deadline, the
market concern will grow.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said he has
taken steps to prevent a federal default until Aug. 2, using
accounting measures that involve two retirement funds.  Longer-term Treasuries rose earlier after confidence among
U.S. consumers unexpectedly declined in May to a six-month low
as Americans’ outlook for business conditions and the labor
market soured.  The Conference Board’s index dropped to 60.8 from a revised
66 reading in April, figures from the New York-based private
research group showed today. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a rise to 66.6.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said its
May business barometer dropped to 56.6 from 67.6 in April.
Readings higher than 50 signal expansion and this month’s gauge
is the lowest since November 2009. Economists watch the Chicago
index and other regional manufacturing reports for an early
reading on the national outlook.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 3.6 percent from March 2010, the biggest year-over-year
decline since November 2009, the group said today in New York.
At 138.16, the gauge was the weakest since March 2003.  “Every single economic statistic is weaker than
expected,” said  Ray Remy , head of fixed income in New York at
primary dealer Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc. “It’s ongoing
and pushing Treasury prices higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  