-- 
Treasuries Head for Second Monthly Gain Before Jobs, Manufacturing Reports

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-05-31T05:44:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/treasuries-rise-on-speculation-jobs-factories-slowed-extend-2-month-gain.html
Treasuries headed for their
biggest monthly gain since August before reports this week that
economists said will show employers hired fewer workers and
manufacturing slowed.  U.S. government securities returned 1.46 percent in May,
after gaining 1.15 percent in April, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data show. The two-month advance is the most since they
rallied 2.74 percent in July and August last year. Treasuries
have surged as signs of slowing growth have spurred traders to
reduce bets that the central bank will increase  interest rates .  “It’s quite conceivable that yields will go even lower,”
said  Peter Jolly , head of market research in Sydney at the
investment-banking unit of National Australia Bank Ltd., the
nation’s largest lender as measured by assets. “We’ve run into
a lull in the economic recovery.”  Ten-year rates were little changed at 3.09 percent as of
6:43 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
The 3.125 percent note due in May 2021 traded at 100 11/32. The
rate slid to 3.0516 percent earlier today in  Asia , matching the
lowest level this year.  Treasury trading was closed worldwide yesterday for the
Memorial Day holiday.  U.S. employers hired 185,000 workers in May, following a
244,000 increase in April, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey before Labor Department figures June 3.
The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index fell to 57.6
this month, the lowest since October, according to a separate
survey before tomorrow’s report.  Less Bearish  Traders became less bearish on Treasuries through the end
of June, according to a survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc. The
company’s sentiment gauge climbed to 47 for the seven days ended
May 27 from 46 the week before. A figure less than 50 indicates
investors expect prices to decline.  Ried Thunberg, a New Jersey-based unit of the world’s
largest interdealer broker, surveyed 22 money managers
controlling $1.3 trillion.  The odds of a Fed rate increase by March fell to 23 percent
from 44 percent a month ago, futures contracts indicate.  Japan’s debt rating was put on review for a downgrade by
Moody’s Investors Service.  Faltering growth prospects and “a weak policy response”
may hinder efforts to cut the nation’s debt burden, said Moody’s,
which had put the Aa2 rating on negative outlook in February.  ‘One Step Closer’  “We’re one step closer to a downgrade, and it reflects how
we haven’t seen any political progress on fixing public
finances,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at
Itochu Corp. in  Tokyo .  Japanese bonds fell the most in 10 weeks. The yield on the
1.1 percent security due in March 2021 climbed 3.5 basis points
to 1.155 percent, according to Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker.  Standard & Poor’s  put the U.S. on notice April 18 that it
risks losing its AAA credit rating unless policy makers agree on
a plan to reduce budget deficits and the debt.  Japan’s debt, equivalent to $10.9 trillion, is the biggest
in the world, followed by the U.S. with $9.3 trillion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The largest bond dealers are finding fewer Treasuries to
sell to the  Federal Reserve  as its $600 billion purchase program
nears an end, a signal of rising demand even as the largest
buyer steps away.  The two-week moving average of bond dealers’ submissions
for sales to the Fed has fallen 37 percent to $17 billion a day
from the $27.3 billion peak in November, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Price swings have diminished to levels
last seen before the financial crisis began in 2007, helping
bonds outperform stocks this month by the most since July.  End of Purchases  Demand for government debt is increasing even as the
central bank prepares to conclude its purchases, the size of the
market has doubled to $9.1 trillion and Republicans in Congress
spar with President  Barack Obama  over the nation’s debt ceiling.
By offering fewer bonds to the Fed, dealers are signaling any
rise in yields after the end of so-called quantitative easing
will be limited and that Obama faces no impediment to funding
the $1.5 trillion  budget deficit .  “The Fed’s QE2 program finally appears to be exhausting
the supply of Treasuries that can easily come out of investor
portfolios, a bullish sign for the market,” said Terry Belton,
global head of fixed-income and foreign-exchange research at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., one of the 20 primary dealers who trade
debt with the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  