-- 
Rehn Sees Greek Solution in Belgian-Style Cuts, Vienna-Plan Bond Rollovers

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 
2011-06-01T08:26:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/rehn-sees-greek-solution-in-belgian-style-cuts-vienna-plan-bond-rollovers.html
The European Union’s top economic
official said a solution to keeping Greece solvent is combining
bold deficit cuts reminiscent of Belgian sacrifices in the 1990s
and willingness by lenders to roll over expiring bonds, adapting
what was done in Eastern  Europe  two years ago.  “Belgium is a relevant example” in showing Greece what is
“feasible and doable” in primary surplus goals, and the
“Vienna initiative has mostly given us positive lessons,”  Olli Rehn , the EU’s economic and monetary affairs commissioner, said
in an interview yesterday at Bloomberg headquarters in New York.
“The basic idea would be that banks maintain their exposure on
a voluntary basis.”  Saddled with Europe’s heaviest debt load, Greece is 
seeking additional loans after last year’s 110 billion-euro 
($158 billion) European-led package was insufficient to plug its
fiscal hole. Rehn said that while debt restructuring is “off
the table” because of the domino effect on European markets,
alternatives such as a Vienna-style fix and so-called
reprofiling were being considered.  The Vienna-style plan would aim to persuade creditors to
buy new bonds from the Greek government when existing ones
mature.  Euro Gains  Greek 10-year bonds trade at less than 55 cents on the
euro, a sign of investors’ diminishing expectations of being
repaid in full. The euro rose to a three-week high against the
dollar on optimism officials will agree on further Greek aid,
trading at $1.4448 at 9:00 a.m. in  London  from $1.4396
yesterday. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.1 percent.  European politicians have given sometimes conflicting
definitions of possibilities such as “restructuring,”
“reprofiling,” “soft restructuring” and “default.” French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said that if “restructuring” means a
failure to pay off debt, “then this word won’t be part of the
French vocabulary.”  “It must be frustrating for the so-called market forces”
to hear competing voices in the EU, Rehn said. As for policy
makers, “we are learning the hard way.”  Rehn suggested yesterday that the Vienna Initiative
program, which arrested contagion in Eastern Europe, is one
option that is gaining traction.  Vienna Initiative  The Vienna-inspired plan was a key plank in the
International Monetary Fund-sponsored rescues of  Hungary ,
 Romania ,  Latvia  and  Serbia  in 2009.  Under the plan, banks including  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA, then some of the biggest lenders in Eastern Europe,
publicly pledged to keep their units in those countries afloat
by rolling over funding and providing fresh capital if needed.  The Vienna plan has drawn less hostile reviews from
monetary policy makers than a debt “reprofiling” -- or
convincing bondholders to voluntarily accept an extension of
maturities. The re-profiling option is still be considered.  “We are also examining the feasibility of voluntarily
rescheduling, which would not create a  credit event ,” Rehn
said. “Debt restructuring is not on the table, it’s not in the
cards, it will not be part of our agenda.”  Rehn, who studied philosophy at Oxford University, said his
academic background motivated him to delve into the recent
history of some other euro members to find ways out of the
crisis.  What  Belgium  Did  With their sights on the euro in the 1990s, the Belgians
had to axe their deficit to qualify for membership in the single
currency and tackle their debt burden by undertaking sales of
state-owned companies such as telecom monopoly Belgacom SA.  At the time of the 1992 Maastricht Treaty, which laid out
the conditions for monetary union, Belgium’s deficit had shot up
to a record 8.4 percent of gross domestic product. By the end of
1997, it was under the EU limit of 3 percent of GDP.  Rehn said he was also looking for inspiration in “Banker
to the World: Leadership Lessons From the Front Lines of Global
Finance” -- the memoir of William Rhodes, former senior vice
chairman of Citigroup Inc.  “He has some experience in this,” said Rehn, who bought
the book in  New York .  European Central Bank officials have said “reprofiling”
is tantamount to default and would prompt the Frankfurt-based
central bank to refuse to accept Greek bonds as collateral in
their emergency funding operations, wiping out the capital of
the Greek banking system, the biggest holder of the country’s
bonds.  Restructuring ‘Worth it’  The ECB “might have to reconsider” its opposition to Greek
debt restructuring, Peter Bofinger, a member of German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s council of economic advisers, said
today in an interview on Bloomberg television from Munich.  A restructuring of Greek debt carries risks “but is worth
it,” he said.  Asked about the Vienna initiative, ECB Council member Ewald Nowotny said last week that while it was an “interesting
model,” it couldn’t be directly adopted in  Greece . Executive
Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said such a plan could
be “positive” though would only be part of the solution for
the indebted nation.  For now, both options are still being considered as
inspectors from the EU, the IMF and the ECB wrap up a review of
Greece’s progress in meeting the terms of the bailout.  EU Plan  The EU will then formulate its plan for further aid to
Greece, which remains shut out of financial markets a year after
the rescue package.  Rehn, a 49-year-old Finn, took over Europe’s top economics
job from  Spain ’s  Joaquin Almunia  in February 2010 as Greece’s
debt woes threatened to spread to the rest of the continent.
Three months later, EU governments agreed to a record bailout
for Greece, and a year into the job, Rehn said, “I would have
felt irresponsible if I had let Greece fall.”  Under the terms of the rescue package, Greece was due to
return to financial markets and sell about 30 billion euros of
bonds next year. With its 10-year bonds yielding 16.4 percent,
more than twice that of the time of the bailout, the EU has
indicated that Greece will need more aid to plug its financing
gap. The IMF has threatened to withhold its share of the
payments until the EU explains how Greece will be funded.  Review Concluding  “We are seeing the Greek situation, by and large, eye-to-
eye with the IMF,” Rehn said. “We trust we will together draw
a joint conclusion of the quarterly review in the coming days.”  The EU and the IMF will have to put up an additional 30
billion euros in loans to tide Greece over next year, with the
rest of its 2012-2013 financing needs covered by revenue from
asset sales and other measures, the Financial Times reported two
days ago, citing ECB Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  has announced an
additional 6 billion euros of budget cuts for this year to meet
the bailout goal of shrinking the deficit to 7.5 percent of
gross domestic product. The government also pledged to speed 50
billion euros of asset sales, mostly real estate, to pay down
debt, which is set to reach almost 160 percent of GDP this year,
the highest in the euro’s history.  The EU and the IMF have called on Papandreou to secure
multiparty support for the measures, which are part of a broader
four-year austerity package. The country’s main opposition
parties rejected the plan in a meeting with Papandreou on May
27.  ‘Credibility Test’  For Greece, time and patience are running out.  “Greece will have to stop living beyond its means,” Rehn
said. “This is a real credibility test for both government and
opposition. We need everyone to do their part.”  Rehn said he half-agreed with Jacques Delors, former
president of the European Commission and one of the founding
fathers of the euro, who said last year that now that the
firefighters have done their job, it was the turn of the
architects.  “We still have to, unfortunately, continue firefighting
for quite some time, probably,” said Rehn, adding he was aware
of criticism that the EU “takes decisions slowly and is behind
the curve.”  Asked what gave him hope that he and other current European
leaders would find a solution to their problems, Rehn said it
was the success of an earlier generation in forging a united
continent after the divisions of the  Cold War .  He recalled growing up in  Finland , neutral in the East-West
struggle, and realizing the moment when he felt that his country
had truly joined Europe: the day in 1966 his father brought home
an Opel auto made in West Germany after owning several Eastern
European cars.  “I remember that moment very well. It was a good memory,”
Rehn said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in New York at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  