-- 
Riksbank’s Ekholm Says Swedish Unemployment Still ‘Pretty High’

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-05-31T12:31:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/riksbank-s-ekholm-says-swedish-unemployment-still-pretty-high-.html
Swedish unemployment needs to come
down further before it will put pressure on prices, Riksbank
Deputy Governor Karolina Ekholm said.  “Unemployment is still pretty high, maybe not from an
international perspective, but still higher than it could be
without accelerating inflation,” Ekholm said yesterday in an
interview in Stockholm.  Ekholm opposed the April 19 decision to raise the bank’s
benchmark lending rate by 0.25 percentage point to 1.75 percent,
in part because of high joblessness. The central bank has raised
its rate six times from 0.25 percent since July and has
signaling it will reach 2.5 percent this year. The next rate
decision will be announced on July 5.  The Swedish economy grew 5.7 percent last year, the
strongest recovery in the European Union,  Statistics Sweden  said
on May 27, raising an earlier 5.5 percent estimate. Output
expanded an annual 6.4 percent in the first quarter, while
retail sales rose a monthly 1.6 percent and unemployment fell
more than expected to 7.9 percent in April.  Still, faster growth so far hasn’t translated into above-
target inflation, according to underlying measures. Inflation
adjusting for mortgage costs was an annual 1.8 percent in March,
below the Riksbank’s 2 percent target.  “It wasn’t because growth looked weak that I entered a
reservation the last time around but because underlying
inflation was on the low side,” Ekholm said yesterday. “My
judgment back then was that unemployment was on the high side
and could be pushed down further.”  Swedish companies are finding it more difficult to find
suitable labor, which could push up inflation, Ekholm said.
“This question of how much more can resource utilization rise
before inflation picks up is a very difficult question.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  