-- 
RioZim Investors Scared-Off by Zimbabwe’s Black Ownership Laws

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-05-31T09:49:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/riozim-says-foreign-investors-scared-off-by-zimbabwe-s-black-ownership-law.html
Zimbabwe ’s black-empowerment law,
which aims to increase the role of black people in the economy,
is dissuading foreign groups from investing in the country and
its companies, hindering economic growth, according to RioZim
Ltd., a gold, nickel and diamond miner.  Efforts by RioZim to raise funds to grow its operations
have been crippled by uncertainty around the ownership rules,
Chairman Tichaendepi Masaya said in a  statement  to his board on
May 24 and published on the company’s website yesterday.  Foreign investors who had shown the “appetite and
capacity” to invest in RioZim withdrew from a proposed funding
deal because of the rules, he said. Local investors don’t “have
the capacity to fund their aspirations while foreign investors
remain uncertain” because of the legislation, Masaya said.  Zimbabwe’s Indigenization and Empowerment Act gives foreign
mining companies until June 2 to show how they will sell 51
percent of their shares to black Zimbabweans or state-owned
companies. The law hasn’t made it clear who will benefit from
the disposal of shares, or how the sale will be accomplished.  RioZim believes it qualifies for indigenous status, meaning
the rules don’t apply to it, Masaya said. An application to
approve the miner’s indigenous status was rejected because of a
“technicality,” he said. The company didn’t provide further
details and calls to its head office in Harare weren’t answered.  Decade of Recession  RioZim, which is listed on the  Zimbabwe Stock Exchange ,
said on Feb. 24 that it plans to raise $40 million in a rights
offer during the first half of this year.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. and  Impala Platinum Holdings
Ltd. (IMP) , the largest miners of the metal, submitted proposals aimed
at meeting Zimbabwe’s demands last month, while Rio Tinto Group,
 Mwana Africa Plc (MWA)  and Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. could also
be affected by the laws.  Zimbabwe has the world’s second-largest platinum and chrome
reserves after neighboring  South Africa . It also has deposits of
gold, coal, ferrochrome and diamonds. The country’s economy is
recovering from a decade of recession triggered by often-violent
seizures of white-owned farms supported by President  Robert Mugabe ’sZimbabwe African National Union-Front.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at   vwessels@bloomberg.net  