-- 
Robin Hood Inspires Los Angeles Schools Chief On Poverty Battle

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-05-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/robin-hood-foundation-inspires-los-angeles-schools-chief-on-poverty-battle.html
When former Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation official John Deasy attended last year’s record-
setting  Robin Hood Foundation  gala, which raised $88 million, he
was convinced that other cities could mobilize wealthy business
and finance executives to support poverty-fighting programs.  “I was trying to understand how a sector comes together
around a whole issue like poverty eradication,” said Deasy, 50,
now the new superintendent of the  Los Angeles  school system,
during an interview in his 24th floor office overlooking the
city’s sprawl and mountains. “When we care about world issues
they can seem to be out of our hands, but a single city’s lift
is in our hands.”  Deasy, who took the helm of the 750,000-student  Los Angeles
Unified School District  last month, said he wants to help launch
a charity as early as two years from now that would “emulate”
Robin Hood.  The charity would be a separate nonprofit that wouldn’t
bear the name of the New York-based Robin Hood co-founded by
hedge fund manager  Paul Tudor Jones . Deasy said he has had
conversations with Emary Aronson, the managing director of Robin
Hood’s relief fund and education, to get advice on how to launch
a poverty-fighting nonprofit.  “We would love to work with John Deasy and share with him
everything we’ve learned over the last 23 years,” Robin Hood
executive director David Saltzman said in a phone interview.
“Nothing that we do is proprietary. I’d love for people to
benefit from what we’ve learned.  Saltzman said he didn’t want to expand Robin Hood’s mission
beyond  New York . The organization now funds about 200 poverty-
fighting programs and schools in New York.  Funding Posts  In addition to his Robin Hood plans, Deasy said he would
like more than a dozen senior posts in the school system to be
funded by philanthropists and nonprofits such as the Gates
Foundation, billionaire  Eli Broad  and other sources, rather than
by taxpayer dollars.  Deasy now heads the U.S.’s second-largest public-school
system, after  New York City , with about 750,000 students from
pre-kindergarten to 12th grade, and a $408 million  budget
deficit . The former education director of the Gates Foundation,
Deasy’s career includes superintendent posts at the  Santa
Monica-Malibu Unified School District  from 2001 to 2006, and
 Maryland ’s  Prince George’s County Public Schools  system after
that.  Donor support for a Robin Hood-like foundation in Los
Angeles would come from the city’s entertainment, advertising,
finance and real-estate executives and employees, he said.  “We have our own share of hedge-fund managers here in Los
Angeles,” Deasy said. “I think that’s the natural place to
look for support.”  Education Fund  One of his first tasks was overseeing the creation of the
Los Angeles Fund for Public Education. The nonprofit is modeled
after New York’s  Fund for Public Schools , which lets donors
decide which improvements they would like to support.  The new fund, launched on May 19, will operate separately
from the Los Angeles school system and eventually will have its
own endowment, he said. It will begin accepting donations in
September.  The fund aims to improve teaching effectiveness, student
health initiatives and arts instruction.  “This is an amazing city for the arts and we have a good
arts program that’s always in peril because the state has
historically underfunded its schools,” Deasy said. “Students
have limited access to the arts, and we want to make sure they
have a robust and well-rounded education that includes the
arts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 Mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  