-- 
Rogers Says Canada Spectrum Limits ‘Slap in Face’ for Customers

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-05-31T20:15:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/rogers-says-canada-spectrum-limits-slap-in-face-for-customers.html
Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  said any
move by the Canadian government to restrict the country’s
biggest carriers’ access to the next wireless-spectrum auction
would be “a slap in the face” to its customers.  “The government must ensure the 700-megahertz auction is
fair and open,” Rob Bruce, president of Rogers’ communications
unit, said in a speech today at the Canadian Telecom Summit in
Toronto. “This is critical to our digital economy and critical
to LTE in Canada,” he said, referring to the faster long-term
evolution network Rogers and others are building in Canada.  The government plans an auction for new spectrum in 2012 to
further stimulate competition in an industry where Rogers,  BCE
Inc. (BCE)  and  Telus Corp. (T)  have a market share of more than 90
percent. In a 2008 auction, the incumbents weren’t allowed to
bid for the 40 megahertz of spectrum reserved for new entrants.
While the government hasn’t yet set guidelines for the next
auction, Industry Minister Christian Paradis today didn’t rule
out setting aside spectrum.  New carriers Wind Mobile, Videotron, Public Mobile and
Mobilicity have used the spectrum they bought in 2008 to
introduce service in Toronto,  Montreal , and other urban markets,
offering no-frills, prepaid mobile-phone deals to consumers wary
of signing up for multiyear contracts. Rogers responded last
year by introducing its own low-cost wireless service.  Rogers fell 6 cents to C$36.94 at 4 p.m. in Toronto Stock
Exchange trading. The stock has advanced 6.8 percent this year,
lagging Telus’s 17 percent gain and a 10 percent climb by BCE.  Foreign-Ownership Rules  Bruce urged  Canada  to accelerate its plans for the next
auction to mirror the U.S. government’s schedule for freeing up
more airwaves as smartphone growth explodes. In an interview
today, he said he doesn’t expect an auction until late 2012 or
even 2013.  “It’s not soon,” he said. “Anything that moves spectrum
along more quickly, we think is critical.”  He also reiterated that any changes to foreign-ownership
rules must apply to all wireless operators, big or small, new or
old.  “It’s about a level-playing field,” Bruce said. “If you
bring on foreign ownership, bring it on and treat us all
equally.”  The government plans to appeal a federal court ruling that
overturned its 2009 decision to grant a wireless phone license
to Globalive Communications Corp., backed by Egyptian
billionaire  Naguib Sawiris ’s Orascom Telecom Holding SAE. That
move reflects a pledge by Conservative Prime Minister Stephen Harper to open Canada’s telecommunications industry to foreign
investment. By securing a majority in last month’s federal
election, Harper can move ahead with that plan without relying
on opposition support.  Greater Choice  Paradis said today in a speech at the conference that the
results of the 2008 auction are clear for all to see as “new
competitors are providing lower cost and greater choice for
consumers.”  He told reporters after the speech that he’s still
considering all options for the next spectrum auction, including
whether to set aside spectrum. Paradis declined to give any
indication of when the rules of the next sale or proposed
changes to foreign ownership might be laid out.  He said he has discussed concerns about the next auction
with executives and will make a decision that is “in the best
interest of Canada.”  America Movil  SAB, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim ,
said earlier this month it may invest in Canada if Harper
fulfills his pledge to open the industry.  “Frankly we’ve got tons of competition,” said Bruce. So,
America Movil is just another competitor, bring it on, we
welcome competition.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  