-- 
Rolet Is Confident of Winning Battle for Canada’s TMX as LSE Shares Surge

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-05-31T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/rolet-says-he-is-confident-lse-will-win-tmx-as-his-company-s-shares-surge.html
Xavier Rolet, chief executive officer
of  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , is confident of winning  TMX
Group Inc. (X)  as the biggest share rally in 10 months boosts the
value of his bid compared with a rival offer from Canadian banks
and pension funds.  Shareholders in LSE and TMX, owner of the Toronto Stock
Exchange, will hold separate June 30 ballots on whether to
approve the merger, with two-thirds of TMX investors needed to
endorse the C$3.48 billion ($3.6 billion) all-stock offer. TMX
has rejected a cash-and-shares bid valued at C$3.58 billion from
banks and pension funds led by Luc Bertrand, who helped form TMX
when he sold the Montreal Stock Exchange to Toronto.  “It’s a compelling value proposition in terms of share
price,” Rolet said in an interview yesterday. “This deal is
also about international expansion and seizing new growth. The
TMX board has now re-recommended the deal and we are actively
promoting the transaction to the market.”  LSE shares surged 13 percent in May, the most since July,
as earnings topped estimates and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  dropped
its bid for NYSE Euronext, sparking speculation the New York-
based company may look to acquire the operator of  Europe ’s
oldest independent bourse. The increase has boosted the value of
LSE’s offer to C$46.76 a share, compared with the competing C$48
bid, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Rolet declined to
comment on whether he has been approached by Nasdaq.  ‘Well Balanced Proposal’  LSE’s Feb. 9 agreement would give TMX shareholders 2.9963
shares for each they own. LSE investors would get 55 percent of
the company, while TMX shareholders would hold the rest. The
competing group of four banks and five pension funds, known as
Maple Group Acquisition Corp., began a hostile bid for TMX on
May 25 after their approaches were rejected.  “It’s a careful and well balanced proposal,” Rolet said,
asked if he was prepared to improve the terms. “You can’t
unpick an element without unpicking the whole thing. It does
represent a substantial premium to the current TMX share
price.”  TMX rose 0.2 percent to C$44.39 at 1:37 p.m. in Toronto
yesterday. LSE slipped 1 percent to 980.5 pence in  London .  Without the TMX deal, the exchange that traces its roots
back to the  coffee houses  of 17th century London risks being
left out of the industry’s biggest round of consolidation.
Valued at 2.66 billion pounds ($4.4 billion), LSE is dwarfed by
bourses from  Hong Kong  to  Sao Paulo . Under Rolet, LSE has
diversified revenue, cut costs and is trying to expand into
areas such as derivatives and bonds.  Maple Plan  The Maple plan gives TMX shareholders C$33.52 in cash plus
0.3016 of a Maple share for each TMX share. The group, which was
created for the bid, also said it aims to acquire Alpha Group, a
bank-owned operator of an alternative trading system that
competes with the Toronto exchange, and Canadian securities
clearing house CDS Inc. to integrate into TMX after completing
the takeover.  Toronto-Dominion Bank, Bank of Nova Scotia, Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce,  National Bank of Canada , Alberta
Investment Management Corp., Canada Pension Plan Investment
Board, Caisse de Depot & Placement du  Quebec ,  Ontario Teachers’
Pension Plan  and Fonds de Solidarite FTQ are financing the bid.  LSE’s proposal is “neutral and isn’t dictated by a narrow
group of clients,” Rolet said. The Maple offer will lead to
“monopoly and national retrenchment,” he said.  Clearing Business  LSE will seek to start the first interoperable
clearinghouse between  North America  and Europe after the TMX
deal, said Rolet, who’s been trying to push LSE’s clearing
business. The company said May 28 it’s not holding talks with
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., Europe’s biggest clearinghouse.  In addition to shareholders, LSE’s offer needs approval
from  Canada ’s federal government and provincial securities
regulators. LSE and TMX submitted their application to Canada’s
federal government on April 29. The country’s industry minister
has 45 days, with a potential 30-day extension, to review the
application to determine whether the transaction is a “net
benefit” to the country.  LSE will continue to seek other opportunities after TMX,
Rolet said.  “We will remain opportunistically interested if it fits
our strategy,” he said.  LSE’s full-year profit rose 68 percent as post-trade and
information and technology services revenue gained and costs
declined. Net income for the 12 months ended March 2011
increased to 151.6 million pounds from 90.4 million pounds the
year earlier. That beat the 145 million-pound average estimate
of six analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  