-- 
Khodorkovsky Should Receive $35,000 for Rights Abuse, European Court Rules

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-05-31T12:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/russia-should-pay-khodorkovsky-35-000-for-human-rights-abuse-court-says.html
The Russian government must pay
 Mikhail Khodorkovsky , the former chief executive officer of
Yukos Oil Co., 24,543 euros ($35,300) for violating his human
rights by jailing him in “inhuman and degrading conditions,” a
court ruled.  The  European Court of Human Rights , based in Strasbourg,
 France , ruled  Russia  breached the law when detaining
Khodorkovsky following his arrest in 2003. The court dismissed
claims that his arrest on fraud charges was politically
motivated, saying the accusations required “incontestable
proof, which had not been presented.”  Khodorkovsky, once Russia’s richest man and a critic of
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , was sentenced last year to
another six years beyond his eight-year prison term for fraud
and  tax evasion . The additional sentence was reduced by a year
earlier this month.  “Mr. Khodorkovsky had been kept in inhuman and degrading
conditions between 8 August and 9 October 2005,” the court said
in a statement today. “In particular, he had had less than four
square meters of personal space in his cell, and the sanitary
conditions had been appalling.”  The Russian Supreme Court said it would respond to the
decision by the Court of Human Rights as soon as this ruling
takes effect, Russian news agency Interfax reported.  Khodorkovsky and his former business partner  Platon Lebedev 
have asked a Moscow court for parole and the court will decide
in the next few days whether to officially consider it, a
spokeswoman for the Court in Moscow said.  ‘Offensive and Degrading’  “The European court recognized repeated violations” of
Khodorkovsky’s basic rights, Karina Moskalenko, one of the
former executive’s lawyers, said in a statement published on the
 defense team’s website  today. “This shows that his treatment
was illegal from the start, and that he was then subjected to
offensive and degrading treatment. This is an important step
toward finally defending his rights.”  Moskalenko said proof of the political motivation for the
cases against Khodorkovsky had been strengthened since this
first complaint was filed with the Strasbourg court in February
2004, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  