-- 
Russia, Qatar Face Pressure to Scrap Gas Link to Oil Prices as Crude Jumps

-- B y   B e n   F a r e y
-- 
2011-06-01T10:28:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/russia-qatar-face-pressure-to-scrap-gas-oil-link-as-crude-jumps.html
Russia  and Qatar are under growing
pressure from Europe’s biggest utilities to scrap a 40-year-old
system that links natural-gas prices to oil after Brent crude’s
23 percent surge this year.  As delegates from countries that hold two-thirds of the
world’s reserves gather in Cairo tomorrow for a one-day meeting
of the Gas Exporting Countries Forum, customers from  France ’s
GDF Suez SA to EON AG of  Germany  are urging producers to link
prices to spot markets instead of insisting on long-term
contracts that shadow the fluctuations of oil. Contract prices
will rise about 15 percent in the next quarter alone, according
to Wood Mackenzie Ltd., an Edinburgh-based energy consultant.  “The European contract price of gas is going up,” said
Thierry Bros, a senior analyst at Societe Generale SA in Paris.
“Utilities won’t sign new oil-linked contracts.”  Europe ’s dependency on gas is rising as the region seeks to
minimize carbon emissions and nations such as Germany turn away
from nuclear power after Japan’s radiation crisis. About two-
thirds of continental Europe’s gas is priced under long-term
contracts that lag movements in Brent by about six months,
making it more expensive than spot markets, where prices more
closely reflect supply and demand.  Spot Prices  The average price for contract gas from Russia and  Norway ,
the region’s biggest suppliers, will rise to $12.60 a million
British thermal units next quarter and $13.15 in the fourth,
from $10.95 currently, according to Wood Mackenzie. Spot prices
of U.K. gas for third-quarter delivery on  London ’s ICE Futures
Europe exchange were 59.40 pence a therm, or $9.76 a million Btu
today. Gas for delivery next month is trading at 58.45 pence on
ICE, down 4.3 percent this year.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s coalition announced plans
on May 30 for the country to exit atomic energy by 2022, after
the March 11 earthquake in Japan sparked the worst nuclear
disaster since Chernobyl in 1986. Gas produces about half the
carbon dioxide of coal in power generation, making it a more
attractive option to replace the lost capacity as the region
seeks to curb emissions.  Europe “cannot afford” a system with two prices for gas
and suppliers must design a framework that suits the European
gas industry for the next decade or more, said Jean-Francois Cirelli, vice chairman of  GDF Suez (GSZ) , the world’s biggest utility.  “Either they merge or something should happen, because it
is not possible to be supplied with expensive gas and cheap gas
in the long term,” he told reporters in Berlin on May 19.  Renegotiating Contracts  EON, Germany’s biggest utility, said its global gas unit’s
adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization fell 83 percent in the first quarter and cited
“considerable margin pressure” in its wholesale business.  The Dusseldorf-based company has already revised about a
quarter of its long-term gas purchases and “renegotiations of
the other contracts are moving in the right direction,” EON
Chief Financial Officer Marcus Schenck told analysts on a
conference call on May 11.  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-largest
utility, said in April it expects results in 2012 or 2013 from
arbitration over gas contracts.  The Gas Forum, which brings together some of the world’s
biggest exporters in the same way OPEC groups oil producers,
can’t control global production or prices for the next five or
10 years because most supply contracts are long-term, Secretary-
General Leonid Bokhanovsky said in December.  ‘Splinter Group’  The forum’s 11 members are  Algeria , Bolivia,  Egypt ,
Equatorial Guinea, Iran,  Libya , Nigeria, Qatar, Russia, Trinidad
& Tobago and Venezuela. Kazakhstan, the Netherlands and Norway
have observer status. Malaysia, Indonesia and Brunei may join as
members, and the group may talk with Australia, Turkmenistan and
 Canada  about becoming observers, Bokhanovsky said.  If the traditional practice of selling gas under long-term
contracts linked to oil collapses, it’s “entirely possible”
that some GECF members may seek to coordinate their production
to maximize prices, or concentrate on sales to  Asia  rather than
Europe, said Jonathan Stern, director of gas research for the
Oxford Institute for Energy Studies.  “A splinter group of Russia, Qatar and Algeria, possibly
joined by Egypt and Nigeria, could emerge,” he said in a
telephone interview last week.  Japan  and  South Korea  are the world’s two biggest buyers of
LNG, mostly under long-term contracts tied to crude.  China  has
imported LNG since 2006 and operates three liquefied-gas
terminals, with an additional 16 planned or under construction.  Gazprom Says Never  Spot markets don’t have enough trading to ensure adequate
supply, Alexander Medvedev, deputy chief executive officer of
Russia’s OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest producer, said May 13.  “There has never been any transition to spot-priced market
structure, and never will be, because spot market liquidity is
insufficient,” Medvedev said in Slovakia’s capital, Bratislava.
As soon as economies began to recover from the financial crisis,
“it became clear that the market will work as before.”  Qatar’s Energy Minister Mohammed Saleh al Sada struck a
more conciliatory tone, saying that the gap between spot prices
and long-term contracts is narrowing.  “That difference is closing down gradually except in the
U.S., which is kind of a captive market, well below the world
average,” al Sada said in an interview in Doha late yesterday.  Russia, Qatar and Iran hold a combined 53 percent of global
gas reserves, according to data from BP Plc. The three nations
plan to work together to develop deposits in Iran, according to
Morten Frisch, an independent liquefied-natural-gas consultant
in East Horsley,  England . While Iran exports the fuel by
pipeline, international sanctions have prevented it from
becoming an exporter of LNG.  Khelil’s Gambit  Chakib Khelil, Algeria’s former energy minister, tried
unsuccessfully last year to get GECF members to consider a
coordinated output reduction to halt a decline in spot prices
triggered by a supply glut. Algeria is  Africa ’s largest gas
exporter and the third-largest supplier of the fuel to Europe.  Rising production of shale gas in  North America  has changed
the supply outlook by curtailing the power of national  oil
companies  and state monopolies, said Alan Riley, a law professor
at City University in London.  As an organization, the GECF has yet to find its role,
Stern said. That differs from OPEC, which has a policy of
setting production quotas.  Cartel or Research Body  “They are completely uninterested in the suggestion they
may be a cartel of any sort,” Stern said. The forum sees itself
as a research body while politicians and the media are more
interested in its potential to control global gas supplies, as
OPEC does with crude, he said.  Such a move might have benefits for gas markets because
OPEC was able to boost production during emergencies including
the current crisis in Libya, said Karen Sund, the founder of
Sund Energy AS, a consulting company based in Oslo.  “It’s been useful to have OPEC,” she said. “If people
want steady gas prices and at the same time volatile
consumption, someone needs to be the elastic band.”  Delegates from GECF member states, including Libya, Iran
and Russia, are arriving in Cairo ahead of the meeting. A press
conference will be held after the conclusion of the talks
tomorrow at about 2 p.m. Cairo time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Farey in Cairo at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  