-- 
Russia RTS Stock-Index Futures Gain as Oil, Commodities Rally

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-05-31T22:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/russia-rts-stock-index-futures-gain-as-oil-commodities-rally.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
rose, signaling stocks may climb today in Moscow, as commodities
rallied and OAO Sberbank, the country’s biggest lender, posted a
first-quarter profit that exceeded estimates.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in June
rose 0.6 percent yesterday, paring the monthly decline to 5
percent. Contracts on OAO Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil
producer, fell 0.3 percent and OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-
biggest oil producer, rose 0.1 percent. Agreements on Sberbank
gained 0.5 percent.  “Higher commodity prices will be conducive to stock-price
growth for Russian companies,” TKB Capital analysts led by
Maria Kalvarskaia, the Moscow-based head of research, said in an
e-mailed report. Kalvarskaia said she is “bullish on equities
as strong corporate earnings ensure that the companies have
surplus cash to invest for growth.”  Copper, nickel, aluminum and lead rose in  London  yesterday,
and oil advanced in New York, helping push the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials up 1.1 percent.
The index fell 5.5 percent in May, after eight consecutive
monthly gains.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, rose 1.5 percent. Lukoil’s American
depositary receipts added 2.6 percent. Gazprom’s ADRs advanced
1.7 percent. Sberbank’s ADRs fell 1 percent.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, also produces
metals including steel, copper, nickel, palladium and aluminum.
Oil and natural gas account for a quarter of its economic
output.  Oil Advances  Oil trimmed the biggest monthly drop in a year on signals
the European Union will approve aid for  Greece , which bolstered
the euro against the dollar.  Crude oil for July delivery climbed 2.1 percent to settle
at $102.72 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
yesterday. Oil fell 9.9 percent in May, ending an eight-month
streak of gains.  Investors withdrew $260.9 million from Russia-focused
equity funds in the week to May 25 amid concern over future oil
demand and political risks ahead of the country’s 2012
presidential election,  Brad Durham , managing director at mutual
fund tracking company EPFR Global, said in a telephone
interview. It was third consecutive week of withdrawals.  “The outflows from Russia equity funds capped another bad
week in what has been a generally bad year for funds that invest
in the four BRIC ( Brazil , Russia,  India  and  China ) markets,”
EPFR Global analysts led by Cameron Brandt wrote in a report
dated May 27 that was released to the media today. “While funds
investing in Russia have fared well until recently, China,
Brazil, India and dedicated BRIC equity funds have posted year-
to-date outflows ranging from $449 million to $2.6 billion.”  Equity Fund Inflows  Inflows into Russia-focused equity funds this year through
May 25 totaled $3.8 billion, Durham said.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 1.7 percent
yesterday, trimming a monthly decline to 3 percent.  Sberbank’s net income doubled to 86.8 billion rubles ($3.1
billion) in the first quarter, topping the 78.3 billion-ruble
average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “With these earnings -- I expect a strong leg up into the
year end,” Kalvarskaia said in a note to clients. “The
sustainability of current fantastic earnings for 2012 is likely
to be next year’s story.”  The 30-stock Micex Index rose 1.3 percent to 1,666.3 in
Moscow yesterday, the highest since May 10. The dollar-
denominated RTS Index climbed 1.2 percent to 1,888.6.  Sberbank, which has a 12.5 percent weighting in the Micex,
climbed 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  