-- 
Russian Railways Ready to Invest $1.5 Billion in Mongolia

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-05-31T12:55:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/russian-railways-ready-to-invest-1-5-billion-in-mongolia-1-.html
OAO Russian Railways, the country’s
rail monopoly, is ready to invest $1.5 billion in Mongolia’s
train network to help the country exploit its natural resources,
Chief Executive Officer Vladimir Yakunin said.  Mongolia is expected to name the partner that will help it
expand the country’s rail network in June or July, Yakunin told
reporters today in Moscow. The country needs about 6,000
kilometers (3,730 miles) of tracks as it seeks to develop
deposits such as those in the Tavan Tolgoi coal basin.  Mongolian President Tsakhia Elbegdorj met with Russian
counterpart Dmitry Medvedev today at the Kremlin and will hold
talks with Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  later today.  Russia 
seeks to help Mongolia tap reserves of copper, coal,  iron ore 
and uranium to boost trade, which rose to $1 billion last year.  “We need large locomotive projects,” Medvedev said today
at a news conference. “If large projects are created, including
the Tavan Tolgoi deposit and others, as well as cooperation in
the nuclear sphere, they will, like locomotives, draw in mid-
level cooperation.”  Located in the Gobi desert, Tavan Tolgoi contains 6.5
billion tons of the coal used in steelmaking and may be the
world’s biggest untapped deposit of its kind, according to the
Business Council of Mongolia.  Russia and Mongolia today signed an agreement to boost the
capital of their 50-50 joint venture, AO UlanBator Railways, by
$250 million, Yakunin said. Talks to increase Mongolia’s share
to 51 percent will continue, he said.  There has been little progress on Rosatom Corp.’s venture
with Mongolia’s MonAtom to develop the Dornod uranium deposit,
 Sergei Kiriyenko , head of Russia’s state-owned nuclear energy
holding company, said today.  “Unfortunately, it is moving very slowly,” Kiriyenko
said, declining to elaborate.  Medvedev said he and Elbegdorj today agreed to speed up
joint projects.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  