-- 
Rwandan Program to End Thatched Housing Leaves Pygmies Homeless

-- B y   H e a t h e r   M u r d o c k
-- 
2011-05-31T10:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/rwandan-government-program-to-end-thatched-housing-leaves-pygmies-homeless.html
A Rwandan government program to stop
people living in thatched houses as part of a plan to alleviate
poverty left hundreds of Batwa Pygmy families homeless,
according to advocacy groups including Survival International.  The eradication of the dwellings, which began in 2008,
stepped up this year after the federal budget for the project
more than doubled to 4 billion Rwandan francs ($6.7 million),
said Augustin Kampayana, chairman of the Rural Resettlement
Taskforce. Since 2009, the state eliminated 116,000 thatched
houses and will remove the remaining 8,000 by July, he said.  “The biggest problem is that the Batwa were not told their
houses would be destroyed,” said Kalimba Zephyrin, director of
Communaute des Potiers du Rwanda, an advocacy group that works
to protect the interests of Batwa Pygmies. “It was done without
preparation or communication.”  Pygmy peoples, whose average height is less than 5 feet,
have lived as hunters and gatherers in forests across central
 Africa  for thousands of years, according to  Survival
International , the London-based advocacy group. The traditional
habitats of pygmies, who number about 500,000, are being
destroyed by logging, war and famine, displacing their
communities, the group says.  “Rwanda’s Batwa continue to face racism and discrimination
on a daily basis,” Survival said in a May 25 e-mailed statement.
“Most eke out a meager living as wage laborers or potters after
their communities were forced from their forest homes to create
national parks free from human habitation.”  Snake Bites  The program being carried out by the Rwandan government
aims to alleviate poverty by moving people into organized
villages, allowing farmers to increase production on
consolidated, fertilized lands and improve the health and safety
of communities, Kampayana said. Thatched houses, he said, are
prone to fires and leaks and residents are vulnerable to bites
from insects and snakes.  “There is a lot people gain by living in villages rather
than scattered around in those houses that are not decent,” he
said in a May 27 interview in Kigali,  Rwanda ’s capital.  Of the 8,000 Batwa families in fixed homes in Rwanda, as
many as 80 percent were living in thatched houses last year,
according to Zephyrin. Most of those people have been given
replacement homes or news roofs, he said in a May 25 interview.
Many others were forced to evacuate their homes without the
resources to find a new place to live, he said.  “At first, they refused, but then they were forced by
police, army and local security forces,” he said. “The Batwa are
all poor, so they had nowhere to go.”  ‘Cramped’ Housing  Most moved into “cramped” government housing or temporary
residences provided by international organizations, Zephyrin
said. About 450 families continue to camp in the open, waiting
for new government homes, he said.  In Bidudu, a small cluster of houses occupied by Batwa
people in the countryside outside of Kigali, residents including
Cecilia Nyiranteziryayo, a 29-year-old mother of five, said most
of their houses were destroyed or damaged when local authorities
removed the thatched roofs off their mud and stone homes in
February. And while the structures still standing were given
sheet metal roofs, those that fell remain piles of rubble.  When asked if the Batwa people were being treated
differently than the majority of people who are either ethnic
Hutu or Tutsi, Kampayana said that the Rwandan government
neither recognizes ethnicities, nor discriminates against them.  Since Rwanda’s genocide in 1994, when 800,000 ethnic Tutsis
and moderate Hutus died in a 100-day slaughter by extremist
Hutus, the government has instituted a justice and
reconciliation program that includes eliminating the formal
acknowledgement of ethnicity. The Batwa Pygmies are known as a
“historically marginalized people” in the country.  “For us, as a government, we are all one person,” he said.
“We are all Rwandese.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Murdock in Kigali via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 