-- 
Rwanda Genocide Courts Denied Victims Fair Trials, Human Rights Watch Says

-- B y   H e a t h e r   M u r d o c k
-- 
2011-05-31T12:32:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/rwanda-genocide-courts-denied-victims-fair-trials-human-rights-watch-says.html
Rwanda ’s government should review its
community-based gacaca court system, which tried cases related
to the country’s 1994 genocide, to probe alleged miscarriages of
justice, Human Rights Watch said.  The system denied some defendants a fair trial and the
courts were sometimes corrupt or used for political or personal
gain, the New York-based advocacy group said in a report
released today in Kigali, Rwanda’s capital.  “Many of these shortcomings can be traced back to the
single most significant compromise made in choosing to use
gacaca to try genocide cases: the curtailment of the fair trial
rights of the accused,” it said.  Literally meaning “justice on the grass,” the gacaca
courts were set up after 800,000 ethnic Tutsis and sympathetic
Hutus were slaughtered by extremist Hutus in a genocide in 1994.
Based on traditional Rwandan courts, the gacaca hearings take
place in communities and the accused are encouraged to confess
their crimes in exchange for a reduced sentence.  “If you have unfair trials whereas a large percentage of
the population perceives the trials to have been flawed, or
motivated by private interests or even political interests, that
doesn’t serve justice in the long term,” Leslie Haskell, a  Human
Rights Watch ’s Africa division researcher and author of the
report, said in an interview.  Rwanda’s government said the title of the report, Justice
Compromised: The Legacy of Rwanda’s Community-Based Gacaca
Court, “distorts the image of gacaca” and misrepresented the
contents of the report in an attempt to “grab headlines.”  ‘Great Achievement’  “Through gacaca we have been able to judge and resolve more
than 1 million dossiers, a great achievement that would have
been impossible otherwise,” Justice Minister Tharcisse Karugarama said in an e-mailed statement.  The report also praised the gacaca system, saying it
provided swift justice, helped families find victims’ remains
and encouraged community participation.  “Gacaca may have also helped some of victims find a way to
live peacefully with neighbours who may have perpetrated crimes
against them or their families,” it said.  With more than a million suspects, the courts began hearing
cases in 2005. Trying that many cases in the national courts was
believed to need hundreds of years, said Haskell. She said she
hoped Rwanda’s government would set up special courts to revisit
about 100 cases that have been identified as flawed.  “The government has acknowledged that they may need to
review cases,” Haskell said. “There are cases with no evidence,
and cases where judges were bought off.”  The report also said the courts delivered uneven justice by
refusing to hear war crimes cases against members of the Rwandan
Patriotic Front, Rwanda’s ruling party, largely credited for
ending the genocide and stabilizing the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Murdock in Kigali via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 