-- 
Ryan Says Rich Should Pay More as Sanders Defends Entitlements for Wealthy

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-05-31T04:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/ryan-says-rich-should-pay-more-as-sanders-defends-entitlements-for-wealthy.html
Bernie Sanders, the U.S. Senate’s
only avowed socialist, may be the chamber’s fiercest advocate of
taxing the rich to cut the federal deficit. That doesn’t mean he
wants to reduce their Social Security and Medicare benefits.  Representative  Paul Ryan , the Republican chairman of the
House Budget Committee, wants to give the wealthy big tax breaks
to encourage them to invest and create jobs. He also wants to
take away many of their retirement benefits.  Lawmakers who have spent years battling over taxing high-
earning Americans are trading places when it comes to cutting
their entitlements. Democrats say Social Security and Medicare
have endured because they offer benefits to people of all
incomes, and accuse Republicans of trying to kill the programs
by stripping away their beneficiaries, beginning with the rich.
Republicans say the fairest way to curb the deficit is to scale
back the programs for those who need them least.  “It’s a weird political dynamic,” said Andrew Biggs, a
former deputy commissioner of the  Social Security Administration 
and now a resident scholar at the  American Enterprise Institute .  With polls showing the public supports limiting benefits to
the wealthy, and some Democratic leaders signaling a willingness
to consider the idea, the rich may face cuts as lawmakers debate
how to curb the national debt.  “It’s inevitable,” said  Bob Bixby , head of the Arlington,
Virginia-based Concord Coalition, which promotes balanced
budgets. “I understand the Democrats’ arguments. I just don’t
think it holds up in the face of the fiscal challenges that we
have.”  ‘Welfare Program’  Sanders, 69, said the debate isn’t just about numbers.  “The strength of Social Security and Medicare is that
everybody is in,” the Vermont independent said in an interview.
“Once you start breaking that universality and you say that if
you’re above a certain income, two years later that income goes
down and 10 years later it becomes a welfare program.”  Republicans say the waves of retiring baby boomers, as well
as increasing health-care costs, are the real threats to the
programs because the benefits are unsustainable.  “The thing that tears the social contract is insolvency,”
said Ryan, 41, a Wisconsin Republican. “Means-testing is an
obvious solution to our fiscal problems,” he said. “The
alternative is everybody gets cut, so why don’t we put the money
where it should go -- to the people who need it.”  The arguments divide Democrats, with some saying they are
open to the idea even as they reject Republicans’ specific
proposals.  ‘Legitimate Question’  “I’ve had a lot of people who are very wealthy and retired
who ask me why they continue to receive a full Social Security
check,” said Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s
second-ranking Democrat. “It’s a legitimate question.”  Durbin, a member of a group of lawmakers who’ve sought to
hash out a deficit-reduction plan, said, “We have to
acknowledge that some in the highest-income categories, frankly,
can take care of themselves.”  Representative Steny Hoyer of  Maryland , the House’s No. 2
Democrat, said, “I don’t adopt the premise that you’ve got to
treat  Ross Perot  the same as Mr. and Mrs. Jones, who are making
$40,000 a year.”  Though public opinion polls show that cutting entitlements
is unpopular, there is support for paring them for the affluent.
A December Bloomberg News poll found that while 82 percent said
they oppose cutting Medicare benefits to help reduce the deficit,
67 percent favored curbing the program for the wealthy.  Make Gates Pay  Political strategist  Karl Rove  urged Republicans to
emphasize plans to lower Medicare benefits for the rich in the
wake of their surprise loss of a New York House seat that has
been blamed on Ryan’s proposal to overhaul the program.  “The populist note is especially important,” Rove wrote
in a May 26 column in the Wall Street Journal. “When he starts
receiving Medicare, Bill Gates should bear a greater share of
his health-care costs than the less healthy or less wealthy.”  Advocates of making the rich pay more for entitlements say
they merely want to expand elements of the programs that are
already progressive. Wealthier Americans currently receive fewer
Social Security benefits while paying higher Medicare premiums
for doctor visits and  prescription drugs .  “For those who have substantial means, you can pay your
own premium,” House Speaker  John Boehner  said earlier this
month at the Economic Club of  New York . “There is no reason why
we should subsidize Pete Peterson’s premium,” he said,
referring to the billionaire co-founder of Blackstone Group LP.  More Progressive  About 45 percent of the $500 billion Medicare program is
currently financed with general  tax revenue , with the remainder
coming from a special  payroll tax  and individual beneficiaries’
premiums, according to a  report  by the Medicare trustees.  Though much of the public debate over House Republicans’
plans to overhaul Medicare has focused on their calls to
privatize the program by providing subsidies to help seniors buy
private health insurance, they are also proposing making it more
progressive with deep cuts in aid to the well-off.  Those whose earnings put them in the top 2 percent of
incomes -- at least $428,000 for couples -- would receive 70
percent less in subsidies, according to Ryan’s office and a
Congressional Budget Office  analysis  of his plan. The next 6
percent, earning about $320,000, would receive half as much as
everyone else.  “There’s only so much money to go around,” Ryan said.
“Wealthier people are going to pay more.”  A Ryan spokesman said he didn’t have estimates of how much
those elements of his budget-overhaul plan would save.  ‘Down Payment’  Chuck Blahous, who sits on the Medicare and Social Security
boards of trustees, said the programs’ long-term budget
shortfalls are so vast that targeting the rich won’t produce
much more than a “down payment” toward ensuring their solvency.  Still, he said, it should be an area of compromise because
it would offer Republicans a chance to cut spending while
enabling Democrats to say they are protecting the vulnerable.  “It’s something that actually serves what both parties say
they want to do, and you can make progress on the deficit at the
same time,” Blahous said.  Representative Henry Waxman, the top Democrat on the Energy
and Commerce Committee, which oversees parts of Medicare, said
charging the wealthy more would make the program uncompetitive
with private insurance. The California congressman said
lawmakers ought to focus instead on squeezing out inefficiencies.  “If you put too much of a burden on wealthier seniors, who
are basically healthy, they’ll go out and buy some other
insurance,” he said. “The objective should be how to figure
out how to hold down health-care costs” through “innovative
delivery” rather than “simply just making arbitrary cuts.”  Representative James McDermott, a Washington Democrat, said
providing benefits to those who don’t need them is a small price
to pay to ensure the programs are available to everyone else.  “I don’t worry about paying a few benefits to  Warren Buffett  or  Bill Gates ,” he said. “As long as we make
absolutely sure we got public support” for the programs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  