-- 
South Africa’s Zuma Says Libya’s Qaddafi Not Prepared to Leave Country

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-05-31T15:09:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/s-africa-s-zuma-says-libyan-leader-qaddafi-not-prepared-to-leave-country.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  insists
on remaining in the country and his personal safety is “of
concern,” South African President  Jacob Zuma  said.  In a meeting with Zuma in the Libyan capital, Tripoli,
yesterday, Qaddafi “emphasized that he was not prepared to
leave, despite the difficulties,” Zuma said in an e-mailed
statement today after returning to  South Africa . “Nothing other
than a dialogue among all parties in Libya can bring about a
lasting solution.”  An air campaign by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
has “largely paralyzed” the regime’s military command-and-
control structure, NATO spokeswoman Oana Lungescu told reporters
at alliance headquarters in Brussels today. Soldiers and
officers are defecting “in droves,” she said.  Pressure on Qaddafi also increased this week with  Russia 
for the first time saying the Libyan leader has lost legitimacy
and must leave power. More than three months of fighting between
troops loyal to Qaddafi and opponents of his four-decade rule
has cut the country’s oil exports and left rebels mostly in
control in the east.  The rebels rejected a plan put forward by the  African Union 
last month because it didn’t require Qaddafi’s exit. Jalal el-
Gallal, a spokesman for the  National Transitional Council , said
today they haven’t changed their position. “Any solution must
include the immediate departure of Qaddafi, his family and his
inner circle,” he said in a phone interview.  Air Attacks  U.K. jets yesterday destroyed five heavy transporters
carrying main battle tanks near the town of Zlitan, west of the
rebel-held city of Misrata, the Ministry of Defense said today.  While in  Libya , “Zuma was taken on a tour to see the
destruction caused by the campaign and the deepening
humanitarian crisis,” according to the statement. Qaddafi
expressed anger over the bombings, “which claimed the lives of
his son and grandchildren and continue to destroy property.”  Reports that Qaddafi’s youngest son, Saif al-Arab, and
three grandchildren died in an allied airstrike on Tripoli last
month appear to be “propaganda,” Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said on May 25, citing information from  Italy ’s
intelligence service.  Italy has agreed to supply funding and fuel to Libya’s
rebels through bank UniCredit SpA and energy company Eni SpA
using export credits backed by frozen regime assets, Foreign
Minister  Franco Frattini  said at a news conference in Benghazi
today.  Frozen Assets  “We’ve taken a commitment with Eni and UniCredit to
provide for the needs of the Libyan people through” the
National Transitional Council “with an enormous quantity of gas
and a huge sum of money,” Frattini said.  The funding will be guaranteed by frozen Libyan assets in
Italy that amount to “billions of euros that don’t belong to
the regime but to the Libyan people,” he said.  Zuma had been hoping to secure an “immediate cessation of
all hostilities,” humanitarian help for civilians, guarantees
on the protection of foreigners, and a plan for political
changes which would pave the way for a lasting peace, Zuma’s
office said last week.  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  will hold talks in Moscow
on June 6 with his counterpart from the African Union, the
Kremlin said today, without elaborating.  Russia abstained from the United Nations Security Council
vote in March that authorized military intervention by the U.S.
and its allies in Libya. It later accused NATO of violating the
resolution by backing anti-Qaddafi rebels and causing civilian
casualties with its air campaign.  Qaddafi accepts there must be a resolution of the crisis
and wants the bombings to stop “before anything can happen,”
Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, South African Minister of International
Relations and Cooperation, said today. “That is also the AU’s
call.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 