-- 
Colombia Central Bank Should Hold Interest Rate Steady at 4%, Santos Says

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-06-01T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/santos-calls-on-colombia-central-bank-to-hold-rate-at-4-to-foster-growth.html
Colombia President  Juan Manuel Santos 
said the central bank risks stifling economic expansion if it
doesn’t hold the nation’s benchmark rate at 4 percent.  Santos, who spoke to reporters in Bogota yesterday, said
the bank should trust the government to produce strong economic
growth with low inflation. The  central bank  increased the
benchmark lending rate a quarter-point to 4 percent May 30 as
bank lending and consumer spending fuels faster-than-expected
growth.  “Inflation is a tax on the poor,” said Santos, a former
finance minister. “We ask the central bank to believe in the
government’s economic policy and its structural changes that
will allow us to grow at fast rates with slow inflation.  “In my calculations, the board should reach 4 percent,”
said Santos. “It’s a very respectful request.”  The central bank expects gross domestic product this year
to reach close to 5 percent. JPMorgan Chase & Co. earlier this
month raised its 2011 economic growth forecast for  Colombia  to
4.9 percent, up from 4.5 percent, after the most recent retail
sales and industrial production figures beat expectations.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. this year has raised its forecast
to 5.5 percent from 4.6 percent and Morgan Stanley has raised
its forecast for growth to 4.9 percent from 4.4 percent.  Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry, president of the
bank’s seven-member board, said he would take Santos’s proposal
to the next monetary policy meeting scheduled for June 17.  Santos said that Moody’s Investor Service’s decision to
raise Colombia’s credit rating to investment grade “confirmed
that the economic policy is serious and responsible.”  Moody’s upgraded Colombia today to Baa3, the lowest level
of investment grade, from Ba1. The move puts Colombia’s rating
on par with  Brazil ,  Peru  and  Panama .  Standard & Poor’s  raised
Colombia to investment grade two months ago.  ‘Difficult Position’  “These comments put the central bank in a difficult
position,” wrote  Alberto Ramos , an economist with Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in  New York , in a research note yesterday.  “If the bank stops the rate hiking cycle in June it could
be susceptible to the criticism that the decision was not borne
out of straight technical analysis on the balance of risks to
growth and inflation outlook but that it was rather a decision
to accommodate the wishes of the government,” Ramos wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Jameson at 
 rjameson@bloomberg.net  