-- 
Saudi Arabia to Japan Tanker Rates Fall as Holidays Cut Demand

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-05-31T17:10:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/saudi-arabia-to-japan-tanker-rates-fall-as-holidays-cut-demand.html
The cost of shipping Middle East oil
to  Asia , the world’s busiest route for supertankers, slid for a
second session after holidays in the U.S. and U.K. cut demand.  Charter rates for very large crude carriers, or VLCCs, on
the industry’s benchmark  Saudi Arabia  to Japan route fell 0.1
percent to 52.15 Worldscale points, the  Baltic Exchange  in
London said today. Returns from the route declined 0.8 percent
to $7,436 a day.  Demand slowed after holidays in both the U.S. and U.K.
yesterday, Frode Morkedal, an analyst at Oslo-based investment
bank RS Platou Markets A/S said in an e-mailed report today.  Owners are operating in a market where the fleet of ships
is growing at more than twice the speed of demand expansion.
The global tanker fleet will expand 7.4 percent this year,
compared with 3.2 percent growth in demand, according to the
research unit of Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in  London  to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  Each flat rate assessment gives owners and oil companies a
starting point for negotiating hire rates without having to
calculate the value of each deal from scratch.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, an overall measure of crude-
oil transportation costs that includes ships smaller than VLCCs,
slipped 1.4 percent to 761 points, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net  