-- 
SEB Wins U.S. Supreme Court Patent Fight With Global-Tech

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-05-31T17:17:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/seb-wins-u-s-supreme-court-patent-fight-with-global-tech.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court , in a decision
limiting the rights of some patent holders, upheld a $5 million
award against a home appliance maker for persuading retailers to
sell a copycat version of an SEB SA deep fryer.  The 8-1  ruling  set a high bar for claims that one company
induced another to infringe a patent, while saying SEB met that
standard in its suit against Hong Kong-based  Global-Tech
Advanced Innovations Inc. (GAI)  The majority said the patentholder
must prove the defendant knew about the infringement or at least
was “willfully blind” to it.  The ruling will help companies that make mobile phones or
design software, said Edward Reines, a patent lawyer with Weil
Gotshal & Manges. Because those products can be used in a
“gazillion ways,” including some that would infringe a patent,
manufacturers were at risk of liability when they encouraged
customers to use various features, Reines said.  “This is a big deal,” said Reines, who filed a brief on
behalf of companies including  Red Hat Inc. (RHT) ,  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
Yahoo! Inc.,  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  “In a world with
products that are so versatile and flexible, a higher standard
to prove inducement of infringement makes sense.”  The case divided businesses along what have become familiar
lines in patent cases -- with large technology companies
including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  urging limits on
infringement suits, and the drug industry arguing for robust
patent protection.  Deep Fryers  Global-Tech’s Pentalpha unit sold deep fryers to compete
with ones sold under the T-Fal name by SEB, a home appliance
maker based in Aix-en-Provence, France. A jury found that
Pentalpha directly infringed the patent and also caused
infringement by customers Montgomery Ward and Fingerhut.  A U.S. appeals court  upheld  the jury finding last year,
saying Pentalpha had a “deliberate indifference” as to whether
its fryers would infringe the SEB patent.  Writing for the Supreme Court, Justice  Samuel Alito  said
the lower court standard made it too easy for patentholders to
win suits alleging inducement to infringe.  At the same time, Alito said SEB met the Supreme Court’s
new standard. SEB proved to a jury that a Global-Tech unit
“took deliberate steps to avoid knowing” that it was selling a
knockoff version of a patented SEB fryer, Alito wrote.  In developing its fryer, Pentalpha bought an SEB fryer in
Hong Kong and copied its “cool touch” features, Alito said.
Pentalpha never told its lawyer that it had copied the design,
and the lawyer later issued a written opinion that the fryer
didn’t violate any of the patents he had uncovered, Alito said.  Justice  Anthony Kennedy  was the lone dissenter.  The case is Global-Tech Appliances v.  SEB SA (SK) , 10-6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 