-- 
SEC Employee Fell for Scam, Misled Investors

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-31T23:08:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/sec-employee-fell-for-scam-misled-investors.html
A Securities and Exchange Commission
worker who was a victim in an alleged Ponzi scheme gave fellow
investors false and misleading information that could have
hindered investigation of the fraud, the agency’s watchdog said.  The employee, based at SEC headquarters in  Washington ,
shared nonpublic information with several investors during the
agency’s investigation and litigation of the case, Inspector
General H. David Kotz said in his semiannual report to Congress
released today. The report didn’t identify either the SEC
employee or the firm accused of conducting the fraud.  Kotz opened his probe in February after a senior SEC
official said the employee had told investors the company was
legitimate and that people “would be receiving considerable
sums of money,” according to the report. Investors knew the man
worked at the SEC and believed he had knowledge of the probe,
according to the report.  “His conduct not only confused certain investors and gave
them a false sense of hope, but it also had the potential to
adversely affect an ongoing enforcement investigation,” Kotz
said in the report. The employee was placed on administrative
leave, and Kotz referred the matter for disciplinary action “up
to and including dismissal,” according to the report.  The SEC sued the firm on Oct. 6 and won a judgment on Feb.
14, according to the report. Imperia Invest, a Web-based entity
with a fictitious Bahamian address, was ordered to pay more than
$15 million in a default judgment on Feb. 14 after failing to
respond to the SEC’s lawsuit, according to court documents.  FBI Informant  Kotz also reported a separate probe in which another SEC
employee was accused of revealing the identity of an FBI
informant to a witness in an investigation. The FBI complained
that an attorney in one of the SEC’s regional offices revealed
who the FBI was using as an informant and how the person was
recording conversations with subjects of the investigation.  The inspector general recommended disciplining the SEC
employee, who denied the accusation, according to the report.
The agency hasn’t acted on that recommendation, the report said.  Elsewhere in the report, Kotz summarized the status of
other ongoing investigations, including one involving former SEC
general counsel David M. Becker. Kotz said his office has
searched 1.7 million e-mails and is beginning witness interviews
to determine whether Becker violated conflict-of-interest rules.  Sued by Trustee  Becker, who rejoined the SEC in 2009 after the Bernard Madoff  Ponzi scheme  unraveled, has been sued by the trustee
liquidating the jailed money manager’s business over profits he
inherited from his parents’ Madoff account. Becker helped set
SEC policy stemming from the case before leaving in February.  The inspector general’s staff has met with congressional
investigators on the Becker probe and plans to issue findings
before Sept. 30, according to the report.  The report also details new cases of agency employees and
contractors viewing pornography on SEC computers, following
reports last year that 30 workers had improperly used agency
computers for that purpose in the preceding five years.  An accountant based at the agency’s Washington headquarters
“successfully accessed numerous sexually explicit photographs
from his SEC computer, including graphic depictions of sexual
acts” -- often during normal work hours, according to the
report. Managers recommended that he be fired, the report said.  ‘Inappropriate Images’  Two Washington-based attorneys were also accused of
accessing pornography at work. One of them resigned, according
to the report, and management recommended that the other -- who
used an SEC computer to access “inappropriate images of
partially or fully nude women” -- be fired.  In another case, a contractor was fired and escorted from
the building after admitting he had been viewing pornography on
his SEC computer for at least a year, even as he’d received
computer training and notices that such behavior was banned.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said last year that she was
“angry and frustrated that a very few individuals have
demonstrated that they are willing to place the credibility of
the SEC at risk.”  John Nester , a spokesman for the 3,748-employee agency,
declined to comment on the inspector general’s investigations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  