-- 
Serbia Extradites Mladic to The Hague

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-05-31T15:34:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/serbia-extradites-mladic-to-the-hague.html
Serbia extradited war-crimes suspect
Ratko Mladic and put him on an airplane to the United Nations
War Crimes Tribunal in  The Hague , where he will stand trial for
crimes against humanity and genocide, Justice Minister Snezana
Malovic said.  “Ratko Mladic has been extradited to The Hague tribunal
this afternoon,” Malovic said at a press conference in Belgrade
today. Malovic said the order is proof that “we are sticking
with our pledges and Serbia is sincerely committed to completing
cooperation with The Hague Tribunal.”  Mladic, 69, was arrested on May 26. Before Malovic’s
announcement, military jeeps were shown on state television
station RTS leaving the Belgrade courthouse where Mladic’s
appeal was heard and later entering the city’s airport.  The extradition order followed a Serbian court’s rejection
of an appeal by his lawyers, upholding an earlier ruling that he
be sent to the international tribunal.  Mladic’s arrest and extradition are on the list of
conditions needed to convince the EU that  Serbia  is ready to
become a candidate and get a date for the start of membership
talks by the end of this year. His lawyer and family insist the
the former Bosnian Serb general’s health is poor and he may not
live through a trial.  Mladic, who was indicted for his alleged role in the siege
of Sarajevo and the Srebrenica massacre, evaded capture for 16
years. He has denied the charges against him, including those of
genocide.  Police authorities shut down streets in large parts of
Belgrade and the route to the airport before the announcement on
concern about potential rioting by pro-Mladic demonstrators.
Mladic’s son left the courthouse without making a statement to
reporters, according to  RTS .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Misha Savic at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net  