-- 
Shipping Rates Seen Dropping as French Wheat Cargoes Sink: Freight Markets

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 
2011-06-01T13:40:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/shipping-rates-seen-dropping-as-french-wheat-cargoes-sink-freight-markets.html
The 59 percent drop in French wheat
shipments in the past two months means no return to panic buying
from northern African nations and a 25 percent slump in freight
costs in the third quarter.  Shipments from Rouen,  France ’s biggest grain hub, fell to
99,585 metric tons in the week ended May 25, from 242,187 tons
at the end of March, port data show. Third-quarter rates for
handysizes, the ships most commonly used at Rouen, will drop to
$8,600 a day, from $11,486 now, said Martin Korsvold from Pareto
Securities AS, whose ratings on shipping lines returned 15.8
percent in a year. Investors are anticipating no such decline in
wheat, with futures on the Chicago Board of Trade, a global
benchmark, predicting rising prices for at least two more years.  European farmers are contending with the driest growing
season in three decades and there is drought in parts of China
and the U.S. At the same time, Russia and Ukraine are easing
export curbs and harvests from Egypt to Morocco are forecast to
expand. Northern African nations can also rely on stockpiles
built up at the start of this year as they sought to quell riots
that erupted as food prices rose to a record.  “They bought enough in January and February to see them
through to the harvest,” said David Eudall, an analyst at the
Home-Grown Cereals Authority, an industry-funded crop researcher
in Kenilworth,  England . “There was no fundamental reason to buy
the amounts they did, it was purely a reaction to the political
situation and food inflation. It was panic buying.”  Grain Exports  Rolling four-week grain exports to northern Africa from
France, the world’s second-biggest wheat exporter behind the
U.S., were last at 352,220 tons, compared with 696,746 tons at
the end of March, the Rouen data show.  French wheat futures rose 80 percent in the past 12 months
as Russia, formerly the second-biggest wheat exporter, banned
shipments after its worst drought in at least a half century.
Ukraine, once the world’s largest barley exporter, imposed
quotas on its sales. Those curbs spurred importers such as
 Egypt , which buys more wheat than any other nation, to seek
supply elsewhere, driving French grain exports to a record.  Russia said May 28 its ban will expire July 1. Farmers
planted 10 percent more grain this year, First Deputy Prime
Minister Viktor Zubkov said. Ukraine President  Viktor Yanukovych 
said in an interview May 24 he would lift export quotas because
of forecasts for a 15 percent increase in the harvest.  Wheat Shipments  The decline in French wheat shipments is adding pressure on
freight rates as shipping companies contend with an expanding
capacity glut. Returns for owners of handysizes slumped 46
percent in the past 12 months, according to data from the
London-based Baltic Exchange, which publishes daily rates for
more than 50 maritime routes.  The rate of $8,600 predicted by Oslo-based Korsvold of
Pareto Securities is below the $10,405 being priced in third-
quarter forward freight agreements, traded by brokers and used
to bet on future transport costs, Baltic Exchange data show.  The global fleet of 2,608 handysizes expanded 6.6 percent
in a year and the outstanding order book at shipyards from  China 
to  South Korea  to  Japan  is equal to 31 percent of existing
capacity, according to data from Redhill, England-based IHS
Fairplay. Shipping companies were ordering vessels in 2007 and
2008 when rates rose as high as $49,397.  Handysize rates are volatile, dropping as much as 33
percent and rising as much as 31 percent last year, Baltic
Exchange data show. The vessels are defined by Clarkson Plc, the
world’s biggest shipbroker, as having a carrying capacity of
10,000 to 40,000 deadweight tons. They also haul commodities
including cement, timber, fertilizers, salt and sugar.  Global Trade  About 90 percent of global trade moves by sea, according to
the Round Table of International Shipping Associations.  Egypt will buy 9.5 million tons of wheat in the marketing
year ending in June 2012, down from 10.2 million tons this year,
the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates.  Morocco ’s
purchases will decline to 2.1 million tons from 3.9 million tons
and  Tunisia ’s to 1.5 million tons from 1.6 million tons, the
data show.  Algeria ’s needs will be unchanged at 5.3 million
tons.  “If the forecast ends up being anywhere near accurate,
it’s a negative for ship demand,” said Peter Norfolk, an
analyst at Freight Investor Services Ltd., a broker of shipping
derivatives in  London . “But in the global scheme of things it’s
not huge.”  Egypt has enough wheat to cover its needs for eight months,
Al Gomhuria reported May 22, citing Social Solidarity Minister
Gouda Abdel Khaleq. The supply includes four months of local
production in addition to 2.1 million tons of imported wheat,
the Cairo-based newspaper cited the minister as saying.  Food Prices  Global food prices tracked by the  United Nations  rose 36
percent in 12 months, pushing 44 million more people into
poverty since June 2010, according to the  World Bank . Higher
prices helped spark the riots that erupted across northern
 Africa  this year, toppling Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in January and Egyptian leader  Hosni Mubarak  the
following month.  The pace of France’s wheat sales to Algeria and Morocco in
the 2010-11 marketing year may not be repeated in the next 12
months. A lack of rain and unseasonably high temperatures will
cut France’s soft-wheat crop by 12 percent to a four-year low of
31.65 million tons, according to Agritel, a Paris-based adviser
to farmers. The nation’s soft-wheat exports outside the European
Union may drop 53 percent to 6 million tons, Agritel estimates.  EU Wheat  The EU’s wheat crop may slide to 131 million tons, from
135.8 million tons, because of growing conditions in France,
 Germany  and the U.K., the biggest growers in the 27-nation bloc,
according to the median estimate of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg last week.  In the U.S., winter wheat is in the worst condition since
1996, with 45 percent of fields rated poor or very poor as of
May 22, according to the USDA. Even that may not spur northern
African nations to accelerate their buying.  “There isn’t huge pressure on their stockpiles,” said
 Abah Ofon , an analyst with Standard Chartered Bank in  Singapore .
“I don’t think there will be panic buying.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .
Alistair Holloway in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 