-- 
Slovenian GDP Growth in First Quarter Slowed on Construction

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-05-31T08:33:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/slovenian-gdp-growth-in-first-quarter-slowed-on-construction.html
Slovenia’s annual economic growth
slowed in the first quarter as a drop in the  construction
industry  outweighed gains in exports and industrial output.  The economy expanded 2 percent from a year earlier,
compared with 2.1 percent in last quarter of 2010, the
statistics  office  in Ljubljana said today on its website.  “Industrial production and exports were strong but
construction is taking its toll,”  Goran Saravanja , chief
economist at Zagrebacka Banka d.d., the Croatian unit of
UniCredit SpA, said before the report. “Retail trade has been
pretty much flat as household spending remains weak and for 2011
I see growth reaching around 2 percent, partly as construction
begins to emerge from two years of double-digit declines.”  Slovenia’s export-dependent economy is seeing improved
demand for its goods in  Europe  even though countries are
introducing savings measures to narrow public spending. The
construction industry, which powered growth before the financial
crisis, is hampering the recovery and denting earnings at
Slovenian banks like Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and Nova
Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d.  The government expects the economy to expand 2.2 percent
this year with some officials, including the Finance Minister
 Franc Krizanic , estimating growth to be “well above” 2
percent.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
sees GDP growth at 1.8 percent this year, compared with a 1.2
percent growth rate in 2010. The Paris-based OECD, which
Slovenia joined last year, said in its global economic outlook
on May 25 that the recovery will probably accelerate to 2.6
percent next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  