-- 
South African Banks Struggle to Clean Bad Loans From Books, Regulator Says

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-05-31T09:16:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/south-african-banks-impaired-advances-eased-to-level-of-5-8-in-december.html
South African lenders are struggling
to remove bad debts from their books while costs are increasing,
said Errol Kruger, the chief bank regulator.  Non-performing loans, at 134 billion rand ($19.5 billion)
at the end of December, “remain fairly sticky,” Kruger told
reporters in Johannesburg today. Banks’ costs climbed to 56.4
percent of revenue at the end of last year from 51.1 percent in
December 2009.  Bad debts are undermining loan growth at  Standard Bank 
Group Ltd., Africa’s biggest lender, Barclays Plc’s  Absa Group
Ltd. (ASA)  and others, the  Reserve Bank  said in a report released in
Johannesburg today. “Difficult economic conditions” last year
meant that non-performing loans were little changed at 5.8
percent of total loans in December, from 5.9 percent a year
earlier, the central bank said.  “It’s not reducing as much as one would have liked in a
low interest-rate environment,” Kruger said. In 2007-08,
“banks were running ahead of themselves as if the party
wouldn’t come to an end. There are still a lot of those loans in
the system.”  The Reserve Bank cut its benchmark interest rate three
times to a 30-year low of 5.5 percent last year to help support
the recovery in  Africa ’s biggest economy.  Banks are facing rising costs and need to manage this
effectively, though no large-scale job cuts are expected, Kruger
said. A cost-to-income ratio of 60 percent would be “when one
starts getting concerned,” Kruger said.  Job Cuts  Standard Bank, which is 20 percent owned by Industrial and
Commercial Bank of China Ltd., said on Oct. 29 it will cut 4
percent of its South African workforce and 13 percent of its
London employees to curb costs as revenue declines.  South
Africa ’s unemployment rate of 25 percent is the highest of 61
countries tracked by Bloomberg.  “In our interaction with banks, this is not an issue high
on the agenda,” Kruger said. “It’s an issue of natural
attrition and the cost base gets brought under control. I’m not
aware of imminent retrenchments on the horizon.”  The banking regulator is also conducting a peer review of
executive pay in the industry to determine whether it results in
excessive risk-taking, Kruger said. The findings will be
published next year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  