-- 
South Africa’s Economy Expanded Faster Than Expected 4.8% in First Quarter

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a ,   G o r d o n   B e l l   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-05-31T10:59:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/south-africa-s-economy-expanded-faster-than-expected-4-8-in-first-quarter.html
South African economic growth
unexpectedly accelerated to the fastest pace in a year in the
first quarter as the lowest  interest rates  in three decades
spurred manufacturers to restock to meet rising demand.  Gross domestic product rose an annualized 4.8 percent from
a revised 4.5 percent in the final quarter of 2010, Statistics
South  Africa  said in a report released in the capital,  Pretoria ,
today. The median estimate of 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for growth to slow to 4.2 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  cut its benchmark interest rate three
times last year to a 30-year low of 5.5 percent to help spur
 consumer spending , which accounts for two-thirds of demand in
the economy. Faster growth in Africa’s biggest economy may
prompt the government to increase its 3.4 percent forecast for
2011, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  told lawmakers in  Cape
Town  today.  “This is an environment that’s still accommodative,” said
Jean-Francois Mercier, an economist at Citigroup Inc. in
Johannesburg. “There’s monetary stimulus that’s feeding through
the economy. Manufacturers are restocking and business
investment is picking up.”  The rand strengthened to 6.8827 against the dollar as of
12:21 p.m. in Johannesburg from 6.8915 before the data was
released, extending its gain since Feb. 1 to 4.3 percent. The
yield on the R157 government bond, due 2015, rose 6 basis
points, or 0.06 percentage points, to 7.54 percent.  Manufacturing Surge  Manufacturing surged an annualized 14.5 percent in the
first quarter, the fastest pace since the second quarter of
2008, the statistics office said.  “If it carries on like that then we’ll be way above the
3.4 percent that we talked about earlier on,” Gordhan said.
“What is extremely encouraging is the strong growth in
manufacturing, part of which is impacted upon by the strong
rand, as everybody calls it.”  The government has said it needs annual growth of 7 percent
in order to meet a pledge to create 5 million new jobs by 2020.
The central bank on May 12 cut its economic growth forecast for
this year to 3.6 percent from 3.7 percent.  Mining rose an annualized 1.8 percent, while construction
growth was stagnant in the quarter, the statistics office said.
The retail trade, hotels and restaurants industry grew 4.4
percent, while the finance and real-estate sector expanded 4.8
percent.  European Growth  Economic expansion is being undermined by slower growth in
 Europe , which buys about a third of South African manufactured
exports, and job losses. The economy shed 14,000 jobs in the
first quarter, pushing up the  unemployment rate  to 25 percent,
the highest of 61 countries tracked by Bloomberg.  “Clearly our manufacturing community is also demonstrating
its resilience and its capacity to survive some of the global
conditions and do extremely well,” Gordhan said. “Apart from
agriculture, most of the sectors have shown very positive growth
and that’s a good sign for the rest of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  