-- 
South Korean Inflation Breaches Bank of Korea’s Target for a Fifth Month

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-06-01T02:22:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/south-korean-inflation-breaches-bank-of-korea-s-target-for-a-fifth-month.html
South Korea ’s inflation exceeded the
central bank’s target for a fifth straight month in May, adding
to the case for the bank to raise interest rates next week even
as export and output growth cools.  Consumer prices rose 4.1 percent from a year earlier after
a 4.2 percent gain in April, Statistics  Korea  said today in
Gwacheon, south of Seoul. That kept inflation above the  Bank of
Korea ’s 4 percent target. Exports advanced 23.5 percent, missing
projections for a 27.7 percent gain, a separate report showed.  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  has declared “war”
on inflation, which has weighed on his public support ratings.
The Bank of Korea will likely raise interest rates for a third
time this year to control prices on June 10, Credit Agricole CIB
said, even as weaker-than-expected industrial production and
exports data underscore the risk that the economy may slow.  “Inflation remains above the central bank target and
exports are still firm,” said Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income
analyst at Taurus Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul . “Many
market participants played down the chances of a rate increase
next week on worries over growth, but I believe that policy
makers don’t want to miss the chance as the room for more
changes can be limited over time.”  The won gained 0.26 percent to 1,076.40 per dollar as of
10:36 a.m. in Seoul, according to the data compiled by
Bloomberg, while the Kospi stock index rose 0.24 percent.
The currency rose more than 4 percent so far this year, eroding
the competitiveness of Korean exporters.  Interest Rate Move  “We expect the Bank of Korea to hike rates in June,
although there is some risk of a more extended pause” after the
output data, Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based economist at
Credit Agricole CIB, said before the release. “Price pressures
continue due to high commodity prices and higher inflation
expectations.”  Two central bank board members, Kim Dae Sik and Choi Do
Soung, called for a quarter-percentage interest rate increase in
April when the other four members voted to keep it unchanged at
3 percent, according to a record of the April 12 meeting
released yesterday.  Government-run think tank  Korea Development Institute  urged
the central bank to raise interest rates more aggressively to
tackle inflation it expects to accelerate to 4.1 percent this
year, it said in a statement on May 22.  Exports Slow  The price increase in May was in line with the median
estimate of a 4.2 percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey of 11
economists.  Exports fell to $48 billion from a record $49.15 billion in
April, today’s report from the Ministry of  Knowledge Economy 
showed. Imports climbed 29.9 percent and the  trade surplus  was
$2.75 billion.  Moderating inflation compared with the 4.7 percent price
increase in March may prompt the central bank to hold off from
boosting borrowing costs, according to Yoon Yeo Sam, a fixed-
income analyst at Daewoo Securities Co.  “The latest data suggests the economy is losing some pace
while price pressures are not surging anymore,” said Yoon, based
in Seoul. “Rising core prices should be a concern but the Bank
of Korea may feel they buy more time for another rate increase.”  Industrial production increased 6.9 percent from a year
earlier in April, the slowest pace in seven months, the
country’s statistics agency said yesterday.  Food Prices  Bahk Jae Wan, who President Lee has nominated as finance
minister, said on May 25 that inflation may exceed the nation’s
3 percent target this year. The central bank aims for inflation
of 2 percent to 4 percent through 2012 and is forecasting that
the level will be 3.9 percent this year.  CJ CheilJedang Corp. (097950)  and other food processors increased
milk and canned food prices around 10 percent last month. The
government may allow Korea Electric Power Corp. to raise power
charges due to higher energy costs, local media reported.  Reflecting voters’ concern about the higher cost of living,
President Lee’s public support fell to 27.1 percent last month
compared with 76 percent when he came to power in February 2008,
according to a May 23-27 poll by Seoul-based Realmeter.  Core prices, advanced 3.5 percent in May from a year
earlier, the fastest gain since June 2009, today’s report showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  