-- 
Spaniards’ Anger at Bankers Spills Over as Protests Spread to City Centers

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-05-31T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/spanish-ire-against-bankers-spills-over-in-city-center-protests.html
After losing 8,000 euros ($11,500) on
an interest-rate swap sold with her mortgage, Maria Jesus del
Rio joined demonstrators in her home town of Soria as protests
against politicians and bankers spilled onto Spanish streets.  “There’s a growing feeling that the banks have played a
big part in the problems now facing Spain,” said del Rio, 37,
who gathered with a throng of people in the town’s main square
last week as  protests  that began May 15 swelled across the
country. “There’s real anger with banks that got out of
control.”  A five-fold surge in bank  lending  in the decade up to 2007
has left its scars on customers as Spain’s property-fueled boom
turned to bust, pushing unemployment above 21 percent and
driving companies and consumers into default.  At least 28,000 people gathered in Madrid’s Puerta del Sol
central square in the run-up to Spanish regional elections on
May 22, according to organizers including the 15-M Movement,
which says it’s  protesting  against “the way bankers and
politicians have mismanaged the socio-economical crisis.” An
assembly of demonstrators agreed on May 29 to continue the
protest camp in Puerta del Sol this week after the movement also
formed committees to take their message into city neighborhoods,
Dante Scherma, a 15-M spokesman, said by phone.  Many Spaniards, asked by the government to sacrifice living
standards and years in retirement to help fix public finances,
have been incensed by Spain bailing out savings banks that were
crippled by bad loans linked to real estate, said  Luis Garicano ,
a professor at the London School of Economics.  Bailout Costs  “The anger of the youth is real because there’s this
feeling that the system is rigged so that bankers make mistakes
and don’t suffer the consequences -- while they do,” he said in
a phone interview. “Anti-banker sentiment is serious because it
risks clouding the judgment of politicians when it comes to
taking serious decisions.”  The cost of succoring Spanish savings banks with loans from
a government rescue fund has risen to about 11 billion euros.
The  Bank of Spain  has identified a further capital shortfall of
about 14 billion euros, some of which will be covered by the
rescue fund, known as FROB.  So far, that amount pales in comparison with the money
spent in countries such as the U.K., where Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc alone needed a 45 billion-pound government
bailout. At about 1 percent of gross domestic product, the cost
of Spain’s rescue in the form of loans from a government fund
compares with as much as 100 billion euros to be spent by
Ireland on cleaning up its banks, a bill that’s about two-thirds
the size of the country’s economy.  ‘Banco Sintander’  To be fair, Spaniards need to consider their own role in
the country’s economic story of the past decade before singling
out people such as bankers or politicians for blame, said  Aleix
Salo , a cartoonist who has published a short film and comic book
called “Espanistan” that satirizes modern Spain.  His comic book tells the story of Fredo, a 20-something
without work and his quest to cancel his mortgage that takes him
to regions of the fictional country including the sinister
“Financial District” where business lobbies dictate the
country’s future.  There, a character named “Amalio Botin,” who runs a
lender called “Banco Sintander,” transforms into a troll when
Fredo and friends ask him to annul the loan. In real life,
 Emilio Botin  is chairman of Banco Santander SA, Spain’s biggest
bank. Botin faced protests from about 60 placard-wielding
students on a May 30 visit to Madrid’s Carlos III University, El
Pais reported.  ‘Played Their Part’  A spokesman for Santander declined to comment in a phone
interview. Santander, which hasn’t tapped any rescue funds,
employs about 34,000 people in Spain and earned 8.18 billion
euros last year.  “All sectors of Spanish society have played their part in
what has happened in this country,” said Salo, adding that he
was still glad people were demonstrating because that meant they
were participating in politics. “I’m quite sure that just about
everyone who’s out there on the streets protesting still has a
bank account.”  The 15-M movement and other organizers of street protests
are calling for action against banks among demands that include
cuts in military spending and closure of nuclear power plants.  Proposals approved May 20 at a general assembly called in
Puerta del Sol included demands for “multiple measures” to
stem banking abuses and immediate nationalization of lenders
rescued by the state. From 17 percent in 2007, unemployment
among  Spaniards aged under 25  stands above 44 percent, a rate
that compares with 7.9 percent for Germany, according to
European Central Bank data.  Interest-Rate Swap  The protesters also asked for changes to Spain’s  mortgage 
laws so that people who take out home loans can cancel the debt
by handing over their house to the bank in the event of non-
payment. At present, lenders can seize not just the house but
all the assets of its owner that it needs to cover an unpaid
mortgage debt.  Del Rio said she felt compelled to join the protest in
Soria after her experience in 2008, when she bought an interest-
rate swap from Caja Rural de Soria at the same time as she took
out a mortgage for a new apartment.  She said the bank, which told her the product was to
protect her against rising interest rates, saddled her with
rising costs when  12-month Euribor , the benchmark rate for most
Spanish mortgages, plunged to 1.2 percent by March 2010 from as
high as 5.5 percent in October 2008.  Court Rulings  Judges across Spain have been ruling against banks in cases
brought by individuals and companies who claimed they were sold
swaps without being informed of the risks. So far, 247 cases
have been resolved in favor of clients against 55 for banks,
according to the  Association of Users Affected by Swaps and
Financial Derivatives.   “I think there’s been an explosion of rage against the
banks,” said del Rio, an electrical engineer. “In my case it
comes from personal experience of being sold what turned out to
be a complex derivative.”  Six calls seeking comment from Caja Rural in Soria,
including one to the chairman’s office, were unanswered.  While many people blame banks for the “easy credit”
policies that helped stir the credit boom, the fact that they
are now lending less and at higher cost is also fueling anger,
according to Garicano.  Alfredo Saenz , chief executive officer of
Banco Santander, said in April that public and private debt
would have to shrink by 100 billion euros a year through 2012.  In Puerta del Sol in Madrid, Jose Luis Garcia, an
unemployed electrician who has mortgage payments of 600 euros
out of a family income of 1,000 euros a month, admired a
scarecrow-type  sculpture  called “Scare-Banker” built from
plastic bottles with a black crow-like bird on its shoulder and
fish-like skeleton made from coat hangers.  “I think it’s great,” he said. “It perfectly captures
what I think about bankers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  