-- 
Steve Jobs to Make Public Appearance June 6 to Unveil Apple ICloud Product

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-05-31T20:34:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/steve-jobs-plans-to-appear-at-apple-worldwide-developers-conference-june-6.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Jobs  will address an annual conference on June 6 to unveil
a service that lets users store content online and tout a new
version of the software that runs the iPad and iPhone.  Jobs, in the midst of his third medical leave since 2004 as
he battles a rare form of cancer, will deliver a keynote address
at Apple’s Worldwide Developers Conference, the Cupertino,
California-based company said in a statement. It will be Jobs’s
second appearance this year, after the iPad debut in March.  Apple follows rivals  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  in
creating services to make it easier for customers to store and
access music and other content via the Internet. So-called cloud
computing lets people keep their songs and other content on
remote servers rather than a hard drive. Cloud options will help
the iPhone compete with phones powered by Google’s Android
software, said  Mike Abramsky , an analyst with RBC Capital.  “In the face of rising market share from Android,
sustaining Apple’s advantage in user experience is going to be
very important in terms of sustaining its smartphone growth,”
said Abramsky, who is based in Toronto.  Apple said it will demonstrate features of the new iOS
software that powers the handheld devices, as well as Mac OS
Lion, the eighth major update for the operating system for Mac
laptops and desktops.  ‘Tightly Coupled’  “The two platforms are going to become much more tightly
coupled to one another,” said  Carl Howe , an analyst at the
 Yankee Group  in  Boston . Apple may also include in iOS a new 
notification system for getting alerts, an upgrade that
developers have been asking for, Howe said.  Jobs has used the conference in the past to introduce new
gadgets such as the iPhone. This year, the company won’t be
showcasing a new iPhone at the gathering, people familiar with
the matter said last month. Instead, the new phone will likely
be revealed in the fall, Abramsky said.  The new cloud offering -- to be called iCloud -- would be
an overhaul of Apple’s MobileMe product, which was introduced in
2008 so users could pay $99 per year to store e-mail, calendar,
photos and other content on Apple’s servers. The service from
early on faced shortcomings, including an inability to receive
or send e-mails.  The company has built a $1 billion  data center  in  North
Carolina  that could be used to store content for a new cloud
service, Howe said.  iTunes Changes  The new service may involve changes for iTunes. Apple, the
world’s most valuable technology company, has reached agreements
with three major record labels to let users of its new music
service access their song collections from handheld devices via
the Internet, people with knowledge of the deals said this
month.  Apple would follow Google and Amazon.com in letting users
stream music from the cloud instead of downloading it to a hard
drive.  Jennifer Bowcock, an Apple spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call or e-mail seeking comment.  Apple’s shares rose $10.42, or 3.1 percent, to $347.83 at
4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has
climbed 7.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net 
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  