-- 
Sudan Says Southern Troops in Border States Will Be ‘Legitimate Targets’

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-05-31T09:57:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/sudan-says-southern-troops-in-border-states-will-be-legitimate-targets-.html
Sudan ’s army said it may attack any
remaining  Southern Sudan  troops in the northern border states of
Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile, heightening tension before the
south’s independence in July.  “In these two states, any remaining southern forces north
of the border after June 1 will become legitimate targets,”
Sudanese army spokesman Al-Sawarmi Khaled said today by phone
from Khartoum, Sudan’s capital. “Our position is clear and
candid.”  Under a 2005 peace agreement that ended Sudan’s two-decade
civil war, the northern and southern armies were due to jointly
patrol the two states and the disputed border region of Abyei.
Sudan’s army occupied Abyei on May 21, accusing Southern
Sudanese forces of attacking its soldiers. The seizure sparked
an exodus of more than 30,000 people, according to the  United
Nations .  Southern Sudan’s vice president, Riek Machar, said
yesterday it will not be possible for the fighters in Southern
Sudan’s army in those two states to leave. Most of the troops
are from those states, he told reporters in Khartoum, and the
demand for their withdrawal “will create more insecurity.”  Southern Kordofan , northern Sudan’s only oil-producing
state, Blue Nile and Abyei were key battlegrounds during the
civil war between the north and the oil-rich south. All three
areas have ethnic groups loyal to the south and others that want
to be part of the north.  Oil Wealth  Southern Kordofan borders the oil-rich states of Unity and
Upper Nile in Southern Sudan, which will assume control of about
75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels of
oil at independence.  Delegations from northern and Southern Sudan meeting in the
Ethiopian capital,  Addis Ababa , signed an agreement yesterday to
establish a “common border zone” between the two regions, the
 African Union  said today in an e-mailed statement. The area will
be “demilitarized and jointly monitored and patrolled,” it
said.  Machar said that his northern counterpart, Ali Osman Taha,
and Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir rejected a request by
Southern Sudan’s government for UN peacekeepers to stay in
Southern Kordofan, Blue Nile and  Abyei  after the south’s
independence “in case things get out of hand.”  UN Mission  Sudanese Foreign Minister Ali Karti informed UN Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon that the UN’s 10,000-member peacekeeping
mission will end when the south becomes independent on July 9,
state-run SUNA news agency reported May 28. Ban has proposed
having a 7,000-member peacekeeping force in Southern Sudan after
independence.  Tensions in the region of Abyei, and Southern Kordofan and
Blue Nile states “are all factors that could trigger war,”
Fouad Hikmat, the special adviser on Sudan for the Brussels-
based  International Crisis Group , said yesterday by phone from
Nairobi,  Kenya ’s capital.  Southern Kordofan currently pumps about 115,000 barrels of
oil per day, according to Sudan’s minister of state for oil, Ali
Ahmed Osman.  Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Co.  and Petro Energy E&P
Co. operate blocks in Southern Kordofan. The concessions are
mostly owned by China National Petroleum Corp. Other stakes are
held by  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd, or Petronas,  India ’s
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. and Sudan’s state-owned oil company,
 Sudapet .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 