-- 
Swiss Franc Weakens as Slowing Economic Growth Damps Bets on Rate Increase

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-05-31T15:33:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/swiss-franc-weakens-as-slowing-economic-growth-damps-bets-on-rate-increase.html
The  Swiss franc  weakened against all
but three of its 16 major counterparts as data showed economic
growth slowed in the first quarter, damping speculation the
 Swiss National Bank  will raise borrowing costs.  The franc also fell versus the euro as mounting optimism
that extra aid will be granted to  Greece  sapped demand for the
Swiss currency as a haven. Gross domestic product rose 0.3
percent from the fourth quarter, when it increased a revised 0.8
percent, the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs in Bern said
today. That compares with the 0.7 percent median estimate of 18
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The economy expanded 2.4
percent compared with a year ago.  “The franc’s weaker as the GDP numbers look as if the SNB
is going to be on hold for quite a while,” said Peter Rosenstreich, chief currency analyst at Swissquote Bank SA in
Geneva. “The event risk of the SNB coming in with tightening
rhetoric is now off the table.”  The franc weakened 0.7 percent to 1.2259 per euro as of
4:22 p.m. in  London . It reached 1.2102 on May 27, the strongest
on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Swiss
currency was little changed at 85.25 centimes per dollar. It
reached 84.65 centimes on May 27, the strongest level since
1971, according to Bloomberg data.  The euro rose on speculation European officials will
approve additional assistance for Greece as part of efforts to
counter the region’s sovereign-debt crisis. Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said European leaders will decide
on a new aid package by the end of next month and have ruled out
a “total restructuring” of Greece’s debt.  Greek Resolution  “The idea that the situation in Greece is now starting to
resolve itself in the short term has given the euro a boost,”
Rosenstreich said. “We could see the franc weaken to 1.2500 or
1.2700” versus the 17-nation shared currency.  A separate report showed Swiss consumer demand fell in
April. The consumption indicator dropped to 1.58 from a revised
1.68 in March, UBS said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Consumer sentiment may have been adversely affected by
negative reporting on the European debt problem and the disaster
in  Japan ,” UBS said in the statement. Fundamentally, the
outlook for consumers is still positive, it said.  The Swiss central bank sold 290 million francs of 90-day
Treasury bills at an average yield of 0.08 percent today. That’s
little changed from the previous auction of similar-maturity
securities on May 17, which were alloted at 0.079 percent.  The franc has strengthened 3.2 percent against a basket of
nine developed-market peers this month, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, the second-best
performance tracked by the measure after the  New Zealand dollar ,
which has appreciated 3.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  