-- 
Syria’s Mayaleh Says Unrest’s Impact on Economy ’Not Very Large’

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-05-31T14:50:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/syria-s-mayaleh-says-unrest-s-impact-on-economy-not-very-large-.html
Syria ’s economy hasn’t been badly
hurt by the uprising against the government that began in mid-
March, said Adib Mayaleh, the governor of the  central bank .  “There was economic interference, yes, however the
situation is returning to normal” and the impact so far is
“not very large,” Mayaleh said in a telephone interview from
Damascus today.  Protests against President Bashar al-Assad’s rule have
swept the country, inspired by the uprisings that ousted
longtime rulers in Egypt and  Tunisia . Syrian security forces
have killed more than 1,100 people and detained more than
10,000, human rights groups say. The government blames the
protests on Islamic militants and foreign provocateurs.  Deposits at banks declined for 10 days, then recovered
after the central bank took measures to boost confidence,
Mayaleh said. This month the bank raised the rate lenders pay on
deposits by 2 percentage points and lowered the reserve
requirement to 5 percent from 10 percent.  Deposits at private banks declined about 7 percent in the
first quarter, Abdul Qader Dweik, head of the Syrian
International Islamic Bank, the country’s largest Islamic
lender, said in a telephone interview today.  Investment ‘Drying Up’  Growth in Syria’s $60 billion economy will be “very
small” this year as tourism will be hit by the unrest and
investment “looks like its drying up,” said Chris Phillips, an
analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit in  London .  The auction of the country’s third mobile phone license has
been effectively suspended by the government after four of the
five companies that expressed interest in bidding, including
France Telecom SA, pulled out.  “It’s normal for  consumer confidence  to decline and for
business sentiment to be hesitant under the current
circumstances,” said  Nassib Ghobril , head of research at
Lebanon’s  Byblos Bank SAL. (BYB)  “It is too early to quantify the
impact of the developments on the economy.”  Syria is seeking to attract foreign companies and reduce
dependence on oil reserves that will be depleted within 18
years, according to calculations by BP Plc. The country aims to
attract as much as $55 billion in foreign direct investment in
the next five years, former Deputy Prime Minister for Economic
Affairs Abdallah Dardari said in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 