-- 
U.K. Lawmaker Taylor Sentenced to 12 Months Over Expenses

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-31T14:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/u-k-lawmaker-taylor-sentenced-to-12-months-in-expenses-case.html
U.K. lawmaker  John Taylor  was
sentenced to 12 months in prison for fraudulently claiming
thousands of pounds of expenses from Britain’s unelected upper
chamber, the House of Lords.  The term for false accounting violations was the least
amount of jail time the court could impose on Taylor, 58, who
was convicted in January, Judge John Saunders said in a
statement today. Saunders had delayed sentencing to prevent it
from affecting the trial of another lawmaker, Paul White, also
known as Lord Hanningfield, who was convicted last week.  “The evidence that the jury and I heard in both the trial
of Lord Taylor and Lord Hanningfield demonstrated that the
manner in which the expenses scheme in the House of Lords
operated lacked clarity,” Saunders said in the statement.  Taylor became the first lawmaker to be convicted by a jury
over expenses fraud since the scandal swept through parliament
in 2009. Two lawmakers from the elected House of Commons,  David Chaytor  and  Eric Illsley , have pleaded guilty to fraud charges.
Chaytor was sentenced to 18 months in jail, while Illsley got 12
months.  “Lord Taylor is distraught with the sentence but fully
accepts the court’s decision,” the lawmaker’s law firm, IBB
Solicitors, said in a statement today.  ‘Unclear’ Expenses System  Taylor had denied wrongdoing. During the trial his lawyer
Mohammed Khamisa said the House of Lords’ expenses system was
“unclear” and “ill-defined.”  At trial, prosecutors told a jury that between June 2006
and October 2007, Taylor lied on six claims for travel and
accommodation. Taylor told Parliament’s expenses office that he
lived in Oxford and commuted to London during the week, and so
needed to pay for accommodation in the city, Law said. In
reality he was living in  London , prosecutors said.  London police welcomed the sentence, saying the prison term
“follows a thorough and detailed investigation of Lord Taylor
of Warwick’s parliamentary claims,” according to a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 