-- 
U.K.’s Benchmark FTSE 100 Index Increases; Shell, BP Shares Lead Advance

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-05-31T16:12:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/u-k-stocks-rise-led-by-bp-shell-barratt-gains-on-home-prices.html
U.K. stocks climbed for a fifth day,
the longest winning streak in two months, amid optimism European
Union leaders will step up aid to  Greece  and that an expanding
global economy will drive earnings.  BP Plc (BP/)  and Royal Dutch Shell Group Plc led gains as oil
climbed more than 1.5 percent in New York.  Hammerson Plc (HMSO)  and
 Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/)  rose as a report showed luxury-home prices in
central London grew at the fastest pace in a year.  The FTSE 100 Index rose 0.9 percent to 5,989.99 at the 4:30
p.m. close in London, paring May’s decline to 1.3 percent. About
six stocks rose for each that dropped. The FTSE All-Share Index
gained 0.9 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index increased
0.5 percent.  “We are seeing a broad risk rally with investors pricing
in the possibility Greece may avoid a restructuring of its
debt,” said  Angus Campbell , head of sales at Capital Spreads in
London. “Just how long this bounce can sustain itself is of
course the major question. There are still big doubts in the
minds of many investors and the worry is if you keep throwing
money at the problem, it is not going to solve it.”  Speculation that Greece will restructure its debt and
concern the outlook for other economies in  Europe  is worsening
has dragged the FTSE 100 down by 1.7 percent since Feb. 8.
Germany is considering dropping its demand for an early
rescheduling of Greek bonds, the Wall Street Journal reported,
citing people familiar with the matter it didn’t identify.  Economic Data  A measure of Chinese leading indicators produced by the
China Economic Monitoring & Analysis Center and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. released today showed the economic gauge climbed in
April to the highest since October.  Stocks pared their gains today as a Conference Board report
showed confidence among U.S. consumers unexpectedly declined in
May to a six-month low, while data from the Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. signaled business activity in the
country cooled more than forecast in May.  BP, the  oil company  facing claims for last year’s Gulf of
Mexico spill, rose 1.9 percent to 468.35 pence. Shell, Europe’s
biggest oil company, gained 2.7 percent to 2,192 pence.  Crude advanced for a second day in  New York , rising as much
as 2.4 percent and trimming the biggest monthly drop in a year,
after a pump-station leak forced the shutdown of the Keystone
pipeline that carries oil to the largest U.S. storage hub.  House Prices  Hammerson, the U.K.’s third-largest real estate investment
trust, climbed 1.4 percent to 479.5 pence. Taylor Wimpey, the
country’s second-largest homebuilder, increased 1.2 percent to
36.84 pence.  Values of houses and apartments in central London costing
an average of 3.7 million pounds ($6 million) increased 1.4
percent in May from the previous month, realtor Knight Frank LLP
said, as the pound’s weakness encouraged overseas buyers.  U.K. house prices will start to rise at the end of this
year and increase through 2015, the Centre for Economics &
Business Research also said today.  Serco Group Plc (SRP)  gained 3.5 percent to 577 pence. The
provider of outsourcing work said it bought Intelenet, a company
which offers back-office services, for as much as 385 million
pounds to expand in countries including  India .  Wolseley Plc (WOS)  advanced 3.4 percent to 2,058 pence. The
supplier of heating and plumbing products is selling three of
its U.K. businesses for an expected 300 million pounds, the
Sunday Times reported May 29, without saying where it got the
information.  Experian Plc (EXPN) , the world’s largest credit-checking company,
jumped 3.1 percent to 800 pence, the biggest advance since
December. The stock was raised to “outperform” from
“neutral” at Credit Suisse Group AG.  Bank of Ireland Plc tumbled 28 percent to 13.2 euro cents.
The lender said in a statement it will seek to impose losses of
as much as 90 percent on 2.6 billion euros ($3.7 billion) of
subordinated debt as it offers bondholders an exchange for cash
or equity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  