-- 
U.S. Credit-Swaps Index Declines as Prospects for Greece Improve

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-05-31T22:19:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/u-s-credit-swaps-index-declines-as-prospects-for-greece-improve.html
The cost of protecting U.S. corporate
bonds from default fell to a one-week low amid speculation that
nations will pledge more aid to  Greece .  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 1.3 basis points to a
mid-price of 89.3 basis points as of 5:02 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. That’s the
lowest since 88.6 basis points on May 19.  European Union leaders will decide on a new aid package for
Greece by the end of next month and a “total restructuring” of
the nation’s debt has been ruled out,  Jean-Claude Juncker , who
leads the group of euro-area finance ministers, said yesterday
in Paris.  “That’s generally supportive for risky assets,” said
 Rizwan Hussain , a credit strategist at Morgan Stanley in New
York. Month-end is also “a rebalancing” for investors, he
said. “We’re at the wider end of the range so that’s seen some
incremental buying.”  The credit swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, climbed as
high as 96.8 basis points on March 22 as evidence mounted that
the U.S. economic recovery was slowing and EU officials
struggled to contain the region’s debt crisis.  The benchmark rallied today even as the Conference Board’s
index of  consumer confidence  unexpectedly decreased in May to
the lowest level in six months and the S&P/Case-Shiller index of
property values in 20 cities dropped in March to the lowest
level since 2003.  “It somewhat reinforces the case for corporate credit,”
Hussain said. “If we aren’t in as robust an economic
environment in the back half of this year, it brings back the
allure of fixed-income products generally.”  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  