-- 
Debt-Ceiling Measure Defeated in U.S. House Vote Democrats Call ‘Charade’

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-01T15:42:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/u-s-house-defeats-debt-ceiling-measure-in-vote-democrats-call-a-charade-.html
A bill that would raise the U.S. debt
limit by $2.4 trillion failed to win House passage yesterday in
a vote Democrats said was rigged to ensure its defeat.  Last week, Republicans who control the  House of
Representatives  announced the vote as a way to demonstrate that
lawmakers don’t support extending the $14.3 trillion debt limit
unless agreement is reached with President Barack Obama’s
administration on significant spending cuts.  The vote on the debt-limit increase was 97 in favor, all
Democrats, and 318 opposed -- 236 Republicans and 82 Democrats.
Support for the increase not only failed to win a majority; it
fell 180 votes short of the 277 votes, or two-thirds of those
voting, that were needed for passage under the streamlined
procedures Republicans used to bring the measure to the floor.  House Republicans met today with Obama at the White House
as they look for an agreement on a package of spending cuts in
negotiations led by Vice President  Joe Biden  in time to raise
the debt ceiling by an Aug. 2 deadline. Biden has said
negotiators are trying to find savings of $1 trillion over 10
years.  Yesterday’s vote won’t fan worries among bond traders that
the U.S. may default on its obligations because “the markets
are used to considerable amount of theater before any major
debt-ceiling debate,” said  Lou Crandall , chief economist for
the Wrightson ICAP LLC unit of London-based  ICAP Plc (IAP) , the
world’s largest broker of trades between banks.  Eye on Deadline  “People generally assume” that “these sorts of issues
won’t come to a head just before the projected deadline,” he
said in a telephone interview. “That’s still a couple of months
off,” so “no one is anticipating an action at this point.”  Still, the cost of insuring  U.S. government debt  against
losses for one year with credit default swaps is rising while
the price of protection over longer periods has fallen, as
investors bet the standoff over raising the debt ceiling may
drag into August.  Credit default swaps that expire in one year rose to 47.425
basis points as of yesterday from 23.74 basis points on May 16,
when the U.S. reached its borrowing limit. A 33 percent jump on
May 20 was the biggest one-day percentage increase since July
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  Investor Confidence  Reflecting long-term investor confidence in U.S. debt,
swaps protecting against default for 10 years has fallen to
55.48 basis points from 61.17 basis points over the same period,
according to CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Credit default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. Rising prices indicate declining investor confidence in a
borrower’s creditworthiness.  For all of  Washington ’s debate about the deficit, bond
market yields in the U.S. are lower now than they were when the
government was running a budget surplus a decade ago. The yield
on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell below 3 percent for
the first time in 2011, dropping nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 2.97 percent at 10:45 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  White House press secretary Jay Carney yesterday said the
administration believes that Congress ultimately will act to
raise the debt ceiling.  Must Be Raised  “Regardless of any other development the debt ceiling must
be and will be raised,” he said. He declined to characterize
yesterday’s House vote, other than to say it’s “an expression
of a point of view” regarding the need to address deficits.  “We share the concerns that drive those views,” he said.
“In the end, the debt ceiling has to be raised.”  In a statement after the vote, House Speaker  John Boehner ,
a Ohio Republican, said that a debt-limit increase “without
major spending cuts and meaningful reforms would hurt our
economy and destroy more jobs, adding to our debt crisis. Today
the House stood with the American people and said very clearly
that this course of action is unacceptable.”  Boehner and  House Republicans  met this morning at the White
House with Obama in what the House speaker called a “very
productive” session about spending cuts and the debt ceiling.  House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer of  Maryland  said it was
irresponsible for Republicans to conduct the vote “solely for
the purpose” of defeating the measure. “To put something on
the floor for the purpose of seeing it fail, without any
opportunity to debate” shows that “this is a political
charade,” he told reporters.  In a  May 24 statement  issued to introduce the measure,
House Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp said he would oppose
raising the debt ceiling without “significant spending cuts and
budgetary reforms.”  ‘Serious’ About Solutions  As proposed by Camp, a Michigan Republican, the legislation
would have raised the debt limit by $2.4 trillion, the amount
Obama’s proposed budget said would be needed to continue U.S.
borrowing through the 2012 fiscal year.  The measure “will allow the House to reject a clean
increase in the debt limit, proving to American people, the
financial markets and the administration that we are serious
about tackling our debt and deficit problems,” Camp said in his
statement.  “It is so important that we have a clear path forward” to
spending cuts “given what the ratings agencies are saying about
our debt,” Camp said yesterday in floor debate.  Standard & Poor’s  in April put the  U.S. debt  on a
“negative outlook” on concern that Congress and Obama wouldn’t
agree on a plan to curb medium- and long-term spending.  Cutting Spending  “It would be irresponsible to increase the debt ceiling
without reforms that start cutting spending,” Louisiana
Republican Steve Scalise said in yesterday’s debate.  “Enough of giving the president the uncontrolled use of
the American credit card,” he said.  House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat,
said Republicans were propagating a “false premise” that
raising the debt limit would encourage more borrowing.  She and other Democrats also pressed the case that much of
the government’s debt was accrued during Republican President
 George W. Bush ’s administration.  Hoyer said “we need to deal with this issue seriously,”
and not “as a simplistic suggestion that somehow President
Obama caused this.” As examples of expenses that began under
Bush, he cited $1.3 trillion spent on wars in Iraq and
 Afghanistan , an expanded Medicare “drug prescription bill we
haven’t paid for,” and “tax cuts your party voted for” that
“we didn’t pay for.”  Reassuring Lawmakers  With 87 freshmen Republican lawmakers, many elected with
support of the Tea Party movement, Boehner has sought to
reassure his members that he will insist in negotiations that
such spending cuts are imposed as a condition of raising the
debt ceiling.  Boehner has also sought to reassure bond investors that the
U.S. won’t default on its financial obligations. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has warned that a failure to raise
the debt ceiling by Aug. 2, the date he now projects borrowing
authority would be exhausted, may have catastrophic effects on
the  U.S. economy  by sharply raising borrowing costs.  Boehner has said that spending cuts should exceed the
amount by which Congress increases the borrowing authority.
Today he released a statement signed by more than 150
economists, who called on Congress to include in any debt-limit
legislation “spending cuts and reforms that are greater than
the accompanying increase in debt authority being granted to the
president.”  Failing to do so “would harm private-sector job growth and
represent a tremendous setback in the effort to deal with the
national debt,” said the economists, who include Nobel
economics laureate Robert Mundell of  Columbia University  and two
former directors of the  Congressional Budget Office  -- Douglas Holtz-Eakin, who served under Bush, and June O’Neill, who served
under President  Bill Clinton , a Democrat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  