-- 
U.S. Administration Won’t ‘Second-Guess’ German Nuclear-Plant Phase-Out

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-05-31T14:41:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/u-s-won-t-second-guess-german-nuclear-plant-phase-out-1-.html
The Obama administration won’t
criticize  Germany ’s plan to shut all nuclear plants following a
reactor crisis in Japan, U.S. Deputy Energy Secretary Daniel Poneman said.  “I don’t think it’s for one country to second-guess the
decisions that another country makes,” Poneman said today at a
nuclear energy conference in  Washington .  German Chancellor Angela Merkel yesterday endorsed a plan
to close her nation’s 17 nuclear reactors by 2022 in light of
the partial meltdown of  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima
Dai-Ichi plant in Japan. President  Barack Obama  “continues to
see nuclear energy as an important part of America’s clean,
diverse energy portfolio,” Poneman said.  U.S. regulators and lawmakers are taking a closer look at
the nation’s 104 nuclear reactors after a March 11 earthquake
and tsunami in  Japan .  The natural disaster destroyed  power lines  and flooded
emergency diesel generators at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant,
about 135 miles (217 kilometers) north of Tokyo. Without
electricity to run cooling systems, the stricken plant’s fuel
rods overheated.  The hot fuel triggered fires, explosions and radiation
leaks, leading to the world’s worst nuclear incident since the
1986 Chernobyl disaster.  In March, the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission started a
90-day safety review after the Fukushima disaster. The NRC’s
draft report on the review is due by mid-July, NRC Commissioner
William Ostendorff said May 25 at a Senate Environment and
Public Works Committee hearing.  Safety Checks  Safety checks on  Europe ’s nuclear power plants, ordered
after the Japan crisis, will start tomorrow, João Vale de Almeida, the European Union ambassador to the U.S., said at
today’s conference.  The EU’s nuclear “stress tests” will review how the
plants would cope with disasters such as airplane crashes and
terrorist attacks, Vale de Almeida said. The tests will continue
“until the end of the year,” he said.  The tests were ordered “not because we don’t trust where
we are but because we want to be double sure,” Vale de Almeida
said.  The German “love affair with nuclear energy” has waned
since the partial meltdown at the Three Mile Island nuclear
plant in  Pennsylvania  in 1979 and the Chernobyl disaster, German
ambassador to the U.S. Klaus Scharioth said at the conference.  The Fukushima disaster left German officials unable to
conclude that a major nuclear accident was “highly, highly,
highly unlikely,” Scharioth said.  Nuclear reactors “are very complicated technologies which
you cannot get under control 100 percent,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  