-- 
U.S. Consumer Sentiment Unexpectedly Falls to Six-Month Low on Job Outlook

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-05-31T21:12:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/u-s-consumer-sentiment-unexpectedly-falls-to-six-month-low-on-job-outlook.html
Consumer sentiment unexpectedly
decreased in May to the lowest level in six months as Americans
grew concerned over the outlook for jobs and the economy, while
a measure of  home prices  dropped to a nine-year low.  The Conference Board’s confidence index dropped to 60.8
from a revised 66 reading in April, figures from the New York-
based private research group showed today. Home prices decreased
5.1 percent in the first quarter from the same time in 2010,
according to data from S&P/Case-Shiller. A separate report today
showed manufacturing cooled.  Consumer finances have been squeezed by rising costs of
food and fuel and erosion in home equity, causing spending to
slow. A drop in gasoline prices from a three-year high may bring
households some relief, while a resumption of supplies disrupted
by the earthquake and tsunami in Japan will benefit companies
like  Deere & Co. (DE) , giving the economy a lift in the last six
months of 2011.  “The economy has slipped into a soft patch,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New
York . “In the second half, we’ll do better than we’ve been
doing. As economic activity picks up, the labor market will
improve as well.”  Stocks rose on speculation the European Union will pledge
more aid to  Greece . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased
1.1 percent to 1,345.2 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  Home prices were down 4.2 percent from the previous three
months, the biggest one-quarter drop since the first three
months of 2009, according to the report from S&P/Case-Shiller.
At 125.41, the group’s national index was the lowest since the
second quarter of 2002.  More Foreclosures  A backlog of foreclosures poised to reach the market means
prices may stay depressed, dissuading builders from taking on
new-home construction projects. Unemployment at 9 percent and
stricter lending conditions are signs that any recovery in
housing may take years.  “With the foreclosure pipeline still full to bursting,
it’s hard to see this downward pressure on prices abating,”
said  Paul Dales , a senior U.S. economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in Toronto. “I wouldn’t be surprised to see prices
continue to fall this year and maybe into next year.”  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 3.6 percent in March from the same time in 2010, the
biggest year-over-year decline since November 2009, the group
also said. At 138.16, the gauge was the weakest since March
2003.  Broad-based Drop  Nineteen of the 20 cities in the index showed a year-over-
year decline, led by a 10 percent slump in Minneapolis. The
exception was Washington, where values climbed 4.3 percent.
Prices in 12 markets dropped to fresh lows in March from their
2006, 2007 peaks: Atlanta;  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ;  Chicago ;
 Cleveland ;  Detroit ; Las Vegas; Miami; Minneapolis; New York;
Phoenix; Portland,  Oregon ; and Tampa,  Florida .  “This month’s report is marked by the confirmation of a
double-dip in home prices across much of the nation,”  David Blitzer , chairman of the Case-Shiller index committee at S&P,
said in a statement.  Also today, the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago
Inc. said its business barometer fell to 56.6 this month, the
lowest since November 2009, from 67.6 in April. Figures greater
than 50 signal expansion. Economists forecast the gauge would
fall to 62, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Japan Disaster  Manufacturers that led the recovery as exports rose and
business investment picked up are facing challenges from higher
raw materials costs and the effects of  Japan ’s earthquake and
tsunami. Deere, the world’s largest farm-equipment maker, raised
its 2011 earnings forecast less than analysts estimated as
disruptions from Japan and costlier inputs lowered profit.  “There is a consistent story across regions that
manufacturing was slowing during the month, although it’s
unclear for how long or what’s next,” said  Jim O’Sullivan ,
global chief economist at MF Global Inc. in New York, who
forecast the index would fall to 58. “Japan supply-chain issues
appear to be part of the story, in addition to the impact of the
jump in oil and gasoline prices earlier in the year.”  The  consumer confidence  report, in which results are
compiled based on responses up to May 18, runs counter to other
figures on sentiment. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
final index of consumer sentiment increased to 74.3 in May from
69.8. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index ended a monthlong
slide, rising to minus 48.4 in the week to May 22 from a nine-
month low the prior week.  Survey Results  Estimates for consumer confidence ranged from 60 to 71 in
the Bloomberg survey of 68 economists. The measure averaged 98
during the expansion that ended in December 2007.  The group’s measure of present conditions decreased to 39.3
from 40.2 a month earlier. The gauge of expectations for the
next six months slumped to 75.2, the lowest since October, from
83.2.  The share of respondents expecting more jobs over the next
six months dropped, as did the proportion projecting their
incomes will rise.  Consumer spending  cooled to a 2.2 percent annual pace in
the first quarter following a 4 percent gain in the previous
three months as food and fuel prices climbed. The economy grew
at a 1.8 percent pace last quarter after expanding at a 3.1
percent rate.  The economy created 244,000 jobs in April, the most since
May 2010, even as the jobless rate climbed to 9 percent. Data
from the Labor Department due on June 3 may show payrolls
climbed about 180,000 this month, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  