-- 
Madoff Trustee’s UniCredit Lawsuit to Be Reviewed by U.S. District Judge

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-06-01T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/u-s-district-judge-to-consider-picard-suit-against-unicredit.html
A federal district judge in  New York 
said he will review part of a $58.8 billion lawsuit brought
against  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and other defendants by the bankruptcy
trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s firm.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff said yesterday in  Manhattan 
that he will explain in a June 3 order what issues he will
consider. UniCredit, based in Milan, asked the judge on May 10
to decide whether the racketeering law invoked by trustee Irving Picard applies outside the U.S.  Picard’s fees are an issue in the UniCredit case, said
Rakoff, who yesterday asked the trustee’s lawyers why four of
them were in court. Picard personally has been paid $3.6 million
in fees since Madoff’s 2008 arrest, while his  law firm , Baker &
Hostetler LLP, has collected $145.6 million, plus $3.4 million
in expenses, according to a May 16 bankruptcy court filing.  Picard named UniCredit in a December bankruptcy-court suit
against Bank Medici AG, its founder, Sonja Kohn, and dozens of
other parties in Austria and  Italy . He sought $19.6 billion for
the conman’s investors, invoking the Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations Act to triple the amount. The claim is the
largest of more than 1,000 filed by Picard.  Tests ‘Upended’  A recent Supreme Court ruling “upended” historical tests
for applying U.S. law in other countries, the Italian bank said.
That casts doubt on whether Picard can use RICO to reach “an
alleged enterprise existing almost wholly outside of the United
States and expressly directing its alleged conduct to persons
living abroad,” UniCredit said in its court filing.  According to Picard’s suit, Kohn ran a scheme centered on
Bank Medici, parts of which overlapped with Madoff’s own
fraudulent enterprise, delivering $9.1 billion into the  Ponzi
scheme . The participants funneled $4 billion of the total
through feeder funds, he said.  Kohn and UniCredit are fighting the suit.  The case is Picard v. Kohn, 10-5411,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 