-- 
U.S. May Dallas Fed Business Outlook Report (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 
2011-05-31T14:33:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/u-s-may-dallas-fed-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Texas manufacturing activity from the Federal Reserve
Bank of  Dallas .  The Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas will release the Texas
Service Sector Outlook Survey (TSSOS) on June 1 at 9:30 a.m. CDT.
TSSOS is analogous to the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey
(TMOS) but covers the private service-producing sector of the
Texas economy. The TSSOS data go back to January 2007 and
include a breakout of respondents from the retail and wholesale
sectors, called the Texas Retail Outlook Survey (TROS). TSSOS
will come out monthly on the day following the TMOS release.  Texas factory activity increased in May, according to business
executives responding to the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey.
The production index, a key measure of state manufacturing
conditions, rose from 8 to 13 with 27 percent of respondents
noting output increased from April.  Other measures of current manufacturing conditions also
indicated growing activity, although the pace of new orders
slowed. The capacity utilization index edged up from its April
level, while the shipments index held steady at a reading of 8.
The new orders index moved down from 4 to 1, with the share of
manufacturers reporting increased order volumes falling from 30
percent to 22 percent. The growth rate of orders index turned
negative after six months of positive readings. For all
indicators, there was a significant rise in the percentage of
firms noting no change from the prior month.  Perceptions of general business conditions were mixed in May.
The general business activity index declined from 11 to -7, its
first negative reading in eight months. However, more than
three-fourths of respondents said activity was unchanged from
April. The company outlook index fell from 10 to 3, with 16
percent of respondents saying their outlooks were improved from
the prior month compared with 13 percent saying their outlooks
had worsened.  Labor market indicators reflected more hiring and longer
workweeks. The employment index came in at 12, with the share of
manufacturers adding workers reaching its highest level this
year. The hours worked index jumped up from -1 in April to 13 in
May.  Prices climbed again this month, although at a reduced rate, and
labor costs continued an upward trend. The raw materials price
index retreated from 57 to 43, suggesting input prices rose but
at a slower pace than in April. The finished goods price index
fell from 24 to 9, its lowest level this year. About 60 percent
of respondents anticipate further increases in raw materials
prices over the next six months, while 32 percent expect higher
finished goods prices. The wages and benefits index rose from 16
to 19, although the great majority of respondents noted no
change in labor costs.  Expectations regarding future business conditions were less
optimistic in May. The future general business activity index
was 8, its lowest reading since September 2010, and the future
company outlook index also fell to an 8-month low. Future
indexes of manufacturing conditions also fell in May, but
remained in solid positive territory.  The Dallas Fed conducts the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey
monthly to obtain a timely assessment of the state’s factory
activity. Data were collected May 17-25, and 93 Texas
manufacturers responded to the survey. Firms are asked whether
output, employment, orders, prices and other indicators
increased, decreased or remained unchanged over the previous
month.  Survey responses are used to calculate an index for each
indicator. Each index is calculated by subtracting the
percentage of respondents reporting a decrease from the
percentage reporting an increase. When the share of firms
reporting an increase exceeds the share reporting a decrease,
the index will be greater than zero, suggesting the indicator
has increased over the prior month. If the share of firms
reporting a decrease exceeds the share reporting an increase,
the index will be below zero, suggesting the indicator has
decreased over the prior month. An index will be zero when the
number of firms reporting an increase is equal to the number of
firms reporting a decrease. 