-- 
Home Prices in U.S. Probably Kept Falling as Housing Absent From Recovery

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-05-31T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/u-s-home-prices-probably-slumped-on-distressed-properties.html
U.S. home prices probably slumped in
March by the most in 16 months, indicating residential real
estate will keep weighing on the expansion, economists said
before a report today.  Property values in 20 cities dropped 3.4 percent from March
2010, the biggest year-over-year decline since November 2009,
according to the median forecast of 25 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News ahead of a report from S&P/Case-Shiller. Other
reports may show manufacturing slowed in May and  consumer
confidence  rose as fuel costs eased.  “Weak demand and a deluge of discounted sales of
distressed properties have weighed significantly on prices,”
said  Aaron Smith , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc.
in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “It’s hard to be enthusiastic
about the economy’s prospects as long as  house prices  are
falling.”  A backlog of foreclosures poised to reach the market means
prices may stay depressed, dissuading builders from taking on
new-home construction projects. The figures come as recent
reports on manufacturing and consumer spending show the economy
is slowing.  The Case-Shiller report is due at 9 a.m. New York time.
Estimates for the year-over-year change in March home prices
ranged from declines of 4.9 percent to 2.8 percent. Economists
surveyed projected the gauge of residential real-estate values
decreased 0.2 percent in March from the prior month, the same as
in February, after adjusting for seasonal variations.  The year-over-year gauge provides better indications of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel comprises  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the index.  Recession Low  The 20-city gauge fell in February to 139.27, compared with
a recession low of 139.26 in April 2009.  Reports earlier this month showed the housing market
remains depressed at the same time the rest of the economy has
cooled.  Sales of previously owned homes fell 0.8 percent in April
to a 5.05 million rate, with distressed sales accounting for 37
percent of the total, the National Association of Realtors said
May 19.  Pending sales of previously owned homes plunged 12 percent
in April from the prior month, the group said last week. The
gauge measures contract signings, which typically lead closings
by one to two months.  Builders are gloomy and project housing demand will remain
depressed into next year, Bill Wheat, chief financial officer of
D.R. Horton Inc., told a housing conference in  New York  on May
11.  ‘Very Weak’  “We still see housing demand at very weak levels,” Wheat
said. “We feel like it could still be a struggle in 2012.”  The lack of demand has hurt homebuilding stocks in the last
year. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index,
which includes Toll Brothers Inc. and Lennar Corp., has dropped
4.3 percent in the 12 months to May 27, while the broader  S&P
500  has increased 21 percent.  Job gains and a retreat in gasoline prices were enough to
lift consumer confidence in May. The Conference Board’s measure
increased to 66.5 from an April reading of 65.4, according to
the median estimate of economists surveyed before the 10 a.m.
release. The index averaged 53.7 during the December 2007-June
2009 recession and 98 during the prior economic expansion that
ended in December 2007.  After surging to $3.99 per gallon nationally on May 4, fuel
costs have since moderated. Regular gasoline dropped to $3.81 a
gallon on May 26, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest
motoring organization.  Cutting Back  As gas prices took a bigger chunk out of household incomes,
Americans cut back on less essential goods and services. Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. is among retailers that have felt the pinch.
Sales at U.S. Wal-Mart stores open at least a year dropped 1.1
percent in the first quarter, the eighth decline in a row, the
world’s largest retailer said this month.  Manufacturing, which accounts for 12 percent of the
economy, is also cooling, partly because of disruptions in the
supply of components made in  Japan  following the earthquake and
tsunami two months ago.  U.S. businesses probably grew at a slower pace in May, a
survey may show. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago
Inc.’s barometer dropped to 62 this month from 67.6 in April,
according to economists’ forecasts before the 9:45 a.m. release.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  