-- 
Uganda’s Annual Inflation Rate Climbs to 17-Year High as Food Prices Jump

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-05-31T11:13:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/uganda-s-annual-inflation-accelerated-to-16-in-may-as-food-prices-jumped.html
Inflation in  Uganda , where protests
erupted last month over the rising cost of living, accelerated
to the highest level in 17 years in May as food prices surged.  The annual inflation rate increased to 16 percent, the
highest since May 1994, from 14.1 percent in April, the Uganda
Bureau of Statistics said in a statement handed to reporters
today in Kampala, the capital. Prices rose 1.1 percent in the
month, while the cost of foods including bananas, potatoes and
bread jumped 35 percent from a year earlier, it said.  “The increase in prices of these food items is primarily
attributed to transport costs and reduced supplies to the
market,” the bureau said. “Likewise, prices for petrol, diesel
and paraffin went up in most centers.”  Opposition groups including the Forum for Democratic Change
began so-called walk-to-work protests in April over rising
prices. Police sprayed teargas and fired rubber bullet to quash
the twice-weekly demonstrations. Yesterday, the FDC called off
the protests because of the crackdown by the authorities,
spokesman Wafula Ogutu told reporters.  The annual inflation rate for goods other than food was 19
percent in May, while services climbed 2.6 percent, according to
the bureau. The underlying annual inflation rate, which excludes
food, fuel, electricity and metered-water costs, rose to 11.3
percent in May from 9.7 percent in April, it said.  Uganda, with a population of more than 31.7 million people
and a $16 billion economy, according to the  World Bank , is
 Africa ’s second-biggest coffee producer, after  Ethiopia , and the
biggest robusta coffee producer on the continent.  Food prices have increased in the country after a drought
curbed crop production, according to the  Agriculture Ministry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 