-- 
United Bucks Industry Keeping First-Class Seats After Merger

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-05-31T20:37:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/united-bucks-industry-in-keeping-first-class-cabins-after-merger.html
United Airlines  will keep three-class
cabins on some wide-body jets, separating itself from some peers
switching to two tiers of service, as its meshes fleets with
Continental Airlines after their merger.  Retaining  first-class  seats on current United planes is
best for the international routes where passengers are willing
to pay top prices, Chief Executive Officer Jeff Smisek said.
While Continental’s jets have only business and coach seats, 57
United aircraft have first-class cabins as well.  “There are certain markets in which that makes a lot of
sense and there are others where it doesn’t,” Smisek said in an
interview at the Chicago headquarters of  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)  “We’ll have a good mix of aircraft and we can
move those aircraft around.”  Choosing cabin layouts is a pivotal step as the carriers
blend operations into the world’s largest airline after their
October merger. Keeping first class is a departure from peers
dropping all or most of the seats, as  Australia ’s  Qantas Airways
Ltd. (QAN)  did in 2010, or Continental and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  did
years earlier.  Premium passengers are airlines’ lifeblood, because they
usually pay the highest fares, tend to travel on short notice
and fly more often. Carriers with only two classes of service
often call their top cabin “first/business.”  United is charging $17,471 for a walkup, first-class ticket
between  San Francisco  and Beijing, and $1,993 for a coach seat,
according to the carrier’s website. A business-class fare, with
more amenities than an economy ticket, is $7,076.  ‘Superb Name’  While the parent company uses the United and Continental
names, its jets will be repainted using only the United name,
along with Continental’s globe logo. Part of the reason for
keeping both names at the corporate level is travelers’
awareness of United’s first-class service, Smisek said.  “Internationally, the Continental name is not well known,
and the United name is a superb name offshore,” said Smisek,
56, who became CEO of Houston-based Continental about four
months before the merger was unveiled in May 2010. “We tried to
meld the two, because the international business is an important
part of our business.”  About 40 percent of the airline’s $7.2 billion in first-
quarter passenger revenue came from international flying. United
Continental expects the merger to create as much as $1.2 billion
in so-called synergies, including about $900 million in
incremental new revenue.  Lie-Flat Seats  United has first-class cabins on some of its  Boeing Co. (BA) 
747s, 767s and 777s, joining  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  as
the only major U.S. carriers with three service levels on some
flights. The combined United Continental has 1,260 planes,
counting regional aircraft. It has 120 jets with lie-flat seats
in first and business class, more than any other U.S. airline.  Flying jets with different cabin configurations will mean
matching the jets with the routes on which some passengers are
willing to pay for first-class tickets, instead of getting the
seats through an upgrade, Smisek said. Airlines reward their
 most-frequent fliers  with top-tier seats when available.  United also will have to work to minimize any confusion
among travelers hoping for a first-class upgrade only to find
that their jet has just business class and coach, he said.  Sixty-three of Continental’s Boeing 777 and 757-200 jets
have  flat-bed seats in business class , similar to those offered
by Delta. Continental’s fleet of 767 planes has older,  cradle-
style seats .  Spare Planes  That means juggling backup aircraft to ensure that spare
planes have flat-bed seats for routes to  London ’s Heathrow
airport, where Continental guarantees the availability of that
option.  “You could have an equipment swap with a 767 and someone
gets an old seat and is disappointed,” Smisek said. “That’s a
problem with differentiated products. We will have to deal with
that. We have to make sure customers understand the products on
which we have which seats.”  Continental’s cabin upgrades before the merger, including
the installation of lie-flat seats, “blurred some of the
distinction” between first and business class, Chief Revenue
Officer Jim Compton said in an interview.  “There are a lot of markets that work in two-class, and
Continental has been really successful with that,” said
Compton, who came from Continental. “We have United 747s that
have gone through a real recent reconfiguration with flat-beds
in both first and business. So we’ll have both.”  Extra Legroom  The combined carrier decided earlier to keep United’s
“Economy Plus” seats in the coach cabin, which offer as much
as 5 more inches (13 centimeters) of legroom for as little as
$9, and add similar seats to Continental planes.  Smisek said he was initially “suspicious” of Economy Plus
and thought the combined carrier would drop it, until he learned
about the option’s profitability after the merger was completed.  “Going into the transaction a year ago, I would have
guessed it would come out the other way,” Smisek said of
Economy Plus. “When we got the facts and got the merchandising
folks together to talk about how we could market the product
effectively -- and this wasn’t even weighing at all the loyalty
value, just the pure money -- it’s a very good business decision
for us.”  United Continental slid 11 cents to $24.15 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have risen
1.4 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Chicago at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  