-- 
Turkey’s Trade Deficit Was $9.1 Billion Last Month, Less Than Forecast

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-05-31T07:56:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/turkey-s-trade-deficit-was-9-1-billion-last-month-less-than-forecast.html
Turkey ’s trade deficit expanded less
than expected in April, bolstering the central bank’s argument
that its restrictions on lending are working to reduce the
current-account deficit.  The gap was $9.1 billion in the month, compared with $5.5
billion a year earlier and a record $9.8 billion in March, the
statistics office in Ankara said on its website today. The
figure was less than the median estimate of $9.8 billion from
six analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The central bank has raised the amount of reserves banks
must set aside four times since December, seeking to reduce the
 consumer lending  that’s fueling demand for imports. Governor
Erdem Basci said on May 12 that the  trade gap , excluding energy
imports, would start improving from the second quarter onward.  “The central bank will feel better about this given the
low level of conviction about the ongoing monetary policy
stance,”  Tevfik Aksoy , chief economist for the region at  Morgan
Stanley & Co . in London, said in an e-mail. “We should witness
a more pronounced impact later on.”  The lira and bonds gained after the figures were released.
The lira strengthened 0.7 percent to 1.5936 per dollar at 10:18
a.m. in Istanbul. Yields on two-year debt dropped 7 basis points
to 8.94 percent, according to the TEB local benchmark bond
index.  Exports climbed 27 percent to $11.9 billion. Imports gained
40 percent to $21 billion, the office said.  Consumer goods made up 13.1 percent of the import bill in
April, compared with 13.7 percent in March, according to today’s
statement. Imports of raw materials, which include oil and gas,
were 73 percent of the total in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 