-- 
Turkish Stocks Jump Most in Two Months on Slowing Trade Deficit

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-05-31T15:16:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/turkish-stocks-head-for-biggest-gain-in-a-week-lira-strengthens.html
Turkish stocks rose the most in
almost two months and bonds rallied after lower-than-expected
expansion in April’s trade deficit and on speculation European
nations will pledge more funds for  Greece .  The  ISE National 100 index (XU100)  added 2.5 percent to 63,046.02
at the 5:30 p.m. close in Istanbul, the biggest advance since
April 4. Yields on two-year debt dropped the most in three
weeks, sliding seven basis points to 8.94 percent, according to
the TEB local benchmark bond index. The lira appreciated 0.4
percent to 1.5974 per dollar.  Turkey’s April trade deficit widened to $9.1 billion, the
statistics office in Ankara said on its website today. The
figure was less than a median estimate of $9.8 billion from six
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. European Union leaders will
decide on a new aid package for Greece by the end of next month,
said Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers.  “The markets see this data as the slowing of growth’s
momentum,” Burak Ahmet Ustay, assistant general manager at
WestLB AG in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  The central bank has increased  reserve requirements  for
banks four times since December in a bid to slow lending, which
is being used to buy imported goods and widening the current-
account gap.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  rose 4.1 percent to 7.12 liras
in its biggest advance since April 4.  Annual loan growth is exceeding 35 percent currently
compared with a central bank target of 25 percent, banking
regulator data published yesterday showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  