-- 
Vale’s $1.1 Billion Metorex Bid Backed by Largest Holder

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-05-31T16:44:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/vale-s-1-1-billion-offer-for-metorex-supported-by-miner-s-biggest-holder.html
Vale SA (VALE) , the world’s biggest iron-ore
producer, won backing for its $1.1 billion bid for  Metorex Ltd. (MTX) 
from the target’s biggest shareholder, increasing support for a
takeover to at least 40 percent.  “The decision was to support the Vale offer,” Abel Malinga, head of the mining unit at Industrial Development
Corp., said by mobile phone today. Backing from South Africa’s
state lender adds to support Vale had obtained from the holders
of 25.8 percent of the Johannesburg-based copper producer when
it announced the bid on April 8.  Vale is seeking to boost output of copper almost fivefold
to 1 million metric tons by 2015, betting prices will extend
gains. The 7.35 rand ($1.08) per-share bid for Metorex would
give Vale the Ruashi copper and cobalt open-pit mine in the
Democratic Republic of Congo, where the company is also
developing the Lubembe and Dilala projects.  Vale may now have support from investors holding more than
50 percent of the stock, Jacques de Bie, an external spokesman
for Metorex, said by phone from Johannesburg, citing his own
interaction with shareholders. The IDC’s support “sends a
strong message” to other holders, he said.  Rob Pinker, a spokesman for Rio de Janeiro-based Vale in
 South Africa , couldn’t immediately comment when Bloomberg News
reached him by mobile phone today.  “We will be talking to them in terms of their investment
plans,” Malinga said of Vale, when asked about the IDC’s
interest in projects planned by Metorex. Vale will be able to
develop ventures faster than Metorex can on its own, he said.
The IDC invested about 370 million rand in the company, Malinga
said.  Metorex has had interest from companies that the African
copper producer can’t name, De Bie said.  Metorex rose 0.3 percent to 7.15 rand by the 5 p.m. close
of Johannesburg trade, giving the company a value of 7.2 billion
rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 