-- 
Venice Biennale Displays Upside-Down Tank, Ottoman Decay: Review

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-05-31T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/venice-biennale-displays-upside-down-tank-ottoman-decay-martin-gayford.html
Trust the U.S. to come up with some
razzamatazz.  In most other national pavilions at the 54th  Venice
Biennale , installations of a distinctly low-key mood are
widespread. Among them is a radical remodeling of the British
Pavilion into a facsimile of a semi-derelict structure in
Istanbul (more on that below).  The U.S. artists Allora & Calzadilla buck the trend
(supported by  Hugo Boss ) with their piece  “Gloria.”  For a
start, theirs is the noisiest exhibition not just this year but
in recent Biennale memory. At intervals, the 60-ton tank placed
upside down grinds into life creating a clattering, heavy-
industrial sound.  Inside the pavilion, one piece consists of a combination
between a giant pipe organ and a fully functional ATM machine.
When you insert a card, thunderous music emerges, and also -- if
you wish -- a Euro advance from your bank account.  There’s not only sound, there’s also action.
Intermittently, gymnasts perform inside on reproductions of
spacious, expensive airline seats.  Outside, a runner strides on a tread mill attached to one
of the tracks. The machine and the person pound on pointlessly.
The tank itself, upended, looks prehistoric, its gun barrel
extending along the ground like a reptile’s tail.  The work of Allora & Calzadilla is fun. But does it mean
anything? There’s some sort of metaphor here -- about
mechanization, sport, nationalism and competition -- though it’s
too much fun to be scathing or even very clear.  Rotting Labyrinth  The  British Pavilion , by Mike Nelson, has the reverse of
pizzazz. His work, titled, “I, Imposter” consists of an
astonishingly precise reproduction of a warren of decaying,
17th-century buildings -- an Ottoman trading inn -- in what was  
then the empire's capital. As a feat of fabrication it’s startling
since the British Pavilion is a neat piece of 19th-century classicism.  Inside, the pavilion has been recast into a labyrinth of
rotting rooms, featuring low-quality concrete, eastern
Mediterranean plumbing arrangements, moldering piles of junk,
deserted work benches strewn with rusting tools, precipitous
stairs, defunct electrical equipment, piles of rubbish, and an
entire, ramshackle inner courtyard (sited where one of the finer
galleries usually stands).  All this is a reconstruction of an installation that Nelson
presented in  Turkey  in 2003, plus the building it was housed in.
On first entering, you’re apt to conclude that this is a
masterpiece of perversity: expensively converting a nice
building into a horrible one. One visitor commented that it
strongly reminded him of his parents’ basement.  Sinister Allure  The point of it all is far from clear. Still, it grows on
you. There’s a feeling of having found your way into somewhere
you’re not supposed to be, a seedy, slightly sinister place with
a complicated history. It lingers in the memory, admittedly not
in an altogether pleasant way.  The other main contender in the dispiriting-installation
category is Christian Boltanski’s work for the French Pavilion.
This makes a statement about the human condition, rather too
obviously. A strip of photographs of newborn babies runs at high
speed over a colossal scaffolding frame, stopping at random
moments when a bell rings.  To the sides, illumined figures monitor people being born
and dying right now. There’s a clear point, at last: We’re all
random members of a vast population, constantly being replaced.
If you find that depressing, perhaps the best thing is to go
back to that cash point for some cheerful organ music.  Information:  http://www.labiennale.org   (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in Venice at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 