-- 
Vietnam May Delay Higher Power Price Amid Asia’s Worst Inflation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-01T01:28:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/vietnam-may-delay-higher-power-price-amid-asia-s-worst-inflation.html
Vietnam, battling  Asia ’s highest
inflation rate, may put off increases in electricity prices even
as the country faces “chronic” power shortages.  Vietnam Electricity, the state-run monopoly and largest
power provider in the country, won’t request higher rates when
new regulations allowing quarterly adjustments in retail prices
come into effect today, Dang Hoang An, the Hanoi-based deputy
general director, said in an interview yesterday. While an
increase is “very necessary,” the company known as EVN is
waiting for government instructions, he said.  “Closing the gap between generation cost and retail
electricity prices is a necessary step for EVN to carry out the
necessary investment for maintaining the existing grid and
develop generation capacity faster than consumption,” said
Olivier Jacquet, chairman of the  European Chamber of Commerce’s 
Energy and Infrastructure Committee.  Subsidies have helped keep  Vietnam ’s electricity prices the
lowest among members in the  Association of Southeast Asian
Nations , or Asean. Now it’s struggling to generate enough power
to fuel its growing manufacturing industry, narrow a trade
deficit, and tame  Southeast Asia ’s fastest inflation.  China  will
raise electricity costs for non-residential users this month as
it seeks to prevent a shortage forecast to be its worst ever.
Malaysia has also announced increases this month.  Power Shortages  “Chronic” power shortages are slowing growth in Vietnam’s
agriculture, industry and services industries,  according to the
World Bank . To meet demand, the country needs to more than
double installed generation capacity to 39 gigawatts by 2020
from about 16 gigawatts at the end of 2008, it said. Under the
current system, the retail prices that Vietnam Electricity is
allowed to charge are set by the government and are often below
the cost to generate power.  The  European Chamber of Commerce’s  Energy and
Infrastructure Committee estimates that Vietnam’s overall
electricity shortage is about 10 percent of existing capacity.
At 6 cents a kilowatt hour, Vietnam has the lowest average
electricity price in Asean, according to EuroCham. Prices are
less than half those in neighboring Laos, Cambodia or  Thailand .  Prices would have to rise 62 percent to stem EVN’s losses,
according to online newswire VnExpress. It cited Vietnam’s
Finance Minister Vu Van Ninh on Feb. 24.  EVN said Feb. 16 that it was selling power at 30 percent to
40 percent less than production cost, according to a statement
on the government’s website. The utility recently struggled to
pay power suppliers, said Dinh The Phuc, deputy head of the
 Electricity Regulatory Authority of Vietnam , or ERAV, at a
briefing in Hanoi May 18.  ‘Massive Political Issue’  Further rises in power prices are likely to be politically
sensitive as the government tries to tackle inflation. A record
15 percent increase in power prices in March contributed to
consumer prices rising 20 percent in May from a year earlier.
Vietnam’s inflation rate is the highest among 14 Asian economies
tracked by Bloomberg.  “Electricity prices are a massive political issue,” said
Giles Cooper, a partner at law firm  Duane Morris  in Hanoi who
has advised on power-plant projects in Vietnam. “The last few
months people have been pretty unhappy with inflation and the
dong depreciation, and they’re already looking at significant
rises in electricity prices and other utilities.”  Vietnam will need to build  power plants  with total capacity
of more than 50,000 megawatts through 2020, according to an
estimate given by Pham Hung, deputy director of the energy
department of the Ministry of Industry and Trade at a May 3
meeting of the  Asian Development Bank  in Hanoi. The government
will propose policies to encourage investors to help build more
power plants, he added.  Private Investment  “You cannot attract private investment in electricity
generation if you don’t increase the retail price,” Nguyen Xuan
Thanh, a Ho Chi Minh City-based economist with the Vietnam
Program at the Harvard Kennedy School, said by telephone. “You
need to offer a better wholesale price to the independent power
producers. You can only do that if you adjust the retail
prices.”  EVN warned earlier this year that the country could face
rolling blackouts as low water levels at hydroelectricity
reservoirs limit power output.  “There are a number of industries that, because of this
unreliability of power, have had to price in their own
generators,” said Hank Tomlinson, chairman of the  American
Chamber of Commerce  in Hanoi. “The cost of that power is
drastically higher than EVN’s, which shows companies are willing
to pay more for electricity if they’ve got the confidence in it
being there.”  Generation Competition  Vietnam plans to embark July 1 on the first phase of a 13-
year plan for a competitive  electricity market . Under a six-
month pilot project, generators will compete against each other
to sell power to a central purchasing company, according to the
Ministry of Industry and Trade. The market is slated to start
operations next year.  The attempt to introduce a competitive generation market
may be premature, according to Duane Morris’ Cooper.  “I think they need more time to get that right before they
can start to move into a competitive environment,” he said.
“Given the need for power in this country and their lack of
familiarity with a competitive electricity market, I think it’s
too soon for them to be moving into that.”  The  Ministry of Industry and Trade  aims to complete the
pilot’s legal framework and other outstanding procedures by June
20, it said May 18. A ministry official said the pilot program
is the first stage toward a competitive market and could not
guarantee an instant remedy to the country’s power problems.  “Many countries have faced failure so we shouldn’t be too
optimistic that once we have a competitive power market, that
will solve all the problems we face today,” Hoang Quoc Vuong,
deputy minister of industry and trade, said at the May 18
briefing.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  