-- 
U.S., Virginia Say Appeals Court Has Authority in Health-Care Cases

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-31T23:39:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/virginia-says-u-s-appeals-court-has-authority-in-health-care-cases.html
Lawyers challenging and defending the
constitutionality of the Obama administration’s health-care plan
urged a federal appeals panel not to drop its review after the
court voiced concern that federal law may bar its involvement.  The three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Richmond,  Virginia , considering two lower-court rulings on the
health-care law questioned whether the Anti-Injunction Act,
which generally blocks decisions on tax law before taxes are
collected, prevents the court from ruling on a challenge to the
statute’s requirement that most Americans buy health insurance.  The  Justice Department , in a reversal of arguments made
before lower courts, said in a filing today that the court has
jurisdiction over the case because Congress didn’t intend to
dictate a single route to judicial evaluation of the law.  In the lower court, the Justice Department’s attempts to
win dismissal of challenges to the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act under the Anti-Injunction Act were rejected.
The government didn’t cite the law on appeal.  “On further reflection, and on consideration of the
decisions rendered thus far in the ACA litigation, the  United
States  has concluded that the AIA does not foreclose the
exercise of jurisdiction in these cases,” the department wrote.  Lower Court Rulings  The appeals judges are examining one lower-court ruling
that upheld the health-care law and another that struck down
part of it. On May 10, during back-to-back arguments lasting
about two hours, the issue of the court’s jurisdiction was
touched on by one of the lawyers, then dropped without questions
from the court.  The Virginia appeals stem from a challenge to the law by
the state of Virginia and another by Liberty University, a
Christian school founded in Lynchburg, Virginia, by the late
Reverend Jerry Falwell.  Virginia said in a filing today that there are exceptions
to the Anti-Injunction Act and its lawsuit is one of them
because it involves a state law that is being infringed upon by
the federal insurance mandate. After President  Barack Obama 
signed the legislation, Virginia enacted a law barring
compulsory purchase of health insurance by the state’s
residents.  “Given that the only way in which the injury to Virginia’s
sovereign interests, i.e., the sweeping aside of a Virginia
statute, can be addressed is through this suit, the AIA does not
serve as a bar to Virginia’s action,” E. Duncan Getchell,
Virginia’s solicitor general, wrote.  Rulings Under Review  In court, the government argued that the legislation is an
extension of Congress’s power to tax economic activity. People
who fail to buy coverage starting in 2014 would face a penalty
to be included on an individual’s tax return.  Liberty University, in a filing today, said that its
lawsuit is also exempt from the Anti-Injunction Act because the
fines associated with the insurance mandate aren’t taxes.  “The government cannot prevail on a claim that the
mandates are taxes, since the mandates themselves are compelled
purchases of a product, or penalties for failure to purchase a
product, not taxes,” Mathew Staver, dean of Liberty University
School of Law, wrote.  Liberty University argues the fines are designed to deter
non-compliance, not raise revenue.  The cases are Liberty University v. Geithner, 10-02347, and
Commonwealth of Virginia v. Sebelius, 11-01057 and 11-01058,
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  