-- 
Wal-Mart’s Massmart Takeover Bid Approved, Angering Unions

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-05-31T20:06:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/wal-mart-s-2-4-billion-bid-for-south-africa-massmart-approved-with-terms.html
South African antitrust authorities
approved  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s 16.5 billion rand ($2.4 billion)
takeover of  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM)  with the same conditions
proposed by the retailers, angering labor unions.  The companies must ensure no jobs are cut for two years and
that existing labor agreements are honored for three years after
the purchase, the Pretoria-based  Competition Tribunal  said in an
e-mailed statement today. Wal-Mart and Massmart should also
establish a 100 million-rand supplier-development fund, it said.  “This was a very important test case” for foreign direct
investment into South Africa, said Peter Attard Montalto, an
economist at Nomura International Plc in  London . “All this will
go to show whilst South Africa is open for business, the costs
and difficulties of investing are great.”  South Africa ’s government and labor unions, who helped
sweep President  Jacob Zuma  into power, opposed Wal-Mart’s entry
into South Africa on concern it may result in job losses,
raising criticism from opposition parties that the country could
deter foreign investment. South African government departments
also tried to halt the takeover by  Japan ’s Kansai Paint Co. of
Freeworld Coatings Ltd., which won conditional antitrust
approval last month.  Wal-Mart Win  The Congress of South African Trade Unions, the nation’s
biggest labor federation, will encourage its 2 million members
to boycott  Wal-Mart stores  and hold demonstrations and pickets
in protest of the decision to approve the transaction, Cosatu
spokesman Patrick Craven said in an interview broadcast on
Johannesburg-based e-News Channel.  “It’s a victory for Wal-Mart,” he said, adding that
Cosatu wanted more “concrete” conditions on the use of local
suppliers imposed on the retailers for fear that Wal-Mart will
use its buying power to boost imports, harming local industries
and suppliers. Zuma’s administration has pledged to create 5
million new jobs  over the next decade to cut the nation’s 25
percent unemployment rate.  Wal-Mart rose 52 cents to $55.22 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Massmart rose 1.8 percent to
142.56 rand by the 5 p.m. close in Johannesburg, extending its
gains over the past 12 months to 21 percent. The rand
strengthened 1.8 percent to 6.8172 per dollar.  Adding Jobs  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest employer with 2.1 million
workers, will expand Massmart’s South African business, adding
to jobs,  Andy Bond , Wal-Mart’s executive vice-president
responsible for the U.K. and Africa, said on May 11 at hearings
held by the Competition Tribunal. It aims to use its 51 percent
stake in Massmart, which has almost 300 stores in 14 African
countries, to lead its expansion in sub-Saharan Africa.  “The big deal is Africa,” Chris Gilmour, an analyst at
Johannesburg-based Absa Management Ltd., said. “The continent
is the flavor of the month for investors.”  The acquisition of Massmart, South Africa’s largest
wholesaler, is Wal-Mart’s second-biggest after the $11 billion
takeover of U.K. retailer Asda in 1999. In terms of the
antitrust conditions, the retailers will give preference to 503
workers Massmart fired last year when it starts rehiring
employees, the companies said in a statement.  The transaction will be closed in “a matter of a few
weeks,” Wal-Mart International Chief Executive Officer Doug McMillon said on a conference call. Massmart will now start
opening new stores in  Africa , he said.  More Aggressive Dividends  Massmart Chief Executive Officer Grant Pattison said on May
9 that the company plans to expand trading space by 20 percent
over the next three years. Growth in floor space will boost
sales by a similar margin and will also increase jobs while
securing current posts, said Pattison. Its food business will
expand by more than 50 percent over the next 5 years, the
companies said.  Massmart is “geared toward” opening between 50 and 100
stores in the next three years, Pattison said on the conference
call with reporters. The combined entity will spend about 1
billion rand a year on capital expenditure while seeking to
enter the Democratic Republic of Congo and  Senegal .  “We will be slightly more aggressive on investments and
dividend payments,” Pattison said. The Competition Tribunal’s
decision should give confidence to the investor community about
South Africa as it showed that “we can rely on the rule of
law,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  