-- 
Wells Fargo to Pay $16 Million to End Disabilities Claims

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-06-01T02:36:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/wells-fargo-to-pay-16-million-to-end-disabilities-claims-1-.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S.
home lender, agreed to pay as much as $16 million to resolve
claims that the bank wouldn’t do business with deaf and hearing-
impaired people using a telecommunications relay service, the
 Justice Department  said.  Hearing and speech impaired individuals were referred to a
phone line for the deaf that asked them to leave a message that
went unanswered, the government said in an e-mailed statement
today. Wells Fargo will pay as much as $16 million to people for
violations of the American with Disabilities Act, plus a $55,000
civil penalty and a $1 million donation to charity, according to
the statement.  The company will accept relay calls and take other steps to
assist disabled consumers wishing to do business by phone, by
computer, at branches and at automatic teller machines under the
settlement.  “We are committed to serving our customers with
disabilities” Richele Messick, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo, said in a phone interview.  Some of Wells Fargo’s call centers stopped accepting calls
made through relay services because of fraud concerns and
referred the calls to a dedicated line for the deaf, the bank
said in the agreement. The bank denied it violated the
disabilities act.  Wells Fargo formed a  task force  after customers complained
about the line for the deaf and began accepting
telecommunication relay calls again a year ago, before the
Justice Department began its investigation, Messick said.  Wells Fargo worked on a settlement once the government
opened an investigation, the Justice Department said. Other
major financial institutions are refusing to communicate with
disabled people who use relay services to communicate by
telephone, which is discrimination, the government said. The
banks should accept relay calls immediately, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  