-- 
West Africa Central Bank Names Ivory Coast’s Kone Governor

-- B y   D r e w   H i n s h a w   a n d   E t o n a m   D i g o
-- 
2011-05-31T18:34:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/west-africa-central-bank-says-it-appoints-ivory-coast-s-meyliet-governor.html
Tiemoko Meyliet Kone was named
governor of the  Central Bank  of West African States, where he
will face the challenge of rebuilding Ivory Coast’s postwar
economy, the biggest in the monetary union.  Kone, an Ivorian, will replace Burkina Faso’s Jean-Baptiste Compaore, who was named interim head of the Dakar-based bank
following the resignation in January of Philippe-Henri Dacourey-
Tabley, according to a statement published on the website of the
Economic and Monetary Union of West Africa, which oversees the
central bank.  Ivory Coast, the world’s top cocoa producer, is recovering
from a 4 1/2 month violent impasse that followed a disputed
November presidential election.  Laurent Gbagbo , who ruled for a
decade and refused to step down after losing the vote to
 Alassane Ouattara , continued to draw money from the central
bank, even after the institution recognized Ouattara’s victory.  “We suspect one of Kone’s top priorities will be the
revival of the Ivorian economy and banking system, which means a
tighter monetary policy stance is still unlikely in 2011, even
as inflation will probably pick up in the sub-region,” said
 Samir Gadio , emerging markets strategist at Standard Bank Plc in
 London , in an e-mailed note today.  The central bank left its lending rates unchanged at its
last Monetary Policy Committee meeting in March as it gauged the
impact of the Ivorian crisis on the region.  Kone, who was Ivory Coast’s minister for construction and
urban planning in 2010 and spent three years before that as
Prime Minister  Guillaume Soro ’s cabinet director, was governor
of the central bank’s Ivory Coast office from 1991 to 1998,
according to Fraternite Matin, an Abidjan, state-owned
newspaper.  The Economic and Monetary Union of West Africa, which
oversees the bank, also approved 2 billion CFA francs ($4.4
million) in funding for Ivory Coast’s “national reconciliation
actions,” according to a statement published on the group’s
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Hinshaw in Dakar via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
Etonam Digo in Lome via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 