-- 
Wheat Tumbles as Russia Plans to Halt Export Ban; Corn, Soybeans Decline

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-05-31T19:27:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/wheat-falls-as-russia-plans-to-end-export-ban-corn-steady-soybeans-gain.html
Wheat had the biggest drop in almost
three weeks as  Russia  pledged to resume exports after July 1,
easing supply concerns. Corn and soybeans futures also fell.  Russia was once the world’s second-largest wheat shipper.
On May 28, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  announced the end of
the export ban that was implemented in August following the
most-severe drought in at least 50 years. The International
Grains Council estimates that global harvests will trail demand
as adverse weather in  Europe  and the U.S. erode crop prospects.  “Russia certainly takes some of the pressure off of the EU
crop and the Ukraine crop, and how much they can export,” said
Mike Zuzolo, the president of Global Commodity Analytics &
Consulting in Lafayette,  Indiana . “The trade is going to be on
pins and needles for the next month, once we start to see the
harvest progress.”  Wheat futures for July delivery fell 37.5 cents, or 4.6
percent, to settle at $7.8225 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade, capping the biggest decline since May
11. In the previous two weeks, the price jumped 13 percent as EU
and southern U.S. droughts intensified, while wet weather in the
northern U.S. and  Canada  inhibited planting of spring crops.  Russia may export 15 million metric tons of grain this
year, Interfax reported, citing First Deputy Prime Minister
Viktor Zubkov. Plantings climbed 10 percent to 24 million
hectares (59 million acres), and the government has more than 6
million tons in reserves.  Global Outlook  Farmers worldwide will reap 667 million tons of wheat,
trailing demand of 669 million tons, the International Grains
Council said on May 26. The agency pared its production estimate
from 672 million tons in April. The U.S. is the leading
exporter.  Global demand for U.S. corn exports may decline as some
countries buy wheat from Russia to feed livestock, said Brian Grete, the senior market analyst for Professional Farmers of
America newsletter in  Cedar Falls ,  Iowa .  Russia may have “very little coming out in terms of
milling-quality wheat,” Grete said. “Feed wheat will be the
bulk of their exportable supplies. They will get some Asian
buyers and North Africa and the  Middle East .”  Wheat futures fell 2.4 percent this month. The price has
jumped 71 percent in the past year.  Corn futures for July delivery fell 11 cents, or 1.5
percent, to $7.475 a bushel. The commodity, down 1.2 percent
this month, has more than doubled in the past year on rising
demand from ethanol producers and livestock feeders.  Soybean futures for July delivery dropped 3.75 cents, or
0.3 percent, to $13.76 a bushel. The price, down 1.3 percent in
May, has gained 47 percent in the past year.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, government figures
show. Wheat was fourth at $13 billion, behind hay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  