-- 
Cell-Phone Use Possibly Cancer-Causing, WHO Group Says

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-06-01T10:04:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/who-group-finds-cell-phone-radiation-possibly-carcinogenic.html
Mobile phones  may cause brain cancer
in humans, a  World Health Organization  agency said, citing a
review of studies.  Exposure to radiofrequency electromagnetic fields from
handsets is greater than that from phone towers and base
stations, Robert Baan, the senior scientist in charge of the
International Agency for Research on Cancer  report  on the
subject, said on a conference call with reporters. The fields
are “possibly” carcinogenic, the same category as  diesel fuel ,
chloroform and working as a firefighter, according to the IARC,
based in Lyon,  France , which classifies cancer risks.  This is the first time an agency working group has surveyed
research on radiofrequency electromagnetic fields to make a
definitive classification, the IARC said yesterday. The agency
didn’t issue guidelines for cell-phone use and said more study
is needed after finding some evidence for an increased risk of
glioma, or  brain cancer .  “It’s not at the moment clearly established that the use
of mobile phones does in fact cause cancer,” said Kurt Straif,
head of the IARC Monographs Program, adding that the research
points to ways in which risks may be lowered. “For example, the
highest exposure is from voice calls. If you use text messaging
or headsets, this will lower the exposure.”  Flawed Data?  Concerns have risen in recent years that cell phones might
be harmful to the health of people who use them, according to
the WHO agency, which said there are 5 billion wireless
subscriptions worldwide. The U.S. Federal Communication
Commission has said devices with a specific absorption rate, the
amount of radio-frequency energy absorbed by the body, within a
set  limit  are safe.  The IARC considers studies in its reviews that may have
flawed data, John Walls, vice president of public affairs for
the CTIA wireless industry trade group in  Washington , D.C., said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The classification doesn’t
mean mobile phones cause cancer, Walls said.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the largest maker of mobile phones by the number
of units sold, said today its products comply with international
exposure guidelines and limits set by public health authorities.
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of the iPhone, didn’t respond to requests
for comment yesterday.  ‘Limited Evidence’  “It is important to note that the IARC has not classified
radiofrequency electromagnetic fields as definitely nor even
probably carcinogenic to humans,” Espoo, Finland-based Nokia
said in an e-mailed statement. The agency has “only concluded
that, based on limited evidence, it may be possible that there
could be some increased risk for certain cancers.”  The working group of 31 scientists from 14 countries met
for seven days last month to study exposure to radiofrequency
electromagnetic fields from mobile phones, radar, microwaves and
radio, television and wireless signals. By classifying cancer
risks, the IARC aims to provide scientific advice to government
authorities.  The most recent research considered dated to 2004, and
exposure levels from handsets have dropped over time, said
Jonathan Samet, a University of Southern California professor
and chairman of the working group.  The age of the studies also means the participants had used
their phones for no more than 10 to 15 years, leaving open the
question of the effect of longer-term exposure. The agency said
the evidence was limited, and it may re-evaluate today’s
recommendation once more recent research is available.  Anecdotal Evidence  About a quarter of the more than 900 agents the agency has
 evaluated  were determined to be “possibly carcinogenic.” The
IARC lists substances as carcinogenic, probably carcinogenic,
possibly carcinogenic, not classifiable and probably not
carcinogenic. More than half the substances it has reviewed are
listed as not classifiable.  The categorization that mobile phones are possibly
carcinogenic to humans is appropriate, said Malcolm Sperrin,
director of medical physics and clinical engineering at the
Royal Berkshire Hospital in Reading,  England .  “The justification for such a risk indicator respects the
anecdotal evidence,” Sperrin said in comments distributed by
the Science Media Centre in  London . “The publication of more
data along with a comprehensive justification of any conclusions
is eagerly awaited, especially in relation to children.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  