-- 
Why Carney Proves Different From Other Central Bankers With Listing Loonie

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-05-31T14:05:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/why-carney-proves-different-from-other-central-bankers-with-listing-loonie.html
Canada’s currency is poised to weaken
as investors bet Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  will keep
 interest rates  low to protect the economy instead of fighting
inflation by raising interest rates.  Falling unemployment, faster growth than in the U.S. and a
shrinking deficit drove Canada’s dollar to the highest in more
than three years against the greenback on April 29 as traders
anticipated Carney would join central bankers from  Europe  to
China in boosting rates. Instead the 46-year-old former Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. managing director kept interest rates unchanged
today, downplay inflation and highlighting risks to the Canadian
economy from a strong currency.  Since then, the so-called loonie has dropped against 14 of
its 16 most-traded counterparts, falling 2.8 percent against the
Swiss franc and 4.8 percent versus  New Zealand ’s dollar. Bank of
America Merrill Lynch forecasts the currency will fall 10
percent through 2012 against the greenback. Canadian-dollar
bulls outnumber bears by the narrowest margin this year
according to Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  “All of the fundamentals that one would traditionally look
at scream out for a rate hike,” said  Eric Lascelles , chief
economist at Royal Bank of Canada Global Asset Management, which
oversees about C$250 billion ($257 billion). “The reason the
market is so cautious on the prospect of rate hikes is the
Canadian dollar is still quite strong and the Bank of Canada is
expressing a lot of concern about it.”  Most Influential  The loonie, named for the aquatic bird on the dollar coin,
is heading for its first monthly loss since January, dropping
2.4 percent to 96.79 cents versus the  U.S. dollar  at 10:03 a.m.
in New York today. It reached 94.46 cents on April 29, the
strongest since the record 90.58 cents in November 2007.  Carney joined the Bank of Canada in 2003 and became
governor in 2008. Before that, the Harvard University- and
University of Oxford-educated  economist  spent 13 years with
Goldman Sachs in  London ,  Tokyo , New York and Toronto.  The central banker, named by Time magazine as one of the
100 most influential  people  in 2010, steered Canada’s economy
out of the recession caused by the financial crisis faster than
Group of Seven peers by slashing interest rates to 0.25 percent,
the lowest ever, ensuring banks were adequately capitalized and
backstopping the residential mortgage system.  ‘Weighed Down’  The currency’s “persistent strength” poses a threat to
the economy and issues driving inflation higher may be
transitory, Carney, who met with policy makers to set rates,
said today.  Carney said in a separate speech on May 16 the U.S., which
buys 73 percent of  Canada ’s exports, and other developed
countries “will be weighed down by the legacy of the crisis,”
and will require years to repair household, bank and government
balance sheets, which may cut demand for Canadian products.  The bank declined a request by Bloomberg News for an
interview with Carney because it’s in a blackout period before
today’s rate announcement, spokeswoman Dale Alexander said.  First-quarter gross domestic product expanded at a 3.9
percent annual rate, the statistics agency said yesterday,
trailing the 4 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Economists expect Canadian output to grow by 2.9 percent
this year, compared with 2.7 percent in the U.S., according to
Bloomberg-compiled median forecasts. The  U.S. economy  grew at a
1.8 percent annual rate last quarter, less than forecast.  Majority Party  Employers added a net 58,300 positions in April, almost
triple the median forecast, and the jobless rate unexpectedly
fell to 7.6 percent, Statistics Canada said on May 6.  Finance Minister Jim Flaherty said May 25 he aims to
eliminate Canada’s deficit in the fiscal year that begins April
2014, a year earlier than previously planned. Prime Minister
Stephen Harper vowed to fulfill his pledge to cut corporate
taxes and spending after the Conservative Party won the first
majority in the Ottawa-based House of Commons in seven years
earlier this month,.  The central bank raised its policy rate to 0.5 percent last
June from a record low 0.25 percent, the first in the G7 to
raise borrowing costs since July 2008. Carney has held the rate
at 1 percent since September.  Analysts have increased estimates on the loonie versus the
dollar by 3 percent this year, according to the median of 29
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg, to 98 cents.  Good Prospects  “We attribute most of the pullback in the Canadian dollar
not to the state of the Canadian economy but with the broader
global correction that is going on and European concerns,” said
 Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co .
in  New York . “The prospects for the Canadian currency look much
better because inflation figures have picked up and the economy
is still showing a reasonable degree of momentum.”  Wells Fargo, the most-accurate currency forecaster for two
consecutive quarters, according to Bloomberg rankings, has the
strongest outlook for the Canadian dollar, seeing the loonie at
90 cents per U.S. dollar by year-end. Investors may be
underestimating the potential for rate rises, Bennenbroek said.  Temporary increases in sales taxes and energy are driving
the consumer price index above the central bank’s 1 percent to 3
percent target, Carney said in the May 16 speech. Underlying
inflation is “relatively subdued” and should return to the 2
percent target by the middle of 2012, he said.  ‘Starting to Impinge’  The core rate, which excludes eight volatile items such as
gasoline, slowed to 1.6 percent in April compared with a year
earlier, from March’s 1.7 percent advance, Statistics Canada
said on May 20.  “I don’t think inflation is a primary concern for the bank
at the moment,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist
at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in Toronto. “On
the other hand, the Canadian dollar is relatively strong. It’s
starting to impinge more on domestic businesses.”  Exports may be curbed by the weak U.S. recovery. Canadian
retail sales were little changed in March, compared with a
median forecast for a 0.9 percent rise. Wholesale sales rose 0.1
percent, trailing the 1.2 percent median forecast.  The odds of a September rate rise fell to below 20 percent
yesterday, from more than 50 percent the week before Carney’s
speech, according to data on overnight index swap rates compiled
by Bloomberg. Odds are now about 10 percent in favor of a rise
at the July meeting and about 50 percent for October, the data
show.  ‘Back-Pedaling’  The  European Central Bank  raised rates in April for the
first time in almost three years, bringing the benchmark repo
rate to 1.25 percent. The People’s Bank of  China  boosted
borrowing costs four times since mid-October as inflation
accelerates at the fastest pace in six years.  Russia , Norway, Sweden, Poland,  South Korea , Thailand,
 India , Indonesia, the Philippines, Malaysia, Taiwan, Chile and
 Brazil  have raised borrowing costs this year.  Canada’s central bankers “aren’t pulling the trigger on
that near-term rate signal,” said RBC’s Lascelles. “And so the
market is constantly back-pedaling.”  The loonie is 20 percent overvalued, the most in the Group
of 10 after the Australian dollar, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, which predicts the Canadian currency will
depreciate 5 percent against the greenback by year-end to $1.03
on its way to $1.07 by the end of 2012.  Futures traders betting the Canadian dollar will rise
against the greenback outnumbered those betting it will fall by
21,277 on May 27, the least since December.  Lascelles says Carney risks waiting too long to raise
rates.  “You do risk falling well behind the curve here if you
don’t get moving relatively quickly,” he said. “We’re
continuing to chomp our way through slack,” he said, meaning
excess capacity in the economy.  “In a year, chances are there’s not going to be a whole
lot of slack left,” Lascelles said. “If you still have a
policy rate that’s no higher than 1 percent, or at best 1.5
percent, that probably isn’t enough.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  