-- 
Wildlife Works Gets Carbon Credits for Kenyan Project

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-05-31T18:49:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/wildlife-works-gets-carbon-credits-for-kenyan-project-correct-.html
(Corrects location of project in first paragraph.)  Wildlife Works Carbon LLC , a U.S.
conservation business, received more than 1 million carbon
credits for the second phase of its Kasigau Corridor project to
protect 500,000 acres between two national parks in  Kenya .  The project was first to issue forestry credits under a
program known as Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and
Degradation, or REDD. It was validated and verified under the
Verified Carbon Standard, or VCS, and the Climate, Community and
Biodiversity Standard, Wildlife Works said in an e-mailed
statement.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA provided initial support, buying an
option for 1.25 million tons over five years and exercising the
option in the first year for 250,000 tons.  The bank plans to develop an “exemplary portfolio of high
quality REDD projects,” Christian del Valle, director of
environmental markets in commodity derivatives at BNP Paribas,
said in the statement.  Tropical forests about the size of  Greece  are disappearing
each year, according to the  United Nations . That’s equivalent to
releasing 6 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide. Trees absorb
CO2, a greenhouse gas blamed for global warming, when they grow
and release it when they die. So cutting down trees may
contribute about 20 percent of global greenhouse gasses,
according to Intergovernmental Panel on  Climate Change .  First REDD Credits  The second phase of the Kasigau Corridor project will
generate more than 1 million tons a year of credits, making it a
so-called “mega project,” according to Wildlife Works. The
project beat Infinite Earth’s Rimba Raya project, which protects
tropical forests in swamplands of Borneo,  Indonesia , to win the
first REDD credits. OAO Gazprom has rights to the credits issued
from Rimba Raya.  “We’re at a point where we’re going to see a lot more
credits issued,” said David Diaz, a Washington-based program
associate at Ecosystems Market Place, a group that publishes
information on environmental markets. “There are methodologies
in place, and projects aren’t getting bogged down in
verification.”  South Africa’s  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  received credits Feb. 8
from the first batch of Kasigau credits to offset its own
emissions and to sell on. PPR SA, a Paris-based luxury goods-
company whose brands include Puma, and British label  Alexander McQueen  bought some of those Kasigau credits to voluntarily
offset their emissions. This helps companies advance their
reputations for environmental responsibility.  Voluntary credits were offered as high as $13 on an MF
Global Ltd. pricing page on Bloomberg. Wildlife Works declined
to discuss the prices of its REDD credits, which differ from
ordinary offsets and aren’t displayed on MF Global.  Forestry credits were excluded from the 1997  Kyoto
Protocol , and a United Nations meeting in Durban,  South Africa ,
in December will consider ways of using forests as part of a new
climate treaty. The credits aren’t yet included in the European
Union’s cap and trade program. California is developing a carbon
cap and trade program that would likely accept REDD credits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  