-- 
World Aluminum Output Reaches Highest Since 1999 as Prices Climb

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-05-31T16:13:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/world-aluminum-output-reaches-highest-since-1999-as-prices-climb.html
Global aluminum production climbed to
the highest daily average in April since at least 1999 amid
rising prices on the London Metal Exchange.  Primary aluminum output rose to a daily average of 118,800
metric tons in April from 115,400 tons a day in March, according
to data, compiled by the  International Aluminium Institute .
Aluminum for delivery in three months on the LME rebounded since
November, reaching $2,803 a ton on May 3, the highest level
since August 2008, on expectations rising  oil prices  will boost
production costs.  “The price makes everybody make money so there is no
incentive to cut down on production,” said Edgardo Gelsomino, a
London-based analyst at researcher Brook Hunt. “Most smelters
are making the most of these prices and operating as much as
they can.”  Aluminum is this year’s best performer among all metals
traded on the LME, gaining 8.1 percent since the start of the
year. The metal rose 1.7 percent to $2,670 a ton by 5:04 p.m.
today. Daily aluminum output in April rebounded 9.5 percent
since its 10-month low in November,  according  to the IAI data,
which goes back to January 1999. Output has climbed 7.7 percent
since January.  “Prices are helping, but are not the main driver,”
Gelsomino said today by phone. “It’s normal to see growth. You
need to supply a growing demand,” he said pointing to a ramp-up
in  North America  and rising production in the  Middle East  and
 China .  Chinese Record  Aluminum output in China, which accounts for about 40
percent globally, climbed to a record last month as rising
prices and ample power supplies spurred producers to use more
capacity. Primary aluminum output in China climbed to a record
1.46 million tons in April, according to the National Bureau of
Statistics. Most of the aluminum production capacity that was
halted last year due to power restrictions has been restarted,
according to CRU International Ltd.  Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum producer, will
restart idled capacity at three smelters, adding 137,000 tons of
output this year, the New York-based company said in January.
Alcoa produced 3.59 million tons in 2010.  Emirates Aluminium reached its full production capacity in
January. The Qatalum aluminum smelter in Qatar, a joint venture
between Norsk Hydro ASA and Qatar Petroleum, is expected to
reach full production in June, Hydro’s Chief Executive Officer
Svein Richard Brandtzaeg said in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at  ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  