-- 
Yemen’s Capital Rocked by Explosions, Gunfire as Tribal Truce Breaks Down

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-05-31T14:01:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/yemen-s-capital-rocked-by-explosions-gunfire-as-tribal-truce-breaks-down.html
Explosions and heavy gunfire rocked
the Yemeni capital, Sana’a, amid renewed fighting between
security forces and protesters who support tribal leader Sadek
al-Ahmar.  Tribesmen loyal to al-Ahmar have taken control of the
Interior Ministry headquarters, Abdulqawi al-Qaisi, a spokesman
for the group, said in a telephone interview today. The
government denied the takeover in a statement read out on state
television. Al Ahmar’s tribe also said it captured the police
station in Hasabah, a district of Sana’a, earlier today.  Al-Ahmar said the government violated a truce agreed upon
with his Hashid tribe by attacking his house again. The
government accused his fighters of attempting to take over the
ruling party headquarters.  The conflict between security forces and al-Ahmar’s tribe
broke out last week after President Ali Abdullah Saleh declined
to sign an accord brokered by Gulf Arab countries requiring him
to give up power within 30 days. Violence has escalated across
the country since then, with at least 21 people killed in the
southern city of Taiz yesterday, one of the bloodiest days in
four months of protests. Al-Jazeera television said as many as
57 people may have died. Another seven people were killed there
today, according to activist Bushra al-Maktari.  ‘Unprovoked and Unjustified’  The U.S. Embassy in Sana’a said that the attacks by
security forces were “unprovoked and unjustified” and
commended youth protesters who have “shown both resolve and
restraint.”  Hospitals across Yemen are struggling to cope with the
increasing number of casualties and workers face difficulties
responding to life-threatening situations, the International
Committee of the Red Cross said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Hundreds of civilians have found themselves caught in the
crossfire, and dozens of people on all sides have been injured
or killed in fighting in Hasabah,” said Jean-Nicolas Marti,
head of the ICRC delegation in Yemen. In Taiz and Abyan in the
south, “the situation is getting worse as the fighting
intensifies,” he said.  In a May 25 briefing with reporters, Saleh called the
protests a rebellion against his rule. The president, whose term
ends in 2013, has said he’s willing to hold early elections, a
call the opposition Joint Meeting Parties has so far rejected.  Saleh Warning  Saleh’s government has warned that rising social unrest
threatens to strengthen al-Qaeda, a concern also expressed by
the U.S. The group has sought to use Yemen, the poorest Arab
nation, as a base from which to destabilize neighboring  Saudi
Arabia , the world’s largest exporter of crude oil, and for
attempted attacks on international targets including two U.S.
synagogues last year.  Yemeni military planes yesterday carried out strikes in the
coastal city of Zanjibar against Islamic gunmen who had occupied
government buildings the previous day, Ali Dahmas, an opposition
activist, said in a telephone interview from the city. At least
21 al-Qaeda operatives were killed in the attacks, the state-run
Saba news agency said. The ruling party said on its website
today that the remaining al-Qaeda militants withdrew from
Zanjibar toward the city of Jaar following the attacks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Taiz at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 