-- 
LyondellBasell Seeks to Sell Berre Oil Refinery in France

-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-05-31T19:24:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/lyondellbasell-hires-bank-to-find-buyer-for-french-refinery-1-.html
LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) ,
 Europe ’s biggest plastics maker, said it’s seeking a buyer for
its Berre oil refinery in southern France and will hire an
investment bank to help with the sale.  The facility has “not fulfilled economic projections”
made in 2008 when it was acquired, the Rotterdam-based company
said today in a statement. The refinery may fetch $500 million
based on the price PetroChina Co. paid in January for a
50 percent stake in refineries owned by Ineos Group Holdings
Plc, said  Hassan Ahmed , an analyst at Alembic Global Advisors.  Chief Executive Officer Jim Gallogly said in September that
he would sell the French refinery if cost cuts failed to improve
performance. The Berre refinery, purchased from Royal Dutch
Shell Plc., can process 105,000 barrels of oil a day, and
LyondellBasell’s Houston refinery has a capacity of 302,300
barrels daily, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We find it encouraging that LyondellBasell is sticking to
its knitting of considering selling assets that are
underperforming the rest of the company’s portfolio,” Ahmed
said today in a report. The New York-based analyst rates the
shares “overweight.”  LyondellBasell said it will retain ethylene and plastics
operations at the Berre site.  Refiners such as Total SA and Petroplus Holdings AG are
trying to cut capacity because of a drop in profits and
declining demand for fuels. Petroplus ended crude processing at
its 81,000 barrel-a-day Reichstett plant in northeastern  France 
in April and has begun to convert the site into a terminal.
Total idled its Flanders facility in the northwest in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  