-- 
Jacob Zuma’s Objection to Wal-Mart May Deter Investors From South Africa

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-06-01T08:45:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-31/zuma-s-wal-mart-objection-may-deter-investors-from-south-africa.html
South Africa’s failed bid to restrict
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s entry into the country may have damaged
the nation’s drive to be an investment gateway into the rest of
Africa.  South Africa’s Competition Tribunal ruled yesterday that
the world’s biggest retailer can proceed with its 16.5 billion
rand ($2.4 billion) purchase of a controlling stake in
Johannesburg-based  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM)  on condition no jobs
are cut for two years. That overruled objections from Trade
Minister Rob Davies, who said the deal would have a
“destabilizing” impact on the economy as a surge in imports
may undermine manufacturing output.  “It illustrates the same interventionist instincts that’s
evident within large parts of the government,” said  Lars Christensen , head of emerging markets at Danske Bank A/S in
Copenhagen. “It’s clumsy behavior. This was a labor protection
issue, not a competition issue. It has a damaging effect on
foreign investor sentiment.”  President  Jacob Zuma , who was swept to power as head of the
ruling  African National Congress  in 2007 with the backing of
labor unions, has pushed his government to save jobs as he
pledges to slash a 25 percent unemployment rate. At the same
time, he is struggling to attract investors, with foreign direct
investment slumping by more than a third in 2009.  Job Creation  The government is turning to antitrust authorities to drive
its job-creation goals. In April, the  Competition Commission 
recommended to the tribunal that Kansai Paint Co. be allowed to
buy Freeworld Coatings Ltd. if the  Osaka , Japan-based
manufacturer restricted job cuts for three years and built a new
plant within five.  South Africa  presented research at the Competition Tribunal
that showed a 1 percent shift of Massmart’s procurement to
imports could result in 4,000 job losses. Massmart will maintain
its current import ratio of 15 percent of total goods, Chief
Executive Officer Grant Pattison told the Tribunal’s hearings
into the transaction last month.  Davies and Economic Development Minister  Ebrahim Patel  said
in a joint statement today that they plan to study the ruling to
see whether it meets “public interest tests” and determine
whether it prevents “large-scale job losses in supplier
industries.”  Massmart Shares  Massmart shares rose 37 cents, or 0.3 percent, to 142.93
rand as of 10:41 a.m. in Johannesburg, giving the retailer a
market value of 29 billion rand. The stock has dropped 2.6
percent this year, compared with a 1 percent increase in the
benchmark FTSE/JSE  Africa  All Share Index.  Zuma is under pressure from ANC supporters and union allies
to do more to create jobs. The ANC’s support in municipal
elections last month slumped to 62 percent from 66 percent in
2009’s national vote. Africa’s biggest economy, which emerged
from recession in 2009, shed 14,000 jobs in the first quarter,
the national statistics office said on May 3.  The tribunal delayed hearings into the Wal-Mart transaction
to allow labor unions and the government to argue their case.
The  Congress of South African Trade Unions , which represents
about 2 million workers, said yesterday it plans to protest the
ruling with demonstrations, picketing and strikes.  ‘Ducked the Issue’  “They’ve ducked the issue,” the labor federation’s
spokesman, Patrick Craven, said in an interview with
Johannesburg’s eNews television channel. “They’ve turned a
blind eye to the dangers” of job losses.  The tribunal’s conditions on the transaction were the same
as those proposed by the two retailers. Wal-Mart and Massmart
must try to rehire 503 fired workers, ensure that existing labor
agreements are honored for three years and create a 100 million-
rand fund to promote production from local suppliers.  “The condition around rehiring already fired workers is
especially strict and given the number of job losses in the
economy through the crisis will likely reappear in subsequent
deals,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura Plc in
 London , said by e-mail.  South Africa can ill afford to turn away investors. Foreign
direct investment into South Africa fell to $5.7 billion in
2009, or 2 percent of gross domestic product, from $9 billion in
the previous year, according to data from the  United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development . That compares with inflows
of $12.7 billion in  Chile , $26 billion in  Brazil  and $7.6
billion in  Turkey  in the same period.  ‘Be Careful’  South Africa this year joined BRICS, a political group of
emerging-market nations including Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and
 China , to help spur investment in a continent of 1 billion
people.  The acquisition of Massmart is Bentonville, Arkansas-based
Wal-Mart’s second-biggest after the $11 billion takeover of U.K.
retailer Asda Group Plc in 1999. Pattison said on May 9 that
Massmart, which operates 300 stores in 14 African countries,
plans to expand trading space by 20 percent over the next three
years.  “This says to potential investors: be careful about the
attitude of the South African government,” Tony Twine, an
economist at Johannesburg’s Econometrix, an economics
consultancy, said in an interview. “What you read today may not
be the same as what you hear tomorrow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  