-- 
‘Major Tornado Outbreak’ in Nine Central States Adding to Insurance Losses

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-05-25T20:27:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/-major-tornado-outbreak-forecast-for-u-s-midwest-including-kansas-city.html
A “major tornado outbreak” brewing
across nine states in the central U.S. is adding to insured
losses that may already have reached $6.5 billion this season,
according to an industry group.  Tornadoes and thunderstorms have caused at least $3 billion
in insured losses and perhaps more than double that, said  Robert Hartwig , president and economist at the  Insurance Information
Institute  in  New York .  “It is going to be an earnings event to insurers,”
Hartwig said by telephone from Iowa. “These are outsized
losses.”  A tornado watch, meaning the deadly storms may develop,
was posted today from  Mississippi  to  Ohio , including the cities
of Indianapolis, St. Louis, and Memphis, according to the
 National Weather Service .  “The potential is increasing for a major tornado
outbreak,” the U.S. Storm Prediction Center said. “Widespread
wind damage and large hail are also a prominent concern through
the evening hours.”  Storm damage from flipped trucks, downed power lines and
damaged homes has been reported in Illinois, Indiana, Kansas and
 Missouri , according to the  storm center  in Norman, Oklahoma. As
of about 4 p.m. New York time, 20 tornadoes were spotted across
the Midwest and “significant damage” was reported in the town of
Sedalia, Missouri, the agency said.  Tornado warnings, meaning radar detected signs of a
twister, were posted for a time on three sides of  St. Louis .  Deadly Year  So far in 2011, tornadoes have killed 504 people, according
to the center, which is investigating a total of 1,228 twister
reports. Major outbreaks have damaged the St. Louis airport,
flattened Tuscaloosa, Alabama, and destroyed a large part of
Joplin, Missouri. In the three years prior to this year, 192
people were killed.  Hartwig said losses from thunderstorms and tornadoes have
been rising since 2008. From 1990 to 2009, tornadoes caused
$97.8 billion in insured U.S. losses, second only to hurricanes,
responsible for losses of $152.4 billion.  “This is the fourth consecutive year thunderstorm and
tornado losses are reaching record levels,” Hartwig said. He
said the industry is positioned to pay the losses.  Tornadoes swept across  Texas , Arkansas, Kansas and Oklahoma
yesterday, killing 14 people, according to the Associated Press.
Earlier this week, at least 123 people were killed by a tornado
in Joplin, Missouri, the single deadliest U.S. twister on
records going back to 1950.  American Airlines  and its American Eagle regional carrier
canceled 594 flights because of yesterday’s storms and pulled 89
planes from service for possible hail damage.  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , based at Love Field in  Dallas , said
it expected to cancel or delay an undetermined number of flights
as it checks eight aircraft for damage.  Winds of almost 70 miles (113 kilometers) per hour and hail
as large as 4.25 inches (11 centimeters) in diameter were
reported as storms moved through the Dallas area late yesterday,
the National Weather Service said. About 10,000 people were
stranded overnight at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport,
said David Magana, an airport spokesman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.ne .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  