-- 
Abbott Wins Ruling to Narrow Patent-Misconduct Standard

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-05-25T21:12:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/abbott-wins-ruling-to-narrow-patent-misconduct-standard.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  won a U.S.
appeals court ruling that will make it harder for companies to
block inventors from enforcing their intellectual property
rights because of potential misconduct in obtaining the patent.  The ruling tightens standards for “finding both intent and
materiality” in determining inequitable conduct before the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office, Chief Judge Randall Rader wrote in
an  opinion  today by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit in  Washington . Except in egregious cases, patents would
be unenforceable only if information withheld would have
affected whether the invention was approved, the court ruled.  An estimated 80 percent of patent lawsuits include
allegations of unfair dealings with the patent office and have
“plagued not only the courts but also the entire patent
system,” the Federal Circuit said. Drugmakers in particular
have accused generic-drug companies of overusing the defense.  “It’s a game-changer,” said Charles Shifley, a patent
lawyer with Banner & Witcoff in  Chicago  who had submitted
written arguments in the case on behalf of a group of lawyers.
“The last place for a scoundrel who was found to infringe and
couldn’t prove invalidity was to throw mud at the patent lawyer.
This will rein that in.”  The case today was an appeal involving an Abbott dispute
with Becton, Dickinson & Co. and  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s health-care unit
over a glucose-monitor design. An Abbott patent was deemed
unenforceable as punishment for the company giving contradictory
information to the U.S. and European patent offices on the same
invention.  Old Standard  Courts under the old standard had to decide how important
withheld information was, and how much evidence there was of
intent to deceive, with each factor weighed against the other.
If the information was key to obtaining the patent, then intent
mattered less. If there was clear evidence of deception, the
material nature of the information is less important.  The Federal Circuit said the old standard had “numerous
and unforeseen and unintended consequences” that discouraged
settlements and put more attention on the morality of the
inventor rather than the merits of the patent, Rader wrote for
the six-member majority of the 11 judges who ruled on the case.  “While honesty at the PTO is essential, low standards for
intent and materiality have inadvertently led to many unintended
consequences, among them, increased adjudication cost and
complexity, reduced likelihood of settlement, burdened courts,
strained PTO resources, increased PTO backlog, and impaired
patent quality,” Rader wrote.  ‘Out of Control’  Abbott, based in  Abbott Park ,  Illinois , had argued that
companies were being penalized for mistakes that wouldn’t have
affected whether the patent was issued. It said inequitable
conduct should be found only if there had been fraud that was
committed to obtain the patent.  It had partial support of the patent office, which said it
is overwhelmed with inventors presenting too much data for fear
they would later be found to have withheld information. Still,
the agency said, patentees could engage in gamesmanship if it
was too difficult to prove inequitable conduct.  Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, which
represents drugmakers including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and Merck & Co.,
urged the court to clarify the standard, saying use of the
inequitable conduct argument was “spiraling out of control.”  Abbott, Becton Responses  Colleen White, a spokeswoman for  Franklin Lakes , New
Jersey-based Becton Dickinson, said the decision “although
disappointing, was little impact” for the underlying case,
which Abbott lost. Becton Dickinson -- which has since sold its
glucose-monitoring business -- and Bayer HealthCare won rulings
that the aspects of the patent that were in the case were
invalid and that issue wasn’t reconsidered.  Scott Stoffel , a spokesman for Abbott said the company was
pleased by the appeals court ruling and “we agree with the
court that the misuse of this doctrine had become a plague.”  John Thorne, deputy general counsel for  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , said companies facing patent-infringement
suits had been watching the case. Verizon had advocated keeping
the old standard while giving judges the flexibility of imposing
different remedies, such as shifting the burden on the patent
owner to prove validity. Shifley said his group also supported
that position.  ‘Vulnerable Victory’  Thorne said the “but-for” test in today’s opinion is
contrary to what was suggested by government lawyers, which
increases the chances that the  Supreme Court  will look at the
issue.  “If we can point to inequitable conduct and that would
change the odds in the case, that seems like a balance that
would help companies that get sued,” Thorne said. “This is a
vulnerable victory and there’s a strong chance the high court
will take it.”  The case is Therasense Inc. v. Becton, Dickinson & Co.,
2008-1511, -1512, -1513, -1514, -1595,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for
the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is
Therasense Inc. v. Becton Dickinson & Co., 04-2123, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  