-- 
Christine Lagarde Cements IMF Support

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-05-25T09:35:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/lagarde-shores-up-imf-support-as-europeans-unity-thwarts-emerging-markets.html
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  is cementing her status as the front-runner to head the
 International Monetary Fund , arousing concerns among emerging-
market nations about a rush to judgment in filling the job.  Lagarde, who would succeed countryman Dominique Strauss- Kahn and become the first woman to lead the Washington-based
lender since its founding in 1945, now has the backing of
Europe’s main economies and, according to her government,  China .
Brazil will also privately support her rather than backing her
main rival, Mexican central bank governor Agustin Carstens, a
Brazilian government official said.  “It’s looking like it’s almost a done deal for Lagarde,”
Desmond Lachman, a former deputy director at the IMF and now a
resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute in
Washington, said by telephone. “The emerging markets can’t get
their act together and back one candidate.”  The IMF executive directors representing Brazil,  Russia ,
India, China and  South Africa  did unite yesterday to protest
publicly the presumption that the fund’s next chief once again
be a European.  “We are concerned with public statements made recently by
high-level European officials to the effect that the position of
managing director should continue to be occupied by a
European,” the directors, who serve on the IMF board, said in a
statement yesterday. “If the fund is to have credibility and
legitimacy, its managing director should be selected after broad
consultation with the membership.”  Betting Odds  Lagarde, 55, has an 88 percent chance of becoming the IMF’s
eleventh managing director and its fifth from  France , according
to Dublin-based odds-maker  Intrade.com . The 187-member IMF aims
to pick a successor to Strauss-Kahn by the end of June, little
more than a month after he resigned in the wake of being charged
with sexual assault on a New York hotel maid.  Lagarde plans to announce her candidacy today, Reuters
reported, citing diplomatic sources. She has called a news
conference for 11:45 a.m. Paris time, according to Reuters.  A lawyer who practiced in the U.S. before entering French
government in 2005, Lagarde would bring frontline experience of
the sovereign debt crisis at a time when  Greece  is struggling to
persuade investors it can avert default.  U.S. Quiet  The U.S., which has the biggest voting share in the fund
with a 16.8 percent stake, has yet to publicly tip its hand as
to whom it will back. President Barack Obama and fellow Group of
Eight leaders plan to convene tomorrow in the French resort of
Deauville.  “No doubt Mr. Obama will come under pressure in Deauville
about all of this,”  Edwin Truman , a former official at both the
U.S. Treasury Department and the  Federal Reserve  who is now a
senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in  Washington , said by telephone.  Rather than jumping on the European bandwagon, the U.S.
will probably reserve its backing for Lagarde until it becomes
clear she has the broad support of IMF membership, Truman said.  While the fund’s executive board has pledged to act
transparently and make an appointment based on merit, European
leaders have moved swiftly to support Lagarde. U.K. Chancellor
of the Exchequer George Osborne praised her leadership skills
during France’s current presidency of the Group of 20, while
Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi called her
“excellent.”  China’s Vote  China is also “favorable” on the prospect of Lagarde
leading the IMF, French government spokesman  Francois Baroin 
said in an interview yesterday with Europe1 radio. Chinese
officials haven’t publicly commented on specific candidates.  In exchange for its private support for the European
contender,  Brazil  will push for Lagarde to run the fund only
until the end of next year, when former IMF chief Strauss-Kahn’s
term would have expired, said the Brazilian official, who
requested anonymity because he isn’t authorized to speak
publicly about the issue.  Emerging markets have shown little evidence of uniting
behind a candidate, with  Mexico ,  Thailand , Russia and South
Africa supporting policy makers from their own parts of the
world. Among those being discussed publicly are Finance Minister
Tharman Shanmugaratnam of  Singapore  and Grigori Marchenko,
Kazakhstan’s central bank chief.  Arkady Dvorkovich, Russian President Dmitry Medvedev’s
economic aide, said yesterday that Brazil, Russia, India and
China -- the so-called BRIC economies -- are still consulting on
finding a candidate.  Not Optimistic  “I’m not totally pessimistic but I’m not at all
optimistic” about prospects for an emerging-market
representative to head the organization, Arvind Virmani, who
represents  India  and three other countries on the IMF board,
said in an interview yesterday in Washington. “There is no
indication which suggests that the result will be any different
this time.”  The IMF provided a record $91.7 billion in emergency loans
last year and accounts for one-third of the euro-region’s
bailout packages. Its next chief will be at the center of
debates on determining an escape route for the euro out of the
debt crisis, which still threatens to push Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal  into default and raised concern about the currency’s
longevity.  The new leader will also have to restore the fund’s image
after the Strauss-Kahn scandal and ensure its decision-making
better reflects the growing power of emerging markets such as
China, now the world’s No. 2 economy.  First Borrower  France, the first to borrow from the IMF, has supplied
three of its past five managing directors. A European has filled
the fund’s top job since its creation as part of an agreement
under which the U.S. picks the World Bank president.  The practice is now outdated, and focusing too much on the
euro crisis risks depriving the organization of a leader who can
turn it into one that mirrors a world economy increasingly led
by developing countries, said Ousmene Mandeng, head of public-
sector investment at Ashmore Group Plc in  London .  “We need to look beyond the immediate European problems
and appoint a new managing director based on broader criteria
and who can best address the tasks the IMF must respond to,”
said Mandeng, a former IMF economist. “Ideally that would mean
an emerging market candidate.”  Rejected Candidate  Europe ’s nominees for the job have not always had smooth
sailing. In 2000,  Germany ’s deputy finance minister, Caio Koch- Weser, withdrew his candidacy after he failed to secure enough
support from the lender’s shareholders, including the U.S.,
which questioned his political heft and lack of broad support
outside of Europe. Horst Koehler, who went on to become
president of Germany, won the job instead.  Carstens, who was an executive director at the IMF at the
time representing Mexico and other Latin American nations, was
“very involved” in the behind-the-scenes negotiations on Koch-
Weser’s candidacy, said Truman, who was then at the Treasury.  The Mexican central banker’s candidacy might face
difficulties with the Europeans as a result, Truman added.  Carstens is struggling for support even from Latin
Americans, with Peruvian central bank President Julio Velarde
saying he’s made no decision on the Mexican’s bid even as
Velarde favored someone from the region.  Angel Gurria ,
secretary-general of the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development and a former Mexican Finance minister, backs
Lagarde, Handelsblatt reported.  Carstens’s Campaign  In an interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday,
Carstens said it was too early to say which countries will back
his nomination. Carstens served as a deputy managing director of
the IMF from 2003 to 2006.  “I have heard expressions of sympathy, but most countries
in a responsible way are waiting to see who all the candidates
are,” Carstens, 52, said from Mexico City in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness” with Margaret Brennan.  Lagarde’s candidacy could still come unstuck. She faces
legal challenges of her own regarding her resolution of a two-
decade old dispute involving a supporter of President Nicolas Sarkozy.  France’s Cour de Justice de la Republique, which oversees
ministers’ actions in office, has until June 10 to decide
whether to investigate if Lagarde abused her powers in agreeing
in 2007 to send the case to arbitration. It resulted in a 385
million-euro ($550 million) award to businessman Bernard Tapie.
Lagarde says the allegations are without foundation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
Richard Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  