-- 
Lagarde Announces Candidacy to Succeed Strauss-Kahn to Top Position at IMF

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-05-25T16:38:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/lagarde-announces-candidacy-to-succeed-strauss-kahn-to-top-position-at-imf.html
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  declared her candidacy to head the  International
Monetary Fund , saying she should be judged on the basis of
experience rather than nationality.  “Being a European should not be a plus and it shouldn’t be
a minus,” she said at a press conference in Paris today. “I am
not arguing for my candidacy because I am a European.”  The IMF executive directors representing Brazil,  Russia ,
 India ,  China  and  South Africa  united yesterday to protest
publicly the presumption that the fund’s next chief once again
be a European. The IMF has been led by Europeans since it was
set up after World War II.  Lagarde, who would succeed countryman Dominique Strauss- Kahn and become the first woman to lead the Washington-based
lender to nations since its founding in 1945, now has the
backing of  Europe ’s main economies and, according to her
government, China. Brazil will also privately support her rather
than her main rival, Mexican central bank governor Agustin Carstens, a Brazilian government official said.  “It’s looking like it’s almost a done deal for Lagarde,”
Desmond Lachman, a former deputy director at the IMF and now a
resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute in
Washington, said by telephone. “The emerging markets can’t get
their act together and back one candidate.”  U.S. Role  The U.S., which may hold the decisive vote with a 16.8
stake in the fund, has not committed itself publicly. Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said today that Lagarde and
Carstens are “very talented” candidates.  President  Barack Obama  and fellow Group of Eight leaders
plan to convene tomorrow in the French resort of Deauville,
where the succession at the IMF is likely to be discussed.  Poland joined the list of those backing Lagarde, PAP
newswire cited Jacek Rostowski, the Polish finance minister, as
saying. “Minister Lagarde’s candidacy is very good, it’s
difficult to imagine a better one, and it has the full support
of the Polish government,” Rostowski said today, according to
PAP.  Carstens remains the Mexican government’s choice for the
IMF even after Lagarde announced her candidacy, Mexican Finance
Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said.  “They are both strong, credible candidates,” Cordero said
in Paris after a meeting with Lagarde. “We agreed that what the
IMF needs is an open, transparent, merit-based process.”  Developing Nations  Cordero said he wasn’t surprised that other developing
nations haven’t openly supported Carstens. “It’s early in the
process,” he said. “Everyone is being prudent, which is what
we need at this stage.”  Lagarde, 55, has an 88 percent chance of becoming the IMF’s
11th managing director and its fifth from  France , according to
Dublin-based odds-maker  Intrade.com . The 187-member IMF aims to
pick a successor to Strauss-Kahn by the end of June, little more
than a month after he resigned following his arrest in  New York 
on charges of attempted rape and sexual assault.  A lawyer who practiced in the U.S. before entering French
government in 2005, Lagarde would bring frontline experience of
the sovereign-debt crisis at a time when  Greece  is striving to
persuade investors it can avert default.  The Swiss franc climbed against all of its 16 most-traded
peers, reaching a record versus the euro, on concern Greece’s
debt crisis threatens the region’s economic recovery. The franc
strengthened 1 percent to 1.2287 per euro at 12:20 p.m. in New
York after reaching 1.2272.  U.S. Backing  “No doubt Mr. Obama will come under pressure in Deauville
about all of this,”  Edwin Truman , a former official at both the
U.S. Treasury Department and the  Federal Reserve  who is now a
senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in  Washington , said by telephone.  Rather than jumping on the European bandwagon, the U.S.
will probably reserve its backing for Lagarde until it becomes
clear she has the broad support of IMF membership, Truman said.  While the fund’s executive board has pledged to act
transparently and make an appointment based on merit, European
leaders have moved swiftly to support Lagarde. U.K. Chancellor
of the Exchequer George Osborne praised her leadership skills
during France’s current presidency of the Group of 20, while
Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi called her
“excellent.”  Jose Barroso , the European Commission president,
said he “fully endorsed” Lagarde’s candidacy in an e-mailed
statement today.  China is also “favorable” on the prospect of Lagarde
leading the IMF, French government spokesman  Francois Baroin 
said yesterday. Chinese officials haven’t publicly commented on
specific candidates.  Strauss-Kahn Term  In exchange for its private support for the European
contender,  Brazil  will push for Lagarde to run the fund only
until the end of next year, when Strauss-Kahn’s term would have
expired, said the Brazilian official, who requested anonymity
because he isn’t authorized to speak publicly about the issue.  Lagarde said today that if named to the job, she’ll stay in
it for a full five years, unlike Strauss-Kahn or his predecessor
Rodrigo de Rato. “To me, it’s essential that the whole mandate
be fulfilled,” she said. “If I’m elected, I promise to
complete the mandate.”  “In a large number of countries there are extremely good
people,” Charles Wyplosz, director of the International Center
for Money and Banking Studies in Geneva, said in a radio
interview with  Tom Keene  on “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  “The field should be open, and I personally am very upset
that the Europeans are trying to close it down and prevent any
serious competition,” he said.  The IMF provided a record $91.7 billion in emergency loans
last year and accounts for one-third of the euro-region’s
bailout packages. Its next chief will be at the center of
debates on determining an escape route for the euro out of the
debt crisis, which still threatens to push Greece, Ireland and
Portugal into default and raised concern about the currency’s
longevity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 