-- 
AIG Falls as U.S. Seeks Capital for ‘High-Risk Proposition’

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-05-25T20:14:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/aig-falls-as-treasury-seeks-additional-capital-for-high-risk-proposition.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
fell to the lowest since August as investors bet that losses at
the company’s largest unit will discourage buyers of the stock
in future government offerings.  AIG dropped $1.18, or 4 percent, to $28.28 at 4:01 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The U.S. Treasury
Department disposed of 200 million shares yesterday at $29 each.
AIG sold 100 million shares, raising $2.9 billion, according to
a statement from the company. The transactions leave the
government with a 77 percent stake.  Reserve shortfalls and claims from the Japan earthquake
fueled losses at AIG’s Chartis property-casualty business. Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  in March named Peter Hancock
to run the operation, replacing Kristian Moor who was denied his
full target bonus after missing financial goals.  “This is a high-risk proposition,” said Cathy Seifert, an
equity analyst at Standard & Poor’s, told  Matt Miller  on
Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack” today. “They need to
improve some of the operating fundamentals and show their new
shareholder base and their old shareholder base” that they are
on the mend. She said the shares are undervalued compared with
competitors’ stocks.  The Treasury plans subsequent sales to exit its AIG holding
as it seeks to recover a $47.5 billion investment. The process
may take 18 months to two years, according to a person familiar
with the matter, who declined to be identified because the
discussions were private. The department needs an average price
on all sales of about $28.73 to break even. The Treasury had a
92 percent stake before the offering.  AIG’s Clarification  AIG set the record straight yesterday on its pitch to
investors, telling regulators that the Government Accountability
Office and Office of the Special Inspector General for the
Troubled Asset Relief Program hadn’t reviewed its insurance
reserves. AIG called its statement a “clarification” of
information it provided to prospective stock buyers.  Chartis accounted for about half of the company’s revenue
last year and that share is poised to rise after Benmosche sold
non-U.S. life insurance operations and a consumer lender. AIG
has plunged 41 percent this year, the biggest decline in the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 Index.  “The earnings power of the company has been weakened,”
 Cliff Gallant , an analyst with KBW Inc., told Betty Liu on
Bloomberg Television’s “In The Loop.” He rates the company
“underperform.”  Bailed Out  AIG was first rescued in September 2008 by the  Federal
Reserve  after trading partners demanded payments on derivatives
contracts tied to subprime home loans. After three revisions,
the firm’s lifeline included a $60 billion Fed credit facility,
a Treasury investment of as much as $69.8 billion and up to
$52.5 billion to buy mortgage-linked assets owned or backed by
AIG. Benmosche repaid the Fed after AIG sold assets.  The government won’t conduct another offering until after a
120-day lockup, Tim Massad, the Treasury’s acting assistant
secretary for financial stability, said during a conference call
with reporters after yesterday’s announcement. There’s no
“specific timetable” for disposing of the rest of the shares,
he said.  “We’re going to sell in a way to maximize value to the
taxpayer,” said Massad. “With a company this large, that means
either public offerings or dribbling it out, eventually we might
be able to do that. We’re talking about a stake the value of
which is over $40 billion.”  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Deutsche Bank AG,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  led underwriters in yesterday’s
sale. The banks have the option to buy 45 million more shares in
connection with yesterday’s offering, with proceeds going to the
Treasury.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  