-- 
Malaysian Air Reports Loss on Jet Fuel Costs, Stronger Ringgit

-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-05-25T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/malaysian-air-reports-loss-on-jet-fuel-costs-stronger-ringgit.html
Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS) , which
will be removed from the  MSCI Malaysia (MXMY)  Index at the end of this
month, slumped to a first-quarter loss due to higher fuel costs
and a stronger ringgit.  It reported a net loss of 242.3 million ringgit ($79
million), or 7.25 sen per share, in the three months ended March
31, compared with a profit of 310.1 million ringgit, or 10.64
sen, a year earlier, the national carrier said in an exchange
filing late yesterday. Revenue fell 3.3 percent to 3.19 billion
ringgit even as it carried 10 percent more passengers over the
period from a year ago, it said.  The Subang, Selangor-based carrier has seen its earnings
fluctuate over the past two years on oil-price hedging amid
volatile global fuel prices. The global aviation industry’s fuel
bill will likely rise 19 percent to $166 billion this year and
comprise 29 percent of total costs, Malaysian Air said in a
separate statement, citing forecasts by the  International Air
Transport Association , or IATA.  “Many airlines are already experiencing this impact,”
Chief Executive Officer Tengku Azmil Zahruddin said in the
statement. “However, Malaysian Air is committed to staying
focused to our growth strategies, which include re-fleeting. We
will not change our profitability targets.”  The airline is targeting an operating profit of as much as
600 million ringgit this year, based on an assumption that  jet
fuel  would cost $96 a barrel, Tengku Azmil told reporters in
 Petaling Jaya , outside of Kuala Lumpur yesterday. Jet fuel is
now $129 a barrel, he said.  “Our philosophy is that once you set a target for the year,
you stick to it,” said Tengku Azmil. “It’s tough, but we’ll do
everything that we can to try and hit our target.”  Malaysia Air fell 0.6 percent to close at 1.58 ringgit
yesterday before the earnings announcement. The stock is the
worst performer in the MSCI Malaysia Index this year, having
dropped 24 percent. The benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index
has risen 1 percent over that period.  The carrier made a gain of 96.4 million ringgit on
derivatives hedging on the cost of fuel during the period, the
statement said.  A strengthening ringgit against major currencies impacted
overseas revenue during the quarter. Malaysian Air made a 29.6
million loss on foreign currency hedging contracts during the
three months, it said.  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , the Sepang, Selangor-based biggest discount
airline, yesterday reported a 23 percent decline in first-
quarter net income to 171.9 million ringgit, partly due to
higher fuel prices.  Quake Impact  The  airline industry  has seen dwindling passenger demand
following the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  on March 11, and
the political unrest in the Middle East and North Africa, IATA
said in a statement on May 3.  The air travel market is likely to remain depressed in the
second quarter, IATA Chief Executive Officer  Giovanni Bisignani 
said on May 3. Economic growth may support recovery in the
second half of the year, though oil remains “the big
uncertainty,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  