-- 
Boeing Can’t Move 787 Work Without Permission, Alenia Says

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-05-25T21:14:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/alenia-says-boeing-can-t-move-787-tail-work-without-permission.html
A  Boeing Co. (BA)  supplier said it was
“surprised” by a report that the planemaker plans to take over
production of the 787 Dreamliner’s tail section for future
models, and that it would have to agree to any move.  Alenia Aeronautica designed and builds the 787-8’s
horizontal stabilizer and so would have to approve any
reallocation of work for the 787-9, the company, a unit of
Italy’s  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , said today in an e-mailed statement.  Boeing Commercial Airplanes President  Jim Albaugh  told
investors yesterday that the Chicago-based planemaker plans to
build the horizontal tails for the new 787-9 at its
manufacturing hub in Seattle, the Seattle Times reported today.
Marc Birtel, a Boeing spokesman, confirmed the comments.  The issue highlights potential problems with the new
assembly process Boeing developed for the Dreamliner and plans
to use with future new aircraft. The company chose “risk-
sharing partners” around the world who are responsible for
entire sections of the plane, flying completed sections to a
Boeing factory for final assembly. That new system has
contributed to more than three years of delays for the plane.  Alenia builds two sections of the fuselage for Boeing in
 Italy , along with the carbon-fiber stabilizer, which is the wing
at the rear of the plane that prevents the nose from
experiencing a pitching motion.  Dreamliner Setbacks  As the setbacks to the Dreamliner mounted, Boeing talked
about taking some work back from suppliers including Alenia. The
planemaker in August said it was inspecting the fleet of 787s
already built and would analyze Alenia’s production processes
and workmanship after discovering flaws in the stabilizers in
June. In 2009, work was temporarily stopped and Boeing had to
patch planes after finding wrinkles in Alenia’s fuselage
sections.  Boeing in October moved its former 747 program chief, Mo Yahyavi, to Italy to help Alenia. Rome-based Finmeccanica said
in November that the companies had a recovery plan and would be
producing corrected stabilizers by early 2011.  Production of the tail section is “currently ahead of the
latest Boeing schedule plan, and we are negotiating our
proposals for the 787-9,” Alenia said in today’s statement.  Birtel declined to comment on the quality of the 787-8
stabilizers so far this year and said Boeing doesn’t discuss
negotiations with suppliers or their contract terms.  He confirmed that Boeing has begun some development work in
 Seattle  for the next variant, the 787-9, and said the company
also plans to do the initial production itself. Boeing is in
talks with Alenia as it considers the long-term plan, Birtel
said today in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  