-- 
Algeria to Have ‘Good’ Wheat Crop, Relies on Imports, FAO Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-25T16:59:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/algeria-to-have-good-wheat-crop-relies-on-imports-fao-says.html
Algeria, north  Africa ’s second-
largest wheat importer, is expected to have a “good” wheat
crop of 3.1 million metric tons this year, little changed from
2010, the  United Nations ’ Food and Agricultural Organization
said.  The country is forecast to import 7.84 million tons of
grains in 2011-12, unchanged from the previous year, the Rome-
based FAO said in a  report  dated May 23 on its website.  Algeria on average relied on imports for about 72 percent
of its domestic wheat use in the past decade, according to U.S.
Department of Agriculture  data . The Algerian government is
subsidizing seeds and helping farmers get fertilizer and credit
to reduce the country’s reliance on food imports, FAO said.  “A good wheat crop is expected this year for the third
year running,” the UN agency said. “ Algeria  still relies
heavily on wheat imports from the international market to cover
its consumption needs.”  Algeria is the largest export destination outside the
European Union for French wheat. The country purchased 2.95
million tons of wheat of all origins between Dec. 16 and Jan.
26, probably a record for a five-week period, the French crops
office said in February.  Barley production is also expected to be little changed, at
1.5 million tons, the FAO said.  Year-on-year food inflation was 3.7 percent in March, and
1.8 percent for cereals, “in spite of the country’s high import
dependency rate,” FAO said. Food inflation is on “a moderate
upward trend since the beginning of 2011,” the agency said.  In the capital Algiers, the foods with the biggest price
increases in the first quarter were fish, which rose 7.8
percent, followed by potatoes with a 6.8 percent increase, FAO
said, citing government data.  “In order to limit price increases, the government decided
to maintain the subsidy of wheat supplied to mills,” FAO said.
“Earlier this year, it slashed taxes and  import duties  on sugar
and oil, which reduced their prices by a total of 41 percent.”  Egypt  is the world’s largest wheat importer, according to
data from the International Grains Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 