-- 
Ambac Financial Says Regulator’s Offer ‘Disappointing’

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-05-25T15:18:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/ambac-says-regulator-s-offer-disappointing-will-file-exit-plan-by-june.html
Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ)  found an
offer from the Wisconsin regulator overseeing the wind-down of
its failed bond insurer “disappointing” and will file a
bankruptcy plan by June, a company lawyer said.  The regulator offered Ambac a term sheet laying out a
resolution to financial disputes between the holding company and
its operating unit, Ambac Assurance Corp., lawyer Peter Ivanick
said today. The outline was “very disappointing,” and differed
dramatically from one Ambac Financial had been discussing since
November, Ivanick told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman at
a hearing in Manhattan.  “OCI needs to improve its offer drastically and it needs
to do so quickly,” Ivanick said, referring to the Office of the
Commissioner of Insurance, the Wisconsin regulator.  Since Ambac Financial filed for Chapter 11, it has been in
dispute with constituents, including its operating unit, over
who gets $7.3 billion in net operating losses to use for tax
benefits. The  Internal Revenue Service  has challenged claims by
both companies to tax benefits.  Ambac will file a plan by June, before its July deadline to
propose a reorganization, with or without an agreement with OCI,
Ivanick said.  Ambac Assurance was the second-largest bond insurer before
the 2008 financial crisis, when mounting defaults on mortgages
swamped the company with claims. It guaranteed about
$256 billion of $1.4 trillion in insured municipal debt,
according to Bloomberg data. Ambac Financial listed liabilities
of $1.68 billion in its petition.  The holding company case is In re  Ambac Financial Group
Inc. (ABK) , 10-15973,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in  New York  at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 