-- 
AMR Cancels 20% of Daily Flights as Hailstorms Batter Aircraft

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-05-25T20:36:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/american-cancels-flights-after-hailstorm.html
American Airlines  and American Eagle
canceled 707 flights, or 20 percent of their daily schedule, and
pulled 89 planes from service after hail battered the carriers’
biggest hub and storms raked across the central U.S.  The cancellations included 326 flights into and out of
Dallas- Fort Worth  International Airport today as repairs began,
and the  AMR Corp. (AMR)  units are scrapping 188 flights for tomorrow.
Getting all the aircraft back in service may take several days,
 Tim Smith , a spokesman, said in an interview.  Winds of almost 70 miles (113 kilometers) per hour and hail
as large as 4.25 inches (11 centimeters) in diameter were
reported as storms moved through Dallas-Fort Worth last night,
according to the  National Weather Service . About 10,000 people
were stranded overnight at the Dallas-Fort Worth airport, said
David Magana, a spokesman for the facility.  Cancellations at American, the third-biggest U.S. airline,
“are overwhelmingly driven by a significant group of domestic
aircraft being out of service,” Smith said. “We’re thinking
that for some number of those aircraft, it could be two or three
days to get them repaired and flying again.”  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  said it scrubbed a dozen flights
from Dallas, where the carrier is based, and grounded eight
planes damaged by baseball-sized hail. United Continental
Holdings Inc. pulled two aircraft from service out of Dallas-
Fort Worth for damage inspections and canceled two flights.  American has completed inspections on about 10 of the
62 damaged aircraft and returned them to service. Twenty-seven
planes flown by American Eagle, a commuter carrier, have been
repaired and resumed flights, Smith said.  “It looks like a majority of the 62 are going to need some
kind of repair,” he said.  Oklahoma Crews  The airline, based in Fort Worth, Texas, flew as many as
50 workers from its Tulsa, Oklahoma, maintenance base, along
with tools and parts, to handle repairs. The damaged planes are
at airport gates, on tarmacs and even on taxiways, Smith said.  American yesterday grounded 400 flights, primarily at the
 Texas  airport as storms moved into the area.  Southwest, the nation’s largest low-fare carrier, operates
from Love Field north of downtown Dallas. Buildings were damaged
and trees blown down during the storm.  Damage to the Southwest Boeing Co. 737s was “minimal to
moderate,” said Chris Mainz, a spokesman. The first of the
repaired planes should return to flying tomorrow, and the rest
by May 28, he said.  “The only issue is finding the parts and taking the time
to replace or repair,” Mainz said.  American is letting customers traveling through Dallas-Fort
Worth today through May 27  change reservations  without paying a
fee, Smith said.  American and American Eagle have more than 750 daily
departures from  Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport . AMR
operates about 3,600 flights a day.  No damage was reported to the Dallas-Fort Worth airport
facilities, Magana said. Cabs and cars parked at the south end
of the airport were damaged by hail, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  