-- 
Amnesty Warns of Continued Violence in Ivory Coast; Blames Both Sides

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-05-25T14:49:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/amnesty-warns-of-continued-violence-in-ivory-coast-blames-both-sides.html
Amnesty International  said both sides
in Ivory Coast’s political crisis committed  war crimes  and
warned that President Alassane Ouattara’s failure to condemn
atrocities by his supporters is enabling abuses to continue.  Since capturing his rival and former President  Laurent Gbagbo  on April 11, Ouattara has pledged to heal divisions in
the West African nation and appealed for reconciliation.  “Human rights violation are still being committed against
real or perceived supporters of Laurent Gbagbo,” Gaetan Mootoo,
U.K.-based Amnesty’s Ivory Coast researcher, said in an e-mail
accompanying yesterday’s report. “Ouattara’s failure to condemn
these acts could be seen as a green light by many of his
security forces.”  Hundreds of people were killed in fighting following
disputed elections on Nov. 28 on the grounds of their ethnicity
or political affiliation, Amnesty said. The first massacres were
conducted in the commercial capital, Abidjan, largely by
supporters of Gbagbo. Later abuses were committed by Ouattara’s
forces as they swept down from the north and seized the city.  More than 100 witnesses cited a series of killings by the
Republican forces of Ouattara, according to the report. In the
western town of Duekoue, requests for help from the United
Nations mission in  Ivory Coast  remained unanswered, Amnesty
said.  “Without justice for all victims regardless of their
political affiliation or ethnic group, any appeals for
reconciliation run the risk of foundering on an unstable and
unsatisfactory compromise that could lead to more bloodshed and
vengeance in the future,” Amnesty said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 