-- 
Temasek’s Mapletree Plans Japanese Property Fund After 90% Profit Surge

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-05-25T06:34:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/mapletree-s-profits-surge-90-on-higher-commercial-rents-new-properties.html
Mapletree Investments Pte, the real
estate unit of  Singapore ’s state investment firm Temasek
Holdings Pte, said it plans to start this year a fund investing
in business space in Japan.  The fund, which will be between 25 billion yen ($305
million) and 40 billion yen in size, will invest in property at
the periphery of Tokyo’s central business district, said Terence Heng, general manager of Japan at Singapore-based Mapletree. It
will also seek assets in Osaka and Nagoya, he said.  “This is an overlooked and underserved sector,” Heng said
at a press briefing today in Singapore. “After the recent
financial crisis, people are going for stable income assets.”  Mapletree said today it posted a 90 percent increase in
full-year profit as rents improved at its Singapore commercial
properties and it got income from new real estate in  Japan  and
 Vietnam . Its assets and investments abroad will increase at a
“much faster” pace than in Singapore, Hiew Yoon Khong,
Mapletree’s chief executive officer, said at the briefing.  Net income rose to S$747 million ($597 million) in the year
ended March 31 from S$394 million the previous year, it said.
Total assets owned and managed by Mapletree rose 19 percent to
S$15.4 billion in the year.  Mapletree is “pretty confident” that assets under
management will reach $20 billion to $25 billion by the
financial year ending March 2013, a year before its target, said
Hiew.  “Some assets that we can acquire are quite sizable,” he
said.  Listing Units  Mapletree listed two of its units in the past year, with
Mapletree Industrial Trust raising S$853 million in October last
year and Mapletree Commercial Trust raising S$893.2 million in
April.  “Our business model of combining our development expertise
with capabilities in investment and capital management has
produced good results,” Hiew said.  The Japan fund will target a gross internal rate of return
of at least 12 percent, he said. Mapletree will provide at least
30 percent of the fund equity, with outside investors making up
the rest, he said. Mapletree has already bought 15 billion yen
of seed assets for the fund, it said.  Japan’s economy shrank 3.7 percent in the first quarter
after the magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami disrupted
production and prompted consumers to cut back spending.  “The situation is under control and it’s business as usual
in  Tokyo  and other places in Japan,” said Heng.  China  Fund  There are “a lot of funds” coming to the real estate
market in Japan and transactions are happening, he said. The
nuclear situation is contained within Fukushima and is expected
to be stabilized in six to nine months, he said.  Mapletree also plans to start a new China-focused fund of
at least $500 million to invest in commercial-related properties
in first-tier and second-tier cities over two to three years,
Mapletree’s group chief investment officer Chua Tiow Chye, said
at the briefing.  The company plans to start a $300 million to $500 million
Vietnam-focused fund in 2013 after buying one to two more seed
assets, Chua said.  Mapletree plans to look for opportunities in new markets
like  South Korea , while continuing its expansion in Singapore,
China, Japan, India and Vietnam, Hiew said.  There are no current plans to list the company, Hiew said,
citing Mapletree’s low gearing as one of the reasons.  “We have not tabled it as a proposal to our board or
shareholders,’” he said. “We believe we can still scale our
businesses significantly without an injection of capital.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net 
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net 
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  