-- 
Apollo, Broadway Said to Bid for Charter Hall REIT’s U.S. Property Assets

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-05-25T22:46:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/apollo-broadway-said-to-offer-1-68-billion-for-charter-hall-u-s-assets.html
Apollo Global Management LLC and
Broadway Partners offered to buy the U.S. real estate holdings
of  Charter Hall Office REIT (CQO)  for more than $1.68 billion, the
value the Sydney-based company put on the assets last year,
according to three people with knowledge of the bid.  AREA Property Partners,  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP)  and
 Highwoods Properties Inc. (HIW)  also made separate offers for some or
all of the  14 U.S. properties , which include office buildings in
 Los Angeles  and Denver, said the people, who asked not to be
named because the bidding is private. At least some of the
initial offers, received earlier this month, also carry a
premium to the assets’ book value, according to the people.  Hedge funds have pressured Charter Hall to consider an
outright sale of the U.S. portfolio after the company proposed a
joint venture. Orange Capital LLC, New York-based Luxor Capital
Group LP and Point Lobos Capital LLC of San Francisco own shares
with a combined 18.2 percent voting power and are cooperating to
maximize  shareholder value , according to Australian regulatory
filings. Long Pond Capital LP, a New York-based hedge fund, also
holds Charter Hall shares, according to a person familiar with
the investment.  Charter Hall has gained 19 percent since Jan. 12, the day
before New York-based Orange Capital disclosed its stake and
said it hired advisers to evaluate options for the company. The
REIT closed yesterday at A$3.55 ($3.74), a 10 percent discount
to its net tangible assets.  Bank of America  The average occupancy rate for the U.S. properties,
including office buildings in Boston and  Washington , is 82
percent. The company’s Australian properties had a book value of
A$1.87 billion as of Dec. 31, according to its website.  Kylie Ramsden, a spokeswoman for Charter Hall, didn’t
immediately reply to a voice mail or an e-mail seeking comment.
Representatives for the bidders declined to comment or didn’t
return phone calls seeking comment.  Charter Hall said in February that it was considering
alternatives to a joint venture and received “a number” of
approaches from parties that wanted to buy its U.S. assets.  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  is managing the sale.  Apollo, a New York-based private-equity firm, created a
group devoted to real estate investing with assets of $6.5
billion at the end of last year. The firm, run by  Leon Black , in
November bought the real estate management group of Citigroup
Inc., adding $3.6 billion in assets.  Raymond Mikulich, former co-head of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s real estate investments, joined Apollo last year
to run its North American property business. Joseph Azrack,
Apollo’s global head of real estate, has been expanding the
business since he joined the buyout firm from Citigroup in 2008.  Broadway Partners, run by Scott Lawlor, is a New York-based
property-investment firm. Its portfolio includes interests in
280 Park Avenue in  New York  and 10 Post Office Square in  Boston ,
according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  