-- 
Franken Presses Apple, Google on Mobile Application Privacy

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-05-25T21:13:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/apple-google-pressed-for-clear-application-privacy-policies.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  should
provide customers with “clear and understandable privacy
policies” for mobile applications, a U.S. lawmaker said.  Senator Al Franken, a Minnesota Democrat, wrote in a letter
to the two companies today that posting a user-friendly privacy
policy would be a “simple first step” that would provide
consumers a minimum of information about what data an app
collects and shares with third parties.  Franken held a Senate Judiciary subcommittee hearing May 10
on privacy issues around location data collected from
smartphones and other mobile devices. Executives with Apple and
Google defended their handling of user location data at the
hearing and said they do not track individual smartphone
customers.  In his letter to Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs 
and Google Chief Executive Officer Larry Page, Franken said that
neither company requires applications in their stores to have a
privacy policy, and said as a result a “significant portion and
potentially a majority” of the apps lack privacy policies.  Franken said that “at a minimum” Apple and Google should
require “location-aware” apps to have privacy policies
spelling out what location information is collected, how it is
used, and how it is shared with third parties.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to
comment beyond the company’s earlier statements to lawmakers.
Brian Richardson, a spokesman for Google, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  Focus on Applications  U.S. lawmakers are focusing on mobile privacy after
researchers found that the operating system of Apple’s iPhones
and iPads logs users’ locations. Companies including Apple and
Google, whose Android software powers smartphones from leading
handset makers, use location data from mobile devices to deliver
targeted advertising and help consumers find nearby businesses.  Lawmakers have recently highlighted the lack of regulation
for mobile applications, often made by outside software
developers, that run on smartphones and other wireless devices.
Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat who chairs the
Senate Commerce Committee, said mobile apps “have to be
regulated” at a May 19 hearing.  Revenue from applications in the U.S. and  Canada  is
expected to grow to $11.8 billion in 2015 from $3.8 billion in
2011, according to the  Yankee Group , a Boston-based technology
research firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  