-- 
Mark Haines, Long-Time Financial News Anchor at CNBC, Dies at Home at 65

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 
2011-05-25T15:06:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/mark-haines-longtime-cnbc-anchor-dies-at-65.html
Mark Haines, a fixture at financial-
news network CNBC for 22 years, has died. He was 65.  He died yesterday at his home, the network  reported ,
without citing a cause.  In an era when youth and Hollywood good looks were often
prized as the face of financial news on television, Haines was a
throwback.  He joined CNBC in 1989 and was a founding anchor of its
morning show, “Squawk Box,” in August 1995, when the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  was about 4600. He told the Chicago Tribune
in 2001 that the ensuing boom years -- in which the Dow tripled
-- were a heyday for his business, at least until stock-market
losses and widespread layoffs made business news gloomy again.  “Now I hear it from viewers who say they can’t stand it
anymore,” he told the newspaper. “They say they can’t watch
it.”  CNBC President Mark Hoffman called Haines a “building
block” of the network’s programming.  “With his searing wit, profound insight and piercing
interview style, he was a constant and trusted presence in
business news for more than 20 years,” Hoffman said in a
statement to CNBC employees. “From the dot-com bubble to the
tragic events of 9/11 to the depths of the financial crisis,
Mark was always the unflappable pro.”  He most recently worked as one of the co-anchors of the
network’s “Squawk on the Street.” CNBC is a unit of  NBC
Universal , which is controlled by Philadelphia-based  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA)   Before joining CNBC, based in Englewood Cliffs,  New Jersey ,
Haines was a news anchor for KYW-TV in Philadelphia, WABC-TV in
 New York  and WPRI-TV in Providence,  Rhode Island , according to
CNBC.  He had a law degree from the University of Pennsylvania Law
School and was a member of the New Jersey State Bar.  His survivors include his wife, Cindy, and his two
children, Matthew and Meredith, the New York Times reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  