-- 
Arthritis Drug’s $1.4 Billion Promise for German Drugmaker Hinges on Study

-- B y   E v a   V o n   S c h a p e r
-- 
2011-05-25T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/arthritis-drug-s-1-4-billion-promise-for-german-drugmaker-hinges-on-study.html
4SC AG (VSC)  said study results due by the
end of next month may help the German biotechnology company
secure a licensing deal for its experimental rheumatoid
arthritis medicine, Vidofludimus.  4SC needs a partner to fund the last and most expensive
round of human trials required for approval, Chief Executive
Officer Ulrich Dauer said in an interview. A possible deal
hinges on results from a mid-stage clinical trial that are
expected by the end of June, Dauer said. He declined to say how
many companies Martinsried, Germany-based 4SC is in talks with,
saying the number is “more than two but less than 10.”  Vidofludimus would offer an oral, lower-priced alternative
to injected therapies such as Enbrel from Pfizer Inc. and  Amgen
Inc. (AMGN)  that dominate the $13 billion rheumatoid arthritis market,
Dauer said. The drug, which is also being tested in inflammatory
bowel disease, may bring in more than 1 billion euros ($1.4
billion) in peak sales when used in the two illnesses, said
Edouard Aubery, an analyst at Equinet AG in  Frankfurt .  “This is a very promising small molecule with blockbuster
potential,” Aubery said in an interview. “This is a relatively
cheap drug compared to the biologics like Enbrel.”  Vidofludimus is a so-called small molecule, a drug
manufactured by chemical reactions in large vats, like most
pills. The medicine works through two channels: It stops certain
immune cells linked to the rheumatoid arthritis from
multiplying, and dulls some cellular communication, calming the
body’s immune reaction.  Immune Disorders  The drug also may be effective in additional immune-system
disorders such as lupus, psoriasis, multiple sclerosis and
transplant rejection, 4SC said.  4SC fell 5 cents, or 1.3 percent, to close at 3.52 euros
yesterday in Frankfurt trading. The stock has gained 26 percent
in the past year, giving the company a market value of 147.9
million euros.  While the size of the Vidofludimus deal will depend on the
study results, two transactions involving compounds to treat
rheumatoid arthritis stand out, Aubery said.  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  in 2009 bought worldwide rights to an
experimental pill being developed by Incyte Corp. to treat
inflammatory conditions, in a deal potentially worth more than
$750 million.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  bought rights to the R788 drug
from  Rigel Pharmaceuticals Inc. (RIGL)  in 2010, in an agreement valued
at as much as $1.25 billion.  Earlier Stages  Drugmakers are looking to license or acquire medicines at
earlier stages of development as they seek to offset sales lost
to generic competition, Mike Ward, editor of Scrip Intelligence,
an analysis service for the pharmaceutical industry, said in a
telephone interview.  “Pharma companies are desperate to fill the vacuum created
by products going off patent,” Ward said. “All the late-stage
assets have long been snapped up.”  Brand-name drugs with about $37 billion in sales will lose
U.S. patent protection next year, according to Aaron Gal, an
analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein in  New York .  Larger companies are avoiding high upfront payments, to
limit their losses should the drug fail in late-stage testing,
according to Siegfried Bialojan, who heads Ernst & Young’s Life
Science Center in Mannheim. Lilly paid Incyte $90 million
initially, with as much as $665 million in payments possible if
certain goals are met. AstraZeneca paid Rigel an initial $100
million, with another $1.15 billion in potential milestones.  ‘Not a Marriage’  “They are looking for alliances that are a commitment, not
a marriage,” Bialojan said.  Biotechnology companies are in a strong negotiating
position if they can provide good clinical data, Hubert Birner,
a partner with TVM Capital GmbH, a venture capital firm based in
Munich, said in an interview.  “The pharma industry is very hungry for deals that can
show the necessary clinical safety and efficacy,” Birner said.  Dauer co-founded 4SC in 1997 as a spinoff of his work at
the University of Wuerzburg, where he was a chemist. The company
uses computers to model the efficacy of experimental compounds
for use in cancer and autoimmune diseases.  Vidofludimus is similar to Sanofi’s Arava, an older
rheumatoid arthritis treatment that is expected to earn about
150 million euros this year. 4SC used computers to find a
molecule lacking Arava’s severe side-effects, Dauer said.  Swelling Joints  Rheumatoid arthritis causes swelling and stiffness in the
joints, as the body’s immune system mistakenly begins to attack
the joint tissue. Doctors don’t know what causes the ailment,
according to the U.S. National Institutes of Health in Bethesda,
 Maryland . About 1.3 million Americans had the condition in 2005,
according to the Atlanta-based  Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention , another government agency.  According to Datamonitor, a London-based research firm, the
three best-selling rheumatoid arthritis drugs are Enbrel from
New York-based Pfizer and  Thousand Oaks , California-based Amgen;
Humira, from  Abbott Park , Illinois-based  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ;
and Remicade, sold by  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based Johnson &
Johnson and Merck & Co. of  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey .  The shots are standard care for the 80 percent of patients
who don’t respond to treatment with methotrexate, a generic drug
that can block cell growth in people with certain cancers and
immune disorders. All are based on proteins or monoclonal
antibodies, compounds produced to closely resemble molecules
found in the human immune system. Companies use genetically
engineered cells to make the treatments.  4SC is planning to position Vidofludimus as an alternative
to the expensive injected therapies, Dauer said, pricing it
between methotrexate and the biologics. These treatments cost as
much as $20,000 a year and leave patients susceptible to
infections. Methotrextate costs about $1,000 annually.  “This is a gigantic indication, it can be done if the drug
is positioned well,” Dauer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva Von Schaper in Munich Bureau at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  