-- 
Martha Stewart Living Up Most Since 2009, Hires Blackstone

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-25T21:32:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/martha-stewart-living-soars-after-retaining-blackstone-to-review-proposals.html
Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia (MSO)  Inc.,
owner of the namesake magazine and TV show, rose the most since
2009 after hiring  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  to help review proposals
from parties seeking to partner or invest in the company.  The shares jumped 90 cents, or 24 percent, to $4.67 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
one-day gain since April 9, 2009. The stock has gained 5.7
percent this year.  Martha Stewart Living has been approached by companies that
have expressed interest in partnering, investing or exploring
other opportunities, according to a statement today. The company
would consider an outright sale under the right conditions,
according to a person familiar with the matter who declined to
be identified because the discussions are private.  Martha
Stewart  declined to comment beyond the statement.  Principal Executive Officer Charles Koppelman said the
company’s stock price is undervalued.  “The purpose of today’s announcements is to unlock the
value of the brand, and our enterprise value needs to match
that,” Koppelman said in an interview.  Martha Stewart Living is trying to revive sales growth
after three years of falling revenue. The New York-based company
ended a partnership with Sears Holdings Corp.’s Kmart in January
2010. Sales from “Martha Stewart Everyday” products at Kmart
made up almost half of the company’s merchandising revenue and
10 percent of total revenue in 2008, according to an annual
filing.  “It took us a little time to get up and running with our
new partners,” said Koppelman. Current partners include Home
Depot Inc., Macy’s Inc., PetSmart Inc. and Michaels Stores Inc.  Founder Martha Stewart, the company’s largest shareholder,
said she supports hiring Blackstone to “take our business and
iconic brand to the next level,” according to the statement.
Stewart will rejoin the board in the third quarter, according to
the statement.  “I want to have a formal say,” Stewart said in a
telephone interview. “Leaving the board was not my choice.”  Once chairman and chief executive officer of the company,
Stewart had to relinquish both titles and eventually leave the
board after she was convicted of obstruction of justice in 2004.
Stewart served five months in prison and about six months of
house arrest.  Martha Stewart Living also said Lisa Gersh, former head of
Oxygen Media, will join the company as president and chief
operating officer, effective June 6. Gersh will become CEO
within 12 to 20 months, according to the release.  "There are a million end games for every company," said
Gersh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  