-- 
Asian Stocks Fall as Europe Debt Crisis, U.S. Economy Spur Profit Concerns

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 
2011-05-25T09:40:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/asia-stocks-rise-on-commodities.html
Asian stocks fell, with the region’s
benchmark index sinking for the third day in four, as lower
profit forecasts fueled concern that a slowing global economic
recovery will crimp earnings.  Tokyo  Electron Ltd., Japan’s biggest manufacturer of chip-
making equipment, declined 2.1 percent in Tokyo, leading
chipmakers lower after Applied Materials Inc., the world’s
largest producer of chipmaking equipment, forecast third-quarter
profit and sales that missed analyst estimates.  Austal Ltd. (ASB) , an
Australian shipbuilder, plunged 9.7 percent in Sydney after
lowering its full-year earnings forecast.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  led
Japanese carmakers higher after a report predicted auto
production will recover from the country’s March earthquake.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.6 percent to 130.99 as
of 6:38 p.m. in Tokyo, reversing an earlier gain of as much as
0.4 percent. More than two stocks fell for each that gained on
the gauge, which last week slid for a third straight week as
 Greece ’s debt crisis intensified, Japan’s economy contracted,
and disappointing U.S. economic data fueled concern about the
global recovery.  “Issues like the softening growth rate of business
activity and Europe’s debt problems have prompted investors to
look for reasons to sell,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages
about $350 million at White Funds Management Pty. in Sydney.
“Long-term investors are sitting on the sidelines and short-
term traders are selling into the market. It’s opening up some
good value in many stocks, and I suspect we’ll see buying start
to emerge.”  Regional Benchmarks  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 1 percent, pulled down
by Australian lenders after Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia
Pty cut ratings on  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s
biggest by market value, and Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average declined 0.6 percent and
South Korea’s Kospi Index slid 1.3 percent.  China ’s Shanghai
Composite index retreated 0.9 percent.  The Hang Seng Index climbed 0.1 percent in Hong Kong, where
Glencore International Plc, the world’s biggest listed trader of
commodities by capitalization, fell 2.9 percent in its trading
debut. The Hang Seng pared declines after  David Riley , Fitch
Ratings Ltd.’s group managing director of sovereign ratings,
told Boersen-Zeitung that it has no plans to lower  Italy ’s
credit rating or the outlook for the country.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.1
percent today. In  New York , the index fell 0.1 percent to
1,316.28 yesterday as a drop in stocks most-tied to economic
growth offset a government report showing that sales of new
homes rose to the highest level this year.  A report last week showed U.S. industrial output stalled in
April. Output was unchanged after a 0.7 percent gain in March,
figures from the  Federal Reserve  showed. This week, a Chinese
manufacturing gauge fell to its lowest level in 10 months.
China’s preliminary manufacturing index, known as the Flash PMI,
was at 51.1 in May, compared with the final reading of 51.8 in
April, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said on May 23.  Chipmakers Decline  Financial and technology shares were the biggest drag today
among the 10 industry groups tracked by the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index.  Tokyo Electron declined 2.1 percent to 4,410 yen. Elpida
Memory Inc., the world’s third-largest maker of computer memory,
slumped 3.8 percent to 1,048 yen. Dainippon Screen Manufacturing
Co., a chip equipment maker, dropped 2.8 percent to 654 yen in
Tokyo. Samsung Electronics Co. fell 1 percent to 856,000 won in
 Seoul .  Santa Clara, California-based Applied Materials yesterday
said profit excluding certain costs in the current period will
be 31 cents to 37 cents a share, and sales will drop 3 percent
to 10 percent from the prior quarter. Analysts in a Bloomberg
survey on average projected profit of 38 cents and revenue of
$2.83 billion.  Customers are still assessing whether disruptions to the
supply of electronic parts created by the March earthquake and
tsunami in Japan will curb demand for semiconductors. That’s
leading chipmakers to hold off on or cancel equipment orders,
said Patrick Ho, an analyst for Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  Real Economy  “The real economy is starting to slow down and that’s
going to weigh down on corporate earnings,” said Lee King Fuei,
a Singapore-based  fund manager  at Schroders Plc, which oversaw
$325 billion as of March 31.  Austal plunged 9.7 percent to A$2.61 in Sydney after
lowering its full-year profit forecast, citing the
“unprecedented strength” of the Australian dollar alongside
“softness” in  Europe ’s ferry market.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index saw its first negative earnings
growth this quarter since six quarters ago, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Companies such as Nintendo Co. and Nidec
Corp. reported earnings that missed estimates while Sony Corp.
said it expects fallout from the March 11 temblor in Japan to
dent operating profit this fiscal year.  Glencore Debut  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 4.3 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 4.7 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 0.2 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.3 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.3 times for the S&P 500
and 11 times for the Stoxx 600.  Glencore dropped 2.5 percent to HK$64.90 in  Hong Kong  in
the world’s biggest initial public offering this year. Glencore,
based in Baar,  Switzerland , began trading in  London  last week.
The decline in share prices today reflects declines in commodity
prices, Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said.  In Sydney, Commonwealth Bank fell 1.8 percent to A$50.01
and ANZ lost 0.5 percent to A$21.70 after having their ratings
cut to “hold” from “buy” by analysts at Goldman Sachs, which
cited slower loan growth.  Automakers were among stocks that advanced today, leading a
gauge of consumer discretionary stocks higher on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index.  Auto Production  Toyota rose 2.2 percent to 3,315 yen, even as it denied
media reports in Japan that its auto production will recover to
90 percent in June, and repeated that output will be restored to
70 percent next month.  Japanese public broadcaster NHK and the Kyodo news agency
reported that Toyota would restore 90 percent of production in
 Japan  in June. The Toyota-city based automaker is running at
about 50 percent of normal production levels after the March 11
earthquake disrupted output.  Honda Motor Co. gained 1.3 percent to 3,065 yen. Nissan
Motor Co. rose 1.3 percent to 791 yen. Deutsche Bank AG raised
its profit estimates for both Honda and Nissan, citing higher
car sales.  David Riley of Fitch told Boersen-Zeitung, a German
newspaper, that the agency doesn’t expect Italy to pose a
significant risk for the rest of the euro region as long as
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s government adheres to its
2011 deficit-reduction plans, which have been on target so far.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net .
undefined 