-- 
Asia Currencies Slide, Led by Won, as Europe Debt Crisis Curbs Risk Taking

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-05-25T08:39:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/asia-currencies-slide-led-by-won-as-europe-debt-crisis-curbs-risk-taking.html
Asian currencies weakened, led by
 South Korea ’s won, as concern  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
will worsen deterred risk taking, sapping demand for emerging-
market assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the yen, and the MSCI
Asia-Pacific Index of shares sank to their lowest levels since
March.  Belgium  had the outlook on its debt rating lowered to
negative by Fitch Ratings this week, while Greece’s rating was
cut three levels on May 20. Global funds cut their holdings of
Korean shares for a 10th day, the longest run of net sales in two
years, and sold more Taiwanese equities than they bought.  The won dropped 0.7 percent to close at 1,101.45 per dollar
in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. India’s rupee,
Malaysia’s ringgit and Indonesia’s rupiah each slid 0.5 percent,
trading at 45.42, 3.0634 and 8,607, respectively, as of 4:27 p.m.
in Singapore. The Singapore dollar slid 0.4 percent to S$1.2505.  “The overarching factor is still the Europe problem from
the sovereign debt issues,” said Joanna Tan, a Singapore-based
regional economist at Forecast Singapore Pte. “Risk-off
sentiment is picking up again.”  Fitch followed  Standard & Poor’s  in saying that political
deadlock is complicating efforts to reduce Belgium’s debt. Fitch
may cut Belgium’s grade, the second-highest rating, should the
country fail to adhere to its budget-deficit targets, according
to a statement on May 23.  China Growth Concern  The won touched 1,101.68 per dollar, its weakest level
since March, after overseas investors dumped $3.3 billion of
Korean stocks in the last nine trading days. The Kospi share
index fell 1.3 percent to a two-month low.  “The  Greece  issue is a burden to Korean financial
markets,” said Seo Chul Soo, a bond trader at Daewoo Securities
Co. in Seoul. “The stock market is down and the won is
depreciating.”  Taiwan ’s dollar retreated toward a one-month low after
signs of an economic slowdown in China dimmed the outlook for
spending in the island’s biggest export market. The local dollar
slid 0.3 percent to NT$29.009 against its U.S. counterpart after
touching 29.020 yesterday, the weakest level since April 21.  A Chinese manufacturing index compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics fell to 51.1 in May, the lowest level in 10
months, according to data released this week. China, including
 Hong Kong , took around 40 percent of the island’s exports in
April, according to Taiwanese government data.  “Foreigners have been selling a lot of Taiwan stocks,”
said  Henry Lin , a Taipei-based foreign-exchange trader at Taiwan
Shin Kong Commercial Bank. “The worry that a  China  slowdown
will affect Taiwan is definitely there.”  Thai Election  Thailand’s baht dropped to a two-month low after overseas
investors reduced holdings of the nation’s shares ahead of
elections on July 3. The two most recent votes were marred by
protests and legal rulings against elected politicians. The baht
fell 0.2 percent to 30.46 per dollar and touched 30.49 earlier,
the weakest level since March 16.  “Looking at the history, we have to be a bit cautious
about the Thai markets ahead of the election,” said Minori Uchida, senior analyst at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in
 Tokyo . “I don’t expect big fund outflows under the current
situation, but some investors may adjust positions to get ready
for some risk scenario.”  Elsewhere, the  Philippine peso  declined 0.4 percent to
43.575 per dollar, while China’s yuan strengthened 0.06 percent
to 6.4934.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  