-- 
Commodities Rally Sends Crude Oil Above $101, Helping U.S. Stocks Rebound

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-05-25T20:26:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/asia-stocks-drop-on-earnings-outlook.html
Commodities climbed for a second day,
and gains in energy and metal producers helped the U.S. equity
market snap a three-day slump, amid speculation recent price
declines were excessive as demand improves. Five-year Treasuries
rose as a $35 billion sale drew the strongest demand since 1994.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of commodities rallied 1.7
percent at 4:18 p.m. in New York. The S&P 500 increased 0.3
percent to 1,320.47, rebounding from a one-month low. The  DAX
Index (DAX)  of equities reversed losses in  Frankfurt  as  Fitch Ratings 
said it’s not planning any downgrades of German banks because of
 Greece ’s debt crisis. Five-year Treasury yields slipped two
basis point to 1.76 percent. The Dollar Index was little changed
after climbing as much as 0.5 percent.  Copper helped lead the advance in commodities after
Deutsche Bank AG joined JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in predicting prices are likely to rebound. Oil
futures recovered from earlier losses to climb above $101 a
barrel as U.S. government data showed fuel demand increased.
Exxon Mobil Corp. paced gains in all 41 energy stocks in the S&P
500, and 26 of 30 raw-material producers rose.  “Commodities are a canary in a  coal mine  for the global
growth story,” said  Stephen Wood , the New York-based chief
market strategist for Russell Investments, which manages about
$161 billion. “Ultimately, if oil goes too high, it may have
high significant inflationary and growth pressures. For the
short-term, it’s the growth and demand story that investors are
reacting to. The economy will be fine and I’m still expecting a
good earnings environment.”  Broad Commodity Rally  Silver, sugar and cocoa climbed at least 2.7 percent to
lead an advance in all 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI.
The gauge had retreated as much as 11.5 percent since April 8,
the day it rallied to the highest level since August 2008.
Producers of energy and raw materials have led the  S&P 500 ’s 3.2
percent slump from an almost three-year high on April 29.  Copper jumped 2.3 percent to $4.107 a pound in New York
today. The metal will average $11,500 a metric ton in 2012,
Deutsche Bank said in a report today. That compares with about
$9,483 so far this year on the London Metal Exchange, data
compiled by Bloomberg shows, implying a 21 percent advance.
Goldman Sachs yesterday suggested buying copper and zinc,
reversing last month’s call to sell commodities.  Oil for July delivery advanced 1.7 percent to $101.32 a
barrel after slipping 1.4 percent earlier. U.S. data showed that
inventories of distillate fuel, a category that includes diesel
and heating oil, tumbled by 2.04 million barrels to a more than
two-year low of 141.1 million as consumption increased.  Early Losses Reversed  The S&P 500 erased an early 0.3 percent slide that was
triggered by a bigger-than-forecast 3.6 percent drop in durable-
goods orders and earnings that missed estimates at companies
form Costco Wholesale Corp. to Polo  Ralph Lauren  Corp. Costco,
the largest U.S. warehouse club, lost 1.3 percent. Polo Ralph
Lauren, retailer of its namesake brand clothing, slid 11 percent
for its worst drop since October 2008.  American International Group Inc. declined 4 percent after
the insurer and the government sold shares in the company. The
 U.S. Treasury  sold 200 million shares at $29 each, compared with
yesterday’s closing price of $29.46. The government, which
retains a majority stake, needs to sell shares at an average of
about $28.73 to recover a $47.5 billion investment. AIG disposed
of 100 million shares, raising $2.9 billion, according to a
statement from the company.  ‘Remarkable Turnaround’  “When the government intervened, it only did this in the
first place to prevent a collapse of our financial system and
most people thought all of the money we spent on preventing the
collapse of AIG would never be seen again,” said Timothy Massad, the acting assistant U.S. Treasury secretary for
financial stability, in an interview on Bloomberg Television.
“The fact that two-and-a-half years later we’ve already
recovered a lot of it, and we’re on the path to recovering more,
is really a remarkable turnaround.”  The dollar weakened versus eight of 16 major currencies,
depreciating the most versus the Swiss franc and British pound.
The franc appreciated versus all 16 peers and reached a record
versus the euro.  The 10-year Treasury note yield swung between gains and
losses after the five-year securities sold today drew a yield of
1.813 percent, compared with the average forecast of 1.830
percent in a survey of eight of the 20 primary dealers obliged
to participate in U.S. debt offerings. The bid-to-cover ratio, a
gauge of demand, was 3.20, compared with 2.77 last month and an
average of 2.82 at the past 10 sales.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index , which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 0.4 basis point to a
mid-price of 91 basis points.  European Stocks  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rallied 0.7 percent for its
biggest gain in two weeks. EON AG and RWE AG,  Germany ’s biggest
utilities, rose at least 1.9 percent as the Financial Times
Deutschland reported the government may scrap a tax on nuclear
reactors.  The DAX, Germany’s benchmark index, climbed 0.3 percent
after retreating as much as 1.1 percent. Commerzbank AG rallied
6.1 percent as all German lenders were said to be likely to pass
the second round of European Union stress tests, said three
people familiar with matter who declined to be identified
because the information isn’t public.  Fitch said today that German banks’ potential losses from
Greece are manageable and it does not envision any downgrades of
the nation’s lenders. Fitch said it sees large potential
contagion risks if there were any restructuring of Greek
government debt. Most German banks have only limited risks from
Portugal and Ireland, Fitch added.  Viet Nam, China Retreat  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 0.6 percent.
 Vietnam ’s VN Index tumbled 4 percent, falling for a 10th day to
the lowest in more than two years, after government data showed
inflation accelerated to a 29-month high in May even as policy
makers raised  interest rates  for the sixth time this year.  South
Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slid 1.3 percent, led by chemical and
technology companies. The Shanghai Composite Index sank 0.9
percent, extending its retreat from this year’s peak to 10
percent.  Jim Chanos , the hedge-fund manager known for predicting
Enron Corp.’s 2001 collapse, says he’d short sell Chinese
companies listed in the U.S. if it were feasible to borrow
shares to open the bearish positions.  The Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index has plunged 41
percent since Nov. 8 amid speculation financial statements from
companies such as China MediaExpress Holdings Inc. can’t be
trusted. The concern intensified this week after Longtop
Financial Technologies Ltd., whose initial public offering was
underwritten by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG,
said its auditor quit because of false records.  “Almost all of them have odd looking financial
statements,” Chanos, the president and founder of  New York- 
based Kynikos Associates LP, said on Bloomberg Television
yesterday. “We wish we could borrow almost all of them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  