-- 
Mattek-Sands to Pass Venus Williams in Rankings After French Open Victory

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-25T22:20:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/mattek-sands-to-pass-venus-williams-in-rankings-after-french-open-victory.html
Bethanie Mattek-Sands used to be more
famous for her colorful outfits than her tennis. That’s about to
change, now that she’s reached the third round of the French
Open to jump past the injured  Venus Williams  in the world
rankings.  Mattek-Sands, at No. 34 the top-ranked U.S. woman playing
in Paris this year, beat fellow American Varvara Lepchenko 6-3,
2-6, 6-3 yesterday to advance deeper into the clay-court Grand
Slam tournament’s singles draw than in four previous
appearances.  The victory means Mattek-Sands will move ahead of five-time
Wimbledon champion Williams, now ranked No. 30, in the Women’s
Tennis Association rankings to be released after the French
Open. Williams, who reached the fourth round of the Paris
tournament last year, will drop to 1,560 rankings points.
Mattek-Sands’s win yesterday moved her up to 1,588 points.  Serena Williams , Venus Williams’s sister and a 13-time
Grand Slam champion, hasn’t played since winning Wimbledon in
July because of a foot injury and a blood clot, and will drop
from No. 17 to about No. 25 in the rankings after the  French
Open .  “Being the No. 1 American playing Roland Garros, it’s
tough,” Mattek-Sands, 26, said in an interview yesterday.
“Because when you think of American tennis, you think No. 1 in
the world, or top 10, and I am not there yet. I am working on
it, that’s my goal. But being a good player for U.S. tennis,
that’s big shoes to fill.”  Mardy Fish, the top American man in Paris as the 10th seed,
plays  Robin Haase  of the Netherlands in second-round action
today. Five-time champion Rafael Nadal faces Pablo Andujar in an
all-Spanish match, while  Andy Murray  of Britain meets Simone Bolelli of Italy.  Sharapova, Clijsters  Maria Sharapova , trying to win her first French Open and
complete the career Grand Slam, plays Caroline Garcia of  France .
 U.S. Open  and Australian Open champion Kim Clijsters of  Belgium 
faces Arantxa Rus of the Netherlands.  Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  ran his season record to 39-0
yesterday when his second-round opponent, Victor Hanescu of
Romania, quit in the third set with an injury. Djokovic, who led
6-4, 6-1, 2-3 when the match ended, next plays No. 25 Juan Martin Del Potro of  Argentina , the 2009 U.S. Open champion.  Roger Federer, winner of a men’s record 16 Grand Slam
singles titles and the third seed this year, beat Maxime
Teixeira of France 6-3, 6-0, 6-2.  Top-seeded Caroline Wozniacki of Denmark beat Aleksandra Wozniak of Canada 6-3, 7-6 (8-6) to reach the third round, and
defending women’s champion Francesca Schiavone of  Italy  defeated
Vesna Delonts of  Russia  6-1, 6-2.  Zvonareva Defeats Lisicki  No. 3 Vera Zvonareva of Russia, who reached the final at
Wimbledon and the U.S. Open last year, was down 5-2 in the third
set to Sabine Lisicki of  Germany  before winning the final five
games of the match for a 4-6, 7-5, 7-5 victory. Lisicki, who
appeared to have leg cramps in the last few games, was taken off
the court on a stretcher.  The Williams sisters have dominated women’s tennis for the
past decade, winning 20 Grand Slam singles titles between them.  “They’re great players and I hope they come back, they’re
really good for the tennis tour,” Mattek-Sands said. “They’ve
been good for the game, and for women’s sports.”  Mattek-Sands spent most of her news conference yesterday
talking about her fashion style and her tattoos. She beat
Lepchenko wearing knee-high black socks and a pink T-shirt, and
had black stripes under her eyes.  ‘I’m Pretty Mellow’  “What’s funny, in the world of entertainment I’m pretty
mellow actually,” she told reporters. “There are people doing
a lot more crazy stuff. It’s just that tennis is so conservative
that I wear some high socks and people are like, ‘Wow, that’s so
different.’ I don’t mind it. For me it’s fun. That’s how I am
off the court. I just like to be different.”  Getting to where she is now, in her 12th year on the
women’s tour, has been tough, Mattek-Sands said in the
interview. She started playing tennis at age 5.  “The upcoming Americans don’t realize how much of a grind
it is, even to get your ranking up,” she said. “You have to
play a lot of tournaments.”  Up next is  Jelena Jankovic  of Serbia, a three-time
semifinalist in Paris. Mattek-Sands leads Jankovic 2-1 in career
meetings, losing the only match they have played on clay.  “I’m going to play aggressive,” Mattek-Sands said. “I’ve
got to keep in mind she moves very well. She gets to a lot of
balls. I might have to be a little bit more patient. I’m still
going to play aggressive, attack second serves like I’ve done
pretty much every match, and try to get to the net.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 