-- 
Aussie Rallies From Almost Six-Week Low as Business Investment Increases

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-05-26T16:12:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/aussie-rebounds-from-3-month-low-versus-kiwi-before-capital-spending-data.html
Australia ’s dollar rose from almost a
six-week low against the greenback as a government report showed
business investment increased.  New Zealand’s currency rallied the most in more than two
weeks on an intraday basis after interest.co.nz reported that
 China  Investment Corp. plans to invest in the South Pacific
nation’s assets. The kiwi got a boost as Finance Minister Bill English said the country aimed to double its exports to China
within four years.  “Today’s stronger-than-expected capex data is very much
the reason for the higher Aussie dollar,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a foreign-exchange strategist in Singapore at Westpac
Banking Corp., Australia’s second-largest lender. “The outlook
is very bullish, and I suspect that’s why the Aussie dollar
continues to push higher. It’s a bit of a risk-on day.”  Australia’s dollar rose 0.6 percent to $1.0594 at 12:06
p.m. in  New York , from $1.0532 yesterday, when it fell to
$1.0441, the lowest level since April 13. New Zealand’s dollar
advanced as much as 1.6 percent to 81.18 U.S. cents in the
biggest intraday gain since May 6 before trading at 80.81,
compared with 79.87 yesterday.  Australian capital spending climbed 3.4 percent in the
three months ended March 31, the government statistics agency
said in Sydney. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
of economists was for a 2.7 percent increase.  China Investment  The kiwi strengthened against most of its major
counterparts as interest.co.nz reported that China’s sovereign
investor may have set aside 1.5 percent of its foreign-exchange
reserves, the equivalent of NZ$6 billion ($4.8 billion), to
invest in  New Zealand  companies, government bonds and other
assets.  China Investment Corp. may have allocated 2 percent of its
reserves for Australian assets, the Auckland-based website
reported, citing a person it didn’t name.  English said in  Hong Kong  that he “won’t be surprised” if
the Chinese company invests in his country’s bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  