-- 
Australian Home Loan Delinquencies Jump to Record on Rates, Fitch Says

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-05-25T22:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/australian-home-loan-delinquencies-jump-to-record-on-rates-fitch-says.html
Australian home loan delinquencies
jumped to the highest on record in the first quarter, driven by
Christmas spending, a November interest rate increase, and
recent natural disasters,  Fitch Ratings  said.  Mortgages more than 30 days overdue rose to 1.79 percent of
the nation’s residential mortgage backed securities in the
quarter ended March 31, from 1.37 percent in the previous three
months, according to the London-based ratings firm. The number
of “low-doc” loans more than 30 days late climbed to a record
6.74 percent from 5.7 percent, according to the report.  “A rise in arrears was expected given the usual seasonal
negative impact,” James Zanesi, associate director for
structured finance at Fitch, wrote in the statement. “Fitch,
however, did not expect arrears to increase to this extent.”  Rising interest rates are keeping homebuyers on the
sidelines even as the number of properties listed for sale
continues to climb, sending  home prices  lower in the first
quarter by the most since 2008. Moody’s Investors Service cut
its ratings on  Australia ’s four biggest banks last week.  Queensland state had almost two months of flooding that
closed mines and damaged crops in the state’s southeast and
inundated about 40,000 properties in the capital Brisbane.
Cyclone Yasi, which tore through the state’s northeast coast
packing winds stronger than  Hurricane Katrina ; Cyclone Dianne in
 Western Australia , and Cyclone Carlos in the Northern Territory
have all ravaged the country this year as a La Nina weather
event dumped record amounts of rain in parts of Australia.  Borrowing Slows  Borrowing for mortgages grew by 6.6 percent in March from
the year-earlier period, the least since the central bank
figures were first reported. Fitch has warned that it could cut
the lenders’ ratings if they lower standards to boost sales.  While the number of loans in arrears is expected to fall
slightly in the second and third quarters as the impact of
seasonal spending and the floods dissipates, this could be
offset by further interest-rate increases and the recent rise in
the cost of living, Zanesi said.  Traders bet there’s a 60 percent chance the central bank
will resume raising  interest rates  by year end, boosting the
benchmark rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 5 percent
after pausing for six months, bank bill futures show.  Still, overall, the Australian RMBS market remains stable
and delinquency levels are low compared with other countries,
Zanesi said. A  stress test  conducted by the company last year
found that Australian banks and insurers can weather a 30
percent drop in home prices and a mortgage default rate of as
much as 6 percent.  Commonwealth Bank, Westpac  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  Chief Executive Officer
Ralph Norris told analysts this month that a post-Christmas lift
in arrear rates is “typical across all institutions.” He said
the bank expects the “seasonality factor to come out of the
numbers” in the second quarter.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  this month attributed an uptick in
arrears to lending between 2007 and 2009.  As delinquencies “reach a peak in that two-to-three-year
period after drawdown, what you’re seeing is that pool of large
loans coming through and reaching that period of maturity and
lifting the overall average,” Philip Coffey, Westpac’s chief
financial officer, said on a call with analysts on May 3.  Mortgage payments that were between 30 and 59 days late
climbed to 0.79 percent in the first three months of 2011 from
0.58 the previous quarter as borrowers affected by flooding
earlier this year fell behind on payments while awaiting
financial help, Fitch said.  “More susceptible borrowers remain under pressure to make
mortgage payments,” Zanesi said. “Moreover, it is likely that
the Queensland floods have reduced the serviceability of self-
employed borrowers more than salaried households.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney on 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  