-- 
Australia to Grow Fastest of G-10 Currency Nations, OECD Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-05-25T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/australia-to-grow-fastest-of-g-10-currency-nations-oecd-says.html
Australia ’s economy will expand next
year at the fastest pace among nations in the Group of 10 bloc
of currencies, the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development  said as it raised the country’s growth forecast.  “High terms-of-trade continue to favor the mining
sector,” the OECD said in a  report  today, referring to a
measure of Australian export income. “Lower unemployment and
higher employment and labor incomes should result in a gradual
firming of private consumption.”  The economy will advance 2.9 percent this year, even after
natural disasters in the first quarter, and accelerate in 2012
by 4.5 percent, the fastest pace since 2007, the Paris-based
OECD said. That compares with its November forecasts for 3.6
percent growth this year and a 4 percent expansion in gross
domestic product next year.  Australia’s currency soared 26 percent in the past 12
months on record shipments of  iron ore  and coal to  China  and
 India . Unemployment has fallen below 5 percent -- about half the
rate in the euro area -- and inflation accelerated last quarter
to the fastest pace in five years as businesses including  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 mining company, expand output.  “Mining commodity prices are at historical highs and firms
have again revised their investment plans upwards,” the OECD
said. “Unemployment is projected to fall, although the
remaining slack in the economy will mute the risk of inflation
pressures.”  Inflation Target  RBA policy makers aim to keep inflation in a target range
of 2 percent to 3 percent. The  consumer price index  rose 3.3
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, the biggest
annual jump since 2008, a government report showed April 27. The
increase was led by food prices driven up by a cyclone and
floods in Queensland state, and costlier fuel bills.  Rising home prices were among the reasons RBA Governor
Glenn Stevens increased the overnight cash rate target by 175
basis points, or 1.75 percentage points, from October 2009 to
November last year to 4.75 percent.  The OECD said in today’s report that, under one scenario,
Australian  house prices  will peak in 2011 or 2012. It said the
current stance of monetary policy “seems appropriate.”  Among external risks to the Australian economy, the OECD
cited a worsening of international financial conditions or
greater-than-expected tightening of monetary policy in  Asia  as
inflation pressures rise. A threat to the domestic inflation
outlook is that household confidence will recover, bolstering
stronger consumption, it said.  ‘Tighten Its Stance’  “Should the inflationary pressures described above
materialize, the central bank might have to tighten its stance
to slow the economy,” the OECD said.  In New Zealand, the central bank should “begin to
renormalize” monetary policy as rebuilding from a February
earthquake in the southern city of Christchurch puts pressure on
costs, the OECD said. It forecasts the  New Zealand  economy will
expand 0.8 percent this year and 4.1 percent in 2012.  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand, which aims to keep
inflation in a range of 1 percent to 3 percent, may need to
start lifting  interest rates  by year-end as quake reconstruction
boosts inflation pressures.  “With core inflation expected to remain above the 2
percent mid-point of the target band throughout the projection
horizon, interest rates will need to start to rise around year-
end and return to neutral levels by end-2012,” the OECD said.  The G-10 currencies also include the Swiss franc, the
Swedish krona, the New Zealand dollar,, the Norwegian and Danish
krones, the euro, the U.K. pound, the Japanese yen and the
Canadian and U.S. dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  