-- 
Autism Makes Distinct Changes to Brain’s Gene Patterns, Scientists Find

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-05-25T19:11:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/autism-makes-distinct-changes-to-brain-s-gene-patterns-scientists-find.html
There are well-defined genetic
patterns within the brains of all autism patients, no matter
their symptoms, according to scientists who say the finding may
help identify a cause and a new way to attack the disease.  The patterns are seen in the way genes are expressed to
create proteins in the brain, according to a paper published in
the journal  Nature . Distinct similarities were found among
autistic brains in areas that play a role in judgment,
creativity, emotions and speech, the report said. Brains of
those without the disease showed different patterns.  Developmental disorders, including autism, have increased
17 percent from 1997 to 2008, according to research published
earlier this week. Scientists don’t know what causes autism,
although genetics and environment may play roles, according to
the  National Institutes of Health .  “This finding teaches us that there may be a final common
gene activity network from many different mutations,” said
Robert Ring, vice president for translational research at  Autism
Speaks,  an advocacy group. “This opens a new target space for
thinking about therapeutic intervention.”  The technology to study brain networks in living patients
isn’t yet available, so it’s too soon to use as a diagnostic
measure, said Ring, who wasn’t an author of the study. Instead,
today’s results may spur investigators to look for ways to
measure similar gene activity in live people, he said.  Social Development  Autism is a developmental disorder that appears in the
 first three years of life , and affects the brain’s normal
development of social and communication skills, according to the
NIH, based in Bethesda,  Maryland . Symptoms may include being
withdrawn, communicating with gestures rather than word, touch
oversensitivity, repeated body movements and unusual attachments
to objects, the health agency said.  Scientists compared brain samples from 19 deceased autism
patients and 17 healthy volunteers to measure gene expression
levels. The autistic brains studied didn’t have as many genes
responsible for neuron communication as normal organs, and they
had more DNA involved in immune function, the study found.  “Several of the genes that cropped up in these shared
patterns were previously linked to autism,” said  Daniel
Geschwind , a professor of neurology and psychiatry at the
University of California Los Angeles medical school and a study
author, in a statement. “We provide evidence that the common
molecular changes in neuron function and communication are a
cause, not an effect, of the disease.”  Gene Expressions  In healthy controls, 500 genes varied in expression between
the  frontal lobe , the control center for judgment, and the
 temporal lobe , which organizes sensory input, the researchers
found. In the autistic brains, there was no difference between
these regions.  “The frontal lobe and temporal lobe are both important in
other studies,” said  Martha Herbert , an assistant professor of
neurology at  Harvard Medical School , in a telephone interview.
“The big step forward is you’re looking at a bigger picture of
genetic alteration that also includes not only neurons and
synapses but also immune dysfunction, all connected together in
context, instead of in isolated details.”  The findings may also help focus research on environmental
contributors to autism, and lead to drugs to help autistic
patients later on by identifying targets for scientists, she
said.  The research team included scientists from the  University
of Toronto  and King’s College  London . The brain samples were
provided by the Autism Tissue Program, a brain bank registry,
the Harvard Brain Bank and the Medical Research Council’s London
Brain Bank for Neurodegenerative Disease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 