-- 
Bachus Comforts Wall Street While Assailing Dodd-Frank to Voters Back Home

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-05-25T22:04:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/bachus-comforts-wall-street-while-assailing-dodd-frank-at-home.html
In Homewood,  Alabama , retiree Lynn
Arnold says the U.S. government should crack down on Wall Street
after bond and derivative deals arranged by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
left Jefferson County in fiscal purgatory.  “There needs to be something to help so this doesn’t
happen again to another county or another city,” said the
former audiologist, whose sewer bill may increase 25 percent to
pay for the debacle. “A lot of people are suffering.”  Her congressman is seeking to delay rules meant to do just
that. During the past two decades,  Spencer Bachus  has been the
U.S. House of Representatives’ third-biggest recipient of
donations from financial companies led by JPMorgan. The House
Financial Services Committee, which the Republican leads,
yesterday voted along party lines to stall until September 2012
regulations for derivatives, including those aimed at keeping
the rest of the nation from repeating Jefferson County’s
mistakes.  Jefferson County officials have been considering bankruptcy
since the deals unraveled more than three years ago. Similar
financing burned localities throughout the country, from
Pennsylvania school districts to a California bridge operator,
costing taxpayers more than $4 billion in bank fees to back out
of the trades, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Robbing the Poor  Less than a year after President  Barack Obama  enacted
regulatory overhauls in the wake of the worst financial crisis
since the 1930s, Bachus is leading the pushback. Opponents,
including Democratic Representative  Barney Frank , say the
Republican approach would continue the excesses that caused Wall
Street’s collapse -- and dealt Bachus’s district a lasting blow.  “Wall Street has enabled the greatest robbery of poor
people that’s ever taken place in the history of this state,”
said William Muhammad, a recruiter at the University of Alabama
at Birmingham’s African-American Studies department. “We won’t
recover from this for decades.”  Bachus’s regulatory delay faces long odds of becoming law
while Democrats control the Senate and White House. Still,
Republican criticism of the Dodd-Frank law that Obama signed may
signal the party’s attitude toward Wall Street oversight should
it gain power in next year’s national elections.  ‘Same Deference’  “If anyone should understand why the investment banks need
to be reined in, a member of Congress who represents Jefferson
County should,” said  Barbara Roper , a Pueblo, Colorado-based
lobbyist on financial issues for the  Consumer Federation of
America . “Unfortunately, we’re still seeing the same deference
in Congress to Wall Street that we did before they blew up the
world economy.”  Bachus, a soft-spoken, sandy-haired 63-year old from
Vestavia Hills, represents a Republican stronghold that includes
affluent suburban parts of Jefferson County, which encompasses
Birmingham, the state’s most populous city.  Asked about his position, Bachus, who spurred the
Securities and Exchange Commission in its investigation of the
deals before they unraveled in 2008, said the misdeeds in
Jefferson County were fostered by corruption and punished by
existing laws.  The SEC will hold a hearing in Birmingham to probe how the
county was “victimized by financial malfeasance,” Bachus said
in a May 23  news release .  Bachus said in the interview that he has raised no
objections to tighter rules for municipal derivative deals, and
has denied Democrats’ claims that his party is trying to delay
the rules in order to scrap them.  ‘Criminal Behavior’  “The people who wreaked havoc on our district were the
people who took bribes and the people who bribed the
contractors, they were people that did unnecessary swaps,”
Bachus told reporters after speaking to a bankers group in
 Washington  this month. “Jefferson County’s problem is a debt
problem and a criminal problem. It was criminal behavior then,
it is criminal behavior now.”  In 2009, JPMorgan agreed to cancel Jefferson County’s
swaps, forfeiting more than $647 million in fees. It gave the
county $50 million. It paid a $25 million penalty to settle a
Securities and Exchange Commission investigation without
admitting or denying the allegations. The SEC said the bank
overcharged the county on the transactions so it could funnel
payments to friends of county commissioners.  Persuasion and Overcharges  JPMorgan led banks that overcharged as much as $100 million
on interest-rate swap deals after they persuaded Jefferson
County to refinance nearly all its $3.2 billion of debt for a
sewer project into floating-rate securities.  When the subprime loan market collapsed,  interest rates  on
those bonds soared. The swaps failed to protect the county.
After provisions in the contracts forced the county to pay off
the debt early, it defaulted. Bond insurers sued and a court
appointed a receiver to run the sewer system who is empowered to
raise rates to pay off the debt.  Larry Langford , a former commissioner, was convicted of
accepting bribes for arranging the financings and is serving a
15-year sentence. Two of his associates pleaded guilty, and two
JPMorgan bankers are fighting charges from the SEC. In all, 21
former county officials or contractors have been accused or
convicted of crimes related to sewer remediation projects, a
federal judge said in 2009.  While banks said derivative-laden financings would save
money, they instead exposed municipalities to unforeseen risks
and hit them with billions of dollars in costs.  Redefining the Economy  Republicans, since taking control of the House, have been
attacking what they call overreach in the Dodd-Frank law,
enacted in July, which would regulate derivatives as part of its
rewriting of market rules.  In January, Representative  Michele Bachmann , founder of the
House Tea Party Caucus, proposed repealing the law. Bachus has
 said  it could foster more bailouts by giving regulators the
power to take over failing banks, has advanced bills to limit
the reach of the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and
sought to delay rules for the $601 trillion over-the-counter
 derivatives market .  “I don’t find a lot of good in the bill,” Bachus told
community bankers in Washington this month. “I see Dodd-Frank
takes us in the opposite direction of what made us great. It
will redefine the way our economy operates for decades, it’ll
constrict jobs, and I think it’ll punish Main Street
businesses.”  No Rush  Bachus says the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the
Washington regulator entrusted with expanded authority over the
derivatives business,  shouldn’t race  to meet July deadlines for
setting rules. If done wrong, he says, they could hurt
businesses that use them to mitigate market risks, put U.S.
companies at a disadvantage and increase consumer costs.  “What we’re dealing with is not repealing any rule,” he
said at a hearing yesterday. “It’s just setting a more
deliberative rulemaking process. There’s no need to rush to meet
arbitrary deadlines when the rest of the world is at least 18
months behind the  United States .”  Frank, the committee’s top Democrat, said regulators face
no penalties for missed deadlines.  “It’s not a bill to give the regulators more time,” Frank
said yesterday. “This prevents the regulators from acting when
they think they are ready.”  War Chest  During his two decades in Congress, Bachus -- like Frank,
his predecessor as chairman -- has nurtured ties to  Wall Street 
donors who have poured cash into  campaign chests  of both
Democrats and Republicans. He has received more than $7.1
million from political committees of finance, real estate and
insurance companies and their employees, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics, a Washington group that tracks campaign
donations. That’s more than any House member since 1989 aside
from the Republicans’ two top leaders, Speaker  John Boehner  and
Majority Leader Eric Cantor.  During the first three months of this year, his campaign
received $28,150 through Richard Roberts, a lobbyist whose
clients have included Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and American
Express Co., according to  Federal Election Commission  and U.S.
Senate records. Roberts didn’t respond to telephone messages and
an e-mail seeking comment.  ‘Well Funded’  Bachus’s biggest contributor is JPMorgan, whose employees
and committees have given him $118,000 since 1992, according to
the Center for Responsive Politics.  Roper, the Consumer Federation lobbyist, said fighting
regulations may boost the party’s support from Wall Street.  “If you look at who has the money in the economy now, Wall
Street is back,” she said. “They will certainly be well funded
for their next election.”  Among the proposed rules that Bachus would stall are those
inspired by Jefferson County, whose financings were tied to a
sewer project dogged by cost overruns. What happened there --
while enabled by bribery -- illuminated gaps in securities laws.  JPMorgan and three other banks locked the county into
above-market rates, according to an analysis by former county
financial adviser Porter White & Co. of Birmingham. JPMorgan’s
charges incorporated more  than $8 million in undisclosed 
payments to friends of local officials who worked at firms that
did little or no work on the deals, according to the SEC.  Lawyers for the two former JPMorgan bankers accused of
defrauding the county have argued that the case should be
dismissed because the SEC didn’t have jurisdiction over
interest-rate swaps at the time.  ‘Transparency and Oversight’  The Dodd-Frank Act gave regulators the authority to police
that market and imposed  requirements  on banks. Rules being
drafted by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission would make
banks divulge more about risks; disclose daily market prices for
contracts, making it harder to overcharge; and require banks
that pitch the deals to act in the customers’ best interests.  The chairman of the  Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board ,
which sets rules for underwriters and financial advisers,
criticized the proposed delay.  “We’re dealing with the public’s money here,” the
chairman, Michael Bartolotta, told reporters May 23.  “The sooner we can get some transparency and oversight
into what’s happening in the municipal market with respect to
derivatives, I think the issuers would be well served by that,”
said Bartolotta, who is a vice chairman of First Southwest Co.
in  Dallas .  Banks’ fees were rarely disclosed and officials said they
didn’t understand the dangers.  Appalled by Banks  JPMorgan passed risks onto Jefferson County that it would
never take itself, said Robert Brooks, a professor of finance at
the  University of Alabama  in Tuscaloosa, and the author of a
textbook on derivatives.  “There’s not a bank in the world that would behave that
way with their own money,” he said. “It does reveal just how
disgustingly the banking industry can abuse a client.”  Groups including the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association and pension funds including the  California
Public Employees’ Retirement System  have pressed for changes in
the CFTC rules, saying they would limit Wall Street’s ability to
trade with customers like pension funds and endowments aware of
the risks.  Larry Powell, a University of Alabama at Birmingham
professor of communications who tracks politics, said Bachus’s
wariness of regulation is in line with his career.  Rigged Game  “You can make the argument that he’s not looking out for
the county, but I don’t think he’s thinking of it from that
viewpoint,” he said. “One of the reasons he’s not being
touched by this is they’re not blaming him and they’re not
blaming Washington for this.”  “I don’t think the public as a whole blames Wall Street as
much as it should.”  In 2009, Bachus  compared such derivative deals  to gambling
in a “casino where the house always wins.”  Jim White, the chairman of Porter White, which was brought
in to analyze the deals after questions were raised about them,
said Bachus has helped Jefferson County.  In January 2007, before the deals fell apart, he wrote to
then-SEC Chairman Christopher Cox urging him to press the SEC to
require banks to pay back ill-gotten gains. In November 2009,
JPMorgan agreed to settle, saving the county from the
termination fees and providing it with $50 million for county
employees, residents and sewer customers.  “He went as far as a congressman can appropriately go,”
said White.  At a Starbucks in Bachus’s hometown of Vestavia Hills, a
31,000 person Birmingham suburb, Jack Tester, an employee-
benefits broker who lives in next-door Hoover, said he’d welcome
greater scrutiny on banks after the way JPMorgan sold the county
on the deal.  “Probably, all marketing sales people are more interested
in making the sale than having someone understand the
downside,” he said. “That’s where I think they had some
responsibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  