-- 
Bair Says Regulators Must Use Powers to Avoid a Repeat Crisis

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-05-25T23:56:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/bair-says-regulators-must-use-powers-to-avoid-a-repeat-crisis.html
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Chairman  Sheila Bair  said regulators need to use their powers to
avoid a repeat of the financial crisis that led to a taxpayer
bailout of the banking system.  The Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul enacted last year
“provides the tools to restore market discipline and put an end
to the cycle of government bailouts,” Bair said in testimony
prepared for a hearing tomorrow before a U.S. House Financial
Services subcommittee. Firms deemed “too big to fail” will be
resolvable in the next crisis “only if regulators show the
courage today to fully exercise their authorities.”  Bair, who leaves her post on July 8, has pressed for
authorities to identify systemically important financial
institutions, or SIFIs, and sought a simpler process to deal
with those that fail. It’s critical the FDIC and Federal Reserve
force firms to simplify operational and legal structures before
a crisis so they can be resolved in an emergency, she said.  “There is a real danger that their complexity could make a
SIFI resolution far more costly and more difficult than it needs
to be,” she wrote in the remarks, prepared for delivery to the
Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and  Consumer Credit .  The Dodd Frank Act requires the FDIC to craft regulations
including the so-called living wills rule, which would force
systemically risky firms to spell out how they can be unwound in
the event of a collapse. Bair’s testimony outlines the agency’s
rulemaking and actions it has taken to mitigate effects of the
crisis.  Financial Stability  Bair also pushed for higher capital standards saying they
are essential to preserving financial stability. Bair has said
she supports a 3 percentage point capital surcharge for the
world’s largest banks. Global regulators are still considering
what the surcharge will be.  “We have already experienced a great deal of political
resistance to higher  capital requirements  from industry
representatives claiming that they will stifle growth and derail
the expansion,” Bair said. “These claims ignore the enormous
economic costs of having too little capital coming into this
crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net ; 