-- 
BofA Unit’s Utah Foreclosures Illegal, State Says as Investigation Expands

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-05-25T17:02:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/bank-of-america-unit-s-utah-foreclosures-are-illegal-state-says-in-letter.html
A  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  unit
conducting home foreclosures in  Utah  is violating the law, the
attorney general said in a letter as individual states advanced
their investigations of mortgage servicing.  ReconTrust Co. isn’t meeting requirements for carrying out
foreclosures in the state, Utah Attorney General  Mark Shurtleff 
said in a letter to Bank of America Chief Executive Officer
Brian Moynihan. The letter, dated May 19, was released today by
Shurtleff’s office.  “All real estate foreclosures conducted by ReconTrust in
the state of Utah are not in compliance with Utah’s statutes,
and are hence illegal,” Shurtleff wrote.  Jumana Bauwens, a spokeswoman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, didn’t immediately return a
phone message and an e-mail seeking comment.  The move to crack down on ReconTrust comes as federal
officials and  attorneys general  in all 50 states are
scrutinizing how the largest mortgage servicers, including Bank
of America, handle home loans and conduct foreclosures. New York
Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  is investigating banks’
mortgage securitizations, and California Attorney General Kamala Harris has announced a mortgage fraud task force.  Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS)  was subpoenaed by
California and  Illinois  as part of an investigation of mortgage-
servicing practices, according to statements today. Illinois
also subpoenaed Nationwide Title Clearing Inc., according to an
e-mailed statement from the office of Attorney General Lisa Madigan.  Connecticut Letter  Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen said Bank of
America, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, “is failing to devote
adequate resources” to its mortgage-servicing business in the
state, according to a May 20 letter released by his office
today. Mortgage borrowers seeking help are experiencing
“significant difficulties” with the bank, according to the
letter. Jepsen is helping to lead settlement negotiations with
mortgage servicers as part of the 50-state investigation.  “Despite having had more than two years to ‘right-size’
your staff and establish effective procedures and systems, Bank
of America has so far not prevented even the most common
consumer complaints,” Jepsen wrote to Moynihan.  Earlier this year, in a homeowner’s lawsuit against
ReconTrust, Shurtleff’s office told a federal appeals court that
ReconTrust was breaking the law and urged the court to rule that
it isn’t qualified to conduct trustee foreclosures in Utah.  Utah Appeal  In the appeals court case, Bank of America argued that
ReconTrust has the authority to conduct foreclosures in Utah
under the federal National Bank Act. The only laws that can
limit the fiduciary activities of the company are the laws of
the state where ReconTrust is located, it said. ReconTrust is
based in  California  and its trust operations for Utah
foreclosures take place in  Texas , according to the court filing.  The Utah attorney general’s office “adamantly disagrees”
with the position that as a national bank ReconTrust is exempt
from following Utah law, Shurtleff said. ReconTrust must be a
member of the state bar or a title insurance company, according
to the attorney general.  Shurtleff told Moynihan that his office intends to enforce
that law and asked for a response within 30 days.  “ReconTrust’s exercise of fiduciary powers in the state of
Utah is a violation not only of state law, but also applicable
federal law,” Shurtleff said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 