-- 
Bank of Canada Should Raise Rates at ‘Moderate Pace’, OECD Says

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-05-25T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/bank-of-canada-should-raise-rates-at-moderate-pace-oecd-says.html
The Bank of  Canada  should raise
 interest rates  at a “moderate pace” as it checks inflation
because the federal government’s efforts to rein in its deficit
will slow the recovery, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said.  The OECD forecast that Canadian inflation will accelerate
to 2.9 percent this year before falling to 1.6 percent in 2011
in its semi-annual Economic Outlook published today. It also
raised its forecast for economic growth to 3 percent in 2011
from a November projection of 2.3 percent.  Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney has kept the central
bank’s target rate at 1 percent since September. Carney should
consider the impact of Canada’s plans to rein in spending when
determining the pace of future rate increases, the Paris-based
OECD said in its report.  “Tightening should proceed at a moderate pace in light of
the simultaneous fiscal contraction,” the report said.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper has pledged to erase the
country’s deficit by 2014. Those efforts will act as a drag on
growth starting next year, the OECD said today.  The odds of a  Bank of Canada  interest-rate increase by
September sank below 50 percent for the first time since March
last week, swaps trading shows, as economic data showed the
recovery may be fading and  Europe ’s debt crisis worsens.  Carney said in a May 16 speech that inflation above the
bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target range would be driven by
temporary increases in sales taxes, food and energy costs.  Consumer prices rose 3.3 percent in April from a year
earlier,  Statistics Canada  said in a May 20 report.  While growth was stronger than expected earlier this year,
the expansion will moderate in coming months due to the impact
on global supply chains from  Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami and
a decrease in household spending, the OECD said in its report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Toronto at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 