-- 
Bank of Israel’s Fischer Says U.S. Must Convince Bondholders

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 
2011-05-25T14:37:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/bank-of-israel-s-fischer-says-u-s-must-convince-bondholders.html
The U.S. needs to convince creditors
it can lower its  budget deficit , while global authorities may be
postponing steps to strengthen the financial system against
future crises, Bank of  Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  said.  “We, the rest of the world, people who hold the debt of
the U.S., have to have a well-founded belief that the U.S. is
going to deal, as it has always dealt, with its financial
problems in a responsible way,” Fischer told Bloomberg
Television in Paris today. “There has to be progress in that
direction, progress in convincing people that will happen.”  The U.S., whose debt may rise to 101 percent of gross
domestic product this year, has yet to produce “credible
medium-term plans” to reduce its shortfall, the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said
today. President  Barack Obama ’s administration is trying to
reach an agreement with lawmakers on how to cut the shortfall as
part of a plan to raise the legal debt limit from its current
level of $14.294 trillion.  Global authorities may also be postponing measures to shore
up the financial system, said Fischer, who was Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s thesis adviser.  “I worry a great deal about the fact that we have not yet
reformed financial systems sufficiently to know that we’re not
going to face a future financial crisis because of weaknesses in
financial systems,” he said. “We have to worry about problems
that are being put off, possibly for too long.”  IMF Job  Fischer, a former first deputy managing director of the
 International Monetary Fund , said the euro-region’s debt crisis
doesn’t make it necessary for the fund to elect a European
candidate to replace  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , calling it a “not
very convincing argument.”  Asked if he would like the post, Fischer said he plans to
stay at the helm of the Bank of Israel. He didn’t say whether
he’ll present his candidacy for the role, which he called
“terrific.”  The Washington-based IMF and European governments made
“absolutely” the right decision last year in giving  Greece  a
110 billion-euro ($155 billion) bailout without restructuring
the nation’s debt, which amounted to 143 percent of GDP last
year.  “The atmosphere was super-hot, super-dangerous at that
time and changes could have led to a chain reaction that would
have been very, very dangerous for the whole European economy,”
he said. “It’s more relaxed now, it isn’t relaxed though.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Francine Lacqua in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  