-- 
Bank of Montreal Second-Quarter Profit Tops Estimates on Fewer Loan Losses

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-05-25T20:32:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/bank-of-montreal-second-quarter-profit-rises-7-5-on-fewer-loan-losses.html
Bank of Montreal (BMO) , the first Canadian
bank to report second-quarter results, said profit rose 7.5
percent to a record after it set aside less money for bad loans.  Net income for the quarter ended April 30 rose to C$800
million ($817 million), or C$1.34 a share, from C$745 million,
or C$1.26, a year earlier, the Toronto-based bank said today in
a statement. Revenue rose 5.5 percent to C$3.22 billion.  Bank of Montreal pared its loan-loss provisions by 42
percent to C$145 million, the lowest since the third quarter of
2007. Credit conditions are improving as more Canadians are
working after economic growth surged 4.2 percent in the first
three months of the year.  “Improving  credit quality  within  Canada  was much stronger
than we had anticipated and led to the significantly lower
provisions than we had forecast,”  John Aiken , an analyst at
 Barclays Capital  in Toronto, said today in a note. “BMO’s
second quarter was a good start to earnings season.”  Canada’s fourth-biggest bank by assets said adjusted
earnings were C$1.35 a share, beating the average per-share
estimate of C$1.32 from 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. It
was the eighth straight quarter of profit increases for Bank of
Montreal, the longest growth streak among Canada’s six biggest
banks.  Bank of Montreal rose 55 cents to C$62.05 at 4 p.m. trading
on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The stock has risen 8 percent
this year, compared with the 10 percent rise for the 10-company
 Standard & Poor’s /TSX Banks Index.  Sustainable Growth  Chief Executive Officer William Downe said growth in the
second half of the year will be driven by commercial banking in
Canada and the U.S.  “The consumer is, appropriately, becoming a little more
conservative in Canada, and in the U.S. I think they’re just
tempering their spending a little,” Downe said in a telephone
interview. “Commercial will lead.”  Bank of Montreal was forecast by analysts to have the
slowest profit growth among Canadian lenders for the quarter.
Canada’s eight publicly traded banks may post an average 12
percent rise in profit, according to Sumit Malhotra, an analyst
at Macquarie Capital Markets.  “One of the things that we’ll see that’s going to help
profits again this quarter is the continued decline in credit
provisions,”  Craig Fehr , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in
 St. Louis , said in an interview before earnings. “I do think
that provisions will continue to decline.”  Canadian consumer banking profit rose 1.8 percent to C$401
million from a year earlier. Profit from its Chicago-based
Harris consumer bank fell to C$42 million from C$46 million.  M&I Purchase  The lender agreed Dec. 17 to buy Milwaukee-based  Marshall &
Ilsley Corp. (MI)  for about $4.1 billion in stock to double its U.S.
deposits and branches. M&I shareholders approved the takeover on
May 17 and the deal is expected to close by July 31. Bank of
Montreal said it expects annual cost savings will exceed $300
million from combining M&I with Harris, up from its initial
forecast of $250 million.  The BMO Capital Markets investment-banking unit earned
C$235 million, down 9.6 percent from C$260 million a year
earlier. Trading income plunged 39 percent to C$204 million, led
by lower trading in interest rate derivatives and stocks.  Profit from the private-client group, which includes
brokerage, insurance, investing services and mutual funds, fell
12 percent to C$101 million. Insurance income was lowered by
C$47 million due to “unusually high claims” related to
earthquakes in  Japan  and  New Zealand , Bank of Montreal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  or
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  