-- 
Barclays Among Banks Breaking Privacy Rules, Consumer Group Says

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-25T12:43:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/barclays-among-banks-breaking-privacy-rules-consumer-group-says.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and
six other lenders are suspected of breaking rules on protecting
customer data a total of more than 500 times in one year, the
U.K. consumer rights group Which? said.  Complaints filed through August 2010 with Britain’s privacy
watchdog, the  Information Commissioner’s Office , include claims
that banks failed to give customers copies of data held on them,
failed to follow security rules and gave data to third parties,
the consumer group said today in a statement.  Financial institutions “hold incredibly sensitive
information and the impact on customers can be serious if they
mishandle it, from affecting credit ratings to leaving people
open to fraud,” Which? Executive Director Richard Lloyd said in
the statement.  The customer rights group said the problem could be much
worse, since 87 percent of U.K. citizens haven’t heard of the
privacy watchdog and therefore can’t file complaints. Filings
have nonetheless been on the rise, the group said, with
complaints against financial services firms rising about 10
percent in 2009, to 1,163 from 1,060.  Which? said Barclays had the most complaints with 116
filings in the year through August 2010.  Elizabeth Holloway, a spokeswoman for London-based
Barclays, said the figures supplied by Which? are too high
because about half of the complaints were found to not be
violations.  ‘Considerable Lengths’  Santander, which attracted 103 privacy complaints in the
period, goes to “considerable lengths” to protect customer
data and the ICO complaints represent a small fraction of its 25
million U.K. customers, said spokeswoman Lara Lipsey.  Brian Capon, a spokesman the British Bankers’ Association,
a trade group, said many of the cases stem from claims-handling
companies, which dispute their customers’ records in order to
try to strike out credit agreements.  About 20 percent of complaints against financial
institutions are upheld, ICO spokeswoman Kirsty McCaskill said
in an e-mail. Of those that aren’t, many concern customer-
service issues, she said.  “While the number of upheld complaints is small compared
to the millions of bank accounts in the U.K., mishandling of
financial information can have a serious effect on individuals’
lives,” McCaskill said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story. 