-- 
BASF Increases Chinese, Malaysian Capacity as Asian Demand Rises

-- B y   R o b y n   M e r e d i t h   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-05-25T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/basf-increases-chinese-malaysian-capacity-as-asian-demand-rises.html
BASF SE (BAS)  Deputy Chief Executive
Officer Martin Brudermueller said the chemical industry will
draw most of its growth from  Asia  in coming years, underscoring
the role of emerging markets for the German company.  BASF, which won approval in March for a plant in Chongqing
in the west of China, expects global chemical demand to expand
by 1.1 trillion euros ($1.5 trillion) until 2020, with Asia
accounting for 700 billion euros of that amount, Brudermueller
said in a Bloomberg TV interview in Hong Kong, where he has been
based for five years.  BASF and joint venture partner China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp., known as Sinopec, are expanding a flagship Asian Verbund
site in Nanjing,  China , where the companies will have 30
integrated factories, Brudermueller said. The Ludwigshafen,
Germany-based chemical maker is also expanding its production in
Kuantan, Malaysia, he said. The company said this month it’s on
course to double sales in the Asia-Pacific region by 2020, based
on revenue of 9 billion euros in 2008.  “It’s exactly the right moment to emphasize how important
Asia Pacific is for the growth of BASF,” Brudermueller said.
“There are a lot of big investments out here, a lot of
opportunities that need to be shaped. And I think it’s important
to stay out here.”  The factory in Chongqing, expected to start operations in
2014, will produce diphenylmethane diisocyanate, or MDI, used in
polymers for coatings and adhesives. BASF invested 860 million
euros in the site, which is wholly owned by the German company,
Brudermueller said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robyn Meredith in  Hong Kong  at 
 rmeredith8@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in  Frankfurt  at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 