-- 
Biden Aims for $1 Trillion in Budget Cuts, Opens Medicare Cost For Debate

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-05-25T15:57:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/biden-aims-for-1-trillion-in-budget-cuts-opens-medicare-debate.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  set a goal
of at least $1 trillion in budget cuts from negotiations with
congressional leaders on the federal debt as talks turned to
Medicare, a contentious issue that risks replicating a partisan
divide on  Capitol Hill .  Democrats in the meeting yesterday ruled out concessions on
Medicare without Republican agreement to raise  tax revenue , a
step the party’s leaders so far have rejected, according to
someone familiar with the talks who spoke on condition of
anonymity. Biden underscored the issue in remarks to reporters
afterward.  “I made clear today that revenues have to be in the
deal,” Biden said, even as he expressed optimism about
prospects for the talks. Negotiators are on a pace “to get
above $1 trillion” in cuts for a “down payment on the
process,” he said. There is no agreement yet, a participant in
the talks who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly said on
condition of anonymity.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
said he is “confident we can get to over $1 trillion in
immediate cuts,” though he told reporters that “tax increases
cannot pass the House.”  The focus on the politically charged issue of entitlements,
which last week undermined a similar five-month attempt at a
bipartisan deal, will test whether Republicans and Democrats can
find common ground amid an increasingly partisan battle in
Congress over the future of Medicare.  Senate Vote  The Senate is preparing to vote this week on a House
Republican budget crafted by Representative  Paul Ryan  that would
privatize Medicare for people who turn 65 starting in 2022. The
plan was a leading issue in a special election yesterday for a
vacant House seat in  New York .  As the meeting broke up, Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of
 Maryland  said the tone of the talks “remains positive.”  “We’ll tackle a series of issues,” he said, citing one
example from President Barack Obama’s proposal -- a rebate for
so-called dual eligibles, or people who qualify for both
Medicare and Medicaid.  Republicans have demanded reductions in spending as a
condition for passing legislation to raise the $14.3 trillion
statutory debt limit. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner 
projected on May 2 that the government will run out of options
to avoid a default if the limit is not raised by early August.  The battles stirred by Ryan’s Medicare proposal create an
obstacle to reaching a bipartisan agreement that includes large
long-term savings on the deficit, said  Jim Kessler , vice
president for policy at  Third Way , a Washington research group
that describes itself as advocating “moderate policy.”  ‘Danger of Unraveling’  “We are in a week in which the center is in danger of
unraveling,” Kessler said. “Republicans feel they can’t
retreat from the Ryan budget, and Democrats feel they have
Republicans by the throat on Medicare.”  The Biden group “is right now the primary game” in town
after a bipartisan group of senators seeking a long-term debt
deal stalled last week with the defection of Republican Senator
 Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma , said House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer, a
Maryland Democrat.  Former Wyoming Senator  Alan Simpson , co-chairman of the
president’s fiscal commission, said a down payment with
enforceable targets similar to what Biden discussed would be
sufficient to reassure markets.  “You don’t have to do high drama,” Simpson said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. “You just do a plan. If you
do a plan, that’s enough to settle the markets.”  Coburn said today on Bloomberg Television that he left the
talks as a “kind of a sabbatical” after concluding the
senators were at an impasse over entitlement programs. “We
should be honest with the American people that we are going to
have to change those if we want a secure future,” he said.  Common Ground  So far, the group of six House and Senate members meeting
with Biden -- who include Cantor and Senate Finance Committee
Chairman  Max Baucus  of Montana -- has found common ground on
$200 billion in spending cuts, including agriculture subsidies,
congressional aides said.  White House Budget Director Jack Lew said that while it
will take weeks to resolve the difference, “there’s a lot of
trust being built up.”  Separately, Senator Dick Durbin of  Illinois , the chamber’s
second-ranking Democrat, said a group of senators formerly known
as the “Gang of Six” -- now down to five with Coburn’s
departure -- will meet today for a second day to discuss a path
forward.  Negotiators are seeking consensus against a bitter
political backdrop. Democrats have seized on the Ryan proposal
as a line of attack, and even some prominent Republicans have
demonstrated uneasiness about the idea.  Backlash for Gingrich  At the same time, conservatives in the party showed the
peril of abandoning Ryan’s plan. Republican presidential
candidate  Newt Gingrich  initially criticized it as “right-wing
social engineering” in a May 15 appearance on NBC’s “Meet the
Press” only to reverse himself following a backlash.  The Medicare issue played a critical role in yesterday’s
special election, as Democratic candidate Kathy Hochul defeated
Republican Jane Corwin and Tea Party candidate  Jack Davis  after
highlighting Corwin’s support for the Republican plan.  The seat had long been held by Republicans, and Republican
presidential candidate  John McCain  carried the district in 2008.  The negotiators led by Biden ultimately will have to come
up with some cuts to the program, and it’s likely to be
“trimming around the edges,” said  Ira Loss , a health policy
analyst with  Washington  Analysis LLC, a Washington-based
investment research firm.  Squeezing Out Savings  Last year Obama signed a health-care overhaul measure that
the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  estimated would
already squeeze $483 billion from Medicare and Medicaid over 10
years.  Maine Senator  Susan Collins , a Republican who has said she
will vote against the Ryan proposal if no changes are made, said
there are other options on Medicare -- “from means testing to
better controls over wasteful payments” -- that Republicans can
support.  In its report last December, leaders of the president’s
deficit commission proposed almost $500 billion in health-care
savings without overhauling Medicare and Medicaid, said Marc
Goldwein, who served as the panel’s associate director.  “There is a lot of room between what Congressman Ryan
proposed and doing nothing,” said Goldwein, now policy director
at the  Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget  in Washington,
a bipartisan research center that examines fiscal policy issues.  Medical Malpractice  Obama and the Republicans have proposed overhauling the
U.S. medical malpractice system, which could save up to $55
billion over a decade. In addition, restricting what are known
as “Medigap” insurance plans could save up to $130 billion
over 10 years.  Those policies provide supplemental insurance that are used
to cover Medicare’s deductibles and cost-sharing. Because they
shield patients from the cost of their care, they actually raise
total spending, said Henry Aaron, a senior fellow at the
Washington-based  Brookings Institution  who studies the economics
of health care.  The fiscal commission recommended limiting how much Medigap
plans are allowed to cover and making patients pay co-pays and
deductibles.  Baucus said yesterday that he is optimistic about a deal.
“There’s opportunity to get a result, to get a solution here,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  