-- 
Congressman Jackson, Rahm Emanuel Testify as Blagojevich Defense Witnesses

-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 
2011-05-25T18:50:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/blagojevich-defense-calls-congressman-jackson-as-witness-1-.html
U.S. Representative Jesse Jackson Jr.
and Chicago mayor  Rahm Emanuel  appeared as defense witnesses for
 Rod Blagojevich , the ex- Illinois  governor being tried on
corruption charges.  Jackson, an Illinois Democrat, and Emanuel, a former
Illinois congressman and White House chief of staff, took the
stand today in U.S. District Court in Chicago, where Blagojevich
has been on trial since May 2.  Blagojevich, 54, whose first trial ended last August with
the jury deadlocked on 23 of 24 criminal counts, is accused of
crimes include trying to trade official acts for campaign money.
One favor allegedly for sale was the appointment of a
replacement to fill the Senate seat vacated by  Barack Obama  when
he was elected president in 2008.  Jackson testified that he never raised money for any
political candidate except himself. The congressman was a Senate
hopeful “whose associate Blagojevich understood to have offered
$1.5 million” for the governor’s re-election in return an
appointment to the vacancy, according to Blagojevich’s
indictment.  Jackson denied any wrongdoing and said he wasn’t a target
in the federal investigation. A House ethics committee review of
the matter was put on hold pending the Blagojevich retrial.  Jackson said that Blagojevich when running for governor
asked for a $25,000 contribution and Jackson said no.  Job for Wife  The congressman also told Blagojevich his wife was
interested in a position in the governor’s administration, which
she didn’t get, he testified.  When the men saw each other later, Jackson said, the
governor noted that the job request didn’t pan out.  “In classic Elvis fashion, he snapped his fingers and
said, ‘You should have given me that $25,000,’” Jackson said.  Emanuel, testifying for less than five minutes, said
Blagojevich never asked for help in getting a job in return for
appointing  Valerie Jarrett , an Obama campaign adviser, to the
Senate seat.  Blagojevich at the first trial was convicted of lying to
federal agents and is being retried on 20 of the deadlocked
charges. Three were dropped.  The former governor faced debts and a shortage of campaign
money before his arrest, Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher Niewoehner told jurors in his opening statement.  Senate Seat  “He decided to sell the Senate seat to solve his
problem,” the prosecutor said.  Blagojevich was arrested in December 2008 after the
presidential election and before Obama took office.  The ex-governor faces 10 counts of  wire fraud , plus charges
of attempted extortion and extortion conspiracy. A conviction
might result in a 20-year prison sentence. He is also accused of
bribery.  Lying to investigators, for which Blagojevich hasn’t been
sentenced, is punishable by as much as five years in prison.  Democrat Roland Burris received the Senate appointment and
served until a special election in November.  The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08-cr-00888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois ( Chicago ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago
at   mparker22@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 