-- 
Bloomberg View Publishes First Editorials, Columns and Op-Eds

-- B y  
-- 
2011-05-25T12:53:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/bloomberg-view-publishes-first-editorials-columns-and-op-eds.html

Press Release  New Opinion Section Debuts Today as Part of Next Evolution of
Bloomberg.com;  Today’s Launch Includes Columns by  Margaret Carlson , William
Cohan,  Jeffrey Goldberg ,  Simon Johnson , Ron Klain, Vali Nasr,
Peter Orszag, William Pesek and Ramesh Ponnuru  New York, May 25 -- Bloomberg View, the new opinion section of
Bloomberg News, launched today on the Bloomberg Professional
service and on the redesigned Bloomberg.com, reaching an
influential audience of financial and business professionals.  As of today, Bloomberg View will publish regular columns by an
expanded roster of columnists, op-ed articles by occasional
contributors and unsigned editorials developed by Bloomberg
View’s editorial board that draw on the vast reporting, data and
analytics resources of Bloomberg LP.  The launch of Bloomberg View coincides with the debut of a newly
designed homepage and the next evolution of Bloomberg.com. Over
the past year, the Bloomberg.com audience of senior business
leaders has grown 88 percent to 12.6 million unique visitors per
month. For more information about the new phase of the web site,
visit the  Bloomberg Blog .  Follow Bloomberg View on  Twitter  and on  Facebook .  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength - delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately
- is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact:  Ty Trippet, +1 212-617-2443,  ttrippet@bloomberg.net 
