-- 
Bombardier Expects CSeries First Operator Among 2011 Orders

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-05-25T23:04:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/bombardier-expects-cseries-first-operator-among-2011-orders-1-.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , with no new orders
for its CSeries jet in a more than a year, expects to announce
an agreement this year for the airplane’s first operator, the
company’s commercial-aircraft chief said.  The airliner, which is scheduled to enter service in 2013
after a first flight in the second half of next year, will
attract more buyers for the world’s third-largest planemaker,
said  Gary Scott , president of Montreal-based Bombardier’s
commercial-aerospace unit.  “The last thing I’m worried about is orders,” Scott said
in an interview while in  New York . “I know the number of
customers I’m talking to. I’m more concerned about being able to
provide enough airplanes as my customers would like.”  Signing up a launch customer, who agrees to be the
airplane’s first operator, is important for planemakers, because
it shows support for a new aircraft.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  was
the first order announced, yet doesn’t plan to take delivery
until sometime after the plane’s 2013 introduction.  The CSeries has received no new orders since Republic
Airways Holdings Inc. agreed to buy 40 jets and took options for
40 more about a year ago. Some analysts have questioned whether
that indicates a lack of demand for the aircraft, which will
seat 100 to 149 passengers.  Scott said it’s not possible yet to say whether Bombardier
would be able to announce new orders for the CSeries in time for
the  Paris Air Show  next month. The company doesn’t try to time
orders to the industry’s biggest gathering, he said.  ‘Ramp Up’  “Today, among the very active discussions we have going,
we have competing customers for that first airplane,” Scott
said. “We will have more orders this year. And I fully expect
one of those orders to include the first operator.”  “So we’re going to ramp up the CSeries as fast as we
possibly can,” Scott said. Bombardier is preparing facilities
to produce sections of the CSeries in countries including  China ,
 Canada  and Ireland, Scott said. The goal is to produce one plane
a day four to five years into production, he said.  The company is seeking the slice of the narrow-body
airplane market for up to 149 seats, the smallest size in
passenger capacity of the world’s biggest aircraft market.  That puts it in competition with planes in the smallest
range of seat capacity from Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
Toulouse, France-based Airbus SAS. Almost half of narrow-body
planes in the air today, or 5,550 aircraft, are in that seat
range with an average age of 13 years, according to research
firm Ascend.  Boeing Plans  Boeing said yesterday the company may decide in the next
nine months whether to build a successor to its  narrow-body
plane  by 2019 that seats 150 to 220 people. That would leave the
100-seat to 150-seat category targeted by the CSeries
unaddressed, Bombardier has said.  Boeing, the second-biggest commercial-aircraft maker,
prefers building an all-new plane to offering new engines on the
existing aircraft as larger rival Airbus did with its narrow-
body A320. Airbus has said it plans to produce the smaller
A319Neo next, then the A321 version, the largest.  Boeing, which still hasn’t committed itself to a narrow-
body strategy, will make a decision on whether to build a new
jet and what size it would be by the end of this year, sliding
the decision beyond the Paris show, executives said yesterday.
The smallest 737 sold now starts at 125 seats.  Airbus may not have a new narrow-body before 2027 as it
doesn’t expect enough engine technology advances before then to
warrant a $10 billion development program, Chief Operating
Officer  John Leahy  has said.  Fuel Tradeoff  Neither planemaker has taken away expected orders from
Bombardier’s planned aircraft, Scott said.  Potential CSeries orders from carriers such as Qatar
Airways Ltd. were in limbo last year as airlines grappled with
risking capital on a new plane while contending with volatile
fuel prices as the industry recovered from the financial crisis.  Even if Airbus wins orders for its upgraded plane from a
carrier like Lufthansa, which in March also ordered A320neos, it
doesn’t mean Bombardier is losing ground, Scott said. That’s
because those models don’t occupy the same routes that demand as
many seats. The CSeries is designed to help airlines temper
rising fuel costs by cutting fuel consumption than current
smaller aircraft, such as the older MD80s.  “Fuel is the number one differentiator with airlines,” he
said. “That’s the tradeoff they have to make.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vivek Shankar at 
 vshankar3@bloomberg.net  