-- 
Abbott, Boston Scientific Win FDA Approval for Narrow Stent

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-05-25T20:08:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/boston-scientific-receives-regulatory-approval-for-promus-1-.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and  Boston
Scientific Corp. (BSX) , the biggest makers of artery-opening heart
stents, won U.S. approval for a smaller version of the device to
help patients with narrower blood vessels.  The drug-coated stent, used to prop open clogged arteries,
was approved for use in vessels as small as 2.25 millimeters in
diameter, or less than one-tenth of an inch, Natick,
Massachusetts-based Boston Scientific said in a statement today.
Abbott makes the stent and will sell it as Xience Nano, while
Boston Scientific will market its version as Promus, Abbott said
in a separate statement.  About 10 percent of patients who need artery-clearing
angioplasty procedures have vessels smaller than 2.5
millimeters, the two companies said. The smaller device will
help offset some of the financial pressure from declining sales
for the devices, said John Thomas, Abbott’s vice-president for
 investor relations , in a conference call last month.  Boston Scientific was the leading seller of drug-coated
stents last year, generating $1.54 billion in revenue, while
Abbott, based in  Abbott Park , Illinois, was second with $1.34
billion, according to a March 25 note to investors from Larry Biegelsen, a Wells Fargo & Co. analyst in New York.  Abbott receives 40 percent of Boston Scientific’s profits
on the sale of Promus in an agreement that runs until June 2012,
said Jonathon Hamilton, an Abbott spokesman, in an e-mail today.  Boston Scientific rose 24 cents, or 3.6 percent, to $6.91
at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, for its
biggest gain since March 1. Abbott fell 36 cents to $52.97.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 