-- 
Brazil Stocks Advance on Commodity Gains, Report Showing Slower Inflation

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-05-25T21:22:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/bovespa-stock-index-advances-as-homebuilders-retailers-gain-on-rate-bets.html
The Bovespa stock index advanced for
a second day as rising commodity prices lifted producers and a
report signaled inflation may be easing in  Brazil ’s biggest
city, overshadowing declines by retailers.  Steelmaker Gerdau SA rose to the highest in two weeks as
metals prices climbed. Cosan SA Industria e Comercio, which
shares control of the world’s biggest sugar-cane processor,
followed sugar prices higher. PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos &
Participacoes led gains for homebuilders. The index’s advance
was limited as Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de
Acucar slipped after denying it’s in merger talks with Carrefour
SA, joining a drop for retailers.  The Bovespa increased 0.1 percent to 63,388.44 at the 4:15
p.m. New York time close, paring a drop from a high in November
to 13 percent. Thirty-three stocks rose on the index while 32
fell. The real weakened 0.4 percent to 1.6304 per dollar.  “I’ve seen positive flows in the latest data from the
exchange,” said Kelly Trentin, head analyst at Sao Paulo-based
brokerage Spinelli Corretora. “Investors are still quite timid
about investing in our market.”  Commodities climbed for a second day amid speculation
recent price declines were excessive as demand improves. Copper
helped lead the advance in commodities after Deutsche Bank AG
joined JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
predicting prices are likely to rebound. Oil futures recovered
from earlier losses to climb above $101 a barrel as U.S.
government data showed fuel demand increased.  Gerdau, Latin America’s largest steelmaker, gained 2.2
percent to 17.06 reais. Cosan advanced 4.2 percent to 23.80
reais.  Consumer Prices  Sao Paulo ’s FIPE weekly consumer prices report from the
Foundation Economics Research Institute showed an increase of
0.47 percent in the third week of May, lower than the previous
reading of 0.56 percent and the median projection of 0.48
percent in a Bloomberg survey of 15 economists.  PDG, Brazil’s biggest homebuilder by revenue, advanced 2
percent to 9.34 reais.  Pao de Acucar, Brazil’s biggest retailer, lost 0.5 percent
to 65.67 reais after denying press reports that it’s in talks
with Carrefour to merge their businesses in the South American
country. A spokeswoman for Carrefour declined to comment on Pao
de Acucar’s statement. Lojas Renner SA, Brazil’s biggest
publicly traded clothing retailer, declined 2.3 percent to 55.05
reais.  Investors poured 1.5 billion reais ($920 million) into
 Latin America ’s biggest equity market in the month through May
23, after pulling 4.07 billion reais from February through
April, data from the Sao Paulo exchange show.  The Bovespa trades at 10 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, the lowest since March 2009, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 12.8 for the
Shanghai Composite Index, 6.6 for  Russia ’s Micex and 14.4 for
 India ’s Sensex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  