-- 
Brain Barrier Breached in Roche Push to Deliver Potential Alzheimer’s Drug

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 
2011-05-25T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/brain-barrier-breached-in-roche-push-to-deliver-potential-alzheimer-s-drug.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  scientists may have
found a way to overcome a blood barrier that keeps drugs from
directly entering the brain, potentially opening new pathways to
attack Alzheimer’s disease.  The technique, tested in animals, makes use of a receptor
that carries iron molecules across the barrier of blood, fluid
and membranes that keeps bacteria and other substances, such as
medicines, out of the brain, said  Ryan Watts , a researcher at
Roche’s Genentech unit in South  San Francisco ,  California . The
scientists configured a protein called an antibody to hitch a
ride on the receptor, he said.  Alzheimer’s impairs mental function in  18 million people 
globally, the  World Health Organization  says. Namenda, from New
York-based Forest Laboratories Inc., and Aricept, made by  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE) , of New York, and Tokyo-based Eisai Co., address symptoms
without slowing or curing the disease. Efforts to alter its
course with drugs have failed partly because of the barrier.  “It’s brilliant,”  Robert Vassar , a professor of cell and
molecular biology at Northwestern University Medical School in
 Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “They hijacked a
mechanism that is a normal part of the blood-brain barrier.”  Roche, based in Basel,  Switzerland , is  Europe ’s largest
drugmaker by sales. The approach described today in the journal
 Science Translational Medicine  may also work for Huntington’s
and Parkinson’s, the researchers said.  ‘Elegant Strategy’  It is “an elegant strategy” that provides “proof of
principle” that this obstacle can be overcome, Steven Paul, a
researcher at Weill Cornell Medical College in  New York , said in
a commentary published alongside the research.  The hallmark of Alzheimer’s is the formation of clumps of a
protein called  beta amyloid  and tangles of another called tau.
Scientists don’t know why they accumulate or become twisted, and
there is debate as to whether they cause the illness or are an
end-product of some different process.  Watts, the study leader, is developing a drug that blocks
the action of an enzyme called BACE1 that’s involved in amyloid
production. When his team tried to get their anti-BACE1 into the
brains of mice and monkeys, they found that only a tiny fraction
made it there.  “To do what we wanted to do in the brain, we had to dose
like crazy, frequently and at high levels,” Watts said in an
interview at  Genentech ’s campus. Such high dosages would be
expensive and infeasible, Paul said.  “We needed a solution,” Watts said.  Cells Need Iron  Watts turned to  Mark Dennis , from Genentech’s department of
antibody engineering, who took advantage of the fact that all
cells, including brain cells, need iron. He engineered an
antibody with two arms. One arm was the anti-BACE1 drug; the
other docked with a receptor called  transferrin  that carries
iron to brain cells, providing a ferry across the barrier.  The system allowed the researchers to deliver anti-BACE1 to
the brains of mice, blunting the impact of the BACE1 enzyme and
cutting in half the amount of amyloid in the brains of mice 48
hours after injection, according to the journal report.  More work is needed before the two-armed antibody can be
tested in people, Watts said. A human version of the transferrin
receptor antibody needs to be created and more safety testing
must be done on large animals, he said.  “I think the prospects are quite strong” that the
research could lead to a human therapy, said Vassar, who first
identified and cloned the BACE1 enzyme in 1999.  Last August, Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  released
data showing that semagacestat, a drug directed against an
enzyme involved in the production of amyloid, harmed patients
instead of helping them. While that failure dampened enthusiasm
for medicines that target amyloid, many researchers still see
the plaques as being involved in development of the disease.  Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, and  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) , of New Brunswick,  New Jersey , for instance, are testing
a drug aimed at amyloid called bapineuzumab and Lilly is testing
another, called solanezumab. Both are in late-stage trials that
should be completed within two years, Weill Cornell’s Paul said
in his commentary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 