-- 
Brazil Bank Funding Woes May Stoke Takeovers by Newcomers, Meirelles Says

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-05-25T14:19:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/brazil-deposit-insurer-may-finance-more-bank-takeovers-central-bank-says.html
Brazil  will see more acquisitions in
its banking system after demand for purchasing credit portfolios
from mid-size banks dried up, said central bank director Anthero
Meirelles.  Smaller banks that were too dependent on selling pools of
loans to larger banks for funding will need to find new ways to
raise capital, said Meirelles, who has sat on the central bank’s
board since 2007. These banks may merge, be acquired or find new
funding sources, he added.  “There could be newcomers seeing an acquisition as a way
to speed up the process of entering the market,” Meirelles, who
oversees supervision of Brazil’s banking system, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “There could be smaller banks
partnering, merging or one buying the other.”  Since the Nov. 9 bailout of  Banco Panamericano SA (BPNM4)  that
triggered a fraud investigation into the Sao Paulo-based lender
by federal police, larger banks have severely reduced their
purchases of loan portfolios from smaller rivals, said Rafael Guedes, managing director of Fitch Ratings’ unit in  Sao Paulo .  That’s made it harder for lenders to finance credit growth
while complying with tighter deposit requirements for consumer
loans set by the central bank in December, Guedes said in Sao
Paulo.  Two other banks, Banco Schahin SA and Banco Morada SA, have
faced liquidity problems since the market of selling loan
portfolios, called cessao de credito in Portuguese, dried up.  Consolidation, Expansion  On April 23, Banco BMG SA agreed to buy the Sao Paulo-based
Schahin for about 230 million reais ($142 million), with the
nation’s bank-deposit fund, known as FGC, providing credit
guarantees to facilitate the acquisition.  “The fund could participate in helping finance some of the
acquisitions,” Meirelles said.  On April 28, the central bank took control of Morada
because the Rio de Janeiro-based lender didn’t comply with
 capital requirements  or provide a viable recovery plan to stay
solvent. Panamericano, Schahin and Morada each held less than $2
billion in assets.  There are 20 companies, foreign and Brazilian-owned,
waiting to receive  authorization  to operate as a bank in Brazil,
Meirelles said.  Registry  Brazil’s central bank has raised  interest rates  three times
this year and increased bank reserve requirements to slow
inflation and prevent a credit bubble.  The rules announced Dec. 3 removed at least 61 billion
reais ($37 billion) from circulation after  consumer lending  rose
sixfold over the past eight years, to $495 billion, according to
the bank’s figures.  “I see a movement toward consolidation and a search for
new businesses,” Meirelles said.  The Brazilian Federation of Banks, along with other market
and banking associations, is developing a registry that will
track 30 million loan contracts and help ensure that banks
provide accurate information on the buying and selling of loan
portfolios.  This transparency may restore demand for these credit pools
to “normal,” Meirelles said.  ‘Victims,’ Funding  The banks that were taken over “are victims of the
cycle,” said Sergio Garibian, a bank analyst at  Standard &
Poor’s  in  Buenos Aires , in a telephone interview. “The market
is growing so fast that if you don’t grow, you’re losing market
share; but if there’s a liquidity squeeze, it’s game over.”  Brazilian financial stocks on the MSCI Brazil index fell
0.6 percent at 9:31 a.m. New York time, led by  Itau Unibanco
Holding SA (ITUB4) , Brazil’s biggest bank by market value.  Banco BTG Pactual SA agreed to buy a controlling stake in
Sao Paulo-based Panamericano on Jan. 31 and assumed 3.8 billion
reais of the bank’s obligations to cover its losses amid the
criminal probe into the sale of its loan portfolios.  Some Brazilian banks sold stakes last month to raise cash
as funding became scarcer. Banco Pine SA said in a March 21
regulatory filing that Deutsche Investitions-und
Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH, a German  development bank , agreed
to buy a 43.7 million-real stake in the lender. P  New York-based private equity firm Warburg Pincus LLC paid
an initial 150 million reais for at least a 23 percent stake in
 Banco Indusval SA (IDVL3) , according to a March 22 regulatory filing.  Global Appeal  The rate Brazilian banks charge companies and consumers for
loans rose 4 percentage points in three months through March to
an average 39 percent a year, according to the central bank,
which is luring lenders from around the world.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  is expanding in Brazil with a new
commercial banking license that will allow it to take deposits
and offer cash-management services to corporate clients in the
country.  Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s Brazil unit plans to more than double
its workforce as it seeks to reach 5 billion Swiss francs ($5.7
billion) of private banking assets under management in five
years and advise initial public offerings.  Brazilian banks earn an average profit margin of
15 percent, compared with 7.8 percent for U.S. lenders,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The Brazilian financial system in all of its segments --
whether big banks, medium or small -- is well-capitalized and
well provisioned,” said Meirelles. “It’s a system that has
favorable and very benign liquidity conditions. Consequently,
there is nothing on the radar that can signal any type of
problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  