-- 
Buy Canadian Dollar Against Yen on Interest-Rate Outlook, Nomura Advises

-- B y   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-05-25T02:09:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/buy-canadian-dollar-against-yen-on-interest-rate-outlook-nomura-advises.html
Investors should buy the Canadian
dollar against the yen, betting the Bank of Canada will raise
 interest rates  this year and Japan’s trade situation will weaken,
Nomura Holdings Inc. said.  Canada’s currency has strengthened 3.1 percent versus
Japan’s this year as economists forecast the North American
nation’s central bank will increase rates to 1.75 percent from 1
percent by Dec. 31. The  Bank of Japan  has kept its key rate near
zero after a March 11 earthquake and tsunami sent the economy
into its third recession in a decade.  “We have been accumulating yen shorts in recent weeks, and
we are adding long Canadian dollar-yen exposure, in order to
broaden yen shorts further,”  Jens Nordvig , global head of G-10
currency strategy in  New York  at Japan’s largest brokerage,
wrote in an e-mail to Bloomberg. A short position is a bet an
asset will decline.  Nomura recommends buying  Canada ’s dollar at around 83.65
yen, with a target of between 87 and 88 and a stop-loss order at
82. A stop loss is an automatic instruction to exit a trade if a
bet goes the wrong way.  The Canadian dollar, known as the loonie for the aquatic
bird on the C$1 coin, traded at 83.78 yen as of 11:04 a.m. in
Tokyo, having strengthened 1.7 percent since falling to a six-
week low of 82.32 yen on May 5.  Economists say a report today will show Canadian  house
prices  rose for a fourth month in March. The Teranet-National
Bank Composite House Price Index climbed 0.2 percent after a 0.1
percent increase in February, according to a Bloomberg survey.  The  Bank of Canada  next meets to review borrowing costs on
May 31. Policy makers last increased rates on Sept. 8.  Japan’s gross domestic product contracted an annualized 3.7
percent in the three months through March, following a 3 percent
drop in the previous quarter, the Cabinet Office said May 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  