-- 
Cairn India Profit Surges to Record on Higher Oil Output, Price

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-05-25T11:32:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/cairn-india-profit-surges-to-record-on-higher-oil-output-price.html
Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR) , the energy explorer
that  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  plans to acquire, posted a 10-fold
increase in fourth-quarter profit, beating analyst estimates
after crude oil production and prices rose.  Net income, including that of units, climbed to a record
24.6 billion rupees ($543 million) in the three months ended
March 31 from 2.45 billion rupees a year earlier, the company
based in Gurgaon near New Delhi said in a statement to the
Bombay Stock Exchange today. The average profit estimate of 20
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 23 billion rupees.  Cairn  India  sells oil at rates linked to market prices and
gained from crude’s 9 percent increase this year. The unit of
U.K.-based  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  expects the three fields in
Rajasthan state, India’s largest onshore block, to produce
240,000 barrels a day compared with 125,000 barrels a day
currently from one producing field.  “Production and price drove earnings to a record,” said
Deepak Darisi, a Mumbai-based analyst with LKP Shares &
Securities Ltd., which advises investors to buy the stock.
Darisi has a share price target of 392 rupees.  Cairn India has gained 1.6 percent this year compared with
a 13 percent drop in the benchmark Sensitive Index. The stock
was unchanged at 338.10 rupees at the close in Mumbai, before
the earnings were announced.  Production started from the Mangala field in Rajasthan in
August 2009 and the oil is sold to customers including Indian
Oil Corp. and  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  The explorer is awaiting
approval from a panel, which includes representatives from the
regulator and the government, to increase production to 150,000
barrels a day.  Oil Prices   Crude oil in  New York  climbed 20 percent to an average of
$94.6 a barrel in the three months ended March 31 from a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prices
averaged $98.89 a barrel this year and reached a high of $113.93
on April 29.  The parent company plans to sell a 40 percent stake in
Cairn India to billionaire Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta Resources Plc
and is awaiting approval from India’s government for the
transaction. Vedanta will pay $9.4 billion to acquire a majority
holding in  Cairn India , including 8.1 percent from investors in
an open offer and a 10.4 percent stake from Malaysia’s Petronas
International Corp.  Vedanta’s acquisition proposal, made in August, was
referred to a group of ministers to consider the view of state-
owned Oil & Natural Gas Corp., Cairn India’s partner in
Rajasthan. ONGC says royalty payments should be added to the
project cost and recovered from sales.  “The overhang continues to be the delay in the government
approval for the deal with Vedanta,” said Darisi. “Once that
is done, Cairn will probably get permission to increase oil
production further.”  ONGC, India’s biggest energy explorer, owns 30 percent in
the Rajasthan block and pays royalty on the entire output under
a contract signed by the government 15 years ago to attract
foreign investors before the auction of oil blocks started in
1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 