-- 
California Pizza Kitchen Agrees to $470 Million Offer From Golden Gate

-- B y   M a t t h e w   T o w n s e n d   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-05-25T20:04:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/california-pizza-kitchen-agrees-to-470-million-offer-from-golden-gate.html
California Pizza Kitchen Inc. (CPKI) ,
operator of the restaurant chain of the same name, agreed to a
$470 million takeover by Golden Gate Capital Corp., more than a
year after beginning a search for a suitor.  The per-share price is $18.50, the companies said today.
That’s 11 percent more than yesterday’s close. Golden Gate is
paying about 7.7 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, matching the median of 5
restaurant takeovers over the past year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Los Angeles-based pizza chain began reviewing strategic
options in February 2010 with Moelis & Co. Co-Chief Executive
Officers Richard Rosenfield and Larry Flax, who founded the
chain more than 25 years ago, have sought to revive sales after
five straight quarterly declines.  “ Golden Gate  is going to make them more aggressive,” said
Bill Kavaler, senior special situations analyst at Oscar Gruss &
Son Inc. in  New York .  Clinton Group Inc., which owns more than 5 percent of
California Pizza, said it’s proposing alternatives to the deal,
including California Pizza taking on more debt and using the
cash to buy back shares at $19.50 or more. The New York-based
hedge-fund manager is run by George Hall.  California Pizza rose $1.76, or 11 percent, to $18.47 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares
had fallen 3.3 percent this year before today.  Golden Gate’s Investments  Golden Gate has made investments in  restaurant chains 
including Romano’s Macaroni Grill in 2008 and On the Border
Mexican Grill in March 2010. Sarah Grover, a spokeswoman for
California Pizza, declined to comment, as did Barry O’Sullivan,
a spokesman for San Francisco-based Golden Gate.  The transaction should be completed in the third quarter.
There have been almost 60 restaurant transactions globally in
the past year, Bloomberg data show. The largest of these was the
$3.9 billion acquisition of fast-food chain Burger King Holdings
Inc. in October.  California Pizza’s revenue declined less than 1 percent to
$156 million in the quarter ended April 3. The company owns 205
of its locations with the remaining run by franchisees in
countries including  China ,  Japan  and  Mexico .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  