-- 
California’s Brown Lacks Funding for ‘Historic’ Prisoner Shift

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-05-25T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/california-s-brown-lacks-funding-for-historic-prisoner-shift.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown ’s
solution to prison overcrowding relies on ankle bracelets and
other alternatives to traditional incarceration that haven’t
been funded, law enforcement officials said.  Since introducing his budget in January, the 73-year-old
Democrat has championed what he called a  “vast and historic” 
realignment that would cut state spending, and inmate numbers,
by handing parole violators and low-level offenders to county
jailers and probation officers.  Brown’s plan was made more urgent when the U.S. Supreme
Court ruled May 23 that the nation’s most populous state had to
take 33,000 inmates out of prisons because overcrowding amounted
to cruel and unusual punishment, according to Justice  Anthony Kennedy ’s majority  opinion .  “What’s going to happen to this tsunami of inmates?”
Merced County  Sheriff Mark Pazin  said in a telephone interview.
“Everything’s in flux.”  The governor hasn’t persuaded lawmakers to sign off on
funding for the inmate shift and many county jails are already
at capacity and releasing prisoners early, said Pazin.  Los Angeles County District Attorney Steve Cooley said the
court’s decision means “thousands of convicted felons will be
on the streets with minimal supervision.”  Kent Scheidegger, legal director of the Criminal Justice
Legal Foundation, a nonprofit Sacramento-based organization that
advocates for victims rights, said prior experiments with
prisoner releases and rehabilitation programs have failed.  ‘Increased Crime’  “I don’t have any confidence these kind of reductions can
be achieved,” Scheidegger said in a telephone interview. “They
are going to result in increased crime.”  Brown urged lawmakers to support his plan to extend
temporary tax increases to fund the prisoner shift, saying the
“vast majority” of county sheriffs and probation officials
believe it can be accomplished safely and efficiently.  “That’s why we need the money,” he said yesterday at a
press conference in  Sacramento .  The governor’s plea came the same day as state Attorney
General Kamala Harris released updated figures showing the
homicide rate in the state fell last year to the lowest level
since 1966. Violent and property crimes also declined.  California’s prisons have almost twice as many inmates as
they are designed to accommodate, or about 175 percent of
capacity, according to the  Corrections and Rehabilitation
Department .  Parole Violations  About 55,000 inmates a year enter the prison system for 
violating parole in some way, typically missing alcohol 
counseling meetings, taking drugs or consorting with people 
they weren’t supposed to be with, according to Oscar Hidalgo, 
a department spokesman.  “We end up with prisoners serving less than four months,”
Hidalgo said. “You have this incredible churn of people.”  Los Angeles  County Sheriff Lee Baca, a supporter of the
governor’s realignment plan, said in a Jan. 27 interview that
local authorities can reduce the average 70 percent recidivism
rate through programs such as drug treatment, education and
mental-health counseling.  Parolees also may be monitored at home with electronic
 ankle bracelets  that reduce the need for jail space, he said.  “Correctional science has come a really long way on what
works on what offenders,” said Nick Warner, legislative
director for the  California State Sheriffs’ Association  in
Sacramento. “Unfortunately, we’re learning this at the same
time budgets are going through the floor.”  Releasing Early  County jails including those in  Los Angeles  and Fresno have
been releasing prisoners early because of budget cuts and court
orders to reduce crowding.  Scott Jones, second-in-command of the  Fresno County
Sheriff’s Office , said his department is under a federal order
to release prisoners when capacity reaches 100 percent,
resulting in criminals such as habitual car thieves being let
out. Yet nearly half of the available floors in the jail are
closed due to budget cuts, Jones said.  “We haven’t hired a deputy sheriff or correctional officer
in three years,” he said. “If they send money, maybe we can
hire one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  