-- 
Canada Natural Gas Gains as Demand Rises From U.S. Power Plants

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-05-25T21:17:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/canada-natural-gas-gains-as-demand-rises-from-u-s-power-plants.html
Canadian natural gas prices rose as
forecasts of higher cooling needs in the U.S. Northeast for the
rest of the month signaled increased demand for the fuel from
 power plants .  Cooling demand in New York and  Washington  will be more than
twice normal levels until at least June 1, according to Belton,
Missouri-based forecaster Weather Derivatives. Washington’s
forecast high is 86 degrees Fahrenheit (30 Celsius) today,
rising to 90 tomorrow, according MDA EarthSat Weather based in
Gaithersburg, Maryland. Power plants use 30 percent of U.S. gas
supplies.  “We’re getting into the cooling season and I think it’s
also a carryover from Monday’s announcement that a liquid
natural gas export terminal has been approved on the Gulf of
Mexico coast,” Peter Linder, investment manager at DeltaOne
Capital Partners in Calgary, said in a telephone interview.  Alberta  gas for June delivery rose 4.75 cents, or 1.3
percent, to C$3.7675 per gigajoule ($3.65 per million British
thermal units) as of 4:25 p.m.  New York  time, according to  NGX, 
a Canadian Internet market. Gas traded on the exchange goes to
users in  Canada  and the U.S. and is priced on TransCanada
Corp.’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for June delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  gained 3.4 cents to settle at $4.379 per million Btu.  Alberta System  Volume on  TransCanada’s  Alberta system, which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.9 billion cubic
feet as of 4 p.m. in New York, 451 million below its target
level.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.8 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the  Chicago  area, the
daily flow rate was 1.8 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 1.48 billion cubic feet. The system was
forecast to carry 1.42 billion cubic feet today, about 49
percent of its capacity of 2.9 billion.  Gas at the Alliance Pipeline delivery point near Chicago
fell 3.02 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $4.4674 per million Btu on
the  Intercontinental Exchange . Alliance is an express line that
can carry 1.5 billion cubic feet a day to the Midwest from
western Canada.  At the Kingsgate point on the border of Idaho and British
Columbia, gas declined 0.07 cent to $4.1193 per million Btu,
according to ICE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 