-- 
Canada’s Flaherty Says He Will Reintroduce Government Fiscal Plan June 6

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-05-25T16:26:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/canada-s-flaherty-says-he-will-reintroduce-government-fiscal-plan-june-6.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he will present a budget on June 6 that will be
similar to the one he presented in March, and said he will seek
to eliminate the country’s deficit in the fiscal year that
begins April 2014, a year earlier than previously forecast.  The budget will contain all the measures that were in the
March 22 proposal, including C$7.6 billion ($7.8 billion) in new
spending and tax credits, Flaherty told reporters in Ottawa. It
will also include a payment to  Quebec  in compensation for that
province harmonizing its provincial  sales tax  with a federal
levy, he said.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s  Conservative Party  won a
majority government on May 2 after a campaign focused on
creating a stable economic recovery, spending restraint and a
promise to eliminate the deficit. While Flaherty’s March 22
budget forecast a surplus in the 2015-2016 fiscal year, the
government said its spending reductions would let it balance the
books one year earlier.  “The savings from the strategic and operating review will
not be recorded in the budget 2011, but reported on and recorded
in budget 2012 and future budgets thereafter,” Flaherty told
reporters outside the House of Commons.  The Conservative’s election  platform  promised a review of
 government spending  that would find C$4 billion in annual
savings.  Expensive Pledge  The most expensive Conservative pledge during the campaign
was a measure that would let families with children under 18
split up to C$50,000 in income for tax purposes. It would come
into effect in 2014 and cost C$4 billion through March 2016.  The Conservative platform also budgeted C$2.2 billion in
compensation to Quebec for harmonizing its sales tax with the
federal government.  Flaherty said he will meet with private-sector economists
in the next week to help him set out economic projections for
the budget.  “We haven’t written that part yet, that’ll be one of the
tweaks, one of the adjustments we will do,” Flaherty said. “I
think we’re quite close to where we were in March,” he said,
adding that “if some adjustment is warranted, we’ll do that.”  Economists surveyed by the department for the March budget
raised their 2011 growth forecasts to 2.8 percent from 2 percent
in October. Nominal GDP was forecast to grow by 5.8 percent in
2011, up from an October forecast of 4.6 percent.  Budget Plans  The March budget proposal also outlined plans for a program
that benefits homeowners who carry out energy-saving
improvements, and a C$2,000 tax credit for people taking care of
infirm dependent relatives.  Flaherty also said today that both French Finance Minister
 Christine Lagarde  and Mexican central banker Agustin Carstens
are “strong, qualified” candidates to replace International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn . He said
the selection process should be “open, merit-based and
transparent.”  Asked if he would support the candidacy of Bank of  Canada 
Governor  Mark Carney  for the IMF job, Flaherty said “Carney is
doing a very good job as the governor of the  Bank of Canada .”  A Canadian government official told Bloomberg News May 19
that the IMF will likely name another European as its next
leader, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he isn’t
authorized to discuss the subject publicly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 