-- 
Canadian Dollar Pares Loss as Crude Oil Advances, Reviving Demand for Risk

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-05-25T21:15:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/canadian-dollar-weakens-to-lowest-level-since-march-as-crude-oil-declines.html
Canada ’s dollar pared its loss after
touching its lowest level since March as crude oil erased a
decline, reviving demand for higher-yielding assets.  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, got a boost as the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent after earlier falling by the
same amount. The Canadian dollar was headed for a fourth weekly
loss, dropping 0.4 percent since May 20.  “The market is starting to look a little bit better pro-
risk,” said  Steve Butler , director of foreign-exchange trading
in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit.
“Dollar-Canada is turning around with everything else.”  The currency dropped 0.1 percent to 97.74 cents versus the
 U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with 97.67 yesterday,
after touching 98.16, the weakest level since March 28. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0231.  Canada sold C$3 billion ($3.1 billion) of three-year bonds
today, drawing an average yield of 2.037 percent. The government
received bids of C$8.3 billion for the 2.25 percent securities
maturing in August 2014, according to a statement on the  Bank of
Canada ’s website.  The current three-year bond yield decreased two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.91 percent. The 2 percent
security maturing in March 2014 increased 6 cents to C$100.25.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, gained 1.6
percent to $101.18 a barrel in  New York  after earlier decreasing
as much as 1.4 percent. The MSCI World Index of equities rose
0.3 percent after falling as much as 0.4 percent.  Slowing Growth  The loonie touched the lowest level in almost two months
today on signs of slowing economic growth and reduced
speculation that the Bank of Canada will resume increasing
borrowing costs.  “As a result of the weak data and low expectations for any
change whatsoever in the Bank of Canada, you’re definitely
seeing this weigh on the Canadian dollar,” said  John Curran , a
senior vice president in Toronto at CanadianForex Ltd., an
online foreign-exchange dealer.  Canada’s inflation slowed last month more than economists
forecast, and retail sales stalled in March, according to
economic reports last week, adding to speculation the Bank of
Canada won’t raise its target rate for overnight lending between
banks at its May 31 meeting.  The central bank will leave its benchmark lending rate
unchanged at 1 percent, according to Curran, where it has been
since September.  Investors should buy the Canadian dollar against the yen on
speculation the Bank of Canada will raise  interest rates  this
year, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  Nomura on Loonie  “We have been accumulating yen shorts in recent weeks, and
we are adding long Canadian dollar-yen exposure, in order to
broaden yen shorts further,”  Jens Nordvig , global head of G-10
currency strategy at Nomura in New York, said via e-mail. A
short position is a bet an asset will decline.  Nomura recommends buying Canada’s dollar at about 83.65
yen, with a target of 87 to 88 and a stop-loss order at 82. A
stop loss is an automatic instruction to exit a trade if a bet
goes the wrong way.  Canada’s dollar was little changed at 83.87 yen, compared
with 83.91 yesterday.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he will present
a budget on June 6 that will contain all the measures that were
in the March 22 proposal, including C$7.6 billion in new
spending and tax credits, and said he will seek to eliminate the
country’s deficit in the fiscal year that begins April 2014, a
year earlier than previously forecast. Flaherty spoke to
reporters in Ottawa.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  