-- 
Chelsea, Manchester City Given $65 Million Price Tag on Aguero: Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-05-25T10:07:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/chelsea-manchester-city-given-65-million-price-tag-on-aguero-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Aguero Price Tag  Atletico Madrid  has told likely bidders Chelsea and
Manchester City they can sign  Sergio Aguero  for 40 million
pounds ($65 million),  the Sun  reported.  The Argentine striker, 22, stated his wish to leave
Atletico two days ago. Real Madrid is also interested, the Sun
added.  Gunner Benzema?  Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has dropped a “major hint”
he may try to sign Real Madrid striker Karim Benzema, the  Daily
Mirror  reported.  He said a move for the player “doesn’t seem impossible,”
even though the Mirror said it would be a major change in his
transfer policy.  Chelsea Overhaul  Chelsea is moving ahead with an overhaul of the playing
staff, with up to five players leaving and five arriving,  the
Independent  reported.  While the Blues may offer  Didier Drogba  a contract
extension,  Nicolas Anelka  and Yuri Zhirkov may be among those on
the way out. Chelsea is currently without a manager after Carlo Ancelotti’s exit.  Gomes for PSV?  Goalkeeper Heurelho Gomes’s future at Tottenham is in doubt
after he told PSV Eindhoven he wants to go back to the Dutch
team, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Gomes, who joined Spurs three years ago, has had a
“mixed” season in this campaign, making several blunders
alongside good performances, the newspaper added.  Sanchez Shock  Mexican legend Hugo Sanchez is the “shock name in the
frame” to be Barnsley’s new manager,  the Mirror  reported.  Barnsley is stunned by the interest in the job shown by the
former Real Madrid striker, who’s keen to come to  England , the
newspaper said. Rochdale’s Keith Hill is another option, the
Mirror added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 