-- 
China Lures Crude From U.S. as Colombia’s Ecopetrol Targets Asia Oil Sales

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-05-26T20:51:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/china-luring-crude-from-u-s-as-ecopetrol-targets-asia-for-surge-in-output.html
Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) , the Colombian oil
producer which expects to more than double output this decade,
said it plans to ship a greater share of its crude to Asia as
growing demand in China competes for supplies with the U.S.  The company may no longer ship the majority of its crude to
the U.S. in 10 years because Asia sales will be more profitable,
Chief Executive Officer  Javier Gutierrez  said yesterday in an
interview in Bogota. A pipeline the company is weighing that
would carry oil to a new port on the Pacific coast to supply
Asian refineries may also attract Chinese investment, he said.  “We are opening markets in the East --  China  and  India  are
starting to be significant for us,” Gutierrez said. Asian
“markets will keep growing a lot,” he said.  China is buying oil assets in Latin America and helping
finance exploration at companies such as  Brazil ’s  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  to meet rising demand as its economy surges. The
U.S. is also seeking new sources of crude as traditional
suppliers such as Mexico and  Venezuela  struggle to maintain
output. U.S. President  Barack Obama  said in March that the U.S.
wanted to become one of Brazil’s “best customers” for oil.  The Bogota-based company plans to boost output to 1.3
million barrels per day in 2020 as it taps reserves in Colombia,
the U.S. Gulf of  Mexico ,  Peru  and Brazil through exploration and
asset purchases. Ecopetrol, which had average output of about
615,900 barrels per day last year, plans to spend about $80
billion over the next 10 years to reach its goals, he said.  Investment Plan  Ecopetrol’s investment plan includes construction of the
$4.2 billion Bicentennial pipeline, which will carry crude from
fields in eastern Colombia to the Caribbean coast.  The company will need to build infrastructure to meet its
goal of boosting exports because fuel transportation capacity
has lagged gains in its production, Mauricio Restrepo, an
analyst at Medellin-based brokerage Bolsa & Renta, said.  “There is more than enough oil -- what is lacking is a way
to carry it,” Restrepo said in a telephone interview.  China, the world’s largest energy consumer, is snapping up
more Colombian coal and crude after the Asian economy expanded
9.7 percent in the first quarter. China Petroleum Corp., known
as Sinopec, also agreed to pay $7.1 billion for a 40 percent
stake in Repsol YPF’s Brazilian unit in October as part of asset
purchases the company made throughout  Latin America  last year.  Third-Largest Producer  Colombia,  South America ’s third-largest crude producer, may
more than double output in 2020 to 2 million barrels per day, as
Ecopetrol and other companies increase production, Gutierrez
said. Improved security after the government repelled guerrilla
groups has helped lure investors including billionaires Eike Batista and  Carlos Slim  to the nation’s energy reserves.  This year, Ecopetrol has had to repair pipelines in eastern
and southern Colombia after guerrilla sabotage. Attacks by rebel
groups on Colombian pipelines, roadways and bridges fell to 76
in 2009 from more than 800 in 2002, according to the government.  To fund expansion, Ecopetrol plans to sell shares for the
first time since raising $2.7 billion in an initial public
offering in 2007.  The sale will take place this year “in principle,” with
the timing dependent on “market conditions,” Gutierrez said,
declining to provide further information on the sale.  Ecopetrol rose 20 pesos, or 0.5 percent, to 3,960 pesos in
Bogota trading. The stock has fallen 3.4 percent this year,
while  Colombia ’s benchmark Colcap index had dropped 3.9 percent
in the same period.  Ecopetrol Stake  Ecopetrol by law can sell as much as a 9.9 percent stake,
which at current prices is worth about $8.6 billion. Colombia’s
government said in March it will sell as much as 1.5 percent of
Ecopetrol at year-end as part of a plan to ultimately divest up
to 10 percent.  Colombia’s improved credit rating and greater security is
luring international companies, increasing the chance of new oil
discoveries, according to Gutierrez.  Carlos Slim’s Grupo Carso this year bought a stake in
Geoprocesados SA’s Tabasco Oil Co., which is exploring in
eastern Colombia. Batista’s OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA
said last year that it may begin production in 2012 in Colombia
after garnering exploration rights in a 2010 government auction.  The two billionaires “wouldn’t take the risk if they
didn’t see the opportunity of a return,” Gutierrez said.
“Colombia has awakened a lot of interest.”  100 Companies  Investment from more than 100 companies seeking oil
reserves in Colombia may trim Ecopetrol’s share of the nation’s
output to less than 50 percent over a decade from more than two-
thirds currently, even as its production jumps, Gutierrez said.  Crude oil for July delivery fell $1.09 to settle at $100.23
a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Prices have
increased 40 percent in the past year.  Oil in New York settled at $113.93 a barrel on April 29,
the highest since September 2008.  Standard & Poor’s  raised the nation’s foreign debt rating
one step on March 16 to BBB-, the lowest level of investment
grade. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings rate Colombia
one level below investment grade with a positive outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  