-- 
China Widens Lead Over U.S. in Renewable Energy Ranking by Ernst & Young

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-05-25T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/china-widens-lead-in-renewable-energy-ranking-by-ernst-young.html
China  widened its lead over the U.S.
as the most attractive country for renewable energy projects,
following its “greenest” five-year plan to date, Ernst & Young
LLP said.  China’s score out of 100 increased to 72 from 71 last
quarter, while the U.S. remained in second place at 67 points in
the consultant’s quarterly Renewable Energy Country
Attractiveness Index released today in an e-mailed statement.
 India  drew ahead of  Germany  to claim third spot.  “This is principally due to China diversifying its
renewables portfolio through an increased focus on offshore wind
and concentrated solar power,” Ernst & Young said in the
report. The group also cited new targets for renewable energy
set in March in China’s 12th five-year plan.  China took a lead in the wind and solar industries in
recent years, and last year, the government’s China Development
Bank Corp. agreed to lend 232 billion yuan ($35.7 billion) to
Chinese renewable companies. The UN’s top climate change
diplomat,  Christiana Figueres , in January said China will leave
“all of us in the dust” because of their commitment to win the
“green economy race.”  China in March published a five-year plan that included
 targets  to raise the share of non-fossil fuels in primary energy
consumption to 11.4 percent, cut the energy used per dollar of
economic output by 16 percent, and the carbon emitted per dollar
by 17 percent.  Ernst & Young assessed criteria including regulations,
planning barriers and access to capital, land and the
electricity grid. China took the lead last August for the first
time since the ranking started in 2003.  The March 11 tsunami that triggered a nuclear disaster in
 Japan  has also added impetus to renewables, and particularly
solar power in the past quarter, according to the report. Both
China and Japan have said they’ll build more solar  power plants 
in the wake of the disaster.  “The events in Japan will help move solar out of a niche
technology corner and into the mainstream of power generation
technologies,” Ernst & Young Energy and Environmental
Infrastructure Leader Ben Warren said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  