-- 
China’s 2.1 Million Cancer Deaths Spur Merck Investment in Beijing Biotech

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-25T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/china-s-cancer-deaths-spur-merck-investment-in-beijing-biotech.html
Cancer is worsening in  China , where
it causes an annual 2.1 million deaths. That’s luring overseas
researchers intent on meeting surging demand for treatments.  BeiGene Ltd. hired 20 U.S.-educated scientists from
companies including Johnson & Johnson and Merck & Co. to help
find new cancer medicines since it formed last July. It got
financial backing from Merck and is in talks with seven other
drugmakers and venture capital firms to raise $100 million to
$150 million, said John Oyler, its chief executive officer.  BeiGene is part of a vanguard of health-care startups in
the world’s most populous country. They are tapping government
incentives that promote research and innovation, while taking
advantage of the skills and knowledge of overseas-trained
Chinese. China’s  death toll  from cancer increased 5.6 percent
from 2008 to 2010, according to the  World Health Organization .  “We are starting to see some of the local companies take
up market position in relatively new and complex drug categories,
including oncology,” said Wang Jin, a Shanghai-based partner at
consulting company  McKinsey & Co.   The  cancer mortality  rate in China is about 144 per 100,000
people, according to the WHO in Geneva. That compares with 123
per 100,000 in the U.S., 135 in the U.K. and 76 in  India . Almost
one on five people in China will get a malignancy -- most likely
lung, stomach, liver, esophageal or colorectal cancer -- before
age 75, the WHO says.  $1.5 Billion Market  China’s cancer-drug market is worth more than  $1.5 billion ,
according to the IMS Institute for Healthcare Informatics.
Oncology is among the top five therapy classes in China, where
sales growth has exceeded 25 percent over the past five years,
the Parsippany, New Jersey-based research group said in July.  Biotechnology is among five key industries that China’s
government will promote during its 12th five-year plan spanning
2011 to 2015, according to a draft released March 5. The drive
has helped spawn companies such as  Cyagen Biosciences , located
in Science City on the outskirts of Guangzhou, and Suzhou-based
KeyBay Biotechnology.  Closely held BeiGene, based in Beijing, is studying drug
candidates passed over by bigger companies to identify new
products to fight China’s most common cancer-killers.  “We want to become the  Genentech  of China,” said Oyler,
43, referring to the South San Francisco-based developer of the
cancer drug Avastin that  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  bought for $46.8
billion in 2009.  Of BeiGene’s 60-plus scientists, a third were born in China
and received a U.S. education or worked at an American or
European pharmaceutical company, Oyler said. The company plans
to hire 140 scientists in 2011.  Merck, Glaxo  Its president, Peter Ho, a medical doctor, graduated from
 Yale University  before working in cancer-drug development at
Johnson & Johnson and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)  Chief Scientific
Officer Pearl Huang has a PhD in molecular biology from
 Princeton University  and led research groups at Merck and Glaxo.
Chief Medical Officer George Chen has an MBA from the  University
of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School, and held senior posts at Glaxo,
Eli Lilly & Co.,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and Sanofi.  Wang Xiaodong, a naturalized U.S. citizen who founded
BeiGene with Oyler, said he gave up posts at the U.S.-based
Howard Hughes Medical Institute and a professorship at the
University of Texas-Southwestern to return to  China  in 2003. He
helped the Chinese government establish and expand the
government-funded  National Institute of Biological Sciences ,
which now has 800 researchers.  “I was in the U.S. for 26 years and built my entire
academic career there,” said Wang, 48, who has remained the
Beijing institute’s director, in an interview. “The most innate
motivation coming back is to be part of what’s happening in
China, which by any stretch of imagination is the most dramatic
event in human history in the last 30 years.”  Sophisticated Science  More Chinese scientists are returning from abroad to work
in China, attracted by more sophisticated research, including
the development of biotechnology that make drugs from proteins
produced by living cells, said McKinsey’s Wang. Previously,
pharmaceutical jobs in China were mainly in sales and marketing,
she said.  Wang Xiaodong and Oyler’s own money provided initial
financing for BeiGene. Oyler declined to say how much  Whitehouse
Station , New Jersey-based Merck has invested, adding that the
backing may lead to partnership deals.  “We are working together to evaluate areas of potential
collaboration,” Dong Ruiping, Merck’s head of emerging markets
research and development, said in an e-mailed statement about
the BeiGene investment. He declined to disclose the amount.  BeiGene is testing five drug candidates. Two aim to improve
on treatments already on the market, while the others use a
novel mechanism of action to target a range of tumor types,
Oyler said, declining to elaborate.  The plan is to test the most promising treatments in early-
and mid-stage trials, usually involving hundreds of patients,
Oyler said. Those that are successful may be sold back to larger
drugmakers or co-developed with a partner that can finance late-
stage studies typically involving thousands of patients.  -- Daryl Loo. Editors: Jason Gale, Bret Okeson
 