-- 
China’s Shanghai Composite Falls 10% From This Year’s High

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-25T07:26:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/china-s-stocks-decline-for-fifth-day-led-by-financial-shares.html
China’s stocks fell for a fifth day,
with the benchmark index sliding 10 percent from this year’s
high, on concerns the government will intensify curbs on the
 property market  and tighter monetary policies may hurt earnings.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. and China
Construction Bank Corp. led declines among lenders after
 Standard & Poor’s  said policy tightening may spur a jump in
credit losses and weaken profitability. China Vanke Co., the
nation’s biggest developer, slid to the lowest in eight months
after Shanghai Securities News reported China will curb
speculative demand for homes. PetroChina Co., the largest energy
company, rose 1.7 percent on higher  oil prices .  “Monetary policies and property tightening will be in
place in the foreseeable future,” said Wei Wei, an analyst at
West China Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Though the external
environment is improving, there’s not much room for stocks to
move because of domestic tightening policies.”  The  Shanghai  Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, dropped 25.32 points, or 0.9 percent,
to 2,741.74 at the 3 p.m. close, the lowest close since Jan. 26.
It has fallen 10 percent from this year’s high set on April 18,
a sign analysts say the market has entered a correction. The  CSI
300 Index (SHSZ300)  retreated 1.2 percent to 2,990.34.  The Shanghai gauge erased this year’s advance of as much as
8.9 percent on May 23 after a preliminary report showed
manufacturing may slow this month. The central bank has raised
the reserve-requirement ratio for banks 11 times and boosted
rates four times since the start of 2010 to cool inflation,
which has exceeded the government target each month this year.  Banks Outlook  ICBC, the nation’s biggest listed lender, lost 1.8 percent
to 4.36 yuan. Construction Bank, the second biggest, slid 1.2
percent to 4.91 yuan.  Bank of China Ltd. (601988) , the third largest,
fell 0.9 percent to 3.28 yuan.  Non-performing loans by Chinese banks could reach 5 percent
to 10 percent of total advances in three years if “lending
rates rise significantly and the government support for project
loans turns out to be negligible,” S&P said in a report today.  “Inflation and possible economic slowdown stemming from
tightening measures could lead to a spike in credit losses over
the next two to three years,” said Qiang Liao, an analyst at
the rating company.  China will curb speculative demand for homes and maintain
basically stable real estate prices to control the property
market, Shanghai Securities News reported today, citing Ni Hong,
director of the housing reform and development department of the
Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development.  Vanke slid 2 percent to 7.87 yuan, the lowest close since
Sept. 29. Poly Real Estate Group Co., the second biggest,
retreated 0.8 percent to 9.84 yuan. China Merchants Property
Development Co. lost 1.5 percent to 17.30 yuan.  China ‘Bubble’  China needs to continue tightening monetary policy as
excess liquidity remains high with capital inflows and
expansionary fiscal policy exacerbating the situation, according
to  Societe Generale .  The central bank may raise  interest rates  twice more this
year and increase lenders’ reserve-rate requirements three more
times, Societe Generale said in a report.  Jim Chanos , the hedge-fund manager known for predicting
Enron Corp.’s 2001 collapse, said investors concerned that U.S.
technology stocks such as LinkedIn Corp. are overvalued should
turn their attention to China.  The investor said his “dramatic” bet against Chinese real
estate may not be sufficient. While LinkedIn, the first social-
media company to go public in the U.S., traded as high as 31
times sales last week, overvaluation is more widespread in
China, he said. “The bubble is really on the other side of the
world,” he said in  New York . “What my team found, they
actually came back saying we’re not bearish enough,” he said.  Technical Analysis   The Shanghai Composite may fall a further 4 percent from
yesterday’s close before finding “solid support” at the 2,655
level, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  Support will hold at that level as it’s close to this
year’s intraday low of 2,661.45 set on Jan. 25,  Kenneth Chan , a
quantitative analyst at Nomura, said in e-mailed comments.  The gauge may slide to 2,100 if it breaks out of the next
“key” support level of 2,680, according to Chart Partners
Group Ltd. “There will be bear bounces along the way but I have
held a bearish short-sell view,” said  Thomas Schroeder ,
Bangkok-based managing director at Chart Partners.  PetroChina gained 1.7 percent to 10.84 yuan. Yanzhou Coal
Mining Co.,  China ’s fourth-biggest coal miner, rose 0.3 percent
to 32.22 yuan.  Crude oil for July delivery jumped 1.9 percent to $99.59 a
barrel in New York yesterday, the highest settlement since May
18. The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six industrial
metals including copper and aluminum increased 1.2 percent
yesterday. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said it’s turning “more
bullish” on raw materials.  --Zhang Shidong. Editor: Allen Wan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  