-- 
China Steel Output May Fall From June on Power Cuts, Platou Says

-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 
2011-05-25T15:06:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/china-steel-output-may-fall-from-june-on-power-cuts-platou-says.html
Steel production in  China  may fall
from next month as the world’s biggest producer of the metal
rations power, forcing mills to curb output, RS Platou Markets
AS said.  Regions served by the State Grid Corp. of China, the
nation’s dominant power distributor, may face a shortfall of 30
gigawatts this summer, the state-controlled company said in a
statement on its  website  dated yesterday. It will further ration
supplies in the summer as a drought looms over what may be the
country’s worst electricity shortage on record.  “Thousands of small mills will face the challenge of power
shortages because the government will first guarantee
electricity to residential users,” Frode Morkedal, a Platou
analyst in Oslo, said in a note e-mailed today. Steel production
in the country may peak this month and start to drop from June,
he said.  The shortage may reach 35 gigawatts, or 3.7 percent of the
country’s capacity last year, according to a Deutsche Bank AG
report on May 20. Thirty-five gigawatts is enough to supply 35
million U.S. households on average.  China’s dry spell and reduced hydropower output are
intensifying an electricity shortage caused by a combination of
rising demand and reduced generation capacity. Some  power plants 
have cut production or even shut, crippled by increased coal
prices and government caps on electricity tariffs.  Coal prices at China’s Qinhuangdao port have increased
about 15 percent this year, according to data from industry
researcher IHS McCloskey, based in Petersfield,  England .  China made about 47 percent of the world’s crude steel in
April, according to the World Steel Association. In the first
four months of this year it produced 232.6 million metric tons
of steel, 9.1 percent more than the same period in 2010,
according to the China Economic Information Network.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alistair Holloway in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  