-- 
Chojna Says Polish Economy May Limit Scope for Rate Increases

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-05-25T06:47:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/chojna-says-polish-economy-may-limit-scope-for-rate-increases.html
The Polish central bank’s scope for
further interest-rate increases may be limited by slowing
economic growth over the next few quarters, said Elzbieta Chojna-Duch, a member of the Monetary Policy Council.  She spoke in a May 23 interview in Warsaw.  “Economic growth of 4 percent or faster may be difficult
to achieve. Corporate borrowing data suggest that there’s a slim
chance of the investment boom the government was counting on in
its GDP forecast. The pace of hiring and the slow decline in the
 unemployment rate  indicate that companies remain cautious about
the outlook for their core markets.  “Companies need economic and political stability, and the
crisis in the  euro zone  is preventing that. Economic growth will
probably slow on an annual basis over the next few quarters,
which should limit the scope of cumulative rate increases needed
to stabilize inflation at the target level in the medium term.  “Higher interest rates certainly won’t encourage lending
or help reduce unemployment. Our goal is to bring inflation back
to the target, but we can’t ignore conditions in  Poland  and the
global economy. I’m worried about domestic and European
investment spending, which is going to determine the pace and
sustainability of the recovery.”  “Excessive monetary-policy tightening won’t help change
the trend” of weak investments “and we can see that other
European central banks aren’t rushing to combat inflation with
higher  interest rates , even though they’re under severe
pressure. Demand is recovering, but capacity utilization is
still too low to allow for optimism about the economic outlook.  Limited by Context  “This context limits our ability to use interest rates
because the forces at work are too powerful. Rate increases
could prove ineffective and risk choking off business activity.
Our dilemma is whether to continue the tightening cycle and if
we do, when and at what level to end it so that we don’t damage
economic growth.  “Inflation will definitely slow. While we know that price
growth can be expected in the summer months, the annual
inflation rate will probably top out at 4.7 percent in May or
June and then start to decline until it returns to the target
within our policy horizon.  “It’s possible the rate could fall to the vicinity of 3
percent by the end of this year due to the statistical base
effect and as the external supply shocks of food and energy
prices fade. I don’t see any new threats to  price stability .  `Supply Factors'  “Inflation is being driven by supply factors, and that’s
difficult to fight with interest rates. While it’s doubtful our
decisions have any impact abroad, it’s obvious they influence
the domestic demand created by loans and investment. For me, the
keys will be what decisions are taken by the  European Central
Bank , the global situation and our new inflation and GDP
projections.  “The purpose of our rate increases to date was to curb
inflation expectations and head off second-round effects. I
don’t see any breeding grounds for inflationary pressure in the
economy, and the risk of second-round effects is small with the
unemployment rate at current levels.  “The next inflation projection prepared by the central
bank staff will be important in determining whether we should
end the current tightening cycle and shift to a neutral
monetary-policy stance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  