-- 
Christie Rebuffed by N.J. Court Over School Aid

-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-05-25T04:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/christie-rebuffed-by-n-j-court-over-school-aid.html
Chris Christie’s 16-month campaign to
control  New Jersey  spending has been rebuffed by the state’s
highest court, which objected to school-aid reductions the
Republican governor made to balance his first budget.  The New Jersey Supreme Court, in a 3-2 decision yesterday,
ordered Christie to direct $500 million to the state’s poorest
school districts for the fiscal year that starts July 1. The
case involved the governor’s decision last year to cancel $1.6
billion anticipated by the 31 districts, whose students largely
are poor, minority and low-achieving on standardized tests.  Christie, a former U.S. attorney for New Jersey who
successfully prosecuted more than 100 corrupt public officials,
said he won’t challenge the justices. He also told a town-hall
meeting yesterday in  Cherry Hill  that he won’t raise taxes to
comply with the order.  “This is the biggest setback he’s had,” said  Patrick
Murray , director of the Monmouth University Polling  Institute  in
 West Long Branch , New Jersey. “That was a big check on the
governor. And by accepting this, he’s accepted that going
forward he’s constrained by this court ruling.”  The result may have immediate consequences for Christie,
48, who has taken credit as the cost-cutting role model for
Republican governors across the country. Last week, on word that
New Jersey was due an estimated $500 million income-tax
windfall, he said he would increase property-tax rebates and
make payments to the state employee pension system.  ‘Inadequately Funded’  Now, the unanticipated revenue will go to “all
inadequately funded districts across New Jersey,” Senate
President  Stephen Sweeney , a Democrat from West Deptford, said
in a statement.  The Senate and Assembly are little more than a month from
the June 30 deadline to enact New Jersey’s fiscal 2012 spending
plan. Christie has proposed a $29.4 billion budget -- a figure
that may change should the U.S. government reject $300 million
in proposed Medicaid changes and force the state to repay $271
million for a canceled New York City commuter-train tunnel
beneath the  Hudson River .  The ruling yesterday coincided with the release of a survey
that found Christie’s unfavorable rating at its highest since
his January 2010 inauguration. Sixty percent of respondents said
the governor was doing a fair or poor job, compared with 55
percent surveyed last month by PublicMind, the polling institute
at Fairleigh Dickinson University in Madison, New Jersey.  ‘Speed Bump’  Benjamin Dworkin, director of the  Rebovich Institute  for
New Jersey Politics at  Rider University  in Lawrenceville, said
the court’s action was Christie’s first brush with a judiciary
influencing a state spending decision.  “This is a speed bump in the  Chris Christie  rollercoaster
to spend less money in New Jersey,” Dworkin said in a telephone
interview. “It’s not a full stop. It’s not going to shut down
the government. It’s a glitch.”  The decision -- which applies to 31 of 591 districts -- may
help strengthen Christie’s case with voters that education
funding must be equalized and that his schools overhaul is
necessary to improve education. The effort has included his call
to reduce pay and benefits for public-school teachers, prompting
the New Jersey Education Association to launch a multimillion-
dollar television, radio and billboard anti-Christie advertising
 campaign .  “This court’s decision, as strange as it may seem, is a
win for the Christie administration,” said  Peter Woolley ,
director of PublicMind. The 3-2 result “reflects the fact that
there is generally a consensus that the funding formula has to
change,” Woolley said.  ‘Very Happy’  The schools in the court case are collectively known as
Abbott  districts , a reference to one of the case’s original
litigants. In  Jersey City , one of the Abbotts, schools
Superintendent Charles T. Epps said the district “is very
happy” with the court directive.  “While we do not know how much additional aid the district
will receive in the future, we are hopeful that any future
calculation will address any disparities associated with the
school budget that may have negatively impacted the delivery of
educational services,” he said in an e-mail.  Barbara Keshishian, NJEA president, said the ruling was
welcome.  “While the decision does not restore the funding
previously lost by schools or immediately undo all the damage
caused by more than $1.3 billion in cuts, it begins the process
of restoring our schools to fiscal health and reaffirms our
state’s longstanding commitment to investing wisely in our
children’s future,” Keshishian said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in N.J. Statehouse at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in N.J. Statehouse at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  