-- 
Citigroup’s Chairman Parsons Says Financial Crises a Cultural Phenomenon

-- B y   J u d y   W o o d r u f f   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-05-25T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/citigroup-s-parsons-says-financial-crises-a-cultural-phenomenon.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chairman  Richard Parsons  said more financial crises will probably occur,
regardless of regulatory efforts, because people tend to
underestimate risk when pursuing profits.  “It’s something in our culture,” Parsons, 63, said in an
interview to air on Bloomberg Television’s “Conversations with
Judy Woodruff.” Crises are “borne out of the introduction of
some kind of new technology, or approach, and people’s desires
to sort of cash in on it and their willingness to believe that
it can’t happen again. It won’t happen again. It won’t happen to
me. It won’t happen this time.”  U.S. lawmakers last year passed the Dodd-Frank Act, the
most sweeping rewrite of financial regulations since the 1930s,
to avoid future crises after taxpayers were forced to prop up
lenders with an unprecedented bailout. Nobody can disagree with
the bill’s main goal of improving oversight and blocking some of
the largest firms from the riskiest practices, Parsons said.  “But can you stop people from being people? No,” he said.
“Can you absolutely sort of lock things up in a way that no one
can ever make these kinds of mistakes that we’ve been making,
you know, since time immemorial? I don’t think so.”  Parsons was chairman of New York-based Citigroup, the
third-largest U.S. lender, when souring home loans fueled more
than $29 billion in losses at the company in 2008 and 2009. The
firm got a $45 billion bailout, and taxpayers guaranteed more
than $300 billion of its troubled assets.  He previously led AOL  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , the media company
that formed when Internet-access provider America Online
acquired Time Warner in January 2001, around the height of the
Internet boom. Parsons became chief executive officer in 2002,
seeking to quell management and investor turmoil after the deal
with AOL led to record losses.  LinkedIn  LinkedIn Corp.’s initial public offering this month is
reminiscent of the technology heyday a decade ago, he said.
Shares of  Mountain View , California-based LinkedIn, the first
major U.S. social-media company to go public, have surged 112
percent since the sale last week, giving it a market value of
$9.1 billion. LinkedIn had net income of $15.4 million in 2010,
while sales more than doubled to $243 million.  “Remind you of anything about 10 or 12 years ago, AOL and
the whole dot-com thing, where you take these companies public
and overnight they would double and triple in value on no
revenues and no earnings?” Parsons said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Judy Woodruff  at   jwoodruff@newshour.org ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 