-- 
Clinton Urges OECD to Push Growth, Guide Emerging Economies

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-05-25T18:19:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/clinton-urges-oecd-to-push-growth-guide-emerging-economies.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
urged the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
to generate economic growth by embracing green energy, lowering
barriers to trade and focusing more intently on the development
of emerging economies.  Clinton is in Paris for events marking the 50th anniversary
of the 34-member OECD. The organization will endorse “a new
gold standard for how our companies should operate,” including
human rights, the top U.S. diplomat said.  When the group meets tomorrow, Clinton said she will
emphasize the need for member nations to share economic lessons
with emerging countries. Developing nations must work to
eliminate corruption, tax their elites and create regulations to
attract and protect foreign investment, Clinton said.  “Countries must be the authors of their own development,”
Clinton said, noting that the OECD is deepening its engagement
with the so-called BRIC countries  Brazil ,  China ,  India , as well
as  Indonesia  and  South Africa .  “We have the flexibility to reach out and raise standards
at the same time,” Clinton said of ties to these developing
nations. “We should use it.”  As Clinton discussed greater ties with these emerging
economies, she said the OECD had to develop guidelines for
dealing with state-owned and controlled businesses. Clinton
acknowledged that different countries will make different
decisions about how much of their economic activity to keep
under government control.  Fair Competition  “Whether they are owned by shareholders or states, all
companies should operate on a level playing field, consistent
with the principles of competitive neutrality,” Clinton said.  Groups at the meeting will discuss green-growth strategy
and tools, a framework for development and a “vision
statement” on the evolving international economic order,
emphasizing the need to expand ties with the BRIC countries.  The group also held a ceremony to welcome  Russia  as the
39th signatory to the OECD’s anti-bribery convention and a
member of the working  Group on Bribery in International Business
Transactions .  “Bribery interferes with trade, investment, and
development,” Clinton said. “It undermines good governance and
encourages greater corruption. And of course, it is morally
wrong -- and far too common.”  She encouraged Russia and other signatories to strengthen
their enforcement of foreign bribery laws.  Clinton and other leaders also held a signing ceremony to
endorse updated guidelines for multinational corporations.
Forty-two governments are signatories and the guidelines are the
only ones formally endorsed by governments, Clinton said.  Citing the way supply chains for valuable resources such as
diamonds can cause abuse and conflict, Clinton said the OECD
wanted to help companies recognize risks, act responsibly and
create strategies for potential problems before they erupt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Paris at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  