-- 
Coal India Profit Beats Estimates After Largest Producer Increases Prices

-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 
2011-05-26T05:17:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/coal-india-fourth-quarter-profit-beats-estimates-on-prices.html
Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s largest
producer of the fuel, posted profit that beat analysts’
estimates after joining mining companies in  China  in increasing
prices as demand surged in the fastest-growing major economies.  Net income in the three months ended March 31 was 42.2
billion rupees ($931 million) and sales were 150.2 billion
rupees, Chairman N.C. Jha said in Kolkata yesterday, without
providing year-earlier figures. The mean estimate of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a profit of 37.1 billion rupees.  Coal India plans to acquire mines overseas to meet local
demand as utilities build  power plants  to reduce blackouts and
help sustain annual economic growth of more than 8 percent.
Full-year profit rose 13 percent and earnings growth may slow as
higher inflation stokes demand for wage increases and limits the
state-owned company’s ability to raise prices.  “The coming quarters may be tough for Coal India,” said
 Niraj Shah , an analyst at Fortune Equity Brokers Ltd. in Mumbai.
“The company is set to increase wages and may not be able to
offset it through another price increase, considering the
inflation situation in the country.”  Coal India rose 2.4 percent to 386.35 rupees at 10:32 a.m.
in Mumbai trading. The earnings were announced after the market
closed yesterday. The stock, which was sold at 245 rupees apiece
in the IPO, has gained 23 percent this year compared with a 12
percent drop in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  Price Increase  The shares started trading on Nov. 4 after the government
raised 152 billion rupees by selling a 10 percent stake in Coal
 India  in the country’s largest initial public offering.  The increase in prices announced in February will boost
sales by 6.5 billion rupees in the year ended March 31 and 62
billion rupees in the current financial year, Coal India said in
a Feb. 28 statement to the stock exchange.  The company plans to boost production by 4.8 percent to 452
million metric tons in the current financial year, Jha said.  The miner, based in Kolkata, produced 431.3 million tons of
coal in the year ended March 31, unchanged from a year earlier,
according to a statement. The company missed last year’s output
target after curbs aimed at reducing pollution halted mining in
some areas.  Environmental restrictions and delayed land purchases may
cause a shortfall of 142 million tons of coal in India in the
year that started April 1, compared with an 83 million-ton gap
in the previous year, Coal Minister Sriprakash Jaiswal said on
Feb. 3.  Acquisition Plans  Coal India plans to acquire mines in  Australia ,  Indonesia 
and the U.S. The miner has carried forward 60 billion rupees for
overseas acquisitions after the amount wasn’t used in the year
ended March 31.  Profit for the year ended March 31 rose to 108.7 billion
rupees and sales climbed 13 percent to 502.3 billion rupees,
Coal India said in a statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange.  China Shenhua Energy Co., a unit of the country’s biggest
coal producer, and China Coal Energy Co., the nation’s second-
largest, posted profit gains in the three months ended March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  