-- 
Con Ed Fights Solar Rules in New York That It Profits From in New Jersey

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-05-25T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/con-ed-fights-solar-rules-in-new-york-that-it-profits-from-in-new-jersey.html
Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED) , owner of
 New York City ’s utility, is fighting legislation to boost demand
for solar power in the state while profiting from rules that
triggered a boom for the technology in  New Jersey .  Con Ed says New York’s  Solar Jobs Act  being considered by
lawmakers in  Albany  is unnecessary because the state has already
set a goal of getting 30 percent of its power from renewable
sources such as wind and solar by 2015. In New Jersey and
 Massachusetts , which offer similar incentives, Con Ed is
investing as much as $190 million developing solar projects.  While Con Ed will benefit from selling solar power at
above-market prices in New Jersey, the  New York  rules would
require it to buy an increasing amount of energy from homes and
businesses that install solar systems. That, the utility says,
will drive up consumers’ rates. It may also create 22,000 jobs
and spur as much as $20 billion in investment by building a
rooftop solar industry, according to the  Vote Solar Initiative 
lobby group.  “I don’t begrudge Con Ed wanting to have it both ways, and
they’re not the only utility opposed, but they’re trying to
prevent the development of a solar industry in their home
state,” said New York Assemblyman Steve Englebright, who
introduced the legislation.  Long-Term Contracts  The law would require New York utilities to enter 15-year
contracts to buy renewable energy credits, which represent the
power generated by rooftop solar systems, at the market rate for
solar power.  More than 100 companies, including Staples Inc., General
Electric Co. and Mitsubishi Corp., support the legislation
because it would guarantee a market for power they may generate
from installing solar panels on their buildings.  Con Ed doesn’t like this arrangement because it locks the
utility into long-term contracts to buy solar energy at rates
that will be higher than it would pay for electricity generated
by other sources, said Chris Olert, a spokesman for the utility.
New York already has the third-highest residential power price
in the U.S., averaging 15.52 cents a kilowatt-hour, and he said
that requiring the utility to purchase electricity at higher-
than-average prices will drive up its rates.  “We think this program is prohibitively expensive for our
customers,” Olert said in an interview. “We are supportive of
solar, just not this program.”  Business Opposition  Con Ed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Kevin Burke, is
also chairman of the Business Council of New York, which has
more than 2,500 members and opposes the bill.  Pierre Bull, a policy analyst at the  Natural Resources
Defense Council  in New York, said Con Ed is concerned that wider
use of rooftop solar power would cut into its profits.
Businesses and consumers that generate their own electricity
will use less power provided by the utility, reducing its
delivery fees, and the company would incur costs to connect
those systems to the  power grid .  The Vote Solar Initiative estimates that the New York
legislation, if passed would drive up demand for rooftop solar
projects and create as many as 22,200 jobs to manufacture and
install panels. That would trickle down to $20 billion in local
spending, between 2012 and 2020, according to a  report  the group
released in June.  The New York law would affect Con Ed’s regulated utility,
which is prohibited from owning assets that generate
electricity. The parent company has other, unregulated, units
that do not face the same restrictions, and is investing $190
million in two of them to expand its renewable energy portfolio.  Con Ed’s Developments  Con Ed Development builds and operates  power plants ,
including wind, solar and natural gas projects, and says the 20-
megawatt Pilesgrove Solar plant it is building in New Jersey
will be the largest in the northeast.  Con Ed Solutions installs and operates rooftop solar
projects on homes and businesses. It built an 11.1-kilowatt
system on the U.S. General Services Administration building in
New York, the third-largest federal office building in the
country. The company said in April 2010 that it would focus on
New Jersey and Massachusetts, where incentives make solar power
more profitable.  Solar projects in New Jersey earn Solar Renewable Energy
Credits that can be sold, generating long-term revenue. Small
plants, those with capacity of less than 10 kilowatts, are also
eligible through next year for rebates to offset installation
costs.  Those incentives attracted 137.1 megawatts of solar power
last year in New Jersey, second only to  California ’s 258.9
megawatts, according to the Washington-based Solar Energy
Industry Association. New York, the third-most populous state,
had 23 megawatts and didn’t make the top 10.  “This is the right time to be investing in solar,” Jorge
Lopez, chief executive officer of Con Ed Solutions, said last
year after the company announced plans to invest in his unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  