-- 
Conde Nast Publications Completes $2 Billion Deal to Move to Trade Center

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-05-25T21:02:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/conde-nast-completes-deal-to-move-headquarters-to-manhattan-s-trade-center.html
Conde Nast  Publications Inc., the
publisher of Vogue and Golf Digest magazines, signed a lease to
move its headquarters to downtown  Manhattan ’s 1 World Trade
Center, slated to be the western hemisphere’s tallest building.  The publisher will rent about 1 million square feet (92,900
square meters) in a deal valued at about $2 billion over 25
years, according to the Port Authority of New York and  New
Jersey , developer of the building. The 1,776-foot skyscraper,
now rising at the site where terrorists destroyed the twin
towers nine years ago, is scheduled for completion in 2013.  The lease deal is the biggest for lower Manhattan in more
than 25 years, the authority said in a statement today. It shows
that 1 World Trade is a viable commercial property, something
many people doubted when it was proposed, said Robert Yaro,
executive director of  New York ’s  Regional Plan Association , an
urban planning group. It should also diversify a market that has
long depended on financial companies as tenants, he said.  “This is very, very important in realizing the vision that
a lot of us have had for years, for transforming lower Manhattan
into a much more diversified economy,” Yaro said in a phone
interview. “This is likely to attract a whole new group of
tenants to downtown and to the trade center.”  20 Through 41  Conde Nast, a unit of Samuel Irving Newhouse Jr.’s Advance
Publications Inc., will lease floors 20 through 41, the Port
Authority said. The company’s headquarters is currently at
Midtown’s 4 Times Square, owned by New York real estate investor
 Douglas Durst .  Durst last year agreed to invest at least $100 million into
1 World Trade Center as a partner with the  Port Authority . He
completed that deal today and agreed to take responsibility for
leasing and property management.  Newhouse, speaking at the public lease signing on the 34th
floor of 1 World Trade, recalled that 50 years ago, “the whole
company fit into half a floor at the Graybar Building” in
Midtown. The new lease makes room for more than 3,000 employees,
he said.  “We hope Conde Nast at last can be united into a single
building and will be a catalyst for the rebirth of the whole
downtown area, just as we did for Times Square,” he said.  The company plans to move in between the last quarter of
2014 and the first part of 2015, said John Bellando, Conde
Nast’s chief financial officer.  ‘Trendsetter’  “Conde Nast has always been something of a trendsetter,
and its move is sure to attract others to the area, further
strengthening and diversifying the lower Manhattan economy,”
New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said in a statement. He is
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, parent company of
Bloomberg News.  The tower is now at the 66th floor and is rising at a rate
of one floor per week, according to the Port Authority. Conde
Nast is the second signed tenant; Chinese property developer
Beijing Vantone Real Estate Co. in 2009 signed a lease for
190,810 square feet.  Tara Stacom and Alan Stein of Cushman & Wakefield Inc. led
Conde Nast lease negotiations for the Port Authority, while Mary Ann Tighe and Greg Tosko of CB Richard Ellis Group Inc.
represented the publisher.  “We built a new reality at the World Trade Center and this
transaction will be the exclamation point of that turnaround,”
Chris Ward, executive director of the Port Authority, said in
today’s statement. “Completing this lease with Conde Nast is a
game changer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  