-- 
Congress Lacks ‘Credibility’ to Hike Taxes: Camp

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 
2011-05-25T20:45:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/congress-lacks-credibility-to-hike-taxes-camp.html
Congress lacks “credibility” with
voters to seek tax increases without first reducing federal
spending, said House Ways and Means Chairman  Dave Camp .  “We have to demonstrate a commitment to get our debt and
deficit under control,” the Michigan Republican said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television today. “The problem is
Washington has spent too much.”  House Republicans  and the Obama administration are clashing
over whether a vote to raise the $14.3 trillion federal debt
ceiling should include revenue increases along with spending
cuts.  Camp and many other Republicans say a deficit reduction
agreement shouldn’t include tax increases. Vice President  Joe Biden , who is leading the debt limit talks for the
administration, said yesterday that “revenues have to be in the
deal.” Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican, has said
higher revenue generated by eliminating tax breaks should be
part of a bipartisan agreement.  Camp said a scheduled vote next week on a $2.4 trillion
debt limit increase without conditions will demonstrate through
its failure that Congress will impose spending cuts.  ‘Avenue’s Closed’  “It’s important to demonstrate that that avenue’s
closed,” Camp said of raising the debt limit without
conditions, adding that financial markets shouldn’t interpret
the House vote’s likely failure next week as a sign that
Congress won’t raise the debt limit. “This is one where I think
we have to look past just the headline.”  Separate from the debt limit discussion, Camp is working on
a proposal to overhaul the U.S. tax code that would raise the
same amount of money as the current system while lowering rates
and removing tax breaks.  “That’s a direction that will actually help grow our
economy,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net 
 Peter Cook  in Washington at 
 Pcook6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  