-- 
Container Leasing Surge Shows Global Economy Accelerating: Freight Markets

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-05-25T04:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/container-leasing-surge-shows-global-economy-accelerating-freight-markets.html
The global trade rebound is pushing
shipping lines to rely more on leasing companies such as  CAI
International Inc.  and TAL International Group Inc. for the
containers used to transport everything from bananas to blouses.  “We’re seeing perfect conditions,”  Brian Sondey ,
president and chief executive officer of Purchase, New York-
based TAL, said in an interview. “Relatively strong growth in
trade creates a good level of need for containers, supply is
very tight and shipping lines aren’t purchasing as many
containers as in the past.”  Shipping lines that competed for containers in 2010 may
face an even bigger shortage this year. Demand for steel cargo
boxes may increase as much as 11 percent and manufacturers are
limiting production. Sea carriers, including  A.P. Moeller-Maersk
A/S , operator of the world’s largest container line, are also
sailing at slower speeds to save on fuel costs and are directing
more capital to new vessels.  Even with enough containers currently in use to circle the
earth 4.3 times, the shortfall has pushed new container prices
to a record, allowing lessors to raise rates.  The Bloomberg U.S.  Container Leasing Index , which includes
Textainer Group Holdings Ltd., TAL, CAI and SeaCube Container
Leasing Ltd., has surged about 121 percent since the end of
2009, four times the gain of the  Russell 2000 Index .  ‘Shangri-La’ Environment  Beginning last year, “there was a rebound in demand, a
shortage of containers, people scrambling everywhere to get the
containers, and it was a Shangri-La type of environment for the
leasing companies,” said Jefferies & Co. Inc. equity analyst
 Daniel Furtado  in San Francisco. He has a “buy” rating on  CAI ,
based in the same city, forecasting that shares will rise to $30
in the next 12 months, a gain of 38 percent after rising 117
percent in 2010.  Shipping lines  will purchase about 35 percent of new
containers this year, according to TAL’s Sondey. They have
historically purchased about 60 percent of the new supply.  “This is turning out to be a longer-play opportunity
because the shipping companies really haven’t gotten back into
any sizeable buying of containers, and so they’re relying on the
leasing companies to provide the containers necessary,” said
 George Henning , president and chairman of Pacific Global
Investment Management Co. in Glendale, California.  Henning manages the $160 million Pacific Advisors Small Cap
Value Fund, which held about 170,000 shares of TAL at the end of
2010. Parent-company Pacific Global owns more than 350,000 of
TAL shares, which Henning said was about 5 percent of its
portfolio.  Relative to Growth  Demand for containers, as measured in 20-foot equivalent
units, or TEUs, typically increases at two to three times the
growth rate of global gross domestic product, according to
 Helane Becker , an analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co. LLC in New York.
Becker has a “buy” rating on all four leasing companies. She
forecast container demand growth of as much as 11 percent this
year, compared with 8.8 percent compound annual growth over the
last decade.  Global GDP  will rise 4.4 percent in 2011, compared with an
average growth rate of 3.6 percent over the past decade, the
International Monetary Fund said in its World Economic Outlook
report released April 11.  Merchandise export volume this year is forecast to increase
6.5 percent after a record 14.5 percent surge in 2010, the
biggest back-to-back gains since 1970, according to World Trade
Organization figures.  In Asia, where lessors say they expect emerging markets to
propel trade volumes, economies will expand 6.7 percent this
year, the IMF projects. Emerging Asia, which includes China,
India, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Singapore, among others, is
expected to grow by 7.9 percent.  Global Fleet  The number of ocean shipping containers in use in the
 global fleet  is about 18.61 million units, or 28.54 million TEU,
according to the World Shipping Council’s May  Container Supply
Review . If placed end to end at the earth’s equator, a
circumference of about 131.46 million feet, the 570.8 million
feet of steel boxes would stretch around the globe more than
four times.  During the recession, shipping lines came to a “near-death
experience” as trade volumes sunk and left them with unneeded
containers, Dahlman’s Becker said. The companies realized they
would have more flexibility when trade slowed and could spend
more on new ships if they relied more on lessors, she said.  The current price on a new container is about $3,000,
according to the  World Shipping Council . Container lessors sign
carriers to five-year to six-year contracts worth about 14
percent of the purchase price, according to Becker.  First Year  Based on that purchase price, a leasing company would earn
$420 a year. Because dry boxes are depreciated to between $950
and $1100, the first lease covers the cost of the container,
Becker wrote in a March 11 research note. A container typically
lasts about 14 years and is afterward sold as scrap.  “If you think about 3.4 million TEUs being produced at
$3,000, that’s $10.2 billion of capital that the shipping
companies need to have in one form or fashion,” said  Steve Bishop , SeaCube’s chief financial and operating officer.  The Maersk Conakry, a new container vessel that’s 817 feet
(249 meters) from bow to stern, can carry about 4,500 TEUs,
enough containers to fill a train 17.4 miles (28 kilometers)
long, according to the carrier’s  website . At full capacity,
leasing every container on board would generate about $5,180 per
day for the lessor at current rates.  While shipping lines still own about 60 percent of the
entire container fleet, their share will diminish as the older
boxes they own are scrapped and they turn to newer containers
held by lessors, TAL’s Sondey said.  Vessel Networks  “Our shipping line customers are saving whatever capital
they have to build out their vessel networks, which means they
don’t want to allocate money to containers,” said Sondey, whose
renters include Maersk and Evergreen Marine Corp.  Textainer, TAL, CAI and SeaCube account for about 44
percent of the leasing market, as measured by the industry
standard 20-foot equivalent units, according to  Salvatore Vitale , an analyst at Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc. in New York, who
has “buy” ratings on all four companies.  Also driving up demand is so-called slow-steaming, whereby
vessels sail at  reduced speeds  to save fuel. Slow-steaming eats
into container supply by about 5 percent to 7 percent as longer
trips from Asia to North America tie up boxes for greater
periods of time,  John Maccarone , president and chief executive
officer of Textainer, the world’s biggest lessor of containers
based on fleet size, said during an April 27 interview on
Bloomberg Television.  Marine fuel, known as bunkers, cost $629.50 a metric ton on
May 24 in Singapore, a key refueling point, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 47 percent more than a year ago.  Slower Sailing  The largest ships burn 320 tons of fuel a day when
traveling at full speed, Soren Andersen, vice president for
vessel management at Maersk Line, the container unit of Maersk,
told Bloomberg on Jan. 18. They can reduce fuel usage to 40 tons
when they sail as slowly as possible, saving owners about $27
million a year, according to the executive.  “Demand is very strong,” Textainer’s Maccarone, based in
San Francisco, said during the interview. As a consequence of
the shortage, “utilization of our containers is approaching 99
percent, which is almost impossible to reach.”  Utilization, the percentage of the entire lessor fleet
rented out, was at an all-time high of 98 percent in the first
three months of this year, seasonally the weakest quarter,
according to Vitale, who expects the rate to remain at that
level this year because of tight supply.  Following last year’s deficit of 367,000 units, the number
of containers manufactured in 2011 will fall 461,000 units short
of the amount carriers need, Vitale projects.  Container Values  This will help prop up lease rates as well as boost the
value of for-sale used containers, TAL’s Sondey said. TAL rents
out containers on leases shorter than the container life,
letting it price future leases higher when rates rise, he said.  For Maersk, the rising price of boxes would add to costs
for the company’s container shipping line, said  Michael Storgaard , a Copenhagen-based spokesman for the company.  “It means the same for Maersk Line as for other shipping
companies: more expensive boxes,” he said. Still, at a group
level Maersk also has a unit that builds the units, protecting
profits in the event that prices strengthen, he said.  The recession prompted container makers to reduce
production and cut their workforce. With the economy rebounding,
manufacturers are having trouble finding skilled labor to ramp
up production, according to Vitale.  Three producers, China International Marine Containers
Group Co. Ltd.,  Singamas Container Holdings Ltd. , and CXIC Group
Containers Co. Ltd., control 83 percent of the market, Dahlman’s
Becker said.  Raising Prices  Singamas, the second-biggest manufacturer, may increase
prices 11 percent this year after  steel costs  rose and the Japan
tsunami exacerbated a global shortage of cargo boxes, Chief
Executive Officer  Teo Siong Seng  said in an interview in
Singapore on April 15.  The shortage of boxes may stretch beyond 2012 as lines add
large vessels that will likely sail at slower speeds, Teo said.  “The container manufacturers seem to be managing the
number of containers that are being produced very carefully,”
SeaCube’s Bishop said in an interview from his Park Ridge, New
Jersey, office. “If demand is at or exceeds supply, there’s
really no reason to expect current utilization rates to drop
significantly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  