-- 
Copper, Gold Price Ratio Signals Nikkei Index May Slide: Chart of the Day

-- B y   H i d e k i   S a g i i k e   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 
2011-05-25T23:37:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/copper-gold-price-ratio-signals-nikkei-index-may-slide-chart-of-the-day.html
The divergence between copper and
gold futures may presage a further decline in  Japan ’s Nikkei 225
Stock Average, already the world’s worst-performing developed
market benchmark this year.  “Copper prices falling and gold prices rising mean that
the dollar is going to weaken, and a weaker dollar versus the
yen tends to lead to a decline in Japanese stocks,” Takeshi Yamaguchi, who helps oversee $134 billion at Sumitomo Mitsui
Asset in  Tokyo , said in a telephone interview this week.
“Changes in the copper-gold ratio are an early predictor of how
Japan’s market may move.”  The CHART OF THE DAY shows how moves in the Nikkei gauge
tend to follow changes in the metals ratio, which is derived by
dividing the price of copper futures by those for gold. While
contracts on copper, one of the world’s most used metals,
indicate bets on global demand,  gold prices  signal anticipated
risk, as investors regard the precious metal as a safe haven,
Yamaguchi said. A decline in the ratio signals pessimists
outweigh optimists, he said.  Copper futures for July delivery have fallen about 11
percent from this year’s high on Feb. 14, while gold reached a
record $1,577.57 on May 2, advancing 7.5 percent this year after
a 30 percent jump in 2010. Copper, used in products such as
cars, electronics, building materials and power cables, is the
world’s third-most widely used metal, after iron and aluminum.
The Nikkei 225 fell 7.4 percent this year, more than any other
benchmark for developed market stocks, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  After the measure tracking copper and gold futures reached
last year’s high on April 15, the gauge then dropped 28 percent
to last year’s low on June 8. The Nikkei fell 22 percent from
its high last year on April 5 to its 2010 low on Aug. 31.  “If I see the ratio for the metals declining but the
 Nikkei 225  is rising, I take it as a signal to sell Japanese
stocks,” said Yamaguchi. “I find this signal as very helpful
for my trading,” he said. “The downwards trend is likely to
continue on the Nikkei 225 for a while.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hideki Sagiike in Tokyo at 
 hsagiike@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  