-- 
Costco Third-Quarter Profit Trails Estimates as Costs Climb; Shares Fall

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-05-25T20:13:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/costco-third-quarter-profit-rises-as-mexico-warehouse-stores-boost-sales.html
Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , the largest
U.S. warehouse-club chain, declined after third-quarter profit
missed analysts’ estimates, hurt by increasing costs for
gasoline.  Net income rose to 73 cents a share in the quarter ended
May 8, and included a $49 million charge to offset inflation,
the Issaquah, Washington-based company said in a statement
today. Analysts projected 77 cents, the average of 21 estimates.
Revenue rose 16 percent.  The results were hurt by higher costs for fuel and food
such as cheese and coffee, Chief Financial Officer Richard Galanti said today on a conference call. Rising gasoline prices
made up $11 million of the $49 million charge, Galanti said.  “Inflation is hitting everybody and it’s going to
continue,” Galanti said. “It’s here. When will it subside?
Hopefully soon.”  The company, led by Chief Executive Officer James Sinegal,
recorded a $6 million charge to offset inflation in the second
quarter after not having one for more than two years.  “It’s disappointing that the stronger sales didn’t sustain
the earnings growth rate,” said Robert Summers, an analyst for
Susquehanna Financial Group in  New York  who has a “neutral”
rating on Costco. “You are probably going to have another
quarter or maybe two of gross margin pressure.”  Gross margin totaled 10.5 percent, down from 10.88 a year
ago, Galanti said.  Costco fell $1.03, or 1.3 percent, to $80.32 at 4:01 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares had risen 13 percent
this year before today, while competitor  BJ’s Wholesale Club
Inc. (BJ)  has gained 4.8 percent. BJ’s posted first-quarter income of
$33.7 million, or 62 cents a share, on May 18 that surpassed the
average projection of analysts.  A year ago, third-quarter profit was $306 million, or 68
cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  