-- 
Crude Oil Manipulation Suit May Fuel Debate on Speculation Rules

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-05-25T01:17:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/crude-oil-manipulation-suit-may-fuel-debate-on-speculation-rules.html
A U.S. lawsuit against two traders
and three firms that allegedly manipulated prices for crude oil
derivatives in 2008 may bolster calls for new speculative
trading limits required by the Dodd-Frank Act.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission claimed in its
suit that the alleged scheme generated $50 million in unlawful
profits and pushed crude  oil prices  higher nationwide.  The civil complaint, filed yesterday in U.S. District Court
in  New York , claims that James T. Dyer of  Brisbane ,  Australia ,
and Nicholas J. Wildgoose of Rancho  Santa Fe , Calif., amassed
physical and derivative positions in West Texas Intermediate
crude oil to artificially push prices higher. The complaint also
named Parnon Energy Inc. of Rancho Santa Fe, Arcadia Petroleum
Ltd. of  London  and Arcadia Energy SA of Morges,  Switzerland  as
defendants.  The CFTC is facing pressure from Democratic members of
Congress to impose trading curbs on oil because of the increase
in crude prices.  The case “may highlight the need for speculative limits in
some people’s minds because they perceive it as a simple
solution,” said  David Hackett , president of  Stillwater
Associates , an Irvine, Calif.-based energy consultancy.  In its lawsuit, the CFTC said the traders, who had no
commercial need for crude oil, made the “economically
irrational” move of holding their physical position to lull the
market into believing that the oil had been stored or put to
commercial use, with “the secret intent to surprise the market
later” by dumping their position and driving prices back down.  Sell-Off  The traders then used derivatives to sell short, or bet
against the artificially high price before surprising the market
with an unexpected sell-off, driving the price down and
generating profits on their short position, according to the
complaint.  Dyer and Wildgoose conducted the activities in January and
March of 2008, and aborted another attempt to manipulate prices
a month later after learning they were under investigation, the
CFTC said.  A call to a Limassol, Cyprus, phone number listed to
Farahead Holdings Limited, the parent company for the firms, was
not connected. Phone numbers for Dyer and Wildgoose weren’t
immediately available, and no defense attorneys were listed in
court documents.  The suit is the first anti-manipulation case filed or
settled by the CFTC since April 29, 2010, according to the
agency.  ‘Gouged at the Pump’  “This is exactly what we expect the CFTC to be doing,”
said Senator Maria Cantwell, a  Washington  Democrat. “I expect
the CFTC to be aggressive in policing these markets and standing
up for consumers who are getting gouged at the pump.”  Gregory Mocek, former head of the CFTC enforcement
division, said the agency has “aggressively pursued what they
perceive to be manipulative conduct in these markets since
2002,” referring to the time since the Enron Corp. scandal.
“And I don’t think that’s going to stop anytime soon,” he
said.  Dodd-Frank’s requirement for so-called position limits to
curb speculative trading has divided the CFTC, which missed its
January deadline to complete the rules. Meanwhile, 17 Democratic
senators urged the CFTC on May 11 to quickly impose the limits,
starting with crude oil.  “Though the CFTC is not a price-setting agency, rising
prices for basic commodities highlight the importance of having
effective market oversight,”  Gary Gensler , CFTC chairman, wrote
in response to the senators’ letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  