-- 
Deficit May Clip 12-Year Tax Streak for Top-Earning Americans

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-05-25T17:57:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/deficit-may-clip-12-year-tax-streak-for-top-earning-americans.html
The year 2013 may snap a 12-year
winning streak for wealthy Americans on taxes due on income,
capital gains, dividends and giving money to their heirs.  The U.S.  deficit , forecast by the nonpartisan Congressional
Budget Office to reach a two-year cumulative total of $2.5
trillion in 2012, has prompted calls by some in President  Barack Obama ’s administration, Congress and a bipartisan commission to
limit  tax  breaks for home mortgage interest, charitable
contributions, municipal bonds and retirement contributions.  “The deficit is an issue,” said  Bill Fleming , managing
director at New York-based accounting and advisory firm
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Many wealthy taxpayers “have
already decided in their minds that something is going to happen
and they’re going to pay higher taxes.”  Rates on income, capital gains and dividends will rise in
2013 because tax cuts extended last year are scheduled to expire
at the end of 2012, unless Congress acts. In 2013, top earners
also face additional levies on unearned income and wages to help
pay for health-care reform.  Obama  has proposed letting income-tax rates increase to as
much as 39.6 percent from 35 percent for couples making more
than $250,000 annually or individuals earning at least $200,000.
Capital gains and dividends would be taxed at a top rate of 20
percent, up from 15 percent. The highest earners face an
additional 3.8 percent tax on unearned income such as realized
capital gains, plus a 0.9 percentage point rise in the Medicare
payroll tax on wages starting in 2013 as part of the health-care
bill passed in March 2010.  Poll on Taxes  A majority of Americans favor increasing taxes on the
wealthy, at least two polls this year found. A  Quinnipiac
University poll  released May 4 said 69 percent of voters back
raising taxes on households earning $250,000 or more, while a
March Bloomberg National Poll reported the figure at 59 percent
of respondents.  For a married couple with two children in Connecticut,
which has the  third-highest  state and local tax burden in the
U.S., the increase in rates Obama has proposed, along with
levies from health-care reform, mean their tax bill may jump to
$142,160 in 2013 from $126,410 this year, or 12.5 percent,
according to an analysis Fleming ran for Bloomberg News.  That’s based on $485,000 in earnings, $2,000 in interest on
investments, $3,000 in dividend income and $10,000 in long-term
capital gains, and the following deductions: $20,000 in mortgage
interest and charitable donations of $10,000, said Fleming, who
works for PwC’s private company services tax group in Boston and
Hartford, Connecticut.  Tax Scenario  The scenario includes interest payments of 5 percent on a
$400,000 mortgage, Fleming said. If the mortgage deduction is
eliminated, the family’s tax bill would increase 19 percent to
$150,080 in 2013 from 2011, according to the analysis.  States such as Connecticut and Illinois have raised taxes
this year, according to the Washington-based  Tax Foundation .
Hawaii and Oregon have the highest state income tax with rates
as high as 11 percent.  The federal government is under pressure to come up with
ways to reduce deficits and the national debt, or it may lose
its AAA credit rating, Standard & Poor’s said on April 18. The
budget situation is causing some lawmakers to call for cuts in
spending and others to advocate for tax increases, said Mark
Robyn, economist for the  Tax Foundation , a nonpartisan research
group in Washington. “Politically, you’re probably going to see
some combination of the two,” Robyn said.  Biggest Breaks  The biggest federal tax breaks for individuals include
those for mortgage interest, charitable contributions, state and
local taxes, incentives for retirement savings and the exclusion
for employer-provided health care, said  Clint Stretch , managing
principal of tax policy at Deloitte Tax LLP in Washington. Each
of them would be “politically pretty toxic” to eliminate or
reduce, Stretch said.  Phasing out the mortgage interest deduction would increase
federal revenue by $214.6 billion over the next 10 years,
according to estimates from the Joint Committee on Taxation in a
 March report  by the CBO. Curtailing deductions for charitable
giving would raise an estimated $219 billion over the next
decade, the CBO study said.  Other revenue-raising options include taxing interest
earned on municipal bonds and reducing the cap on all
contributions to 401(k) retirement plans to $14,850 annually and
to $4,500 for individual retirement accounts, according to the
CBO report. That compares with a maximum of as much as $22,000
this year for individual contributions to 401(k)s and $6,000 for
IRAs.  Deficit Report  The bipartisan  deficit commission  suggested overhauling tax
rates in a separate  report  in December that would set a top tax
rate of 28 percent, down from the current 35 percent. That plan
also would tax capital gains and dividends as ordinary income
and convert the mortgage interest and charitable contribution
deductions into limited credits.  “Individuals have a real problem,” Stretch said of the
varying proposals. “It’s sort of like going through a tunnel
when you’re driving: You turn up your lights and you keep up
your speed. You got to pay attention to it. You got to see where
risks and opportunities are, but the worst thing you could
probably do is to be paralyzed, to stop planning.”  Less Spending Money  A reduction in tax breaks or increase in rates means
taxpayers will have less money to spend in the economy and it
may discourage investing, said Bloomberg Government tax analyst
 Matthew Caminiti  in an interview.  Investments are the main asset of the wealthy while for the
middle class it’s their home, said  Edward Wolff , a professor of
economics at New York University. The top 10 percent of wealth
holders in 2007, the latest data available, owned 81 percent of
stocks, Wolff said. “The preferential tax treatment of capital
gains and dividends in the tax code definitely mainly benefits
the rich,” he said.  Congress also may take a “close look” at the tax benefits
of municipal debt as soon as 2012, said  George Friedlander ,
chief municipal strategist for  Citigroup Inc.  in New York. “If
they actually get around to doing a bona fide cut in future
spending then state and local finance will be on the table next
year,” Friedlander said.  Muni bonds generally are exempt from federal taxes as well
as state and local levies for residents in most states where
they’re issued. For high earners and retirees seeking tax-free
income any changes to the tax benefits of municipal bonds would
be “impactful,” said Christopher Johnson of the wealth
advisory group for  Barclays Wealth  in New York.  Retirement Benefits  Proposals to cap tax incentives that encourage Americans to
save for retirement are “short-sighted,”  Robert Reynolds ,
chief executive officer of Boston-based Putnam Investments, said
in a statement yesterday. Reynolds urged the Massachusetts
Congressional delegation to oppose any such policy shift.  “Those most severely hurt if savings incentives were cut
would be low and moderate income workers who need help in saving
for their futures,” he said.  Limiting retirement benefits also may change strategies
used by the wealthy, said Johnson, whose clients typically have
at least $10 million in investable assets. Many high-net-worth
individuals use accounts such as Roth IRAs to pass wealth down
to their children, Johnson said. If such opportunities are
removed, there will be a “rebalancing” toward whatever areas
remain opportunistic, he said. “It’s going to be difficult to
anticipate in advance what those will be.”  Make a Gift  The uncertainty means wealthy families should consider
taking advantage of favorable gift taxes that are scheduled to
expire at the end of 2012, said Linda Beerman, chief fiduciary
officer of Atlantic Trust Private Wealth Management.  Under the tax-cut compromise passed in December,
individuals generally may gift up to $5 million during their
lifetime without paying tax. That threshold will revert to $1
million in 2013 unless Congress acts.  “Move that $5 million now to your children or
grandchildren to lock that in if you’re afraid that will go
away,” Beerman said. That way the appreciation on those assets
is out of an estate, Beerman said.  The debate around taxes and deficit reduction will continue
into the 2012 election because lawmakers can’t agree, said
Deloitte’s Stretch. “People who want clarity will have to
wait.”  Stabilizing Debt  “Over the last decade this country has failed to live
within our budget,” Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat and
chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said in a May 3
budget-hearing  statement . “It is time to craft deficit
reduction legislation that will stabilize debt held by the
public by 2014 or 2015.”  During a May 16  speech , House Budget Committee chairman
Representative  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, said that
cutting spending and reforming government programs will reduce
the U.S. debt. “The government cannot close its enormous fiscal
gap simply by taxing the rich,” Ryan said in his prepared
remarks before the Economic Club of Chicago.  It’s unpatriotic for the rich to oppose higher taxes
because the distribution of wealth in America has become so
skewed, said Jerry Rockefeller, 81, of Brandon, Florida.  “The country is calling on the wealthy to kick in and
help,” as when everyone “stepped up” during World War II,
said Rockefeller, who’s retired and used to run his own
consulting business in New York for publishing firms. “The
middle class can’t do it. They’ve been kicked dry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 