-- 
Demand for Nigerian Debt Could Rise on Political Stability, Citigroup Says

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-05-25T12:14:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/demand-for-nigeria-s-debt-likely-to-rise-citi-s-cookson-says.html
Demand for debt from  Nigeria , which
has outperformed an average of emerging-market notes, will rise
as political stability improves following April’s elections,
said Richard Cookson, global chief investment officer for Citi
Private Bank, a unit of  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Nigeria raised $500 million from its debut sale of
Eurobonds on Jan. 21, with orders equaling more than two times
the amount of debt sold. Citibank acted as joint bookrunner on
the bond offer. The 6.75 percent debt due 2021 has returned 6.2
percent since being issued, compared with a 5.2 percent average
return for emerging-market notes, according to JP Morgan Chase &
Co. emerging-market indexes.  “Given the demand for the country’s bond offer, and given
the deteriorating quality of debt in the rest of the world,
there should be more demand for the country’s debt,” Cookson
said in an interview on May 23 in Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial
capital. “The political system is getting better and if all
continues to go according to expectations, the overall credit
rating of the country is likely to go up, not down.”  Goodluck Jonathan, a Christian from the oil-rich Niger
River delta region, defeated former military ruler  Muhammadu
Buhari , a northern Muslim, for a second term in office.
Jonathan’s People’s  Democratic Party  has won all the
presidential elections since 1999, when the West African nation
returned to civilian rule.  Rating Expectation  Nigeria, Africa’s biggest crude producer, is rated B+ by
Standard and Poor’s, four levels below investment grade, and a
step higher at BB- by  Fitch Ratings . Ghana, ranked one level
lower at S&P, has a yield of 6.15 percent on its dollar bonds
due in 2017, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bonds due
in 2016 from Lebanon, also rated B, yield 5.38 percent.  Angola’s long-term foreign-currency rating was raised one
step to BB- by Fitch Ratings yesterday, one step above  Greece ’s
assessment, as higher  oil prices  boost state revenue and debt
arrears decline.  Citi Private Bank’s portfolio is currently “underweight”
on emerging equities, with more exposure to fixed income,
according to Cookson. “I am still comfortable that fixed income
will outperform equities,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  