-- 
Democrats Say Win in New York U.S. House Race Sends Message on Medicare

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-05-25T15:04:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/democrat-wins-u-s-house-race-on-medicare.html
Democratic national leaders touted
Kathy Hochul’s victory in an election for an open congressional
seat in western  New York  as a clear sign of public opposition to
the Republican plan to privatize Medicare.  Analysts cautioned about reading too much into the election
results from one congressional district, even one long
controlled by Republicans. Still, they said the Democratic win
should make Republicans nervous about voters’ reception to their
Medicare proposal.  Hochul, 52, the Erie County clerk who turned the campaign
into a referendum on the Medicare plan, defeated Republican
state legislator Jane Corwin yesterday, 47 percent to 43
percent, with 97 percent of the vote counted, according to the
Associated Press tally. Buffalo-area industrialist  Jack Davis ,
who ran on the Tea Party ballot slot, received 9 percent.  “Republicans are going to have to hope” that the Medicare
plan “will become just a small memory” before the 2012
election, said Bruce Altschuler, a political scientist at the
 State University of New York  at Oswego.  The race was closely watched for its implications for
national politics, including the 2012 presidential race. After
polls showed Hochul gaining traction on the Medicare issue,
national party groups and their independent allies helped
finance a barrage of local television ads and automated
telephone calls to voters.  Democratic Reaction  Democrats called Hochul’s triumph a repudiation of the plan
to overhaul Medicare, the government-run health-care program for
the elderly, passed by the Republican-controlled House last
month.  Medicare was “the No. 1 issue, it was the No. 2 issue, it
was the No. 3 issue,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Nevada Democrat, said today in a floor speech. “It’s what the
voters most cared about, and were most scared about, as well
they should be.”  Hochul’s “victory in a staunchly Republican district has
shocked the political world and sent an unmistakable sign that
the American people will not stand for the Republicans’ reckless
and extreme agenda to end Medicare,” House Minority Leader
 Nancy Pelosi  of California said in a statement.  Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, while
praising Hochul as a “great candidate,” said in a statement
that the outcome also showed that “New Yorkers of all political
persuasions do not want to destroy Medicare.”  ‘Millionaires and Billionaires’  Political analysts said Democrats, who lost control of the
House to Republicans in last November’s elections, will seek to
replicate Hochul’s populist attacks on Corwin in their 2012
campaigns. Hochul contended her Republican opponent favored
lower Medicare benefits to protect tax breaks for “millionaires
and billionaires.”  “Democrats will try to use it as a blueprint in races all
across the country,” while “Republicans have to learn to deal
with it,” said  Nathan Gonzales , political editor of the
Washington-based nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report.  Alan Abramowitz , a political scientist at Emory University
in Atlanta, said the election is “definitely going to be
interpreted as a pretty clear sign” that the Medicare issue
“is hurting Republican candidates.”  Even before the votes were tallied, some Republican leaders
discounted the election’s political significance because of
Davis’s third-party candidacy.  Not a ‘Signal’  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican
who made a fundraising visit to the district for Corwin, said in
Washington May 23 that the New York race can’t “be seen as a
signal” of voter disapproval of the Republican Medicare plan
because “it’s a three-way race.”  Gonzales said Davis’s candidacy forced Corwin, 47, “to
fight a two-front war, and she did so poorly.” Still, he said
in an e-mail, “It’s going to be hard for Republicans to spin
their way out of the loss because it looks to me like the
Medicare narrative of the race is already set in stone.”  Yesterday’s election in the 26th District, which runs from
suburban Buffalo eastward to suburban Rochester, came six weeks
after the House approved a 2012 budget resolution that calls for
privatizing Medicare for people who turn 65 in 2022.  Bill Reilich , the chairman of the Monroe County Republican
Committee in Rochester, said House Republicans provided
Democrats with a political opening by voting on the Medicare
plan before giving voters a chance to “understand the problem”
of the program’s potential insolvency.  ‘Roll Out the Solution’  “You have to explain the problem and the concerns and let
people absorb that” before “you roll out the solution,”
Reilich, a state lawmaker, said in a telephone interview.
“Democrats did an effective job of scaring the voters with that
issue.”  The Republican plan, drafted by House Budget Committee
Chairman  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , would provide a government
subsidy to senior citizens to buy private health insurance. The
 Congressional Budget Office  estimated that older Americans would
pay a higher percentage of their income for health care under
Ryan’s plan than in the current system.  Hochul focused her campaign on attacking the Ryan plan,
which also would cut the top tax rate for wealthy Americans and
corporations to 25 percent from 35 percent.  “We had the right issues on our side,” Hochul said in her
victory speech last night. “We can balance our budget the right
way and not on the backs of our seniors.”  Make Changes Now  Corwin, a member of the New York State Assembly, said
during the campaign that she supported the Republican plan
because “if we want Medicare to be around for current seniors
and future generations, we need to make changes now.”  In her  concession speech , she decried the “discourse of
this election” campaign. “We cannot continue to play ‘gotcha’
politics and avoid confronting the major issues,” Corwin said.
“I confronted the issues head-on.”  Republican presidential candidates and those considering
running for their party’s 2012 nomination have treated Ryan’s
plan gingerly.  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia , a declared
candidate, initially called the measure “right-wing social
engineering.” Criticized by other Republicans, he retreated,
saying he would have voted for the plan.  Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , a potential
White House contender, voted for the legislation. She later told
Fox News that “put an asterisk on my support” because of
concern about “shifting the cost to senior citizens.”  Pawlenty, Romney  Former Governor Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, a declared
candidate, and former Governor Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, who
is exploring a bid, have said they plan to offer their own
Medicare plans, while offering kind words for Ryan’s.  “If you are a Republican, you got a big problem” because
of the Medicare proposal, Altschuler said. The Democratic
victory in the 26th District “says basically that the Ryan plan
is an albatross around your neck.”  Abramowitz said “the interesting thing” will be how many
Republican senators decide to “jump the ship along with Scott Brown” when Democrats, who control the Senate, force a vote on
the Ryan plan as early as this week. “That will be a sign of
what’s going on,” he said.  Brown, a Republican senator who won a special election in
heavily Democratic Massachusetts last year in a race that
focused on President Barack Obama’s health-care overhaul,
announced May 23 he would vote against Ryan’s plan. He is
seeking a full term next year. Republican Senator  Susan Collins 
of  Maine  also has said she opposes the plan.  Republican-Leaning District  Republicans who previously represented the core of what is
now New York’s  26th District  included Jack Kemp, the former
National Football League quarterback who was his party’s vice
presidential nominee in 1996. Republican presidential nominee
 John McCain  got 56 percent of the district’s vote in 2008.  The House vacancy occurred when Republican Representative
Christopher Lee resigned Feb. 9 after a bare-chested  photo  of
the married lawmaker surfaced on the Internet. Lee, who had won
a second term in November with about 74 percent of the vote,
quit hours after the gossip website Gawker reported that he had
e-mailed the picture to a woman he had met online.  Hochul’s win shrinks the Republican House majority to 240-
193, with special elections yet to be held to fill seats vacated
by Democrat Jane Harman in  California  and Republican Dean Heller
in Nevada.  Outside Spending  The race sparked more than $1.6 million in spending from
the House’s Republican and Democratic fundraising committees, as
well as by outside entities. Among those supporting Corwin were
the American Crossroads group founded by Republican strategist
Karl Rove, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the American Action
Network.  “This election is a wake-up call for anyone who thinks
that 2012 will be just like 2010,” American Crossroads
President Steven Law said in a statement. “Democrats will be
more competitive, and we need to play at the top of our game to
win big next year.”  Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the Democratic National Committee
chairwoman, said the election “demonstrates that Republican and
independent voters, along with Democrats, will reject extreme
policies like ending Medicare.”  Hochul benefited from spending by labor unions and the
House Majority PAC, formed by Democratic operatives to counter
Republican-leaning groups that helped spur their party’s gains
in 2010.  Davis, the third-party candidate, had been a lifelong
Republican who switched parties to unsuccessfully seek the House
seat as a Democrat in 2004, 2006 and 2008. After returning to
the  Republican Party  and losing the special election nomination,
he secured the Tea Party ballot slot. Many Tea Party activists
disowned him.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 