-- 
Diageo Said in Talks to Buy Jose Cuervo Tequila for More Than $2 Billion

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 
2011-05-25T10:28:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/diageo-said-in-talks-to-buy-jose-cuervo-tequila-for-more-than-2-billion.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the maker of Johnnie
Walker scotch and Smirnoff vodka, is in talks to buy Jose
Cuervo, the world’s biggest tequila brand, for more than $2
billion from its family owners, according to three people with
knowledge of the matter.  Cuervo is in exclusive discussions with Diageo, which has
the first option to buy the company because of its international
distribution rights to the brand, said one of the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are confidential.
The negotiations may not lead to a deal because the Beckmann
family hasn’t committed to selling, the people said. The
Beckmanns are leaning toward a sale, one person said.  Other liquor companies including  Pernod-Ricard SA (RI)  are
interested in the business as well, the people said. Diageo
hasn’t yet formally retained bankers to advise on a transaction,
while Cuervo is using Barclays Capital to explore options and
negotiate a potential sale, the people said.  “This would be a good deal for the company as it would
give it materially more exposure to a category on a clear upward
trend,” Andy Smith, an analyst at MF Global in  London , wrote in
a research note. Smith said he’s confident that Diageo wouldn’t
have to issue equity to fund an acquisition of Cuervo.  Diageo spokesman Stephen Doherty declined to comment. The
company has expressed interest in buying the asset in the past.
A spokeswoman for  Barclays Capital  declined to comment. E-mails
and phone messages left with the secretary for Jose Cuervo Chief
Executive Officer Angel Abarrategui weren’t returned.  Fortune Brands  Diageo fell 3 pence, or 0.2 percent, to 1,261 pence at
11:17 a.m. in London trading. The stock has gained 6.4 percent
this year, giving the company a market value of 32 billion
pounds ($52 billion).  Diageo, the world’s largest liquor maker, has been
expanding in emerging markets and plans to make purchases in
places where growth is faster, its chief financial officer said
earlier this year. The London-based company agreed to buy
 Turkey ’s Mey Icki in February to add the country’s largest maker
of Raki liquor for about $2.1 billion.  The Beckmanns and Diageo are exploring a deal ahead of Jim
Beam maker  Fortune Brands Inc. (FO) ’s plan to split and focus on its
distilled-spirits business, the people said. That has led to
takeover speculation for Beam, which makes Sauza, the world’s
No. 2 tequila brand.  Agave Plant  Buyers have paid an average of 13.3 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for spirit and
winemakers in the past decade, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Cuervo might have Ebitda of $125 million, analysts at
Nomura estimated in a May 4 note. A price of $2 billion would
imply a multiple of 16 times Ebitda, the Nomura analysts said.  Juan Beckmann Vidal, chairman of Casa Cuervo, said in an
interview with Reuters this month that the company was
renegotiating its distribution deal with Diageo and wasn’t
considering selling the brand.  Jose Antonio de Cuervo obtained land from the King of Spain
in 1758, and the first Vino Mezcal de Tequila de Jose Cuervo was
made in 1795, according to the brand’s  website . All Jose Cuervo
is made in Tequila, in the Mexican state of Jalisco. Tequila is
made from the blue agave plant and has to be produced in a
designated area to be labeled Tequila, the website says.  The Sunday Times in March reported that Diageo was
considering an offer for Jose Cuervo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net ; 