-- 
DP World to Start London Trading in June as It Seeks to Attract Investors

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-05-25T12:01:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/dp-world-to-start-london-trading-in-june-as-it-seeks-to-attract-investors.html
DP World Ltd. (DPW)  will start trading on
the London Stock Exchange from June 1 as the Dubai World-
controlled company seeks to attract investors after low trading
volumes in its home market.  "DP World believes that a dual listing between the London
Stock Exchange and Nasdaq Dubai will help attract a broader
range of investors," the company that operates ports from  Europe 
to  Asia  said in an e-mailed statement today. "DP World’s
operational performance has been very strong since listing in
2007, outperforming the industry."  DP World raised $4.96 billion in the Middle East’s biggest
initial public offering in November 2007 and trades on Nasdaq
Dubai. The company said last year it would seek a listing in
 London  to improve investors’ perception of its value after the
shares slumped. The shares are up 6 percent this year. They
soared 36 percent the previous two years after tumbling 68
percent in 2008.  The company in March reported a better-than-expected 13
percent increase in full-year profit to $374.8 million, helped
by a rebound in global trade and improved profit margins. The
port operator’s 49 operational terminals posted 12 percent
growth in gross volumes to 12.6 million twenty-foot equivalent
units in the first quarter, helped by growth in the United Arab
Emirates,  Africa  and the Americas, it said May 11.  DP World earlier today had its outlook revised to
"positive" from "stable" at Standard & Poor’s Rating Services.
The "BB" long-term corporate credit and "B" short-term corporate
credit ratings were affirmed at the rating agency.  The shares dropped 1.8 percent today, the most since April
14, to $13.35.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  