-- 
Dubai’s Shares Drop to Lowest in Two Months on Europe Debt, Growth Concern

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-05-25T13:27:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/dubai-shares-drop-a-fifth-day-led-by-emaar-on-europe-debt-crisis-concern.html
Persian Gulf shares retreated,
sending Dubai’s index to a more than two-month low, as emerging-
market stocks slumped amid concern  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis will spread and slow the global recovery. Oil declined.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , builder of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, declined a third day this week.  Dubai Islamic Bank
PJSC (DIB) , the United Arab Emirates’ biggest bank complying with
Shariah rules, dropped 1.9 percent. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  lost
1.2 percent to 1,526.39, the lowest since March 22, at the 2
p.m. close in Dubai. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  slipped 0.2
percent and the MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 0.6 percent.  “The euro macro theme is predominant at the moment,
influencing risk appetite,” said Anastasios Dalgiannakis, a
Dubai-based trader at Mubasher Financial Services.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index decreased 0.8 percent,
while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose less than 0.1 percent.
European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told French newspaper  Les Echos  that Greek debt maturities
could be extended on a voluntary basis, a process he referred to
as “reprofiling.” Meanwhile,  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads
the group of euro-area finance ministers, said an assessment on
new measures for Greece may come as soon as next week.  Crude for July delivery fell as much as 1.4 percent to
$98.20 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council,
including the U.A.E. and Qatar, supply about a fifth of the
world’s oil.  Emaar dropped 1.6 percent to 3.02 dirhams. Dubai Islamic
declined to 2.04 dirhams, the lowest level since March 3.
 Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC)  lost 1.6 percent to 1.27 dirhams, the lowest
since March 23, after the biggest construction company in the
U.A.E. by market value was cut to “neutral” from “buy” at
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE with a 12-month price estimate of 1.46
dirhams a share.  Oman’s gauge declined 0.2 percent and Qatar’s QE Index
slipped 0.5 percent.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  and Kuwait’s
measure fell 0.6 percent. Bahrain’s BB All Share Index decreased
0.1 percent. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  advanced 0.2
percent, bringing its weekly gain to 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  