-- 
Durable Goods Orders in U.S. Decline by Most in Six Months

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-05-25T20:15:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/durable-goods-orders-in-u-s-dropped-3-6-in-april-the-most-in-six-months.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods dropped
more than forecast in April, reflecting a slump in aircraft
demand and disruptions in supplies of auto parts stemming from
the earthquake in Japan.  The 3.6 percent decrease in bookings for goods meant to
last at least three years was the biggest since October and
followed a 4.4 percent surge in March that was larger than
previously estimated, a Commerce Department report showed today
in Washington. Economists projected a 2.5 percent April decline,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Bookings for  Boeing Co. (BA)  aircraft slumped last month and
vehicle makers slowed production due to a components shortage
that may be short-lived as Japanese factories recover. At the
same time, rising overseas sales at manufacturers such as  Deere
& Co. (DE)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  indicate the industry will keep
driving the U.S. expansion.  “Manufacturing is likely to moderate from the explosive
pace of growth in the past few months,” said  Stephen Stanley ,
chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . At the same time, “consumer demand and investment
demand are both doing well right now,” he said.  Orders excluding the volatile transportation equipment
category decreased 1.5 percent in April after a 2.5 percent
gain. The median projection in the Bloomberg survey was for a
0.5 percent rise, with estimates ranging from a drop of 1.2
percent to an increase of 1.8 percent.  Economists’ Projections  Estimates of total durable goods orders in the Bloomberg
survey of 81 economists ranged from a drop of 5.7 percent to a
gain of 2 percent.  While manufacturing has spearheaded the economic recovery,
housing has struggled.  Home prices  dropped 2.5 percent in the
first quarter from the prior three months, the Washington-based
Federal Housing Finance Agency said today.  The measure, based on properties with loans backed by
mortgage financiers  Fannie Mae  or  Freddie Mac , has declined for
16 straight quarters as lenders seize homes and sell them at
cut-rate prices that drag down overall values.  Stocks rose for the first time in four days as shares of
commodity producers advanced. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
gained 0.3 percent to 1,320.47 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York .
Treasuries securities were little changed.  Boeing Orders  Chicago-based Boeing, the world’s largest aerospace
company, said it received two orders last month compared with 98
in March. Industry data may not correlate precisely with the
government statistics on a month-to-month basis.  Today’s report showed a 30 percent slump in civilian plane
orders and an 8.9 percent drop in military aircraft. Bookings
excluding military equipment fell 3.6 percent in April.  A recurring pattern of declines in equipment orders at the
start of a quarter probably also helped depress the April
figures, economists have said.  Non-defense orders for durable goods excluding aircraft, a
proxy for business investment in items such as computers,
engines and communications gear, decreased 2.6 percent in April.
These orders increased 5.4 percent a month earlier. Since the
end of 2005, these bookings have dropped in the first month of a
quarter in all but three instances.  Weaker Demand  Demand fell for machinery, fabricated metals, electrical
equipment and computers and related products, today’s report
showed.  Shipments of non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
used in calculating gross domestic product, decreased 1.7
percent after rising 3.7 percent in the prior month.  Disruptions related to the March earthquake and tsunami in
 Japan  led to a plunge in U.S. automobile output, causing
industrial production to stall in April, a Federal Reserve
report showed last week.  Today’s report showed bookings for motor vehicles and parts
dropped 4.5 percent in April, the most since August 2010, after
a 6.6 percent gain.  Economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York yesterday
cut their second-quarter U.S. growth projection to 2.5 percent
from a previous estimate of 3 percent.  “The main factor behind our revision is weaker output of
the auto vehicle sector,” JPMorgan’s chief U.S. economist
 Michael Feroli  wrote in an e-mail. Part of the slowdown in
production is due to supply disruptions caused by the disaster
in Japan, he said.  Regional Figures  Other data showed manufacturing in the Philadelphia region
grew in May at the slowest pace in seven months, while a measure
of the industry in the Richmond, Virginia, region showed
contraction. The  Federal Reserve  Bank of Richmond’s gauge
dropped to minus 6 this month, the lowest since April 2009.
Negative figures indicate manufacturing was shrinking.  Still, overseas sales and corporate investment may be a
backstop for manufacturers in coming months. Deere, the world’s
largest farm-equipment maker, this month raised its fiscal 2011
earnings forecast amid increasing global demand for agriculture
and construction equipment.  General Electric’s operating profit growth will accelerate
in this year’s second half, and a pickup in sales of energy-
efficient products such as gas turbines will help to drive
earnings gains next year, according to Chief Executive Officer
 Jeffrey Immelt .  “Our 2011 framework is turning positive and we see when we
look at incoming orders and things like that, there’s nothing to
derail that on a global basis,” Immelt, who also is chairman of
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE, said at a conference on May 18.
“We’re very well positioned for 2012 and beyond.”  Federal Reserve  Economists project that even with smaller gains,
manufacturing will contribute to economic growth this year. Fed
officials are discussing strategies to begin tightening policy
after completing the purchase of $600 billion in U.S. Treasuries
by the end of June.  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said that while first-quarter growth was a disappointment, the
slow pace isn’t likely to last.  “I think the economy will be reasonably robust in the
second quarter and the second half of the year,” he said in a
May 23 speech. Manufacturing has been “fairly good” and
household spending has “held up well,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  