-- 
The IMF’s Electoral Math Doesn’t Add Up

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-05-25T17:11:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/the-imf-s-electoral-math-doesn-t-add-up.html
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde , now a formal candidate to become the International
Monetary Fund’s next chief, enjoys decisive support and may well
get the post. The chances of any non-European vaulting ahead of
her were always remote, given that IMF voting power is tilted
heavily in  Europe ’s favor. For the good of the fund, the next
IMF boss should pledge to eliminate this inequity.  The emerging markets are not without leverage. They can use
their increasingly powerful voice to demand that this election
be the start of a transition away from Europe and toward  Asia ,
 Latin America  and even Africa.  In return for one more Euro-centric election, IMF leaders
should agree to accelerate voting-rights changes now under way,
so that future elections are based on worldwide searches for the
best candidate.  Willingness to back such changes would justify a full five-
year term for the next leader. Otherwise, as  Brazil  is smartly
arguing, the new chief’s term of office should last only through
December, 2012. That’s when the tenure of Dominique Strauss- Kahn, the former managing director awaiting trial on sexual-
assault charges, would have ended.  To see what’s wrong with the electoral math, consider
Belgium and Brazil. Belgium is the world’s 20th largest economy,
with a 1.86 percent voting share in the IMF. Brazil is a vastly
larger and more populous nation, ranked in the world’s top 10
economies, with triple Belgium’s output. At the IMF, however,
Brazil is the weakling with just 1.72 percent of the vote.  China , the world’s second largest economy, ranks sixth in
IMF voting power, behind the U.S.,  Japan , Germany, France and
Britain. The IMF has been gradually realigning voting shares
since 2006, and China is due to rise to No. 3 in voting power
next year. That still lags economic reality.  Dated Distortions  The distortions date back to the 1940s when the developed
world of Europe and the U.S. had most of the world’s cash, know-
how and leadership. Voting rights were skewed accordingly. Under
a gentleman’s agreement among nations, the U.S. claimed the top
job at the World Bank, which provides development aid, while
Europe took the IMF, with its emphasis on government rescue
loans and austerity plans.  Now, the notion of permanent European or U.S. leadership at
either agency seems antiquated. When France’s Strauss-Kahn
resigned May 18 after his arrest in New York, economists
identified finance experts in  Singapore ,  Mexico ,  India  and South
 Africa  who could become the IMF’s next chief. Well-qualified
contenders abound.  Picking Lagarde keeps a well-connected European in charge
of the half-finished work of resolving Greece’s debt woes. Even
if second-guessers think the IMF should have treated Greece more
sternly last year, a radical switch in strategy now risks chaos.
But changing fortunes demand an IMF that transcends its European
past.  Triple-A Grade  Some $3 trillion of currency reserves, 31% of the global
total, is held by China, according to Bloomberg News. Former IMF
borrowers such as South Korea and Chile now sport single-A or
double-A credit ratings. Singapore has a triple-A grade.  By contrast, debt troubles in Europe have touched off a
flurry of ratings cuts and IMF rescue loans. Meanwhile,
countries such as Brazil, India, Mexico, Singapore and  South
Africa  are producing technocrats just as astute as their
counterparts in European finance ministries. The IMF itself has
trained an impressive cadre of international economists from
non-European countries.  As leading non-European countries gain voting strength,
they will need to provide more of the IMF’s capital. They can
easily afford to do so. In fact, owning IMF shares generally has
been a good investment. This new prominence will also require
the emerging economies to recognize that with power comes
responsibility: It will fall to them to look beyond their
immediate self-interest and help resolve future financial
crises.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this editorial:
Paula Dwyer in  New York  at 
 pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  