-- 
ECB Rules Leave More Room for Greek Restructuring Than Rhetoric Suggests

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-05-26T09:49:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/ecb-rules-leave-more-room-for-greek-restructuring-than-rhetoric-suggests.html
European Central Bank officials may
have more scope to cope with a Greek restructuring than they are
letting on even as policy makers warn that such a move could
trigger the beginning of a “horror story.”  While German and French officials say the ECB would no
longer accept Greek debt as collateral in its money-market
operations should the country be forced to default, the ECB’s
rules are less clear and only say that such a step “may be
warranted” if officials deem it necessary. The ECB’s rhetoric
may be as much about forcing  Greece  to step up budget cuts as it
is about drawing a line in the sand, say Citigroup Inc. and
Deutsche Bank AG economists.  “Without these ECB warnings, the Greeks wouldn’t have come
up with the announcement of additional measures,” said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-area economist at Citigroup in London. “The
ECB showed early with the eligibility requirements on collateral
rules that they can stretch the whole thing pretty far.”  European policy makers are seeking ways to restore investor
confidence on increasing concern that Greece won’t be able to
repay its debts after last year’s 110 billion euro ($155
billion) bailout. While finance ministers are mulling options
such as extending maturities, ECB policy makers have argued that
such steps could destroy Greece’s banking system and destabilize
other nations in the 17-member euro region.  ‘Devastating’ Impact  “Restructuring is not a solution, it’s a horror story,”
ECB council member  Christian Noyer  said on May 24. His Spanish
colleague Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said last month such a
move would “very probably” have systemic consequences “quite
likely more devastating than” the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  While restructuring is “one option” to reduce the
country’s debt load, “it is better to keep up pressure on
Greece” to implement reforms, Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  told Germany’s Financial Times Deutschland. Greece may
need more time to meet its targets, German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in an interview with the Handelsblatt
newspaper published today.  Nouriel Roubini, the economist who predicted the global
financial crisis, said in Bucharest today that ECB council
members’ remarks on the impact of a Greek default were “utter
nonsense” and could “trigger a bank run in Greece.”  Greek Deficit  The ECB is for now sticking to its line that tougher
austerity programs are the only way out of a quagmire that will
see the country’s debt jump to almost 158 percent of gross
domestic product this year. Greece’s budget shortfall may
average 9.5 percent of GDP this year, the European Commission
says. That’s the second-largest gap after Ireland.  The Greek government this week endorsed an accelerated
asset-sale plan and a package of budget cuts in an effort to
meet requirements for a fifth tranche under its bailout
agreements with the European Union, the Washington-based
 International Monetary Fund  and the ECB.  Without it, Prime Minister George Papandreou’s government
would be forced into a restructuring. Credit-default swaps on
Greece fell 29 basis points today to 1,388 basis points,
according to CMA. That’s down from a record 1,473 basis points
on May 24.  ECB Rules  The ECB may still find room for maneuver as the Greek bond-
market sell-off intensifies on concern that tougher austerity
measures won’t be enough to ward off a default.  The Frankfurt-based central bank’s  own rules  say that “a
suspension, limitation or exclusion of counterparties may be
warranted in some of the cases which fall within the notion of
the ‘default’ of a counterparty.”  One option for the ECB may be to embrace a so-called Vienna
Initiative proposal floated by Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn , which aims to persuade creditors to buy
new bonds from the Greek government when existing ones mature.
Just under half of the ECB’s 23-member Governing Council is
currently in favor of the idea, according to a person familiar
with the matter, who declined to be identified because the
discussions are private.  “Given all the options on the table, this is probably the
one that the ECB could live with,” Citigroup’s Michels said.  The Vienna Initiative was a key plank in the IMF-sponsored
rescues of  Hungary , Romania,  Latvia  and  Serbia  in 2009. Under
the plan, banks including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) , and  Societe Generale  SA, then the biggest
lenders in eastern  Europe , publicly pledged to keep their units
in those countries afloat by rolling over funding and providing
fresh capital if needed.  ‘Genuinely Voluntary’  The risk for the ECB is that such a proposal would fail to
garner enough support to prevent ratings companies classifying
the move as a default.  It would have to be “genuinely voluntary,” said Alastair
Wilson, chief credit officer for Europe at Moody’s Investors
Service. “If we concluded that there was an element of
compulsion, we would very likely class this as a default.”  That would render Greek bonds ineligible as collateral in
ECB refinancing operations, according to council members such as
 France ’s Noyer,  Germany ’s Jens Weidmann and Juergen Stark of the
Executive Board. Banks have been reliant on the ECB for funding
after being shut off financial markets.  ‘Complete Havoc’  The threat of that happening may force the ECB into a
compromise, say Deutsche Bank economists Gilles Moec and Mark Wall. In May 2010, the ECB suspended its minimum credit-rating
threshold for Greece, just four months after President Jean- Claude Trichet said that he wouldn’t change central bank rules
for just one member state.  “There is probably a limit to the ECB’s mantra on ‘no
restructuring,’” they said in a note on May 20. Otherwise it
“would have to bear the responsibility of the subsequent crisis
for the Greek banking sector. Would the ECB take the
responsibility to ‘make things even worse’? We seriously doubt
it.”  Nor would the damage be restricted to Greek banks.
Citigroup estimates that about a third of the county’s debt, or
109 billion euros, is held by so-called foreign non-banks
including mutual, pension or sovereign-wealth funds as well as
insurers. Greek financial institutions own about 29 percent.  The ECB and the 17 national central banks have about 130
billion euros of risk from Greek debt,  Andrew Bosomworth , a  fund
manager  at Pacific Investment Management Co., told reporters in
Paris yesterday. Germany, France and other euro nations may need
to recapitalize their central banks in the case of a default,
which might be “inevitable,” he said.  “If you write those down by half, you wipe out the entire
capital stock of the Greek banking system,” said  Klaus Baader ,
an economist at Societe Generale in  London . “Complete havoc
would be wreaked with the ECB’s ability to conduct monetary
policy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Black in Vienna at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  