-- 
Medtronic’s Infuse Bone Product Raises Risk of Male Infertility

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-05-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/medtronic-spinal-bone-product-raises-male-infertility-risk-study-shows.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ’s Infuse, a
genetically engineered protein used to spur the growth of new
bone after spinal surgery, increases the risk of infertility in
men following some operations, researchers said.  While infertility was raised by U.S. regulators before
approving Infuse in 2002, questions lingered, said  Eugene
Carragee , chief of spinal surgery at Stanford School of Medicine
in  Palo Alto ,  California . Studies funded by Minneapolis-based
Medtronic didn’t mention the side effect, and the clean safety
profile led doctors to embrace the therapy that can eliminate
painful harvesting of bone or reduce the need for screws and
plates, he said.  The study published in the June issue of  The Spine Journal 
found 7.2 percent of Carragee’s patients treated with Infuse
during spine surgery developed  retrograde ejaculation , when
semen is misdirected into the bladder, compared with 0.6 percent
of those who didn’t get the product. As many as 95,000 Americans
each year undergo the operation, in which surgeons go through
the front of the body to repair the spine, and about half of
them receive  Infuse .  “This product became quite fashionable when it came out,
and it started to be used in people who didn’t have any risk
factors” that might have hindered bone growth, Carragee said in
a telephone interview. “For someone who is young and healthy,
they are probably going to heal just fine. In men who might want
children, they should be counseled to think about what the
alternatives are.”  About 1,000 Men  He calculated that an estimated 1,000 men may be faced with
sterility each year from using the product. The product may
cause inflammation or irritation that affects nerves in front of
the spine used to control the sphincter during ejaculation.  Medtronic disclosed data to the  U.S. Food and Drug
Administration  showing retrograde ejaculation was a potential
side effect of the surgery and broke down the results depending
on whether patients received Infuse, said Marybeth Thorsgaard, a
Medtronic spokeswoman. The findings also appear on the product’s
label, she said in an e-mail.  Medtronic generated $3.4 billion in sales from its spinal
unit in the 2011 fiscal year ended April 29, a 2.5 percent
decrease from a year earlier, the company said yesterday in a
statement. Medtronic doesn’t specify Infuse revenue in its
earnings reports.  Since the product’s U.S. approval, spine surgeons have
reported various complications with it, wrote  James Kang , from
the University of Pittsburgh’s department of orthopedic surgery,
in an editorial. There have been reports of inflammatory
reactions, sterile cyst formation, bone damage, loss of
alignment and, when used in the cervical spine, potentially
life-threatening airway complications, Kang wrote.  There is no firm evidence that Infuse improves results for
patients and it increases the cost of treatment, he said. The
new findings add to the growing list of potential complications
that stem from using the product, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  