-- 
Education-Funds Contest Expands to Preschool, More States

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-25T15:04:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/education-funds-contest-expands-to-preschool-more-states-1-.html
The Obama administration’s funding
competition for states to boost education standards will be
expanded to preschool programs, and will let nine of the states
that failed to win money in earlier rounds apply for grants.  The  Race to the Top  Early Learning Challenge will offer a
total of $500 million to states that create plans to set higher
standards for preschools and expand and improve their staff, the
Education Department said today in a  statement .  The latest round of funding brings the value of the program
to about $5 billion, said  Justin Hamilton , a department
spokesman. Race to the Top has already awarded as much as $400
million to 11 states and the District of Columbia that stiffened
standards and instituted merit-pay linking teachers’
compensation to student achievement. Boosting early learning can
make a lifelong difference in children’s chances for success,
Vice President Joe Biden said in the statement.  “For kids, high-quality early learning programs mean they
will enter school better prepared with a greater chance of
finishing high school and college,” said Biden, who is also
chairman of the administration’s Middle Class Task Force.
“Expanding access to such early education and child care
programs will also make it easier for working parents to hold
down a job.”  Nine more states that didn’t win money last year will be
eligible to apply for an additional $200 million in funding for
their elementary, middle and high schools, according to a
separate  statement .  Nine States  The administration began awarding Race to the Top funds
last year to states that scored the highest on a 500-point scale
for reaching goals. In all, 46 states and the  District of
Columbia  applied for the grants.  Nine of the states that didn’t win grants --  Arizona ,
 California , Colorado,  Illinois , Kentucky, Louisiana,
 Pennsylvania , New Jersey and South Carolina -- can seek funding
ranging from $10 million to $50 million, the Education
Department said today.  These states were selected to reapply because they have
demonstrated “capacity and commitment around bold reform plans,”
according to the statement.  “These funds will encourage states to continue their
courageous work to challenge the status quo and build on the
momentum for education reform happening in our classrooms,
schools and communities,” Education Secretary Arne Duncan said
today.  New Jersey lost out on a grant last year because of a
mistake on its application.  New Jersey  Governor Chris Christie
fired Education Commissioner Bret Schundler after the error was
discovered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in  Boston  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  