-- 
Edwin van der Sar’s ‘Long Road’ May Lead to Third Champions League Title

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-25T11:45:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/edwin-van-der-sar-s-long-road-may-lead-to-third-champions-league-title.html
Edwin van der Sar is looking to end
his soccer career with one more Champions League title. His
Manchester United teammates are asking him for one more year.  The 40-year-old will be in goal for United in the European
Cup final at Wembley Stadium in  London  when the English champion
takes on Barcelona in three days. Van der Sar, who’s won the cup
with Ajax in 1995 and United in 2008, will retire at the end.  Five years after his debut with Amsterdam’s Ajax, the 1.98
meter (6-foot-6) goalkeeper was in goal as a team of mostly
home-grown players including Edgar Davids, Patrick Kluivert,
Clarence Seedorf and the De Boer brothers upset AC Milan 1-0 in
the European Cup final. He had to wait 13 years before
winning the trophy for a second time, when his penalty save from
 Nicolas Anelka  brought United victory over Chelsea in a
shootout.  “Of course when you win the first one that’s great and the
second year we reached the final and lost it against Juventus,
the third year we went to the semifinal so you sort of expect
and think that every year you’re going to play the final,” Van
der Sar told reporters at United’s training ground yesterday.
“At a certain point it stops and it took a long time to get
back again to that experience, playing those kinds of games.”  Van der Sar, who’s represented the Netherlands at the  World
Cup  and also the European Championship, might not have had the
opportunity to return to club soccer’s top stage had United
previously been able to find a consistent goalkeeper. The Red
Devils’ manager  Alex Ferguson  tried several stoppers before
turning to Van der Sar when he was 34 and playing for Fulham, a
mid-table Premier League team that’s never won the English
championship.  Top Stage  “There are certain criteria to be a goalkeeper here: good
experience, personality and a track record,” Ferguson said in
October. “Edwin has all of those qualities. He didn’t cost us a
lot of money, about 2 million pounds ($3.2 million), so he’s
right up there with my best signings. I just wish we had signed
him earlier, to be honest.”  Van der Sar has won four English titles, including this
season’s, since joining United from Fulham in 2005. His
teammates say they’d like him to stay.  “When we won the league all the boys were singing ‘One
more year, one more year,’” midfielder Michael Carrick said.  Van der Sar was the oldest player in the Premier League
last season. He left Ajax for  Italy ’s Juventus in 1999 before
signing for Fulham two years later.  Nervous  “I’m working on my biography in Holland at the moment,”
he said. “You speak about some things, and you see some
pictures and think, ‘Wow, honestly that’s a lifetime ago.’
Without mobile phones, internet, those types of things. It’s
been a long road but very enjoyable.”  In the 2009 final, Barcelona beat United 2-0 after
outplaying Ferguson’s team in  Rome . The previous year, the Red
Devils beat Barcelona 1-0 in a two-match semifinal before going
on to beat Chelsea. Barca supplied six starters to  Spain ’s World
Cup-winning team last year and also features FIFA World Player
of the Year Lionel Messi. Van der Sar said he’ll be nervous
before the game.  “You need a certain tension to play the game,” he said.
“If you’re too laid back you’re not able to react to what you
want to do. So it’ll be a little more than a normal game. And
we’re going have to make sure we win it.”  Van der Sar says he’ll move into coaching and spend time
watching his 13-year-old son play for United’s junior team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London on  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 