-- 
Emerging-Market Equities Retreat Amid Economic Growth, Earnings Concerns

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-05-25T21:43:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/emerging-market-equities-retreat-amid-economic-growth-earnings-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, with
almost two shares dropping for each one that gained on the
benchmark index, amid concern that tighter monetary policies
will hit company earnings and hurt the global economic recovery.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 0.6 percent to
1,118.02 at 4:30 p.m.  New York  time. The Bombay Stock Exchange
Sensitive Index lost 0.9 percent after the government’s chief
economic adviser said the country may miss its budget deficit
target and as the biggest developer’s profit trailed estimates.
 China ’s Shanghai Composite Index slumped 0.9 percent and is now
down 10 percent from this year’s high. Brazil’s benchmark stock
index advanced for a second day on rising commodity prices.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. led declines
among lenders in Shanghai trading after  Standard & Poor’s  said
policy tightening may spur a jump in credit losses and weaken
profitability. China’s central bank has raised the reserve-
requirement ratio for banks 11 times and boosted rates four
times since the start of 2010 to cool inflation, which has
exceeded the government target each month this year.  “The real economy is starting to slow down and that’s
going to weigh down on corporate earnings,” said Lee King Fuei,
a Singapore-based  fund manager  at Schroders Plc, which oversaw
$325 billion as of March 31.  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slid 1.3 percent to the lowest
close since March 23. Samsung Electronics Co.,  Asia ’s biggest
maker of chips, flat screens and mobile phones, sank 1 percent
in  Seoul  and  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  tumbled 4 percent.  MOL Retreats  Hungary’s BUX Index retreated 1.2 percent. MOL Nyrt., the
country’s biggest oil company, declined 2.8 percent after the
Hungarian government announced it bought a 21.2 percent stake
from  Russia ’s OAO Surgutneftegas.  Turkey’s main ISE National 100 share index lost 1.5 percent
as the central bank left its benchmark interest rate unchanged
and didn’t mention an expected rise in bank reserve
requirements. An increase of 100 basis points to 17 percent was
the median forecast among analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Brazil ’s Bovespa climbed 0.1 percent, rising for a second
day, as higher commodity prices lifted producers and a report
signaled inflation may be easing in  Sao Paulo . Steelmaker Gerdau
SA rose 2.2 percent to the highest in two weeks.  Oil climbed 1.7 percent to a two-week high of $101.32 a
barrel in New York after a U.S. Energy Department report showed
that U.S. inventories of distillate fuel, a category that
includes diesel and heating oil, tumbled to the lowest level in
more than two years as consumption increased. Prior to the
report, oil fell as much as 1.4 percent.  Petrobras Gains  Petroleo Brasileiro SA advanced 0.2 percent as Chief
Executive Officer Jose Sergio Gabrielli said Brazil’s state-
controlled oil company may sell more debt this year after
issuing $6 billion of dollar-denominated bonds in January.  Grupo Mexico SAB, the country’s largest mining company,
increased 2.7 percent as copper and gold rose.  India ’s  DLF Ltd. (DLFU)  plunged 4.1 percent to a two-year low
after saying fourth-quarter earnings dropped 19 percent on
higher land and construction costs.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries narrowed two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 305, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps was up one basis
point to 193.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  