-- 
Emerging Countries Can Rally Behind Own Single IMF Candidate, Gordhan Says

-- B y   K e l l y   C r e g g   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-05-25T17:18:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/emerging-countries-can-rally-behind-own-single-imf-candidate-gordhan-says.html
South Africa ’s Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  said emerging-market countries must be given time
to agree on a common candidate for the  International Monetary
Fund’s  top post.  “If 27 countries in  Europe  can discuss a few names, the
emerging countries are capable of doing that as well,” Gordhan
said in an interview in Paris today. “The key is that they
should be given some time to canvass their respective views and
try to find some convergence around one or more candidates.”  The European Union is backing French Finance Minister
 Christine Lagarde , who today declared her candidacy for the
post. Europe has historically put forward all IMF heads.
Emerging-market countries have yet to agree on a candidate for
the job, from which  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  stepped down this
month to contest sexual-assault charges.  China and  Brazil , the two largest emerging market
economies, may also back Lagarde over the candidacy of Mexican
central bank governor, Agustin Carstens, as the Washington-based
lender seeks to pick a successor to Strauss-Kahn by the end of
June.  Gordhan said European countries had previously agreed that
Strauss-Kahn’s successor would be from outside the continent.  More Transparency  “At the G-20 level we said we want transparency, we want
merit, we don’t want nationality to be factors and above all a
commitment that Europe made when Strauss-Kahn was elected, which
is that there wouldn’t be another European to follow,” he said.  The selection of a new IMF head comes at a time when
developing countries are lobbying for a greater say in
international organizations as some amongst them overtake their
more developed peers in the size of their economies.  “We’re now living in environment where it’s not just
traditional European countries whose concerns must be taken into
account, but we have very strong emerging markets and less
developing countries that have strong concerns,” Gordhan said.  While former South African Finance Minister  Trevor Manuel 
has been named as a possible candidate for the job, he has yet
to say that he is willing to accept the position.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 in London at 
 kcregg@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  