-- 
English Says New Zealand Economy ‘Hooked’ to Demand From China, Australia

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 
2011-05-25T03:22:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/english-says-new-zealand-economy-hooked-to-demand-from-china-australia.html
New Zealand ’s economic recovery is
benefiting from stronger Asian demand for agricultural
commodities and export prices that may remain elevated in the
next two years, Finance Minister Bill English said.  “What underpins that is the highest export prices we’ve
had in many years,” English said from  Singapore  in an interview
today on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move  Asia .”  Prime Minister John Key’s government last week forecast New
Zealand’s economy will grow 3.8 percent in 2012 and 3.3 percent
in 2013, buoyed by shipments and a rebuilding after an
earthquake hit Christchurch in February. Prices of milk powder
and cheese have been supported by demand from  China , while
shipments to Australia have increased as that economy
experiences a boom in demand for minerals.  “We are hooked to the China- Australia  train,” English
said of the world’s biggest dairy exporter. New Zealand’s story
“is more about food and protein” and the demand for those
products across Asia “is reasonably solid,” he said.  New Zealand’s dollar extended a decline after English’s
comments, falling to a low of 79.15 U.S. cents from 79.91 cents
in late New York trading yesterday. It bought 79.3 cents at 3
p.m. in Wellington.  Exports from the South Pacific nation to China surged 42
percent to NZ$5.39 billion ($4.3 billion) in the year ended
March 31, according to government figures. Sales to Australia
rose 9 percent to NZ$10.15 billion, making that the biggest
export market.  Record Prices  Prices of New Zealand’s commodity exports gained for an
eighth month to a record in April, according to an index
calculated by ANZ National Bank Ltd.  Shipments have gained even as New Zealand’s currency has
appreciated about 18 percent against the  U.S. dollar  the past
year, a rise English said was stronger than the government
expected.  “It’s a bit of a headwind as we try to rebalance our
economy, but I must say that New Zealand exports seem to have
shown remarkable resilience,” English said. He doesn’t expect
current high commodity prices to remain in place, although they
are likely to be “fairly solid for the next few years.”  In his May 19 budget, English forecast New Zealand will
return to a surplus in 2014-15 as it cuts spending and benefits
from faster economic growth, spurred by rising commodity prices
and rebuilding of earthquake-damaged Christchurch city.  Standard & Poor’s , which has New Zealand’s AA+ sovereign
rating on negative outlook, signaled the nation’s credit rating
is secure as long as budget targets are met, while adding the
focus is on the external debt of the whole economy, which is led
by private borrowing.  New Zealand’s savings rate is improving and the budget is
returning to surplus, and “it is likely the ratings agencies
will be able to respond positively” to that, English said.  English said New Zealand’s government wants to complete a
free-trade agreement with  India  within six months. He also said
the nation is “keen to see a selection based on merit” for the
new head of the  International Monetary Fund .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
Rishaad Salamat in  Hong Kong  at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  