-- 
Tenpenny Lures Bankers; Desmond’s Great Dover Sole: Ryan Sutton

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-05-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/tenpenny-lures-bankers-desmond-s-great-dover-sole-ryan-sutton.html
There are lots of pretty places to
eat in Manhattan. Tenpenny, in Midtown’s  Gotham Hotel , isn’t one
of them.  Tenpenny sits in the shadow of the old Bear Stearns
building -- now occupied by JPMorgan. It feels less like a
restaurant, more like an anonymous brick and wood pub that
happens to serve food. But that food happens to be excellent.  A 10-course tasting menu is $125, so you can linger looking
at the lobby. Fortunately, partner Jeffrey Tascarella also
offers a 6-course “drunken tasting” paired with wine,
cocktails, bourbon and beer. It costs $135.  “We aim to get people intoxicated. So far, we’re batting
1,000,” says Tascarella. Take him at his word -- though I
adhered to a la carte cocktails and comestibles to maintain some
sort of gustatory and cognitive sobriety.  So have a Madison, a  Manhattan  with root beer extract. It
makes the mix of bourbon and vermouth taste like a fountain
drink. It’s the correct pairing for the fast food-style burger.  A stack of greasy griddled patties -- spiked with pork fat
-- sits between a soft potato roll and is served with tomato
chips that provide an acidic tang without any watery mush.  Hot Tots  The $15 burger is a gift to local bankers; a viable
substitute to the lunchtime lines of  Shake Shack . And where else
but Tenpenny can one get a juicy, messy, fried egg and hot
pepper-topped porchetta “banh mi” sandwich? Nowhere.  Stick around for dinner and grab a few pork belly tater
tots -- sounds like bad sports stadium fare, right? Except it
works; each bite has a slick of hard cider sauce that checks all
the meat and potato extravagance with some much-needed mouth
pucker.  This is the kind of place that would be declared the next
Torrisi if it were located in a shiny Mulberry storefront. It’s
not and probably accounts for why Tenpenny isn’t as full as it
should be.  No matter. I’ll feast on the New American fare of chef
Christopher Cipollone by myself. Just skip his pork rack. He
overcooks it just like he used to at the now-closed Faustina.  Go Green  “Spring Vegetables,” an appetizer, is one great salad.  A pile of favas, peas, wax beans, baby carrots and too many
other ingredients to mention are offered raw, roasted, pickled,
dehydrated and candied. The whole platter is then showered with
powdered ranch dressing -- just to bring the whole French affair
back down to summer picnic territory.  Eat pasta. Gnocchi collapse in the mouth. Squid ink
spaghetti and smoky chorizo form a successful tag team to
balance the sweetness of crab.  Bouillabaisse somehow improves upon its time-tested
Marseillaise roots. No saffron here or standard aioli. Paprika
and smoked fish stock bring shocking depth of flavor to “head
on” prawns and sugar-sweet scallops. Ramp rouille adds its
oniony punch. Finish with a dessert of custardy coconut Catalan
and return tomorrow.  Desmond’s  Desmond’s, which offers one of the best Dover soles in New
York, sits opposite the loading docks at Bloomingdales, next to
a pizza joint and diagonal from a lunchtime taco stand.  The ugliest block on the Upper East Side just got botoxed.  Send thank you notes to owner Richard O’Hagan. Expect 25
foot ceilings, a second floor terrace, ladies who wear lapel
pins and men in khakis drinking rose. So Desmond’s isn’t for
everyone. Rather, it’s a much needed alternative for those who
frequent the nearby David Burke Townhouse or Le Caprice.  London-trained chef  David Hart  delivers soul-warming
British-American fare. He takes pork belly and coats it in
caramel, balancing sweet with salt, juxtaposing succulent meat
with silky fat.  He contrasts the rich oil of poached salmon with the tart
bite of curry vinaigrette. Lobster is deep-fried into an oceanic
beer snack, though I suppose champagne would be a better choice
in these aristocratic environs.  Sure, the wait staff might forget to pour the bubbly or
they might spill some on your plate, nearly missing your mushy,
forgettable caviar.  Chef Hart has a bad habit of making expensive items taste
ordinary. Beef Wellington (with no foie gras) is a dry,
overcooked filet mignon in a bready crust with a cloying sauce.
The price starts at $100 (for two).  Skip the undercooked scallops and ho-hum cheese souffle.
Order the $55 Dover sole, which dots every other table.  The queen of flatfish, often outdone by humbler, cheaper
flounder, exerts her royal heritage here with panache. Hart tops
the firm, flaky meat with butter and barely cooked shrimp.
Perfect. Finish with carrot cake and enjoy the smell of
expensive perfume around you.  Desmond’s Rating: * 1/2. Tenpenny Rating: ** 1/2  The Bloomberg Questions  Prices: Most everything’s under $30 at Tenpenny; Desmond’s  boasts pricier, $20-$100 entrees.  Sound Level: Around 70-75 at Desmond’s; a little louder at  Tenpenny when it’s full.  Date Place: Yes, for Desmond’s.  Inside Tip: Solid cocktails at Tenpenny.  Special Feature: Great pretzel rolls at Tenpenny; biscuits  at Desmond’s.  Will I Be Back: Yes, to both.  Tenpenny is at 16 E 46th St. Information: +1-212-490-8300
or  http://www.tenpennynyc.com/   Desmond’s is at 153 E 60th St. Information: +1-212-
207-4949.  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak
up, please. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your date. 66
to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn
because you’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 