-- 
Hepatitis C ‘Silent Epidemic’ in U.S. Needs More Funding, Researcher Says

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-05-25T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/hepatitis-c-silent-epidemic-in-u-s-needs-more-funding-researcher-says.html
Hepatitis C, a disease that affects
at least 5 million Americans, may be growing at a greater rate
than reported as a “silent epidemic” of the virus spreads
among younger people, according to a  New York  epidemiologist.  Inadequate U.S. government funding for prevention,
treatment and research have contributed to the growing public
health problem, said  Brian Edlin , a professor at the State
University of New York Downstate College of Medicine in
 Brooklyn , in an editorial published today in the journal  Nature .  Viral hepatitis will cause about 150,000 deaths in the U.S.
in the next decade as the population of patients with the
disease ages, Edlin wrote. Increased use of injected drugs among
15- to 25-year-olds has unleashed a new wave of hepatitis C
among young people, he said. Injected drug users, the group most
likely to have new infections, rarely experience symptoms after
acquiring the liver disease and are therefore unlikely to seek
medical care and report its transmission, Edlin said  “Hepatitis C has been sort of a quiet epidemic,” Edlin
said in a telephone interview, calling in the editorial for
“urgent investment” similar to moves against HIV. “There
hasn’t been the political pressure exerted to garner the
necessary support for resources to be committed to it.”  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates
there are 20 new infections for each case reported to its
surveillance system, he wrote. About 18,000 people may be newly
infected annually, about one person every 30 minutes, the CDC
estimates suggest.  ‘Ten Times’  “It could be double that or 10 times that and we just
don’t know,” Edlin said, citing government surveillance systems
that don’t account for “disenfranchised” populations such as
homeless people and prisoners. “We have no way of knowing how
many of these infections are occurring.”  In its  action plan  published this month on viral hepatitis,
the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services didn’t include
an intention to increase funding for the disease, a necessary
action to limit its spread, Edlin said.  The action plan “will offer an unprecedented opportunity
to provide Americans, particularly those in vulnerable and
underserved populations, with improved viral hepatitis
prevention, care, and treatment services,” said Howard K. Koh,
assistant secretary for health at HHS. “However, the federal
government cannot do this alone. The prevention, care, and
treatment of viral hepatitis will require leadership at all
levels of government and full engagement of community-based
organizations and the private sector to effectively address the
extraordinary challenges we face with this silent epidemic.”  More Testing  The U.S. should advocate providing hepatitis C testing
wherever HIV tests are available, increase prevention efforts
such as needle-exchange facilities and counseling, and
prioritize research into therapies to improve care, Edlin said.
The disease usually spreads through contact with infected blood.
At least half of patients with hepatitis C could be cured with a
course of therapy over six to 12 months, with new drugs expected
to be more effective, he said.  This month, Merck & Co., of  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey ,
won approval for the first hepatitis C drug in almost a decade,
followed by clearance for another new medicine from  Vertex
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) , based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . A drug
cocktail that has been the standard hepatitis C therapy for the
last decade requires 48 weeks of treatment and fails in about
half of patients. Clinical trials showed the new drugs cured
more patients in less time when used with approved treatments.  AIDS Fight  Government organizations should bring the same focus to
 hepatitis C  as they brought to the fight against HIV, Edlin
said. He estimated the CDC allocated less than $10 million each
for hepatitis C and B in its 2010 prevention budget, compared
with $728 million for HIV, even though five times as many people
are infected with hepatitis C as with HIV, according to his
editorial.  “The  United States  launched a vibrant response to the
HIV/AIDS epidemic and made great advances in surveillance,
prevention, care and treatment by investing in research and
services in these areas,” he wrote. “A timely, proportionate
response to HCV will require leadership and resources. Nothing
less will mitigate the extraordinary toll that viral hepatitis
could take on the public’s health and on the health-care
system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 