-- 
Merck, Novartis, Hershey, La-Z-Boy: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-05-25T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/merck-novartis-hershey-la-z-boy-intellectual-property.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
urged an appeals court to outlaw settlements between brand-drug
manufacturers and generic drugmakers on patent expirations,
saying they harm competition and hurt consumers.  The agency asked the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Philadelphia
to reverse a lower court’s ruling that accords between Merck &
Co.’s Schering-Plough unit and generic manufacturers of K-Dur 20
high blood-pressure medicine didn’t violate antitrust laws.  The FTC is fighting agreements between companies about when
generic drugs can be marketed, known as “pay for delay”
settlements, saying they cost consumers the equivalent of about
$3.5 billion a year in higher prices for pharmaceuticals. The
agency is pressing the courts and Congress to limit the
settlements. Brand and generic drugmakers say the deals may
bring lower-cost copies of medicines to the market sooner than
they would otherwise.  The commission filed a court brief May 18 siding with
retailers such as  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) ’s CVS Caremark Pharmacy
unit,  Rite Aid Corp. (RAD) ,  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  and Walgreen Co. that have
challenged the legality of patent settlements between Schering-
Plough Corp. and two generic drugmakers for K-Dur 20, a
potassium supplement.  The lower-court decision would allow name-brand companies
to pay generic rivals to stay out of the market until the
patents for the medication expire. These deals run counter to
basic antitrust principles as well as the Hatch-Waxman Act of
1984, which Congress passed to foster competition with generic
drug firms, the FTC said yesterday in a statement.  FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz called the deals “outrageous”
and said they harm consumers in a May 3 interview with Bloomberg
News. Deals that delayed the introduction of cheaper generic
medicines rose 63 percent last year, he said in the interview.  The number of deals increased to 31 from 19 in 2009, the
FTC said May 4. The agency said there were no such settlements
in 2004. The cases involved 22 products and $9.3 billion in
sales. The FTC tracks the drug patent settlements, which
companies are required to report to the agency.  The agency sued Schering-Plough over the patent settlements
in 2001. The  Supreme Court  in 2006 refused to give the agency
more power to crack down on the practice when it left intact a
decision by a federal appeals court that overturned FTC
sanctions against Schering-Plough in 2005.  Merck bought Schering-Plough in November 2009.  The case is In re K-Dur Antitrust, 10-02077, 10-02078 and
10-02079, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
(Philadelphia).  Novartis’s Alcon Unit Wins Patent Fight Over Generic Patanol  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Alcon unit won a court ruling that will
prevent Apotex Inc. from selling a generic version of the eye
drug Patanol until a patent expires in 2015.  U.S. District Judge Richard Young in Indianapolis said that
a copy proposed by Apotex would infringe patent 5,641,805 owned
by Alcon and partner Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., and rejected claims
that the patent was invalid or unenforceable.  Patanol, whose active ingredient is olopatadine
hydrochloride, is the top-selling medicine to treat allergic
conjunctivitis, the most common type of allergic disease in the
eye. Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis acquired the drug with
its purchase last month of Alcon.  The court decision “is an important milestone to defend
Alcon’s  intellectual property  rights,” Stuart Raetzman, vice
president for global marketing at Alcon, said in a statement.  The patent covers the first compound to stabilize human
mast cells and prevent them from triggering the allergic
reactions, such as redness, itching and runny eyes, according to
the court opinion. Mast cells exist throughout the body and are
the primary cells involved in allergic reactions, Young said in
his opinion.  “Alcon invested many years and millions of dollars in the
discovery and development of an ocular allergy product that
would stabilize mast cells in the eye and provide long-term
relief of the signs and symptoms of ocular allergies,” Raetzman
said.  Closely held Apotex, based in Toronto, claimed that the
patent was an obvious variation of earlier inventions in the
field and that Alcon and Kyowa failed to adequately describe
what they claim to have invented.  The case is Alcon Manufacturing Ltd. v. Apotex Inc.,
06cv1642, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
 Indiana  (Indianapolis).  Fractus Says Jury Awards $23 Million in Antenna Patent Case  Fractus SA, a closely held maker of mobile-phone antennas,
won a $23 million jury verdict in a patent infringement case,
lawyers for the Barcelona-based company said in a  statement .  The Spanish company sued Samsung Electronics Co. in federal
court in Tyler,  Texas , in May 2009, alleging that nine of its
patents for mobile-phone antennas were infringed.  Fractus was awarded royalties of more than 35 cents per
phone, according to the statement. Fractus previously negotiated
patent licenses valued at almost $70 million with other
companies, the lawyers said.  Lawyers for Samsung from Baker Botts LLP didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  Fractus was represented by lawyers from  Heim Payne &
Chorush LLP  and Susman Godfrey LLP, both of Houston, and
Longview, Texas-based  Ward & Smith Law Firm .  The case is Fractus SA v. Samsung Electronics Co., 6:09-cv-
00203-LED-JDL, U.s. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Tyler).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Hershey Drops Suit Claiming Mars Infringed Reese’s Trademark  Hershey Co. (HSY) , the maker of Reese’s candies, dropped a
lawsuit against Mars Inc. in which it claimed Mars’s packaging
for its Dove peanut butter and chocolate bars infringed
trademarks for Reese’s.  Hershey and Mars agreed to “dismiss with prejudice all
claims asserted in this action,” according to a filing May 23
in federal court in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania . No details were
given for the dismissal.  Hershey sued in November, claiming that Mars used an orange
background for its Dove candies that had been trademarked for
Reese’s Peanut Butter cups and Reese’s Pieces. The use of the
color would “confuse consumers” about the source of the
product, Hershey claimed.  Jeff Beckman, a spokesman for Hershey, Pennsylvania-based
Hershey, and Lauren Nodzak, a spokeswoman for McLean, Virginia-
based Mars, didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment.  Mars filed an action against Hershey in federal court in
 Virginia  in November seeking a ruling that it wasn’t infringing
Hershey’s trademarks. That action is also dismissed.  The Hershey case is The Hershey Co. v. Mars Inc., 10-02417,
U.S. District Court, Middle District of Pennsylvania
(Harrisburg). The Mars case is Mars Inc. v. The Hershey Co., 10-
01325, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia
(Alexandria).  La-Z-Boy Sued for Using ‘Live Life Comfortably’ Mark  La-Z Boy Inc., the Monroe, Michigan-based manufacturer of
upholstered furniture, was sued for trademark infringement by a
maker of pillows and bedding.  Hollander Home Fashions LLC  of Boca Raton,  Florida , accused
the furniture maker of infringing the “live comfortably”
trademark it has used since 2002 for pillows and other products.
The company first registered the mark in August 2003, according
to the complaint filed May 23 in federal court in West Palm
Beach, Florida.  La-Z-Boy is using “live life comfortably” in print and
television advertising and on its website, according to court
papers. Hollander also objects to La-Z-Boy’s licensing the term
for use on a line of La-Z-Boy branded bedding. The use of this
term wasn’t authorized by Hollander, the company said.  Hollander claims the public is confused and led to believe,
falsely, that an affiliation, sponsorship or license exists
between the two companies.  The Florida company asked the court to order La-Z-Boy to
quit using any trademark, URL or copyright that is confusingly
similar to those it owns. It also seeks money damages, extra
damages to punish Hollander for the alleged infringement, and
awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  Additionally, Hollander asked the court to order the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office to deny registration of a La-Z-Boy
application filed Aug. 31 to register “live life comfortably”
as a trademark.  La-Z-Boy does “not comment on matters in litigation,”
spokeswoman Kathy Liebmann said in an e-mail.  Hollander is represented by  Gerard Joseph Curley Jr.  and
 Brian McPherson  of  Gunster Yoakley & Stewart  of West Palm Beach,
and  Bruce H. Sales ,  Gregg A. Paradise  and  Robert B. Hander  of
 Lerner David Littenberg Krumholz & Mentlik LLP  of Westfield,  New
Jersey .  The case is Hollander Home Fashions LLC v.  La-Z-Boy Inc. (LZB) ,
9:11-cv-80605, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(West Palm Beach).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  EU Targets Digital Books, Music Rights in Copyright Overhaul  Digital libraries may be able to include more copyrighted
works under European Union rules proposed yesterday.  The European Commission is seeking to bolster the EU-funded
Internet library Europeana, a rival to the Internet book service
operated by  Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the most popular Internet-
search engine.  Some so-called orphan works, including newspapers and video
footage for which no one can be identified to authorize digital
use, may be included in digital libraries after a “diligent
search” can’t trace the author, the commission said.  About 40 percent of the British Library’s copyrighted works
cannot be digitized because authors can’t be located, the
commission said. Google has said it doesn’t scan copyrighted
material in European libraries.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s internal market commissioner, said
he will also fulfill a promise to submit proposals later this
year to simplify music rights, in a move that may aid  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes and other music services to open EU-wide stores.  Music services must currently seek permission from each of
the EU’s 27 nations before they can sell a track across the
bloc.  Barnier said he would examine how levies are charged on
electronic devices and blank disks in some European countries to
compensate copyright holders for private copying.  Triten Sued for Copyright Infringement by Software Company  Triten Corp., a Houston-based holding company that develops
and manufactures alloy products through its subsidiary units,
was sued for copyright infringement by a Chicago-based software
company.  Cassetica Software Inc.  accused Triten of downloading and
copying the source code for its NotesMedic programs without
authorization. According to the complaint filed May 23 in
federal court in  Chicago , Triten employees, including “senior
executives, and at least one officer and member of the board of
directors” have copied the software.  The Chicago software company claims that Triten “has the
right and ability to supervise its employees with respect to
their downloading, copying and installation of NotesMedic on
Triten-owned computers and personal computers who connect to the
Internet through Triten’s Internet connections.”  Cassetica asked the court to bar closely held Triten’s
unauthorized use of the software and its source code and for
awards of money damages, including profits attributable to
Triten’s alleged infringement. The software company seeks
enhanced damages, claiming the infringement is deliberate and
also asked for awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  Triten didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  Cassetica is represented by  Michael R. La Porte  and  William
W. Flachsbart  of Chicago’s  Flachsbart & Greenspoon LLC .  The case is Cassetica Software Inc., v. Triten Corp., 1:11-
cv-03444, U.S. District Court, northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  For more copyright news, click here  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 