-- 
Merkel-Sarkozy Bond Frays as Officials Bicker on Debt Heading Into Summit

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-05-26T10:42:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/merkel-sarkozy-bond-frays-heading-into-g-8.html
Angela Merkel  and Nicolas Sarkozy
walked  side by side  on an Atlantic beach boardwalk in October to
show their resolve in combating Europe’s debt crisis. Seven
months later, the common bond is fraying.  As the German and French leaders return to the coastal
resort of Deauville today for a Group of Eight summit, Europe’s
two biggest nations are squabbling over approaches to Greek
debt, nuclear power and the war in Libya.  Their failure to maintain a united front may deepen the 18-
month-old financial crisis by weakening an alliance that both
have said is crucial to persuading investors the euro region can
avoid its first default. It also undermines Europe’s ability to
boost its global role even after President  Barack Obama  sought
to take a back seat in Libya and tumult in North Africa
increased migration across the Mediterranean Sea.  “The French-German motor of the European Union has
stalled,” said Shada Islam, an analyst at the Friends of Europe
policy-advisory group in Brussels. “This disunity will be
evident at Deauville.”  Sarkozy kicked off the two-day summit with a one-on-one
meeting with Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev , who then held
talks with President Barack Obama. The G-8, which as the G-6
held its first summit in Rambouillet, France, in 1975, comprises
the U.S.,  Japan , France, Germany,  Italy ,  Canada , the U.K. and
 Russia .  ‘Consolidation Strategies’  Leaders will discuss the global economy over lunch in their
first joint session. Merkel told lawmakers in Berlin before
leaving for Deauville that “consolidation strategies” will be
a topic for discussion, urging G-8 heads to step up their
efforts and make debt cuts “the spirit of talks in Deauville.”  Other topics include nuclear safety and climate change; the
Arab democracy movements, Iran and Middle East peace; North
Korea, nuclear proliferation and terrorism; and the Internet.  G-8 leaders will urge  Israel  and the Palestinians to start
negotiations on a comprehensive peace deal “without delay,”
Agence France-Presse reported, citing a draft of the summit’s
final statement.  Notable for its absence from the agenda is the sovereign
debt crisis that has driven the euro to a record low against the
Swiss franc. Nor are leaders likely to endorse a candidate to
head the  International Monetary Fund  after Dominique Strauss- Kahn’s resignation to fight rape charges, a German official told
reporters in Berlin on May 24 on condition of anonymity because
the negotiations are private.  Euro’s Decline  Europe ’s waiting game on possible further aid for  Greece 
has helped drive the euro down 5 percent since it reached a 17-
month high of $1.4830 on May 2. That followed a 15 percent rise
from January, when Sarkozy and Merkel pledged at the World
Economic Forum in Davos that they wouldn’t let the euro fail.  “Both Merkel and Sarkozy are going to the G-8 summit in a
weakened position and this means Europe will be relatively weak
at the G-8 as a consequence,”  Jan Techau , head of the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace in Brussels, said by phone.  The two leaders looked in charge the last time they were
photographed in Deauville on Oct. 18, strolling by the beach
before unveiling a deal that opened the way for a permanent
rescue fund for indebted euro nations starting in 2013.  Merkel, facing resentment in  Germany  about bailing out
Greece, won French backing for threatening bondholders with
losses under the system. In return, she gave way on a demand for
“automatic” sanctions for nations that break EU deficit rules.  Sarkozy has been scoring points since, championing NATO
strikes on Libya while Germany stayed out. He trumped Merkel in
the race to name the next head of the  European Central Bank ,
backing Italy’s Mario Draghi while Merkel was still coy about
her choice. That came after her first choice, then-Bundesbank
chief  Axel Weber , stood Merkel up.  ‘Off the Table’  And while German officials such as Deputy Finance Minister
Joerg Asmussen have discussed coping with a debt restructuring
in Greece,  France  has rejected talking about it. The matter is
“off the table,” French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde 
says.  Such mixed messages and Merkel’s reluctance to stake out a
position even with Germany accounting for the biggest share of
bailout funds have deepened investor worries.  A similar lack of direction 12 months ago prompted Obama to
call Merkel and Sarkozy to urge “resolute steps” to prevent
the crisis from cascading around the world after the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  plunged 1,000 points.  “The euro crisis is more one of governance and leadership
and not really a sovereign debt crisis,” Jim O’Neill, chairman
of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, wrote in a May 22 note.  Fukushima Lessons  While jockeying for influence, France and Germany are also
drawing opposing lessons from Fukushima. Merkel flip-flopped on
nuclear power, seeking to speed the closing of atomic plants six
months after pushing legislation through parliament to extend
their running times. Sarkozy is maintaining France’s dependence
on atomic energy, while Prime Minister David Cameron warned
against a “rush to judgement” on nuclear safety.  Merkel’s atomic retreat and crisis handling helped
contribute to four electoral defeats this year. They culminated
in Bremen on May 22, when her party came in third behind the
anti-nuclear Greens for the first time in a regional ballot.  “All this puts great distance between France and
Germany,” said Martin Koopmann, director of the Genshagen
Foundation, a research group near Berlin. “The gap is so big
that the two countries can no longer create a common position.”  For all the squalls that cloud the relationship, the German
and French economies combined to drive euro region growth of 0.8
percent in the first quarter, exceeding economists’ forecasts.
Germany’s economy will expand a projected 3.4 percent this year,
the most of any G-7 nation, the Paris-based Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said yesterday.  ‘Gaining Traction’  Merkel’s helmsmanship of Europe’s biggest economy means
that on the Greek crisis “it’s still the Germans who set the
agenda,” said Techau. Her insistence that the Greeks have to do
more to cut their debt before relying on more outside help “is
gaining traction” among euro-area governments, he said.  Just as Merkel has failed to gain political leverage from
the economy or unemployment at a 19-year low, neither has
Sarkozy seen a bounce in opinion polls from his stance on  Libya ,
nuclear power or the debt crisis. A poll last month showed him
to be the least popular president in the history of modern
France, one year before the French presidential election.  Even so, when Strauss-Kahn quit as IMF chief, Merkel’s lack
of a German candidate opened the field for Sarkozy. Lagarde
yesterday declared her candidacy for the job and already enjoys
front-runner status in Europe. Merkel called her “excellent and
experienced.”  “It looks like Merkel is turning the other cheek very
often,”  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels.
“The French made the better deals. There’s not a lot she can
show as a huge success over the last six, seven months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  