-- 
Merkel Says German 2011 Growth May Beat Government Forecast

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-05-25T20:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/merkel-says-german-2011-growth-may-beat-government-forecast.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
the country’s economy,  Europe ’s biggest, may grow at a faster
pace this year than expected by the government.  Growth of  Germany ’s gross domestic product, which was 3.6
percent in 2010, will “likely be above 3 percent again” this
year, Merkel said at an event organized by her Christian
Democratic Union party’s economic council in Berlin. The
government’s official forecast calls for 2.6 percent growth.  German business confidence unexpectedly remained unchanged
in May as booming exports and rising company spending boosted
economic growth. German GDP rose 1.5 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months, the Federal Statistics
Office said yesterday.  With euro-region governments from Spain to Ireland
toughening spending cuts to lower their budget shortfalls,
German companies have relied on faster-growing economies to
bolster sales. The global economy may grow 4.4 percent this
year, with  China  expanding 9.6 percent and India 8.2 percent,
the  International Monetary Fund  forecast last month.  Merkel said she wants the euro to remain “a strong
currency,” which means the bloc’s members have to cut budget
deficits and boost their competitiveness. The “solidarity” of
the euro region’s richest states such as Germany with poorer
ones is linked to cash-strapped states improving their
competitiveness, she said.  The chancellor said she wants creditors to euro region
governments to contribute to the costs of bailouts from 2013,
when the European Stability Mechanism goes into effect in July
of that year. Merkel said she doesn’t want to change the rules
governing the current European Financial Stability Facility,
which expires in June 2013, while the program is still running.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  