-- 
Mumbai Terror Attack Scout Says He’s Testifying Against ’Best Friend’

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-26T02:51:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/terror-attack-scout-says-he-s-testifying-against-best-friend-.html
David Coleman Headley, the first
witness for the U.S. in its case against accused Mumbai terror
plotter Tahawwur Rana, told jurors he considered the  Chicago 
businessman his “best friend in the world.”  Headley yesterday affirmed his close relationship with
Rana, who he has known since they attended a Pakistani military
school as teenagers, on his third day of testimony in support of
the U.S. claim Rana gave material support to terrorists.  Rana is accused of providing cover for Headley’s trips to
Mumbai to scout locations for the attacks by allowing him to
open a branch of Rana’s immigration services business in the
city. Headley yesterday told defense attorney Charlie Swift
during cross-examination in federal court in Chicago that he had
told Rana the branch was needed for Pakistani intelligence
purposes.  It was “a chance to be patriotic,” Headley, 50, said he
told Rana in 2006, saying a Pakistani intelligence officer named
Major Iqbal was willing to put up $25,000 for the office.  The 2008 Mumbai attacks spanned three days and left more
than 160 people dead, including six Americans. The assault has
been blamed on the Pakistani group Lashkar-e-Taiba, which the
U.S. labeled a terrorist organization in 2001.  Traveled to Mumbai  Earlier this week, Headley told the court he traveled to
Mumbai ostensibly as an agent of Rana’s firm. His real mission
was to conduct surveillance and help identify targets that
ultimately included two hotels, a café, a train station and a
Jewish hostel.  Rana, 50, a Pakistani native and Canadian citizen, faces
three counts of providing material support to terrorists for
allegedly helping Lashkar, aiding Headley’s scouting for the
Mumbai attack and assisting his preparations for a never-
executed assault on a Danish newspaper that in 2005 printed
inflammatory cartoons of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.  Swift, in his opening statement on May 23, told jurors his
client, a trained physician, had been duped by Headley.  The Washington-born son of an American mother and Pakistani
father, Headley last year pleaded guilty to 12 criminal counts
arising from the two terror plots and agreed to cooperate with
prosecutors.  Yesterday, Rana’s defense lawyer questioned Headley about
his heroin-trafficking convictions in 1988 and 1997 and asked
the government witness why he took Rana along on a trip to buy
the narcotic in rural  Pakistan .  ‘Doesn’t Use Heroin’  “He doesn’t use heroin, does he?” Swift asked.  “No,” Headley replied, explaining that Rana -- then a
cadet -- possessed a military identification card, could provide
cover, and wasn’t aware of the journey’s true purpose.  Headley also said Rana had posted bail collateral after the
second drug-trafficking arrest.  A Pakistani-American, Headley, 50, said he received
tactical military training, intelligence and antiterrorist
training from the Lashkar group, starting in 2002. The group
agitates for the separation of the state of  Jammu and Kashmir 
from  India .  He has also told the jury of four men and eight women that
he received espionage training, through Iqbal, from Pakistan’s
Inter-Services Intelligence Agency. Iqbal was indicted for
allegedly conspiring in the Mumbai terror plot and isn’t in U.S.
custody.  When Headley told Swift he didn’t freely share information
among Rana, Iqbal and his Lashkar handlers, Swift asked him if
he compartmentalized the information so that only he knew all
the details.  “Yes,” Headley answered.  “You did well in espionage school,” the attorney
responded.  “Thank you,” Headley said.  The case is U.S. v. Kashmiri, 09-cr-00830, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  