-- 
Testing Service Pays $1.4 Million to Settle Billing Case Over Contracts

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-05-25T22:21:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/testing-service-pays-1-4-million-to-settle-billing-case-over-contracts.html
Educational Testing Service, which
administers tests for students and teachers, paid $1.4 million
to resolve claims that it improperly billed the U.S. Education
Department on government contracts.  The settlement involves contracts in which ETS provided
testing and research-related services and was reimbursed for
retiree medical benefit costs, according to a statement by Paul Fishman, the U.S. attorney in  New Jersey . After government rules
changed in 1999 and no longer allowed such reimbursements, ETS
continued to bill for the costs, Fishman said.  ETS, a nonprofit based in Princeton, New Jersey, disclosed
the improper charges to the Education Department in 2007,
Fishman said. In addition to the $1.4 million, ETS reimbursed
the government $3.2 million for the overbilling and interest,
according to the statement.  “It is our job to protect taxpayers from contractors who
charge more than they should,” Fishman said in the statement.  ETS spokesman Tom Ewing said the company mistakenly
continued to reimburse retirees after the government changed
rules that had been in place for many years.  “ETS disclosed this oversight to DOE in 2007 and later
reimbursed the department in full, with interest,” Ewing said
in an e-mail. “Today’s agreement resolves matters to everyone’s
satisfaction.”  Founded in 1947, ETS develops, administers and scores more
than 50 million tests annually in more than 180 countries and
9,000 locations. The tests it administers include the Scholastic
Aptitude Test and the Graduate Record Examination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 