-- 
Estonia’s Cabinet Targets Gas Unbundling by 2015 in Draft Bill

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-05-25T07:59:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/estonia-s-cabinet-targets-gas-unbundling-by-2015-in-draft-bill.html
Estonia postponed by two years until
January 2015 a deadline for separating AS Eesti Gaas’s natural-
gas sales and transmission divisions, a move aimed at opening
the market to competition.  The cabinet of Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip  wants to
diversify gas supplies and increase supply security, according
to a  draft bill  published by the  Economy Ministry  on a
government website yesterday. The draft was sent to ministries
for approval before it goes to parliament.  The bill is intended to liberalize the market through
greater transparency, increase competition by allowing biogas to
enter the market and establish the legal basis for building a
liquefied natural gas terminal, according to a letter
accompanying the draft.  Ansip’s Reform Party published plans last October for gas
unbundling by 2013 to reduce dependence on  Russia ’s OAO Gazprom,
the biggest owner of Eesti Gaas and its sole supplier.  Estonia, Latvia and  Lithuania  want to shift their energy
focus to the European Union. Relations with Russia remain soured
by mistrust of its political ambitions in the Baltic region. A
year ago, Lithuania announced a similar plan at Lietuvos Dujos
AB, bringing criticism from Gazprom and from  Germany ’s  E.ON AG (EOAN) ,
which also has a stake in Eesti Gaas.  Sale Stipulation  The draft bill includes a stipulation that Eesti Gaas’s
transmission unit will be sold if no buyer is found and sets a
fine of as much as 32,000 euros ($45,000) if the independence of
sales and transmission is violated. It leaves open the option
that a company based outside the EU could control the
transmission network, subject to clearances from the competition
board and the European Commission.  Transmission and sales of natural gas could also be
controlled by the government, in which case they would have to
be supervised by different ministers, according to the bill. In
October, Reform lawmaker Igor Grazin said the option of
nationalizing the transmission network would be dropped.  Last week,  Estonia ’s power grid operator, Elering AS,
commissioned a unit of Poeyry Oyj, a Finnish engineering
company, to analyze options for gas unbundling by Oct. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  