-- 
Etihad Atheeb Attributes Wider Loss to Saudi Telecom Practices

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-05-25T11:30:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/etihad-atheeb-attributes-wider-loss-to-saudi-telecom-practices.html
Etihad Atheeb Telecommunications Co.,
which started competing with  Saudi Telecom Co. (STC)  for fixed-line
clients last year, said the “controlling operator’s anti-
competitive practices” contributed to an increased loss.  A hearing is scheduled for May 28 in  Saudi Arabia ’s
Grievances Court involving a lawsuit filed against the country’s  
telecommunications regulator , Etihad Atheeb Chairman Prince
Abdulaziz bin Abdulaziz said in a statement, which was published
in newspapers today.  Saudi Telecom, the country’s largest phone company by
market value, has impeded Etihad Atheeb’s international calling
and prepaid-card services, he said in the statement. Riyadh-
based Etihad Atheeb has also filed a complaint with the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry’s Competition Protection Council, he
added.  “We trust a just and fair King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz, who
has ordered the breaking of the monopoly and opening up fair
competition in the telecom sector,” Prince Abdulaziz said.  Saudi Telecom didn’t immediately reply to a phone call and
e-mail requesting comment.  The Saudi stock market regulator yesterday suspended
trading in Etihad Atheeb shares as of today, after the company
reported its loss for the year ended March 31 widened to 575
million riyals ($153 million), or 95 percent of its capital.  Etihad Atheeb, which started commercial operations in
January 2010, will also compete with Saudi Integrated Telecom
Co., which plans to start operations this year, after its
initial public offering earlier this month.  Etihad Atheeb’s board in April recommended a capital
reduction to 400 million riyals from 1 billion riyals, to be
followed by a 600 million-riyal rights offer. “Regulatory
approval is expected very soon,” Prince Abdulaziz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  