-- 
EU Nuclear Stress Tests to Include Airplane Crashes With Natural Disasters

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-05-25T11:52:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/eu-atomic-stress-tests-to-exclude-terrorist-attack-prevention.html
The European Union agreed on
parameters for stress tests on nuclear  power plants  that the
bloc wants to conduct to reassess safety risks after a crisis in
Japan, where an earthquake and a tsunami crippled atomic
reactors.  The tests on the region’s 143 atomic plants will cover
threats from natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tornados
and extreme heat or snow, as well as airplane crashes and
explosions close to nuclear stations, the European Commission
said today in a statement. Preventive measures from terrorist
attacks will be excluded, according to the EU regulatory arm.  “The quality of these stress tests is such as to fulfil
the requirement of the EU citizens to live in a safe
environment,” EU Energy Commissioner Guenther Oettinger told a
news conference in Brussels today.  EU leaders in March called for a “comprehensive and
transparent risk and safety assessment” of European atomic
stations after the accident at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  The risk of a nuclear meltdown in Japan triggered public
protests in  Europe  against atomic power and prompted  Germany  to
order a temporary halt to the country’s seven oldest reactors.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  approves of a suggestion from her
Christian Social Union allies to switch off the last of
Germany’s 17 reactors by 2022, the CSU said in a statement dated
May 21.  No ‘Shortcut’  “We see some media and some member states speculating that
the stress tests are the shortcut to leave nuclear power
behind,” Oettinger said. “That’s not it.”  Nuclear power stations owned by companies including
Electricite de France SA and Germany’s  RWE AG (RWE)  produce a third of
the electricity in the EU. While it is up to governments in the
EU to decide whether to use nuclear power, which is produced in
14 member countries, safety is a shared responsibility between
national and EU authorities.  “The aim is to learn from what happened in Japan and help
prevent that a similar accident can happen in Europe,” the
commission said in a statement today. “One of the most
important lessons to be drawn is that the unthinkable can happen
-- that two natural disasters can hit at the same time and knock
out the electrical-power supply system completely.”  Terrorist Attacks  The commission and national atomic safety regulators agreed
that while comparable damaging effects from terrorist attacks,
such as plane crashes or explosives, will be covered in the
tests, measures to prevent an attack will be dealt with
separately with the assistance from national security officials.  “Despite the repeated assurances of commissioner
Oettinger, it seems that the nuclear industry will get a stress-
free ride under the proposed EU nuclear safety tests,” Rebecca
Harms, co-president of the Greens group in the European
Parliament, said in a statement. “Pro-nuclear EU member states
seem to have got their way and ensured key safety risks will not
be part of the core stress tests.”  The tests, which are due to start on June 1 at the latest,
will be carried out at three levels: first the plant operators
will have to fill in a questionnaire, then it will be subject to
checks by the national regulator and in the last step the report
by the national regulator will be subject to a peer review by
regulators from other member states and a representative of the
commission, according to the  statement .  Peer Reviews  The final results of the peer reviews are expected by the
end of April 2012. Decisions on measures to be taken in the case
of a failure of the stress tests will be made by member states.  “In case an upgrade is technically or economically not
feasible, we believe reactors should be shut down and
decommissioned,” the commission said.  EU governments in 2009 set their first common standards for
the construction and operation of atomic reactors, saying the
industry’s growth requires steps to ease public anxiety about
the risks. A draft law proposed last year would broaden EU
safety oversight by setting bloc-wide standards for nuclear-
waste disposal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  