-- 
Eurobank First-Quarter Profit Rises After Selling Polish Unit

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-05-25T16:13:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/eurobank-first-quarter-profit-rises-after-selling-polish-unit.html
EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB) , the second-
largest bank in  Greece , said first-quarter profit climbed after
it sold a unit in  Poland .  Net income was 74 million euros ($104 million) compared
with 61 million euros a year earlier, which was restated to
allow for comparisons, according to an e-mailed statement from
the Athens-based bank. Profit included a gain from the sale of a
stake in Polbank EFG.  Eurobank was expected to report a 4.6 million-euro loss,
the average estimate of 10 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “Capitalizing on our strategic initiative in the Polish
market, we managed a substantial improvement to our capital
adequacy ratios, and created a collective reserve to cover
future prospective risks, while, at the same time, we managed to
record a profit,” Chief Executive Officer Nikos Nanopoulos said
in the statement.  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  agreed to buy Eurobank’s
Polish business in February, paying 490 million euros for a 70
percent stake in money-losing Polbank, helping lift Eurobank’s
balance sheet.  Eurobank’s Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial strength,
rose to 11.9 percent from 10.6 percent the end of last year.
Eurobank has loan losses and provisions of 335 million euros in
the quarter, compared with 312 million euros a year earlier.  Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s wage and pension cuts
damped profit for the country’s lenders as the economy
contracted 4.4 percent last year and unemployment rose.  Greek and Cypriot bank shares have declined 23 percent so
far this year, compared with a decline of 0.9 percent for the 48
biggest European financial stocks, as concerns over their
holdings of Greek debt mount. Greece’s credit rating was cut
three levels by  Fitch Ratings  on May 20, which said that even a
voluntary extension of its bond maturities being studied by EU
policy makers would be considered a default.  Eurobank shares, down 13 percent so far this year, rose 1.2
percent to 3.26 euros today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  