-- 
Europeans Ask UN to Condemn Syrian Attacks on Protesters

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-25T21:05:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/europeans-seek-un-condemnation-of-syrian-attacks-on-protesters.html
Britain,  France , Germany and Portugal
today asked the  United Nations Security Council  to demand that
the Syrian government end its attacks on peaceful protesters and
address their grievances.  A draft resolution circulated today “condemns the
systematic violation of human rights, including the killings,
arbitrary detentions, disappearances and torture of peaceful
demonstrators, human rights defenders and journalists by the
Syrian authorities.”  The European sponsors have called a meeting tomorrow with
representatives of the  Security Council ’s member governments
with the intention of scheduling a vote next week. That might
depend on whether  Russia , which has expressed reservations about
council involvement in Syria, can be persuaded not to veto.
Discussions are expected at a meeting of the leaders of the
Group of Eight nations beginning tomorrow in France.  Portugal ’s Ambassador Jose Moraes Cabral said he was
“fairly confident” the measure would be supported by at least
nine of the council’s 15 members, which is the requirement for
adoption unless vetoed. At the same time, Cabral said he didn’t
want to “underestimate the complexity of the issues involved
with approving the resolution.”  The text calls on the Syrian government to “act with the
utmost restraint, take concrete measures to meet legitimate
popular demands, immediately release all prisoners of
conscience,” lift the siege of Daraa and end restrictions on
the media. It asks other nations to prevent arms sales to Syria
and for Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon to monitor compliance and
report back within 14 days.  UN Mission  The draft resolution says the attacks are a threat to
regional peace and stability, that they “may amount to crimes
against humanity,” and that authorities responsible for the
violence should be held legally accountable. It notes reports of
a mass grave in Daraa and supports the proposed UN humanitarian
assessment mission to  Syria , which the government has barred
after initially giving its consent.  Syria’s ambassador to the UN had no immediate comment.  Syria will not succumb to international pressure and
sanctions, the country’s foreign minister said on May 23. The
European Union announced restrictions this week on Syria that
will include “the highest level of leadership,” as well as a
review of aid programs. The U.S. has frozen the assets of
President Bashar Al-Assad and other top officials.  1,000 Killed  The U.S. and  Europe  “were mistaken with these sanctions
because they aim to incite those who imagine that the West will
help them to continue with violence,” Foreign Minister Walid Al-Muallem said in an interview with state-run television,
according to the official news agency SANA.  Syrian security forces have killed more than 1,000 people
during two and half months of protests, Mahmoud Merhi, head of
the Arab Organization for Human Rights, and Ammar Qurabi, head
of Syria’s National Organization for Human Rights, said in phone
interviews on May 23.  The government has blamed the unrest on Islamist militants
and “terrorist elements” seeking to destabilize the country.  Assad initially promised reforms in response to the
protests, which followed popular uprisings that ousted rulers in
Tunisia and  Egypt , though those pledges haven’t been repeated in
recent weeks as security forces stepped up their assault. The
draft takes note of that intention, while “regretting” that
the government hasn’t responded to the “legitimate
aspirations” of the people.  Earlier Failure  The  Security Council  failed earlier this month to adopt a
statement condemning the violence, which would have needed the
consent of all 15 member governments.  China and Russia led opposition that blocked the statement,
saying intervention might lead to the type of stalemated
conflict in Libya and that the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization’s bombing campaign has exceeded its UN mandate.
 Brazil ,  India  and  South Africa  have raised similar concerns.  Russia’s Ambassador  Vitaly Churkin , whose government
supported imposition of sanctions on  Libya  and then abstained
from the vote authorizing military action, has said Syria is a
“completely different” situation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  