-- 
Dollar Declines on Interest-Rate Outlook After Weaker-Than-Forecast Data

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-05-26T14:25:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/euro-near-10-week-low-versus-dollar-on-concern-greece-s-crisis-will-spread.html
The dollar dropped versus the yen and
euro as the economy grew less than forecast and jobless-benefit
claims unexpectedly rose, adding to speculation the U.S. will
lag behind other nations in raising  interest rates .  The euro pared gains versus the greenback after
Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker said the  International Monetary
Fund  may not release its portion of aid to Greece next month.
European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said policy
makers are “carefully” monitoring inflation, fueling bets the
region’s economy is strong enough for higher borrowing costs.
The  Federal Reserve  will keep its benchmark rate near zero until
next year, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “Both the GDP and the claims were worse overall,” said
 Jens Nordvig , a managing director of currency research at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in New York. “This is something that suggests
that rates in the U.S. are going to stay quite low for the time
being. Dollar-yen is always the most sensitive to U.S. rates.”  The dollar tumbled 0.8 percent to 81.29 yen at 10:24 a.m.
in  New York , from 81.97 yen yesterday. The euro rose 0.3 percent
to $1.4123 after earlier gaining as much as 0.8 percent. It
depreciated to $1.3970 on May 23, the weakest since March 17.
The common currency fell 0.6 percent to 114.82 yen.  U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 1.8 percent annual
rate in the first quarter, the same as estimated last month,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . That
compares with a 3.1 percent gain in the prior quarter. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called
for a 2.2 percent increase.  Consumer spending  rose 2.2 percent,
down from a 2.7 percent initial estimate.  Jobless Claims  Initial claims for  unemployment benefits  rose by 10,000 to
424,000 in the week ended May 21, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. The median estimate of economists in
a Bloomberg News survey called for a drop to 404,000.  The euro rose earlier against the dollar as Financial Times
reported that European Financial Stability Facility Chief
Executive Officer Klaus Regling said Asian investors, including
China, may buy Portuguese bailout bonds when the EFSF sells them
in June, easing concern that the region’s sovereign-debt crisis
will spread.  “China has been a driver of much of the price action,”
said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at
National Bank of Canada in Toronto. “The inference that  China 
will be buying something put a bid to the euro.”  Investors from  Asia  bought 16 percent of the 4.75 billion
euros ($6.7 billion) of five-year notes sold yesterday to help
fund Portugal’s bailout, the European Commission said.  ECB Versus Fed  The ECB raised its main refinancing rate to 1.25 percent
last month after keeping it at a record low of 1 percent for
almost two years. The Fed has held its target rate at zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008. It’s forecast to keep the
benchmark unchanged until the first quarter of 2012, according
to the median of 75 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists and analysts.  European policy makers need “to avoid commodity-price
increases becoming entrenched in longer-term inflation
expectations, which could have second-round effects on wages and
prices,” Trichet said at a conference in Berlin today,
according to a text provided by the Frankfurt-based ECB. “We
are carefully monitoring the situation and we stand ready to do
whatever is necessary to fulfill our mandate.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said  Greece  may
need more time to reduce its debt to regain access to capital
markets, Handelsblatt newspaper reported, citing an interview.  ‘More Time’  “It is decisive that Greece implements the program and
what it announced in March, including the privatizations of 50
billion euros,” Schaeuble told the newspaper. “Currently, it
looks like Greece may need more time.”  The euro has lost 4.5 percent this month versus the yen as
European policy makers struggle to find a resolution to Greece’s
deficit woes.  “Schaeuble is softening his stance on Greek restructuring,
and any sort of indication that reprofiling is off the table in
the near term is beneficial for the euro,” said Jessica Hoversen, a New York-based analyst at the futures broker MF
Global Holdings Ltd.  Canada ’s dollar and Mexico’s peso were the only losers
against the greenback among its most-traded counterparts as
weaker growth in their largest trading partner damped demand for
the nations’ assets.  The Canadian currency dropped 0.4 percent to 98.11 cents
per  U.S. dollar  and the peso fell 0.4 percent to 11.7153.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  