-- 
European Stocks Advance; Intesa Sanpaolo Leads Rally in Banks

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-05-25T16:16:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/european-stock-index-futures-drop-technology-travel-shares-may-be-active.html
European stocks climbed the most in
two weeks as concern eased that the region’s debt crisis will
spread after  Jean-Claude Juncker  said an assessment on new
measures for Greece may come as soon as next week.  Banks had the best performance among 19 industry groups in
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, with  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  rising 5.1
percent. EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s biggest utilities,
advanced after the Financial Times Deutschland reported the
government may scrap a tax on nuclear reactors.  Cable & Wireless
Communications Plc (CWC)  plunged 12 percent after saying it’s cautious
on the outlook for its Caribbean operations.  The Stoxx 600 gained 0.7 percent to 277.37 at the 4:30 p.m.
close in  London , reversing earlier declines of as much as 0.6
percent. The gauge has risen 5.8 percent from this year’s low on
March 16 amid optimism company profits and government stimulus
measures will keep the economic recovery on track.  “Greece is still a concern but Juncker saying that by mid-
next week a decision will have been made regarding how  Greece 
will be helped is supporting the market,” said Markus Huber,
head of German sales trading at ETX Capital in London. “What
the market needs is to hear what actions will be taken by the
ECB and the IMF in order to avoid a default by Greece. The
earlier this happens the less likely will be a contagion to
other countries.”  Greek Assistance  Juncker, who heads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, said he is strongly against a full restructuring of
Greece’s debt. Euro-region countries may take further steps to
help Greece with its debt crisis if the country meets all
requests by the 17-member currency zone, he told reporters in
 The Hague . A final assessment on new measures for Greece may
come as early as next week, he said.  A report today showed U.S. orders for durable goods fell
more than forecast in April, reflecting lower demand for
aircraft and disruptions in supplies of auto parts stemming from
the earthquake in  Japan . Bookings for goods meant to last at
least three years fell 3.6 percent, the most since October,
after a 4.4 percent jump in March, Commerce Department data
showed. Economists projected a 2.5 percent drop in April,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  National benchmark indexes advanced in 15 of the 18 western
European markets today. Germany’s DAX and  France ’s CAC 40 rose
0.3 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 gained 0.2 percent.  Banks Advance  European banking shares rose 2.1 percent as a group, led by
gains in Italian lenders. Intesa Sanpaolo jumped 5.1 percent to
1.76 euros and Banca Popolare di Milano Scrl surged 3.9 percent
to 1.94 euros.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest bank, rose 2.7
percent to 1.57 euros.  Italian banks are well positioned to pass European Union’s
stress tests, Prometeia said. The country’s lenders hold
portfolios that are less risky than their counterparts in France
and Germany, the research group said at a presentation in Milan.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-largest bank, rallied 6.1
percent to 3.21 euros, the biggest increase in a year. All 13
German lenders examined in the second round of EU stress tests
are likely to pass after boosting and converting capital and
shifting risky assets into bad banks, three people familiar with
the process said.  EON, RWE  EON and RWE gained 2.3 percent to 20.12 euros and 1.9
percent to 41.49 euros, respectively. German reactor operators
could reach an informal deal with the government in which the
tax is dropped in exchange for the utilities accepting shorter
running times for nuclear plants and not pursuing legal
challenges to atomic  energy policy , the FTD reported, citing
unidentified people close to the government and ruling
coalition.  Cable & Wireless Communications plunged 12 percent to 42.41
pence, the lowest since July 2006. The U.K. telecommunications
company said “we are cautious on the economic and financial
outlook for the Caribbean.”  Hexagon AB (HEXAB) , the world’s biggest maker of measuring
instruments, sank 4 percent to 154.60 kronor, the biggest
retreat in six months, as Chairman Melker Schorling and Chief
Executive Officer Ola Rollen sold 11.7 million shares.  Vallourec SA (VK) , a French producer of steel pipes, slid 1.6
percent to 83.60 euros as Societe Generale SA downgraded the
shares to “hold” from “buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  