-- 
Ex-Galleon Trader Cardillo Tells Goffer Jury About Insider Tips, Cover-Up

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-05-25T21:06:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/ex-galleon-trader-cardillo-tells-goffer-jury-about-insider-tips-cover-up.html
Ex-Galleon Group LLC portfolio
manager Michael Cardillo testified about trading on inside tips,
discussing the information with colleagues, including the
brother of firm co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, and sending phony e-
mails to cover his tracks.  Cardillo, a prosecution witness in the insider-trading
trial of Zvi Goffer, Emanuel Goffer and Michael Kimelman, told
jurors in  New York  today how he traded on illegal tips about
acquisitions involving ATI Technologies Inc., Kronos Inc., Axcan
Pharma Inc., 3Com Corp. and Hilton Hotels Corp.  In at least one case, he sent e-mails to others at Galleon
including R.K. Rajaratnam, the co-founder’s brother, extolling
the value of Hilton’s stock before buying it for his fund’s
portfolio.  “I sent it as a cover-up to buying the stock based on
inside information,” said Cardillo, who pleaded guilty in
January to charges of conspiracy and securities fraud.  Cardillo testified that his employment overlapped with Zvi
Goffer’s for six or seven months. Goffer, 34, founded
Incremental Capital LLC after he was fired from Galleon, his
lawyer, William Barzee, said May 18 in his opening statement to
jurors.  Criminal Charges  The Goffer brothers and Kimelman are charged with
 securities fraud  and conspiracy stemming from one of three
overlapping rings tied to Galleon, prosecutors said. They face
as long as 20 years in prison if convicted of fraud.  Raj Rajaratnam was found guilty May 11 in the largest
insider-trading prosecution in a generation. He was convicted on
14 counts of securities fraud and conspiracy and prosecutors say
may be given as long as 19 1/2 years in prison when he’s
sentenced on July 29.  At Galleon, Cardillo said, he was a friend of Craig Drimal,
another portfolio manager. Drimal pleaded guilty last month to
conspiracy and five counts of securities fraud.  Cardillo testified that he got the tips from Drimal, whom
he called “Ruby.” Cardillo, who said he was called “Dillo”
by Drimal, said he understood that most of the tips were passed
to Drimal by Zvi Goffer. On cross-examination, Cardillo said he
had no direct knowledge of what Goffer may have said to Drimal.
Cardillo didn’t know Emanuel Goffer or Kimelman, he said.  Cardillo said he sat near Drimal at Galleon and sometimes
heard him speaking with Zvi Goffer on the phone.  ‘Bat Phone’  “I heard Ruby say that he would call him back on the ‘Bat
Phone,’” said Cardillo, who told jurors he was referring to a
prepaid mobile phone Goffer used.  Prosecutors claim Goffer used prepaid mobile phones to
avoid possible law enforcement scrutiny while discussing inside
information.  After his arrest, in the lobby of his apartment building in
November 2009, Cardillo agreed to cooperate with the
government’s investigation, providing information on  insider
trading  at Galleon and elsewhere and recording phone calls at
the direction of agents, he said.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  