-- 
Ex-Goldman Sachs Trader Ali’s Prosiris Fund Gets Capital From Investcorp

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-05-25T14:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/ex-goldman-sachs-trader-ali-gets-fund-capital-from-investcorp.html
Investcorp has backed former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  proprietary trader Reza Ali’s hedge fund with
initial capital and will provide marketing support as the
alternative investment firm expands in structured credit.  Prosiris Capital Management LLC, which plans to focus on
securitized debt and corporate credit linked to the assets,
received between $50 million to $100 million, a typical amount
from the Bahrain-based firm, said Deepak Gurnani, Investcorp’s
head of hedge funds and chief investment officer.  “We were looking to team up with a manager” with
experience in the sector, Gurnani said. “Unfortunately, most of
the portfolios got decimated during the credit crisis. What
immediately struck us about this firm is that Reza, who managed
significant amounts of money during the credit crisis, performed
well during the period.”  Before starting New York-based Prosiris in 2009, Ali headed
the Americas principal funding and investments group at New
York-based Goldman Sachs, where he managed “a multi-billion
dollar portfolio of credit and structured finance assets and
 credit derivatives ” from 2006 to 2009, according to an e-mailed
statement.  Ali, 41, said in a telephone interview that he couldn’t
comment further on the details of his trading at Goldman Sachs.  While values of securitized debt have rallied by record
amounts from the unprecedented lows reached during the credit
crisis, the market is compelling for investors because so few
fund managers understand the nuances of the assets, Ali said.
Banks in both the U.S. and Europe are also off-loading their
holdings at a faster pace after bolstering their balance sheets,
he said.  ‘Sophisticated Players’  “Most of the hedge funds did not play here. The more
sophisticated players were on the sell side, prop desks or
principal areas of the banks,” Ali said. Prosiris will use both
“short” and “long” bets in its investing, he said, meaning
it can profit from declines and gains in the market.  Before Goldman Sachs, Ali worked at Merrill Lynch & Co.,
where he created the firm’s structured-credit proprietary
trading desk, and also headed structuring for credit derivatives
in  Europe , according to the statement.  Investcorp, which oversees $11.8 billion of assets, first
invested in securitized-debt funds in 2006, when it began
participating through a fund in bets against the U.S. subprime
mortgage-bond market as “portfolio insurance,” Gurnani said.  Prosiris will become the seventh  investment adviser  on the
firm’s so-called single manager platform, which has a total of
$1.6 billion in money from Investcorp and its clients under
management.  Seer Capital  Seer Capital Management LP, the investment firm headed by
Philip Weingord, Deutsche Bank AG’s former head of global
markets in the Americas, has also said hedge funds focusing on
securitized debt should be attractive to investors because fewer
money managers have expertise in the sector.  The main hedge fund run by New York-based Seer, which
oversees $400 million in assets, gained 9.2 percent in the first
four months of this year, after a 24.9 percent return last year,
according to a monthly letter to investors.  Seer’s best-performing investments in April were in unusual
asset-backed securities and collateralized loan obligations,
which pool leveraged loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk, according to the letter. That reflects “our
capability to identify opportunities across subsectors” of
securitized debt beyond just residential- and commercial-
mortgage securities, Seer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  