-- 
Tycoon Clash Means Less Cash for Slim as Consumers Win

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-05-26T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/mexico-tycoon-clash-means-less-money-for-billionaires-as-consumers-win.html
(Corrects to say Elektra was founded by Salinas’s
grandfather in 21st paragraph of story published May 25, 2011.)  An escalating confrontation between
 Carlos Slim  and two fellow billionaires is driving prices lower
for phone, Internet and TV services in  Mexico , a boon for
consumers that could boost the nation’s economy.  TV and mobile-phone carriers controlled by  Ricardo Salinas 
and Emilio Azcarraga are pushing into Slim’s turf, and he is
responding with better deals for consumers. Slim’s  Telefonos de
Mexico SAB  teamed up in April with a satellite carrier to offer
services for a discount, and his  America Movil  SAB doubled the
amount of numbers wireless users can call at no extra charge.  The intensifying competition and authorities’ efforts to
end monopolistic practices means consumers are benefiting from
the most competitive market in Mexico in decades, said Roger Noll, professor emeritus of economics at  Stanford University ,
near Palo Alto,  California . The billionaires’ companies,
including  America Movil (AMXL)  with 70 percent of Mexico’s wireless
lines, have been left with slumping stock prices.  “I’m the most hopeful I’ve ever been,” said Noll, a
senior fellow at the American Antitrust Institute who has
tracked the Mexican phone industry for two decades. “Conditions
in the industry are the best they’ve been in 20 years.”  The economy may benefit as consumers are left with more
money to save, invest or spend on other products. Mexico  ranked 
66th out of 139 countries on the  World Economic Forum ’s 2010-
2011 Global Competitiveness Index, which measures countries by
the rules their governments use to boost productivity. That
ranking was down from 60th a year earlier and trailed  Brazil ,
 Panama ,  Costa Rica  and Uruguay among Latin American countries.  No Animosity  Mexican President  Felipe Calderon  introduced legislation
this month aimed at ending anticompetitive behavior by large
companies. Mexico has many industries dominated by one or two
players, including beer, TV broadcasting, cement and corn flour.  “I really respect Carlos Slim, or any other Mexican
enterprise,” Calderon said in an interview. “But at the same
time, I am the authority and I need to regulate the market in
order to avoid monopolistic practices.”  Slim’s competitors have offered cheaper rates and bundled
phone, Internet and TV services. The rivalry has pushed America
Movil’s  shares  down 15 percent this year, compared with an 8.2
percent drop in Mexico’s benchmark IPC index, of which the
mobile carrier has a 23 percent weight.  Slim, 71, the world’s richest man, and his two billionaire
rivals all live in Mexico City and have said publicly there is
no personal animus among them. Azcarraga showed up at the gala
opening of Slim’s art museum, Museo Soumaya, in March.  ‘Very Disruptive’  “We have different points of view,” Azcarraga, 43, said
in an interview last month. “We want to achieve a better
opportunity for our investors and users, and I believe they’re
looking for the same.”  Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO) , Azcarraga’s broadcaster that also owns
cable and satellite-TV carriers in Mexico, has fallen 16 percent
this year, and TV Azteca SAB, Salinas’s broadcaster, has dropped
9 percent. Both have lost revenue after Slim’s companies stopped
advertising with them this year.  The more intense competition and regulatory scrutiny may
mean the stocks of the larger service providers will continue to
suffer as they lose pricing power, said Frederick Searby, Latin
America equity strategist at Deutsche Bank AG. In addition to
consumers, winners may include smaller rivals such as  NII
Holdings Inc. (NIHD) , Mexico’s No. 4 mobile carrier, he said.  “It’s a fear for the market and a blessing, sort of like
when you move from a closed to an open economy,” Searby said in
a phone interview from New York. “It’s very disruptive.”  Showing Teeth  The biggest jolt to Slim’s empire, according to Searby,
came last month when the Mexican antitrust agency fined America
Movil $1 billion for anticompetitive practices in the market for
fees phone carriers charge each other to connect calls.  The fine, which America Movil is appealing, put the carrier
on notice that Mexico’s government was “showing it has teeth”
when enforcing antitrust law, Searby said. The legislation
introduced by Calderon this month increases penalties for
antitrust violations, including jail time.  America Movil Chief Financial Officer Carlos Garcia Moreno
said regulators play a “marginal” role in reducing prices.  “What lowers prices is sustained investment,” Garcia
Moreno said in an interview. Spending on network infrastructure
and capacity lowers prices by increasing the supply of airtime,
he said. Between 2005 and 2011, Telcel’s price per minute of
phone airtime dropped 54 percent in nominal terms, he said.  Amassing Fortunes  Salinas, whose companies include Grupo Iusacell SA,
Mexico’s third-largest wireless carrier, told reporters this
month that Telmex’s dominance had kept better offerings from
coming to consumers.  Televisa’s cable units have offered packages of phone, Web
and TV service that have helped reduce the price of  Internet
access  in the country, Javier Tejado, the company’s information
director, said in an interview.  Azcarraga’s family has controlled Televisa’s broadcast-TV
business and its radio predecessor for three generations. Since
becoming Televisa’s CEO 14 years ago, when his father Emilio
died, Azcarraga has amassed stakes in a satellite-TV operator,
three cable-TV carriers and a nationwide phone network.  Salinas, 55, made his fortune in retail after taking over
as chief executive officer of  Grupo Elektra SA (ELEKTRA*) , the chain his
grandfather founded, in 1987. In 1993, Salinas created TV Azteca
after heading an investor group that purchased television
stations from the Mexican government for $643 million.  Slim’s TV Plans  Slim acquired Telmex in a government privatization sale in
1990 after building a fortune by buying companies and property
during dips in Mexico’s economy. America Movil spun off from
Telmex in 1990 and acquired networks across  Latin America ,
eventually becoming the controlling shareholder in its former
parent. Slim also has mining, banking and construction assets.  America Movil represents about 62 percent of Slim’s $71.2
billion in public holdings, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. America Movil owns about 60 percent of Telmex, with
the rest publicly traded.  Telmex represents a part of Slim’s empire that may benefit
from regulators’ drive to increase competition. Telmex has  risen 
9.6 percent this year as investors predict Mexico’s government
will let it offer TV service, helping it compete against cable
carriers’ packages of video, phone and Internet, according to
Gregorio Tomassi, a Banco Santander SA analyst in Mexico City.  Telmex has sought that approval since at least 2006, and
the company has dealt with the government’s refusal to grant it
by striking up an alliance with Dish Mexico, the nation’s
second-largest satellite-TV company. Since 2009, Telmex has
allowed its customers to pay for Dish service through their
phone bills and has hosted Dish kiosks in its stores.  ‘Real Competition’  Last month, for the first time, Telmex and Dish made a
joint offer, a plan with 32 TV channels and a phone line with
100 local calls and 50 national long-distance minutes for 299
pesos ($26) a month. That compared with a plan by Televisa’s
Empresas Cablevision SAB unit with 70 channels and unlimited
home-phone calls for 359 pesos.  America Movil’s Mexican wireless unit, Telcel, began
allowing users to pick 20 phone numbers to call without paying
for additional airtime, up from 10 previously.  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,
which has 22 percent of Mexico’s wireless market compared with
Telcel’s 70 percent, has begun offering plans that allow users
to call any other Telefonica client for no additional cost.  Competition in the wireless market may intensify further
after Azcarraga’s Televisa completes a $1.6 billion investment
in Salinas’s Iusacell, an agreement reached last month.  “We’re going to create a competition, a real competition,
that can provide a better product, a better service and a
cheaper price for the user, at the same time making money out of
it,” Azcarraga said in the interview, referring to Iusacell.  ‘Age-Old Story’  Iusacell is also starting a service called  Totalplay  that
provides phone, Internet and TV plans to home users over fiber-
optic lines, with prices that are often cheaper than Telmex’s
plans for Web and phone alone. Telmex is building a network this
year to extend fiber-optic cables to 1 million homes this year
in 40 cities, mainly in places where Totalplay is being
installed, a person with knowledge of the plan said this month.  Mexico’s phone regulator is also proving a tough adversary
to Slim, slashing by more than half the fees Telcel wanted to
charge rivals to connect calls from their users to its own
clients. Mexico’s  Supreme Court  ruled last month that while
Telcel can appeal the regulator’s decision, it must abide by the
prices set by the government while it challenges them in court.  While the rulings are encouraging, Slim’s competitors
haven’t done enough to pass lower prices on to consumers, said
Alejandro Calvillo, president of  Consumer Power , a not-for-
profit advocacy group in Mexico.  He said regulators also have done little to address
concentrations of power in other markets such as TV, where
Televisa and  TV Azteca (AZTECACP)  share almost all of the broadcast market.  “This is the age-old story on Mexico, right?” said Searby
of Deutsche Bank. “To increase competition, you have to go
after duopolies and go after the basic costs and services. To
get a faster growth rate and become a more competitive country,
you have to do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  