-- 
Hezbollah Leader Calls on Arabs to Withdraw 2002 Peace Plan

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-05-25T17:04:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/hezbollah-leader-calls-on-arabs-to-withdraw-2002-peace-plan.html
Hezbollah’s leader,  Hassan Nasrallah ,
called on Arab leaders to withdraw a 2002 peace initiative in
response to comments this week by U.S. President  Barack Obama 
and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.  “When we hear the speeches and the stances of Obama and
Netanyahu, we become more convinced of our choices,” Nasrallah
said today in a televised speech marking the Israeli army’s 2000
pullout from southern Lebanon, ending a 22-year occupation.  The developments of the past years “proved that the
correct choice, the realistic and logical one is that of the
popular armed resistance,” according to Nasrallah, who said
that peace talks “are the wrong choice.” He urged the
scrapping of the Arab peace plan, which called for peace between
 Israel  and Arab countries after Israel returns land it captured
in the 1967 Middle East war.  Obama and Netanyahu met in the White House May 20, after
the president called for an Israeli-Palestinian accord that
includes a return to the borders that existed before the June
1967 war, along with mutually agreeable land swaps. The Israeli
leader rejected the plan, describing as “indefensible” the 1967
lines that defined the boundaries of the  West Bank , the  Gaza
Strip , east Jerusalem and the  Golan Heights , areas that Israel
captured in the war from Jordan, Egypt and Syria.  Nasrallah also said reports by some Arab media outlets that
members of his Shiite Muslim group have taken part in popular
unrest in  Syria , Libya, Bahrain and Yemen are false.  Al-Assad  It’s important for Lebanon to support the stability of
Syria and the regime of President Bashar Al-Assad because of
Syria’s support for Hezbollah, which resulted in “liberation on
May 25, 2000, and the July 2006 victory,” Nasrallah said.  The group won popularity in Lebanon by helping to force
Israel’s military to withdraw from the country in 2000. Israel
fought an monthlong war against Hezbollah in 2006.  The fall of the regime in Syria would serve only the
“interests of the U.S. and Israel,” the Hezbollah leader said.
Assad wants to implement reform and is “determined” to
introduce changes and the wide majority of the Syrian people
support him, he said.  The U.S. and Israel classify Hezbollah as a terrorist
organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 