-- 
Fed’s Kocherlakota Lowers Forecast for Economic Growth, Urges Tightening

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-05-25T18:57:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/fed-s-kocherlakota-lowers-forecast-for-economic-growth-urges-tightening.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  trimmed his forecast for U.S.
economic growth and raised his outlook for unemployment slightly
while reiterating his call for higher interest rates this year.  Unemployment will be “close to 8.5 percent” at year’s
end, Kocherlakota said in a speech in Rochester,  Minnesota , an
estimate contrasting with “between 8 percent and 8.5 percent”
in a May 11 speech. Economic growth will be “around 3
percent,” compared with “between 3 percent and 3.5 percent.”  “Given the depth of the recession that we experienced,
this rate of growth is disappointing,” Kocherlakota said.  The policy-making  Federal Open Market Committee  is
discussing how quickly to begin tightening policy after
completing the purchase of $600 billion in U.S. Treasuries by
the end of June. They are also considering a strategy for how to
remove stimulus, with a majority favoring ending the policy of
reinvesting proceeds from maturing securities first before
raising  interest rates  or selling assets, minutes of their April
26-27 meeting showed last week.  Kocherlakota repeated his call for an increase in the
target federal funds rate by 0.5 percentage point under his
forecast, following St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  who
yesterday said the central bank may need to tighten policy this
year. In contrast, New York Fed President William C. Dudley said
last week the recovery is trailing the Fed’s goals, and opposed
a policy response to a temporary rise in food and energy prices.  ‘Modest Amount’  “Under my baseline forecast, it would be desirable for the
FOMC to raise the fed funds target interest rate by a modest
amount toward the end of 2011,” Kocherlakota said.  In response to audience questions, Kocherlakota said he
doesn’t expect the European debt crisis to have much of an
impact on U.S. growth.  “The direct linkages from  Europe  are relatively small,”
though “fear” and uncertainly have the potential to provoke
volatility in U.S. markets, he said.  Congress should reverse the growth in U.S. debt and
deficits, which may prove to be a long-term threat to the Fed’s
ability to keep inflation low and stable, the Minneapolis Fed
chief said.  “It is critical for the U.S. to get into a viable debt and
deficit position,” he said. “Otherwise, it will conflict with
our ability to carry out our  price stability  mandate.”  ‘Headwinds’ for Economy  “Headwinds in the  U.S. economy ” include increased savings
by households seeking to restore net worth “in response to past
and possibly future falls in residential land prices,” he said.
A focus by banks on loan problems rather than on making new
loans also inhibits the recovery, he said.  Regarding the labor market, Kocherlakota said he expects to
“see conditions improving slowly.”  The economy grew at a 1.8 percent pace in the first quarter
of 2011, according to Commerce Department data. Growth will pick
up to 3.3 percent in the current quarter and 2.7 percent for the
year, according to the median of 67 economists surveyed this
month by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  