-- 
Fiat May Boost Chrysler Stake to More Than 51% Before IPO, Marchionne Says

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-05-25T10:23:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/fiat-may-boost-chrysler-stake-to-more-than-51-before-ipo-marchionne-says.html
Fiat SpA (F)  may boost its stake in
Chrysler Group LLC to more than 51 percent before an initial
public offering of the U.S. automaker, as it seeks to buy the
shares for less money.  “It’s possible” that Fiat will buy more Chrysler stock,
 Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both companies,
told reporters today in Turin, where the Italian carmaker is
based. “The more we wait, the more it costs” to buy shares
from the  U.S. Treasury , he said.  Fiat boosted its holding in Chrysler to 46 percent
yesterday after the U.S. carmaker repaid $7.6 billion in U.S.
and Canadian government loans. The CEO, wearing a “paid” pin on
his trademark navy blue sweater, said Fiat will consolidate
Chrysler results from June 1. Fiat expects to get an additional
5 percent stake in the fourth quarter, in return for developing
a fuel-efficient car for  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler.  Fiat rose as much as 24 cents, or 3.4 percent, to 7.14
euros and traded at 7.11 euros, up 3 percent, at 11:55 a.m. in
Milan, valuing the company at 8.7 billion euros ($12 billion).  “Marchionne is playing fast in the integration with
Chrysler, and this is also good news for the shares,” said
Wolfram Mrowetz, chairman of Alisei SIM in Milan, who oversees
200 million euros in assets including Fiat shares. “Marchionne
is great at managing the financial aspects, now he has to also
concentrate on products and regaining market share in  Europe .”  A merger of Fiat and Chrysler is planned to reduce costs
and improve integration, though there is no set timing and a
combination isn’t likely this year, Marchionne said. The CEO is
preparing to sell Chrysler shares to the public later this year
or in 2012, depending upon market conditions and cash needs.  Options  Fiat has options to increase its Chrysler holding to more
than 70 percent, the U.S. company said this month in a filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Those options
include the right to buy the Treasury’s remaining stake in the
12 months after government loans are repaid.  The U.S. government now owns 6.6 percent of Chrysler,
Canadian authorities own 1.7 percent and a retiree health-care
trust managed by the United Auto Workers union holds 45.7
percent, Eileen Wunderlich, a Chrysler spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail.  Fiat also has an option to acquire 40 percent of the
original stake held by the UAW trust, Chrysler said. The option
is exercisable from July 1, 2012, to Dec. 31, 2016, and in
amounts of as much as 8 percent in any six-month period,
according to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  