-- 
FIFA Presidential Nominee Bin Hammam, Vice President Warner Face Probe

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-25T15:28:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/fifa-presidential-nominee-bin-hammam-vice-president-warner-face-probe.html
Soccer’s governing body has opened an
investigation into bribery allegations against FIFA presidential
candidate Mohamed bin Hammam and Jack Warner, the official
responsible for the sport in North and Central America.  The ethics committee’s probe comes out of a complaint to
FIFA’s General Secretary  Jerome Valcke  by Chuck Blazer, a U.S.-
based official who sits with Warner and Bin Hammam on the
governing body’s decision-making executive body. FIFA announced
the investigation today in an e-mailed statement. Bin Hammam
denied the allegations in a statement on his  personal website .  The news is the latest blow to the Zurich-based
organization’s reputation. It’s already investigating corruption
claims against six officials who voted during the bidding races
for the 2018 and 2022 World Cups. Incumbent Sepp Blatter and Bin
Hammam have been canvassing FIFA’s 208-nation membership ahead
of a vote on June 1.  Bin Hammam, Warner and two officials from the Caribbean
Football Union have been asked to attend a hearing with FIFA’s
ethics committee, a statement said today.  The statement said Blazer wrote to Valcke yesterday saying
the officials violated FIFA’s ethics code at specially organized
meeting between the  Caribbean Football Union , which represents
30 soccer nations, and Bin Hammam earlier this month.  “In view of the facts alleged in this report, which
include bribery allegations” Valcke called for the
investigation, FIFA said.  ‘Tactic’  Bin Hammam, a 62-year-old Qatari, said the allegations were
“little more than a tactic being used by those who have no
confidence in their own ability to emerge successfully from the
FIFA presidential election.”  The chairman of the ethics committee, Claudio Sulser,
declined to participate in the investigation because he shares
Swiss nationality with Blatter, who’s going for a fourth term.
The meeting will instead be chaired by Namibian Petrus Damaseb.
He was still in  Namibia  today. The hearing is scheduled for May
29.  “I just got word two hours ago,” Damaseb said in a
telephone interview. “I can’t tell you when I am going.”  Blatter last week said the organization may have to improve
its communication, particularly when it comes to dealing with
impropriety. He’s pledged a “zero tolerance’ approach to
governance and compliance within FIFA if he’s re-elected. He
says there are people inside soccer’s governing body that
“don’t deserve to be.”  Marketing Collapse  The 2001 collapse of marketing partner ISL revealed some
FIFA officials had been paid bribes for decades, according to
documents filed with a court in Zug,  Switzerland . An out-of-
court settlement was made last year. Bin Hammam said the
organization needs greater transparency.  The  World Cup  vote, won by Russia for 2018 and Qatar for the
2022 event, was played out against a backdrop of corruption
allegations stemming from reports in the U.K. media. A story by
the Sunday Times led to the suspension of two voters after they
allegedly told undercover reporters their decisions could be
bought.  A meeting with a former member of Qatar’s bid team who told
the Sunday Times two officials were paid $1.5 million to select
the Gulf state didn’t take place today “on the advice of
his/her lawyer,” FIFA said in an e-mail.  Corruption has affected FIFA’s relationship with sponsors
that contribute much of the $4 billion the governing body gets
from its World Cup.  In October, Sony Corp.’s head of sponsorship said the
electronics maker preferred to be associated with the tournament
and not the governing body. Sportswear maker Adidas AG in a
statement said “the negative tenor of public debates is neither
good for the sport of football nor for FIFA as an institution
and its partners.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 