-- 
FIFA Bribery Probe Said to Have Evidence of $40,000 Payments by Bin Hammam

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-26T17:57:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/fifa-bribery-probe-said-to-have-evidence-of-40-000-payments-by-bin-hammam.html
Mohamed  Bin Hammam  is accused by
FIFA, soccer’s governing body, of offering $40,000 to Caribbean
soccer officials as part of his pitch to become president of the
body, two people familiar with the situation said.  Bin Hammam, the head of soccer in  Asia , is alleged to have
offered about $2 million in cash to delegates at a meeting in
Trinidad as funds for “football development,” said the people,
who asked for anonymity because they weren’t authorized to
comment publicly on the case.  “I completely deny any allegations of wrongdoing either
intentionally or unknowingly while I was in the Caribbean,” Bin
Hammam, a 62-year-old Qatari, said in a statement yesterday.  FIFA  opened ethics proceedings against Bin Hammam and Jack Warner, the head of soccer in North and Central America, along
with two officials of the Caribbean Football Union, about
“possible violations of the FIFA code of ethics,” including
allegations of bribery, it said in a statement yesterday.  The four must give a response by tomorrow. A disciplinary
hearing will follow on May 29, three days before the June 1
presidential contest between Bin Hammam and incumbent Sepp Blatter of  Switzerland . Warner also denies wrongdoing.  Denial  Bin Hammam said on his  website  that the allegations about
his meeting with Caribbean officials were “little more than a
tactic being used by those who have no confidence in their own
ability to emerge successfully from the FIFA presidential
election.”  Blatter denied he had anything to do with the allegations,
saying he got no pleasure from seeing “men who stood by my side
for some two decades suffer through public humiliation without
having been convicted of any wrongdoing.”  Suggestions that he “masterminded” the current scandal
are “ludicrous and completely reprehensible,” Blatter said a
column on the  Inside World Football website .  In an e-mailed statement today, Bin Hammam said he’s asked for
Blatter to be included in the probe because -- as part of the
evidence provided to FIFA -- there were statements according to
which the FIFA president “was informed of, and did not oppose”
the alleged payments.  “The timing of the accusations so close to the election of
FIFA president on June 1, 2011, suggests that they are part of a
plan to damage Mr. Bin Hammam and force him to withdraw as a
candidate for the FIFA presidency,” he said in the statement.  Blatter’s U.K.-based communications adviser, Brian
Alexander, declined to comment.  Evidence to FIFA  Colin Klass, the president of Guyana’s soccer federation,
said he attended the meeting in Trinidad with Bin Hammam and
didn’t recall anything “improper” taking place.  “Maybe they put something in our drinks to make us forget
because I’m racking my brains but I don’t see anything
improper,” Klass said in a telephone interview. He is also vice
president of the Caribbean Football Union.  The evidence presented to FIFA includes photographs of the
money, e-mails,  text messages  and signed affidavits from
officials that corroborate the allegations, one of the people
said, adding that the inquiry started May 15.  John Collins, a partner at Chicago law firm Collins &
Collins, said in a telephone interview yesterday that he
compiled the file after a complaint by U.S.-based FIFA board
member Chuck Blazer and submitted it to FIFA’s ethics board.  Collins, a former U.S. prosecutor, is the outside general
counsel for the Confederation of North, Central America and
Caribbean Association Football, or  Concacaf , the governing body
in the region.  Corruption Scandal  Blazer, Concacaf’s general secretary, didn’t respond to
telephone messages or e-mails seeking comment. Concacaf
spokesman Steve Torres didn’t return a voicemail seeking
comment.  The case is the latest corruption scandal to hit FIFA, a
not-for-profit organization that banks $1 billion in revenue
annually.  Former English Football Association Chairman  David Triesman 
told a U.K. parliamentary committee this month that Warner and
three other members of the 22-man panel voting on the hosts for
the 2018 and 2022 World Cups asked for favors.  Warner and the others deny that charge and FIFA asked the
English F.A. to supply evidence to back up the allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 