-- 
BlackRock’s Fink No. 1 in Wall Street Pay as Stock Sinks 16%

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-05-25T04:01:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/fink-no-1-in-wall-street-pay-as-blackrock-stock-sinks-16-on-ishares-deal.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  Chief Executive
Officer Larry Fink told investors on a conference call in
January last year that the world’s biggest money manager was
“very well positioned” for 2010. At the end of the year, the
market sent a different message: New York-based BlackRock’s
total share return was negative 16 percent, while the Standard
and Poor’s 500 Asset Management and Custody Bank Index rose 13
percent.  BlackRock’s disappointing stock performance followed its
best year since 2000, with total return soaring 77 percent in
2009.  Even as Fink, 58, struggled to deliver  shareholder value ,
he received $23.8 million in salary and stock. That made him No.
1 in the Finance 50, Bloomberg Markets magazine’s annual ranking
of the best-paid CEOs at the largest U.S.-based financial
companies by market capitalization. The ranking appears in the
July issue of Bloomberg Markets.  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) ’s John Strangfeld is No. 2 in the
ranking, with total pay of $22.6 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Insurer  AON Corp. (AON) ’s Gregory Case is No.
3, at $20.8 million.  Fink got a 50 percent raise over his 2009 compensation. And
he wasn’t the only top financial executive to see a big jump in
his pay. Average compensation for Finance 50 CEOs who held the
same job in 2009 rose 26 percent to $11.5 million in 2010 after
falling for two years.  Withering Criticism  Average compensation was down 21 percent to $9 million in
2009 and 19 percent to $11.4 million in 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The big pay raise marks an end to a period when financial
executives and their boards retreated in the face of withering
criticism from Congress, shareholders and the media, says Tim White of Kaye/Bassman International Corp., a Dallas-based
executive search firm.  “Most shareholders and most taxpayers have short me-
mories,” White says. “The public perception of  executive
compensation  is different today than it was two or three years
ago, simply because the investing climate has changed and we’re
not in a world of panic or bailouts anymore.”  Two bank executives saw their pay rise more than 10-fold.
The board of directors of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  paid CEO Jamie Dimon $20.8 million, an increase of 1,474.5 percent over 2009.
His salary, bonus and other compensation add up to $6.6 million;
the rest is restricted stock and  stock options .  Goldman Bonus Back  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s board paid CEO Lloyd Blankfein
$14.1 million, an increase of 1,276 percent from 2009. The
package included $7.7 million in restricted stock and a cash
bonus of $5.4 million, ending two years in which the firm’s top
executives gave up their bonuses.  JPMorgan investors earned a total return for 2010 of 2.3
percent; Goldman Sachs investors, 0.5 percent.  “Look at Goldman Sachs,” says  Donald Selkin ,  New York- 
based chief market strategist at National Securities Corp.,
which manages $3 billion and invests in financial stocks. “The
stock has struggled while management has enriched itself. We
really need a better connection between stock price and pay.”  The ranking includes CEOs who held their jobs for at least
10 months in 2010 and is based on compensation data reported to
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in the firms’ annual
proxy statements. Those numbers sometimes match, and sometimes
differ sharply from, statements from the banks, brokerages and
insurance companies concerning the compensation they intended to
give their top executives for the work they did in 2010.  Two Ways of Counting  In the case of BlackRock’s Fink, for example, the two sets
of pay numbers are virtually the same -- $23.8 million in the
SEC data versus $23.7 elsewhere in the proxy.  In the case of Blankfein, the figures provided to the SEC
say he received $14.1 million, while in a separate statement,
the bank said it was awarding him $19 million for the work he
did in 2010, with some of it not delivered to him until the
early months of 2011.  The difference is still more stark in the case of  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  CEO  Brian T. Moynihan ; his SEC-reported pay in
2010 was $1.9 million, while in a separate statement, BofA said
it was awarding him $9.1 million in restricted stock for his
2010 performance.  The big pay hikes for bank and asset management CEOs were
handed out amid flat or sinking 2010 share prices. Fink,
Blankfein, Dimon, Moynihan and Morgan Stanley CEO  James Gorman 
all made Bloomberg Markets’ list of financial executives who
provided the least shareholder value in 2010.  Negative Returns  According to Bloomberg data, Morgan Stanley investors
earned a total return of negative 7.4 percent for the year; Bank
of America investors, negative 11.2 percent.  “Who do you blame, the chief executive officer or the
compensation committee at the board level?” asks  Hugh Johnson ,
who oversees $1.9 billion as chairman of  Albany , New York-based
Hugh Johnson Advisors LLC. “The important thing to me as an
investor is whether the CEO delivered the financial results, and
boards need to have more backbone when it comes to punishing
lack of results. We’ve tried to get rid of company cronyism
through regulatory reform, and we’ve had some success. But we
aren’t there yet.”  Both Bank of America’s Moynihan and  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Gorman
saw their companies’ stock prices plummet in their first years
as CEO. BofA posted a $2.2 billion net loss in 2010 as the bank
took $12.4 billion in impairments on mortgage and credit card
operations. The bank said in a filing that the CEO and other
executives’ pay was based on “recognition of 2010 as a unique
and critical transition year for the company.”  $20 Million Club  Insurance companies were an exception to the stock swoon.
Four insurance firms made the Finance 50’s top six; they had
total stock returns ranging from 14.8 percent for Travelers Cos.
to 24.6 percent for  Chubb Corp. (CB)  All four CEOs are members of the
$20 million club.  “There isn’t the political turmoil surrounding CEO
compensation in the  insurance industry ,” says Richard Lipstein,
managing director at Boyden Global Executive Search. “You’ll
always need insurance, and there’s still a lot of pricing power
in the industry.”  Total  net income  for U.S. private property and casualty
insurers rose to $34.7 billion last year, up from $28.7 billion
in 2009, according to ISO, a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based
insurance research firm, and the  Property Casualty Insurers
Association of America .  Fink BGI Purchase  Fink’s BlackRock manages $3.65 trillion, including
distressed assets owned by the  Federal Reserve . Jason Weyeneth,
a New York-based analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., blames
last year’s poor stock performance on the fact that investors
expected BlackRock’s purchase of  Barclays Global Investors ,
which it bought from Barclays Plc in 2009 for $12.5 billion, to
contribute more to earnings.  By buying BGI, BlackRock took ownership of the iShares
exchange-traded funds.  “I think most people would consider Fink as one of the
brightest and best managers within the asset management space,”
says Weyeneth, who has a “buy” rating on BlackRock shares.  In a statement, a BlackRock spokesman said, “Mr. Fink’s
2010 compensation reflected a wide range of factors, including
BlackRock’s record financial performance last year -- with
revenues up 83 percent, earnings up 54 percent, dividends up 38
percent and strong asset growth and investment results across
our newly expanded business.”  BlackRock reported first-quarter profit of $568 million, a
34 percent increase from the year earlier, as assets under
management rose 2.5 percent from the previous quarter. The stock
is up 1.3 percent this year as of the close of market yesterday.  Pandit’s Dollar Deal  The financial executive providing the most shareholder
value for his pay in 2010 was  Citigroup Inc. (C)  CEO Vikram Pandit,
who took just $1 in salary and no bonus or stock options, while
Citigroup’s total stock return soared 43 percent.  Pandit told Congress in February 2009 that he would take a
$1 salary until the bank became profitable again. That happened
last year, as the bank logged a $10.6 billion profit after
losing a total of $29.3 billion in 2008 and 2009.  In January, the board awarded Pandit a $1.75 million cash
salary for 2011. In May, it granted him a retention award that
included $10 million in deferred stock, stock options valued at
$6.5 million and a profit-sharing payment that could reach $26
million if the company meets analysts’ expectations.  Buffett a Good Value  The executive ranking No. 2 in best shareholder value is
 Warren Buffett , CEO and chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ,
who, as is his custom, took no bonus or stock options and just
$100,000 in Berkshire salary. Berkshire’s stock returned 21
percent.  Buffett’s total pay was $525,000, including personal and
home security services and a director’s fee from Washington Post
Co. His personal stake in Berkshire’s A and B shares added up to
more than $45 billion as of the close of trading yesterday.  The Dodd-Frank financial regulatory overhaul enacted in
July 2010 requires the SEC and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. to write new compensation rules for financial companies.
Among the measures being proposed is one that would require at
least 50 percent of incentive-based pay to be deferred for three
years or more. The prospect of restrictive new regulations on
financial company operations is helping to keep their stock
prices down, Kaye/Bassman’s White says.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty with relation to taxes and
what the regulatory landscape is going to look like going
forward,” he says.  Paying Back TARP  Of the 50 companies in the ranking, 24 received money from
the government’s Troubled Asset Relief Program. Of those, three
have failed to pay it back. One of those was Buffalo, New York-
based  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)   M&T CEO Robert G. Wilmers, No. 47 in the Finance 50 ranking
and No. 3 in the best-shareholder-value list, took a 16 percent
pay cut in 2010 while his company’s stock gained 35 percent.  The big pay boosts in the wake of poor stock performance
given to men like Blankfein and Moynihan garner more notice.  “They’re held to a different standard,” White says.
“They have to wear the hats of a global financial steward, and
as a consequence of that, the lower they keep their compensation
profile, the better.”  -- With assistance from Laurie Meisler and Donal Griffin in  New
York . Editors: Michael Serrill, Vince Bielski.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net 
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net . 