-- 
Flogging Could Answer U.S. Prison Problems (Seriously): Books

-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 
2011-05-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/flogging-could-answer-u-s-prison-problems-seriously-books.html
“ In Defense of Flogging ” isn’t a
joke, a satire or a thought experiment.  Peter Moskos , a former
Baltimore cop who’s now a professor at John Jay College of
Criminal Justice, seriously wants to reintroduce corporal
punishment in the  United States .  Don’t laugh: He makes a convincing case. From the
straightforward question he begins with -- “Given the choice
between five years in prison and 10 brutal lashes, which would
you choose?” -- he had my attention.  Moskos isn’t a sadist or a fetishist. In fact, he finds
flogging distasteful. (He describes the physical effects in
graphic detail: “skin is literally ripped from the body,”
etc.)  But he’s far more outraged by the American penal system,
which incarcerates the largest total number (2.3 million) and
the largest per capita proportion (750 per 100,000) of prisoners
of any country in the world. When the U.S. has criticized  China 
on human-rights issues, Beijing has had the satisfaction of
pointing to these figures in response.  I doubt that even those of Moskos’s readers most aghast at
his ideas will try to argue that American prisons are anything
other than dysfunctional. Moskos shows how the current system
gradually replaced corporal punishment with the goal of
rehabilitating wrongdoers.  Schools for Crime  But since it has long been evident that penitentiaries are
little better than schools for crime, he compares the true
believers in the “curative promises” of rehabilitationists
with diehard communists.  However promising their ideas once seemed, “for modern
reformers to maintain a utopian vision of incarceration that
flies in the face of two centuries of real-world failure is
inexcusable.”  Flogging as punishment would be less disruptive to society
than incarceration, since “from behind bars a prisoner can’t be
a father, hold a job, maintain a relationship or take care of
elderly grandparents.” It would also cost taxpayers far, far
less.  Which is why what Moskos calls the Prison-Industrial
Complex -- the “political confluence of various interest groups
that benefit from the business of incarceration” -- would
furiously oppose it. Prisons have become such a massive industry
in the U.S. that downsizing them could mean thousands of jobs
lost. But is that really a reason to keep building them?  Beat Me  Moskos offers two important qualifiers to his proposal.
First, he’s advocating corporal punishment “as an alternative
to incarceration, not an addition to it.” (Unfortunately, it’s
all too easy to imagine what might happen to this nuance in our
punishment-happy culture.)  Second, he considers it essential that such punishment
“only be done with the consent of the flogged. The status quo
of incarceration is always an option.”  “In Defense of Flogging” is one of the very few public-
policy books I’ve encountered that goes past wringing its hands
over a societal problem to offer a viable solution, by which I
mean one with a prayer of being put into place because it has
appeal across the political spectrum.  Conservatives could embrace corporal punishment as a real
and serious punishment for crime (in a way they couldn’t
embrace, say, financial penalties or community service).
Liberals could accept it as an option that gives wrongdoers a
much better shot at a future than a prison sentence does.  Impulse Buy  And at just over 150 pages of clear, smart and highly
readable prose, Moskos’s sharp little volume has a potential
audience far beyond the experts who dutifully slog through most
tomes like this. It’s the kind of item that could be stacked
next to a bookstore’s cash register. Think about it for a
Fathers’ Day gift.  So does my enthusiasm mean I’m ready to endorse flogging?
Not quite. Penology is so far beyond my field of expertise that
I want to see the enraged counterarguments first. I know one
thing, though. Given the choice between 10 lashes and five
years, I’d take the whip. Let the debate begin.  “In Defense of Flogging” is published by Basic (183
pages, $20). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 