-- 
Florida’s Scott Least Popular Governor: Poll

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-05-25T18:44:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/florida-s-scott-least-popular-governor-poll.html
Florida  Republican Governor  Rick Scott , whose fiscal 2012 budget reduces school spending and
requires pension payments from state workers for the first time,
scored the lowest job-approval rating of any governor covered by
 Quinnipiac University  polls.  Scott’s performance since he took office in January was
endorsed by 29 percent of those questioned in a May 17-23  survey
released  today by Quinnipiac. That’s down from 35 percent in
April and lowest of the six governors followed by the pollster,
including Republicans  John Kasich  of Ohio and Tom Corbett of
 Pennsylvania .  Florida’s $69.7 billion 2012 spending plan is $842 million
smaller than this year’s. It cuts education by $2.5 billion and
makes workers pay 3 percent of wages toward retirement. Fifty-
four percent of voters in the Quinnipiac poll said the budget is
“unfair” compared with 29 percent who back it.  “That’s a giant flashing political warning sign for
Scott,”  Peter Brown , assistant director of the Quinnipiac
University Polling Institute in Hamden, Connecticut, said in a
statement.  Scott is making the “tough choices” necessary to create
700,000 jobs, a key campaign promise, said Lane Wright, a
spokesman.  “While he is mindful of the concerns from various
individuals and interest groups, Governor Scott is confident
he’s making the right choices to benefit Florida as a whole,”
he said in an e-mail.  Budget Signing  Scott, the first Florida governor elected with less than 50
percent of the vote since 1916, will sign the budget tomorrow in
the Villages, a retirement community northwest of Orlando, Scott
said in a release yesterday. The Republican-dominated
Legislature passed the measure on May 7.  The millionaire former health-care executive’s approval
rating is  9 percentage points  lower than Kasich’s and  10 points
less  than Corbett’s. The three were elected in November after
campaigning to limit taxes and state spending.  Connecticut  Democrat Dan Malloy had a  35 percent  approval
rating in Quinnipiac’s March 9 poll, and Democrat  Andrew Cuomo 
of  New York  scored  64 percent  on April 13. New Jersey’s  Chris Christie , a Republican elected in 2009, had a  47 percent 
approval rating in a survey released April 20.  Scott’s disapproval score began at 22 percent on  Feb. 2 ,
the first Quinnipiac poll of his term. It was 48 percent on
 April 6  and 57 percent in today’s survey.  “The good news for the governor is that he has three-and-
a-half years to turn public opinion around,” Brown said.  Quinnipiac surveyed 1,196 registered voters in its poll,
which has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.8 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 