-- 
Food Inflation to Quicken as Nestle, McDonald’s Lift Prices

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-05-25T21:43:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/food-cost-gains-to-quicken-as-nestle-whole-foods-raise-prices.html
U.S. food-price inflation may top the
government’s forecast as higher crop, meat, dairy and energy
costs lead companies including Nestle SA,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and
 Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFMI)  to boost prices.  Retail-food prices will jump more than the U.S. Department
of Agriculture’s estimate of 3 percent to 4 percent this year,
said Chad E. Hart, an economist at  Iowa State University  in
Ames. Companies will pass along more of their higher costs
through year-end, said Bill Lapp, a former ConAgra Foods Inc.
chief economist.  Groceries and restaurant meals rose 2.4 percent in the four
months through April, the most to start a year since 1990,
government data show. During the period, rice, wheat and milk
futures touched the highest levels since 2008, and retail beef
reached a record. Yesterday, J.M. Smucker Co. announced an 11
percent price increase for Folgers coffee, the best-selling U.S.
brand, after the cost of beans almost doubled in a year.  “It’s going to be a tough year” for U.S. shoppers, said
Lapp, who is president of Advanced Economic Solutions, an
agriculture consultant in Omaha,  Nebraska . “You’re looking at
an economy where a lot of consumers are under some serious
pressure from food and fuel costs.”  Even after a drop in commodities this month, seven of eight
tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index are
higher than a year earlier as adverse weather damages crops,
rising demand erodes inventories and a weak dollar boosts demand
for U.S. exports. Corn futures are up 98 percent, wheat gained
67 percent, raw sugar advanced 44 percent, and rice jumped 25
percent.  Crop Damage  Dry weather during this year in  Europe ,  China  and the
southern Great Plains of the U.S. may cut crop yields, while
floods along the  Mississippi River  this month may slow planting
of corn, soybeans and rice. The U.S. is the world’s largest
agricultural exporter.  The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization said
May 23 that price swings will persist in coming years because of
mismatches between supply and demand. The FAO said May 5 that
global food costs rose in April for the ninth time in 10 months,
near the record reached in February. Signs of inflation have
prompted at least two dozen central banks, including in China
and Europe, to raise  interest rates  this year.  Higher wholesale costs over the past two years are still
working their way through the supply chain, and companies
including foodmakers and grocers are showing more willingness to
pass along the increases to consumers, said Hart, the Iowa State
agricultural economist.  Delayed Retail Increases  Surging prices for corn, used mostly as livestock feed,
have contributed to the rally in wholesale beef and pork costs
during the past year, as livestock producers limited herd
expansion to limit expenses on feed.  “The biggest impact is six to 12 months out” for meat
prices, Hart said.  Whole Foods, based in Austin,  Texas , and the largest U.S.
natural-goods grocer, said vendors have increased food prices
this year. “Right now, we’re able to pass it all on,” Co-Chief
Executive Officer Walter Robb said May 4 in a telephone
interview.  McDonald’s, Cracker Barrel  Oak Brook , Illinois-based McDonald’s, the world’s biggest
restaurant chain, raised U.S. menu prices 1 percent in March to
help offset higher commodity costs, Chief Financial Officer
Peter Bensen said during an April 21 conference call. The
company expects food expenses to increase as much as 4.5 percent
in the U.S. and Europe this year.  Double-digit gains in pork, butter, coffee and lettuce
costs during the three months ended April 29 led Lebanon,
Tennessee-based Cracker Barrel Old Country Store Inc. to raise
restaurant menu prices by 1.5 percent in March. Commodity
inflation has been “above our expectations,” Chief Executive
Officer Michael Woodhouse said yesterday on a conference call.  A prolonged economic slowdown would curb demand and may
halt further price increases, said Lapp, the former ConAgra
economist. Unlike in 2008, when food rose at the fastest pace in
28 years, consumers are quick to seek cheaper alternatives, he
said.  ‘Alarming’ Increases  Some of the retail-food increases, including meats, fruits
and vegetables, are “alarming,” he said. “The consumer’s
ability to absorb higher prices isn’t as robust at this point,”
and companies may be less willing to charge more because they
don’t want to forfeit market share, he said.  Paul Bulcke, the chief executive officer of Vevey,
Switzerland-based Nestle, the world’s largest food company, said
May 19 that food-price increases should be gradual and that
companies would try to absorb commodity expenses by reducing
costs in other areas.  Earlier this month, San Diego-based Jack in the Box Inc., a
fast-food chain with restaurants mainly in the western U.S.,
raised its prices 1.5 percent, saying it was being cautious
about increases because of the competitive environment. BJ’s
Wholesale Club, a discount grocery retailer based in
Westborough,  Massachusetts , said May 18 that consumers were
trading down to less-expensive brands.  The USDA, which bases its forecast on price gains that have
already occurred and projections of how increases will play out
over the rest of the year, tends to be conservative in its
estimates, according to Iowa State’s Hart.  New USDA Forecast  The department issued its latest  monthly projection  for
2011 food inflation today, leaving its estimate unchanged at 3
percent to 4 percent. Dairy products was the only category that
was revised, with prices now estimated to climb 5 percent to 6
percent, up from 4.5 percent to 5 percent.  The USDA last raised its forecast in February. Since then,
adverse weather has limited prospects for crop supplies more
than the government expected, and crude oil is up 42 percent
from a year earlier, putting more pressure on agricultural
prices, Hart said.  Food prices measured by the Bureau of Labor Statistics rose
0.3 percent in April, bringing this year’s gain to the highest
since a 3 percent increase in the first four months of 1990.  In the first four months of 2011, meat and fish prices rose
4.3 percent, according to the bureau. Consumers paid about
$2.722 for a pound of ground beef, a 14 percent increase, while
a fresh whole chicken cost $1.261 a pound, slightly lower than
$1.28 at the start of the year.  The price of a pound of field-grown tomatoes last month
reached $2.27, the highest since 2004 and up 43 percent from the
beginning of the year, the bureau said. Fresh fruit and
vegetables, which are more volatile because of weather, fell 1.3
percent in April. They have already risen 3.4 percent this year,
according to government data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
 Leslie Patton  in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  