-- 
Free of Qaddafi’s Grip, Young Libyans in Benghazi Find a Voice

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-05-25T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/free-of-qaddafi-s-grip-young-libyans-in-benghazi-find-a-voice.html
Atem Shembesh says she rarely read
newspapers before the Libyan rebellion began in February. Now,
the 17-year-old high school student writes for one that she
founded with two friends.  Berenice Post, an Arabic and English weekly, is one of more
than 50 publications that have sprung up in the rebel stronghold
of Benghazi since the uprising against  Muammar Qaddafi . Young
Libyans in this eastern city are taking advantage of newfound
freedoms to churn out publications, sketch anti-Qaddafi
caricatures and record revolutionary rap.  “I wasn’t interested in newspapers because they didn’t
present the truth,” Shembesh said. “For the first time, we
have freedom of speech and of the press. We have so much to say
and the media is the best way to do it.”  Rebel leaders, who are lobbying the international community
for recognition and funds, tout the changes as a sign of
commitment to an open Libya. European Union Foreign Policy Chief
 Catherine Ashton , visiting Benghazi on May 22, told reporters
she was “astonished” at how many new titles have hit
newsstands. Only last year, Reporters Without Borders ranked
 Libya  160th out of 178 countries in its press freedom index.  “Even while fighting for our lives, we have begun to put
the building blocks in place for a free society,” Mahmoud
Gebril, who heads the opposition’s executive body, wrote in The
New York Times on May 12. “The people of Benghazi, the base of
our struggle, are participating in traffic control and trash
collection, and creating newspapers and radio stations that
reflect the new spirit of tolerance and freedom.”  Youth Movement  In a country where the median age is 24 1/2, “the next
stage belongs to the youth,” said Abdelhafiz Ghoga, vice
president of the rebel’s National Transitional Council, in an
interview in Benghazi.  While Ghoga recently told journalists that Libya needs a
“responsible” media that “serves the goals of the
revolution,” some young writers are less restrained. “They
don’t call the press the fourth estate for nothing,” said Idris
Abidia, 24, a medical student and co-creator of Sawt, or Voice,
newspaper. “There has to be accountability.”  For now, the young journalists and artists have their
sights set on Qaddafi, whose forces continue to battle for
control of cities in western Libya.  Akram Alibruki, a 30-year-old partner in a clothes store
with a passion for caricatures, says that when he used to sketch
unflattering drawings of the Libyan leader, he’d do so only at
home and carefully shred his work afterwards. These days he
exhibits his cartoons at a media center in Benghazi where
visitors tread on a rug bearing the face of a young Qaddafi.  Artistic ‘Jihad’  Sitting under a wall plastered with caricatures, one
showing Qaddafi in a prison cell with an iron ball chained to
his leg, Alibruki calls his art “a jihad,” or struggle.  “I want to show the crimes that Qaddafi has committed,”
he said. “We’re making up for years of suppression. Now, I can
draw whatever I feel like.” His work was displayed at an
exhibition in  Egypt  and has been published in the local press.  At a Benghazi cultural center that has become home to
several newspapers, young Libyans in skinny jeans and t-shirts
tap on keyboards and huddle around desks to brainstorm.
At press conferences, they compete with seasoned foreign
correspondents to quiz rebel officials.  The new publications carry interviews with Qaddafi’s
opponents, frontline news, profiles of those who perished in the
fight, poems and diary-like pieces. Some publish definitions of
words like “democracy” and “constitution.”  One-Man State  “When the regime started to collapse in the east we heard
the people say: ‘We want constitution, civil society and
parliament,’” said Abidia. “But when you ask the youths what
these are, they fall silent.”  To give other Libyans a voice, Abidia and five friends who
created Sawt set up a mailbox outside the Benghazi courthouse,
the epicenter of the protests. They publish the letters left
there. “Sometimes people leave us donations too.” He and his
friend pay for Sawt’s 3,000 weekly copies themselves. They’re
looking for a sponsor.  “They are very enthusiastic youths who tried to tear down
a barrier,” said 47-year-old journalist Moftah Abou Zeid. “I
commend that, but they’re not specialists.” Abidia admits their
first issue, which appeared in March, was a “disaster,”
replete with grammatical mistakes.  Spreading the Word  The title has since expanded from eight to 12 pages.
“People are thirsty for freedom and for speaking up,” said
Abidia. They sent copies with an aid ship to the port of
Misrata, the main rebel-held city in western Libya.  Some are also putting their progressive principles into
practice. At Berenice Post, when Shembesh and the other founders
wanted to decide whether to keep on a group of intern reporters,
they put the question to a staff vote.  “We’re starting to practice democracy, or what we know
about democracy,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 