-- 
Freescale Semiconductor Rises After IPO Priced at Bottom of Reduced Range

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s ,   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-05-26T20:20:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/freescale-prices-ipo-shares-at-18-bottom-of-chipmaker-s-reduced-range.html
Freescale Semiconductor Holdings rose
on its first trading day after its shares were priced at the
bottom of a reduced range, luring buyers who bet sales of
automotive chips may help the company manage its debt burden.  “It was cheap enough that the demand came and some longer
term value investors said they’ll take it and wait it out,”
said  Cody Acree , a semiconductor analyst at Williams Financial
in  Dallas . “The underwriters did a decent job of making sure it
was placed in interested hands.”  Shares of the Austin, Texas-based company rose 33 cents, or
1.8 percent, to $18.33 at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange,
trading under the ticker FSL. Freescale raised $783 million in
its initial public offering, 25 percent less than it originally
sought.  Freescale and Spirit Airlines Inc., the U.S. discount
carrier that also held an initial public offering today, were
forced to reduce their offerings. That contrasts with Internet
companies LinkedIn Corp. and Yandex NV, which expanded the sizes
of their IPOs this month and surged on their debut trading days.  Freescale filed to sell shares to the public in February,
saying it would use the proceeds to help reduce debt, which is
about $7.5 billion. The company, the largest supplier of chips
to the U.S. automobile industry, borrowed billions as it was
taken private by Blackstone Group LP, TPG Capital,  Carlyle Group 
and Permira Advisers LLP in a $17.6 billion transaction in 2006.  Balance Sheet ‘Issue’  “We think all investors are ultimately going to do well,”
Chief Executive Officer Richard Beyer said in a telephone
interview today. “Would we have liked to have gone out a higher
price? Yes.”  The company needs annual sales of about $4 billion to
break even, Beyer said. Freescale could suffer a decline in
revenue from the current level of about $4.8 billion and still
be able to manage debt and invest in its business, he said.  Unlike some makers of personal computer and mobile phone
chips, Freescale is not experiencing a drop in demand for its
products, said Beyer. Automotive demand remains strong, he said.  Freescale sold 43.5 million shares at $18 each in the IPO,
according to a company statement. The company lowered the range
yesterday to $18 to $20 from $22 to $24. The IPO price reflects
a 50 percent discount to the average of $36 that investors paid
for the company, according to a regulatory filing.  “The balance sheet is a large issue,” said Acree at
Williams Financial. “There are too many other places to put
your money that don’t have this kind of issue.”  Among Worst Performers  Freescale has been one of the worst performers among
companies taken private during the buyout boom, with a net loss
of $1.05 billion in 2010. Other private equity-backed IPOs this
year have benefited their investors.  The initial share sale of Kinder Morgan Inc. raised $3.3
billion in February, valuing Carlyle Group’s stake at more than
twice what it paid. Blackstone, Carlyle, KKR & Co. and Thomas H.
Lee Partners LP similarly used the January IPO of Nielsen
Holdings NV, to trim their stakes and reap profits. That
offering raised $1.9 billion.  The global financial crisis hit Freescale less than two
years after its owners closed their deal. The firms brought in
Beyer, the former CEO of rival  Intersil Corp. (ISIL) , to close
factories and design facilities, cut jobs, and exit less
profitable businesses. Freescale also negotiated with
bondholders to trim borrowings by more than $2 billion.  Deutsche Bank AG, Citigroup Inc., Barclays Plc, Credit
Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. managed the offering.  Spirit Slumps  Spirit Airlines, the carrier that charges for carry-on
items, raised $187.2 million in its IPO yesterday, 42 percent
less than it originally planned. Spirit fell 45 cents, or 3.8
percent, to $11.55 at 4 p.m. on the Nasdaq Stock Market, trading
under the ticker SAVE.  LinkedIn shares more than doubled on its first day of
trading, and Yandex surged 55 percent in its market debut.  Spirit, based in Miramar,  Florida , sold 15.6 million shares
at $12 each, it said in a statement. The carrier initially
planned to raise as much as $320 million, according to a
regulatory filing, before shrinking its offering from 20 million
shares and lowering the range to $12 to $13 from $14 to $16.  The carrier, which flies mostly between Florida and the
Caribbean, had said it would use the funds for future plane
purchases and to pay off debt. It is going public as jet fuel
hovers near a three-year high, crimping industry profits and
forcing carriers to raise fares.  Gulfstream International Group
Inc. (GIGIQ)  was the last U.S. passenger airline to hold an IPO, selling
shares in 2007. It filed for bankruptcy last year.  Delphi Automotive  Private equity firm Indigo Partners LLC bought a majority
stake in Spirit in 2006, and also invests in similar low-fare
carriers outside the U.S., including  Mexico ’s Volaris. Oaktree
Capital Management LP is the second-biggest investor.  Citigroup and Morgan Stanley led the Spirit IPO.  In other IPO news, Delphi Automotive Plc, the former parts
unit of General Motors Co., registered for an initial public
offering of $100 million. That amount is a placeholder to
calculate filing fees, and the sale’s final size may vary, Troy,
Michigan-based Delphi said yesterday in a regulatory filing.  The IPO may raise more than $1 billion, a person with
knowledge of the plans said last week.  Delphi, once the largest U.S. auto-parts maker, exited
bankruptcy restructuring in October 2009 with four classes of
shares. Lenders including private equity firms Elliott
Management Corp. and Silver Point Capital LP bought most of the
original Delphi and still hold a controlling interest after
Delphi bought back stakes from General Motors and the Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corp. in March.  The offering’s proceeds will be used for general purposes,
retiring debt and  capital spending , Delphi said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan are managing the
deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net 
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  