-- 
Freescale IPO Seeks 47% Discount to Buyout Price After Cut

-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y ,   I a n   K i n g   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-05-25T17:25:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/freescale-seeks-ipo-at-a-47-discount-to-buyout-price-after-cutting-range.html
Freescale Semiconductor Holdings 
Ltd. is selling shares at a 47 percent discount to what private
equity owners paid after cutting the price range in its initial
public offering by 17 percent.  The chipmaker is offering 43.5 million shares for $18 to
$20 each after lowering the range from $22 to $24, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The current $19 midpoint, which values the
unprofitable company at about $4.6 billion, compares with an
average price of $36 that investors including  Blackstone Group
LP (BX) , Carlyle Group, Permira Advisers LLP and TPG Capital paid for
Freescale, according to a regulatory filing.  The private equity firms, which aren’t selling their
stakes, plan to raise as much as $870 million to pay down
Freescale’s $7.5 billion in debt accumulated in a 2006 leveraged
buyout. While Internet companies LinkedIn Corp. and Yandex NV
surged after their IPOs this month, Freescale joined Spirit
Airlines Inc. in reducing the size of its IPO today.  Freescale “could be one of those deals that in the cold
light of day should just get pulled,” said  Peter Sorrentino , a
portfolio manager at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati,
which oversees $14.8 billion. “There’s nothing worse than to
bring a deal and have it choke in the system, so they might be a
little better off moving this thing to the sidelines and waiting
for a while.”  Yandex, LinkedIn  At the original $23 midpoint, Austin, Texas-based Freescale
would have been valued at 1.2 times last year’s sales, less than
the average 1.9 times for the analog-chip industry, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the biggest
analog-chip maker, yesterday traded at a multiple of 2.8.  Rob Hatley, a spokesman at Freescale, declined to comment.  A resurgence in dot-com IPOs hasn’t given a boost to
Freescale, Spirit and Glencore International Plc. Yandex, the
owner of  Russia ’s most popular search engine, and LinkedIn, the
networking website aimed at professionals, raised their offering
price ranges ahead of their IPOs. Yandex surged 55 percent on
its first day of trading and LinkedIn more than doubled in its
debut.  Glencore, the commodities trader, has lost money for buyers
after completing a $10 billion IPO in London and  Hong Kong 
earlier this month. The shares traded at 522.2 pence as of 4:35
p.m. local time in  London  today, 1.5 percent below the IPO price
of 530 pence.  Zynga Inc., the biggest maker of games for Facebook Inc.,
may file for an IPO by the end of June to capitalize on
increased interest in startups, a person familiar with the plans
said yesterday.  $1 Billion Loss  Freescale, which will be listed on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker symbol FSL, has been one of the worst
performers among companies taken private during the buyout boom,
with a $1 billion net loss in 2010. Other private equity-backed
IPOs this year have benefited their investors.  The initial share sale of Kinder Morgan Inc. raised $2.9
billion in February, valuing  Carlyle Group ’s stake at more than
twice what it paid. Carlyle was among the investors that sold a
combined 13.5 percent of Kinder Morgan in the offering. The
offering was later expanded to $3.29 billion as underwriters
exercised an overallotment option to buy more shares.  Blackstone, Carlyle, KKR & Co. and Thomas H. Lee Partners
LP similarly used the January IPO of Nielsen Holdings NV to trim
their stakes and reap profits. That offering raised $1.9 billion
for the television ratings company and its owners, including an
overallotment sale.  Buyout Boom  Freescale was among the largest LBOs in 2006 and 2007, when
9 of the 10 biggest buyouts of all time were announced,
including Kinder Morgan.  “This a deal that I’m sure they regret having done,” said
 Steven Kaplan , a professor at the University of  Chicago  Booth
School of Business. “Still, at some point, people thought it
was going to be a complete zero. Going from a zero to whatever
it is today is a win, so give them some credit.”  The global financial crisis hit Freescale less than two
years after its owners closed their $16.2 billion deal. The
firms brought in Chief Executive Officer Rich Beyer, the former
CEO of rival  Intersil Corp. (ISIL) , to close factories and design
facilities, cut jobs, and get out of less profitable businesses.
As markets recovered, Freescale also reduced borrowings by more
than $2 billion after negotiating with bondholders.  ‘Sustainable Structure’  The IPO is the latest step toward “achieving a sustainable
 capital structure , but they’re not there yet,” said Jason Pompeii, an analyst with  Fitch Ratings  in Chicago. “They need
to outgrow the market, they need to capture market share and
they need the markets to remain robust. It’s not an easy task.”  Deutsche Bank AG, Citigroup Inc., Barclays Plc, Credit
Suisse Group AG and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are managing the
offering.  Freescale is trying to repeat the success of other buyout-
backed chipmakers that sold shares ahead of an industry rally.
 Avago Technologies Ltd. (AVGO) , whose owners include KKR and  Silver
Lake , has more than doubled since its IPO in August 2009.  NXP
Semiconductor NV (NXPI) , backed by KKR, Bain Capital LLC and Silver
Lake, has almost doubled since going public last August, when it
raised less than it originally planned.  The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index, which investors use
to track chip industry performance, gained 23 percent in the 12
months through yesterday. Makers of analog chips, which provide
basic functions in everything from washing machines to military
hardware, rose 54 percent in that period as a group, according
to Bloomberg data. The gains have leveled off in recent months.  Freescale “can’t expect to be bailed out by a  bull market 
in semiconductor stocks,” said  Francis Gaskins , president of
IPOdesktop.com in Marina del Rey,  California , in a research note
this week. “That window seems to have closed.”  Spirit  Spirit Airlines, the budget carrier owned by Indigo
Partners LLC and Oaktree Capital Management LLC, earlier today
cut the number of shares and price range in its IPO, reducing
the maximum sought by 37 percent to $202.8 million.  The company is selling 15.6 million shares for $12 to $13
each, according to a filing with the SEC. Miramar, Florida-based
Spirit had offered 20 million shares at $14 to $16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  