-- 
Freescale’s Owners Seek IPO at 36% Discount to Buyout Price

-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y ,   I a n   K i n g   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-05-25T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/freescale-s-owners-seek-ipo-at-36-discount-to-buyout-price.html
Freescale Semiconductor Holdings Ltd.
is selling shares at a 36 percent discount to what private-
equity owners paid as it attempts the biggest initial public
offering of a U.S. technology company since  Google Inc. (GOOG)   The chipmaker is offering 43.5 million shares for $22 to
$24 each, compared with an average price of $36 that investors
including  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  Carlyle Group , Permira Advisers
LLP and TPG Capital paid for Freescale, according to a filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The midpoint
of the range would value the unprofitable company at about $5.5
billion.  The private-equity firms, which aren’t selling their
stakes, plan to raise as much as $1.04 billion to pay down
Freescale’s $7.5 billion in debt accumulated in a 2006 leveraged
buyout. While Internet companies LinkedIn Corp. and Yandex NV
surged after their IPOs, investors may have less of an appetite
for Austin, Texas-based Freescale, the most indebted
semiconductor company globally.  “I don’t think you’re going to find investors who are
going to be willing to put their money up until they see the
economic benefit for this,” said  Peter Sorrentino , a portfolio
manager at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati, which
oversees $14.8 billion. “It’s a capital-intensive industry, and
a debt-heavy balance sheet is not your friend. You’re up against
companies that are spending a lot of money to continue to stay
competitive.”  At the $23 midpoint, Freescale would be valued at 1.2 times
last year’s sales, less than the average of 1.9 times for the
analog chip industry, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the biggest analog chipmaker, trades at
about 2.8 times sales.  $1 Billion Loss  Freescale, which will be listed on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker symbol FSL, has been one of the worst
performers among companies taken private during the buyout boom,
with a $1 billion net loss in 2010. Other private equity-backed
IPOs this year have benefited their investors.  The initial share sale of  Kinder Morgan  Inc. raised $2.9
billion in February, valuing Carlyle Group’s stake at more than
twice what it paid. Carlyle was among the investors that sold a
combined 13.5 percent of Kinder Morgan in the offering. The
offering was later expanded to $3.29 billion as underwriters
exercised an over-allotment option to buy more shares.  Blackstone, Carlyle, KKR & Co. and Thomas H. Lee Partners
LP similarly used the January IPO of Nielsen Holdings NV, to
trim their stakes and reap profits. That offering raised $1.9
billion for the television ratings company and its owners,
including an over-allotment sale.  If Freescale sells at the midpoint of its expected range,
the shares owned by the buyout firms would be valued 36 percent
below the average purchase price they and other investors paid.  Buyout Boom  Freescale was among the largest LBOs in 2006 and 2007, when
9 of the 10 biggest buyouts of all time were announced,
including Kinder Morgan.  “This a deal that I’m sure they regret having done,” said
 Steven Kaplan , a professor at the University of  Chicago  Booth
School of Business. “Still, at some point, people thought it
was going to be a complete zero. Going from a zero to whatever
it is today is a win, so give them some credit.”  The global financial crisis hit Freescale less than two
years after its owners closed their $16.2 billion deal. The
firms brought in Chief Executive Officer Rich Beyer, the former
CEO of rival  Intersil Corp. (ISIL) , to close factories and design
facilities, cut jobs, and get out of less profitable businesses.
As markets recovered, Freescale also reduced borrowings by more
than $2 billion after negotiating with bondholders.  ‘Sustainable Structure’  The IPO is the latest step toward “achieving a sustainable
 capital structure , but they’re not there yet,” said Jason Pompeii, an analyst with  Fitch Ratings  in Chicago. “They need
to outgrow the market, they need to capture market share and
they need the markets to remain robust. It’s not an easy task.”  Rob Hatley, a Freescale spokesman, declined to comment.
Deutsche Bank AG, Citigroup Inc., Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse
Group AG and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are managing the offering.  Freescale is trying to repeat the success of other buyout-
backed chipmakers that sold shares ahead of an industry rally.
 Avago Technologies Ltd. (AVGO) , whose owners include KKR and  Silver
Lake , has more than doubled since its IPO in August 2009.  NXP
Semiconductor NV (NXPI) , backed by KKR and Bain Capital LLC, has almost
doubled since going public last August, when it raised less than
it originally planned.  The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index, which investors use
to track chip industry performance, gained 23 percent in the
last 12 months. Makers of analog chips, which provide basic
functions in everything from washing machines to military
hardware, rose 54 percent in that period as a group, according
to Bloomberg data. The gains have leveled off in recent months.  Window ‘Closed’  Freescale “can’t expect to be bailed out by a  bull market 
in semiconductor stocks,” said Francis Gaskins, president of
IPOdesktop.com in Marina del Rey,  California , in a research note
this week. “That window seems to have closed.”  Demand for new semiconductor stocks has been limited this
year. Magnachip Semiconductor Corp., a Luxembourg-based maker of
chips used in phones, notebook computers and digital cameras,
has gained 2 percent since it went public in March. BCD
Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd., based in  Shanghai , is down 9
percent from its January debut.  A successful offering by Freescale may boost the rest of
the sector, according to Peter Astiz, co-head of the technology
practice at law firm  DLA Piper  in East Palo Alto, California.
While investors are more focused on snapping up Internet IPOs,
money can still be made in semiconductors, he said.  “As advanced as the technology is in semiconductors, it’s
almost like it’s old technology in the way people think about
it,” said Astiz, who represented Magnachip in its IPO. “People
tend to flock to the latest, greatest thing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  