-- 
Lagarde Declares Candidacy for IMF Head

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-05-25T11:57:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/french-finance-minister-lagarde-will-stand-to-replace-strauss-kahn-at-imf.html
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  declared her candidacy to head the  International
Monetary Fund , saying she should be judged on the basis of
experience rather than nationality.  “Being a European should not be a plus and it shouldn’t be
a minus,” she said at a press conference in Paris today. “I am
not arguing for my candidacy because I am a European.”  The IMF executive directors representing Brazil,  Russia ,
India, China and South Africa united yesterday to protest
publicly the presumption that the fund’s next chief once again
be a European. The IMF has been led by Europeans since it was
set up after World War II.  Lagarde, who would succeed countryman Dominique Strauss- Kahn and become the first woman to lead the Washington-based
lender since its founding in 1945, now has the backing of
Europe’s main economies and, according to her government, China.
 Brazil  will also privately support her rather than backing her
main rival, Mexican central bank governor Agustin Carstens, a
Brazilian government official said.  “It’s looking like it’s almost a done deal for Lagarde,”
Desmond Lachman, a former deputy director at the IMF and now a
resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute in
 Washington , said by telephone. “The emerging markets can’t get
their act together and back one candidate.”  Assault Charge  Lagarde, 55, has an 88 percent chance of becoming the IMF’s
eleventh managing director and its fifth from  France , according
to Dublin-based odds-maker  Intrade.com . The 187-member IMF aims
to pick a successor to Strauss-Kahn by the end of June, little
more than a month after he resigned in the wake of being charged
with sexual assault on a New York hotel maid.  A lawyer who practiced in the U.S. before entering French
government in 2005, Lagarde would bring frontline experience of
the sovereign-debt crisis at a time when  Greece  is struggling to
persuade investors it can avert default.  The U.S., which has the biggest voting share in the fund
with a 16.8 percent stake, has yet to publicly tip its hand as
to whom it will back. President Barack Obama and fellow Group of
Eight leaders plan to convene tomorrow in the French resort of
Deauville.  U.S. Backing  “No doubt Mr. Obama will come under pressure in Deauville
about all of this,”  Edwin Truman , a former official at both the
U.S. Treasury Department and the  Federal Reserve  who is now a
senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in Washington, said by telephone.  Rather than jumping on the European bandwagon, the U.S.
will probably reserve its backing for Lagarde until it becomes
clear she has the broad support of IMF membership, Truman said.  While the fund’s executive board has pledged to act
transparently and make an appointment based on merit, European
leaders have moved swiftly to support Lagarde. U.K. Chancellor
of the Exchequer George Osborne praised her leadership skills
during France’s current presidency of the Group of 20, while
Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi called her
“excellent.”  Jose Barroso , the European Commission president,
said he “fully endorsed” Lagarde’s candidacy in an e-mailed
statement today.  China  is also “favorable” on the prospect of Lagarde
leading the IMF, French government spokesman  Francois Baroin 
said yesterday. Chinese officials haven’t publicly commented on
specific candidates.  Limited Term  In exchange for its private support for the European
contender, Brazil will push for Lagarde to run the fund only
until the end of next year, when Strauss-Kahn’s term would have
expired, said the Brazilian official, who requested anonymity
because he isn’t authorized to speak publicly about the issue.  Lagarde said today that if named to the job, she’ll stay in
it for a full five years, unlike Strauss-Kahn or his predecessor
Rodrigo de Rato. “To me, it’s essential that the whole mandate
be fulfilled,” she said. “If I’m elected, I promise to
complete the mandate.”  Emerging markets have shown little evidence of uniting
behind a candidate, with  Mexico , Thailand, Russia and  South
Africa  supporting policy makers from their own parts of the
world. Among those being discussed publicly are Finance Minister
Tharman Shanmugaratnam of  Singapore  and Grigori Marchenko,
Kazakhstan’s central bank chief.  “In a large number of countries there are extremely good
people,” Charles Wyplosz, director of the International Center
for Money and Banking Studies in Geneva, said in an interview
with Tom Keene on “Bloomberg Surveillance,” a radio program.
“The field should be open and I personally am very upset that
the Europeans are trying to close it down and prevent any
serious competition.”  Arkady Dvorkovich, Russian President Dmitry Medvedev’s
economic aide, said yesterday that Brazil, Russia, India and
China -- the so-called BRIC economies -- are still consulting on
finding a candidate.  Not Optimistic  “I’m not totally pessimistic but I’m not at all
optimistic” about the prospects for an emerging-market
representative to head the organization, Arvind Virmani, who
represents  India  and three other countries on the IMF board,
said in an interview yesterday in Washington. “There is no
indication which suggests that the result will be any different
this time.”  The IMF provided a record $91.7 billion in emergency loans
last year and accounts for one-third of the euro-region’s
bailout packages. Its next chief will be at the center of
debates on determining an escape route for the euro out of the
debt crisis, which still threatens to push Greece, Ireland and
Portugal into default and raised concern about the currency’s
longevity.  The new leader will also have to restore the fund’s image
after the Strauss-Kahn scandal and ensure its decision-making
better reflects the growing power of emerging markets such as
China, now the world’s No. 2 economy.  First Borrower  France, the first to borrow from the IMF, has supplied
three of its past five managing directors. A European has filled
the fund’s top job since its creation as part of an agreement
under which the U.S. picks the World Bank president.  The practice is now outdated, and focusing too much on the
euro crisis risks depriving the organization of a leader who can
turn it into one that mirrors a world economy increasingly led
by developing countries, said Ousmene Mandeng, head of public-
sector investment at Ashmore Group Plc in  London .  “We need to look beyond the immediate European problems
and appoint a new managing director based on broader criteria
and who can best address the tasks the IMF must respond to,”
said Mandeng, a former IMF economist. “Ideally that would mean
an emerging market candidate.”  Rejected Candidate  Europe ’s nominees for the job have not always had smooth
sailing. In 2000,  Germany ’s deputy finance minister, Caio Koch- Weser, withdrew his candidacy after he failed to secure enough
support from the lender’s shareholders, including the U.S.,
which questioned his political heft and lack of broad support
outside of Europe. Horst Koehler, who went on to become
president of Germany, won the job instead.  Carstens, who was an executive director at the IMF at the
time representing Mexico and other Latin American nations, was
“very involved” in the behind-the-scenes negotiations on Koch-
Weser’s candidacy, said Truman, who was then at the Treasury.  The Mexican central banker’s candidacy might face
difficulties with the Europeans as a result, Truman added.  Carstens is struggling for support even from Latin
Americans, with Peruvian central bank President Julio Velarde
saying he’s made no decision on the Mexican’s bid even as
Velarde favored someone from the region.  Angel Gurria ,
secretary-general of the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development and a former Mexican Finance minister, backs
Lagarde, Handelsblatt reported.  Carstens’s Campaign  In an interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday,
Carstens said it was too early to say which countries will back
his nomination. Carstens served as a deputy managing director of
the IMF from 2003 to 2006.  “I have heard expressions of sympathy, but most countries
in a responsible way are waiting to see who all the candidates
are,” Carstens, 52, said from Mexico City in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness” with Margaret Brennan.  Lagarde’s candidacy could still come unstuck. She faces
legal challenges of her own regarding her resolution of a two-
decade old dispute involving a supporter of President Nicolas Sarkozy.  France’s Cour de Justice de la Republique, which oversees
ministers’ actions in office, has until June 10 to decide
whether to investigate if Lagarde abused her powers in agreeing
in 2007 to send the case to arbitration. It resulted in a 385
million-euro ($550 million) award to businessman Bernard Tapie.  Lagarde said again today that the allegations are without
foundation and she won’t withdraw her candidacy if the court
decides it needs more time to investigate after June 10.  “If the inquiry needs to go further, I’ll maintain my
candidacy,” she said. “I’ve always worked in the interest of
the state and in the absolute respect of the law.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 