-- 
French Open Defends Change of Balls as Top-Seeded Nadal Raises Concerns

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-25T12:52:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/french-open-defends-change-of-balls-as-top-seeded-nadal-raises-concerns.html
French Open  organizers have backed
the tennis balls used at this year’s clay-court Grand Slam amid
complaints by players.  Second-ranked Novak Djokovic said the balls made by Lyon,
France-based  Babolat  for the Paris tournament are harder to
handle because they bounce higher and move faster through the
air than those supplied last year by Dunlop.  Dunlop  balls were used in this year’s main warm-up clay
court tournaments in Rome, Madrid and Barcelona. Top-ranked
 Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  said changing balls makes it hard for
players’ bodies to adapt.  “We are convinced that we have the exact same ball as last
year,” French Open tournament director Gilbert Ysern told a
small group of reporters today. “We clearly asked Babolat to
produce the exact same ball as the one we had last year.”  Ysern said the new balls may be playing differently because
of dry weather in  France .  Nadal said that, while they suit his style of play, he
isn’t used to them. He overcame  John Isner  of the U.S. yesterday
in his first five-set match at  Roland Garros , the French Open
venue.  “I only practiced four or five days, six days with this
ball after one month and a half or one month playing with
another ball,” Nadal said. “The feeling is something very
important in tennis. From the outside it is sometimes difficult
to see. But from inside for the players, it is something
dangerous for the shoulders, for everything.”  Warm-Up Events  Ysern said he would like to see the same type of ball being
used in the warm-up clay court events.  “Unfortunately, it doesn’t depend on us,” Ysern said.
“Every tournament decides what balls they want to play with.
Unfortunately, we cannot decide that  Rome  or Madrid, or any
other tournament play with the same balls as we do.”  Dunlop said in a press release yesterday that it is
“impossible for another manufacturer to replicate the finished
product.”  The  Paris tournament  made the switch to a new ball partly
because it had more faith in Babolat promoting its trade mark,
Ysern said.  “We were a little bit disappointed by our previous partner
in promoting our trademark, Roland Garros, all over the world,”
he said. “Babolat told us they had the ability to do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at the London sports desk 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 