-- 
GE Capital Real Estate, Aberdeen Start $400 Million Tokyo Property Fund

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 
2011-05-25T02:44:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/ge-capital-aberdeen-form-400-million-japan-property-venture.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s real estate
arm, with $73 billion of property investments, and  Aberdeen
Asset Management Plc (ADN)  said they have set up a $400 million fund
that will invest in residential buildings in Tokyo.  The joint venture, named Tokyo Residential JV, will target
studio and one-bedroom apartments in Japan’s capital over the
next two years, GE Capital Real Estate and Aberdeen Asset said
in an e-mailed statement. The companies don’t expect any impact
from Japan’s earthquake in March on the fund, according to the
statement.  The fund is starting in the wake of the magnitude-9
earthquake on March 11, signaling confidence among investors
that are seeking risk-adjusted returns. The fund will focus on
properties in  Tokyo  where the population continues to grow,
bucking the trend of an overall decline, the companies said.  “This is another clear sign of our continuing confidence
in the Japan market,” said Mark Norbom, the president and chief
executive officer of GE Japan, in the statement.  In 2008, GE Capital Real Estate, which has been investing
in real estate in Japan since 1998, started a global investment
management business to manage clients’ money instead of using
its own cash to invest in properties, the statement said.  Aberdeen Asset, with $287 billion in assets, began
investing in Asian properties in 2007 and has $36 billion
invested in real estate, according to the company.  Tokyo and its eight surrounding prefectures account for 35
percent of  Japan ’s population and 39 percent of its gross
domestic product, according to Cabinet Office figures from 2007,
the most recent data available on prefectures and regions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  