-- 
GE Says New Turbine to Help Bring Renewables Into Power Grid

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-05-25T20:09:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/ge-introduces-power-plant-with-61-percent-efficiency.html
General Electric Co. (GE) , whose equipment
generates more than a quarter of the world’s electricity,
introduced a gas-based turbine that smooths power production
when weather affects wind and solar-based sources.  The three-year investment in the technology exceeds $500
million, the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company said today in
a statement. Executives discussed the project in Paris, ahead of
 Europe ’s goal to have 20 percent of its electricity come from
renewables by 2020.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said last week that
sales of energy-efficient equipment will accelerate in 2011’s
second half, helping drive profit growth into 2012. The
turbine’s debut follows about $11 billion in energy purchases
since October including Dresser Inc., a maker of oil-field gear,
and the well-support division of John Wood Group Plc.  “We’ve really been building out our gas solutions with
Dresser and Wood Group,” Vice Chairman John Krenicki said in a
telephone interview. “Now, having the most efficient power
plant -- we’re in great shape going into a stronger market.”  The so-called combined-cycle turbine technology operates at
a record fuel-efficiency rate of 61 percent, according to GE. It
is designed to cope with fluctuations in electricity generated
from wind and solar sources, helping utilities integrate more
renewable sources into the  power grid , GE said.  Heating Up  GE, also the world’s biggest jet-engine maker, used
technology from the aviation unit that includes nickel-based and
other so-called superalloys, allowing the turbines to heat up
and power down faster.  Current GE offerings can power up at 24 megawatts a minute,
while the new FlexEfficiency model ramps up at 51 megawatts a
minute, said Krenicki, who oversees the company’s energy and
infrastructure segment.  GE expects the first  FlexEfficiency  generation set to be
shipped in 2014, executives including Steve Bolze, CEO of GE
Water & Power, said at a press conference in Paris. While GE
didn’t name customers, it said several are lined up for the
product and expects announcements this year.  The power plant, air cooled like a jet-engine, is the first
in a suite of products the company plans to introduce using the
technology, GE said.  GE rose 12 cents to $19.22 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 5.1 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  