-- 
GE Joins Suzlon, Acciona in Betting on Slow-Wind Turbines to Boost Sales

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-05-25T11:57:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/ge-joins-suzlon-acciona-in-betting-on-slow-wind-turbines-to-boost-sales.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Acciona SA (ANA) , and
 Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  this week began selling  wind turbines  that
generate power in more gentle breezes, aiming the product at
largely undeveloped markets such as the U.S. southeast.  Manufacturers have been making towers taller, blades longer
and lighter, and turbines more reliable since demand for wind
energy in the U.S. dropped about 50 percent last year to 4,900
megawatts. The slump prompted Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE,
which has the largest share of the U.S. market, to improve its
design and attract customers in new markets.  “Since the financial crisis we’ve doubled research and
development to get past a challenging market,” Vic Abate, head
of GE’s renewable energy unit, said in an interview yesterday at
the American  Wind Energy  Conference in Anaheim,  California .
“Projects that couldn’t work economically before now can.”  The push to improve turbine output and reduce the cost of
energy may also help U.S. manufacturers compete against lower-
priced wind products from new entrants in  China , said Amy Grace,
a New York-based analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “It’s a shift from turbine prices, which have been falling
with increased competition, to the cost of energy over its
lifetime,” Grace said in an interview. “Improving the
efficiency by 1 percent can yield more profit over the life of a
turbine more than offering a $100,000 discount on the price.”  Suzlon,  India ’s biggest wind-turbine maker, has lost 8.2
percent in the stock market this year. In comparison Alcobendas,
Spain-based Acciona and General Electric, whose products and
services are more diversified, have gained 37 percent and 4.4
percent, respectively.  More Power  GE expects to sell 60 to 100 of the new 1.6-megawatt
turbines this year, which have a 47 percent longer sweep that
generates up to 19 percent more power annually, Abate said. GE’s
turbines on average have a 98 percent availability, meaning that
when the wind blows, they are almost always producing power.  Acciona and Suzlon have also improved their turbines to
lower lifetime costs and reach new areas in the U.S. market. To
win customers for its newest turbines, Suzlon yesterday said it
would finance installation of two of them in the Texas panhandle
this August.  “These turbines are significantly better than what we were
offering in the past,” said John O’Halloran, Suzlon’s
technology president, said in an interview. “Areas with strong
winds have become saturated, and even medium wind locations are
becoming harder to find and develop.”  Class One  The best wind resources, rated “class one” by the
 International Electrotechnical Commission , have average annual
speeds of 10 meters (33 feet) per second at the height of a
typical tower. These areas include coastlines and parts of the
U.S. plains states. The easiest sites for building wind farms,
with flat terrain and proximity to high-voltage wires, have been
built, leaving lesser resources for new development.  The slower-wind class two and class three regions, which
make up most of the rest of the U.S. and  Europe , can be
profitable for developers because of the recent technology
improvements.  “We designed a distinct turbine for class 2 and we’ve seen
a huge interest in the past 30 days,” said Scott Baron, global
product line director at Acciona. “It will open up new markets
as the more mature markets see the benefits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  