-- 
‘War of Attrition’ Against Overhaul: Geithner

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-05-25T19:37:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/geithner-sees-war-of-attrition-against-overhaul.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said some lawmakers and bankers are waging a “war of
attrition” against efforts to strengthen regulation of the
financial system.  “You’re seeing some people run a war of attrition against
the reform act,” Geithner said at an event today in Washington,
without identifying the people. “They’re trying to starve the
agencies of funding so they can’t enforce protections for
investors.”  Geithner also said opponents of the Obama administration
are trying to block presidential appointments to regulatory
agencies “as a way to get leverage over the outcome, and
they’re trying to slow down so that they can weaken over time
the thrust” of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law. “We’re
not going to let that happen.”  Republican lawmakers are opposing the nomination of  Peter Diamond  to the Federal Reserve Board. The White House
renominated Diamond, a Nobel Prize winner, in January, marking a
third try at confirmation after the Senate adjourned in December
without approving him. Diamond’s initial candidacy was returned
to the White House in August under a procedural objection.  On negotiations to raise the $14.3 trillion federal debt
ceiling, Geithner said Congress will ultimately “do the right
thing” and raise the limit. Some lawmakers are using the talks
for political posturing, he said.  ‘All Theater’  “Right now this is all theater,” Geithner said. “I think
the vast bulk of Congress understands it completely. I think
there are some people pretending not to understand, who think
there is leverage for them in threatening default. I don’t
understand that negotiating position.” Geithner has taken
measures to stay below the debt limit until Aug. 2.  The debate over the debt limit has prompted Geithner to
delay efforts on an overhaul of the U.S. tax code by broadening
the tax base and lowering rates. The Treasury Department has
been working on a report about corporate taxes.  “We don’t want to really do anything right now that would
carry one of the following risks. We don’t want to do anything
that’s going to make those budget discussions harder, because
they’re hard enough,” Geithner said. “And we don’t want to do
something now that would reduce the prospect that we’d get
people to come together on a sensible corporate  tax reform . So I
think that once we get through the fiscal thing, we’ll have a
chance to move this forward.”  Warren Appointment  This month, 44 Senate Republicans said they wouldn’t
confirm a director for the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
without changes to its structure and funding. President  Barack Obama  appointed  Elizabeth Warren , a Harvard University law
professor, as an adviser to set up the bureau after then-Senate
Banking Committee Chairman Christopher Dodd, a Connecticut
Democrat, said Republican opposition would prevent her from
winning Senate confirmation.  “We want to put up people who can be confirmed,” Geithner
said. “We want to put up talented people who can do those jobs.
Finding the intersection between those two things has become
difficult because people are less willing to come and Congress
is proving itself unwilling to confirm Nobel Prize-winning
economists.”  ‘Dark Forces’  Asked by a moderator at a breakfast held by Politico to
identify the “mysterious forces” working against the
administration, Geithner said, smiling, “dark forces, I would
say.”  On the search for a successor to  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  to
lead the  International Monetary Fund , Geithner said both French
Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  and Mexican central bank
Governor Agustin Carstens are “very talented” candidates.  He said the U.S., the largest IMF shareholder, will play a
“significant” role in the choice to replace Strauss-Kahn, a
former French finance minister who resigned after his arrest on
charges of attempted rape and sexual assault.  Lagarde “is an exceptionally capable person, an excellent
mix of financial economic knowledge, talent and the kind of
political skill you need to navigate this context,” Geithner
said. Carstens “has that as well.”  Lagarde today declared her candidacy, saying she should be
judged on the basis of experience rather than nationality. A
European has held the IMF managing directorship since its
founding at the end of World War II, while an American has
always headed the  World Bank .  The IMF executive directors representing  Brazil ,  Russia ,
 India ,  China  and  South Africa  united yesterday to protest
publicly the presumption that the fund’s next chief once again
be a European.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  