-- 
Germany Says No Decision to Scrap Tax on Nuclear Fuel

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-05-25T17:10:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/german-government-says-no-decision-on-nuclear-fuel-tax.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government
hasn’t made a decision to scrap a five-month-old nuclear-fuel
tax, though all financial measures connected to Germany’s exit
from atomic energy are up for discussion, a spokesman said.  Government spokesman Steffen Seibert declined to confirm a
report in the  Financial Times Deutschland  that Merkel’s
coalition may drop the 2.3 billion-euro ($3.2 billion) annual
levy to allow energy companies to invest more in renewable
sources of power. Horst Seehofer, the leader of Merkel’s
Christian Social Union allies, told the  Sueddeutsche Zeitung 
newspaper that he won’t support the levy.  “There is no such decision,” Seibert told reporters today
in Berlin. “It’s very clear that when the government puts
forward its concept to accelerate” an ending of nuclear power
production, “it will address individual questions, as well as
financial questions.”  Merkel ordered  Germany ’s seven oldest reactors in March to
be idled during a three-month review and said she plans to
accelerate the switch to renewable energy from nuclear following
the Fukushima disaster in  Japan . The reversal of her
government’s planned extension of the operating lives of German
nuclear plants last year coincided with a resurgence in support
for the opposition Green party.  The chancellor will meet with coalition leaders on May 29
to discuss how to move forward with the energy plan, aiming to
meet a June 6 deadline to get the overhaul through Cabinet.  ‘Off the Table’  Seehofer, who is also the Bavarian premier, said the tax is
“off the table,” Sueddeutsche reported. He said the government
can’t expect energy companies to pay the tax at the same time it
scales back licenses and invests in clean energy.  Seibert deflected suggestions that eliminating the tax
might be seen as making a deal with utilities. He said Merkel
doesn’t plan to meet company executives before June 6, although
there are “political contacts” with them.  The nuclear-fuel tax -- levied on EON AG,  RWE AG (RWE) ,  EnBW
Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK)  and Vattenfall AB -- was a
component of the government’s energy package last year that
extended the lives of nuclear plants by an average of 12 years.
It was designed to help pay for the clean-up of a nuclear-waste
storage site and narrow the  budget deficit . The utilities also
agreed to make payments to a renewable-energy development fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  