-- 
Consumer Confidence to Fall Third Month in June on Energy Price Concerns

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-05-25T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/german-consumer-confidence-to-fall-third-month-in-june-on-prices-crisis.html
German  consumer confidence  will drop
for a third month in June with concern that Greece may need to
default and surging energy prices clouding growth prospects.  The GfK Nuremberg-based market research company said today that
its consumer sentiment index, based on a survey of about 2,000
people, will fall to 5.5 next month from 5.7 in May. Economists
predicted a decline to 5.6, according to the median of 25
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Germany ’s economy,  Europe ’s largest, may struggle to gather
strength after expanding at the fastest pace in almost a year in
the first quarter as euro-region governments toughen spending
cuts and raise taxes to lower budget gaps, while increasing
energy costs squeeze household incomes. German investor
confidence dropped in May and services growth weakened.  “The worsening of the debt crisis in  Greece  and continuing
high energy prices are damping the optimism that German
consumers have exhibited up to now,”  GfK  said in a statement.
“As a result, the still very positive general conditions in
Germany, such as falling unemployment and the strong economic
upswing, are currently being somewhat overshadowed.”  GfK’s measure of households’ economic expectations declined
to 46.1 in May from 47.3 in April. A gauge of income
expectations fell to 25.9 from 35, while an index of consumers’
willingness to spend slipped to 31.5 from 34.2.  ‘Financial Effects’  The euro region’s worsening debt crisis and European Union-
led bailouts of Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  mean “that Germany
will have to provide large sums of money,” GfK said. “Many
consumers evidently fear that they could suffer the knock-on
financial effects.”  While Germany’s economy gathered strength in the first
quarter, expanding 1.5 percent,  consumer spending  rose 0.4
percent from the previous three months, when it advanced 0.6
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said
yesterday. Households’ disposable income increased 0.7 percent,
down from a 0.9 percent gain in the fourth quarter, it said.  Households may remain reluctant to boost spending with
rising commodity costs pushing up prices. Germany’s harmonized
inflation rate probably held at 2.7 percent in May, according to
a Bloomberg survey. That’s the highest since September 2008. The
statistics office will release the report on May 27.  “One in three Germans is worried about  price stability  at
present, compared with just under one in four a year ago,” GfK
said. “Consumers very quickly have the impression that
everything is becoming more expensive. Despite these risks, the
German economy is feeling the benefits of a strong tailwind.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  