-- 
German Shares Increase for Second Straight Day; Commerzbank, EON Advance

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-05-25T16:05:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/german-shares-little-changed-lufthansa-gains-munich-re-slides.html
German stocks advanced for a second
straight day as banks and utilities led gains in the benchmark
 DAX Index. (DAX)   Commerzbank AG (CBK)  rallied 6.1 percent as all German lenders
were said to be likely to pass the second round of European
Union stress tests. EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE)  climbed more than 1.5
percent after a report that the government may scrap a tax on
nuclear reactors.  The benchmark DAX Index gained 0.3 percent to 7,170.94 at
the 5:30 p.m. in  Frankfurt , recovering from earlier losses of as
much as 1.1 percent. The broader HDAX Index rose 0.2 percent.  “There are negatives in the market as focus on the euro
crisis grows, GDP growth weakens and the Chinese worry about
inflation, yet we fail to see why stocks should get knocked
down,” Copenhagen-based Nordea Private Banking equity
specialists Jesper Bamberger and Mikkel Petersen wrote in a note
to clients.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered its forecasts for  China ’s
growth yesterday as Premier Wen Jiabao’s campaign to rein in
inflation restrains the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  told French newspaper Les Echos that Greek debt
maturities could be extended on a voluntary basis, a process he
referred to as “reprofiling.” Meanwhile, Luxembourg’s Jean- Claude Juncker, who heads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, said an assessment on new measures for Greece may
come as soon as next week.  U.S. Economy  A report today showed U.S. orders for durable goods fell
more than forecast in April, reflecting lower demand for
aircraft and disruptions in supplies of auto parts stemming from
the earthquake in  Japan . Bookings for goods meant to last at
least three years fell 3.6 percent, the most since October, U.S.
Commerce Department data showed.  Commerzbank,  Germany ’s second-biggest bank, gained 6.1
percent to 3.21 euros, the largest increase in a year. All 13
German lenders tested in the second round of EU stress tests are
likely to pass after boosting and converting capital and
shifting risky assets into bad banks, three people familiar with
the process said.  The lenders have passed the examinations based on
preliminary results from data handed in by the individual
companies to regulators, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  Commerzbank was also upgraded to “outperform” at
Macquarie Group Ltd.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the country’s biggest
lender, climbed 1.6 percent to 41.12 euros.  Utilities Climb  EON, Germany’s biggest utility, rose 2.3 percent to 20.12
euros and RWE, the second-largest, gained 1.9 percent to 41.49
euros as the Financial Times Deutschland reported that Germany
may scrap a tax on nuclear reactors. The government hasn’t made
any decisions about scrapping the tax and will discuss finance
issues once the acceleration of the country’s exit from atomic
energy is in place, spokesman Steffen Seibert said.  Lufthansa AG,  Europe ’s second-largest airline, rose 1.1
percent to 14.97 euros. Airports in northern Germany reopened as
volcanic dust from Iceland dissipated.  Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD)  retreated 3.5 percent to 3.28 euros
after Munich prosecutors raided homes and offices of a suspect
and witnesses in a probe over possible manipulation of
subscriber numbers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  