-- 
Jared Loughner Found Incompetent to Stand Trial for Arizona Shooting Spree

-- B y   A . J .   F l i c k   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-05-26T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/giffords-shooting-suspect-loughner-taken-out-of-courtroom-after-outburst.html
Jared Lee Loughner isn’t competent to
stand trial on charges that he killed six people and tried to
assassinate a member of Congress in a Jan. 8 shooting spree in
Tucson,  Arizona , a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Larry Burns issued his decision at a
hearing yesterday in federal court in Tucson. Loughner was
examined by a Bureau of Prisons psychologist as well as by an
independent, court-appointed expert, both of whom concluded he
is incompetent and has schizophrenia. Prosecutors and defense
lawyers didn’t question the doctors who conducted the two
examinations.  Burns ordered that Loughner remain in U.S. custody for
treatment for four months or until doctors determine he is
mentally competent to help in his defense. The judge scheduled a
hearing for Sept. 21.  Prosecutors in March asked Burns to order an examination of
whether Loughner was competent to go on trial because video
clips he posted online suggested that he might have “mental
issues.” In one video clip, a hooded and masked person,
believed to be the suspect, is wearing garbage bags on his lower
body and burning an American flag.  U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , an Arizona
Democrat, was among 13 wounded in the shooting rampage outside a
supermarket where she was holding a community meeting.
Bystanders wrestled the suspect to the ground. Giffords survived
a gunshot wound through her head. U.S. District Judge John Roll
was among those killed.  Loughner, 22, has pleaded not guilty to murder and
attempted murder charges in federal court.  Removed From Courtroom  Loughner was removed from the courtroom yesterday by
marshals after an outburst at the start of the hearing. The
judge said he could return to the courtroom if he was calm; he
chose to watch the proceedings on closed-circuit television.  Burns said the legal standard for competency is whether the
defendant is rational enough understand the proceedings and is
able to assist defense attorneys. Both experts agreed Loughner
is “not presently competent,” the judge said.  Burns summarized the findings of the two doctors who
examined Loughner and said that the written reports won’t be
made public because they contain confidential health
information. He said both experts came to the same conclusion
that Loughner has schizophrenia, a mental disorder that makes it
hard to distinguish reality, think logically and behave normally
in social settings.  Burns said that according to the evaluations, mental
illness may impair Loughner’s ability to understand what he is
facing even while the schizophrenia in itself doesn’t make him
incompetent to stand trial.  About  one in 100 Americans  have schizophrenia, according to
the  National Institutes of Health .  Loughner’s Mental Health  Burn said one of the two experts concluded Loughner’s
mental health had been in decline for the past “two or three
years.” That report said Loughner “doesn’t grasp the gravity”
of the case against him and is “fixated on inconsequential and
unrelated issues.”  Dennis Burke, the U.S. Attorney for Arizona, said
prosecutors are “confident” that Loughner will be restored to
competency and that the case against him can eventually proceed.  Prosecutors haven’t said yet whether they intend to seek
the death penalty.  Defense attorneys left immediately after the hearing and
weren’t available for comment.  Attorney Mike Piccarreta, representing Roll’s family
members, said they had expected the incompetency finding and
weren’t surprised.  Other victims and their representatives who attended
yesterday’s hearing declined to comment.  ‘Creepy Stares’  Pima Community College on May 19 released e-mails by
college administrators and campus police that detail Loughner’s
behavior in classrooms last year. The e-mails describe “creepy
stares” and instances where Loughner challenged teachers,
saying that he has a right to earn an “A” “regardless of what
answers he gives because of free speech.”  Loughner told one counselor who questioned how he was
acting in a math class that “my instructor said he called a
number 6 and I said I call it 18.” He also asked the instructor
“how can you deny math instead of accept it,” according to the
e-mail the counselor sent to campus administrators.  “He has extreme views and frequently meanders from the
point,” according to the counselor’s report. “He seems to have
difficulty understanding how his actions impact others, yet very
attuned to his unique ideology that is not always homogenous.”  Loughner was expelled from the college in September.  The case is U.S. v. Loughner, 11-00187, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Tucson).  To contact the reporters on this story:
A.J. Flick in Tucson, Arizona, at  ajflick@hotmail.com ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  