-- 
Global Peace Dividend Could Reach $8 Trillion a Year, Study Says

-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-05-25T04:03:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/global-peace-dividend-could-reach-8-trillion-a-year-study-says.html
Reducing prison populations,
improving relations with neighboring countries and enhancing the
rule of law for local businesses could save countries around the
world as much as $8 trillion a year, according to an annual
survey of the economics of peace.  Improvements in “peacefulness” -- a measure that includes
levels of domestic and international conflict, safety and
security -- could create a “dynamic peace dividend” by freeing
money now spent on prisons, arms and police, or lost to
corruption and poor regulation, according to the Global Peace
Index released today. That amounts to as much as $1.8 trillion
in the U.S. alone, the study found.  “We have really discovered the eight structures of peace
that governments, politicians and policy makers can focus on to
become more peaceful and reap the economic benefit,” Clyde McConaghy, board director for the  Institute for Economics &
Peace  in Sydney, which compiles the annual survey.  The most peaceful country in the world in 2011 was Iceland,
which had slipped to fourth place in 2009, after the banking
system collapsed and the country was beset by political strife,
and rose to second place last year.  New Zealand , which was first
last year, fell to second place in 2011 as its prison population
grew and the country hired more police officers, a sign of
rising crime.  The most important factor for increasing peacefulness and
reaping a peace dividend is a well-functioning government,
McConaghy said in an interview from  Washington . “It doesn’t
particularly matter if it’s democratic or not,” he said.  Key Indicators  The other key indicators are a sound business environment
with reasonable regulation and judicial control; low levels of
corruption; high levels of education, especially a well-
functioning high-school system; good relationships with
neighboring countries; an equitable distribution of resources;
an acceptance of the rights of others; and a respect for private
property.  “There are now specific instructions for a policy that a
political leadership can put in place over months and years for
a country to be more peaceful,” McConaghy said. “It’s not some
airy-fairy thing; it’s attainable in a non-violent, pro-economic
growth way.”  He said the Global Peace Index’s authors have been
contacted by government delegations from Malaysia, Singapore and
 Canada , all seeking to improve their country’s ratings.  82 of 153  The  United States  ranks 82 for 2011, up from 96th place
four years ago, McConaghy said. High rates of incarceration and
violent crime are preventing the U.S. from reaping its potential
peacefulness dividend in economic activity, he said.  McConaghy said that by “reducing incarceration rates” and
“redeploying policing and judicial system assets required to
support the incarceration rate,” the U.S. could save as much as
$360 billion annually.  The Arab Spring protests that overthrew governments in
Tunisia and  Egypt , and launched crackdowns in Yemen, Bahrain and
 Syria  and a civil war in Libya, prompted the study’s authors to
extend the survey from December to March 15. That put  Libya ,
Bahrain and Egypt as the countries whose peacefulness had
declined the most of all countries surveyed.  The survey measured 33 indicators across 153 countries,
including murder rates, infant mortality, military spending,
press freedom, perceptions of criminality, levels of corruption,
education and foreign investment flows.  Most Dangerous  The most dangerous country in the world was Somalia, which
slipped past Iraq to rank last in the list of 153 countries.
Although Somalia is riven by civil war, Islamic insurgency and
piracy, its score on the peace index did improve slightly, as
the United Nations-backed transitional federal government
continued to maintain an uneasy calm in the capital, Mogadishu,
with the aid of African Union troops. A peaceful June election
in the Somaliland province and a decline in arms spending helped
improve the country’s score.  Iraq  came next (152) followed by  Sudan  (151) and
 Afghanistan  (150). Iraq’s peacefulness improved as organized
conflict declined, along with the civilian death toll, which
dropped to 4,045 civilians killed in 2010 from 4,687 in 2009,
according to the website  Iraq Body Count .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  