-- 
GM Loses Hedge Funds as Ackman Sees Soros in Selling Spree: Cars

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-05-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/gm-falls-out-of-favor-with-hedge-funds.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , one of the 10
most popular stocks for hedge funds at the end of last year,
fell out of favor in the first quarter as slower growth in China
and discounts in the U.S. dimmed the automaker’s prospects.  Bill Ackman ’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP, Barry Rosenstein’s Jana Partners LLC and  David Tepper ’s Appaloosa
Management LP were among the 49 hedge funds who sold their
entire GM stakes as of March 31, according to regulatory filings
compiled by Bloomberg. In total, 81 hedge funds sold GM in the
quarter, including Daniel Och’s  Och-Ziff Capital Management
Group LLC (OZM)  and  George Soros ’s Soros Fund Management LLC.  “We’ve seen some very smart people sell fairly soon,” said
Peter Nesvold, a Jefferies & Co. analyst in  New York . “It’s
probably going to take longer than expected to get paid for
holding GM, and investors can always just come back into it.”  GM has dropped 6.6 percent in New York trading from the
shares’ $33 initial public offering price in November. Investors
expected demand to prop up U.S. vehicle prices and predicted a
long-term boom in China’s auto market, Nesvold said. Instead
discounts at home climbed more than 10 percent and GM’s China
sales fell last month for the first time since December.  GM slid 13 cents to $30.83 yesterday and has declined 22
percent from an intraday high of $39.48 on Jan. 6.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson touted GM’s “high-
quality shareholder base” with “marquee names” in a Bloomberg
Television interview in November, after the largest U.S.
automaker’s IPO. GM doesn’t comment on individual investments in
the company, said Jim Cain, a spokesman.  Top 50  GM had the 10th most hedge fund investors as of Dec. 31,
with 112 owning the shares, according to Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s Hedge Fund Trend Monitor report released in February. GM
wasn’t listed in the top 50 of the report issued this month,
which analyzes holdings of 700  hedge funds  with $812 billion of
assets as of March 31.  Ackman’s Pershing Square was the largest seller of GM among
hedge funds in the quarter, disposing of 7.19 million shares,
according to Bloomberg data. Rosenstein’s Jana sold all 3.53
million of its shares, while Tepper’s Appaloosa sold all of its
1.38 million.  Och-Ziff sold 5.82 million shares and still holds 1.5
million, while Soros sold 828,300 shares and kept 123,700,
according to regulatory filings.  Perry, Einhorn Buy  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F with the Securities and Exchange
Commission within 45 days of each quarter’s end to show their
U.S.-listed stocks, options and convertible bonds. Pershing
Square, Och-Ziff and Jana declined to comment. Messages left
with Soros and Appaloosa were not returned.  Hedge funds still own about 4.04 percent of GM’s
outstanding shares, and 37 of them added to positions in the
quarter, according to Bloomberg data.  David Einhorn ’s Greenlight Capital Inc. opened a new
position in GM by buying 3.42 million shares. Richard Perry’s
Perry Corp. bought 1.25 million shares in the quarter to raise
its GM holding to 3.25 million.  Leon Cooperman ’s Omega Advisors
Inc. added 686,900 shares, increasing its holding to 3.18
million.  Greenlight declined to comment, and messages left with
Perry and Omega weren’t returned.  GM may continue to underperform the market because
investors expect the U.S. Treasury Department to sell its
remaining stake in the automaker, said Darren Fabric, a Chicago-
based managing director at IPOX Capital Management LLC, which
received an allocation of GM shares during its IPO.  Treasury’s Exit  The Treasury Department raised $13.6 billion and lowered
its holding in GM to 33 percent in the November IPO. The
Treasury won’t sell more shares until at least August to wait
for the price to climb, two people familiar with the decision
said this month.  “You might be rewarded if you’re a long-term holder, but
in the next six months there’s going to be overhang,” IPOX’s
Fabric said in a telephone interview. “Treasury wants to get
out of their shares. There’s nothing really to propel the stock
right now, no short-term catalyst.”  U.S. auto sales may slow to 11.9 million annual rate in May
on a seasonally adjusted basis,  J.D. Power  & Associates said
 last week . That would be the slowest pace since October and
would follow three straight months above 13 million, according
to Autodata Corp.  Sales May Slow  High gasoline prices, lower incentive spending and
inventory shortages may cause the sales to slow during the U.S.
summer and pressure the outlook for the year, said  Jeff Schuster , J.D. Power’s executive director of global forecasting.
The  Westlake Village , California-based researcher predicts sales
will total 13 million this year.  GM’s spending on discounts and promotions through March
rose to $3,566 per vehicle, 11 percent more than a year earlier,
according to Autodata. The industry average fell 5.6 percent to
$2,540, the  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based researcher said.  Lower prices cut GM’s profit by $300 million in the
quarter, mostly because of higher incentive spending in January
and February, Chief Financial Officer Dan Ammann said on a May 6
conference call.  GM’s sales in  China , where it is the biggest overseas
automaker, declined 4.5 percent to 203,367 in April. The drop
was GM’s first since December and followed the removal of
government incentives that helped the automaker boost sales in
the world’s largest market 29 percent to 2.35 million in 2010.  Other recent buyers include Akerson, GM’s 62-year-old CEO,
who bought 30,000 shares valued at $939,900 in a personal
investment disclosed in a May 12 regulatory filing.  “If you look out three years from now, GM is making a lot
of the right moves,” said Jefferies’ Nesvold, who has a
“hold” rating on GM shares. “They can capitalize on a lot of
the changes they’ve made.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 