-- 
GM Impala Plan Causes ‘Nervousness’ at Ontario Plant, CAW Says

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-05-25T19:39:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/gm-impala-plan-causes-nervousness-at-ontario-plant-caw-says.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s plan to build
the Chevrolet Impala in a Michigan plant next year “creates a
sense of nervousness” for the Ontario factory that makes the
sedan now, the Canadian Auto Workers’ leader said.  Workers at the Oshawa, Ontario, factory don’t know what the
consequences will be from GM’s announcement today that it will
spend $69 million and create 2,500 jobs at the Detroit-Hamtramck
plant to add production of the Impala and Chevrolet Malibu, CAW
President Ken Lewenza said today in a telephone interview.  “It creates a sense of nervousness because you need the
market to substantiate two facilities building the same
vehicle,” he said. “If the market isn’t there, one would have
to take a look and question GM’s decision when they already had
the investment in the Oshawa facility.”  GM, the largest U.S. automaker, is boosting production as
the nation’s auto sales rebound after dropping in 2009 to the
fewest since 1982. U.S. deliveries of the Impala rose 30 percent
this year through April from a year earlier, after a 3.9 percent
gain for all of 2010. The Detroit-Hamtramck plant already builds
the Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid car.  “We have made public Canadian production commitments and
fully intend to meet those targets,” Jason Easton, a spokesman
for Detroit-based GM, said in response to Lewenza’s comments.
The company has said annual output in Canada will be at least
16 percent of GM’s total North American production and will be
equal to 19 percent of what it builds in the U.S.  Two-Tiered Wages  Lewenza also said  the CAW  won’t support a two-tiered wage
system similar to what the  United Auto Workers  agreed to in the
U.S. four years ago. The Canadian union feels “pressures” from
GM for such a system, Lewenza said.  The UAW agreements call for $14-an-hour entry-level wages
for new hires, and about $28 for senior workers. CAW members at
the automaker are paid an average of about C$35 ($36) an hour,
with entry-level workers starting at 70 percent of that and able
to reach the senior rate after five years, Lewenza said.  The CAW’s contract with GM expires in 2012.  “When we go into negotiations, I totally understand that
as a result of the unemployment crisis and the lack of jobs, a
two-tiered job is a pretty good job compared to what else is
being offered,” Lewenza said. “But the reality is it is very,
very decisive.”  UAW Vice President Joe Ashton, who negotiates with GM, said
today that he wants to raise the entry-level wage in talks this
year. The union’s contract with GM expires in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  