-- 
Gold Companies May Face $100 Billion Liability for Sick Miners

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-05-25T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/gold-companies-may-face-100-billion-liability-for-ill-south-africa-miners.html
Toto Willie has little to show for a
decade’s work in  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s gold mines: a store
selling potato chips and kerosene, run from one of the three
rooms in his tin shack, and a 1985 Toyota station wagon.  He also has a medical certificate showing he has silicosis,
a scarring of the lungs caused by prolonged exposure to the dust
found in South African mines now run by companies such as Anglo
American-founded  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ,  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  and
Harmony Gold Mining Co.  “It’s hard to breathe,” Willie, 50, said last month at
his home in Happy Valley, a trash-strewn shantytown near Cape
Town, as he pulled the certificate from a worn folder. “I can’t
manage to work again. I need help.”  South Africa ’s highest court on March 3 ruled that ex-
miners such as Willie can seek redress from companies that
operated under an apartheid-era system to use cheap black labor
in the world’s deepest mines.  While the ultimate number of claims and their size is
impossible to determine, mining companies may face a liability
of as much as $100 billion,  Leon Esterhuizen , an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in London, said in a May 6 note to clients. A
settlement at a significantly lower level is more likely, he
said in a May 16 interview.  “The whole risk really depends on whether these people
putting these claims up can prove negligence by the mining
companies,” he said.  Floodgates Open  The Constitutional Court said workers who qualified for
state benefits for occupational disease could seek further
compensation from their former employers. It ruled that
Thembekile Mankayi, who contracted silicosis and tuberculosis
after working at the Vaal Reefs mine, formerly owned by Anglo
American, can sue for private compensation on top of his one-
time 16,316 rand ($2,320) government payout.  “The judgment potentially opens the floodgates for
claims,” said Warren Beech, a lawyer at  Webber Wentzel
Attorneys  in Johannesburg who is not involved in the litigation.
“You could be looking at an average of 1 to 2 million rand a
claim.”  RBC’s Esterhuizen based his May 6 estimate on the
assumption that there are 300,000 potential claimants, each
suing for at least 2 million rand.  “We’re trying to get our arms around what the potential
might be,” Gold Fields Chief Executive Officer Nicholas Holland
said on an investor call on May 19. “It’s speculative at this
stage to assume that there’s going to be a huge number of suits
or whether in fact those suits will even be successful.”  Separate Case  While AngloGold has made no provision for damages, it has
“fully complied with statutory and regulatory requirements,” the
Johannesburg-based company said in an e-mailed response to
questions. Harmony said in an e-mail that it’s too early to
determine liability.  Anglo American is fighting a separate silicosis damages
suit that was filed by 18 miners in 2004 and is due to come to
trial next year. Four of those workers have died.  “Anglo American believes that the claims against it are
ill-founded,” John Parker, the company’s chairman, said at its
annual general meeting in  London  on April 21.  A study published in 1998 in the Stockholm-based Journal of
Mineral Policy, Business and the Environment estimated that
196,560 former miners from South Africa and 84,240 from
neighboring states, working in South Africa under a system of
migrant labor, had occupational  lung disease  and had not been
compensated.  Fewer Miners  Surveys of miners who worked in South Africa put the
prevalence of the disease at between 17 percent and 32 percent
among older miners with longer service.  The number of gold miners in South Africa peaked at 489,000
in 1983, according to the Department of Mineral Resources. The
mines today employ about 160,000 people, according to the
Chamber of Mines, which represents mining companies.  “There is nothing you can do to treat silicosis,” Rodney
Ehrlich, a professor at the University of  Cape Town ’s  School of
Public Health and Family Medicine , said in an interview. “You
can’t reverse the scar tissue.”  Silicosis increases vulnerability to tuberculosis, which
mainly attacks the lungs and kills more than half its victims if
the latent infection isn’t properly treated.  Mankayi, who died a week before the ruling, had sought 2.7
million rand from AngloGold, created by Anglo American in 1998.
His lawyers have not yet decided how to proceed with the case.  ‘Potentially Huge’  “Usually these things take a very long time to sort
themselves out,” said Patrice Rassou, who helps manage about
330 billion rand, including AngloGold and Anglo American shares,
at Cape Town’s Sanlam Investment Management, in a May 16
interview. “If the companies need to make good and there are
potentially huge damages, that’s where it has an impact in terms
of the investment case.”  The miners’ medical difficulties stem from a system dating
from the early 1900s, after the discovery of the Witwatersrand,
the world’s biggest gold field, led to the creation of Anglo
American in 1917. The company led the development of an industry
that dominated world gold supply for decades.  Under the institutionalized racial discrimination of
apartheid and the whites-only-vote era that preceded it, mining
companies employed workers from the poorest communities of South
Africa,  Lesotho ,  Mozambique  and  Swaziland . The gold miners often
lived in crowded, single-sex hostels and worked in unsafe
conditions. About 1,000 were killed by accidents in 1909,
compared with 63 last year.  Deep Seams  Even now, workers hack gold-bearing ore out of seams as
deep as 2.4 miles (3.8 kilometers). Rock temperatures rise to as
high as 55 degrees Celsius (131 degrees Fahrenheit) and humidity
is close to 100 percent. The mines account for about 30 percent
of all gold ever mined in the world, according to  Rand Refinery ,
the country’s main gold processing plant.  “Mineworkers, and black mineworkers in particular, were
really treated like a commodity,” Richard Spoor, Mankayi’s
lawyer, said in an April 11 interview from White River, South
Africa. “A steady supply of healthy young men came to our mines
to be used, consumed, and, once they were broken, literally to
be discarded.”  In 2003 Spoor reached a 490 million-rand settlement with
Gencor Ltd. after it was sued by South African workers from
asbestos mines it controlled. He plans to file a series of court
cases on behalf of miners ill with silicosis to pressure gold-
mining companies into paying compensation.  No Mask  Willie says his employer never issued him with a mask and
paid him two weeks’ wages when he was told his job had been
terminated in 1995. His efforts to secure compensation from the
state have yielded nothing. Willie’s wife, Nowest, looks after a
neighbor’s two babies to supplement the few hundred rand the
family earns monthly from their store.  The government is planning talks with mining companies
about securing improved compensation for workers without them
having to resort to litigation, Mineral Resources Minister Susan Shabangu said about the silicosis cases.  “Compensation is not adequate,” she said in an April 18
interview in  Pretoria . “In fact, it’s a real joke.”  The  Chamber of Mines  said its members are improving working
conditions and new silicosis cases should be eradicated by 2014.
Mining companies have worked to pump more compressed air from
the surface into mining shafts to improve ventilation and have
installed better systems to monitor dust levels.  Mining companies have known for decades that silicosis is
preventable, yet were reluctant to incur the expenses of
providing adequate underground ventilation, Spoor said, which
makes them liable for damages.  “The million-dollar question is how big that settlement
will be,” Esterhuizen said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net .
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  