-- 
Grain, Soybean Futures Rise as Storms May Extend Planting Delays

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-05-25T19:47:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/grain-soybean-futures-rise-as-storms-may-extend-planting-delays.html
Corn futures rose for the first time
in three days and soybeans and wheat gained on speculation that
rain this week in the U.S. Midwest and northern Great Plains may
extend planting delays, threatening to curb crop yields.  Storms stretching from Iowa to  Ohio  may bring as much as
1.5 inches (3.8 centimeters) of rain by tomorrow, AccuWeather
Inc. forecast.  North Dakota , the biggest U.S. grower of spring
wheat, may get an inch by May 29, according to QT Weather Inc.
 Planting  of the three main crops is behind the normal pace
because of excess rain, with some of the biggest delays in Ohio,
North Dakota and  Indiana .  “It looks like we’ve got some weekend rain coming to North
Dakota and South Dakota, and I know it’s raining a little here
in Minneapolis, which wasn’t what we were expecting,” said Mark Schultz, the chief analyst at Northstar Commodity Investment Co.
Storms “may limit what we’re able to get planted,” he said.  Corn futures for July delivery rose 9 cents, or 1.2
percent, to settle at $7.4225 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
 Chicago  Board of Trade. The commodity has more than doubled in
the past year on increasing demand for livestock feed and
ethanol.  Soybean futures for July delivery rose 4.75 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $13.77 a bushel on the CBOT. Prices are up 48
percent in the past year on record Chinese purchases.  Wheat futures for July delivery gained 16.75 cents, or 2.1
percent, to $7.965 a bushel in Chicago, climbing for the first
time in a week. The price is up 73 percent in the past year.  Dry weather may cause “irreversible damage” to wheat
crops in  Europe , said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank
AG in Frankfurt.  “It’s 100 percent weather” supporting prices, said
 Charlie Sernatinger , a vice president at ABN Amro Clearing LLC
in Chicago. “We took some rain out of the forecast for
France,” prolonging drought concerns, he said.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, government figures
show. Wheat was fourth at $13 billion, behind hay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  