-- 
Einhorn Says Microsoft Should Replace Ballmer

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s ,   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-05-26T13:38:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/greenlight-s-einhorn-says-microsoft-s-directors-should-replace-ceo-ballmer.html
Greenlight Capital Inc. President
 David Einhorn  called for  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s board to replace
Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer , saying the software maker
suffers from “ Charlie Brown  management.”  Ballmer is weighing on the company’s share price, Einhorn
said yesterday at the  Ira Sohn Investment Conference  in New
York. Even so, he recommended Microsoft shares because the stock
trades at a “remarkable discount” to the  Standard & Poor’s  500
Index while the business outperforms the average S&P company.
Microsoft is Greenlight’s eighth-biggest U.S. stock holding.  “It’s time for Microsoft’s board to tell Steve Ballmer,
‘All right, we see what you can do, let’s give so-and-so a
chance,’” Einhorn said. “His continued presence is the biggest
overhang on Microsoft’s stock.”  Ballmer, 55, has come under increased scrutiny from
shareholders as the company loses market share to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
Google Inc. in mobile phones and Apple’s iPad takes sales from
personal computers running Microsoft’s Windows. Last year, the
board docked Ballmer some of his potential bonus for falling
short in the mobile industry and new forms of computers.  Greenlight, a New York-based hedge fund, added 1.39 million
Microsoft shares last quarter, for a total of 9.07 million,
according to a filing. The stake is worth $230.2 million.
Microsoft’s shares have underperformed the S&P 500 in four of
the past five quarters.  Frank Shaw , a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, declined to comment.  Top Shareholder  Ballmer is the company’s second-biggest shareholder -- with
more than 333 million shares, or almost 4 percent. Co-founder
and Chairman  Bill Gates  owns more than 561 million shares, or a
6.7 percent stake, according to Bloomberg data.  Microsoft climbed 30 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $24.49 at
9:37 a.m.  New York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The
shares declined 13 percent this year before today.  Einhorn, best known for profiting from bets against Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. four months before the firm collapsed in
2008, is a frequent speaker at the annual Ira Sohn conference.
In 2006, he used his speech to discuss his recent purchase of
Microsoft shares and to recommend the stock.  Since then, earnings per share have more than doubled and
four of Microsoft’s product segments have shown improvement,
Einhorn said. The company has also almost doubled its dividend
and is now trading at a far bigger discount to the S&P 500, he
said.  ‘Not Getting Credit’  “Microsoft trades at a remarkable discount,” Einhorn
said. “Microsoft is not getting credit for its achievements and
prospects.”  Microsoft shares trade for about 9.8 times profit from the
past year, or 34 percent less than the price-earnings ratio for
the  S&P 500 . That’s the biggest discount since at least 1992 for
the company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, Ballmer isn’t taking advantage of Microsoft’s
opportunities, Einhorn said. In his criticism, he likened
Ballmer to  Charlie Brown , a perpetual loser in baseball,
football and other pursuits. The cartoon character’s signature
lament is, “Good grief!”  “Ballmer’s problem is that he’s stuck in the past,”
Einhorn said. “He’s allowed competitors to beat Microsoft in
huge areas, including search, mobile-communications software,
tablet computing and social networking. Even worse, his response
to these failures has been to pour tremendous resources into
efforts to develop his way out of these holes.”  Internet Losses  Microsoft’s online services business, which includes the
Bing search engine, lost more than $700 million last quarter.  Einhorn, whose hedge fund manages $7.8 billion, criticized
Lehman’s accounting during a speech at the same conference in
2008. Four months later, Lehman filed for the largest bankruptcy
in U.S. history.  Einhorn said Lehman hadn’t disclosed its holdings of
collateralized debt obligations properly and wasn’t valuing its
commercial mortgage-related assets based on market prices.  His wagers haven’t always paid off. Einhorn said at the Ira
Sohn conference last year that he continues to bet against
rating agencies  Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  and McGraw-Hill Cos., owner of
Standard & Poor’s. Moody’s has risen 79 percent in the past
year, while shares of McGraw-Hill have climbed 51 percent.  Back in 2006, Einhorn compared his investment approach to
the strategy he uses in fantasy baseball, a game won by
assembling the best team of Major League Baseball players.
Einhorn said he’s usually reluctant to spend more than $30 on
individual players because he only has $260 to buy the whole
roster. Still, he said if  Alex Rodriguez , then the sport’s most
valuable player, were available for $35, he’d pony up.  Microsoft, he said at the time, was similar -- a little
higher valuation than the companies he usually buys, but
“Microsoft is A-Rod.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  