-- 
ICG’s Andersen Says Mezzanine to Stay on Fringes of LBO Finance

-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 
2011-05-25T16:45:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/icg-s-andersen-says-mezzanine-to-stay-on-fringes-of-lbo-finance.html
Mike Andersen, a director in the
investor management group at Intermediate Capital Group in
 London , said mezzanine debt will return to its roots as a niche
product tailored to individual borrowers. He spoke today at a
mezzanine finance conference sponsored by IIR Ltd. in Paris.  “Mezzanine came from being a niche product 10 to 15 years ago
and it will return back to being that niche privately-structured
product that is used in a variety of circumstances. It’s not
going to be as mainstream as it has been in the past. Mezzanine
got a bit formulaic and it’s going to have to revert back to
being structured for the company in which you’re investing.”  “We’re trying to remain flexible and trying to find
opportunities outside what we’d call the mainstream market.
Anything that can generate mezzanine-type returns we are able to
put into our funds and access these types of deals. We’ve done
anything from traditional mezzanine transactions to writing debt
at discounts.”  “Mezzanine has been tainted because of a number of high profile
cases where mezzanine did get wiped out. There were about 30
cases where the mezzanine lost all or some of its value. We all
know that the protections in the U.K. and Scandinavia were not
perhaps as robust as we would have liked - we’ve all recognized
that and we’ve all taken steps to address it.”  “The market has gone back to the 2002 period when deals were
structured much more appropriately with lower leverage and
better protection for mezzanine lenders.”  “Cash has always been the biggest competition for mezzanine.
There’s a bit of a short-term liquidity bubble building up in
the senior  debt market  with all the repayments that have come
back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Eeuwens in London 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 