-- 
Micro Focus in Buyout Talks Suggesting Software Steal: Real M&A

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-05-25T14:53:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/micro-focus-in-buyout-talks-suggesting-software-steal-real-m-a.html
Micro Focus International Plc (MCRO)  is
luring private-equity buyers with the cheapest valuation for a
non-U.S. business software provider even as the 50-year-old
computer code it was founded to translate becomes obsolete.  The Newbury, England-based seller of software to update
systems running programming languages such as Cobol is trading
at 12 times earnings, the lowest for an enterprise software
company outside America with a market value of more than $1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Potential
buyers would gain a company that’s also cheaper relative to its
free  cash flow  than 92 percent of global rivals, the data show.  While earnings and revenue growth are stalling after three
chief executives left in five years,  Micro Focus  still makes
almost twice as much profit per dollar of sales as the industry
average and has only $73 million in debt. Matrix Corporate
Capital LLP’s estimated price tag of $1.5 billion for Micro
Focus would make it the cheapest business software takeover
relative to earnings, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Bain
Capital LLC and Advent International Corp. have made approaches,
the company said last week.  “It’s a steal,” said George O’Connor, an analyst at
Panmure Gordon & Co. in London who recommends buying the shares.
“Considering a premium on the purchase price it would still
look cheap. It’s a very well-established company with many
customers and really nice products.”  Laura Stiff, a spokeswoman for Micro Focus, and Kelly Rapoport with Advent declined to comment. Alex Stanton, a
spokesman for Bain, didn’t respond to a call and e-mail
requesting comment.  Preliminary Interest  Micro Focus said on May 20 it had received and will explore
“a number of preliminary, non-binding approaches,” including
from Boston-based Bain and Advent. The company said there’s no
certainty regarding the submission of an offer or the price.  A takeover of Micro Focus at 455 pence ($7.36) a share, as
Matrix analyst Rajeev Bahl in London estimated last week, would
value the company including net debt at 7.8 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the
last 12 months. That would be the lowest multiple ever paid in
an enterprise software deal of more than $500 million, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Those terms would represent a 23 percent premium to the
stock’s average closing price over the past 20 days, compared
with the 38 percent average premium paid historically for deals
in the industry, the data show.  Early Computer Code  Micro Focus, which counts  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and HSBC Holdings Plc
as customers, makes software that allows companies utilizing old
programs on leased, power-hungry mainframes to use them on newer
computers and devices. Software with programming languages such
as Cobol -- the early computer code used to control automatic
teller machines, traffic lights and mobile phones -- can then be
run more cheaply.  The company,  founded  in 1976, acquired Austin, Texas-based
Borland Software Corp. in 2009 to expand in the software testing
business and reduce its reliance on legacy platforms.  “The jury is out on whether there is still growth in the
core Cobol business, but in testing, the market is growing
fast,” said Alex Jarvis, a technology analyst at Peel Hunt LLP
in London with a “hold” recommendation on Micro Focus. By
cutting costs, an acquirer could justify a bid of more than 5
pounds a share, Jarvis said.  Free Cash Flow  The software maker trades at 8.91 times free cash flow,
less than every company in the industry except for Tokyo-based
Nomura Research Institute Ltd. at 8.06 times and  CA Inc. (CA)  of
Islandia,  New York , at 8.85 times, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Meanwhile, Micro Focus made 23 cents per dollar of revenue
in the last 12 months, almost double the industry’s average
profit margin of 12.5 percent, the data show.  Vijay Anand, an analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank,
expects a buyout firm to pay as much as 450 pence a share and
boost revenue growth to as high as 10 percent annually.  “The key attractions are the recurring revenue stream, the
solid customer base and strong cash flows due to high Ebitda
margins,” said London-based Anand. “The issues the company has
are fairly fixable. It mostly requires consistency of leadership
and better focus on sales execution.”  The Cobol business may lure strategic buyers such as
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  or
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , while professional services and testing may be
attractive to IBM or Mumbai-based  Tata Consultancy Services
Ltd. (TCS) , said Panmure’s O’Connor.  Management Turnover  Ed Barbini, a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based IBM,
said the company has a policy of not commenting on rumors or
speculation.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Oracle of
 Redwood City ,  California , declined to comment. HP doesn’t
comment on rumor or speculation, the  Palo Alto , California-based
company said in an e-mail. Mike McCabe, a spokesman for Tata in
 North America , also declined to comment.  Micro Focus has been plagued by management turnover. Nigel Clifford left the post of CEO on April 15 after less than a
year, and just two months after the company said sales and
earnings were unlikely to recover by the end of the fiscal year
in April.  The shares fell 0.2 percent to 371 pence at 3:51 p.m. in
 London . Before today, they had slumped 21 percent over 12 months
as the FTSE All-Share Software & Computer Service Index climbed
21 percent. The company’s market value had dropped to about
734.8 million pounds ($1.2 billion) as of yesterday.  ‘Pedestrian’ Revenue Growth  A bid is not likely to emerge because of the company’s
“pedestrian” revenue growth, limited ability to boost margins
and the improbability of another public offering as Cobol
continues to age, Jonathan Imlah, an analyst with Collins
Stewart Plc in London, said in a May 23 report. The shares may
fall to 325 pence if a bid doesn’t emerge, a 13 percent drop
from yesterday’s closing price.  About 51 percent of $432.6 million in revenue in the year
ended April 2010 came from maintenance with 42 percent generated
by license fees, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Revenue is
projected to remain flat through 2012, according to the average
of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Half of the revenues are maintenance and that makes them
quite cash rich, which is why private-equity firms would be
looking at it,” Peel Hunt’s Jarvis said. “The core business
has had quite sparse growth.”  Micro Focus, which traded at as much as 21 times its
earnings in the past year, is now valued at 12 times, the lowest
for an enterprise software company greater than $1 billion
outside the U.S., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s a very cheap share, hence the opportunity,” said
Panmure’s O’Connor.  Overall, there have been 9,870 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $964.3 billion, a 22 percent increase from
the $792.8 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 