-- 
Highway Safety, Swap Rules, EU Parliament Activity, SAC Probe: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-05-25T12:17:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/highway-safety-eu-parliament-activity-sac-probe-compliance.html
The  National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration , the U.S. agency that issues rules intended to
protect passengers when crashes happen, for the next two years
will focus its automobile-safety work on preventing accidents,
the agency’s chief said.  The regulator, which in January issued a rule intended to
prevent passengers from being ejected in a crash, will examine
blood-alcohol content detection systems and technology enabling
vehicle-to-vehicle communications, NHTSA Administrator David
Strickland said yesterday at an Edmunds.com auto-safety
conference in  Washington .  The agency is developing guidelines for in-vehicle
communications systems, which include  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Sync and
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s OnStar, Strickland said. The agency also
plans rules to standardize keyless ignition systems and to
require event data recorders, he said.  Compliance Policy  Gensler Says Commodity Prices Show Need for Swaps Rules  Rising market prices underscore the need for Dodd-Frank Act
derivatives rules to curb speculation in commodities such as
oil, gold and natural gas,  Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
Chairman  Gary Gensler  told lawmakers.  Gensler made the written response to a letter from 17
senators seeking a CFTC plan for curbing crude-oil speculation.
Gensler’s letter said he was writing on behalf of Commissioners
Michael V. Dunn and  Scott O’Malia .  Regulators and lawmakers have attempted to rein in
speculation since 2008 amid concern that investors contributed
to oil’s rise to a record $147.27 a barrel. The CFTC has
proposed so-called position limits in agricultural, metals and
energy derivatives, under rulemaking authority granted by Dodd-
Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted last year.  The CFTC has “ample basis” to proceed with limits on
speculation in fuel commodities, starting with crude oil, the 17
senators wrote in their letter to Gensler.  The agency’s proposal, approved on Jan. 13, prompted about
12,000 comment letters from supporters including Delta Air Lines
Inc. and opponents such as  Barclays Capital  and Cargill Inc.  Nord Pool, Regulators Form Joint Council for Power Regulation  Nord Pool Spot AS , which runs electricity markets in the
Nordic area, formed a joint council with energy regulators in
the region to exchange market information and discuss regulatory
issues.  Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Estonia are
represented on the council and Antti Paananen, director general
of the Finnish Energy Market Authority, was elected chairman,
the Oslo-based exchange said yesterday on its website.  U.K. Treasury Panel Sets Terms of Reference for FSA/RBS Probe  The  U.K. House of Commons Treasury Committee  announced the
terms of reference for the independent review of the Financial
Services Authority’s report into the failure of  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)   The reviewers will “report on the extent to which the FSA
report is a fair and balanced summary of the evidence gathered
by the FSA and PricewaterhouseCoopers during their review of the
failure of RBS, and whether it fairly reflects the findings of
the FSA’s investigation,” the committee said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The independent review will also “report on whether the
FSA’s report is a fair and balanced summary of the Authority’s
own analysis of its regulatory and supervisory activities in the
run up to the failure of RBS.”  International Accounting Board Needs Funding, SEC Head Says  Reliable funding for the International Accounting Standards
Board is a “challenge,” and the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is trying to help, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said.  The board responsible for setting international accounting
standards, and for negotiations to converge standards with U.S.
accounting practices, “lacks an independent and assured source
of funding,” Schapiro said in remarks prepared for a Washington
meeting of the Financial Accounting Foundation, which oversees
the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board.  The London-based IASB is funded by donations given to the
International Financial Reporting Standards foundation. Without
financial independence, the organization could suffer
interference during times of crisis, said Schapiro, whose agency
oversees U.S. accounting and auditing standards regulators.  Special Section: European Parliament Developments  Parliament to Consider Basel III, Bank Deposits, OTC Trades  The  European Commission  will present a draft law by the end
of July to implement Basel III bank capital and liquidity rules
in the European Union, said Michel Barnier, the region’s
financial services commissioner.  The draft will take into account “the unique qualities of
 Europe ’s banking system,” Barnier said.  Barnier was speaking to lawmakers in the  European
Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee . He
repeated that the commission also intends to propose
“additional measures” on bankers’ pay.  Separately, banks will have to guarantee that deposits of
100,000 euros ($141,000) or less will be fully refunded if the
lender fails, under draft plans approved by lawmakers at the
European Parliament yesterday.  The assembly’s economic and monetary affairs committee also
said that bank-account holders should get their money back
within five working days. The guarantees would be funded by the
banks themselves.  The committee was voting on proposals made by the European
Commission in July to bolster deposit guarantee programs in the
27-nation EU. The region’s governments and the full Parliament
must approve the final version of the measures before they can
come into force.  In another development, the European Union moved closer to
adopting measures to force some trading of over-the-counter
derivatives through clearinghouses in a bid to safeguard
financial markets.  Lawmakers in a  European Parliament  committee approved
proposals to empower the  European Securities and Markets
Authority  to decide on types of derivatives that should be
centrally cleared. Traders that flout the rules face penalties
including fines.  OTC derivatives lack transparency and “can make it
difficult to identify the nature and level of risks” that banks
and other companies are taking, the lawmakers said in a report
approved by the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee.  Regulators from the Group of 20 countries have sought to
toughen rules on OTC derivatives such as credit-default swaps
after the failure in September 2008 of  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)  and the rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , two of
the largest CDS traders. The G-20 said trades should pass
through clearinghouses and be logged in trade repositories.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  FSA Gets Permanent Market Abuse Ban, Levies $1.77 Million Fine  The U.K. finance regulator won a permanent court order
preventing a man from committing market abuse for the first time
and fined him 1.09 million pounds ($1.77 million) for inflating
the price of Global Brands Licensing Plc.  Samuel Nathan Kahn, whose Chesteroak Ltd. and Bingen
Investments Ltd. were put into liquidation by the Financial
Services Authority in 2008 after they found that they helped
boiler rooms defraud as many as 800 investors, inflated the
price of GBL last year, the regulator said in  a statement 
yesterday.  At a court hearing last week, FSA lawyer Andrew George told
Judge Guy Newey that Kahn didn’t oppose the injunction barring
him from committing market abuse. Kahn wasn’t at the hearing,
nor was a lawyer for him.  He received the regulator’s standard 30 percent discount on
the fine for cooperating.  Senate’s Grassley Seeks SEC Report on SAC Capital Referrals  U.S. Senator Chuck Grassley asked the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission for information relating to its stock-
trading inquiry into hedge-fund firm SAC Capital Advisors LP.  In a letter sent yesterday, Grassley, the senior Republican
on the Judiciary Committee, asked SEC chairman Mary Schapiro to
explain how the regulator has handled allegations of suspicious
trading. Grassley’s office has said he has received about 20
examples from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority of
possible insider trading involving SAC Capital.  His letter asks the SEC how it resolved the referrals, how
the number of referrals compares to similar firms, and whether
the agency drafted a related Wells notice -- a formal
notification from the SEC that the agency is considering a
lawsuit.  The Iowa senator had asked Finra last month to provide
information on the “potential scope of suspicious trading
activity” at the firm founded by billionaire  Steven A. Cohen .
SAC Capital, which has about $13 billion under management, has
come under scrutiny in an insider-trading probe that has
included hedge funds, corporate executives and so-called expert
networking firms.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  Polish Phone Regulator Awards TPSA 67 Million-Zloty Subsidy  Poland’s telecommunications regulator awarded
 Telekomunikacja Polska SA (TPS) , the country’s largest phone company,
67 million zloty ($23.9 million) as a subsidy for providing so-
called common services, which include installing public phone
booths, the watchdog said on its website yesterday.  The company, known as TPSA, had sought 803.7 million zloty.  Lloyds to Pay $33 Million for Rejecting Customer Complaints  Lloyds Banking Group Plc’s Bank of  Scotland  unit must pay
20.5 million pounds ($33.3 million) for rejecting complaints
over retail investment products without taking customers’
circumstances into account.  The bank was fined 3.5 million pounds by Britain’s
Financial Services Authority for mishandling complaints, and
agreed to pay 17 million pounds in compensation to customers,
the regulator said in  a statement  today.  Bank of Scotland “wrongly rejected a significant number”
of the 2,592 complaints it received between July 2007 and
October 2009, the FSA said. The agency found the bank didn’t
fairly assess whether the investments were suitable for the
customers who complained, and didn’t analyze the complaints it
received as a way to improve its business.  The fine is the second resulting from the FSA’s probe of
financial firms’ complaint handling, the regulator said. In
January, the FSA fined Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and its
National Westminster Bank unit a total of 2.8 million pounds for
delays responding to customers, failing to address their
concerns, and not giving bank staff adequate training.  “We have fallen short of the high standards of service our
customers should be able to expect of us and we apologize,”
said Ray Milne, the risk director at Bank of Scotland. “We are
in the process of contacting affected customers and will pay
compensation where it is due.”  Bank of Scotland said in an e-mailed statement that it
cooperated with the FSA probe and accepts the findings.  For more, click here.  Courts  UBS Banker Poteroba’s Friend Koval Sentenced to 26 Months  Alexei Koval, who admitted that he conspired with former
 UBS AG (UBSN)  investment banker Igor Poteroba to make $1.4 million in a
four-year insider-trading scheme, was sentenced to 26 months in
prison.  Koval, 37, who worked at Northern Trust as a pricing
manager before his arrest in March 2010, was sentenced yesterday
in Manhattan federal court after pleading guilty in January to
conspiracy and securities fraud.  Poteroba, who was an investment banker in the health-care
group at UBS Securities LLC before his arrest, was sentenced to
22 months behind bars in March after pleading guilty to insider
trading. He admitted that he tipped friends to potential
mergers. Poteroba, 37, is at the same  detention  center as Koval,
according to records of the U.S. Bureau of Prisons.  Koval said in his guilty plea that he paid for tips.  The case is U.S. v. Koval, 10-CR-443, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Finra’s Ketchum Says Structured Products ‘Areas of Concern’  Structured products are “areas of concern” for the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, said Richard Ketchum,
head of Wall Street’s self-funded regulator.  Brokers who sell structured products, which are securities
created by banks that package debt with derivatives as
customized investment bets, must “truly understand the products
they sell,” Ketchum said yesterday at the regulator’s annual
conference in Washington. Sales of structured products rose 46
percent last year to a record $49.5 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Brokers can’t rely on firm approval alone to satisfy
their suitability obligations,” said Ketchum, Finra’s chairman
and chief executive officer. “This is particularly important
with the proliferation of increasingly complex financial
products, and at a time when certain investors are tempted to
chase yield in today’s lower interest rate environment.”  Broker-dealers regulated by Finra are currently required to
offer products to clients that are “suitable” to their needs.
A Securities and Exchange Commission study mandated by the Dodd-
Frank Act recommended broker-dealers instead be subject to a
fiduciary standard as rigorous as that which requires investment
advisers to act in clients’ “best interests.”  Banking Commission Says U.K. Gave Pledge on Independence  John Vickers, chairman of the U.K.’s  Independent Commission
on Banking , said the commission had no part in the so-called
Project Merlin talks with banks and received “instant and
unequivocal” assurances from the government that its
independence wouldn’t be compromised.  “We were absolutely not part of the Merlin discussions,
which were between the government on the one hand and the banks
on the other,” Vickers told a  House of Commons committee  during
a three-hour hearing in  London  yesterday. “The government gave
us in absolutely clear terms assurances that there would be no
compromises of any kind.”  Vickers didn’t directly respond to a parliamentarian’s
suggestion that the government assurance followed a threat by
the ICB to resign. The government had offered to water down the
commission’s recommendations in return for a cut in bonuses, the
Evening Standard reported in March.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,
Barclays Plc and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  agreed in February to pay
lower bonuses to U.K. staff and boost business lending under the
 Project Merlin  agreement with the government. The ICB’s interim
report last month recommended that the U.K.’s biggest banks
boost capital, implement plans for an orderly bankruptcy and
erect fire breaks around consumer units to boost financial-
system stability.  The panel has spoken to the  Bank of England  and the
Financial Services Authority about its plans, Vickers said, and
will meet the main banks again next month.  Juncker Says Soft Restructuring Alone Won’t Solve Greek Crisis  Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker, who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said a soft restructuring of Greek
debt wouldn’t be sufficient to solve Greece’s financial
problems.  “I want savings, structural reforms and privatization,”
Juncker said today in an interview on RTL Luxembourg radio.
“And then in the framework of a possible additional program for
Greece one can also speak about a reprofiling and a soft
restructuring. First the measures, then the consequences, not
the other way around. And it’s not an alternative to more
practical measures.”  Comings and Goings  Bafin’s Roeseler May Land Job as Top Bank Regulator, FTD Says  Bafin unit head Raimund Roeseler is likely to take over as
Germany’s top banking regulator at the agency, Financial Times
Deutschland reported, citing unidentified government people.  Roeseler, who currently heads the regulator’s general
policy unit, is likely to be named as successor to Sabine
Lautenschlaeger, Bafin’s executive director for banking
supervision, within days, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 