-- 
Tim Hortons Begins CEO Search; Names House Interim Chief

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-05-25T20:34:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/tim-hortons-begins-ceo-search-names-house-interim-chief-1-.html
Tim Hortons Inc. (THI) , the Canadian-based
coffee and breakfast chain, has started a search for a new chief
executive officer after the surprise exit of Don Schroeder.  Schroeder no longer serves as president and chief executive
officer of Tim Hortons, the Oakville, Ontario-based company said
today in a statement. Paul House, the executive chairman, was
named interim chief executive. Tim Hortons did not give a reason
for the management change and Nick Javor, a company spokesman,
declined to comment beyond the press release.  “It’s definitely a surprise to investors this morning,”
said Christopher O’Cull, an analyst at SunTrust Robinson
Humphrey in Nashville,  Tennessee . “Don and the board just were
not able to reach an agreement for succession planning.” O’Cull
advises buying the shares.  The restaurant chain has sought to increase its U.S.
business, adding self-serve kiosks to increase brand awareness.
Tim Hortons, which competes with fellow coffee-chain operators
Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. and  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , closed 36
underperforming shops in  New England  recently to focus on other
growth areas in the U.S.  Schroeder, who was appointed president and chief executive
in 2008, led store expansion during his tenure, expanding the
chain to 3,782 locations worldwide, as of April 3. In February,
Tim Hortons said it plans to open 120 restaurants in the Middle
East over the next five years.  Franchisee to CEO  Schroeder joined Tim Hortons in 1991 as a franchisee with
several restaurants. He later became an executive vice president
in charge of distribution, manufacturing, real estate and
construction.  The board “felt like he wasn’t the right person to execute
the five-year strategic plan,” which includes menu innovation
and store growth, O’Cull said. “What they’re probably going to
look for is somebody with maybe more food-service expertise.”  Net income for the three months ended April 3 slipped 3.7
percent to C$81.41 million, or 48 cents a share, from C$84.57
million, or 45 cents, the year before. Analysts had predicted 51
cents a share. Revenue was C$643.5 million, up 10 percent from a
year earlier.  Tim Hortons , along with other restaurants and food
companies, has seen higher raw ingredient prices over the past
year. The chain experienced “sharp increases” in the prices of
coffee and wheat this year, Chief Financial Officer Cynthia Devine said on a conference call earlier this month.  The company declined 82 cents, or 1.8 percent, to C$45.05
at 4:10 p.m. on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  