-- 
India Sees Little Chance for Emerging-Market Candidate to Become IMF Chief

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-05-25T00:43:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/india-sees-little-chance-for-emerging-market-candidate-to-become-imf-chief.html
A rush by European officials to
maintain a 65-year lock on the International Monetary Fund’s top
job leaves little hope for a candidate from an emerging economy,
 India ’s representative to the institution said.  “I’m not totally pessimistic but I’m not at all
optimistic,” Arvind Virmani, who represents India and three
other countries on the IMF board, said in an interview yesterday
in Washington. “There is no indication which suggests that the
result will be any different this time.”  Officials including U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne and Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi have said
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  should replace
countryman Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who resigned last week
following his arrest on sexual assault charges in  New York , as
the IMF’s chief.  Virmani said the European stance contradicts calls by the
Group of 20, which includes the advanced economies plus major
emerging ones, for a selection process based on merit rather
than geography.  Virmani and IMF representatives for Russia,  China ,  South
Africa  and Brazil yesterday released a statement urging
“abandoning the obsolete unwritten convention” by which the
IMF leader is always a European and the head of the World Bank
an American. Countries from the European Union hold about 31
percent of the votes at the agency and the U.S. 17 percent.  “If the Fund is to have credibility and legitimacy, its
managing director should be selected after broad consultation
with the membership,” the directors from the so-called BRICS
nations wrote.  Virmani said he is consulting with his counterparts from
Brazil, Russia and China about putting a candidate forward.  Advising Friends  “At this point in time if I was advising my own friends, I
would have to frankly tell them that ‘the probability of your
winning is minuscule and you’re really competing for second
place,’” he said. At the same time “there is still perhaps
merit in saying that ‘we tried’ even though we knew that it
would fail.”  Mexico is nominating its central bank governor, Agustin Carstens, who in an interview yesterday said it was too early to
say which countries will back him.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters last week
that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis “speaks for a European
candidate.”  Virmani objected to that logic.  “There was no discussion about who’s the best, there were
statements, saying that ‘we have to have a European because
there’s a European crisis,’” said Virmani, who also represents
Bangladesh, Bhutan and Sri Lanka.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  