-- 
ING Said to Get Latin America Assets Bid From Banorte Group

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-05-26T12:54:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/ing-said-to-get-bid-for-latin-america-assets-from-banorte-luksic-family.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, received a bid for Latin American
insurance assets from a group that includes  Chile ’s Luksic
family and Mexico’s Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB, said a person
with direct knowledge of the situation.  The group was among bidders that submitted offers by a May
9 deadline, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the talks aren’t public. Other financial-services
companies and private-equity funds are also interested in the
assets, another person said.  ING said Feb. 16 it was reviewing options for the  Latin
America  assets, which include pension and annuities businesses
acquired from Banco Santander SA in 2008. The Amsterdam-based
lender agreed to split its insurance and banking units by the
end of 2013 to gain European Union approval for the government
bailout it received during the financial crisis.  The company  bought assets  in  Mexico , Chile,  Colombia ,
Uruguay and  Argentina  from  Spain ’s Banco Santander for $1.6
billion. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is advising ING on the asset
sale, said the people with knowledge of the matter.  “ING’s strategic review of the Latin American assets
includes the possibility of a sale,” said Victorina de Boer, an
ING spokeswoman, who declined to comment on the identity of
potential buyers.  Luksic Assets  ING’s insurance unit in the region includes pension,
insurance and investment businesses in Mexico, Chile,  Peru ,
Colombia and Uruguay. The firm is also active in  Brazil  via Sul
America SA, in which it has a 36 percent stake.  The unit, Insurance Latin America, last year had a profit
excluding divestments and special items of 342 million euros
($485 million), a 25 percent increase from 2009.  The Luksic family owns the Chilean holding company  Quinenco
SA (QUINENC) , which controls Banco de Chile, the country’s second-largest
lender, brewer Cia. Cervecerias Unidas SA and copper-products
company Madeco SA. Separately, Luksic controls copper producer
Antofagasta Plc.  Maria Teresa Soza, an outside spokeswoman for Quinenco,
said the company doesn’t comment on speculation. Ayax Carranza
Segura, a Banorte spokesman, didn’t respond to a call and an e-
mail seeking comment. A Goldman Sachs spokeswoman declined to
comment.  Banorte is Mexico’s third-largest bank by  outstanding loans 
after Grupo Financiero BBVA Bancomer SA and Citigroup Inc.’s
Banco Nacional de Mexico SA, known as Banamex.  Dutch Aid  ING received 10 billion euros of state aid in 2008 and
transferred the risk on 21.6 billion euros of U.S. mortgage
assets to the Dutch government. The company, which paid back 5
billion euros in December 2009, redeemed another 2 billion euros
earlier this month and plans to repay the remainder of the aid
by May 2012.  ING’s Latin American insurance businesses’ book value is
estimated to be about 2.2 billion euros, Lemer Salah, an
Amsterdam-based analyst at SNS Securities, said in a note today.
The unit could be divested for 1.1 times to 1.3 times price to
book, Salah said, helping ING to pay back the Dutch state.  ING has said it wants to reduce its balance sheet by about
45 percent from 2008 levels. In addition to EU-imposed
divestments, which also include its U.S. online-banking unit and
Dutch retail lender WestlandUtrecht Bank, the company has been
selling other non-strategic assets. The company agreed earlier
this year to sell the majority of its Real Estate Investment
Management unit for about 770 million euros.  The firm is considering divesting its insurance operations
in the other parts of the world through two initial public
offerings, one for the European and Asian insurance businesses
and one for the U.S. The IPOs will most likely take place in
2012, Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen has said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 