-- 
Internet Bunny Speaks Your Mind, Wiggles Ears: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-05-25T20:45:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/internet-bunny-speaks-your-mind-wiggles-ears-rich-jaroslovsky.html
“If I’d asked my customers what
they’d wanted,”  Henry Ford  supposedly observed, “they would
have said, ‘a faster horse.’”  From personal computers to super-smartphones and iPads, the
entire consumer-technology industry is based on selling people
stuff they didn’t know they wanted or needed. The hard part for
the industry is explaining to people who’ve never seen a product
just how and why they’d use it.  With that in mind, here are three “whazzit” devices where
the first order of business is figuring out what it actually,
you know, does.  The Chumby  The Chumby has been around for a couple of years now, and
it’s still hard to describe. Is it an Internet radio and alarm
clock? A digital picture frame that runs apps?  The newest model, the  Chumby 8 , is a little less eccentric
than its two predecessors, both of which combined Internet
connectivity with a sort of retro-1950s-plastic design. The new
one looks like a digital frame with an eight-inch LCD touch
screen. But underneath the hood is a lightweight microprocessor,
some memory and a Linux-based operating system.  $200 Computer  It is, in short, a miniature, keyboard-less, $200 computer.
Once you add it to your Wi-Fi network, you gain access to more
than 1,000 Chumby apps, including everything from public webcams
and David Letterman monologues to Pandora Internet Radio and BBC
Sports headlines.  You can also use the Chumby to update your Facebook status
and check your Netflix queue, even play Mini Golf. Oh, yes -- it
displays photos too.  There’s also a $5 app for your mobile device running  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software that will turn it into a Chumby -- in
other words, an Android app that runs your Chumby apps. Very
meta.  If you find the new Chumby a little too staid, maybe the
Karotz will be more to your tech tastes. “Staid” isn’t a word
that will ever be used to describe this multipurpose Internet
appliance.  The Karotz  The  Karotz , which is currently on sale in  Europe  for 200
euros, and available for pre-order in the U.S. for $200, is an,
er, rabbit -- a 9-inch-tall (counting the ears) white bunny with
a Hello-Kitty-type face and a glowing color tummy.  Mindscape (ALMIN) ,
the French company behind it, describes it as an “intelligent
house robot.”  What does it do? Quite a bit, once you connect it to your
Wi-Fi network. The Karotz includes among other things a speaker
for playing Internet radio, a webcam and a surprisingly good
synthesized voice that can, for instance, read you headlines
from the New York Times. You activate the device’s functions by
pushing a button on top of its head and speaking your
instructions -- “Beatles Radio” or “weather  San Francisco .”  You can install applications from the Karotz website, and
little programmable tags that come with it use a technology
called RFID to trigger events when waved near the device. So,
for instance, a kid could signal to a parent at work that he or
she was home from school.  A free controller app for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and iPhone
allows you to do even more remotely. You can see what the Karotz
is seeing and take snapshots, or type a text message that the
Karotz will speak. You can even make the Karotz’s ears rotate
from anywhere in the world. Of course, the real question is why
you’d want to do all those things. I can’t help you on that one.  You can also directly call another Karotz, sort of like an
Internet intercom, if anyone else you know is geeky enough to
have one too. If it sounds a little creepy, it is -- in a fairly
benign way. It is, after all, a rabbit.  The Pogoplug  Compared to the Karotz, the  Pogoplug  is positively
practical. It actually has a real purpose: putting your personal
files online without trusting them to a third party’s servers,
where they could theoretically be hacked, cracked or otherwise
compromised.  Your data, rather than being stored in “the cloud,” never
leaves your control. Instead, by hooking an external hard drive
or computer to a Pogoplug, and then connecting it in turn to
your router, you’re creating your own personal cloud. Any files
-- including music, movies and photos -- on the connected drive
can be accessed from anywhere over the Internet via a web
browser, software for Macs and Windows PCs, or free apps for
iPhones, iPads and Android devices.  The Pogoplug device comes in three versions, ranging in
price from $100 to $300, depending on capabilities. In a
possible preview of things ahead, though, the company has also
launched free and $30 software-only versions that offer some of
the same functionality without the cables, space requirements
and power needs of the hardware. So the question is whether the
Pogoplug device answers a genuine need you have.  Then again, you could ask the same question of all three of
these gadgets.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 