-- 
Turkey Yields Fall After Bank Keeps Rates, Reserve Ratios Steady

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-05-25T15:16:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/lira-heads-for-two-month-low-on-expected-increase-in-reserve-requirements.html
Turkish bond yields fell the most in
two weeks after the central bank left its benchmark interest
rate unchanged and didn’t mention an expected increase to banks’
 reserve requirements  in an accompanying statement.  Benchmark two-year debt rose for the first day in four,
sending the yields 6 basis lower points to 8.91 percent at the 5
p.m. close in Istanbul, the biggest decline since May 9,
according to the TEB Local Benchmark Bond Index.  “I expect one- and two-year bond yields to fall somewhat
further,” Erkin Isik, a fixed-income strategist at Turk Ekonomi
Bankasi AS, said in e-mailed comments after the bank’s decision.
“It looks that the bank won’t hike rates in the next meeting
unless there is a sudden jump in bank lending.”  The central bank kept the benchmark rate steady at a record
low of 6.25 percent at a meeting in Ankara today and didn’t
announce any increase in the reserves ratio, which it’s raised
four times since December to curb lending by banks. The bank was
expected to raise the ratio for deposits of up to a month to 17
percent from 16 percent, according to the median forecast of 16
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The central bank is trying to slow economic growth, which
draws in imports, without raising the benchmark rate and
attracting short-term capital. The bank has added 10 percentage
points to reserve requirements since December, aiming to reduce
the amount of money banks can lend and rein in the current
account deficit.  The main ISE National 100 share index dropped 1.5 percent
to 63,609.31. The lira depreciated 0.6 percent to 1.6080 per
dollar, heading for its weakest close since March 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  