-- 
Is There a Way to Make LinkedIn Add Up?

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-05-25T01:11:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/is-there-a-way-to-make-linkedin-add-up-.html
Word is out that the season of
initial public offerings is upon us. This is not an entirely
fresh observation. Nevertheless, the numbers surrounding the
offering by LinkedIn Corp., the networking site for job hunters
and recruiters and the belle of the IPO May Ball, are worth
setting in type (or pixels) -- just to keep in our collective
field of vision.  On May 19, LinkedIn’s first trading day, the stock closed
at $94.25, a jump of 109 percent from the $45 offering price,
putting the company’s market value at a stratospheric $9
billion.  A share of stock is supposed to represent a claim on a
company’s future earnings. Though LinkedIn shares declined in
the days after its IPO, they were still trading at more than 520
times 2010 earnings of $15.4 million. Considering that the
company itself is warning that revenue growth is likely to
decline this year, this level seems hard to justify. By
comparison, the average price-to-earnings ratio among the
Standard & Poor’s 500 stocks is just below 15. On the tech-heavy
Nasdaq, the average is 23. Perennial high-flier Google Inc.
trades at a ratio of 20.  Of course, the IPO resurgence can be read as a healthy sign
that investor confidence is returning after a recessionary
drought. High prices just might encourage entrepreneurs to take
risks with their capital, creating more startups and much-needed
jobs. And who knows, the other hot Internet offerings on the
horizon (Facebook Inc. and Groupon Inc., to name two) might
fetch high valuations based on strong sales and earnings.  Still, wariness on the part of individual investors may not
be such a bad thing. Consider this: Thirty million LinkedIn
shares changed hands on the first trading day, meaning that each
of the company’s 7.8 million shares traded, on average, 3.8
times. Chances are that the smart money was buying and instantly
selling to make a profit, leaving someone else -- small
investors? -- holding the bag.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  