-- 
Israel’s Fischer Says Prepared to Act to Stem Shekel Strength

-- B y   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-05-25T14:38:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/israel-s-fischer-says-prepared-to-act-to-stem-shekel-strength.html
Bank of  Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  said the central bank is monitoring foreign exchange
inflows and is prepared to take action if the strengthening
shekel causes serious harm to exports.  “We do not want to have to deal with controls on capital
flows,” Fischer said today in an interview with Bloomberg
Television at a meeting of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development in Paris. “But we will not let the
economy come to a situation in which we will have done severe
damage to exports, which are the most important motor of growth
in the Israeli economy.”  The shekel has strengthened about 9 percent against the
dollar in the past 12 months. The bank began buying foreign
currency in March 2008 and has more than doubled reserves since
then in an effort to moderate shekel gains and help exporters
compete. Fischer also ordered Israeli banks to meet a 10 percent
reserve requirement for foreign exchange derivative transactions
by non-residents beginning Jan. 27.  Low  interest rates  in the U.S. and  Europe  have spurred
increased inflows into Israel and other countries where
borrowing costs are higher. Fischer on May 23 raised the
benchmark interest rate a quarter percentage point to 3.25
percent, the fourth increase this year.  The Manufacturers Association of Israel criticized the
decision, saying the widening gap between Israeli rates and
those in the U.S. and Europe would lead to a further
strengthening of the shekel.  Exchange Rate   “At the moment, we don’t see a massive impact on the
exchange rate,” Fischer said. “If markets move in directions
we don’t foresee at the moment, we will, if necessary, have to
intervene.”  He also said the bank doesn’t have “any plans to
accelerate the rate of the increase of the interest rate.”  The bank expects to raise its growth forecast of 4.5
percent for 2011 in “a couple of weeks,” Fischer said today.
Exports expanded 16 percent in the first quarter, the  Central
Bureau of Statistics  said on May 16. Fischer said yesterday that
the bank was “surprised” the figure was so high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Francine Lacqua at   flacqua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
barden@bloomberg. 