-- 
Jackson Hewitt Wins Approval of Court to Use Cash Collateral in Bankruptcy

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-05-25T19:09:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/jackson-hewitt-wins-court-approval-to-use-cash-collateral-in-bankruptcy.html
Jackson Hewitt Tax Service Inc. (JTX) , the
second-largest U.S. tax preparer, won court approval to use cash
held as lenders’ collateral while it prepares to seek permission
on July 8 to exit bankruptcy under a pre-negotiated plan.  The Parsippany, New Jersey-based company sought  bankruptcy
protection  yesterday after U.S. regulators moved to curb the
loans that tax preparers arrange for customers expecting
refunds.  Jackson Hewitt listed as much as $500 million in assets and
debts in Chapter 11 documents filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Wilmington,  Delaware . Chapter 11 of the  bankruptcy code  is
typically used by companies trying to reorganize and continue
operating.  The “basic reason we are here is to fix this balance
sheet,” Mark A. McDermott, a lawyer representing the company,
told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath at a hearing today.  Under  Jackson Hewitt ’s plan, lenders would receive a new
$100 million  term loan  plus all of the equity in the company
once it reorganizes and leaves bankruptcy. The company also
would sign a new, $115 million revolving credit agreement.
Existing stockholders would get nothing under the plan.  Walrath will consider the restructuring proposal at a July
8 hearing, which she scheduled today.  ‘Vastly Underwater’  “The banks are vastly underwater here,” with about $357
million in secured debt and a company with a midpoint value of
about $225 million, McDermott said at the hearing. He said the
lenders are projected to recoup about 52 cents on the dollar.  “This is one of those cases where there just won’t be
anything for unsecured creditors,” McDermott added.  The company prepared 2.53 million tax returns in 2010, it
said in a regulatory filing. It has about 6,000 franchised and
company-owned offices in the U.S. Last fiscal year, it earned 94
percent of its income from Jan. 1 through April 30.  The case is In re Jackson Hewitt Tax Service, Inc., 11-
11587,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware,
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 