-- 
JFK’s Man-on-Moon Dream Shown on Tapes to Be Offset by Worry Over Stunt

-- B y   M i c h a e l   T a c k e t t
-- 
2011-05-25T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/jfk-man-on-moon-dream-shown-on-tapes-offset-by-worry-over-stunt.html
John F. Kennedy ’s call to send a man
to the moon symbolized the soaring ambition associated with his
presidency. In private, he was more a cold-eyed realist,
concerned that the mission would be dismissed as a costly
“stunt” and might be better recast as a military venture.  A presidential recording to be released today by the John
F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum reveals a Kennedy
conversation in the Oval Office with then-NASA administrator
 James Webb  in which the president expresses doubts that belie
his public promotion of manned space travel.  “This looks like a hell of a lot of dough to go to the
moon,” Kennedy told Webb at the September 1963 meeting.  The release marks the 50th anniversary of Kennedy’s  speech 
to Congress on May 25, 1961, in which he said the U.S. should
commit within the decade to “landing a man on the moon and
returning him safely to the Earth.”  “No single space project in this period will be more
impressive to mankind, or more important for the long-range
exploration of space; and none will be so difficult or expensive
to accomplish,” Kennedy said.  Two years after that address, the president was confronting
budget issues as he was contemplating his 1964 re-election
campaign, acknowledging that the moon mission probably wouldn’t
be accomplished during his time in office.  His conversation with Webb took place on Sept. 18, 1963,
two months before the president was assassinated in  Dallas .  Heat Is On  During the meeting, Kennedy voiced concern about possible
criticism of the venture when “you can learn most of that you
want scientifically through instruments,” according to a
transcript. Some people might think “putting a man on the moon
really is a stunt and it isn’t worth that many billions,”
Kennedy told Webb of the program, which  ultimately cost  about
$20 billion, according to the  National Aeronautics and Space
Administration .  “Therefore, the heat’s going to go on unless we can say
this has got some military justification and not just
prestige.”  John Logsdon, author of the book, “John F. Kennedy and the
Race to the Moon,” said the space program “was never dreamy
and lofty in Kennedy’s mind. He was worried that the prestige
value wasn’t enough.”  “The key was that this was a political conversation in
which Kennedy was worried about how he was going to maintain
support for a program that he thought in the long run was a good
idea,” said Logsdon, a space-policy specialist at George
 Washington  University in Washington.  Logsdon said Kennedy had been bothered by a Reader’s Digest
article in August 1963 that questioned whether the U.S. pursuit
of a moon landing was as valuable as the  Soviet Union  orbiting
the Earth, a mission with greater direct military application.  ‘I Am Concerned’  At one point, Webb asked the president, “Would you be
better off thinking about ‘64 in the political year, if you just
took a military man and put him in charge of this program?”  Kennedy said that wasn’t necessary, “but I am concerned.”
He added: “I think this can be an asset, this program. I think
in time, it’s like a lot of things, this is mid-journey and
therefore everybody says ‘what the hell are we making this trip
for’ but at the end of the thing they may be glad we made it.”  Maura Porter, archivist of the Kennedy Library, said the
conversation showed the “full spectrum” of the president’s
views on the space program.  “You have the president being doubting, that space
programs have no political positives, but then later on he talks
about how they are mid-journey and happy we did this,” Porter
said. “He doesn’t want to back away but wants to make it
happen. Do we tie it to national security? How do we sell it the
best way?”  Political Payoff  Porter also said Kennedy was weighing the cost of the
program against the probability that there would be no political
payoff for him while in office.  “If I get re-elected, I’m not -- we’re not -- go to the
moon in my -- in our period, are we?” Kennedy said.  “Ah, no, you’re not going,” Webb replied.  The  NASA  chief emphasized to Kennedy that the moon mission
would enhance “a basic ability in this nation to use science
and very advanced technologies to increase national power -- our
economy all the way through.”  More than looking at the space program for its
technological potential, Kennedy viewed it through a Cold War
prism, telling Webb that if the Soviets didn’t pull off any
breakthroughs, it could be difficult to maintain domestic
support.  Trouble Catching Up  The U.S. had been struggling to catch up to the Soviets. On
April, 12, 1961, Yuri Gagarin had become the first human to
orbit the Earth, a victory for the Russians over the Americans
and a source of embarrassment to Kennedy. A month later, Kennedy
addressed a joint session of Congress with his man-on-the moon
challenge.  In public, Kennedy continued to champion NASA. In a  speech 
at the dedication of the Aerospace Medical Health Center in  San
Antonio ,  Texas , the day before he was killed, Kennedy said:
“This nation has tossed its cap over the wall of space, and we
have no choice but to follow it. Whatever the difficulties, they
will be overcome. Whatever the hazards, they must be guarded
against.”  When astronaut  Neil Armstrong  set foot on the moon on July
20, 1969, the goal was realized.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Tackett in Washington at 
 mtackett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  