-- 
Joplin Confronts Damage, Hunts for Survivors

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-05-25T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/joplin-confronts-scope-of-damage-hunts-for-survivors.html
The aftermath of a tornado that tore
through Joplin, Missouri, in the single deadliest U.S. storm in
at least 60 years has entered another stage for  J. Friedel ,
pastor of  St. Peter the Apostle Catholic Church .  He spent the initial hours after the May 22 twister helping
turn  McAuley Catholic High School’s  cafeteria into a triage
center for the injured, the gym into a shelter for the homeless,
and the chapel into a counseling site for “psychological
trauma.”  Then Friedel met with a parishioner whose husband and 1-
year-old and 5-year-old children are presumed killed after
seeking shelter at a Home Depot that was destroyed. As rescue
workers sifted through rubble for survivors and residents sought
word about missing friends and family, Friedel said Joplin was
bracing for more grim news.  “We know we’re entering into the next phase,” Friedel
said in an interview in the school chapel. “You pray a lot, you
cry a lot, you hug a lot. You just try not to go into shock and
go numb.”  The death toll from the tornado rose to at least 123
yesterday, with more than 750 people treated at area hospitals,
according to a release from the  Missouri  Department of Public
Safety.  Tornado sirens sounded again last night in Joplin as a
another storm moved through the region, driving about 150
residents staying in a Red Cross shelter at  Missouri Southern
State University  to the interior hallways on a lower level of
the school’s athletic center.  ‘Not Again’  “I just thought, ‘Not again,’” said Donald Capps, 79,
standing along a wall with his wife, Helen, 80. Their Joplin
home was destroyed by the tornado three days ago, he said.  The 123 deaths surpass the 116 people killed June 8, 1953,
when a twister hit Flint,  Michigan , in what had been the
greatest toll since modern recordkeeping began in 1950. A 1925
tornado killed 695 people in Missouri, Illinois and  Indiana ,
according to the  National Weather Service .  Emergency crews in Joplin scoured the wreckage of homes and
businesses, looking for survivors after finding nine during the
past two days, said Mark Rohr, the Joplin city manager. Workers
will use rescue dogs to continue sweeps through the tornado’s
path, said Mitch Randles, Joplin’s fire chief.  “We’re still in a search-and-rescue mode,” Rohr told
reporters in an area near the shell of St. John’s Regional
Medical Center that was strewn with crumpled cars, twisted trees
and scattered debris.  Phantom Cries  There have been sporadic reports about cries for help being
heard from rubble piles, although “most of those are turning
out to be false,” Randles said.  Richard Serino, the deputy administrator of the  Federal
Emergency Management Agency , is in Joplin touring the damage in
advance of President Barack Obama’s planned visit to the area
next weekend. Serino and Obama have promised federal assistance
for residents to rebuild.  “We’re going to stay there until every home is repaired,
until every neighborhood is rebuilt, until every business is
back on its feet,” Obama said in a speech in  London  yesterday.  Insurers’ losses from the tornado could reach $1 billion to
$3 billion, based on the death toll and preliminary reports of
damage to buildings, according to an estimate from catastrophe
risk-modeler Eqecat Inc., in an e-mailed statement.  The losses probably will be less than from the April
tornadoes that swept across southeastern states, said  Robert Hartwig , president and chief economist of the  Insurance
Information Institute , a trade group. The April storms caused
$3.7 billion to $5.5 billion in insurance industry losses,
according to an estimate from catastrophe risk-modeler AIR
Worldwide on May 9.  Loss Estimates  “At this point, measuring the losses in the hundreds of
millions would seem probably more appropriate until we can get a
better survey of damage on the ground,” Hartwig said of
insurers’ potential claims from the Joplin tornado. The storm
struck a smaller area than the April cluster, which swept from
 Mississippi  to  Georgia , he said.  The Joplin twister largely spared Friedel’s church. About a
mile away,  St. Mary’s Church  and school were destroyed except
for the cross in front of the building. The church’s pastor,
Justin D. Monaghan, took shelter in a bathtub and survived,
Friedel said.  There’s uncertainty about the whereabouts of many Joplin
residents because the twister flattened St. John’s hospital,
nursing homes and apartment buildings, and there is no master
list of where survivors may have gone, said Bill Benson, a
social-media specialist for the  American Red Cross . Cell phone
reception also has been spotty after the storm, he said.  Safe Lists  As a result, an estimated 200 and 300 people have come to
the Red Cross shelter in the athletic center at  Missouri
Southern State  hoping to see the name of a friend or family
member on lists of safe residents the organization is compiling,
Benson said in an interview.  The number of times loved ones have found a name on one of
those lists is “very much in the single digits,” he said.  Jessie Vallance came to the shelter twice yesterday, hoping
to find information about the missing aunt of her 25-year-old
foster daughter.  “She’s devastated already,” Vallance said in an
interview. “We’re just really hopeful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Joplin at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark
Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  