-- 
Kan Says Renewables to Generate 20% of Japan’s Power Next Decade

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-05-25T16:40:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/kan-says-renewables-to-generate-20-of-japan-s-power-next-decade.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
pledged to generate 20 percent of the nation’s electricity
through renewable forms of energy by the 2020s as the nation
rewrites its power blueprint in the aftermath of the world’s
worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl.  “We will do everything we can to make renewable energy our
base form of power, overcoming hurdles of technology and cost,”
Kan said in the prepared text of a speech in Paris today, before
the Group of Eight summit starting tomorrow in Deauville,  France .
Japan aims to reduce the cost of solar power generation to one
third current levels by 2020 and one-sixth in 2030, he said.  Nuclear safety is among the topics Kan’s expected to
discuss with his global counterparts this week as he continues
to battle the crisis at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  Japan ’s
reliance on nuclear energy has made its transmission grid the
least able among major economies to accommodate power sources
such as wind and solar, according to the  International Energy
Agency .  Kan told French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  that he still
intends to rely on nuclear power once the country has secured
the safety of existing facilities, Tetsuro Fukuyama, deputy
chief cabinet secretary, told reporters today after the two met
in Paris. Japan currently generates about 30 percent of its
electricity through atomic energy and had planned on boosting
that proportion to 50 percent by 2030. Kan said this month that
he will review that goal.  Japan’s power market is less flexible than those in most
industrialized countries partly because nuclear, coal and oil
power plants account for a large part of its generation capacity.
These sources accounted for about 70 percent of total capacity
in 2008, according to the IEA’s latest figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Paris at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg.net  