-- 
Kenyan Wind-Power Project Financing May Be Completed by October

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-05-25T12:57:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/kenyan-wind-power-project-financing-may-be-completed-by-october.html
Lake Turkana Wind Power Ltd. , which
is leading a project in  Kenya  billed as sub-Saharan  Africa ’s
largest wind farm, said it expects to complete a loan accord by
October after securing a “loose” guarantee from the government.  Delays thus far in finalizing the agreement may push back
the start of producing an initial 50 megawatts of electricity by
a year to mid-2012, Chris Staubo, deputy managing director of
the company, said in a phone interview today from Nairobi,
Kenya’s capital. The whole project, once fully installed, will
generate 310 megawatts of power, he said.  A group of lenders, led by  African Development Bank , has
pledged to fund about 70 percent of the estimated 475 million
euros ($668 million) required to build the wind-power plant. The
balance will be funded through equity, Staubo said.  “We are now in the hands of the lenders,” he said.  Kenya’s  Finance Ministry  backed down from a plan to provide
full guarantees on investment in the power industry and chose to
offer partial guarantees instead, Nairobi-based Business Daily
newspaper reported on Nov. 2, without citing anyone.  Kenya Power & Lighting Co., the East African nation’s
monopoly power distributor, agreed to buy 300 megawatts of
electricity over two decades from the project in Lake Turkana,
located in the country’s northwest.  The United Nations Clean Development Mechanism has
registered Lake Turkana as a renewable energy project that’s
eligible for generating carbon credits,  Carbon Africa Ltd. , a
Kenyan company, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The
project may cut emissions by 700,000 metric tons annually,
taking the place of fossil-fuel based electricity generation, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 