-- 
Prince’s Biker Girls, Koons BMW Drive Hong Kong Week of Art

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-05-25T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/koons-bmw-prince-s-biker-babes-drive-hong-kong-week-of-art.html
As many as 50,000 people may converge
on a BMW M3 race car custom painted by  Jeff Koons  and thousands
of other contemporary works as Hong Kong consolidates its
position this week as  Asia ’s place to buy art.  ART HK 11 , the fourth edition of the Hong Kong
International Art Fair, opens to the public from today through
May 29 with works ranging from Pablo Picasso to Andy Warhol to
contemporary Chinese painter Zeng Fanzhi. About 6,000 Veuve
Clicquot-sipping VIPs got first picks at the preview yesterday.  The gathering of 260 galleries from 38 countries is part of
an eight-day spending spree in the city that includes Spring
auctions by Bonham’s and Christie’s International, a wine sale
by New York-based  Acker, Merrall & Condit , and gallery shows
including those by Chinese performance artist Zhang Huan at
Edouard Malingue and American photographer David LaChapelle at
de Sarthe Fine Art.  “You better get some sleep in advance,” said Nick
Simunovic, director of Gagosian’s  Hong Kong  gallery, which is
simultaneously running a one-man show featuring biker girls and
nurses by American artist  Richard Prince  and a booth at ART HK
selling works by artists including  Damien Hirst  and Takashi Murakami.  In four years, ART HK has become a major stop of the global
art fair circuit, closing in on  London ’s Frieze and Art Basel
Miami Beach, which draw crowds of about 60,000 to 70,000.  “The art market tends to follow wealth and the greatest
wealth is being created in Asia,” said fair director Magnus Renfrew.  Roy Lichtenstein  New York ’s Leo Castelli Gallery is back for the second
year, with works by Richard Pettibone and  Roy Lichtenstein . “We
feel that the Hong Kong Art fair is uniquely situated for many
international collectors,” said Jessica Duffett, a spokeswoman
for the gallery.  Works from more than 1,000 artists range from drawings
costing as little as $1,000 to multimillion dollar works by
Picasso,  Jean-Michel Basquiat  and Hirst.  White Cube  sold a work in modeled clay figurines entitled
“Das Kapital is Kaput, Ya, Nein, Dummkopf” by Jake & Dinos Chapman to an Asian collector for 525,000 pounds ($850,000)
within the first hour of the event.  “Mainland Chinese collectors are becoming a potent force
in contemporary art, acting as a magnet for western galleries,”
said Bruno Bischofberger, who has brought his Zurich-based
 gallery  to ART HK for the first time. “China itself is our main
interest,” said Bischofberger, who believes in planting his
gallery’s flag in the east with his best works.  Those include a 10-meter long work by Warhol entitled
“Colored Maos,” selling for about $50 million, and a Jean- Michel Basquiat work priced at $13.5 million.  David Zwirner  sold paintings by Luc Tuymans (with an asking
price of $1.1 million), Daniel Richter and  Yan Pei-Ming , the
gallery said in an e-mailed release.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 