-- 
Nestle Health Chief Says Obesity and Diabetes Are Main Concern

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-05-25T14:05:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/nestle-health-chief-says-obesity-and-diabetes-are-main-concern.html
Obesity and diabetes will probably be
the main medical conditions that need addressing over the next
decade, according to the head of  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s health science
unit, which aims to become world leader in 10 years.  “Obesity is one of the illnesses of the 21st century.”
Luis Cantarell, chief executive officer of the division, said in
a telephone interview today.  Nestle, the world’s largest food company, set up the unit
this year to develop personalized nutrition products. The Swiss
maker of KitKat chocolate bars aims to extend its dominance
beyond coffee, powdered milk and  baby food , yesterday announcing
the acquisition of Prometheus Laboratories Inc., a maker of
treatments for cancer and gastrointestinal illnesses.  As many as 1 billion adults are estimated to be overweight
and another 475 million obese, according to  the International
Obesity Taskforce.  More than 6 percent of the world’s adult
population, or 285 million people, lived with diabetes last
year, the  World Diabetes Foundation  says on its website.  Cantarell said the Nestle unit needs to integrate the three
acquisitions it has made and may make more purchases this year.
Nestle last year bought Vitaflo, a maker of nutritional products
tailored to people with genetically acquired metabolic
disorders. This year, it acquired CM&D Pharma Ltd., which
specializes in the development of products for patients with
 kidney disease , inflammatory bowel disease, and  colon cancer .  The company doesn’t have a specific budget for acquisitions
or the quantity it needs to make, the executive said.  “It is a question of finding the right target, we are
building a new company, using the business we already had.”  Nestle’s health-science unit had sales last year of about
1.6 billion Swiss francs ($1.83 billion), according to
Cantarell, less than 2 percent of the group total.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  