-- 
Netanyahu Heads Home as Applause from Congress Follows Clash with Obama

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-05-25T04:01:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/netanyahu-heads-home-as-applause-from-congress-follows-clash-with-obama.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu wrapped up a five-day U.S. visit that began with a
White House clash with President  Barack Obama  over Palestinian
peacemaking and ended with 29 standing ovations from Congress.  In his address to a joint meeting of the House and the
Senate yesterday, Netanyahu held firm to his rejection of
Obama’s proposal to use boundaries from before the 1967 Six-Day
War combined with land swaps as a starting point for peace
negotiations. Palestinian leaders in turn said they were not
impressed with Netanyahu’s declaration that he would make
“painful” compromises to resolve the conflict.  “He proved tonight we don’t have a partner,” chief
Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erakat said in a telephone interview.
“Netanyahu has to say the magic word, and that is ‘I accept the
1967 borders.’”  While Netanyahu and Obama sought to minimize their
differences following a May 20 Oval Office confrontation over
future borders of a Palestinian state, the prime minister’s trip
produced no new concrete peace initiatives. Members of Congress
demonstrated with frequent applause that they oppose pressuring
 Israel  to accept Obama’s strategy for renewing peace talks.  In his 46-minute speech, Netanyahu said Palestinians need
to accept Israel as a Jewish state. He said he recognizes that
Israel will have to give up parts of its ancestral homeland in
exchange for peace, suggesting that some West Bank settlers may
end up in a future state of  Palestine .  ‘Negotiated’ Borders  “In any peace agreement that ends the conflict, some
settlements will end up beyond Israel’s borders,” Netanyahu, 61,
said. “The precise delineation of those borders must be
negotiated.”  “We will be very generous on the size of a future
Palestinian state,” he said. “But as President Obama said, the
border will be different than the one that existed on June 4,
1967. Israel will not return to the indefensible lines of 1967.”  Netanyahu said Israel is prepared to negotiate with the
Palestinian Authority, but it won’t negotiate with Hamas, which
he called the “Palestinian version of al-Qaeda.” The Islamic
militant group, which won a majority in the Palestinian
parliament in 2006, rules the Gaza Strip and signed a
reconciliation agreement earlier this month with the Fatah party
headed by Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas .  “Tear up your pact with Hamas,” he urged Abbas. “Make peace
with the Jewish state.”  Erakat said the Israeli prime minister offered “the same
old speeches, the same words and the same excuses.”  ‘Unworkable’ Proposals  Arab League Secretary-General Amre Moussa, who is running
for president of  Egypt  in elections to be held later this year,
said on his Twitter account that Netanyahu’s proposals “are
unworkable and do not allow for peace.”  “When Netanyahu says  Jerusalem  will remain Israeli and
will never be given to the Palestinians I say that there will
never be peace,” he said.  Netanyahu, who was heckled by one demonstrator protesting
his policies in the  West Bank  and the Gaza Strip, took credit
for increasing Palestinian economic growth by removing hundreds
of barriers and military roadblocks to the free flow of goods
and people.  “The results have been nothing short of remarkable,” he
said. “The Palestinian economy is booming; it’s growing by more
than 10 percent a year, and Palestinian cities look very
different today than what they looked just a few years ago. They
have shopping malls, movie theaters, restaurants, banks.”  Aid Still Needed  In  New York , a United Nations official yesterday said
Israel’s restrictions on Palestinians in the West Bank still
leave thousands needing international aid.  “Freedom of movement is imperative for Palestinians to
develop their economy and reduce their dependence on
humanitarian assistance,” UN emergency relief coordinator
Valerie Amos told reporters following a four-day visit to the
West Bank and Israel.  Netanyahu said in his speech to Congress that it is
“absolutely vital” that a Palestinian state be demilitarized and
that Israel maintain a military presence along the Jordan River.  He also called on the U.S. to continue sending the
“unequivocal message” that  Iran  must be stopped from developing
nuclear weapons. “Militant Islam could exact an horrific price
from all of us before its eventual demise,” he said.  “The ground is still shifting” in the Middle East, said
Netanyahu, who is scheduled to return home today. “This
historic moment holds the promise of a new dawn of freedom and
opportunity.”  ‘No Better Friend’  “Israel has no better friend than America, and America has
no better friend than Israel,” he said. “We stand together to
defend democracy; we stand together to advance peace; we stand
together to fight terrorism.”  He also congratulated Obama on the killing of al-Qaeda
leader Osama bin Laden.  “Congratulations, America, congratulations, Mr. President.
You got bin Laden. Good riddance,” the prime minister said.  The Israeli leader spoke a day after  Palestinian Authority 
Prime Minister Salam Fayyad underwent cardiac catheterization in
Austin,  Texas , after what spokesman Jamal Zakout said was a
heart attack. In his speech to Congress, he wished Fayyad a
speedy recovery.  ‘Ironclad’ Security Commitment  Speaking on May 22 to the  American Israel Public Affairs
Committee , the country’s largest pro-Israel lobby, Obama offered
assurances of an “ironclad” U.S. commitment to Israel’s security.
He said using the 1967 lines as a starting point doesn’t mean
the borders will be the same as those that existed before the
war, saying they could be adjusted with agreed-upon territorial
exchanges.  “This basic framework for negotiations has long been the
basis for discussions among the parties, including previous U.S.
administrations,” Obama said. “It allows the parties
themselves to account for the changes that have taken place over
the last 44 years, including the new demographic realities on
the ground and the needs of both sides.”  Obama’s proposal, initially made in a speech at the State
Department on May 19, marked the first time a U.S. president has
explicitly backed using the 1967 boundaries as the starting
point for talks that would have Israel cede control of some land
to Palestinians in return for peace and security. He also called
for Palestinian territory to be demilitarized. Obama proposed no
specific steps to restart peace talks.  The 1967 lines define the boundaries of the West Bank, the
 Gaza Strip , east Jerusalem and the  Golan Heights , which were all
captured in the war that year from Jordan, Egypt and  Syria .  In the 44 years since, Israel has built settlements in all
the territories, whose population has grown to more than 500,000
and obscured many of the boundaries between what was sovereign
Israel before and after the June 1967 war. The Arab population
of the West Bank is about 2.5 million.  Israel removed all its settlements from Gaza in 2005. The
borders there are demarcated by a security fence and the
 Mediterranean Sea .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Washington at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  