-- 
New York Man Convicted in Synagogue Plot Asks Judge to Impose 25-Year Term

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-25T15:57:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/new-york-man-convicted-in-synagogue-plot-asks-judge-to-impose-25-year-term.html
A  New York  man convicted in a foiled
plot to bomb New York synagogues and fire heat-seeking missiles
at military planes asked a federal judge to impose a 25-year
prison term and not a life sentence.  James Cromitie  argued in court papers filed today that 25
years, the mandatory minimum term that can be imposed under law,
would be “sufficient but not greater than necessary.” He said
the actions of a confidential informant working with the U.S.
had spurred the plot.  Cromitie and three others --  David Williams ,  Onta Williams ,
and Laguerre Payen -- could face as long as life in prison when
they are sentenced June 7 on the charges, which include
conspiracy to use weapons of mass destruction within the U.S.
and conspiracy to kill U.S. employees. All four men, residents
of  Newburgh , New York, were convicted in October after a trial
in  Manhattan  federal court.  “There is not the slightest doubt in my mind that James
Cromitie could never have dreamed up the scenario in which he
actually became involved,” Cromitie’s lawyer, Kerry Lawrence,
said in the filing.  In 2008, the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  sent an
informant, Shahed Hussain, to mosques posing as a wealthy
Pakistani businessman to interact with suspects in other
terrorism investigations.  Parking Lot Meeting  According to trial testimony, Hussain had attended a
Newburgh mosque for about six months when he was approached in
the parking lot by Cromitie, who introduced himself as Abdul
Rehman.  Hussain testified that Cromitie told him he was unhappy
that Muslims were being killed in  Afghanistan  and  Pakistan  and
expressed a “desire to do something to America.” The FBI
provided the men with an inert missile.  The four were arrested in a coordinated sting operation in
the Riverdale section of the Bronx on the night of May 20, 2009.  Prosecutors say the men planted three devices packed with
the plastic explosive C4 in two cars, parked outside the
Riverdale Temple and adjacent to the Riverside Jewish Center.  The men also planned to fire heat-seeking Stinger missiles
at military planes at an Air National Guard base located at
Stewart International Airport in Newburgh, prosecutors said.  Lawrence said Cromitie didn’t deserve an enhanced term for
attempting to use a weapon that didn’t work and was provided by
the FBI and that the crime wasn’t motivated by religious hatred.  ‘Small-Time Criminal’  “Mr. Cromitie is lifelong, small-time criminal; despite
his conviction in this case, he is not a terrorist,” according
to the filing.  The four were convicted of seven counts, including
acquiring and using anti-aircraft missiles and attempted use of
weapons on the temple, the Jewish center and on the air base.  U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon , who presided over the
trial, on May 3 denied a defense request for a new trial or to
dismiss the indictment based on outrageous government conduct.  The case is U.S. v. Cromitie, 09-cr-00558, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  