-- 
Nigerian Banking Stocks Decline on Reserve Ratio, Interest-Rate Increase

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-05-25T13:10:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/nigerian-banking-stocks-decline-on-reserve-ratio-interest-rate-increase.html
Nigeria ’s index of bank stocks fell
to the lowest in more than six weeks after the central bank
increased lenders’ cash-reserve requirements and raised its
benchmark interest rate for the third time this year.  The  Bloomberg NSE Banking (NGSEB10)  Index of the 10 biggest and most
liquid lenders dropped for the sixth day, retreating 0.9 percent
to 393.15 by 3:04 p.m. in Lagos, the lowest intraday level since
April 8.  The  Central Bank of Nigeria , based in Abuja, increased the
monetary policy rate by half a percentage point to 8 percent
yesterday as it tries to stabilize the naira and bring inflation
below 10 percent. Five of six economists surveyed by Bloomberg
had forecast the rate would be left unchanged. The reserve
requirement increased to 4 percent from 2 percent.  “The policy decision will probably put some pressure on
bank margins, but their loan-to-deposit ratios are not very
high,” Ayo Salami, the London-based chief investment officer at
Duet Asset Management Ltd., said by phone today. “Overall it’s
not great news for the banking sector, but they will recover.
The way the MPC is behaving is quite aggressive, but I think the
Nigerian economy needs it.”  United Bank for Africa Plc (UBA) , Nigeria’s fourth-largest lender
by market capitalization, slumped the maximum daily limit of 5
percent to 6.08 naira, the biggest drop since March 31.  Diamond
Bank Plc (DIAMONDB)  retreated 5 percent, the most since March 2, to 5.92
naira, while  Skye Bank Plc (SKYEBANK)  fell 2.6 percent to 8.2 naira.  Central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi bailed out some of
Nigeria’s 24 lenders and fired eight bank chiefs in 2009 after
loans to equity speculators contributed to 700 billion naira
($4.5 billion) of non-performing debt, according to the Economic
and Financial Crimes Commission. The government rescued lenders
by buying bad debt totaling 2.04 trillion naira through its
Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  