-- 
North Korea’s Kim Jong Il Arrives in Beijing, May Meet Hu, Yonhap Reports

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-25T05:21:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/north-korea-s-kim-jong-il-arrives-in-beijing-may-meet-hu-yonhap-reports.html
North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il 
arrived in Beijing today on the sixth day of a trip to  China ,
indicating a possible meeting with Chinese leaders including
President  Hu Jintao ,  Yonhap News  reported.  A train carrying Kim arrived at a station in the Chinese
capital at 9:00 a.m. local time, Yonhap said. Kim’s entourage is
likely to be heading to the Diaoyutai State Guest House, it said.  About a dozen police vehicles including an armored  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  van and a bus were deployed around the compound’s east
gate, where Kim’s motorcade was seen entering with a similar
police presence during a visit in May 2010. The walled complex
of villas, lakes and willow trees in western Beijing often plays
host to visiting world leaders and company executives.  China invited Kim to help him learn about the country’s
economic restructuring and use that knowledge to revive his own
nation’s economy, Premier  Wen Jiabao  told South Korean President
 Lee Myung Bak  on May 22. Kim’s third trip to his ally and
benefactor in the past year comes as North Korea’s economy is
beset by tighter United Nations sanctions following its second
nuclear test in May 2009.  China shares a common goal with  North Korea  to maintain
ties and “has always provided help,” Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman Jiang Yu told reporters yesterday in Beijing.  Kim, 69, is visiting China as U.S. diplomat Robert King
arrived in North Korea yesterday to assess the country’s food
needs. King, special envoy for North Korean human rights, will
be in Pyongyang until May 28.  Handouts  North Korea has relied on outside handouts to feed its 24
million people since the mid-1990s, when an estimated 2 million
people died from famine. The UN World Food Program launched an
emergency aid effort last month for an estimated 3.5 million
North Koreans.  North Korea’s plea for international donations of food
seems to be “politically motivated” as current food shortages
are not much worse than in previous years, South Korean
Unification Minister Hyun In Taek said on April 25 in  Seoul .  Kim has pledged to put “rice with meat soup” on every
table and build a “strong and prosperous nation” by 2012, the
centennial of the birth of his late father and the country’s
founder, Kim Il Sung.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  