-- 
Norway Government Backs Off Krone Focus

-- B y   J o n a s   B e r g m a n
-- 
2011-05-26T05:39:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/norway-s-stoltenberg-backs-off-on-krone-as-rebound-gains-pace.html
Norway  Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg signaled his government won’t use fiscal policy to
steer the krone as an economic rebound gains pace in the world’s
seventh-largest oil exporter.  Efforts to guide the  exchange rate  should be handled by the
central bank, Stoltenberg said yesterday in an interview from
Paris with Bloomberg Television’s Francine Lacqua.  “Part of their decision making when it comes to setting
the interest rate is that they will also consider the currency
rate and the Norwegian krone,” Stoltenberg said. The recent
weakness in exports “will not affect our recovery because our
economy is now so strong and also stimulated by domestic demand
and increased private consumption,” he said.  The comments contrast with remarks by Finance Minister
Sigbjoern Johnsen, who in March said fiscal policy must remain
“very” tight to curb any krone appreciation that could impede
sales abroad. The krone has gained 18 percent against the dollar
in the past year, hurting exporters including  Europe ’s third-
largest aluminum producer Norsk Hydro ASA.  Norway’s economy grew 0.6 percent last quarter, adjusting
for oil and shipping income. Exports fell 0.5 percent, while
imports rose 10.7 percent as the krone gained 5 percent against
the dollar in the period.  Economic Prospects  The mainland economy will expand 3.3 percent this year and
4 percent in 2012, after growing 2.2 percent in 2010, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said
yesterday. Norway’s accelerating growth rate contrasts with
neighboring  Sweden , where an economic boom is set to slow this
year and next.  The krone has gained amid a surge in the oil price as
turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa continues,
threatening to disrupt supplies. Oil traded in  New York  is up 46
percent in the past 12 months.  The krone gained 0.6 percent against the dollar today to
trade at 5.5147 at 7.28 a.m. in Oslo. It was one of only five
major currencies to advance against the euro.  The krone’s strength has also kept a lid on inflation,
which has lagged behind the central bank’s 2.5 percent target
since July 2009. The currency’s appreciation may limit the
central bank’s scope to continue raising interest rates,
Governor Oeystein Olsen said in a May 20 speech.  “A strong krone damps inflation through a subdued rise in
prices for imported goods and services,” Olsen said.
“Persistent low inflation could curb the rise in the key policy
rate.”  Underlying inflation, which adjusts for energy and taxes,
reached 1.3 percent in April, remaining below the central bank’s
target for a 21st month.  Norges Bank raised its main rate a quarter of a percentage
point this month, its first increase in a year, bringing the
benchmark to 2.25 percent. The bank signaled it will continue
tightening policy to steer Norway’s recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  