-- 
Novartis Properly Warned About Bone Drug Zometa’s Risks, Lawyer Tells Jury

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-05-25T16:18:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/novartis-properly-warned-about-bone-drug-zometa-s-risks-lawyer-tells-jury.html
Novartis AG (NOVN) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest
drugmaker by sales, properly warned a Rhode Island man that
Zometa, its bone-strengthening drug for cancer patients, could
cause jaw damage, a company lawyer argued at the end of a trial.  Karlene Hogan sued Novartis in 2006 claiming her late
husband, Timothy Hogan, developed so-called jaw death as a
result of getting Zometa injections, according to the complaint.
Hogan’s case is the fourth to go to trial over Zometa and
Aredia, another Novartis bone-strengthening drug.  “The labels included the risks that were known and
knowable at that time,” Bruce Berger, a lawyer for Novartis,
told jurors in federal court in  Brooklyn , New York, today in his
closing argument.  Novartis, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , faces about 700
suits over the two medicines. The Hogan case is the fourth to go
to trial. In November, a federal jury in Winston-Salem,  North
Carolina , ruled that Novartis should pay more than $12.8 million
to a North Carolina woman’s family over claims Zometa and Aredia
damaged her jaw. The award was reduced under state law to $1.26
million, including interest.  Other Cases  In October, a New Jersey jury rejected a woman’s claims
that Aredia and Zometa caused her jaw deterioration. In October
2009, a Montana jury ordered Novartis to pay  $3.2 million  in
damages to a cancer patient who made the same claims over the
medicines.  If the jury rules against the company in the Hogan case,
damages will be determined later. There is no possibility of
punitive damages in the case.  Zometa and Aredia are bisphosphonate drugs that doctors
prescribe to alleviate pain in bone-cancer patients. The drugs
also help to strengthen bones to avoid fractures. The patients
who sued contend the drugs can cause users’ jawbones to
deteriorate to the point of causing osteonecrosis of the jaw, or
ONJ.  Timothy Hogan, who lived in Coventry,  Rhode Island , died in
December 2005. He began taking Zometa in March 2003 after being
diagnosed with multiple myeloma, according to the plaintiff’s
court papers. In December 2004, a dental surgeon noticed dead
bone, which by May 2005 he suspected was “potentially
associated” with Hogan’s Zometa treatment, according to court
papers.  Added Warnings  “Mr. Hogan’s jaw problems were caused by his cancer,”
Berger, of Hollingsworth LLP in  Washington , told the jurors.
“Unfortunately, multiple myeloma took his life.”  Novartis added warnings about ONJ in September 2003 after
it got reports about problems, Berger said.  Zometa, apparently beneficial for some patients, also
carries risk of ONJ, particularly for patients who have dental
work done, Daniel Osborn, a lawyer for Karleen Hogan, told
jurors in his closing argument.  “Novartis knew about that risk,” Osborn, of  Manhattan ,
said. “It never warned Tim’s doctors about that risk. Because
Tim’s doctors were never warned, he was never warned.”  Osborn said the company ignored warnings about Zometa it
had before Hogan started taking it.  The trial, presided over by U.S. District Judge Brian M.
Cogan, began May 16.  Suits Consolidated  Some of the hundreds of Novartis lawsuits have been
consolidated before a federal judge in  Tennessee . Others, like
Hogan’s, have been sent back to their home courts for trial.
Still other cases have been heard in state courts around the
country.  Novartis has asked U.S. District Judge James A. Beaty Jr.
in North Carolina to overturn the jury’s verdict in that case.
The plaintiffs have appealed the New Jersey case and, after
losing an appeal to the Montana  Supreme Court , Novartis has
asked the U.S. Supreme Court to review that verdict.  The case is Hogan v. Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp., 06-cv-
260, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  New York 
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 