-- 
Novartis Says Experimental Drug Quells Gout Attacks, Pain

-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 
2011-05-25T13:07:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/novartis-says-experimental-drug-quells-gout-attacks-pain.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  said that an experimental
antibody relieved pain and stopped new attacks of gout better
than a steroid injection in two advanced studies.  The company reported results from clinical trials on more
than 450 patients who didn’t benefit from medicines like non-
steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or couldn’t take them, Basel,
Switzerland-based Novartis said in an e-mailed statement today.  Novartis has asked regulators in the European Union, the
U.S.,  Canada  and  Switzerland  to clear the drug, known as ACZ885,
for gout sufferers with few treatment options. The medicine is
approved in more than 45 countries for a rare disorder called
Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes, or CAPS.  Andrew Weiss ,
an analyst with Bank Vontobel AG in Zurich, estimates gout sales
may reach $700 million a year.  The product represents the first test of a broader Novartis
strategy to “develop a drug in a small indication and then
expand it usage into larger therapeutic areas,” Weiss said in a
note to clients today. He recommends buying Novartis stock.  The drug may be approved in the U.S. by September for gout,
Trevor Mundel, Novartis’s head of  drug development , said in a
telephone interview today. It may garner more than $1 billion in
peak sales with indications for CAPS, gout and juvenile
rheumatoid arthritis, according to Mundel.  The drug improved pain scores by 25 percent to 30 percent
and cut the risk of additional gout attacks by 55 percent to 68
percent compared with a steroid called triamcinolone actinide in
the studies, according to the statement.  Gout, also known as gouty arthritis, affects about 6.1
million Americans, according to the  Arthritis Foundation .
Attacks are triggered by high levels of uric acid in the blood,
which lead crystals to form in the fluid between joints, causing
swelling and inflammation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  