-- 
Nuclear Operators Should End Payments to Waste Fund, Group Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-05-25T13:24:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/nuclear-operators-should-end-payments-to-waste-fund-group-says.html
Nuclear plant operators such as
 Exelon Corp. (EXC)  and  Southern Co. (SO)  would phase out paying into the
$24.6 billion U.S. Nuclear Waste Fund under a proposal for
storing waste from atomic reactors.  Companies that pay the government for disposing of spent
fuel would transfer funds into an escrow account, based on the
number of waste-storage casks they own, according to a report
today by the  Center for Strategic and International Studies  in
 Washington . Under the proposal, reactor owners such as Exelon of
Chicago and Southern of Atlanta may transfer their escrow
account when the spent fuel is moved to another company.  “This approach would convert spent nuclear fuel from a
liability into an asset,” according to the report, which didn’t
identify companies by name.  U.S. nuclear officials are evaluating waste-storage options
after President Barack Obama’s decision in 2009 to cancel the
proposed Yucca Mountain repository in  Nevada . The report also
proposes that U.S. states be allowed to import spent fuel from
other nations, as long as the shipments don’t violate U.S.
nuclear non-proliferation policy.  Nuclear utilities have said they shouldn’t be paying into
the fund, set up in 1982, because the U.S. had abandoned the
national repository. Companies are charged based on the
electricity generated from nuclear power.  The  Blue Ribbon Commission on America’s Nuclear Future , a
15-member panel created by the Obama administration, also is
considering options for storage of nuclear waste. A draft report
is due to the president by July 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 Bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  