-- 
Nuclear Meltdown Feeds Tokyo’s Inertia

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-05-25T01:02:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/nuclear-meltdown-feeds-tokyo-s-inertia.html
Ten weeks after the earthquake and
tsunami, it’s tempting to give Japan a new name: Tepco Nation.  What else is the world to think? Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
shameful mismanagement of the melt down at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear plant has cast a real and figurative radioactive
cloud over Japan’s economy. And yet leaders here still are
coddling a company vilified globally on a level that matches BP
Plc at the height of last year’s Gulf of Mexico oil-well
blowout.  Japan once indulged in the notion that its economy was a
macro version of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , a name associated with
innovation, quality and the nation’s powerful rise from the
ruins of World War II. No one is happy about the Tepco-ization
of Japan’s reputation. Until now, Tepco was a symbol of the
incestuous ties between government and industry. Today, it’s
emblematic of something more dangerous: a leadership vacuum at
the worst possible moment.  Last week, Tepco President Masataka Shimizu took the fall
for decades of doctored safety reports and disregard of seismic
risks that set the stage for the worst nuclear crisis since
Chernobyl. Tepco’s idea of change was to replace him with a 36-
year company veteran.  Investors were quick to pummel Tepco for its cluelessness.
They drove the cost of insuring its debt from default well above
the record prices set by BP during the  oil spill . In doing so,
markets gave little weight to the fact that Japan’s largest
utility has government backing, something BP lacked. This, in
effect, is a no-confidence vote on Japan’s corporate and
political establishments.  Third Recession  It’s a valid verdict. The March 11 disaster did more than
push Japan into its third recession in a decade. It highlighted
how leaders from Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  on down act as if it’s
still business as usual in a capital beset by an extraordinary
crisis.  If Tepco is the poster child of Japan’s culture of
corporate complicity, Toyota illustrates how human error
exacerbated the tsunami, derailing the world’s third-largest
economy. In the first quarter, Toyota’s profit dropped 77
percent from a year earlier, and that’s a preview of what’s to
come nationally.  Damaged Toyota factories, power outages, supply-chain
disruptions, plunging domestic demand and worries overseas that
Japanese goods are contaminated with radiation are weighing on a
company still dusting itself off from the multiple recalls of
2010. Now, as the yen surges, Toyota, which built 45 percent of
its cars in  Japan  last fiscal year, is looking at producing more
of them abroad.  Leadership Vacuum  Meantime, thanks to power cuts, the center of Toyko, once
hyper-modern and neon-sign-crazy, at times now feels like  Asia ’s
answer to Amish country.  Not surprisingly, demands for Kan -- the fourth Japanese
premier since President  Barack Obama  took office -- to step down
are growing louder. His public approval is about 26 percent,
less than half the level after he became prime minister last
June, the Asahi newspaper reported last week.  Kan’s  Democratic Party  of Japan and the opposition  Liberal
Democratic Party  refuse to join hands to rebuild the nation’s
shattered confidence. And there’s still the expectation that the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  will somehow bail out the economy, even though its
stimulus efforts have failed for two decades to end the bust
that followed the bubble years of the 1980s.  The DPJ and LDP are barely on speaking terms. Each party is
more concerned with scoring cheap political points than
revitalizing the nation. The government lacks plans to rebuild,
end the nuclear crisis, avoid credit-rating downgrades, prepare
for an aging population, end deflation and boost
competitiveness. Confidence in the future dwindles further,
reducing both consumption and business investment.  Grand Coalition  Japan needs a grand coalition. The parties should put aside
pettiness and merge for a time, so they can work to restore
normalcy for the nation’s 127 million people. Their most urgent
challenge is to rein in Tepco, perhaps even break it up, before
its failings do more damage to the Japan brand.  Tokyo  needs to recognize that this is not a passing event.
Unless the leaders get to work, Japan’s economic prospects will
dim along with the neon signs around the nation.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Willie Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 