-- 
Obama, Cameron Say Nations Must Proceed at Their Own Pace on Cutting Debt

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-05-25T14:49:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/obama-cameron-say-nations-must-proceed-at-their-own-pace-on-cutting-debt.html
The U.S. and Britain should reduce
debt at a pace that is right for their economic conditions,
President  Barack Obama  and Prime Minister  David Cameron  said, as
they sought common ground on their deficit-cutting plans.  “David and I want to arrive at the same point,” Obama
told a news conference in London today after talks with Cameron.
Governments had to seek prosperity “in a responsible way that
doesn’t mortgage our futures and leave a mountain of debt to
future generations.”  “We may take different paths but we want to end up in the
same place,” Cameron said. “Each country is different and has
different circumstances.”  The comments aim to bridge differences in approach to
tackling the deficits that ballooned following the financial
crisis. The U.K.’s austerity package, which began in earnest
last month, will deliver the deepest spending cuts since World
War II, while Obama’s plans are still being debated.  “In the end we share a very similar set of values about
not wanting to load responsibility for these debts on our
children,” Cameron said.  The Obama administration forecasts the U.S. will have a
cumulative deficit of $8.5 trillion through 2020. Obama has
proposed reducing that by $4 trillion over 12 years through a
combination of spending cuts and tax increases. Republicans in
Congress have put forward their own plan to shrink the
cumulative deficit more than $6 trillion over a decade through
spending cuts alone.  ‘Credible Plans’  The  U.S. Treasury  predicts a deficit of 10.9 percent of
gross domestic product for the year through Sept. 30. The
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development urged the
U.S. today to spell out “credible medium-term plans.”  In Britain, Cameron has vowed to stick to his plans to
eliminate the bulk of the deficit by April 2015, eliminating
310,000 government jobs and slashing departmental budgets.  The opposition Labour party says the government is putting
the recovery at risk by trying to cut the deficit too fast. The
shortfall, which reached a record 11 percent of economic output
in the fiscal year through March 2010, should be cut in half
over the next four years, it says.  “Each country is different,” Obama said. “Each country
is going to have to go through a different painful process. The
pressures each country are under from the world capital markets
are different, the nature of deficits and debts are different
and consequently the sequencing and pace needs to be
different.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net 
Hans Nichols in London at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  