-- 
Obama Says Middle East Peace Requires ‘Wrenching’ Compromise

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-05-25T14:22:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/obama-says-middle-east-peace-requires-wrenching-compromise-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said peace in
the Middle East will be achieved only after compromises by both
 Israel  and the Palestinians and after Hamas accepts Israel’s
right to exist.  “It is going to require wrenching compromise by both
sides,” Obama said during a news conference in  London  with U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron . Hamas, which controls the  Gaza
Strip ,  “has not renounced violence and has not recognized the
state of Israel,” Obama said. “And until they do, it’s very
difficult to expect Israelis to have a serious conversation”
about a peace deal.  Cameron said the U.S. and U.K. are committed to the
security of Israel.  The remarks followed an address to the U.S. Congress
yesterday by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who said
Israel is willing to make “painful compromises” to achieve
Middle East peace, suggesting some of the 300,000 West Bank
settlers may live in a future state of  Palestine .  Netanyahu said he understood that Israel will have to give
up parts of its ancestral homeland in exchange for peace.
Palestinians need to accept Israel as a Jewish state, he said.  “In any peace agreement that ends the conflict, some
settlements will end up beyond Israel’s borders,” Netanyahu
said. “The precise delineation of those borders must be
negotiated.”  ‘Extraordinarily Emotional’ Issues  Obama, speaking in London today, said Palestinians have
obligations, too, and urged the two sides to first negotiate the
boundaries of Jewish and Palestinian states and guarantees about
Israel’s security before confronting “extraordinarily
emotional” questions about Palestinian refugees and  Jerusalem .  Israelis, he said, are “properly concerned” about Hamas’s
alliance with Fatah. Hamas is regarded by the U.S. and Israel as
a terrorist organization.  “It is very difficult for Israelis to sit across the table
from a party that is denouncing your right to exist,” Obama
said. “Ultimately, they have to have confidence that a
Palestinian state is going to stick to whatever bargain is
struck.”  Obama said it was be a “mistake” for the Palestinians to
seek statehood through the  United Nations , because the world
body couldn’t deliver on such a request.  Obama said he was confident the barriers to a peace deal
can be overcome, though it’ll have to be fashioned by both
sides. The U.S. goal remains a safe and secure Israel and “a
sovereign state of Palestine,” he said.  The U.S. president is in the middle of a six-day European
trip that includes a summit with other leaders of the Group of
Eight nations that begins tomorrow in Deauville,  France .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in London at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  