-- 
Obama Seeks to Affirm Trans-Atlantic Ties Ahead of Group of Eight Summit

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-05-25T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/obama-seeks-to-assure-europeans-of-trans-atlantic-ties-before-g-8-summit.html
President  Barack Obama , a day before
attending a meeting of the Group of Eight countries, said the
global leadership of the U.S. and  Europe  remains
“indispensable” even as rapidly growing nations such as  China ,
India and  Brazil  assume greater economic and strategic roles.  In an address to the U.K.’s Parliament in historic
 Westminster Hall  yesterday, at the mid-point of a six-day
European trip, Obama sought to assure Europeans that the trans-
Atlantic relationship hasn’t been superseded by his
administration’s emphasis on ties and trade with  Asia . The
turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa has made the
alliance more crucial than ever, he said.  “The time for our leadership is now,” Obama said. “Even
as more nations take on the responsibilities of global
leadership, our alliance will remain indispensable to the goal
of a century that is more peaceful, more prosperous and more
just.”  The U.S. president is seeking to demonstrate unity with
European allies ahead of the G-8 summit in Deauville,  France ,
amid potential tension over the U.S. role in the military
campaign in Libya and differences in dealing with pressure on
economic recovery from the sovereign-debt crisis.  He also sought to reassure trans-Atlantic partners that the
U.S. remains committed to the alliance even as his
administration has cultivated relationships with Asian nations.
In a 2000 speech in  Japan , the Hawaiian-born Obama described
himself as “America’s first Pacific president.”  Assuring Europe  “I think he did lay to rest this strong feeling in Europe
that the president is more interested in the Asia-Pacific
region,” said Heather Conley, director of the Europe Program at
the  Center for Strategic and International Studies  in
 Washington .  In the speech and at an earlier news conference with U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron , Obama sidestepped differences
within the NATO alliance over the military campaigns in  Libya 
and  Afghanistan  and the challenges of coordinating economic
policy with European governments. That hoped-for harmony on
economic issues may be tested at the Group of Eight summit,
which begins today.  “There may have been nuances on how you deal with Libya
and Afghanistan,” said Brooks Newmark, a U.S.-born Conservative
Party lawmaker. “But these things are dealt with in private and
you move forward.”  Changing Nature  Obama told the members of Parliament that the U.S.-European
alliance must adapt to changes in the global economy to maintain
leadership. Emerging nations are growing so quickly because they
are moving toward market-based economies, he said.  The strength of the economies of Brazil, China,  India  and
other Asian and Latin American nations caused the  United Nations 
to upgrade its forecast of global economic growth for 2011 and
2012. The world economy will expand 3.3 percent this year, up
from the January forecast of 3.1 percent, while the 2012
forecast has been raised to 3.6 percent from 3.5 percent.  The U.S. and the U.K. have “an inherent advantage”
because both nations long have embraced the free-enterprise
system that has given rise to innovation and entrepreneurship,
Obama said.  “It was the  United States  and the United Kingdom, and our
democratic allies, that shaped a world in which new nations
could emerge and individuals could thrive,” he said.  New Era  Obama said a “new era of cooperation” among the allies
includes joint approaches to regulating financial markets and a
commitment to reducing government debt.  “Having come through a terrible recession, our challenge
today is to meet these obligations while ensuring that we’re not
consuming -- and hence consumed with -- a level of debt that
could sap the strength and vitality from our economies,” he
said.  At the news conference just hours earlier, Obama said the
coordinated approach he advocates doesn’t mean marching in
lockstep on budgets and debt.  “The pressures that each country are under from world
capital markets are different,” he said with Cameron at his
side. “The nature of the debt and deficits are different.”  More than a year after European policy makers approved a
750 billion euro ($1.1 trillion) bailout blueprint to stem the
sovereign debt crisis, bond yields in debt-laden peripheral
countries linger near record highs. The Obama administration
forecasts that the U.S. will have a cumulative deficit of $8.5
trillion through 2020.  G-8 Summit  The two-day G-8 summit will likely result in an agreement
drawing from Obama’s address last week that framed U.S. policy
in the context of pro-democracy movements sweeping through the
Middle East and North Africa, said Michael Froman, the
president’s deputy national security adviser for international
economic affairs.  Obama will ask G-8 member countries to support “financial
stabilization, modernization and reform of the economies in the
region,” Froman said. The president has proposed $2 billion in
U.S. assistance for Egypt, $1 billion in loan guarantees through
the  Overseas Private Investment Corporation  and cancellation of
$1 billion in debt, about a third of what Egypt owes the U.S.  Ben Rhodes , Obama’s deputy national security adviser for
strategic communications, said the U.S. has been talking with G-
8 partners about ideas regarding “some of the reorientation of
institutional support to the Middle East and North Africa.”  The president plans separate meetings with French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy , Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  and Japanese
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , Rhodes said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in London at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in London at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  