-- 
Obama Tells Parliament That U.S., Europe Retains Leadership

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-05-25T18:02:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/obama-tells-parliament-that-u-s-europe-retains-leadership-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
and  Europe  must maintain leadership in the world even as rapidly
growing nations such as  China ,  India  and  Brazil  assume greater
economic and strategic roles.  The rise of other centers of power doesn’t diminish the
influence of the U.S. and the U.K. in fostering democracy and
growth, he said.  “The time for our leadership is now,” Obama said in an
address to the U.K.’s Parliament in historic  Westminster Hall .
“Even as more nations take on the responsibilities of global
leadership, our alliance will remain indispensable to the goal
of a century that is more peaceful, more prosperous and more
just.”  Obama, at the mid-point of a six-day European trip, sought
to assure trans-Atlantic partners that the U.S. remains
committed to the alliance even as his administration has put
greater emphasis on cultivating ties and trade with  Asia . In a
2000 speech in  Japan , the Hawaiian-born Obama described himself
as “America’s first Pacific president.”  “I think he did lay to rest this strong feeling in Europe
that the president is more interested in the Asia Pacific region
than in transatlantic relations,” Heather Conley, director of
the Europe Program at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies in  Washington , said in a telephone interview.  Sidestepping Differences  In the speech and at an earlier news conference with U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron , Obama sidestepped differences
within the NATO alliance over the military campaigns in Libya
and  Afghanistan  and the challenges of coordinating economic
policy with European governments. That hoped-for harmony on
economic issues may be tested at a meeting of the Group of Eight
nations that begins tomorrow in Deauville, France.  “There may have been nuances on how you deal with  Libya 
and Afghanistan,” Brooks Newmark, a U.S.-born Conservative
Party lawmaker, said. “But these things are dealt with in
private and you move forward.”  Obama told members of Parliament that the U.S.-European
alliance must adapt to changes in the global economy to maintain
leadership. Emerging nations are growing so quickly because they
are moving toward market-based economies, he said.  The strength of the economies of Brazil, China, India and
other Asian and Latin America nations caused the United Nations
to upgrade its forecast of global economic growth for 2010 and
2011. The world economy will expand 3.3 percent this year, up
from the January forecast of 3.1 percent, while the 2012
forecast has been raised to 3.6 percent from 3.5 percent.  ‘Inherent Advantage’  The U.S. and U.K. have “an inherent advantage” because
both nations long have embraced the free enterprise system that
has given rise to innovation and entrepreneurship, Obama said.  “It was the  United States  and the  United Kingdom , and our
democratic allies, that shaped a world in which new nations
could emerge and individuals could thrive,” he said.  Obama said a “new era of cooperation” among the allies
includes joint approaches to regulating financial markets and a
commitment to reducing government debt.  “Having come through a terrible recession, our challenge
today is to meet these obligations while ensuring that we’re not
consuming -- and hence consumed with -- a level of debt that
could sap the strength and vitality from our economies,” he
said.  Approach to Debt  At the press conference just hours earlier, Obama said the
coordinated approach he advocates doesn’t mean marching in
lockstep on budgets and debt.  “The pressures that each country are under from world
capital markets are different,” he said with Cameron at his
side. “The nature of the debt and deficits are different.”  More than a year after European policy makers approved a
750 billion-euro ($1.1 trillion) bailout blueprint to stem the
sovereign debt crisis, bond yields in debt-laden peripheral
countries linger near record highs. The Obama administration
forecasts the U.S. will have a cumulative deficit of $8.5
trillion through 2020.  Obama’s speech was the first delivered by a U.S. president
to the House of Commons and the House of Lords in Westminster
Hall, which was built between 1097 and 1099.  It followed last night’s state dinner at  Buckingham Palace 
at which Obama and first lady  Michelle Obama  were the guests of
honor of Queen Elizabeth II.  At the dinner, Obama thanked the people of the U.K. for the
“solidarity” they have shown with the U.S., especially in the
decade since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  “From that day to this, you have been our closest partner
in our struggle to protect our people from terrorism attacks and
violent extremism, despite very heavy sacrifices here,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in London at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in London at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  