-- 
Obama Says U.S. Allies Won’t Set ‘Artificial Timeline’ for Libya Campaign

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-05-25T14:25:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/obama-says-u-s-allies-won-t-set-artificial-timeline-for-libya-campaign.html
President  Barack Obama  appealed for
patience in the effort to remove  Muammar Qaddafi  from power and
said allied leaders won’t set a timeline for completing military
operations in Libya.  The U.S. and its allies in the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization are making “enormous progress” and won’t let up
until the Libyan leader is deposed, Obama said during a news
conference today in London with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron . He ruled out putting troops on the ground there.  “This is going to be a slow, steady process in which we’re
able to wear down the regime forces,” Obama said. “We have not
put forward any artificial timeline in terms of how long this
will take.”  The NATO campaign in  Libya  along with the broader upheaval
in the Middle East and North Africa were among the primary
topics discussed by Obama and Cameron as the U.S. president
switched from royal ceremony to statecraft while in the U.K. at
the midpoint of a six-day trip to Europe. Obama will address
Parliament in Westminster Hall later, and tomorrow he leaves for
a summit with other leaders of the Group of Eight nations in
Deauville,  France .  The two leaders also discussed shrinking government debt
levels in both countries, the battle against terrorism, and
peace negotiations between  Israel  and the Palestinians.  NATO Strikes  Having taken part in the initial airstrikes against forces
loyal to Qaddafi, the U.S. will continuing providing support for
the NATO-led operations using America’s “unique” capabilities,
he said.  Obama, 49, said he and Cameron agree “that we cannot put
boots on the ground in Libya,” which puts some “inherent
limitations” on how quickly allied forces can accomplish their
goals.  During their meeting at 10 Downing Street during the
president’s first state visit to  Europe , Obama and Cameron
discussed ways to intensify the pressure on Qaddafi to step down
after four decades in power and how to give greater support to
rebels.  Cameron, 44, said that he and the president agree that the
“heat” must be turned up on Qaddafi and members of his regime.  “It is impossible to imagine a future for Libya with
Qaddafi still in power. He must go.” Cameron said he’s pleased
with progress, citing the rebel liberation of Misrata and the
growth of the transitional council in the country, which has
Africa’s largest oil reserves.  Afghanistan Transition  On another allied military campaign, Obama said he and
Cameron agreed on the need for the process of political
reconciliation to begin in  Afghanistan .  “Our nations have a long-term interest in ensuring that
Afghanistan never again becomes a launching pad for attacks
against our peoples,” Obama said.  The U.K. has about 10,000 troops in Afghanistan, the second
biggest contingent after the U.S. Obama has set a goal of
beginning the withdrawal of some of the 100,000 U.S. military
personnel there beginning in July.  “We are in a position now to transition, to start
transitioning, to an Afghan-led security process,” Obama said.  Britain may begin pulling troops from Afghanistan as soon
as next year amid public concern at home about the military
campaign’s objectives. During a visit to Afghanistan last year
Cameron said recent progress by allied forces suggests NATO’s
plan to hand control of the country’s security to its own army
by 2014 is achievable.  Syrian Uprising  The president also addressed turmoil in  Syria , expressing
support for EU sanctions and said the U.S. is increasing
pressure on President Bashar Al-Assad and other top officials.  Syrian authorities have killed more than 1,000 people
during two and half months of protests, Mahmoud Merhi, head of
the Arab Organization for Human Rights, and Ammar Qurabi, head
of Syria’s National Organization for Human Rights, have said.  Before taking questions, Obama and Cameron attended a
barbeque for U.S. and U.K. service members at the prime
minister’s office.  The news conference followed last night’s state dinner at
 Buckingham Palace  at which Obama and first lady  Michelle Obama 
were the guests of honor of  Queen Elizabeth II .  At the dinner, Obama thanked the people of the U.K. for the
“solidarity” they have shown with the U.S., especially in the
decade since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  “From that day to this, you have been our closest partner
in our struggle to protect our people from terrorism attacks and
violent extremism, despite very heavy sacrifices here,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  London  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net 
Hans Nichols  in London at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bob Drummond at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net  