-- 
U.S. Comptroller to Consult Consumer Bureau on Pre-Emption

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-05-25T19:23:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/occ-proposes-dodd-frank-rule-limiting-pre-emption-of-state-laws.html
The Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency issued a proposed rule requiring subsidiaries of
national banks to follow state  consumer protection laws .  In a  notice  of proposed rulemaking issued today, the OCC
said the agency will consult with the new Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau prior to making the decision to pre-empt some
state consumer laws.  Some congressional Democrats and consumer advocates have
pushed for curbs on the OCC’s power to pre-empt state laws for
national banks. A compromise agreement reached in Congress
during negotiations over the Dodd-Frank Act allowed the OCC to
retain much of its pre-emption authority.  Under the legal doctrine, nationally chartered banks gain
exemption from some state laws. Critics complain that the OCC
has blocked attempts by state authorities to regulate large
banks.  The  American Bankers Association  has said that Dodd-Frank
didn’t change the legal standard for pre-emption although it did
change the process the OCC will use to preempt a state rule.  “There is no question that Dodd-Frank made considerable
changes in preemption, but it did not change the standard of
pre-emption,” said Raymond Natter, a lawyer with Barnett Sivon
& Natter P.C. and a former OCC deputy chief counsel. His firm
represents financial institutions with national charters.  “There are changes in the scope, process, consultation
requirements and a prohibition on so-called field preemption,
which was claimed by the Office of Thrift Supervision,” Natter
said.  State  Attorneys General   The rule will also require the OCC to recognize the
authority of state attorneys general to enforce any non-
preempted state laws against nationally chartered banks.  The changes in the new rule are inadequate and will hurt
consumers, said Arthur Wilmarth, a professor at George
Washington University Law School in Washington.  “They haven’t really changed the consultation process or
their scope at all with regards to existing regulations,”
Wilmarth said. “This will only apply to new rules that would go
beyond what they already have in their books.”  “It is certainly bad news for states who have passed
consumer protection laws and would like to apply those laws
evenhandedly to all lenders doing business within their
borders,” Wilmarth said.  The rule will be published in the Federal Register tomorrow
and calls for a 30-day comment period, the OCC said today in a
press release.  Assessment Schedule  The proposal also calls for a single assessment schedule
for national banks and federally chartered savings associations,
the OCC said.  Dodd-Frank required the Office of Thrift Supervision to
close and be absorbed into the OCC in July. Thrifts previously
regulated by the OTS will now be regulated by the OCC unless
they change their charters.  “Banks and thrifts would be subject to identical
assessment methodologies, rates, fees and payment due dates,”
the OCC said. “While some Federal savings associations would
pay more under the OCC assessment rule, others would pay less.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  