-- 
Lockheed Sees F-35 Lifetime Operating Cost Below $1 Trillion

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-05-25T20:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/lockheed-sees-f-35-lifetime-operating-cost-below-1-trillion.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  said the cost
to operate and maintain the proposed F-35 Joint Strike Fighter
fleet during its lifetime may be far lower than the Pentagon’s
$1 trillion estimate.  “We believe we can beat that by a fairly substantial
amount,” Tom Burbage, executive vice president of Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed said in an interview. He declined to
specify a figure.  The $1 trillion estimate, sent to Congress April 15, is an
inflation-adjusted figure for operating and maintaining the
fleet of more than 2,400 airplanes through 2065, based on
variables such as locations of the F-35 bases and the order of
deployment. Changing the pace and order in which bases are
activated, for example, may affect the estimate, Burbage said.  The Pentagon, in its 2010 Selected Acquisition Report to
Congress, said the F-35 fleet may cost as much as $1 trillion to
maintain, based on 8,000 hours of flying time for each of the
2,443 airplanes over a 30-year period. The Air Force, Navy and
Marine Corps are receiving their own variations of the aircraft,
with the last in the fleet to be produced in 2035.  That estimate drew criticism from U.S. lawmakers last week
including Senator  John McCain , the Arizona Republican who’s the
ranking member on the Senate Armed Services committee.  “This jaw-dropping amount may be about twice as much as
the cost to maintain other roughly comparable aircraft,” McCain
said at the May 19 hearing. “We need to know that the program
is going to bring that number down.”  Pentagon officials including  Ashton Carter , the top weapons
buyer, and Vice Admiral David Venlet, the F-35 program manager,
have said their highest priority is to prepare a more accurate
estimate of the maintenance costs for the fleet.  Carter also has said the Pentagon is conducting a study of
the production costs of the F-35 including costs incurred by
Lockheed’s subcontractors such as  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , which
makes the plane’s radar, and BAE Systems Plc, which builds the
aft fuselage, the tail and wing tips.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  