-- 
OECD Cautions U.S., Japan on Deficits, Sticks to Global Growth Forecasts

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-05-25T13:15:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/oecd-cautions-u-s-japan-on-deficit-reduction-maintains-global-forecasts.html
The U.S. and  Japan  must set out plans
to reduce their budget deficits as the global economy expands,
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said.  The budgetary efforts needed to “merely stabilize debt are
substantial for many countries,” OECD Chief Economist Pier Carlo Padoan wrote in the Paris-based organization’s annual
economic outlook published today. “The  United States  and Japan,
for which such requirements are the largest, have yet to produce
credible medium term plans” and other countries need to specify
how they’ll achieve their goals.  The remarks underline growing concern about debt
sustainability in developed countries even as the global economy
expands in the wake of its worst recession since World War II.
The OECD maintained its forecasts for the world economy to
expand 4.2 percent this year and 4.6 percent in 2012, and raised
them for U.S. growth in 2011 even as it warned of stagflation in
some economies.  “The global recovery is becoming self-sustaining and more
broad based,” Padoan said. Even so, he said spiraling deficits
in the U.S. and Japan and higher energy prices are among the
threats to the recovery, while OECD Secretary General Angel Gurria said at the report’s presentation in Paris that downside
risks “predominate,” including  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “A concern is that, if downside risks interact, their
cumulative impact could weaken the recovery significantly,
possibly triggering stagflationary developments in some advanced
countries,” Padoan said.  Deficit Efforts  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is trying to reach
an agreement with lawmakers on how to cut deficits over the
long-term as part of a plan to raise the legal debt limit from
its current level of $14.294 trillion. The Treasury predicts a
deficit of 10.9 percent of gross domestic product for the year
through Sept. 30.  “There is no consensus on fiscal-consolidation strategies,
which casts doubt on the extent” to which any proposed deficit-
cutting plan will be adopted, the OECD said. “Further progress
to unwind fiscal imbalances beyond 2012 would require ambitious
reforms of the tax system and entitlement spending,” similar to
proposals by Obama’s  National Commission on Fiscal
Responsibility and Reform , it added.  U.S. Debt  U.S. government debt  will rise to 101.1 percent of GDP by
the end of the year and 107 percent in 2012, according to the
OECD, which advises its 34 member governments on economic
policy. The organization raised its forecast for U.S. growth to
2.6 percent in 2011 from 2.2 percent predicted in November, and
left its expectations for 2012 growth unchanged at 3.1 percent.  In Japan, where the government is rebuilding cities
destroyed in March by the earthquake and tsunami, finding ways
to reduce the shortfall in the medium term is also urgent, the
OECD said. Japan’s debt load will be 212.7 percent of GDP at the
end of this year and 218.7 percent in 2012, and its economy will
shrink 0.9 percent this year before recovering with 2.2 percent
growth in 2012, the OECD said.  “It is important to finance reconstruction spending by
shifting expenditures and increasing revenues,” according to
the report. “A detailed and credible fiscal-consolidation
program, including tax increases and spending cuts large enough
to achieve the government’s target for stabilizing the public
debt ratio by 2020 is a priority.”  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has already pledged 4 trillion yen
($49 billion) toward rebuilding efforts after the quake killed
or left 24,000 missing. Economic growth will probably rebound to
about 4.5 percent in the second half of 2011 as domestic demand
strengthens and inflation, which will be pushed up by higher
energy prices, will resume declines next year, the OECD said.  European Debt  The euro area, where the debt load will climb to 95.6
percent of GDP this year and 96.5 percent in 2012, needs to
squeeze deficits as well, though the 17-member region should
also look for ways to bolster economic growth. The OECD raised
its forecast for euro-area GDP growth to 2.0 percent from 1.7
percent, and maintained its 2012 predication at 2 percent.  “Prolonged fiscal consolidation is needed in most” euro
countries, the OECD said. “Reforms of labor and product markets
are needed to facilitate economic rebalancing and to boost long-
term growth,” it said.  Greece, Ireland and  Portugal , which are receiving financial
aid from their euro-region peers and the  International Monetary
Fund , have three options for returning to sustainable-debt
levels and ending the sovereign crisis, the OECD said.  Other euro-area governments could continue to finance the
countries or they could opt to “reschedule the existing stock
of debt,” the OECD said. Any such extension of repayments would
have to be “over a very extended period and at low interest
rates to restore fiscal sustainability,” the OECD said.  Third Option  “A third option is to reduce the size of government
liabilities in line with current market expectations,” the OECD
said. “In practice, however, the use of this option is severely
circumscribed by the need” to “avoid a breakdown of the
domestic financial sectors” and prevent contagion to other
countries, it added.  The OECD commended the U.K. for its detailed deficit-
cutting plan, which it estimates will eliminate the budget gap
by 2016 after it peaked at 11 percent of output in 2009.  “The current fiscal consolidation strikes the right
balance,” the OECD said. “Further reforms to improve public-
sector efficiency and increasing the effective  retirement age 
would mitigate fiscal pressures,” it said.  U.K. Forecasts  The organization trimmed its U.K. growth prediction for
this year to 1.4 percent instead of the 1.5 percent it forecast
in March. The U.K. economy will expand 1.8 percent in 2012, down
from a previous projection of 2 percent, it said.  Growth in  China , the world’s second-largest economy, will
be about 9 percent instead of the 10 percent pace predicted in
November. An inflation rate of about 6.75 percent currently
needs to be reduced, the OECD said.  To counter emerging inflationary pressures, the Swiss
central bank should start raising borrowing costs this year, the
OECD said. Policy makers in  Poland  and the  Czech Republic , the
largest eastern members of the European Union, also have scope
to raise  interest rates  as their economies recover, it added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   stirling1@bloomberg.net . 