-- 
Crude Rises to Highest in Two Weeks on U.S. Fuel Demand; SocGen Sees $106

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-05-26T08:21:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/oil-trades-near-a-two-week-high-as-u-s-distillate-fuel-supplies-decline.html
Oil traded near a two-week high in
 New York  on signs of increased U.S. fuel demand after a
government report showed inventories of diesel and heating oil
fell in the world’s biggest crude-consuming nation.  Futures reached their highest since May 11 today after the
Energy Department said yesterday that U.S. distillate supplies
declined 2.04 million barrels to 141.1 million last week, the
lowest since April 2009. Fuel demand climbed 2.2 percent. Oil
may rise to $106 a barrel in coming weeks as prices mirror an
early-May pullback in 2010 that launched a rally in the rest of
that year, Societe Generale SA said.  “People are optimistic about a recovery even though the
economics suggest otherwise,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing
director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, who
predicted oil will average $100 this year. “The fact that oil
hasn’t broken through $95 on the downside is the key.”  Crude for July delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
was at $101.22 a barrel at 9:14 a.m.  London  time, down 10 cents,
after gaining as much as 58 cents to $101.90. Brent crude for
July settlement was at $114.73 a barrel, down 23 cents, on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. The contract yesterday
climbed $2.40, or 2.1 percent, to $114.93, the highest
settlement since May 10.  China  Power Shortages  “Distillates stole center stage from gasoline on worries
about surging demand in China and  India ,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago .  China may face power shortages of 30 gigawatts this summer,
the China Electricity Council said last month. The government
suspended diesel exports to increase supplies for use in power
generation.  U.S. distillate consumption was the highest since the week
ended April 15, according to the Energy Department. Total fuel
demand climbed 2.2 percent to 18.9 million barrels a day.
Refineries operated at 86.3 percent of capacity, the most since
Jan. 7.  Heating oil futures in New York climbed for a third day,
gaining as much as 1.97 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $3 a gallon.  U.S. gasoline stockpiles increased 3.79 million barrels to
209.7 million, the biggest addition since February, according to
the report. They were forecast to rise 450,000 barrels,
according to the median of 14 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. Gasoline use dropped 0.3 percent to 9.03 million
barrels a day.  Fibonacci Support  Crude oil supplies gained 616,000 barrels to 370.9 million.
Stockpiles were forecast to decrease by 1.5 million barrels,
according to the survey.  Oil in New York, heading for the first monthly decline
since August, has rebounded from its Fibonacci support near $95
a barrel, a level based on weekly price swings over the past
year, according to Stephanie Aymes, a cross-commodity technical
analyst at  Societe Generale . Crude will probably continue to
trade “sideways” in coming weeks before climbing to $106, the
next Fibonacci retracement level, she said.  Oil also gained after the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development raised its forecast for U.S. growth
this year. The economy will expand 2.6 percent, up from a
November estimate of 2.2 percent, the organization said in its
annual economic outlook published yesterday. The OECD maintained
its forecasts for the world economy to expand 4.2 percent this
year and 4.6 percent in 2012.  Schork Report  The dollar declined, making commodities more attractive as
an investment. The Dollar Index, a measure of the greenback
against six major currencies, fell as much as 0.6 percent today,
the biggest decline since April 20.  The  Bank of England  may raise  interest rates  after its
economy expanded in the first quarter, which may support  oil
prices , according to Stephen Schork, Villanova, Pennsylvania-
based analyst at The Schork Group Inc.  “This would put pressure on the Bank of England to ramp up
interest rates which would, in turn, increase the strength of
sterling,” he said in today’s Schork Report. “A stronger
sterling implies a weaker dollar, and a weaker dollar implies…
that’s right, higher crude oil prices.”  Brent crude , the European benchmark contract, traded at a
premium of $13.47 a barrel to U.S. futures, compared with $13.61
yesterday. The difference between front-month contracts in
London and New York surged to a record $19.54 on Feb. 21. It
averaged 76 cents last year.  Brent has advanced 22 percent this year as unrest in the
Middle East and North Africa toppled leaders in Tunisia and
 Egypt  and spread to Libya, Iran and  Syria . Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh said fighting could drag the country into civil
war and warned that those who seek to disrupt security would be
met with force.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
leave production quotas unchanged at its June 8 meeting in
Vienna because there is enough oil to meet demand,  Iraq ’s Deputy
Prime Minister Hussain al-Shahristani said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  