-- 
Crude Oil Rises as U.S. Distillate Fuel Supplies Decline to a Two-Year Low

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-05-25T19:46:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/oil-falls-from-one-week-high-in-new-york-as-u-s-gasoline-stockpiles-surge.html
Crude oil climbed to a two-week high
after a report showed that U.S. inventories of diesel and
heating oil tumbled to the lowest level in more than two years
as consumption increased.  Oil gained 1.7 percent as the Energy Department said
distillate-fuel stockpiles fell 2.04 million barrels to 141.1
million last week. Demand for the fuel advanced 10 percent to
3.98 million barrels a day, the report showed. Gasoline
stockpiles rose 3.79 million barrels to 209.7 million, the
biggest addition since February.  “We’re shrugging off the largest gain in gasoline stocks
in a long time because of the big drop on the distillate side,”
said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The market has been range-bound and
appears to be trying to decisively break out above $100.”  Crude oil for July delivery rose $1.73 to $101.32 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement
since May 10. Prices have gained 47 percent in the past year.  Heating oil for June delivery increased 7.06 cents, or 2.4
percent, to end the session at $2.9803 a gallon in New York.
Gasoline for June delivery advanced 2.34 cents, or 0.8 percent,
to settle at $3.0162 a gallon on the Nymex.  Supplies of distillate fuel were projected to be unchanged
last week, according to the median of 14 analyst responses in a
Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline stockpiles were forecast to rise
450,000 barrels.  Distillate Demand  Distillate consumption was at the highest level since the
week ended April 15, the report showed. Gasoline use dropped 0.3
percent to 9.03 million barrels a day. Total fuel demand climbed
2.2 percent to 18.9 million barrels a day.  “It used to be that gasoline would lead the complex in
spring as we approached the summer driving season, and heating
oil would take the lead as we approached winter,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas Commodity Futures Inc. in New
York. “There is no such thing as seasonality anymore. Things
have grayed dramatically in the last couple years.”  Crude oil supplies rose 616,000 barrels to 370.9 million.
Stockpiles were forecast to decrease by 1.5 million barrels,
according to the survey.  Refineries operated at 86.3 percent of capacity, up 3.1
percentage points from the previous week and the most since the
week ended Jan. 7. A 0.5 percentage-point gain was projected in
the Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Extra Incentive’  “Refineries are coming out of maintenance programs and are
really boosting runs,” said  Michael Lynch , president of
Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts . “The sharp drop in crude  oil prices  recently may
have given refiners an extra incentive to increase operations.”  Futures touched a 31-month high of $114.83 a barrel May 2
in New York. They slipped as the dollar strengthened and crude-
oil stockpiles rose.  Oil also increased after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said
yesterday that it’s turning “more bullish” on raw materials as
demand improves. Goldman Sachs suggested buying crude, copper
and zinc in a reversal of last month’s call to sell commodities.  “The market was pricing in a global growth story up until
February, then it shifted into a supply-shock story and then
within the last week or two it shifted back into a demand-driven
story,”  Jeffrey Currie , head of commodity research at Goldman
Sachs in  London , said yesterday in an interview. “We are
substantially more confident when the market is focused on
demand growth.”  OECD Forecast  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
climbed 1.8 percent to 696.77, the highest level since May 10.
All of the commodities increased.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
maintained its forecasts for the world economy to expand 4.2
percent this year and 4.6 percent in 2012, and raised its
expectations for U.S. growth to 2.6 percent this year from 2.2
percent predicted in November.  “The global recovery is becoming self-sustaining and more
broad-based,” OECD Chief Economist Pier Carlo Padoan said in
the Paris-based organization’s annual economic outlook published
today. The 30-member OECD represents developed countries.  Brent crude  for July settlement increased $2.40, or 2.1
percent, to end the session at $114.93 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
leave production quotas unchanged at its June 8 meeting in
Vienna because there is enough oil to meet demand,  Iraq ’s Deputy
Prime Minister Hussain al-Shahristani said.  No Shortage  “Looking at the figures now, I don’t see any shortage on
the world market,” al-Shahristani said in a Bloomberg
Television interview from  Baghdad  today. “OPEC will be
reviewing those figures, and I expect there will be a rollover.
If demand is where it is now, I don’t see any point in
increasing production.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 549,556
contracts as of 3:15 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 569,773
yesterday, 17 percent below the average of the past three
months. Open interest was 1.52 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 