-- 
Asian Investors Dominate Central London’s New-Homes Market for First Time

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-05-26T08:44:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/hong-kong-singaporean-chinese-buyers-dominate-london-s-new-homes-market.html
Asian buyers accounted for the
majority of new home purchases in central London for the first
time as they took advantage of the pound’s weakness and avoided
rising prices at home,  Knight Frank  LLP said.  The share of deals increased to 59 percent in the six
months through April from 48 percent a year earlier, the London-
based real-estate broker said in a report today. Most of the
Asian purchasers were based in  Hong Kong  or  Singapore , where
residential property prices have risen to records this year.  “The  exchange rate  is crucial,” Sebastian Warner, a
partner at the firm, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“On the other side of the coin, their markets are incredibly
hot.”  Asian investors, deterred by inflated property prices and
curbs on speculation at home, are targeting markets such as the
U.K. that may offer better returns. They acquired about 120
million pounds ($194 million) of  London  real estate in the past
two months, with most purchases in the 400,000-pound to 1
million-pound range, Knight Frank estimates.  The pound has lost about 25 percent of its value against a
basket of currencies since the housing market peaked in the
third quarter of 2007. The  Singapore dollar  has appreciated by
more than 50 percent against the U.K. currency in that time.  Hong Kong buyers acquired more homes than any other Asian
country, accounting for 24 percent of all purchases of newly
built properties. Singapore was second with 12 percent and
Mainland China third with a 10 percent share.  Luxury Homes  In contrast, the proportion of acquisitions by U.K buyers
dropped to about 35 percent in the six-month period from 40
percent a year earlier, Knight Frank said. London luxury-home
prices rose at the fastest rate in a year in the first quarter,
fueled by overseas buyers,  Savills Plc (SVS)  said in March.  Asian purchasers have reserved five luxury apartments at  10
Trinity Square , a Grade II-listed residential and hotel
development near the Tower of London, according to one of the
owners of the property. That’s half of the reservations that
have been made for the 37 homes on offer.  “We’re looking to set a benchmark in the  City of London ,”
said Leny Suparman, chief executive officer of Singapore-based
KOP Properties Pte Ltd. Last year, KOP and Chinese investment
firm Reignwood Group bought the Trinity Square building, which
used to be the headquarters of the Port of London Authority. The
conversion won’t be completed until 2014.  Hong Kong’s Boom  Hong Kong’s house prices have gained more than 70 percent
since the start of 2009 to the highest since 1997, making it the
world’s most expensive place to buy an apartment, according to
Savills. Singapore’s economy grew at an annual rate of 23.5
percent in the first three months, driving  home prices  to a
record.  Li Ka-Shing , who controls developer  Cheung Kong  (Holdings)
Ltd., last week warned property speculators that the jump in
Hong Kong’s home prices may not be sustainable. The city’s
property price rally is nearing an end and may drop as much as
20 percent next year and a further 10 percent in 2013, Barclays
Capital Asia Ltd. said last month.  Mainland Chinese account for about 10 percent of new London
homes sold to foreign buyers and Hong Kong as much as 15
percent, Knight Frank’s head of residential research  Liam Bailey 
said at a Bloomberg Link event in London yesterday.  “It’s a currency play,” Bailey said. “Most of the
purchases are for an investment, because London is seen as a
good place to put money.” Some properties are being used by the
buyer’s family members, particularly students attending London
universities, he said.  China Curbs Lending  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  is trying to curb property
speculation by placing constraints on mortgage lending, boosting
down-payment requirements and limiting the number of home
purchases. Home prices rose 28 percent in Beijing and 26 percent
in Shanghai last year, according to the country’s biggest real
estate website owner SouFun Holdings Ltd.  New homes are more popular among Asian investors than ones
that have already been occupied, Knight Frank’s Warner said.  “They want the clean, crisp, new properties so that they
can have a decent rental investment or a decent place to stay
when they are in town,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 