-- 
Longtop Financial Technologies Sued by Investor Claiming Securities Fraud

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-05-25T22:22:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/longtop-financial-technologies-sued-by-investor-claiming-securities-fraud.html
Longtop Financial Technologies Ltd. (LFT) ,
facing an inquiry by U.S. securities regulators over its
financial reports, was sued by an investor alleging the company
overstated profit margins and concealed adverse facts.  Joe Mikus, the investor, seeks to represent people who
purchased shares of Longtop from June 2009 through April on
claims that they lost money when the shares fell 33 percent
around April 26 after reports questioned the company’s finances,
according to documents filed in federal court in Los Angeles.  Longtop, a Hong Kong-based software provider whose 2007
U.S. initial public offering was underwritten by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG, said May 23 that auditor
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd. resigned and the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission was investigating Deloitte’s claims. The
auditor said in a resignation letter that it found falsehoods in
company financial reports, Longtop said in a May 23 statement.  The lawsuit was filed the same day by New York-based Rosen
Law Firm. The firm has filed about 20 investor suits against
Chinese companies listed in the U.S. by reverse mergers,
Laurence Rosen, managing partner, said in a telephone interview
today. In a reverse merger, a closely held company becomes
public by purchasing a shell company that already trades.  Research Company Reports  The complaint cites research company reports raising
questions about the company’s margins and the backgrounds of its
managers.  Mikus asked for unspecified compensatory damages. An e-mail
message to Longtop seeking comment after regular business hours
in  Hong Kong  wasn’t immediately returned.  A least 370 reverse merger companies obtained U.S. listings
since 2004, according to DealFlow Media Inc., a research firm
based in Woodbury,  New York .  The Securities and Exchange Commission set up a  task force 
to look for fraud in overseas companies with listings on U.S.
exchanges, with particular interest in Chinese reverse mergers,
and began a probe last year asking auditors for information on
the firms.  The agency has revoked the registrations of eight China-
based companies since December, and more than 24 firms have
disclosed auditor resignations or accounting problems to the
agency since March, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  wrote in an April
27 letter.  The case is Mikus v. Longtop Financial Technologies Ltd.,
2:11-cv-04402, U.S. District Court, Central District of
 California  ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco federal court
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  