-- 
Top Copper Producer Chile Sees Prices Staying High as China Economy Cools

-- B y   K e l l y   C r e g g   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-05-25T20:58:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/top-copper-producer-chile-sees-prices-staying-high-amid-china-slowdown.html
Chile , the world’s biggest copper
producer, expects prices of the metal to remain high even if
 China ’s economic growth slows, President Sebastian Pinera said.  Chinese growth may slow to rates of 7 percent to 9 percent,
which would still be enough to keep commodity prices high for
“a very long period of time,” Pinera, 61, said today in an
interview with Bloomberg Television from Paris. “Our
expectation is for copper to remain high,” he said.  Pinera, a billionaire entrepreneur-turned-politician who
took office in March last year, wants to increase output and
productivity at state-owned copper company Codelco. Copper rose
the most in a week today as Deutsche Bank AG said prices
probably will climb, echoing similar forecasts from Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “What we need now is to modernize Codelco in order to make
it much more efficient in terms of cost, in terms of searching
and looking for new markets, and also in terms of being
friendlier to the environment,” Pinera said today.  Copper futures for July delivery climbed 9.4 cents, or 2.3
percent, to settle at $4.107 a pound at 1:28 p.m. on the Comex
in  New York , the biggest gain since May 18. In March and April,
the price dropped a combined 7.1 percent. On Feb. 15, the metal
surged to a record $4.6575.  The metal’s price probably will average $4.20 a pound this
year, up from last year’s $3.42 average, according to Chile’s
central bank.  China, the world’s biggest consumer of the metal used in
wiring and plumbing, had economic growth of 9.7 percent last
quarter.  Wealth Funds  Pinera said Chile, which holds some of its copper revenue
in offshore wealth funds, is taking “good care” not to overheat
the economy, which grew 9.8 percent in the first quarter, the
most in 15 years, as consumption surged and manufacturing
recovered from the biggest earthquake in half a century.  Capital controls are “not the best answer” to limiting
gains in Chile’s currency, Pinera said, adding that he hopes
pressure on the peso will ease once the  Federal Reserve ’s so-
called quantitative easing program ends.  Chile’s peso has strengthened 16 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past 12 months, the biggest gain among major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Cregg in London at 
 kcregg@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ; or
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  