-- 
Durable Goods Orders in U.S. Likely Fell in April

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-05-25T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/orders-for-u-s-durable-goods-probably-declined-in-april-on-aircraft-cars.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods
probably fell in April, reflecting less demand for aircraft and
disruptions in supplies of auto parts stemming from the
earthquake in  Japan , economists said before a report today.  The projected 2.5 percent decrease in bookings for goods
meant to last at least three years follows a 4.1 percent jump in
March that was the biggest in six months, according to the
median forecast of 81 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Orders excluding the volatile transportation category may have
gained 0.5 percent.  Bookings for  Boeing Co. (BA)  aircraft slumped last month and
vehicle makers slowed production due to a components shortage
that may be short-lived as Japanese manufacturers recover. At
the same time, rising overseas sales at  Deere & Co. (DE)  and  General
Electric Co. (GE)  indicate factories will keep expanding.  “Orders are losing some momentum,” said Sean Incremona, a
senior economist at 4Cast Inc. in  New York . “The economy is
just grinding upward rather than accelerating, so the trend in
business investment is slowing a bit. The Japan situation is a
downside risk to manufacturing but it’ll be temporary.”  The Commerce Department’s report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Survey estimates ranged from a drop of 5.7 percent
to a gain of 2 percent. Economists’ forecasts for orders
excluding transportation ranged from a decline of 1.2 percent to
an increase of 1.8 percent.  Capital Spending  A recurring pattern of declines in equipment orders at the
start of a quarter probably also helped depress the April
figures, economists said.  Non-defense orders for durable goods excluding aircraft,
items such as computers, engines and communications gear,
declined 2.1 percent in April, according to the median
projection in the Bloomberg survey. Since the end of 2005, these
bookings have dropped in the first month of a quarter in all but
three instances.  Chicago-based Boeing, the world’s largest aerospace
company, said it received two orders last month compared with 98
in March. Industry data may not correlate precisely with the
government statistics on a month-to-month basis.  Disruptions related to the March earthquake and tsunami in
Japan led to a plunge in U.S. automobile output, causing
industrial production to stall in April, a Federal Reserve
report showed last week.  Economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York yesterday
cut their second-quarter U.S. growth projection to 2.5 percent
from a previous estimate of 3 percent.  Japan Earthquake  “The main factor behind our revision is weaker output of
the auto vehicle sector,” JPMorgan’s chief U.S. economist
 Michael Feroli  wrote in an e-mail. Part of the slowdown in
production is due to supply disruptions caused by the disaster
in Japan, he said.  Other data showed manufacturing in the Philadelphia region
grew in May at the slowest pace in seven months, while a measure
of the industry in the Richmond, Virginia, region showed
contraction. The Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond’s gauge
dropped to minus 6 this month, the lowest since April 2009.
Negative figures indicate manufacturing was shrinking.  Still, overseas sales and corporate investment may be a
backstop for manufacturers in coming months. Deere, the world’s
largest farm-equipment maker, this month raised its fiscal 2011
earnings forecast amid increasing global demand for agriculture
and construction equipment.  General Electric’s operating profit growth will accelerate
in this year’s second half, and a pickup in sales of energy-
efficient products such as gas turbines will help to drive
earnings gains next year, according to Chief Executive Officer
 Jeffrey Immelt .  ‘Turning Positive’  “Our 2011 framework is turning positive and we see when we
look at incoming orders and things like that, there’s nothing to
derail that on a global basis,” Immelt, who also is chairman of
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE, said at a conference on May 18.
“We’re very well positioned for 2012 and beyond.”  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery Index, which
includes companies like Caterpillar Inc. and Deere, has gained
46 percent in the 12 months to May 24, outpacing a 23 percent
gain in the broader  S&P 500 Index. (SPX)   Economists project that even with smaller gains,
manufacturing will contribute to economic growth this year.
Federal Reserve officials are discussing strategies to begin
tightening policy after completing the purchase of $600 billion
in U.S. Treasuries by the end of June.  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said that while first-quarter growth was a disappointment, the
slow pace isn’t likely to last.  “I think the economy will be reasonably robust in the
second quarter and the second half of the year,” he said in a
May 23 speech. Manufacturing has been “fairly good” and
household spending has “held up well,” he said.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  