-- 
More Americans Need to Work, and to Marry

-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 
2011-05-25T17:24:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/more-americans-need-to-work-and-to-marry.html
America has long channeled the spirit
of its industrious, fertile Pilgrim forebears by working long
hours and having many children. Yet since 2006, the number of
adult Americans who have never married has risen by more than 5
million. And since 2007, the number of employed Americans has
fallen by 7 million. Is the economic slump turning America into
 Europe ?  There are many things to love about Western Europe -- great
paintings, good primary schools, excellent soup -- but
consistent high unemployment and low fertility rates aren’t
among them.  America’s economy has long benefitted from its well-
functioning labor markets. Our high marriage and fertility rates
boost demand for housing, and all its associated expenditures,
and steady population growth makes it far easier to pay for
social programs, such as Social Security and Medicare. A
jobless, marriageless recovery is not something to celebrate.  The U.S. used to be exceptional. Five years ago, Alberto Alesina and I published the book "Fighting Poverty in the U.S.
and Europe: A World of Difference," which examined why the U.S.
didn’t have a European-style welfare state. The data pointed to
two main reasons: America’s ethnic mix and its political
institutions, which looked liberal in 1910 but seem conservative
today.  Across the world, countries that are comparatively
homogenous, such as  Sweden , are more generous to their poor. But
the U.S.’s ethnic diversity, which is wonderful in many ways,
has historically been a bane to advocates of aggressive social
spending. Unlike European political rules, which were often
written by social democrats after revolutions or world wars had
wiped out more conservative groups, the American Constitution
was designed to restrict radical minority parties.  Social-Welfare Spending  As a result, America spends relatively little on social-
welfare programs. Our budget is only a reflection of our mind-
set. In recent decades, 60 percent of Americans have said they
believe the poor are lazy, while only 26 percent of Europeans
share that view, the World Values Survey has found.  The truth is, all Americans -- rich and poor alike -- work
long hours. At the start of the last decade, Americans ages 15
to 64 were working 35 percent more hours annually than the
Germans, 40 percent more than the French and 50 percent more
than the Italians. Much of this gap can be explained by the
number of weeks in a year that Americans worked: 46. That’s five
more than the average for European countries, where workers also
worked two to three fewer hours per week. Much of this
difference can be explained by labor rules. In  France  and
 Germany , for example, everyone has the right to more than 20
vacation days a year.  Labor-Force Decline  Europe also differs from the U.S. in its long-term
unemployment. In 2007, only 10 percent of jobless people in the
U.S. had been out of work for a year or more; in France, 40
percent had. That gap has narrowed significantly.  Now the U.S. has developed a Europe-sized problem with
unemployment among young adults. From 2006 to 2010, the jobless
rate for Americans ages 20 to 24 rose to 15.5 percent from 8.2
percent, and the rate for men ages 25 to 29 increased to 11.8
percent from 5 percent.  The bottom line is that in 2010 there were 7 million fewer
employed Americans than in 2007. Over the same period, the
number of people not working increased by 13 million. So the
size of the  labor force  declined in a country with a growing
population, which indicates large numbers of people stopped
looking for work altogether.  This shift from work has wrought larger changes in the
American family. From 2006 to 2010, the number of Americans
older than 15 who had never married rose by 5.7 million,
dwarfing the 1.7 million rise in the number of married adults.
The number who were divorced or separated also went up, by 1.5
million.  More specifically, among Americans ages 25 to 29, the
number of those married fell by 524,000, and the number of those
who never married rose by 1.7 million. (Marriage likewise
declined substantially during the early years of the Great
Depression.) The decline in young marriages is also making us
more like Europe, where young adults have long been more likely
to marry later and -- until they do -- to live at home.  In the short run, the marriage drop means fewer households
being formed -- only 378,000 from 2008 to 2010; this, in turn,
keeps the housing market down. If new households were still
forming at the 2005 rate of 1.3 million per year, our excess
housing inventory would probably go away, and the  construction
industry  would likely be back to normal in no time.  Housing isn’t the only problem. The current decline could
lead to European-style sclerosis in unemployment over the long
term. A 1999 report by  Olivier Blanchard  and Justin Wolfers of
the  National Bureau of Economic Research  explained how temporary
economic shocks in Europe during the 1970s and 1980s interacted
with labor-market institutions, such as generous welfare states,
to create permanently elevated unemployment. People couldn’t get
jobs; eventually, they stayed out of the labor market
altogether.  Europe’s Demographic Trap  It’s possible, in fact, that Europe’s stubborn unemployment
has added to its demographic challenges. Low marriage rates
typically lead to low fertility rates, which ultimately mean
declining populations.  Population growth  is needed to finance
social programs, such as Medicare and Social Security. If
America’s low marriage rates lead to lower birth rates, we may
have even more trouble supporting our social programs, unless
immigration continues to pick up the slack.  There are ways to boost employment and household formation.
We could cut the  payroll tax , which hits lower-income jobs
hardest. We could provide a renter’s credit, equivalent to the
mortgage interest deduction, to make it easier for young adults
to afford to move out of their parents’ homes. If we were
feeling really radical, we could even lower the home-mortgage
interest deduction for parents with adult children living at
home.  Sigmund Freud  defined mental health as "the ability to love
and to work" and, using that definition, the 2008-09 recession
seems to have aimed a torpedo at our nation’s psyche. Even as
the unemployment rate declines, we need to recognize and address
the deeper wounds -- a shrinking labor force and low marriage
rates -- that lie within our society.  (Edward Glaeser is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Edward L. Glaeser at  Eglaeser@harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  