-- 
Morgan Crucible Wins Dismissal of U.K. Civil Claims Over Cartel

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-25T12:20:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/morgan-crucible-wins-dismissal-of-u-k-civil-claims-over-cartel.html
Morgan Crucible Co. (MGCR) , the maker of
carbon materials for medical and transportation equipment, won
its dismissal from a U.K. lawsuit filed by Deutsche Bahn AG and
30 other European rail companies over a defunct graphite cartel.  The group needed to sue Morgan Crucible sooner than the
other cartel members because it was a whistleblower in the
underlying European Union case and wasn’t involved in a
challenge to EU fines, the  Competition Appeal Tribunal  ruled
today. The rail companies waited to sue until after the EU
appeal was finished.  “The claims against Morgan Crucible in these proceedings
have not been brought within the time limit,” the London court,
which handles U.K. antitrust cases, said in its decision.  The price-fixing, which lasted from 1988 to 1999, caused
customers to pay too much for graphite-based goods used for
transferring electricity in train motors. While Windsor,
England-based Morgan Crucible won immunity from EU fines by
being the first to cooperate, its former Chief Executive Officer
Ian Norris was sentenced to 18 months in prison in a parallel
U.S. case.  One of the rail companies’ lawyers, Lianne Craig of
Hausfeld & Co. LLP, declined to comment when reached today by
phone.  European Union regulators in 2003 levied fines totaling 101
million euros ($142 million) against four of the cartel’s five
members,  SGL Carbon SE (SGL) , France’s Carbone Lorraine SA, Austria’s
Hoffmann & Co. and Schunk GmbH. The railway companies’ lawyers
have said the case, filed in December, may be the most
significant claim of its kind in Europe.  The case is Deutsche Bahn AG & Others v. Morgan Crucible
Co. & Others, 1173/5/7/10, Competition Appeal Tribunal (London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 