-- 
Tornadoes Sweep U.S. States

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-05-25T01:40:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/tornadoes-sweep-u-s-states.html
Violent thunderstorms with hail and
deadly tornadoes are sweeping across the U.S., killing at least
six people in  Oklahoma  and  Kansas  about 48 hours after the
deadliest U.S. twister on record leveled homes and businesses in
Joplin, Missouri.  Four people were killed near Oklahoma City, according to
the Weather Channel LLC. The Kansas Highway Patrol reported two
deaths. As of 7:30 p.m.,  New York  time, 13 tornadoes had been
reported in Kansas,  Texas , Oklahoma, Colorado and  Virginia ,
according to the U.S.  Storm Prediction Center  in Norman,
Oklahoma.  At least 60 injuries have been reported in Oklahoma and
Kansas, according to the Weather Channel. Tennis ball-sized hail
was reported in at least one storm, according to the weather
service.  “I’ve seen homes torn off their foundation,” Oklahoma
Governor Mary Fallin said in an interview on the Weather
Channel, and added that “seven or eight” towns in the state
have been hit by the violent storms. Fallin declared a  state of
emergency  in 14 counties and indicated more could be added. The
declaration is a step toward seeking federal assistance.  Hail as deep as 6 inches was reported in Morton, Kansas,
the U.S. Storm Prediction Center said.  The latest round of severe weather comes on the heels of
killer storms in  Missouri . Joplin City Manager Mark Rohr said
today 122 people were killed from the tornado that struck there
on May 22. The twister has now been classified as an EF-5 on the
Enhanced Fujita Scale, the most powerful, with wind gusts of 200
miles per hour, according to Bill Davis, meteorologist in charge
of the Springfield, Missouri, office.  Deadliest Ever  The Joplin tornado is the now the deadliest in U.S.
records, which date to 1950. The prior record was set June 8,
1953, when a twister in Flint,  Michigan , killed 116 people.  The population of the U.S. has shifted west and south in
recent decades, so more people are living in areas that are
struck by tornadoes, Jack Hayes, weather service director, said.  As of May, 2011 is the ninth deadliest year on record and
the year isn’t half over yet, said Hayes. At least 487 people
have died in tornadoes so far this year, the earliest that such
a high toll has been reached, said Russ Schneider, director of
the Storm Prediction Center. In the last three years combined
prior to this year, 192 people were killed by tornadoes,
according to the storm center.  More Storms  As Joplin struggles with the devastation, the central U.S.
remains under threat of more thunderstorms, hail and tornadoes,
according to the Storm Prediction Center.  “If you are in the path of this storm take cover now,” a
tornado warning in Oklahoma said. “If you wait to see it or
hear it coming it may be too late to get to a safe place.”  An area from Kansas to Texas, including  Oklahoma City ,
Tulsa and  Dallas , is covered by the watches, the  National
Weather Service  said. The agency’s Tulsa office warned residents
to have storm shelters selected.  The deadliest year for tornadoes in the U.S. was 1925, when
794 people were killed, according to the  National Oceanographic
and Atmospheric Administration .  From 1990 to 2009, tornadoes caused $97.8 billion in
insured U.S. losses, second only to hurricanes, which caused
$152.4 billion, according to the Insurance Information Institute
in New York.  After hurricanes, tornadoes are nature’s second most
destructive storms.  Waning La Nina  The outbreak came a month after at least 305 tornadoes tore
through the U.S. South, killing 327 people, mostly in  Alabama ,
the NOAA said. The damage from the storms April 25 to April 27
was estimated to be as much as $5 billion, according to
catastrophic risk modeler  Eqecat Inc.  in Oakland,  California .  This year’s storm season may be caused by a waning La Nina,
a cooling in the Pacific Ocean, that is creating a zone suitable
for tornado conditions as warm moist air from the  Gulf of Mexico 
collides with colder air in the north.  Sea surface temperatures in the Gulf are now 3 degrees
Fahrenheit warmer than the pre-1970 average, said Kevin
Trenberth, distinguished senior scientist at the  National Center
for Atmospheric Research  in Boulder,  Colorado .  “Two degrees of that can be attributed to natural
variability while one degree Fahrenheit is associated with
 climate change ,” Trenberth said in an interview today.  Schneider said there’s “emerging research” to suggest
that years like 2011 in which a La Nina fades tend to produce
more tornadoes. He said more research is needed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Joplin at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 