-- 
Morocco to Boost Wheat, Barley Harvests, Cut Imports, FAO Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-25T17:25:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/morocco-to-boost-wheat-barley-harvests-cut-imports-fao-says.html
Morocco, the third-largest wheat
buyer in north  Africa , is forecast to boost wheat and barley
production by 21 percent this year, helping cut grain imports,
the  United Nations ’ Food and Agricultural Organization said.  The wheat harvest is expected to rise to 5.9 million
metric tons from 4.89 million tons in 2010, while the barley
crop is forecast to climb to 3.1 million tons from 2.57 million
tons, the FAO said in a  report  on its website dated May 23.  “A good cereal crop is expected this year due to favorable
rainfall,” the UN agency said. “Soil moisture levels have
generally been adequate to meet the crops’ water requirement
since the beginning of the growing season.”  Morocco  on average produced 58 percent of the wheat it
consumed in the past 10 years, based on data from the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture . The country typically sets an import
tax for wheat at the start of the season to help local farmers
sell their crop to millers.  The country’s overall grain imports are forecast to fall
to 4.44 million tons in 2011-12 from 6.04 million tons the
previous year, and compared with an average 5.18 million tons
in the past five years, according to the FAO.  “Morocco is a food-deficit country where agricultural
production fluctuates markedly from year to year due to weather
variations,” the FAO said. “The changes in international
prices have had minor impact so far on domestic prices because
of government interventions.”  Egypt  is North Africa’s largest wheat importer, followed
by Algeria, according to the International Grains Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 