-- 
Moser Baer of India Says It Has Halted Production of Solar Cells at Plant

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-25T05:36:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/moser-baer-of-india-says-it-has-halted-production-of-solar-cells.html
Moser Baer India Ltd. (MBI) , the country’s
second-largest maker of solar cells, declined as much as 2.3
percent after saying it temporarily halted production of the
electrical devices.  The company shut its solar cell manufacturing line “a few
weeks back” to carry out upgrading work aimed at increasing
cell efficiency, Moser Baer said in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg News.  Moser Baer’s shares fell 0.9 percent to 38.2 rupees as of
10:58 a.m. in Mumbai trading. The Bombay Stock Exchange
Sensitive Index lost 0.6 percent.  The company is buying cells in the meantime to meet its
needs, it said. It had the capacity to produce 90 megawatts of
cells annually, according to its  website . Moser Baer also aims
to start a new, high-efficiency 100-megawatt cell production
line “shortly,” the statement said.  Solar cells, made out of semiconductor materials like
silicon, convert sunlight into electricity. Cells are assembled
into panels or modules, which are used to construct plants to
generate power.  Moser Baer,  India ’s fifth-largest maker of solar modules,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, makes cells for its
own consumption in its modules.  The New Delhi-based company exports 90 percent of its
modules to 32 countries, according to a  Feb. 15 statement . Its
customers include  Germany ’s  Solarworld AG (SWV)  and  Colexon Energy AG (HRP) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company declined to say when it expected upgrading to
be complete or from which suppliers it was buying cells.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 