-- 
Most Hong Kong Stocks Fall as Developers Slide; Glencore Drop

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-05-25T08:43:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/most-hong-kong-stocks-fall-as-developers-slide-glencore-drop.html
Most Hong Kong stocks fell, as
developers declined amid signs of further monetary tightening in
 China , and as Glencore International Plc retreated on its first
day of trading in the world’s biggest initial public offering
this year.  China Resources Land Ltd. (1109) , a state-controlled developer,
sank 1.8 percent. Glencore, the world’s biggest listed trader of
commodities by capitalization, dropped 2.5 percent. Aluminum
Corp. of China Ltd., known as Chalco and the nation’s biggest
producer of the metal, sank 2 percent after Citigroup Inc.
reiterated its sell rating, Jiangxi Copper Co., the nation’s
largest supplier of the metal, increased 1.6 percent after price
of the metal advanced.  The Hang Seng Composite Index sank 0.1 percent to 3,226.68,
with twice as many stocks declining as rising in the 369-member
gauge. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese
companies’ H shares rose 0.1 percent to 12,689.66.  “In the short term, the overall  market sentiment  is bad,
 Alex Wong , asset-management director at Ample Capital Ltd. in
Hong Kong. “Today we have another downside test, but the market
is still holding okay.”  The Hang Seng Index rose 0.1 percent, reversing declines,
after  David Riley , Fitch Ratings Ltd.’s group managing director
of sovereign ratings, told Boersen-Zeitung that it has no plans
to lower Italy’s credit rating or the outlook for the country.  A measure of developers had the biggest drop among the Hang
Seng Index’s four industry groups.  Developers Fall  China Resources Land slid 1.8 percent to HK$13.28, while
 China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , controlled by the
nation’s construction ministry, retreated 1.3 percent to
HK$15.42.  China will curb speculative demand for homes and maintain
basically stable real-estate prices to control the  property
market , Shanghai Securities News reported today, citing Ni Hong,
director of the housing reform and development department of the
Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development.  Jim Chanos , the hedge-fund manager known for predicting
Enron Corp.’s 2001 collapse, said Chinese developers have too
much land on their balance sheets, similar to the U.S. before
its housing market tumbled. He has been forecasting a Chinese
housing crash since last year.  The Hang Seng Index has fallen 1.3 percent this year
through yesterday amid concern  Europe ’s debt crisis and China’s
tightening measures will slow global economic growth. Shares in
the gauge traded at an average 12.1 times forecast earnings
yesterday, compared with 14.4 times at the end of last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Commodities Companies  Glencore fell 2.5 percent from the public offering price of
HK$66.53. Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said the drop
in the company’s shares on its debut in  Hong Kong  reflected
recent declines in commodity prices.  Chalco sank 2 percent to HK$6.53 after Citigroup Inc.
reiterated its sell rating, citing potential aluminum production
cuts and declining demand for the metal.  Among stocks that rose, Jiangxi Copper increased 1.6
percent to HK$25.05 after three-month delivery copper on the
London Metal Exchange rose as much as 1.1 percent to $8,958 a
metric ton.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd., the nation’s second-biggest
mobile-phone operator, rose 0.3 percent to HK$16.06 after
offering cheaper iPhone package.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index gained 0.2 percent to 22,744.
The HSI Volatility Index, the benchmark gauge for Hong Kong
stock options, rose 0.8 percent to 19.15, indicating options
traders expect a swing of 5.5 percent in the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  in
the next 30 days.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 