-- 
GOP Chides IRS for Tax Refunds to Ineligible

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-05-25T16:28:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/house-republicans-chide-irs-for-refunds-to-ineligible-taxpayers.html
U.S. House Republicans say the
 Internal Revenue Service  isn’t doing enough to prevent
refundable tax credits from going to taxpayers who aren’t
eligible to receive them.  About one-quarter of payments of the earned income tax
credit are issued to people who are ineligible for them, which
cost the government more than $11 billion in fiscal 2009,
according to the Treasury’s  inspector general  for tax
administration. The earned income tax credit is designed to
assist low-income taxpayers by providing an incentive for people
to enter and remain in the workforce.  “Not enough is being done to stem the tide of improper
payments,” Representative Charles Boustany, a Louisiana
Republican, said at a Ways and Means subcommittee hearing today.
“The agency has also failed to implement years of inspector
general recommendations that, if accepted, could save taxpayers
billions of dollars.”  Democrats said Republicans were focusing too much on EITC
recipients and ignoring other understatements of income.
Representative Ron Kind, a Wisconsin Democrat, said Republicans
are trying to have it both ways by demanding more enforcement
and supporting a budget that would cut the IRS’s funding.  “Republicans appear to believe the rich pay too much in
taxes and the middle class not enough,” said Representative
Joseph Crowley, a New York Democrat.  Administrative Headache  The EITC, the  child tax credit  and the first-time homebuyer
tax credit are refundable, meaning that taxpayers can receive
payments from the government that exceed their income tax
liability.  Steve Miller , the deputy commissioner for services and
enforcement at the IRS, said refundable credits present a
significant administrative problem in part because of the
complexity of the  tax code  and changes to tax law that require
the agency to implement new credits quickly.  “The IRS must deliver the promised refunds in the intended
time frames while ensuring that appropriate controls are in
place,” he said.  Miller said new IRS regulations of tax return preparers,
along with its request for more enforcement resources, should
help limit improper payments. To prevent some refunds from being
issued, Congress would need to grant the IRS additional
authority.  Noncompliance Rates  Boustany said after the hearing that he wanted to examine
the issue further.  Nina Olson, the independent national taxpayer advocate
within the IRS, said EITC noncompliance rates have declined over
the past decade. She also said EITC recipients are twice as
likely to be audited, compared with other taxpayers, and those
audits yield fewer dollars than other audits of individuals.  Representative Diane Black, a Tennessee Republican, said
EITC recipients should be required to provide more documentation
to claim the benefit, particularly to prove that children live
with them.  Miller said the IRS has resisted a documentation
requirement in part because of budget constraints.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  