-- 
U.S. House Republican Pushes Measure Against IMF Bailouts

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-05-25T22:54:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/house-republican-pushes-resolution-against-imf-bailouts-for-eu.html
A Republican member of the  House of
Representatives  introduced a resolution today that expresses
Congress’s disapproval of U.S. participation in International
Monetary Fund bailouts for countries in the European Union until
they comply with the bloc’s debt and deficit limits.  The measure by Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers of
Washington state comes as  Europe ’s debt crisis deepens, with
policy makers in the region discussing whether to boost aid to
 Greece  to avoid a default. The IMF has been providing about a
third of the bailouts in the region and has agreed to continue
doing so in the case of future packages.  “At a time when the federal government is borrowing $5
billion every day on top of a $14 trillion national debt, I am
gravely concerned by America’s growing involvement in the
‘gathering storm’ of European bailouts,” McMorris Rodgers said
in an e-mailed statement today.  The concurrent resolution, which is not legally binding,
states that Congress disapproves of U.S. participation in the
provision by the IMF “of a multibillion dollar funding package
to the European Union, until each member state of the European
Union demonstrate compliance with the economic requirements of
membership” in the bloc.  The U.S. is the largest shareholder in the IMF, with a
voting stake of almost 17 percent.  The EU requires its members’ budget deficits to not exceed
3 percent of gross domestic product and debt of no more than 60
percent of GDP. The IMF in an April  report  estimated that the
average deficit in the 17-nation euro region this year will
reach 4.4 percent of GDP. That compares with 10.8 percent in the
U.S., the largest among major developed economies.  Republican Majority  A year ago, when the House was controlled by the Democrats,
McMorris Rodgers sponsored a similar resolution that never went
to the floor for a vote. Republicans took control of the chamber
in January after Democrats lost 63 seats in the Nov. 2 midterm
elections.  In an interview today, McMorris Rodgers said she believed
that her measure -- which was referred to the  House Financial
Services Committee  for consideration -- would get more interest
this year. While concurrent resolutions do not have the force of
law because they do not go to the president for his signature,
they do reflect Congress’s opinion on an issue by requiring a
vote.  New Managing Director  Her proposal comes as the IMF seeks a new managing director
to succeed  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , who resigned last week after
his arrest in  New York  on charges of attempted rape and sexual
assault.  “I think that the scandal is unfortunately indicative of a
larger culture of entitlement at the IMF,” McMorris Rodgers
said in the telephone interview.  She said the U.S. should push for a IMF candidate “who has
an appreciation of free markets, understands the danger of a
too-big-to-fail philosophy at the global level and somebody that
understands that we can’t continue the borrow, spend and bailout
policies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at  
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  