-- 
Lowy’s Sons Take Joint Control of Westfield Group as Father Steps Back

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-05-25T06:55:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/lowy-sons-to-take-control-of-westfield-empire-as-father-frank-steps-back.html
Peter and Steven Lowy today took
control of  Westfield Group (WDC)  as their father Frank stepped back
from the company he founded in 1959.  Frank Lowy, 80, assumed the role of non-executive chairman
at the annual shareholder meeting of the world’s biggest
shopping mall operator by assets today in Sydney, while his
second and third sons were named co-chief executive officers.  “That Frank can step back is fantastic,” said Rhett Kessler, a  fund manager  at Pengana Capital. “It means the
company is bigger than the individual person.”  The changes follow Westfield’s creation of a new listed
property trust to own half of its Australian and New Zealand
malls, which enables the main entity to focus on higher-return
activities like development and management. The spinoff,
 Westfield Retail Trust (WRT) , is trading 4.7 percent below its
December offer price, while Westfield Group shares have declined
6 percent in 2011.  Sydney-based Westfield Group upgraded its development-
starts forecast to between A$1.25 billion ($1.3 billion) and
A$1.5 billion for 2012 and 2013 earlier this month, from between
A$750,000 and A$1 billion earlier.  Westfield Group shares fell 0.2 percent to A$9.01 at the
4:10 p.m. close of trading in Sydney and Westfield Retail shares
declined 1.1 percent to A$2.62, compared with a 1 percent
decline in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  The Group is considering developing shopping centers in
 Belgium  and  Italy  as it expands in continental Europe, the
U.K.’s Independent newspaper reported on May 22, without saying
where it got the information. The Australian company is in talks
with Gruppo Percassi about building a shopping center east of
Milan, the newspaper said. Its project in Belgium will be named
Uplace Machelen, according to the Independent.  ‘Other Markets’  “Historically, Westfield’s offshore growth has been in the
U.S. and  New Zealand , and more recently in the U.K. - all
markets that share similar economic and cultural characteristics
with  Australia ,” Frank Lowy said today in his last speech to
shareholders as executive chairman. “But there are other
markets with stable and mature retail environments which present
opportunities for Westfield to apply its expertise and improve
the management and increase the value of existing shopping
centers in those markets.”  Westfield will “continue to consider each of these
opportunities on their merits, and proceed only where we are
confident they will create value for shareholders,” he said.  Established areas with few outstanding mortgages that are
in need of more retail space, similar to the location of
Westfield London, “can be very profitable,” he told reporters
after the meeting.  Frank Lowy was executive chairman for 25 years, he said in
today’s speech. Peter and Steven Lowy were previously joint
managing directors.  Sales, New Markets  “The market is now waiting on news of asset sales in the
U.S.,” said Winston Sammut, managing director at Maxim Asset
Management. “Their long-term plan is to be truly global and
there’s been talk about them expanding into  Europe . It may still
be a little bit early, but that’s the way forward. In the
meantime, they’ve got a couple of things to keep them occupied
like their development pipeline and the sale of U.S. assets.”  The company is seeking buyers for $2 billion of U.S. malls
and will redeploy the funds into development work, the Wall
Street Journal reported in April.  “We announced when we did the restructure that we’d be
looking at selling some of our less productive assets,”  Peter Lowy  told reporters. “Similarly with joint ventures, we’re
analyzing which centers, where the market is.”  David Lowy, Frank’s oldest son, and board member David
Gonski didn’t seek re-election to the board. Brian Schwartz, a
director since May 2009, is set to replace David Lowy as deputy
chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  