-- 
Lloyds to Pay Out $33 Million After BoS Unit Rejected Customer Complaints

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-25T10:41:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/lloyds-to-pay-33-million-for-rejecting-customer-complaints.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s  Bank of
Scotland  unit must pay 20.5 million pounds ($33.3 million) for
rejecting complaints over retail investment products without
taking customers’ circumstances into account.  The bank was fined 3.5 million pounds by Britain’s
Financial Services Authority for mishandling complaints, and
agreed to pay 17 million pounds in compensation to customers,
the regulator said in  a statement  today.  Bank of  Scotland  “wrongly rejected a significant number”
of the 2,592 complaints it received between July 2007 and
October 2009, the FSA said. The agency found the bank didn’t
fairly assess whether the investments were suitable for the
customers who complained, and didn’t analyze the complaints it
received as a way to improve its business.  “The fine reflects BOS’s serious failure to treat
vulnerable customers fairly,” said Tracey McDermott, the acting
director of enforcement at the FSA. “The firm’s failure to
ensure it had a robust complaint-handling process in place led
to a significant number of complaints being rejected when they
should have been upheld.”  The fine is the second resulting from the FSA’s probe of
financial firms’ complaint handling, the regulator said. In
January, the FSA fined  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and its
National Westminster Bank unit a total of 2.8 million pounds for
delays responding to customers, failing to address their
concerns, and not giving bank staff adequate training.  Compensation  “We have fallen short of the high standards of service our
customers should be able to expect of us and we apologize,”
said Ray Milne, the risk director at Bank of Scotland. “We are
in the process of contacting affected customers and will pay
compensation where it is due.”  Bank of Scotland said in an e-mailed statement that it
cooperated with the FSA probe and accepts the findings. The bank
recognizes it didn’t investigate the complaints properly when
they were made and will review more than 8,600 complaints
relating to investment advice offered between February 2004 and
December 2009 that weren’t upheld or referred to the Financial
Ombudsman Service, according to the statement.  The regulator said the complaints relate to the bank’s
Collective Investment Plan, Personal Investment Plan, Guaranteed
Growth Bond, ISA Investor and Guaranteed Investment Plan. Bank
of Scotland will also review its sales of products to customers
who said they had a “cautious attitude to  investment risk ,”
the regulator said.  Britain’s financial regulator proposed tougher rules for
how banks must handle customer complaints in September, even as
grievances about  customer service  reached the lowest level since
2006. The number of complaints over general administration and
customer service in the first half of 2010 was the lowest since
the second half of 2006, at 596,606, according to data posted on
the FSA website.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 