-- 
Paulson Top Pick AngloGold Delayed in Colombia as Billionaire Boosts Stake

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-05-25T14:59:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/paulson-backed-anglogold-delayed-in-colombia-as-billionaire-increases-bets.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (AU) , the gold
producer whose largest shareholder is billionaire  John Paulson ,
said development of its key Colombia mine is delayed and will
cost more than expected after it struggled to obtain permits.  First output at La Colosa will now be 2018 at the earliest,
compared with earlier estimates of end-2016, Rafael Herz, chief
executive officer of the company’s Colombian unit, said in an
interview in Bogota. Costs will likely escalate to as high as
$3.5 billion, from a previous forecast of $2.7 billion, he said.  The Johannesburg-based company is counting on projects such
as La Colosa, which could double its output in the Americas, to
compensate for aging mines in  South Africa . Paulson’s $36
billion hedge fund boosted its stake in AngloGold last quarter
to benefit from rising prices and potential for higher output.  “The project has suffered obstacles in the exploration
phase that clearly have delayed the schedule,” Herz said
yesterday. “Some critical decisions as to where we can do
activities, what kind of permits do you need and how will they
be obtained need to be clarified,” he said of current mining
regulations in Colombia.  Exploration at the property resumed last year after being
suspended in February 2008 amid government restrictions on use
of forestland. This year, the company received permits to tap
nearby water supplies instead of trucking water to the mine.  ‘Most Significant’ Discovery  Colosa is the “most significant” gold discovery worldwide
in a decade, AngloGold CEO  Mark Cutifani  said in 2009. The
project, which is a potential ‘company-maker’ according to Herz,
may produce about 800,000 ounces of gold a year, or almost 20
percent of total output. Reserves at the site, located about 150
kilometers west of the capital, are about 12.3 million ounces.  “It’s a very interesting prospect since it’s so large,”
 Leon Esterhuizen , an equity analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  who
rates the stock “outperform,” said in a telephone interview
from  London . AngloGold’s stock is “cheap” relative to prices
for the metal, which reached a record this month, he said.  Gold has rallied 27 percent in 12 months and reached a
record $1,577.40 an ounce on May 2. Gold for June delivery rose
$3.20, or 0.2 percent, to $1,526.50 an ounce at 10:22 a.m. on
the Comex in  New York .  Paulson Fund  With a stake of about 11.8 percent, Paulson’s fund is the
largest shareholder in AngloGold, according to Bloomberg data.
The hedge fund last quarter bought 97,540 American depositary
receipts in Anglogold, South Africa’s biggest gold producer, and
2 million ADRs in Gold Fields Ltd., the country’s second-largest
producer, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Paulson bought an 11.3 percent stake in AngloGold worth
$1.28 billion, or $32 a share, in March 2008 from Anglo American
Plc.  AngloGold’s American depositary receipts fell 46 cents, or
1 percent, to $44.76 in New York.  George Soros , the billionaire founder of Soros Fund
Management LLC, sold most of his holdings in the bullion-backed
SPDR Gold Trust in the first quarter, while buying shares of
mining companies such as Goldcorp Inc.  Environmental regulation also stalled development of a $1
billion gold mining project by Greystar Resources Ltd., which in
March withdrew permit applications for the Angostura project in
 Colombia  after environmental opposition. The government later
said the company can’t build any projects in a protected
watershed area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  