-- 
Pimco Says ECB, Central Banks Have EU130 Billion of Greek Risk

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-05-25T16:46:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/pimco-says-ecb-central-banks-have-eu130-billion-of-greek-risk.html
The  European Central Bank  and the 17
central banks of nations sharing the euro have about 130 billion
euros ($183 billion) of risk from Greek debt in the event of a
restructuring or default, Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
fund manager  Andrew Bosomworth  estimated.  “A default is not a desire, but it’s something that might
be inevitable” for Greece, Bosomworth, Pimco’s head of
 portfolio management  in Munich, told journalists in Paris today.  In case of a default, the Greek central bank wouldn’t be
able to recapitalize the country’s lenders, which have borrowed
about 80 billion euros from the central banks that compose the
Eurosystem, Bosomworth said. As a result,  Germany , France and
the other euro-region governments may need to recapitalize their
central banks, he said.  ECB leaders and European Union policy makers are clashing
over how to prevent the currency region’s first default, after
256 billion euros in bailouts to  Greece , Ireland and Portugal
failed to stop contagion from the debt crisis. ECB Governing
Council member Christian Noyer yesterday ruled out a
restructuring of Greece’s debt, calling it a “horror story.”  A year after its 110 billion-euro rescue, Greece remains
shut out of financial markets and the cost of insuring its debt
against default is near a record high.  While a debt restructuring would “buy time,” alternative
solutions to a default are debt transfers to Germany and other
countries or Greece selling real-estate assets to reduce debt,
Bosomworth said. Transfers with other governments taking on
Greek sovereign debt are “not so likely” and would mean “debt
forgiveness essentially, as Germany received” from the allies
after World War II, Bosomworth said.  Unlike Greek banks, large European lenders such as  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA would have to use their earnings to weather potential
losses from Greek debt holdings, Bosomworth said. 