-- 
Poland Should Limit Scale of Interest-Rate Increases, Central Banker Says

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-05-25T09:30:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/poland-should-limit-interest-rate-increases-chojna-duch-says.html
Poland’s central bank should limit
the scale of rate increases as they may damp economic growth
while failing to curb inflation, said Elzbieta Chojna-Duch, a
member of the  Narodowy Bank Polski ’s Monetary Policy Council.  The  unemployment rate , near a 4-year high in March at 13.1
percent, is lowering the risk of price growth sparking wage
demands and boosting inflation, which is being driven by supply
factors that will fade, Chojna-Duch said in a May 24 interview
in Warsaw.  “The dilemma the MPC needs to face is whether to continue
the tightening cycle and, if we do, when and at what level to
end it so that we don’t damage economic growth,” she said.
“The next inflation projection prepared by the central bank
staff will be important in determining whether we should end the
current tightening cycle and shift to a neutral monetary policy
stance.”  Policy makers around the world are struggling to contain
accelerating inflation, driven by surging food and fuel prices.
 Poland  was the second of the European Union’s three biggest
eastern economies to begin boosting its interest rates,
following  Hungary , which lifted its borrowing costs in November,
December and January.  The Monetary Policy Council raised the benchmark seven-day
rate a quarter-point to 4.25 percent on May 10, against the
expectations of 24 of 31 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
move was made to preempt a buildup of wage and price pressures
as inflation accelerated in April to 4.5 percent, above the
central bank’s target of 2.5 percent for a seventh month.  Inflation Peak  While price growth can be expected in the summer months,
the inflation rate will probably top out at 4.7 percent in May
or June and then start to decline, reaching 3 percent by the end
of this year and hitting the target by 2012, Chojna-Duch said.  Investors expect the central bank to raise  interest rates 
in total by a half-point before the end of the year, according
to six-month forward rate agreements, which are trading 57 basis
points above the above the three-month Warsaw interbank offered
rate. The zloty has gained 0.34 percent against the euro this
year, the fifth-best performance among more than 20 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg and traded at 3.9510 at
11:00 a.m. in Warsaw.  Council members  Adam Glapinski  and Anna Zielinska-Glebocka
said this week that monetary tightening should continue.  Jerzy Hausner  told Obserwatorfinansowy.pl, the central-bank operated
website, that rates will probably continue though “the end of
the monetary tightening process should be in sight.”  ‘Excessive Tightening’  Economic growth will slow later this year and “excessive
tightening won’t help change the trend” of slow investment
growth while higher borrowing costs won’t help bring down
unemployment, she said.  “Companies need economic and political stability, and the
crisis in the  euro zone  is preventing that,” she said.
“Economic growth will probably slow on an annual basis over the
next few quarters, which should limit the scope of cumulative
rate increases needed to stabilize inflation.”  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
raised its economic growth forecast for Poland today to 3.9
percent from 3 percent.  The  European Central Bank  raised rates last month for the
first time in three years and President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
on May 12 that energy and commodities prices continue to present
“upward pressure on overall inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  