-- 
Polish Retail Sales Growth Accelerates, Suggesting Rates May Rise in June

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-05-25T11:02:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/polish-retail-sales-grow-faster-rates-may-rise-in-june-1-.html
Polish retail sales growth
accelerated to the fastest in more than three years in April,
boosting expectations the central bank will raise  interest rates 
for the fourth time this year next month.  Sales rose an annual 18.6 percent, the most since February
2008, compared with a 9.4 percent increase in March, the  Central
Statistical Office  in Warsaw reported today. The median estimate
of 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 14.8 percent. Sales
rose 2.3 percent on the month.  “This data match the positive picture of the Polish
economy and add an argument for hawks on the Monetary Policy
Council,” said Kaja Retkiewicz-Wijtiwiak, an economist at Bank
BPH in Warsaw. “We expect a rate hike within the next two
months, and today’s data significantly increase the probability
it will come in June.”  The increase in retail sales was mainly the result of weak
figures in the year-earlier period, when Poles were mourning
President  Lech Kaczynski ’s death in a plane crash. Higher fuel
and food prices also boosted the value of sales. The data come
two weeks after the central bank unexpectedly raised its
benchmark rate to 4.25 percent.  Investors expect one more rate increase in the next three
months, according to three-month forward rate agreements, which
are trading 28 basis points above the three-month Warsaw
interbank offered rate. The zloty weakened to 3.9563 against the
euro by 11:58 a.m. in Warsaw from yesterday’s close of 3.9484.  Battling Inflation  Some policy makers, including Anna Zielinska-Glebocka and
 Adam Glapinski , said this week that monetary tightening should
continue as the central bank tries to slow inflation to its 2.5
percent target from 4.5 percent in April.  Grzegorz Ogonek, an economist at ING Bank Slaski in Warsaw,
said today that month-on-month data show moderate growth, or
even declines, in some components of retail sales, which may
reduce pressure for higher rates.  “Durables, food, and clothing staged a huge recovery, but
only using year-on-year metric, not month-on-month, and this
will make the policy makers cautious in translating the
acceleration into all-out consumer boom signal,” Ogonek said.  Monika Kurtek, an economist at Bank Pocztowy in Warsaw,
said she expects the central bank to put a rate change on hold
in June as it waits to see whether April retail sales growth was
a one-time phenomenon.  Unemployment fell to 12.6 percent in April from 13.1
percent the previous month, the statistics office said today in
a separate report, matching the forecast of 22 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  