-- 
Polkomtel Shareholders Said to Continue Talks With Four Bidders, Not Two

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-05-25T15:05:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/polkomtel-shareholders-said-to-continue-negotiations-with-four-bidders.html
The owners of Polkomtel SA, Poland’s
second-largest mobile phone company, remain in touch with four
bidders, a person close to the talks said, after a newspaper
reported this week that the competition had narrowed to two.  The bids give Polkomtel an enterprise value of 16 billion
zloty ($5.7 billion) to 18 billion zloty, said the person,
asking not to be identified because the negotiations are
private. Polish billionaire Zygmunt Solorz-Zak, Apax Partners
LLP,  Sweden ’s biggest phone company  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  and a group
formed by  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and Bain Capital LLC are bidding, people
familiar with the matter said earlier this month.  Polkomtel’s owners, which include  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , PKN
Orlen SA,  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , PGE SA, and Weglokoks SA, are
considering bids only from TeliaSonera and Solorz, Rp.pl
reported on its website May 22. The next round of bids are due
June 10, another person with knowledge of the sale told
Bloomberg today.  The owners plan to complete the transaction by the end of
next month. The 2008 sale by  Denmark ’s TDC A/S of a 20 percent
holding provides a 3.7 billion-euro ($5.2 billion) minimum
valuation, KGHM said in November.  Deutsche Bank AG, which is advising one of the bidders,
said in March that the price for Polkomtel won’t be
“materially” higher than the one achieved in the TDC deal.  Enterprise Value  Polkomtel’s enterprise value includes about 2 billion zloty
of net debt, a 1.03 billion-zloty dividend to due to current
shareholders and a 130.7 million-zloty fine imposed by Polish
antitrust regulators, the person close to the talks said today.  Polkomtel, which last year had earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation, and amortization of 2.83 billion zloty,
said in April that this year’s earnings will be similar to 2010.
The lower range of the bids gives and enterprise value of 5.65
times that level.  That compares with Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS’s 5.74
times 2011 Ebitda, and a 4.7 times multiple at Telekomunikacja
Polska SA, Poland’s largest phone company, which also owns a
fixed line business, according to Bloomberg data.  Polkomtel, operator of the Plus brand, has more than 14
million customers for voice and third-generation wireless
services. It competes with Polska Telefonia Cyfrowa, owned by
Deutsche Telekom AG, and France Telecom SA’s Orange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  