-- 
Canadian Stocks Decline After TD, CIBC Miss Earnings Estimates

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-05-26T16:58:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/potash-corp-toronto-dominion-bank-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks fell, led by
financial companies, after  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce missed analysts’ earnings estimates
and the U.S. reported an increase in initial jobless claims.  CIBC,  Canada ’s fifth-largest lender by assets, dropped 3.6
percent after its second-quarter profit trailed the average
analyst estimate by 2.7 percent, excluding certain items.  Lundin
Mining Corp. (LUN) , a base-metals producer with operations in  Europe ,
plunged 19 percent after halting plans to sell itself.  Silver
Wheaton Corp. (SLW) , Canada’s fourth-largest precious metals producer,
slumped 1.4 percent as silver retreated.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index slipped 41.52
points, or 0.3 percent, to 13,709.95 at 12:36 p.m. in Toronto.  “The bank earnings have been a slight disappointment, and
there had been some anticipation of positive numbers,” said  Bob Decker , a  money manager  at Aurion Capital Management in Toronto,
which oversees C$5.7 billion ($5.8 billion). “It’s also in the
context of an overall market setback, mainly to do with the
disappointing economic backdrop.”  The S&P/TSX gained 2.3 percent this year through yesterday,
less than half the advance of the  S&P 500 , after outperforming
its U.S. counterpart each of the last seven years. Raw-materials
producers have declined this year as base-metal prices have
retreated and commodity exchange-traded funds have attracted
investment that might have otherwise gone into gold stocks. The
assets of the world’s commodity ETFs have more than doubled
since the end of 2009, according to BlackRock Inc.  Unemployment Claims  Last week, 424,000 Americans filed first-time unemployment
claims, more than all 47 economist estimates in a Bloomberg
survey, the U.S. Labor Department said today.  Also today, the U.S. Commerce Department said the country’s
economy grew at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the first quarter,
the same as it estimated last month. All but four economists in
a Bloomberg survey had forecast the department would revise the
growth figure higher.  Seven of the eight S&P/TSX banks declined after TD and
CIBC’s earnings lagged behind the average estimates of analysts
in Bloomberg surveys.  CIBC lost 3.6 percent, the most in 10 months, to C$81.45
after missing analysts’ quarterly profit estimate by the most
since 2009. TD, Canada’s second-largest lender by assets,
decreased 2 percent to C$83.59 after its earnings trailed the
average analyst estimate by 1.3 percent, excluding certain
items.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the country’s biggest bank, slipped
1.1 percent to C$59.16.  Low Bids  Lundin sank 19 percent, the most in 28 months, to C$6.92
after abandoning efforts to sell the company because the bids it
received were too low.  Inmet Mining Corp (IMN) , the base-metals producer that agreed to
buy Lundin in January, fell 3.1 percent to C$67.05. Lundin
scrapped the Inmet deal to adopt a so-called poison pill defense
against a rival, unsolicited bid from  Equinox Minerals Ltd. (EQN) 
 First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , Canada’s second-largest publicly
traded copper producer, retreated 2.1 percent to C$129.21.  Silver Wheaton fell for the first time in seven days,
losing 1.4 percent to C$35.32 as silver dropped the most in
eight days. Precious metals declined after the Financial Times
said Asian investors may buy Portuguese bailout bonds, citing
Klaus Regling, chief executive officer of the European Financial
Stability Facility.  Gildan Activewear Inc. (GIL) , Canada’s largest clothing-maker,
rallied 4.1 percent to C$35.83 as North American apparel
companies gained after Guess? Inc. forecast earnings higher than
the average analyst estimate.  Niko Resources Ltd. (NKO) , which produces oil and gas in  South
Asia , jumped 6 percent, the most in 11 months, to C$78.  India 
may increase fuel prices this fiscal year, an Indian oil-
ministry official said today. The official asked not
to be identified because the decision is not yet public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  