-- 
Prada Leads Luxury Goods Makers Facing the Future With Hong Kong Listings

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-05-25T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/prada-leads-luxury-goods-makers-facing-the-future-with-hong-kong-listings.html
Lines snaking outside  Louis Vuitton ,
Hermes, and Prada shops are a regular sight along  Hong Kong ’s
Canton Road, the preferred haunt of Chinese tourists on
shopping sprees. Now the Chinese city is becoming a shopping
destination of another sort: It’s a favored place for global
brands looking to raise money on the stock market.  Prada SpA, the Milan-based luxury goods house, may raise
$2 billion through its initial public offering in Hong Kong,
according to two people with knowledge of the deal. The Italian
maker of Miu Miu bags and Church’s shoes follows cosmetics and
skin-care maker L’Occitane Internationale SA, which raised $840
million in the former British colony last year.  Prada’s choice of Hong Kong’s stock exchange over bourses
in Milan,  London , and  New York  is more evidence the world’s
economic center of gravity is shifting to  Asia , Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its May 30 edition. “Companies want to
face their future, not their past,” said Sam Kendall, head of
 equity capital markets  for Asia Pacific at UBS.  The flurry of international listings is helping Hong Kong,
where mainland Chinese companies have raised $167 billion over
the past decade by going public, add to its IPO tally.  Companies raised $51.8 billion through 95 IPOs on Hong
Kong’s stock exchange last year, compared with a total of
$48.22 billion in 196 deals on the New York Stock Exchange and
Nasdaq. So far this year, 26 companies in Hong Kong have gone
public raising $7.70 billion, compared with 86 deals worth
$26.17 billion in the U.S.  Building Brands  With Asians accounting for as much as 50 percent of luxury
sales globally, a Hong Kong listing is a no-brainer, said Aaron Fischer, head of consumer and gaming research at brokerage CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets. “Most of the growth is here,” he said.
“So as a brand-building exercise, it makes sense to be close
to your customers.”  Chinese consumers, including those shopping abroad, will
account for more than half the increase in global sales of
 luxury goods  over the next decade, said Fischer, who is based
in Hong Kong.  Samsonite LLC chose Hong Kong for its IPO mainly because
of growth prospects in Asia, said a person familiar with the
matter who asked not to be identified because the information
is private. The U.S. luggage maker plans to open stores in 140
cities in China, which has the most growth potential for its
business, said Ramesh Tainwala, the company’s president of Asia
Pacific and Middle China.  Handbags, Jewelry  Such factors were also important to  Coach Inc. (COH) , the
largest U.S. handbag maker. It plans to list shares, in the
form of depositary receipts, in Hong Kong before the end of the
year to “raise awareness of the Coach brand among investors
and consumers in the  China  market,” Chief Executive Officer
Lew Frankfort said in a statement.  Prada is scheduled to set a price range on June 6 and list
in Hong Kong on June 24, according to a sale document.  Hong Kong’s pipeline also includes an initial share sale
by the jewelry unit of billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung ’s  Chow Tai
Fook Group , which may raise as much as $4 billion, two people
with knowledge of the matter said.  Resourcehouse Ltd., the Australian coal and iron-ore
company controlled by  Clive Palmer , is seeking as much as
HK$28.2 billion ($3.6 billion) in an IPO in Hong Kong,
according to a term sheet for the sale.  Cornerstone Investors  Another attraction of Hong Kong is it allows investment
banks to make deals with wealthy investors to buy shares before
marketing the deal to the public. Such “cornerstone”
investors typically agree to hold their shares for six months
after buying at the offering price.  Their participation can make it easier for companies to
build enthusiasm for the offering. “The retail guys are very
affected when they see some billionaire willing to lock himself
in for six months,” said George Lin, Asia head of consumer,
retail and health care investment banking at Credit Suisse AG.  The initial share sale of MGM China Holdings Ltd., the
Macau venture of  Kirk Kerkorian ’s casino company, may raise as
much as $1.5 billion for  Pansy Ho , who is selling part of her
stake. Kirk Kerkorian and a  trust fund  controlled Hong Kong
property magnate  Walter Kwok  are among the cornerstone
investors, according to the prospectus.  New China Life Insurance Co., the Chinese insurer backed
by  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) , hired at least eight banks
for the Hong Kong portion of an initial public offering that
may raise as much as $5 billion, people with knowledge of the
matter said.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
raised $2.1 billion in 2010, and Swiss commodities trading
group Glencore International Plc. allocated part of its $10
billion global IPO to Hong Kong retail investors.  “A Hong Kong listing will raise the profile with all the
suppliers and customers we deal with over there,” Glencore CEO
Ivan Glasenberg said. “We thought it was very important to be
involved in this region.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  