-- 
Qatar Decision to Limit Islamic Banking May Cut Bank Profits by 22 Percent

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-05-25T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/qatari-banks-profit-from-lending-may-decline-on-tighter-rules.html
Qatar’s decision to restrict Islamic
banking and introduce limits on consumer borrowing may reduce
profit by as much as 22 percent for banks in the world’s
fastest-growing economy.  Net income estimates for Commercial Bank of Qatar QSC, the
nation’s second-largest bank, were cut 22 percent, or 478
million riyals ($131 million) on the rule changes by analysts at
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  last month. They also cut their estimates
for  Doha Bank QSC (DHBK) , the fourth-biggest lender, by 10 percent,
according to a report to clients.  Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK) , the
country’s biggest lender by assets, will be hurt by slower loan
growth and a disruption to its strategy from the decision,
Nomura International Plc analysts said last month.  The central bank in February told all conventional lenders
to wind down their Islamic banking divisions and to stop taking
Islamic deposits immediately on concern they may be using funds
from the conventional bank for Islamic loans. The regulator last
month also reduced the amount banks can lend to Qataris to 2
million riyals from 2.5 million and to foreigners to 400,000
riyals and limited the interest lenders can charge on the loans
to 1.5 percentage points over the  bank rate , at 5 percent today.  “The impact is negative for the conventional banks,
although the opportunities are very large for Islamic finance,”
said  Jaap Meijer , head of the bank team at Dubai-based Alembic
HC Securities. “If you leave banks on their own, they start to
be short-term oriented and be quite reckless with their lending
and that is what the Qatar central bank wants to prevent.”  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest bank, said this week it
will shut its Islamic banking unit in Qatar by the end of
December to comply with the central bank’s decision.  Shariah Rules  Islamic banks are required to follow Muslim Shariah rules,
which ban the payment and receipt of interest as well as
investments in industries like alcohol and gambling. Islamic
lenders pay a profit instead of interest, and their loans are
backed by assets that may include an agreement where the bank
and the borrower agree on the cost and a profit margin.  Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied natural
gas, predicts the economy will expand by 15.7 percent this year,
helped by fuel exports, according to the General Secretariat for
Development Planning. Growth will ease to 7.1 percent in 2012
and to 4 percent by 2013 as early investment for the 2022  World
Cup  fails to replace falling energy investment.  The central bank imposed the regulations because there was
a risk that conventional deposits would be used for Islamic
lending,  Raghavan Seetharaman , chief executive officer of Doha
Bank, said in an interview. There was “systemic risk to them
both,” and therefore a need to separate them, he said.  Stocks Downgraded  Spokesmen for Qatar National Bank and  Commercial Bank of
Qatar (CBQK)  declined to comment on the rules.  Because the changes “have negative implications on growth,
we think the time has come to turn less positive on the
sector,” Mohamad Hawa, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG,
said in a research report last month. The bank reduced its
target price of Commercial Bank of Qatar by 20 percent and of
Doha Bank by 16 percent and cut its rating to neutral.  Islamic loans accounts for 20 percent of Qatar National
Bank’s lending, 11 percent of Doha Bank’s and 8 percent of
Commercial Bank of Qatar’s, according to an Alembic HC report.
Alembic said it expects Qatar National Bank to wind down its
Islamic banking and Commercial Bank to sell it loans.  Qatar
Islamic Bank (QIBK)  SAQ, the country’s biggest Islamic bank, is likely
to benefit because it may be able to increase its 29 percent
share of the market for Islamic loans in Qatar, Alembic said.  Lending Slows  Qatar has seven conventional banks, which pay and receive
interest on deposits and loans, four Islamic lenders, which
don’t, and seven foreign institutions operating in the country,
including the HSBC unit that is scheduled to close. Domestic
bank credit grew at more than a 40 percent annual rate from 2006
to 2008, then slowed to 14.1 percent in 2009 and 16.7 percent in
2010, government data show.  For conventional banks, the impact on earnings of winding
down their Islamic banking divisions will be “slim to none,”
Ryan Ayache, a Dubai-based analyst at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  said.
People confused the growth of the last two years as coming from
Islamic banking while it actually came and continues to come
from the government, Ayache said.  Qatar has the world’s fastest-growing economy and the
highest per-capita gross domestic product, according to the CIA
World Factbook, and a population of about 1.7 million. Along
with the  United Arab Emirates , Qatar hasn’t experienced the
anti-government protests that spread elsewhere in the region.  ‘Gap Is Closed’  “Islamic banking used to be more profitable, not
anymore,” said Doha Bank’s Seetharaman. “Banks would earn a 4
percent margin on Islamic loans and a 3 percent to 3.25 percent
margin on conventional lending,” he said. “Now the gap is
closed” because of new competition in Islamic banking, he said.  Qatar isn’t the only country in the region to have framed
new rules on  consumer lending . The U.A.E. announced regulations
earlier this year that came into effect May 1 to curb excessive
bank lending and cap some service fees. It didn’t restrict
Islamic lending by conventional banks.  The U.A.E. capped personal loans at 20 times a borrower’s
monthly salary and its repayment period to 48 months, while
overall instalments for all loans, including personal, car,
housing and credit cards, must not exceed 50 percent of a
borrowers’ gross salary and any regular income.  Raj Madha, a Dubai-based analyst at Rasmala Investment Bank
Ltd., said he scaled down his forecast of consumer loan growth
in Qatar this year to about 5 percent from 8 percent to 10
percent earlier after the new lending rules.  Earnings Outlook  Qatari banks earned up to 9 percent interest on retail
loans, which is now capped at 6.5 percent, Hawa at Credit Suisse
estimated. A percentage point decline in yield on consumer loans
will erode Qatar National’s profit by 2.5 percent, Commercial
Bank’s by 4.3 percent and Doha Bank’s by 8.4 percent, he said.  The rules so far haven’t hurt banks’ profits. Qatar
National reported a 35 percent jump in first-quarter profit to
1.7 billion riyals, Commercial Bank had a 9 percent rise to 446
million riyals and Doha Bank said profit grew 15 percent to 363
million riyals.  Qatar National’s shares have risen 6 percent since the
regulator’s decision in broke in February. Commercial Bank has
dropped 15 percent and Doha Bank has shed 15 percent.  “People are getting nervous” because the rules are
designed to promote stability rather than growth, said Ayache at
Deutsche Bank. “Why is there a need for more stability in the
banking sector that is not known to be unstable?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  