-- 
QPR Vice Chairman Quits Post at Ecclestone-Owned Team After Boardroom Row

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-05-25T19:33:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/qpr-says-vice-chairman-quit-ecclestone-owned-team-after-boardroom-dispute.html
Queens Park Rangers, which this month
won promotion to English soccer’s top league, said vice chairman
Amit Bhatia quit after a boardroom disagreement.  Bhatia is the son-in-law of Lakshmi Mittal, the metals
billionaire whose family owns a third of the west London team.
QPR also said Ishan Saksena, chairman of QPR Holdings Ltd., had
“parted company” with the club, which is majority-owned by
Formula One chief  Bernie Ecclestone . The team survived a probe
by  England ’s Football Association into a player signing that
could have cost QPR a promotion-blocking penalty.  “Bhatia has stated his disagreement with some of the
decisions taken by the board majority, namely season ticket
prices and changes in the club management following the handing
of the F.A. inquiry,” QPR said on its website. While ticket
prices have risen by up to 40 percent, the team said prices are
in line with other London clubs, and early sales figures had
been encouraging.  Bhatia confirmed that Mittal wished to buy the stakes in
the club owned by Formula One’s Ecclestone -- who rebuffed the
idea -- and Flavio Briatore.  The boardroom turmoil casts a major cloud over QPR’s return
to the elite division after 16 years. Following years of
upheaval, the team had appeared to have regained some stability
since Ecclestone and the Mittals took over in 2007. Last year
they employed Neil Warnock as coach and he led the campaign to
winning the second-tier Championship.  ‘Heavy Heart’  “It is with a heavy heart that I tender my resignation,”
Bhatia said in an open letter to fans cited by Press Association
Sport. “However, it is clear to me from recent board meetings
that my vision, strategy and direction for the club is very
different from that of the other shareholders and board
members.”  He added that the “decisions to sack club CEO and chairman
Ishan Saksena and significantly increase season ticket prices
are just two of the decisions I disagree with.”  Bhatia said he’ll “continue to be a 33 percent owner and a
100 percent fan of the club” and a board representative will be
appointed to look after the family’s investment.  Since promotion was achieved there’s been speculation over
Warnock’s future, with Italian coaches Claudio Ranieri and
Marcello Lippi linked with the role.  At the end of last season there were concerns that the team
might be blocked from returning to the top league even if it
finished in the promotion places. However it avoided a points
penalty over alleged irregularities in the signing of Argentine
midfielder Alejandro Faurlin in 2009.  QPR was fined 875,000 pounds ($1.4 million) after two of
seven charges were proved.  Promotion to the Premier League is worth about 90 million
pounds in television rights and other revenue, accountant
Deloitte LLP estimates.  A call to QPR wasn’t picked up outside business hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  