-- 
Travelport Seeks Dismissal of AMR Suit in Ticketing Dispute

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-05-25T17:01:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/travelport-asks-court-to-dismiss-amr-suit-in-ticketing-dispute.html
Travelport Ltd.  asked a  U.S. federal
court  to throw out an antitrust lawsuit filed by American
Airlines, saying the claims are being used to gain power in
contract negotiations.  The suit is part of a growing dispute between some U.S.
airlines and global distribution systems such as Travelport over
control of flight and fare data made available to travel agents.
American, based in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , wants to bypass such
distributors and substitute its proprietary technology.  “This is not a genuine antitrust lawsuit brought by
consumers suffering from excessive or artificial price
increases,” Travelport said in the response filed today in U.S.
district court in Fort Worth. “It is an opportunistic lawsuit
brought by a large and powerful company seeking to enhance its
already substantial commercial bargaining leverage.”  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American sued Travelport and  Orbitz Worldwide
Inc. (OWW)  in April. The airline claimed Travelport was retaliating
against it for pushing use of its own technology and was working
with Orbitz to exclude competition. Those companies denied the
charges. Travelport owns 48 percent of Chicago-based Orbitz, the
second-largest U.S. online travel agency.  “American firmly believes that Travelport’s conduct has
harmed not only American, but also U.S. consumers, and is in
violation of the federal antitrust laws,” said Ryan Mikolasik,
an outside spokesman for the airline.  Travelport, a closely held company based in Atlanta, also
argued in today’s filing that American couldn’t prove claims
that Travelport exerted monopoly power in the distribution of
flight and fare data to travel agents.  U.S. Investigation  The U.S.  Justice Department  on May 20 said it was
investigating possible antitrust violations by Travelport and
Sabre Holdings Corp., another large U.S.-based global
distribution system. American is in talks with Sabre to settle a
separate lawsuit, and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  sued Sabre last
month, alleging that it was trying to block competition.  The Travelport case is American Airlines Inc. vs Travelport
Ltd., Travelport LP and Orbitz Worldwide LLC, 4-11-cv-00244-Y,
Northern District of Texas (Fort Worth).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  