-- 
RBA’s Battellino Sees Subdued Credit Easing Pressure on Economy

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-05-25T23:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/rba-s-battellino-sees-subdued-credit-easing-pressure-on-economy.html
Australian household borrowing may
grow more slowly in coming years as consumers save more, buoying
deposits and lowering banks’ reliance on wholesale funding,
central bank Deputy Governor Ric Battellino said.  “In the economic climate likely to be faced by banks over
the next few years -- solid economic growth but with cautious
behavior by households and relatively low inflation -- it would
be reasonable to assume that the rate of growth in credit will
remain somewhere in the single-digit range,” Battellino said in
the text of a speech today in Sydney. “The most likely scenario
is that household borrowing will continue to grow at a
relatively subdued rate for some time yet.”  Such restraint would be welcome to “avoid households
adding to pressures in the economy at a time when its productive
capacity is already being stretched by the resources boom,”
Battellino said in the speech to the 2011 Annual Stockbrokers
Conference.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia has held the official cash
rate at 4.75 percent for the past six months as weaker retail
sales, a slowdown in record jobs growth and higher household
savings give mining more capacity to expand. Battellino said
bank deposit growth is outpacing credit growth, allowing lenders
to reduce the number of bonds they need to sell to fund loans.  RBA’s Tightening  Australia’s central bank boosted borrowing costs by 175
basis points, or 1.75 percentage points, from October 2009 to
November last year as mining investment, job growth and overseas
demand propel the nation’s economy. That contrasts with the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s policy of a benchmark rate near zero since
December 2008.  Battellino said  Australia  is seeing soft business credit at
a time when business investment is high.  “This unusual conjuncture arises largely from the fact
that the strength of investment at present is concentrated in
the resources sector, and is being funded mainly by the large
amounts of cash that resource companies are generating from
existing operations,” he said.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said in a report yesterday that Australian  house prices  are
likely to peak in 2011 or 2012.  Battellino said household loan arrears remain “relatively
low” compared with many countries as incomes grow solidly in an
economy with low unemployment. Pockets of “housing stress”
have been seen in parts of Queensland and  Western Australia ,
where the nation’s mining boom is centered.  First-Time Buyers  A group that bears “close watching” is first-home owners
who were drawn to the market by government grants and are “now
vulnerable to rising interest rates,” Battellino said. Even so,
they don’t seem to be disproportionately represented in loan
arrears, he said.  Australia’s household savings rate, which reached 9.7
percent at the end of last year from 1.5 percent three years
earlier, may increase further, Battellino said.  “It is still below its historical highs and strong
employment and income growth could provide the wherewithal for
higher saving to coexist with steady consumption growth, he said.  Household spending accounts for 54 percent of Australia’s
economy and a government report last week showed retail sales
unexpectedly fell 0.5 percent in March, the first decline in
five months. Sales adjusted to remove inflation stagnated in the
three months through March from the previous quarter.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  