-- 
Ready to Erase Whiteboards, IdeaPaint Lands 1,700 Lowe’s Stores

-- B y   K e n   S t i e r
-- 
2011-05-25T15:02:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/ready-to-erase-whiteboards-ideapaint-lands-1-700-lowe-s-stores.html

(Corrects the spelling of John Goscha’s last name. Changes the
unit of measurement in the seventh paragraph. Changes the
relationship of School Specialty from sole distributor to
primary distributor in the eighth paragraph.)  In 2008, John Goscha was finally ready to
find distributors for  IdeaPaint,  a new paint he had invented to
turn any wall into a dry-erase surface for writing and doodling
that can easily be wiped clean.  Having spent about $500,000 during the formula’s five-year
development, he and Jeff Avallon, his vice-president of business
development, were fretting about how to win enough orders to
keep the Ashland, Mass., upstart chugging along. The natural
venue -- NeoCon, the mammoth annual commercial interiors
conference for architects and designers -- was just weeks away
in  Chicago , but there was a basic conceptual hitch: Exhibitors
were limited to renting small booths. “There was no way we were
going to be stuck in a 4x4 booth ... but I said, ‘I’ll buy as
much wall space as you will sell me,” Avallon recalls.  For $30,000, IdeaPaint acquired more than 3,000 square feet of
wall space during the three-day event. To stimulate
experimentation among the 40,000 attendees, dozens of local art
students were deployed to cover the walls of the eight-story
venue with dry-erase marker doodles. The stunt led to the first
of several commercial distribution deals, beginning with MDC
Wallcoverings, one of the largest in its sector in the U.S.  Today the 23-employee company’s deceptively simple product
appears to be on its way to steal a meaningful share of the $2
billion worldwide white board market. Backed by about $15
million in  venture capital , it manufactures the paint in
 Illinois  and has about 5,000 people working at least part-time
selling it through its distributors, according to Chief
Executive Officer Bob Munroe. After regional roll-outs last
year,  Lowe’s (LOW)  started selling it in each of its 1,700-plus
stores in April. “It’s a very intriguing product ... especially
when you think of children’s rooms -- or even teenagers’ rooms,”
says Karena Bailey, Lowe’s merchandising vice-president.  While many of Corporate America’s seven million conference rooms
have white boards, IdeaPaint’s Chief Marketing Officer Marcus
Wilson says its paint offers a quantum leap in creativity and
collaboration. Coat a room with it and any meeting participant
can chime in -- not just individuals nearest the board --
stimulating interaction. Professionals who work in areas that
demand lots of collaboration, or at least large sketches, are
normally the first to glom onto IdeaPaint. Interest often
spreads throughout companies, says Avallon.  CONVENIENCE AND ‘COOL FACTOR’  Digital advertising shop HUGE has close to two-thirds of its
Brooklyn, N.Y., office’s walls covered with IdeaPaint. “You can
feel free with your ideas, and not all of them are going to be
great. That’s okay -- you can just erase it and start all over,”
says HUGE partner Michal Pasternak. Promising sketches are
photographed before they are erased, then shared like documents.
Flexible office space facility Cambridge Innovation Center in
 Boston  started using the paint expansively last fall; much of
its 130,000-square-foot space is covered now. “It definitely has
the ‘cool factor’ that we strive to include to make our space
unique and keep our clients coming back,” says Anna Whitlock, a
customer ‘relationship manager’ at the space.  Schools are a further obvious target, says IdeaPaint’s Munroe,
who says that the educational market may eventually rival the
company’s commercial sales. There are 2.7 million classrooms in
the U.S. alone, with one or two boards each. Many still use
chalk, which is messy and aggravates asthma. Heavily used dry-
erase boards periodically need replacing or recoating because
they become riddled with faint tracings of previous writings.
IdeaPaint, which can be painted over chalk boards and white
boards, is 30 percent to 70 percent cheaper than white boards.
IdeaPaint guarantees its $199.50-per-kit commercial version for
life; its $175 home version is guaranteed for 10 years. (Each
kit can cover 50 square feet.)  Breaking into the educational market won’t be easy. Buyers
differ widely, from teachers to principals to facilities
managers, across the nation’s 16,000 school districts and
140,000 schools. “Once we get to the decision-maker, frankly, it
is a very easy sale. The trick is understanding who that
decision-maker is,” explains Munroe. Supplemental learning
product distributor  School Specialty (SCHS)  is set to kick off
sales of IdeaPaint in June as its primary distributor for
schools. Undaunted by budget cuts, Munroe says IdeaPaint can
save schools money, citing  Alaska ’s second largest school
district, Matanuska-Susitna. By installing IdeaPaint rather than
new whiteboards, the district saved $650,000 across its 44
schools, he says.  In the commercial market, IdeaPaint has inked additional
distribution deals, including Glidden Professional, part of Akzo
Nobel, the world’s largest paint company, and  Staples’s (SPLS) 
contract division, which accounts for about half of Staples’s
approximately $24 billion in annual sales. Internationally,
IdeaPaint is currently pushing its commercial line in only 20
countries. Ten to 15 new markets will be added next year,
according to Morgen Newman, vice-president of international
sales. IdeaPaint will offer training, not just for sales and
marketing teams, but also for workers who will be applying the
paint. International markets account for about 15 percent of
total sales and Newman expects them to gradually increase to
roughly one-third over the next several years.  A MARKETING DREAM FOR MUNROE  Why did Munroe, 50, a veteran marketer who spent 15 years in
marketing at  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Procter & Gamble (PG), 
followed by a decade at  Reebok (ADS:GR),  join the management
team of a company with only $12 million in sales last year? He’s
giddy about IdeaPaint’s prospects, especially as sales are being
primed by spending 35 cents of every sales dollar on marketing
and brand awareness, compared to the 10 cents to 15 cents a more
mature brand would spend. Projecting over $24 million in 2011,
he expects sales to continue doubling annually through 2014.  If the projections become reality, David W. Riggs, president of
CAS-MI Laboratories in Ypsilanti, Mich., will deserve partial
credit. In 2006, IdeaPaint founder Goscha sought the help of
that independent testing lab to improve his prototype after two
other labs had failed to better it significantly. It was a “real
challenge from a physics standpoint, in terms of adhesion,
cohesion, surface tension,” recalls Riggs. Not only did the
paint need to work with every dry-erase marker on the market, it
also needed to adhere to a wide variety of substrata -- wood,
metal, and chalkboard. “I would say if anyone deserves a lot of
credit for making this product possible, I would say it is
definitely CAS-MI Labs,” says Goscha, now 27, who is also
grateful for the $300,000 line of credit Riggs extended to
IdeaPaint at a make-or-break moment.  Protecting IdeaPaint’s intellectual property is critical, of
course. It has had four patents published already and has
applied for others. These precautionary measures -- aided by the
Boston law firm Choate Hall & Stewart -- were enough to ward off
one competitor when it came out with something that seemed to
infringe. “I feel confident that we will get the patents that we
have applied for and that those will have a substantial impact
on this industry -- so far, so good,” says Goscha, who hatched
IdeaPaint when he was a 19-year-old freshman at Babson College.
While he serves as an adviser to IdeaPaint and remains a
substantial shareholder, he left the company last year to start
another venture. Goscha’s new business is based on another
bright idea -- he hopes to improve on Edison’s incandescent
light bulb.  To contact the reporter on this story: Ken Stier at
 kenstier@earthlink.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  