-- 
Treasury Five-Year Note Yield Falls Toward Lows on Strong Auction Demand

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-05-25T21:08:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/treasuries-erase-losses-after-five-year-note-auction-draws-stronger-demand.html
     May 25 (Bloomberg) -- Treasury five-year note yields fell
to almost the lowest this year after the U.S. $35 billion
offering of the securities attracted the strongest demand since
1994.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with amount of securities offered, was 3.20, compared
with 2.77 last month and an average of 2.82 at the past 10
sales. Indirect bidders, which include foreign central banks,
bought the most since September. U.S. 30-year bonds fell as
stocks rebounded amid rising commodities prices.  “We’ve had a couple of very good auctions so far,” said
David Coard, head of fixed-income trading in  New York  at
Williams Capital Group, a brokerage for institutional investors.
“The domestic economy is still sluggish, we still have the
European sovereign debt crisis, there is still concern about
growth globally.”  The yield on the current five-year note fell one basis
point to 1.76 percent at 5 p.m. in New York, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the 2 percent note
due April 2016 rose 1/32 or 31 cents to 101 3/32. The yield
touched 1.73 percent May 23, the lowest since Dec. 8.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note rose one basis
point to 3.13 percent. The yield touched 3.09 percent on May 18,
the lowest since Dec. 7. Thirty-year bond yields gained three
basis points to 4.28 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.3 percent.  Bid Trends  The note sale, the second of three note auctions this week
totaling $99 billion, drew a yield of 1.813 percent, compared
with the average forecast of 1.830 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of eight of the 20 primary dealers obliged to participate
in  U.S. debt  offerings.  Indirect bidders purchased 47.1 percent of the notes,
compared with 40 percent at the April 27 auction and an average
of 41.6 percent for the past 10 sales.  Direct bidders, non-primary dealers that place their bids
directly with the Treasury, purchased 8.9 percent of the notes.
They bought 11.2 percent of the securities at each of the last
two sales and compared with an average of 10.2 percent at the
past 10 offerings.  The offering is the second of three this week totaling $99
billion. The Treasury sold $35 billion in two-year debt
yesterday and is scheduled to sell $29 billion of seven-year
notes on May 26.  Fed Buys  “There are more people short than long right now, which
means that we’re automatically well set up right now” for
tomorrow’s auction, said Brett Rose, an interest-rate strategist
with Citigroup Global Markets in New York, a primary dealer. A
short position is a bet that an asset will decline in value
while a long position is a wager that the security will rise in
value.  The  Federal Reserve  bought $4.8 billion of U.S. debt due
from April 2013 to September 2013 today as part of its efforts
to sustain the U.S. economic recovery.  Treasury 10-year note yields touched a level below their
200-day moving average for the first time since December on
speculation  Europe ’s debt crisis is getting worse and the  U.S.
economy  is weakening.  The European Central Bank council member  Christian Noyer 
said yesterday an austerity program was the only possible
solution for  Greece , which this week endorsed an asset-sale plan
and 6 billion euros ($8.4 billion) of budget cuts.  Treasury Holdings  Treasuries held in custody by the Fed for foreign central
banks have risen 2.2 percent since the end of March to $2.7
trillion, according to central bank data.  “Everyone wants the bonds,” said Ira Jersey, an interest-
rate strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York, a primary
dealer. “What’s the alternative when you have big foreign
exchange reserves? Do you go to the euro which might fall apart
at any minute or do you go to the U.S. where, sure we have some
deficit problems and the like, but they are quantifiable and
known issues.”  Vice President  Joe Biden  set a goal of at least $1 trillion
in budget cuts from negotiations with congressional leaders on
the federal debt as talks turned to Medicare, a contentious
issue that risks replicating a partisan divide on  Capitol Hill .  Democrats in the meeting yesterday ruled out concessions on
Medicare without Republican agreement to raise  tax revenue , a
step the party’s leaders so far have rejected, according to
someone familiar with the talks who spoke on condition of
anonymity. Biden underscored the issue in remarks to reporters
afterward.  Orders for goods meant to last at least three years fell
3.6 percent, the most since October, after a 4.4 percent jump in
March, a Commerce Department report showed today in  Washington .
Economists projected a 2.5 percent drop in April, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The data’s getting quite weak,” said Thomas di Galoma,
managing director of U.S. government securities at Oppenheimer &
Co. in New York. “Three percent is certainly in the cards, if
not lower yields” on 10-year notes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  