-- 
Treasury 10-Year Notes Little Changed After U.S. Durable Goods Orders Fall

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-05-25T15:47:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/treasury-10-year-notes-little-changed-before-35-billion-5-year-note-sale.html
Treasuries were little changed before
the U.S. sells $35 billion of five-year securities in the second
of three note offerings this week totaling $99 billion.  Yields on five-year notes were at almost the lowest level
this year before the auction. The Treasury’s sale yesterday of
two-year notes was priced at 0.56 percent, the lowest auction
rate since 0.52 percent on Nov. 22. Orders for U.S. durable
goods dropped in April more than forecast.  “We’re at the lows and we do have supply today and
tomorrow,” said Gary Pollack, head of fixed-income trading at a
Deutsche Bank AG private wealth management group in  New York 
that oversees $12 billion. “It’s not surprising that the market
is finding it a little hard to rally, given where we are right
now in terms of valuations.”  Benchmark 10-year note yields were little changed at 3.13
percent at 11:44 a.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The price of the 3.125 percent note due May 2021
fell 3/32 or 94 cents to 100. Yields on five-year notes were
little changed at 1.77 percent after touching 1.73 percent on
May 23, the lowest level since Dec. 8.  The  Federal Reserve  bought $4.8 billion of U.S. debt due
from April 2013 to September 2013 today as part of its efforts
to sustain the U.S. economic recovery.  Treasury 10-year note yields touched a level below the 200-
day moving average for the first time since December on
speculation  Europe ’s debt crisis is getting worse and the  U.S.
economy  is weakening.  European ‘Overhang’  European Central Bank  council member  Christian Noyer  said
yesterday an austerity program was the only possible solution
for Greece, which this week endorsed an asset-sale plan and 6
billion euros ($8.4 billion) of budget cuts.  A Greek debt restructuring would leave the nation’s lenders
dependent on the European Central Bank for the foreseeable
future, according to Moody’s Investors Service, underscoring the
central bank’s opposition to such a move. Repayment extensions
or voluntary swaps -- what European officials term “soft
restructuring” -- would constitute a default and foreclose
Greece’s access to capital markets for a “sustained period,”
Moody’s said in a note yesterday.  “Europe and  Greece  continue to be an overhang on the
market that limit the ability for yields to increase while
they’re still a flight-to-safety bid for the U.S.,” said Larry Dyer, a U.S. interest rate strategist with HSBC Holdings Plc in
New York, one of 20 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.
“The European and U.S. economies are still having relatively
slow growth. That makes the needed restructuring that much more
painful.”  Fed on Hold  Traders are betting the Fed will postpone raising  interest
rates  as the economic recovery slows. The odds of an increase by
the central bank’s March 2012 meeting fell to 32 percent from 50
percent a month ago, futures contracts indicate.  The central bank is  scheduled  to purchase $4 billion to $6
billion of Treasuries due from November 2012 to November 2013
today as part of its plan to spur the economy.  “We are close to the high tide for easy monetary policy,”
St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said in Cape Girardeau,
 Missouri , yesterday. “If all goes well, we will be in a good
position to take back some of the accommodation in the second
half of the year or after that depending on how the economy
performs,” said Bullard.  Treasuries rose yesterday after the government’s $35
billion auction of two-year notes attracted the highest demand
since January.  Auction Numbers  The bid-to-cover ratio, which compares total bids with
amount of debt sold, climbed to 3.46, a four-month high. The
notes drew a yield of 0.56 percent, compared with an average
forecast of 0.562 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of nine of
the Fed’s 20 primary dealers, the companies that underwrite the
 U.S. debt .  The five-year notes being sold today yielded 1.82 percent
in pre-auction trading, compared with 2.124 percent at the prior
sale on April 27.  Investors bid for 2.77 times the amount offered last month,
compared with the average of 2.82 for the past 10 auctions.
Indirect bidders, the category of investors including foreign
central banks, bought 40 percent of the notes, down from 42.4
percent at the March sale.  The Treasury will conclude this week’s note auctions with
the sale of $29 billion of seven-year debt tomorrow.  Orders for goods meant to last at least three years fell
3.6 percent, the most since October, after a 4.4 percent jump in
March, a Commerce Department report showed today in  Washington .
Economists projected a 2.5 percent drop in April, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The data’s getting quite weak,” said Thomas di Galoma,
managing director of U.S. government securities at Oppenheimer &
Co. in New York. “Three percent is certainly in the cards, if
not lower yields” on 10-year notes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  