-- 
REC May Resume Norway Wafer, Cell Output in October, CEO Says

-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-05-25T15:22:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/rec-may-resume-norway-wafer-cell-output-in-october-ceo-says.html
Renewable Energy Corp. ASA expects
production at its Norwegian solar wafer and cell plants to
restart in October as demand improves and prices rebound, Chief
Executive Officer Ole Enger said.  The Sandvika, Norway-based company yesterday announced it
was halting production at its Heroeya and Narvik plants in
 Norway  because of “plunging” prices for solar wafer and cells
in the last few weeks, caused by “total closure of the Italian
market,” Enger said today in an interview in Oslo.  “I can’t see anything that can stop us from developing a
competitive position” in Norwegian production, Enger said,
whose company yesterday announced it will lay off 500 workers in
July. “We hope the market will recover earlier, so we can
restart earlier.”  The price of solar cells, the main component of
photovoltaic panels, dropped in May as supply hit the market and
demand was curbed by European cuts to solar subsidies, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance said. Monocrystalline cell prices slumped 7.5
percent to $1.14 per watt from the previous month and
multicrystalline cells were down 8.7 percent at $1.09 per watt,
according to a report by Martin Simonek, an analyst at the
London-based research company.  Italy in March announced it would bring in new rules for
the solar market, reducing subsidies that were to be in place
until 2013 and the country this month passed a law which will
progressively lower subsidies through the end of next year.
The Italian market became the second-largest in  Europe  following
 Germany  last year after the government offered the highest feed-
in tariffs in the region.  “We do see demand picking up quite considerably now,”
Enger said on the Italian market.  “We expect that to continue
in the next weeks and months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  