-- 
Three Reactors at Japanese Plant Have Melted Fuel, NRC Says

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-05-25T18:10:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/three-reactors-at-japanese-plant-have-melted-fuel-nrc-says-1-.html
Three reactors at  Japan ’s stricken
power plant have melted fuel rods and it may take longer than
nine months to gain control at the site, said William Ostendorff, a member of the U.S.  Nuclear Regulatory Commission .  About 55 percent of the radioactive fuel rods in the Unit 1
reactor at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant
melted after a March 11 earthquake and tsunami, Ostendorff said.
About 30 percent of the rods in unit 2 and 35 percent of the
fuel in reactor 3 also melted, he said at a hearing of the
Senate Environment and Public Works Committee.  The Japanese utility is trying to put the reactors into a
cold shutdown, where core temperatures fall below 100 degrees
Celsius (212 degrees Fahrenheit). Senator  Barbara Boxer , a
California Democrat and committee chairman, said the plan calls
for a shutdown within six to nine months. Ostendorff said chance
of meeting the goal, on a 10-point scale, is six or seven.  The NRC is conducting a safety review of U.S. reactors to
determine if tougher regulations are needed. The agency may have
a draft report ready by mid-July, Ostendorff said. The failure
of pressure-relieving venting systems at the Japan plant is a
“key part” of the review, he said.  “If we need to make changes to our regulatory framework as
a result of this accident, we will,” Ostendorff said.  Entergy Corp. (ETR) , the second-largest U.S. nuclear operator,
and  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  have said U.S. reactor owners may need to
retrofit their plants or bolster safety systems after the
failure of the Fukushima vents. The venting systems let
engineers release pressurized gas to avoid dangerous hydrogen
explosions during a reactor accident.  Lines Destroyed  The disaster in Japan destroyed  power lines  and diesel
generators at the Fukushima plant, depriving cooling systems of
electricity. Fuel rods overheated, causing fires, explosions and
radiation leaks in the worst nuclear accident since the 1986
Chernobyl disaster.  There are probably holes in the containment chambers of the
three damaged reactors at the Fukushima site, Tokyo Electric
said today, citing computer simulations.  Ostendorff testified today at a hearing on his nomination
to a full, five-year term at the NRC. President  Barack Obama 
appointed Ostendorff last year to replace Dale Klein, who
resigned before the June 30 expiration of his term. Klein was
chairman of the NRC under President  George W. Bush . Obama has
asked the Senate to vote to keep Ostendorff on the commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  