-- 
Roche Leads Deadly Skin Cancer Turnaround as Dozen Drugs Coming

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-05-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/roche-leads-deadly-skin-cancer-turnaround-as-dozen-drugs-coming.html
Cheryl Stratos says she was given
only six to eight months to live by her doctors after melanoma,
the deadliest of skin cancers, spread in her body.  Stratos, a 46-year-old from McLean,  Virginia , who owns an
advertising sales company, began using the drug vemurafenib in
an experimental trial in February 2010. Last month, the tumors
in her liver and lungs had become barely detectable, “giving me
my life back,” Stratos said.  The treatment, from Swiss drugmaker  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and
Daiichi Sankyo Co. of  Tokyo , is part of a revolution in cancer
biology. Metastatic melanoma has long been a death sentence,
killing 8,700 Americans a year. Now medicines from Roche,
Daiichi,  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  GlaxoSmithkline Plc (GSK)  are
among a dozen in advanced testing that are starting to rewrite
the prognosis for patients like Stratos.  “The science has exploded,” Stephen Hodi, director of the
melanoma center at  Dana-Farber Cancer Institute  in  Boston , said
in a telephone interview. “We are entering a golden age of
melanoma therapies.”  New drugs are giving researchers an unprecedented ability
to combine treatments and prolong survival, Hodi said. While the
therapies don’t provide a cure, they show how progress can be
made by aiming at the genetics of tumors or harnessing the
body’s defenses to fight off invading cancer cells.  Data on the newest melanoma drugs are among the more than
2,500 studies on cancer treatments that will be presented at the
meeting of the  American Society of Clinical Oncology  that starts
June 3 in  Chicago .  $1.5 Billion in Sales  For pharmaceutical companies, success in melanoma also may
lead to billions in sales. New York-based Bristol-Myers’s
 Yervoy , the first to extend advanced melanoma survival when it
was approved March 25, costs $120,000 for a standard course of
four doses and may reach $1.5 billion in sales by 2015,
according to Bloomberg survey of four analysts.  Vemurafenib, the drug from Stratos’s trial, may generate
700 million Swiss francs ($796 million) in revenue by 2015,
according to  Jack Scannell , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. in  London .  Roche, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , has submitted the
therapy for regulatory approval in the U.S. and  Europe . Doctors
are set to report at the cancer meeting that vemurafenib helps
patients with advanced melanoma live longer.  Glaxo, with three drugs in the final stage of development
for melanoma, will present at the meeting one of the first
studies combining two experimental medicines attacking different
molecules that encourage cancer growth.  Combination Therapy  The study combines Glaxo’s GSK2118436 drug, which blocks
one mutated protein that spurs melanoma’s spread, with a
treatment that thwarts a related growth-promoting molecule to
keep cancer from evading treatment, said Perry Nisen, a senior
vice president at the London-based drugmaker.  The study may provide a clue to whether the approach to
control resistance is viable, said Ramya Kollipara, an analyst
at Decision Resources in Burlington,  Massachusetts .  Survival from advanced melanoma may double over the next
five years to ten years as new treatments come online, from 10
months to 20 months, said Antoni Ribas, an oncologist at the
 University of California, Los Angeles , who treats Stratos.  “There is no doubt that melanoma is the hottest cancer in
oncology,” he said in an e-mail. “It is a triumph of science
translated to patients with unprecedented benefits.”  The excitement is tempered by decades of failure. Until
this year, there were only two approved drugs for treating
advanced melanoma, and neither had been proven to prolong life.
Melanoma drugs from companies including New York-based  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest drugmaker,  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and Glaxo have
stumbled in final development stages.  Chicago Cubs Fan  “Being a melanoma doctor is not unlike being a Chicago Cubs
fan,” said George Sledge Jr., president of the  American Society
of Clinical Oncology  and an oncology professor at  Indiana
University ’s Cancer Center, referring to the U.S. baseball
team’s 103 years without winning a  World Series .  “For the first time, though, we have not one but two drugs
that are moving the needle for melanoma,” he said of Yervoy and
vemurafenib, the most-advanced treatments for skin cancer.
“This is a sea change for the melanoma guys.”  The disease strikes 68,000 Americans each year, according
to the  American Cancer Society . While patients with early stage
disease respond well to treatment, the five-year survival rate
for those with cancer that has spread is 15 percent.  The new medicines have limitations. Yervoy has led to long-
lasting remissions in a small minority of patients, and yet most
patients don’t get dramatic benefits. It extended life by a
median of four months in the trial that led to its approval, and
can cause fatal inflammation of the intestine and other organs.  Beyond Expectations  Vemurafenib and Glaxo’s similar GSK2118436 have shrunk
tumors at a rate “beyond our most optimistic expectations,”
 Ribas  said in an interview. Yet patients on vemurafenib have
often stopped responding after six or seven months, he said. The
drugs are linked to an increased risk of other, less serious
skin cancers.  Still, advances in melanoma show how researchers can make
progress against even the toughest cancers by attacking tumors
on multiple fronts, Hodi said.  Drugs like vemurafenib aim to slow cancer by hitting a
mutation in a protein called BRAF that drives growth in half of
all melanomas, including Stratos’s tumors. Yervoy and similar
medicines in trials work indirectly by unleashing the body’s
immune system to attack and kill cancer cells.  A crucial clue leading to vemurafenib and GSK2118436 came
in 2002 when  British gene researchers  found that some patients
had a mutation in the growth-promoting gene BRAF.  First Gene Aberration  “That was the first frequent genetic aberration in
melanoma” that could easily be targeted with drugs, said  Jedd
Wolchok , a melanoma expert at  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
Center  in New York, in a telephone interview. “The pharma
companies really went after that.”  One company that jumped on the lead was closely held
Plexxikon Inc. of Berkeley,  California . The company was
purchased Feb. 28 by Daiichi for up to $935 million.  Company scientists made a crystal structure of the mutant
protein that enabled them to test it against potential
compounds, and by 2005 had devised the drug vemurafenib that
blocked it. Human trials with partner Roche began in 2006.  Three years later, an Internet search for a clinical trial
brought vemurafenib to Stratos. After Stratos failed to qualify
for trials of vemurafenib at Sloan-Kettering because she had not
tried chemotherapy, her husband, Michael Stratos, called “every
hospital” until he tracked down Ribas who was performing the
trial at UCLA.  Stratos started on the medicine on Feb. 28, 2010, and has
had side effects including a “horrible burning flaming rash all
over” and flu-like symptoms, she said.  Two months later, the tumors had shrunk 30 percent on a
computed tomography scan. They continued to gradually shrink and
a PET scan last month showed virtually no activity in her
remaining small tumors, Stratos said.  “It is amazing,” she said. “I am one of the lucky ones,
one of the outliers it is working for long term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  