-- 
Federer, Djokovic, Wozniacki Advance to Third Round of French Open Tennis

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-05-25T16:45:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/roger-federer-beats-france-s-teixeira-in-second-round-match-at-french-open.html
Roger Federer  defeated France’s
Maxime Teixeira in straight sets to reach the third round at the
 French Open . Novak Djokovic advanced when his opponent retired
with a thigh injury.  The 29-year-old Federer, winner of a men’s record 16 Grand
Slam singles titles and the third seed at  Roland Garros  in
Paris, beat the 22-year-old Teixeira 6-3, 6-0, 6-2.  The Swiss lost serve just once in the match and had to use
his second serve only four times as he shut out Teixeira in the
second set.  “I was happy the way I played at the beginning,” Federer
told reporters. “As I said the other day, I think the first set
was important for me to see what the match would look like, and
then during the second and third sets it was easier.”  Federer has dropped behind  Rafael Nadal  of Spain and Djokovic of Serbia in the ATP World Tour rankings since winning
his lone title in Paris two years ago. Last year, his record run
of 23 consecutive Grand Slam semifinals ended when he lost to
Sweden’s  Robin Soderling  in the quarterfinals.  Second-seeded Djokovic was leading Victor Hanescu 6-4, 6-1,
2-3 when the Romanian pulled out. The victory sets up a meeting
with Argentina’s Juan Martin del Potro, and extends Djokovic’s
winning streak to 39 matches from the start of the year. No. 25
seed Del Potro got past Slovenia’s Blaz Kavcic in straight sets.  Wozniacki Wins  Seventh seed David Ferrer of Spain beat France’s Julien Benneteau 6-3, 6-4, 6-2, and Janko Tipsarevic, the 29th seed
from Serbia, defeated Pere Riba of  Spain  6-1, 6-3, 6-0.  Sergiy Stakhovsky of Ukraine defeated Kei Nishikori of
 Japan . No. 9 seed Gael Monfils of France also won, as did Steve Darcis of Belgium.  Top-seeded  Caroline Wozniacki  beat Aleksandra Wozniak of
Canada 6-3, 7-6 (8-6) to reach the third round. The 20-year-old
Dane is attempting to win her first Grand Slam championship.  She will keep the top ranking on the WTA tour if she makes
the quarterfinals in Paris. Kim Clijsters could pass Wozniacki
only if the Belgian wins the title at Roland Garros and
Wozniacki is beaten in the early rounds.  “I started off really well, and everything was going the
way I wanted it to,” Wozniacki told reporters. In the “second
set she played better. I started to play a little bit worse.
Thankfully I finished it in two sets.  It could easily have been
three.”  Stosur Advances  Last year’s runner-up, Samantha Stosur of Australia,
defeated Romania’s Simona Halep 6-0, 6-2, and Julia Goerges, the
17th seed from Germany, beat Lucie Safarova of the Czech
Republic 2-6, 7-5, 6-2. Svetlana Kuznetsova, the 13th seed from
 Russia , got past Romania’s Irina-Camelia Begu, while 10th seed
Jelena Jankovic of  Serbia  beat Vera Dushevina of Russia.  Bethanie Mattek-Sands, the highest-ranked U.S. woman in the
tournament at No. 34, beat another American, Varvara Lepchenko,
6-3, 2-6, 6-3. No. 14 seed Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova of Russia
and Canada’s Rebecca Marino also reached the third round.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  