-- 
Roger Goodell Says NFL Labor Deal Needed to Avoid Missing Camp, Preseason

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-05-25T20:43:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/roger-goodell-says-nfl-labor-deal-needed-to-avoid-missing-camp-preseason.html
National Football League teams owners
and players risk missing training camps or other events if they
don’t reach a labor agreement soon, Commissioner Roger Goodell
said.  “We don’t have a date but obviously that time is coming,”
Goodell told reporters at a league meeting in Indianapolis.
“We’re getting closer to the point where those will have to be
considerations.”  The NFL in March locked out players, who sued the league
for antitrust violations in federal court, led by Super Bowl-
winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and  Drew Brees .  Goodell said he told Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels and
other elected leaders yesterday that the NFL continues to plan
to conclude next season at the  Super Bowl  title game in
Indianapolis, scheduled for February.  Owners also spent time during the meeting discussing plans
for the league’s kickoff celebration and other activities in
preparation for playing a full season for the U.S.’s most-
popular sport, he said.  “That’s fully our intention,” Goodell said. “We are
approaching the 2011 season as we would any other.”  New York Giants owner John Mara said it’s too soon to
consider canceling or shortening his team’s training camp in
 Albany , New York. He said talks with players will reach a new
accord.  “You’re going to have a Super Bowl in Indianapolis,” he
said. “I’m confident.”  Goodell said that players looking for new contracts and
teams looking to fill gaps in their rosters may suffer because
the lockout has delayed free agency.  “That’s why this uncertainty is, I think, a disadvantage
to everybody,” he said.  Goodell said he doesn’t want the league to miss any more
scheduled events. The NFL said yesterday that its annual rookie
symposium had been canceled.  “Obviously, we’d prefer to get a negotiated agreement so
we don’t have to make those decisions,” Goodell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 