-- 
Rongsheng May Deliver Two Large Ore Ships in 2011, Six Fewer Than Planned

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-05-25T10:34:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/rongsheng-to-deliver-two-or-three-very-large-ore-ships-this-year.html
China Rongsheng Heavy Industries
Group Holdings Ltd. may deliver as few as two very large iron
ore carriers this year, six fewer than planned, because of
delays in building the vessels that cost about $140 million each.  The shipbuilder will hand over two or three of the 400,000
deadweight ton vessels to  Vale SA (VALE3)  in September or October, Chief
Executive Officer Chen Qiang said today in an interview in Hong
Kong. It will boost VLOC deliveries next year and doesn’t expect
to have to pay compensation for the delays, he said.  Rongsheng also intends to win its first order for a 10,000-
container vessel this year, as it works to pare its reliance on
commodity ships, Chen said. Dry-bulk vessel orders have tumbled
worldwide as a glut of new ships has caused rates to fall 67
percent in a year, according to the benchmark Baltic Dry Index.  “The weak bulk-shipping market was possibly good for
Rongsheng because customers may not have been in a rush to put
ships into service,” said Cho In Karp, head of research at
Heungkuk Securities Co. in  Seoul . “Still, the delivery delays
show that Chinese yards still need to do a lot of work to win
overseas clients’ confidence.”  Vale, Oman Shipping  Rongsheng has orders for 16 400,000 deadweight ton VLOCs
from Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, and Oman
Shipping Co. The company intended to deliver eight of the ships
this year, according to its IPO prospectus.  “We have reached a consensus with the shipowners,” Chen
said. “They hope we won’t sacrifice quality for time.”  The shipbuilder fell 1.2 percent to HK$5.04 at the close of
trading, reversing earlier gains of as much as 4.3 percent. The
company has plunged 37 percent from its November initial public
offering price, compared with a 3.8 percent drop for the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  The company plans to get 40 percent of sales from
shipbuilding by 2015, 20 percent from marine engineering, as
much as 25 percent from machine engineering and the rest from
making engines, Chen said. Last year, about 94 percent of the
company’s 12.7 billion yuan of sales came from shipbuilding.  To help boost revenue, Rongsheng may buy engine-makers and
small shipbuilders, Chen said. The company last month agreed to
buy diesel-engine maker Anhui Quanchai Group Corp. for 2.1
billion yuan.  Orders Target  Rongsheng expects to win $3 billion of ship orders this
year, with about 50 percent coming from China, Chen said. Its
profit margin will likely be similar to last year’s figure or
about 22 percent, even as the yuan strengthens and steel prices
increase, Chen said.  The shipbuilder plans to focus its dry-bulk operations on
building Panamax vessels, rather than smaller capesizes, as
these ships can be used for a wider range of products including
food, he said. Government ownership rules are also boosting
demand for Panamaxes to be used on domestic routes, Chen said.  “I see good prospects for Panamaxes -- but not for other
types -- because demand for domestic shipping in coastal  China 
is strong,” he said. “Shipowners also want to buy Panamaxes on
the outlook for rising demand for shipping food.”  The company has won 14 panamax orders so far this year,
including 10 from China, he said. Dry-bulk vessels accounted for
89 percent of Rongsheng’s orderbook by value at the end of last
year, with the rest split between container vessels and  oil
tankers .  The company is in talks with a “few shipowners” on its
first order for ships able to carry 10,000 20-foot containers as
well as for contracts to build 6,500-container vessels, Chen
said. He didn’t elaborate on the size of any potential order.  The shipbuilder is bolstering its technology to make more
advanced vessels including liquefied natural gas tankers and
offshore ships as demand for dry-bulk vessels wanes. The company
delivered a deepwater pipe-laying ship to China National
Offshore Oil Corp. yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in  Hong Kong  at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  