-- 
Roubini Global Economics Research and Strategy Now on Bloomberg

-- B y  
-- 
2011-05-25T21:25:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/roubini-global-economics-research-and-strategy-now-on-bloomberg.html
                                
Press Release  Bloomberg Tradebook clients have direct access to independent
research  NEW YORK -- Roubini Global Economics (RGE), the market strategy
and economic research firm, founded by economist  Nouriel
Roubini , announced today that its daily output of in-depth
economic analysis and strategy views is available on the
Bloomberg Professional service.  “This is just another example of our ambition to ensure the
output of the 40 strategists, economists and analysts who work
with me are available across multiple platforms,” said Mr.
Roubini, RGE’s chairman. “On a cell phone, on the Bloomberg
Professional service and via Bloomberg Anywhere, our clients can
access our horizontal view of world markets and the global
economy.”  Bloomberg Tradebook’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and
President, Raymond M. Tierney III, said, “Roubini Global Economics
is a strong addition to our research offering.  Our clients
value independent and niche perspectives that expand their
existing research content. We believe that Roubini Global
Economics will provide actionable ideas.”  Previously only available on Roubini.com, the Bloomberg
Professional service now carries RGE’s Economic Research, with
links to tables and charts, and RGE Market Strategy analysis and
reports, with asset class investment recommendations and
commentary.  Bloomberg Tradebook  can allocate part of their
trading commission spend to get time with Roubini analysts.
To learn more about RGE Economic Research or Market Strategy via
your Bloomberg, contact:  bloomberg-request@roubini.com .  Roubini Global Economics
Roubini Global Economics (RGE) is the independent, global
economic and market strategy research firm built by renowned
economist, Nouriel Roubini.  RGE provides a view into the
dynamics and developments within the global economy - showing
how those changes can impact  investment decision  making. Founded
in 2004, RGE has offices in  New York  and  London , and its clients
include leading asset managers, commercial and investment bank,
central banks and government, and academic institutions.  © Roubini Global Economics 2011  #<761373.6922700.2.1.87.23378.2660>#
 