-- 
Russia’s RTS-Index Futures Advance After Oil, Commodities Gain

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-05-25T21:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/russia-s-rts-index-futures-advance-after-oil-commodities-gain.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
gained, signaling stocks may rise today in Moscow, as oil
climbed to a two-week high and commodities gained.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in June
advanced 0.6 percent yesterday. Contracts on OAO Rosneft, the
country’s biggest oil producer, rose 0.8 percent while those on
OAO Lukoil, the second-largest, added 0.5 percent. Futures on
OAO Gazprom, the world’s top gas producer, climbed 0.6 percent.  “Oil drives Russian assets higher,” Olga Efremova, an
analyst at Nomos Bank in Moscow, said in a phone interview.
‘There is a clear correlation between commodities prices,
particularly  oil prices , and demand for Russian assets.”  Russia is the world’s largest energy exporter. Crude oil
for July delivery rose 1.6 percent to $101.18 a barrel on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since May
10, after a report showed that U.S. inventories of distillate
fuel, a category that includes diesel and heating oil, tumbled
to the lowest level in more than two years as consumption
increased. Oil has gained 47 percent in the past year.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
rose 1.6 percent, the most in a week. Russia produces metals
including gold, silver, copper, nickel, palladium and aluminum.
Oil and natural gas account for a quarter of its economic
output.  Copper rose the most in a week as Deutsche Bank AG said
prices probably will climb, echoing similar forecasts from
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Lukoil, Gazprom  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, rose 1.9 percent. Lukoil’s American
depositary receipts also added 1.9 percent. Gazprom’s ADRs
advanced 1.1 percent.  The Micex Index gained 1 percent to 1,614.86 yesterday in
Moscow, reversing an earlier loss of as much as 1.3 percent.
Lukoil rose 1.9 percent and OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s
biggest mining company, added 0.9 percent. Sberbank, jumped 1.7
percent. The three companies have a combined weighting of 38
percent in the 30-stock gauge. The dollar-denominated RTS Index
added 0.5 percent to 1,808.13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  