-- 
Ryan, Gingrich and GOP Medicare Trap

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-05-25T13:07:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/ryan-gingrich-and-gop-medicare-trap-1-.html
Newt Gingrich  is not the only
Republican in a difficult spot over House Budget Committee
Chairman  Paul Ryan ’s Medicare-slashing budget. As election
results in New York’s 26th Congressional District have
confirmed, the whole GOP is.  Gingrich’s travails began when he called the Ryan plan a
piece of "right-wing social engineering." True, under fire the
former House speaker apologized to his "close friend" Ryan. And,
yes, he did laughably make the case that quoting him accurately
would constitute a gross ethical violation. “I want to make
sure every House Republican is protected from some kind of
dishonest Democratic ad," Gingrich said. "So let me say on the
record, any ad which quotes what I said on Sunday is a
falsehood."  Most important is what Gingrich didn’t do in all his to and
fro since the firestorm began: take back what he had said about
Ryan’s plan. Gingrich still hasn’t given a full-throated
endorsement of the Ryan plan. In fact, he told radio host
William Bennett, "I just said I am for the process of improving
it. I didn’t say I was for the plan as it currently exists. I
think that is an important distinction."  In voting to transform Medicare into a private insurance
system in which seniors over time would be responsible for an
increasingly large share of their health-care expenses,  House
Republicans  exempted those 55 and older. Gingrich sees what his
party, in its hubris, could not: This sleight of hand isn’t
going to protect them from the wrath of oldsters at the ballot
box. The GOP didn’t count on these presumably greedy geezers
caring about the next generation as much as their next
cholesterol test. But those currently benefiting from Medicare
fully understand what it will be like for their children to
enter the ruthless private insurance market armed with a
tattered voucher and a bundle of pre-existing conditions.  Dangerous Embrace  To understand just how dangerous the GOP’s embrace of the
Ryan plan may be in 2012, consider yesterday’s special election
in upstate New York to replace former Representative Chris Lee,
who resigned in February after advertising himself shirtless
among the used futons on Craigslist. Special elections are
notoriously idiosyncratic. This one, complicated by a third-
party candidate, has no effect on the balance of power in
 Washington . Still, the fact that this solidly Republican
district was won by a Democrats by 48 percent to 43 percent
should have Republicans concerned -- and does.  In 2010, Lee won this Republican stronghold with 73 percent
of the vote. This time around, Democrat Kathy Hochul won the
race by attacking Republican candidate Jane Corwin’s support for
the Ryan plan. A pre-election poll showed that about a fifth of
voters in the district consider Medicare the top issue. Among
that group, Hochul was taking almost 80 percent of the vote. The
more Hochul hammered Corwin’s support for the Ryan plan --
unions launched their own ad featuring a Medicare card being
torched -- the higher Hochul rose. By the election’s eve, she
had surpassed Corwin in two public polls and never looked back.  Senators Oppose Plan  All of which explains Gingrich’s fudging. It also raises an
interesting question. Will other Republicans join Gingrich in
throwing Ryan under the bus or will they throw Gingrich beneath
the wheels instead? Three Republican senators --  Lisa Murkowski 
of  Alaska ,  Susan Collins  of  Maine  and  Scott Brown  of
 Massachusetts  -- have already announced they will either oppose
the Ryan plan (Brown and Collins) or have serious reservations
about it (Murkowski). Running for re-election in a blue state,
Brown explained his opposition in Politico.com, writing that it
would be a mistake to "change Medicare as we know it."  As he runs for president, Gingrich has no desire to become
a pariah in his party, though Republican strategists now expect
an onslaught of Democratic ads making the case that, yes, even
Newt Gingrich says the Ryan plan is extreme. (Thanks for
nothing, Newt.) Several of his erstwhile allies, including
columnist Charles Krauthammer and radio host  Rush Limbaugh , have
made known their displeasure with his remarks on RyanCare.  Gingrich’s Weaknesses  Gingrich’s gaffe reminds his party of his elephantine
weaknesses: intellectual vanity, self-love, an insatiable
appetite for melodrama and a constant yearning to place himself
at the center of history. As a congressman, Gingrich led
Republicans to the promised land, overthrowing a  Democratic
Party  that had ruled the House for most of the previous six
decades. He also shut down the government out of pique, ran
afoul of ethics laws, and pursued an affair with a House staff
member even as he was denouncing -- and impeaching -- President
 Bill Clinton  for similar sexual misconduct. For this aging
Lothario, now on his third wife, long walks on the beach don’t
suffice; Gingrich racked up as much as $500,000 in debt to
Tiffany’s. Campaigning in  Iowa  last week, Gingrich was
confronted by an angry Iowan who demanded that he get out of the
race before he makes a bigger fool of himself.  Taking the Heat  Yet Gingrich also attracted crowds in his first week of
campaigning, and despite all his vulnerabilities, he clearly
prefers to take heat for his apostasy rather than wed his
fortunes to RyanCare. He may be onto something. As a self-styled
man of destiny, Gingrich knows One Big Thing: An unwillingness
to endorse the House Republicans’ plan in the GOP primaries will
cause him plenty of trouble. But a candidate who embraces
RyanCare’s deep Medicare cuts may find the GOP nomination isn’t
worth much in a general election. Old people love their
Medicare. And as Republicans have discovered in upstate  New
York , it looks as if they’re pretty fond of the next generation,
too.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Editor: Francis Wilkinson  Click on "Send Comment" in sidebar display to send a letter to
the editor.  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  