-- 
S. Korea Plans to Clamp Down on ‘Unfair Trading’

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-05-25T04:57:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/s-korea-plans-to-clamp-down-on-unfair-trading-.html
South Korea  plans to clamp down on
stock market manipulation and trading on undisclosed information
after $26 billion was wiped from the value of the nation’s
listed companies in a matter of minutes last November.  The  Financial Services Commission  is drafting revisions to
capital-markets laws to increase penalties, said Ernst Lee, a
spokesman at the regulator. The revisions, which will require
approval by the National Assembly, may be submitted as early as
June and would help seize profits made from “unfair trading,”
Lee said by phone today.  Deutsche Bank AG received in February the heaviest penalty
ever imposed on a securities firm in South Korea when it was
banned from trading shares and derivatives for its own account
for six months, starting in April. The regulator said the bank’s
employees conspired to manipulate the market on Nov. 11 by
selling 2.44 trillion won ($2.2 billion) worth of shares in the
last minutes of trading that day to make gains from
“speculative” derivatives positions built in advance.  Michael West , a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Deutsche
Bank, was not immediately reachable for comment via telephone
and e-mail today.  Scrutiny of equity-market swings has increased globally
since a 20-minute drop in U.S. equities on May 6 last year
briefly erased $862 billion of market value.  Foreign investors’ combined holdings in the South Korean
stock market account for 36 percent of total market value,
according to data from Korea Exchange Inc. Global funds sold
more Korean stocks than they bought today for a 10th day, the
longest losing streak since March 2009, bourse data show.  The benchmark Kospi stock index fell 0.6 percent to
2,049.01 at 1:51 p.m. in Seoul. The gauge has fallen 0.1 percent
this year, compared with the MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s 4.7
percent slump.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in  Seoul  at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  