-- 
Scene Last Night: James Gorman, Bobby Valentine, Stoudemire

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-05-25T21:25:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/scene-last-night-james-gorman-bobby-valentine-knicks-amar-e-stoudemire.html
James Gorman ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s chief
executive officer, apologized last night for his crooked bow-
tie. His wife was out of town and he had to tie it on his own,
he told 650 guests at the Japan Society 2011 Annual Dinner.  Gorman was wearing the perfect cufflinks for the event at
the Waldorf Astoria: ovals displaying the Japanese flag on one
side, the American flag on the other.  The bilateral accessories go well with the recent deal in
which  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  agreed to convert its
preferred shares in Morgan Stanley to a 22 percent common equity
stake.  “It’s a model of things to come,” Gorman said of the
transaction completed last month.  The American and Japanese executives in the room, among
them Masaaki Tanaka, CEO for the Americas of the Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., nodded in assent as they dug into tuna
rolls, edamame, and filet of beef.  Cross-cultural exchanges in the arts, sports and
philanthropy were also celebrated.  Singer/songwriter Akiko Yano played a grand piano as she
sang George Gershwin in English and a jazzy tune in Japanese.
She’ll be performing at  Japan  Society’s midtown-Manhattan home
on Friday, June 3.  Former major league baseball player and manager Bobby Valentine, now an ESPN commentator, accepted the Japan Society
Award.  “I’m the only guy to manage teams in the American,
National and Pacific leagues,” he said of his tenure with the
 Texas Rangers , the  New York Mets  and the Chiba Lotte Marines in
Japan. “I’m also the only guy to be fired in the American,
National and Pacific leagues.”  Earthquake Relief  On a philanthropic note, the Japan Society President
Motoatsu Sakurai gave an update on the society’s  Japan
Earthquake Relief Fund . Since March 12, 18,000 donors have
contributed $7.8 million to help nonprofit agencies in Japan.  The Japan Society was founded in 1907 to foster cultural
understanding between Japan and the U.S. The society’s chairman
is  Wilbur Ross , chairman, chief executive and co-founder of WL
Ross & Co. Board members include Citigroup Inc.’s Alan S. MacDonald and  Carlyle Group ’s Jonathan E. Colby. The event
raised $1.5 million.  Groundbreaking  At the  Highline Stages  club late last night, the  Whitney
Art Party ’s guests were checking each other out or looking
upward to catch a glimpse of 6-foot-10 party co-chairman Amar’e
Stoudemire, a New York Knicks player.  Curator Scott Rothkopf was focused on a big screen where a
computer simulation of the new downtown site of the Whitney
Museum of American Art was playing. The party began just hours
after the official groundbreaking.  “We have 13,000 square feet of terraces that face the High
Line,” Rothkopf said as a camera panned through a virtual
reality filled with art from the museum’s collection.  Associate curator Dana Miller picked the art for the
simulation, which includes a George Segal in one of the outdoor
galleries and in the lobby Glenn Ligon’s “Ruckenfigur” (2009),
a neon sign spelling “America.”  It was a fun task, she said, because she got to choose
without regard to technical concerns like size or weight.  What will be displayed when the museum is scheduled to open
in 2015 has yet to be decided.  “We’re just starting to talk about it,” Miller said over
loud music.  “We have to be bold, radical and revisionist,” Rothkopf
added. “We want to show masterpieces in a surprising context.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 