-- 
SEC Rule Will Let Whistle-Blowers Bypass Internal Programs

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-25T17:43:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/sec-may-let-whistle-blowers-bypass-internal-complaint-systems.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission will let corporate whistle-blowers collect as much as
30 percent of penalties when they report financial wrongdoing,
even when they bypass companies’ internal complaint systems.  SEC commissioners voted 3-2 today in  Washington  to
establish a whistle-blower program to “reward individuals who
provide the agency with high-quality tips that lead to
successful enforcement actions.” The program, part of the SEC’s
rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, expands a bounty system
that was previously limited to insider-trading cases.  In setting the rules, the SEC rejected appeals to require
that whistle-blowers make reports through companies’ internal
compliance programs before going to the agency. Instead, the
regulator increased incentives for internal complaints by
permitting bounties for people whose tips are passed along on to
the agency and expanding the time whistle-blowers can maintain
their place in line at the SEC while reporting to the company.  “Incentivizing -- rather than requiring -- internal
reporting is more likely to encourage a strong internal
compliance culture,” SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in
prepared remarks before the vote.  Commissioner  Kathleen Casey , who joined fellow Republican
 Troy Paredes  in opposing the final rule in today’s vote, said it
“significantly underestimates the negative impact on internal
compliance systems” and could lead to a flood of complaints the
agency would be unprepared to handle.  Madoff Tips  Dodd-Frank called for the SEC to establish the expanded
bounty system after the agency was faulted by lawmakers for
fumbling tips about  Bernard Madoff ’s multibillion-dollar fraud.
Commissioners voted unanimously on Nov. 3 to seek comment on the
program, which will cover whistle-blower complaints dating from
the enactment of the regulatory overhaul last July.  The rule approved today allows the SEC to consider awards
for whistle-blowers ranging from 10 percent to 30 percent of
penalties collected in case where sanctions exceed $1 million.
To qualify, tipsters must voluntarily provide information based
on their own independent knowledge before it is requested by the
SEC or other regulators.  SEC commissioners and staff members received 1,210 comment
letters through yesterday and held more than 50 face-to-face
meetings trying in vain to assuage concerns that the program
would undermine internal systems that were mandated by the
 Sarbanes-Oxley Act  of 2002.  ‘In the Dark’  “Armed with  trial lawyers  and new large financial
incentives to bypass these programs, whistle-blowers will go
straight to the SEC with allegations of wrongdoing and keep
companies in the dark,” the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said in a
statement after the vote. “This leaves expensive, robust
compliance programs collecting dust.”  In a step aimed at bolstering internal programs, the SEC
measure includes a provision for saving a whistle-blower’s place
in line for 120 days if they chose to report to their company
first. It will also consider participation in a company program
in determining the percentage of sanctions awarded as a bounty.  The SEC proposal also aims to protect whistle-blowers
against retaliation, which has been the focus of a lawsuit in
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of  New York . A May
4 opinion from Judge Leonard Sand held that Dodd-Frank says a
person has to report wrongdoing to the SEC -- or be able to seek
protection under other laws -- before receiving legal sanctuary.  The final rule won’t provide protections to those who don’t
report to the SEC, reinforcing the court’s interpretation.  Separately, commissioners voted 3-2 today to propose limits
on the involvement of “bad actors” in Rule 506 securities
sales and offerings. The measure, open for comment until July
14, would disqualify people barred from the securities business
or convicted of a securities-related felony from exemptions that
let issuers raise unlimited capital from accredited investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 