-- 
Senate Rejects House Budget Plan

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-05-26T03:23:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/senate-rejects-house-budget-plan.html
The  U.S. Senate  rejected a House-
passed budget plan that would privatize Medicare, a vote aimed
at putting Republicans on record on an issue Democrats say could
boost them in the 2012 elections.  The Democratic-controlled Senate voted, 57-40, not to
advance the plan drafted by House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican. Yesterday, Democrats seized a
Republican-held House seat in western New York in a special
election that the Democratic candidate turned into a referendum
on Ryan’s deficit-cutting Medicare proposal.  “Last night’s results provide clear evidence that when
voters learn about the Republican plan, ending Medicare as we
know it, they say, ‘no,’” said Senator  Patty Murray  of
Washington, chairwoman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign
Committee. “This is a red district, and Republicans were
expected to win, but everything changed once that conversation
turned to Medicare.”  Republicans said Democrats have failed to offer a credible
budget alternative to curb costs of the government health
program for senior citizens and restore some fiscal balance at a
time of mounting deficits.  Senator  John Cornyn  of  Texas , chairman of the Senate
Republican campaign committee, said Medicare may be trumped by
the economy as an election issue next year. At any rate, he said,
Republicans can get traction on the Medicare issue by pointing
out the lack of Democratic ideas.  ‘What’s the Alternative’  “Ask ‘Where’s the alternative?’” Cornyn said he will
advise his party’s candidates. “‘Where’s your responsible
budget?’”  Siding with Democrats to defeat the Ryan plan were five
Republican senators:  Scott Brown  of  Massachusetts , a first-term
lawmaker who faces voters in a heavily Democratic state next
year;  Susan Collins  and  Olympia Snowe  of  Maine ; Lisa Murkowski
of  Alaska  and Rand Paul of  Kentucky .  “Except for a tiny handful, Senate Republicans voted as a
block for a plan that would end Medicare, would put insurance
bureaucrats between doctors and patients,” Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said after the vote.
“Democrats proved, though, that the Republican plan to end
Medicare is a non-starter here in the Senate. I hope Republican
colleagues will stop pursuing this misguided plan, start working
with Democrats on smart ways to reduce the deficit.”  Obama Budget Plan  At the insistence of Republican Senate leaders, the chamber
also voted on President Barack Obama’s fiscal 2012 proposal
announced in February. Senators voted, 97-0, not to advance the
president’s plan, which would cut $1 trillion from budget
deficits and is silent on broad changes to Medicare and other
entitlement programs.  The Senate also rejected, 55-42, a plan offered by Senator
 Pat Toomey , a Pennsylvania Republican, that included many of
Ryan’s ideas while omitting the Medicare proposal. The Senate
turned back, 90-7, a proposal by Senator  Rand Paul , a Kentucky
Republican, to eliminates scores of programs and balance the
budget in five years.  Ryan’s proposal relies exclusively on spending cuts to
reduce the government’s deficit, slicing $6.2 trillion over 10
years from Medicare and other programs including Medicaid, food
stamps, farm subsidies and Pell college tuition grants. It
wouldn’t balance the government’s books until 2040, in part
because it also would cut corporate and individual tax rates.  Subsidies for Insurance  It calls for replacing the traditional Medicare health-care
system for the elderly with subsidies to buy private insurance,
starting with people who turn 65 in 2022.  The  Congressional Budget Office  estimated that older
Americans would pay a higher percentage of their income for
health care under Ryan’s plan than they do in the current system.  Lawmakers in both parties say Congress must do something to
curb the government’s debt. Negotiations are under way to try to
craft a deficit-reduction plan that could be paired with
legislation needed in the next few months to boost the nation’s
$14.3 trillion debt ceiling.  The proposed overhaul of Medicare, passed by the
Republican-controlled House last month on a 235-193 vote, has
been rejected by some in the party.  Last week, Republican presidential candidate  Newt Gingrich 
called it “right-wing social engineering” and “radical
change.” He later apologized for his remarks.  ‘Ever Higher Deductibles’  Brown announced his position in an opinion article this
week in Politico, days after he told constituents in his home
state that he would vote for the Medicare revamp, while
predicting the measure would fail in the Senate.  In the Politico article Brown said seniors “will be forced
to pay ever higher deductibles” under the plan and that
Medicare has already been cut too much, including as part of the
2010 health-care overhaul.  In the  New York  House race, Democratic candidate Kathy Hochul’s support jumped in the polls after she began focusing on
the Ryan plan.  Hochul, 52, the Erie County clerk, defeated Republican
state legislator Jane Corwin, 47 percent to 43 percent, with 97
percent of the vote counted, according to the Associated Press
tally. Buffalo-area industrialist Jack Davis, who ran on the Tea
Party ballot slot, received 9 percent.  Some Republicans, including House Majority Leader Eric Cantor of  Virginia , attributed Corwin’s loss to the fact that
she had to fight a three-way race.  Public Opposition  Polls show public opposition to the Ryan plan. In a March
4-7 Bloomberg National Poll, 54 percent of respondents said they
would oppose a system in which government vouchers would help
participants pay for their own health insurance, while 40
percent said they would support that. Six percent said they
weren’t sure. The poll of 1,001 adults had a margin of error of
plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  Before today’s vote, some Senate Republicans took to the
floor to defend Ryan’s plan, and to point to ways that Obama’s
policies could yield their own deep cuts to Medicare.  Senator  John Barrasso , a Wyoming Republican, said the
health-care overhaul Obama signed into law last year would
create an independent advisory panel after 2012 to recommend
ways to curb spending under Medicare.  Obama wants “to disguise the long-term impact that the
board’s price controls will have on seniors on Medicare,” said
Barrasso, a doctor. “If he does so successfully, well, the
patients on Medicare will be the big losers.”  Robert Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat, said Republicans
should “abandon their ideological agenda that leaves seniors to
fend for themselves, because it’s not who we are as a people and
it is not what Americans want.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  