-- 
Sentance Says BOE Must Increase Rate as Inflation Persists

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-25T14:23:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/sentance-says-global-inflation-to-persist-boe-must-raise-rates.html
Bank of England policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said growth in Asia and emerging markets will fuel
continued price gains that U.K. policy makers should combat with
higher  interest rates .  “The world inflation climate has become much more
inflationary now, both through the direct effect of rising
energy and commodity prices and through a turnaround in global
demand,” Sentance said in a speech today in Jersey, Channel
Islands. “We should not regard energy and commodity price
movements as one-off shocks.”  Sentance has been voting since June for a rate increase as
U.K. inflation surged to more than twice the central bank’s 2
percent target. While  Spencer Dale  and  Martin Weale  joined his
push earlier this year, the remainder of the nine-member
Monetary Policy Committee voted to keep the key rate at a record
low of 0.5 percent to support the recovery.  Data today showed the U.K. economy resumed expansion in the
first quarter, growing 0.5 percent. Still,  consumer spending  and
company investment dropped the most in almost two years. The
pound rose against the dollar and was up 0.4 percent to $1.6248
as of 3:17 p.m. in London.  Credibility  Sentance, who is to leave the panel at the end of the
month, said the MPC’s refusal to lift the key rate while
inflation has accelerated to 4.5 percent threatens its
credibility and risks entrenching price gains.  “Persistent above-target inflation carries other risks for
 price stability  in the U.K. -- to the credibility of our policy
framework and to expectations of future inflation,” he said at
the event, hosted by the Jersey Chamber of Commerce.
“Continuing to accommodate inflation makes it more likely that
a future sharp policy correction will be needed.”  Sentance said annual price gains in service industries such
as banks and airlines have held at about 4 percent for much of
the past decade, raising the possibility that in this sector,
“high inflation expectations have already become engrained.”  The risk that faster U.K. inflation is here to stay
“cannot be dismissed lightly,” Sentance said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at  shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  