-- 
Shaftesbury Profit Falls 18% After Property Values Increase at Slower Pace

-- B y   T i m   B a r w e l l
-- 
2011-05-25T09:02:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/shaftesbury-profit-falls-18-after-property-values-increase-at-slower-pace.html
Shaftesbury Plc (SHB) , the owner of more
than 500 shops, restaurants and office buildings in central
London, said first-half profit declined 18 percent after the
value of its properties increased at a slower rate.  Net income in the six months through March fell to 100.1
million pounds ($162 million), or 43.1 pence a share, from 122.7
million pounds, or 53.7 pence, a year earlier, the London-based
company said today in a statement. Finance Director Brian Bickell will become chief executive officer on Oct. 1,
Shaftesbury said.  Shaftesbury raised 99.8 million pounds selling shares in
March to fund property purchases as it bet companies would face
financial pressure to sell after banks reined in lending for
commercial property. Shaftesbury’s assets are located in
 London ’s West End district, a hub for shops, restaurants and
theaters that also ranked the world’s most expensive office
location by property adviser CB Richard Ellis Group Inc.  “We complete transactions very swiftly, and that comes
from having the funds ready,” Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Lane said in an interview. “There are always other bidders in
the West End so we’ve got to be able to move quickly.”  Shaftesbury is targeting properties in and around Berwick
Street, where it sees scope for higher rental growth. Rents
there are currently 30 pounds a square foot, less than the
company’s average of 46 pounds, he said. Shaftesbury bought 42
million pounds of properties through March, half of it in Covent
Garden.  Rent Increases  Rents on Oxford Street,  Bond Street  and Regent Street,
central London’s premier retail locations, rose as much as 20
percent last year, Colliers International estimates. London has
the highest proportion of international retailers of any city in
the world because it serves as a base for expanding into the
rest of  Europe , according to CBRE.  Shaftesbury doesn’t have a set number of planned
acquisitions in the pipeline, Lane said, adding that some
purchases are found and completed within a week. It spent 4.8
million pounds on an acquisition in Chinatown in April, he said.  The company expects to benefit from the boost to tourism
that London will see in 2012 with events such as the Olympics
and the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee celebrations, Bicknell said.
“Our tenants are excited, the whole summer should be a
fantastic advert for London.”  Shaftesbury fell by 1 percent in London trading to 518.5
pence as of 10:01 a.m. local time. That cut the annual gain for
the year to 16 percent and reduces the company’s market value to
1.29 billion pounds.  Shaftesbury’s properties appreciated by 49.6 million pounds
in the period, compared with an increase of 111.3 million pounds
a year earlier, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Barwell in London at 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  