-- 
Sharing Costs Is No Way to Fix Medicare

-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 
2011-05-25T01:19:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/sharing-costs-is-no-way-to-fix-medicare.html
Many Republican policy makers appear
conflicted about the budget plan put forward by the House Budget
Committee chairman, Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin . They
are torn because they like its substance, but believe it is bad
politics, especially among elderly voters. In truth, the
substance is not particularly appealing either.  At the heart of the Ryan plan is a shift within Medicare
toward consumer-directed health care -– which in turn is
predicated on increasing beneficiaries’ "skin in the game" to
make the health system more efficient.  While more consumer cost-sharing would help reduce
unnecessary care, the plan would not live up to its billing in
cutting health costs for America. According to the nonpartisan
 Congressional Budget Office , it would do the opposite. That’s
right: The CBO found that the Ryan Medicare proposal would
substantially increase total health-care spending.  Before delving into the Ryan plan in more detail, let’s
take a quick detour into why consumer-directed health-care
reform -– though useful to some degree -– may not be the panacea
it’s often held out to be. The core problem is that health-care
costs are concentrated among expensive treatments for chronic
diseases and end-of-life care -– and even consumer-directed
approaches retain deep third-party insurance against such cases
(which is, after all, the whole point of insurance). Consider
that, if you rank Medicare beneficiaries by cost,  one-quarter of
patients  account for more than 85 percent of total costs. So
even if the other 75 percent spend less on doctors and medicine,
they can’t take a significant bite out of the total.  Experiments With Cost-Sharing  Perhaps the most famous research on consumer cost-sharing
is the  RAND Health Insurance Experiment , which was conducted
with 2,750 families from 1971 to 1982. Each family was randomly
assigned to one of five formulas determining how much of their
medical expenses they would pay themselves.  The RAND results showed that the introduction of cost-
sharing can reduce medical spending without causing harm to
health -– that holy grail of health policy. The biggest
reductions in the RAND study, though, came in moving from zero
expense for families to at least some cost-sharing. As we
already have some cost-sharing in our current system (co-pays
and deductibles), that finding doesn’t suggest a new path to
savings. And, unfortunately, the results from raising cost-
sharing above current levels were generally more modest.  Cutting Back on Medicine  Other evidence, from studies of employers that have adopted
consumer-directed approaches in the form of high-deductible
health plans such as health savings accounts, is similarly
mixed. Significant cost reductions typically occur in the first
year, perhaps because of pent-up demand for  health services , but
these are often partially if not fully reversed in the second
and third years. And some of this research has highlighted a
longer-term concern: To save money in the short run, people tend
to cut back on crucial medicines. This could lead to higher
medical costs over time.  Which brings us back to the Ryan plan. Under that proposal,
starting in 2022, the government would issue new Medicare
beneficiaries a payment that they could use to purchase private
insurance. These payments would increase in line with the
 consumer price index  but not with faster-rising health costs.
The slower increase in payments would generate large savings
(and less risk) for the federal government; indeed, this would
be the single most important driver of savings from the Ryan
budget plan as a whole.  Beneficiaries Pay More  As the government paid relatively less for Medicare,
beneficiaries would bear an increasing share of the cost of
their care. It is no great accomplishment, however, merely to
shift health expenditures from the federal government to
consumers, without doing anything to decrease them in total.  The  CBO’s analysis  of the Ryan plan confirms that federal
expenditures would be reduced, by a lot. By 2030, payments for a
typical beneficiary would be more than 20 percent lower than
current projections, according to the report, and the
beneficiary’s personal costs would increase.  So far, nothing unexpected. On the critical metric of
whether the Ryan plan would reduce total health-care costs,
though, the CBO conclusion is shocking: The plan would not only
fail to decrease health-care costs per beneficiary, it would
increase them –- by an astonishingly large amount that grows
over time. By 2030, health spending on the typical beneficiary
would be more than 40 percent higher under the Ryan plan than
under existing Medicare, according to the CBO report.  Health-care costs would not be reduced on the backs of
seniors; they would be raised on the backs of seniors.  Cost-Containment Machine  How could this possibly be, when the point of reform is to
reduce costs? The CBO points to two factors: Private plans have
higher administrative costs than the federal Medicare program,
and less negotiating leverage with providers.  Everything in life is relative. The CBO’s analysis of the
health-reform act that was passed last year was, well, lukewarm
on its potential to reduce costs. Compared with the Ryan plan,
though, the health reform act comes across as an efficient cost-
containment machine. The truth is that constraining future
health care costs will require a variety of approaches, but in
particular it will mean improving the information that providers
have about their patients and best practices, and the incentives
that providers are given to deliver better care, especially in
expensive cases. To lean exclusively or even primarily on
shifting costs to consumers would be a mistake.  So here’s the message to those vacillating Republican
policy makers: There’s no need to feel guilty about backing away
from the Ryan plan for reasons of political expediency. If your
goal is to reduce health spending significantly, you can safely
retreat from it on its substance.  ( Peter Orszag  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mary Duenwald at 
 mduenwald@bloomberg.net  