-- 
Sony Suspends Canada, Thai Web Pages as Cyber Attacks Spread

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-05-25T08:49:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/sony-ericsson-canada-website-hacked-customer-data-stolen.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , reeling from the second-
largest online data breach in U.S. history, shut down some
Internet services in  Canada ,  Thailand  and Indonesia after
detecting unauthorized intrusions.  Intruders stole the names and e-mail addresses of about
2,000 customers at  Sony Ericsson  Mobile Communications AB’s
Canadian website, while a site in Thailand may have been
modified to help send fraudulent e-mails, spokesman Atsuo Omagari said. The company also suspended a site in Indonesia
because of a suspected attack and found Web codes for the
Japanese music unit were stolen, he said.  The incidents fuel investor concerns over Sony’s online
security after hackers stole data from possibly more than 100
million user accounts last month, crippling its PlayStation
Network and costing the company an estimated 14 billion yen
($171 million). The new intrusions indicate Sony is failing to
contain the situation, analysts including Nobuo Kurahashi said.  “This is getting very serious,” said Kurahashi, who has a
“neutral plus” rating on Sony at  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  in
Tokyo. “What looked like a game-related attack in the U.S. is
spreading to other businesses such as music and to all over the
world. It may take significantly longer than expected for Sony
to get over this.”  Hacking Toll  Sony fell 1.5 percent to close at 2,236 yen in Tokyo
trading, extending its loss this year to 24 percent, triple the
drop by Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  The Canadian site, which isn’t connected to Sony Ericsson’s
servers, was disabled after the security breach was detected
yesterday, the mobile-phone company said.  Sony said it is investigating signs the Thai site was
accessed to conduct so-called “phishing,” a scam where people
send legitimate-looking e-mails to steal personal information
from victims. Sony’s music affiliate in  Indonesia  has suspended
part of its services since May 21 to check whether content has
been altered by an intruder, Omagari said.  “Sony is investigating whether the attacks discovered in
the past week are related to each other,” he said. “Sony
hasn’t found evidence to link those attacks to last month’s
intrusion into the PlayStation Network.”  At  Sony Music Entertainment  (Japan) Inc., hackers have
stolen programming code related to artists’ sites, said
Yoshikazu Takahashi, a spokesman at the unit. He declined to
elaborate on how the company dealt with the situation or give
the number of artists involved in the incident.  Greek Intrusion  Yesterday, Sony said intruders accessed a unit’s website in
 Greece , compromising private information on about 8,500
customers. Less than a week earlier, online-service unit  So-net
Entertainment Corp. (3789)   said  a breach led to the misuse of user
names and passwords of 128 customers.  The company, which posted its biggest annual net loss in 16
years in the 12 months ended March 31, this week cited costs
stemming from the online breach as part of the reason why Sony
no longer expects operating profit to increase this fiscal year.
Output disruptions caused by Japan’s record earthquake in March
will also reduce profit, the company said.  Sony began resuming the PlayStation Network and Qriocity
entertainment services in markets outside  Asia  during the middle
of May, more than three weeks after it suspended services. The
company is sticking to its plans to fully resume the services by
the end of this month, Satoshi Fukuoka, a Tokyo-based spokesman
for Sony’s game unit said today. The company is continuing
efforts to resume the services in Asia, he said.  ‘Hiccup’ Attack  Chairman Howard Stringer, who apologized to users this
month, said in an interview last week that the PlayStation
Network attack was a “hiccup” in its Internet strategy and
that “Nobody’s system is 100 percent secure.”  The company hired three security firms to investigate the
attack and is working with law enforcement officials after
customers and lawmakers said Sony was too slow to inform
consumers about the breach.  A lawsuit filed April 27 in federal court in  San Francisco 
alleges the delay left PlayStation users exposed to losses
related to credit-card  data theft . Officials in  Connecticut , the
U.K. and Ireland began inquiries. The Italian Data Protection
Authority said April 28 it will contact Sony to gather more
information.  Japan ’s government is seeking more information
about Sony’s measures to prevent data theft, the Ministry of
Economy, Trade and Industry said last week.  Malicious attacks  in the U.S. are on the rise. They made up
31 percent of data breaches in 2010, up from 24 percent a year
earlier, with each event costing U.S. businesses an average of
$7.2 million, according to a March report by the Ponemon
Institute. The study found that about 85 percent of all U.S.
companies have experienced one or more attacks.  Anonymous, the hacker group that brought down the websites
of MasterCard Inc. and other payments processors in December,
vowed to retaliate this year after Sony sued 21-year-old George
“GeoHot” Hotz for posting information on how to modify the
PlayStation game console. Sony settled its case against Hotz on
March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho in Tokyo at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  