-- 
Southern Sudan Says North Settling Arab Tribes in Disputed Abyei Region

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-05-25T09:47:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/southern-sudan-says-north-settling-arab-tribes-in-disputed-abyei-region.html
Sudan ’s government is settling Arab
ethnic groups in the disputed region of Abyei after its seizure
of the main town, a Southern Sudanese army spokesman said, while
the  United Nations  reported an attack on its helicopters.  “They are settling Misseriya and Baggara Arab tribes in
Abyei, people who are not from the area,” army spokesman Philip
Aguer said today by phone from Juba, oil-rich Southern Sudan’s
capital. Sudanese army spokesman Al-Sawarmi Khaled, speaking by
phone from Khartoum, rejected the accusation, saying: “There is
no resettlement anywhere.”  Four UN helicopters were fired on yesterday as they took
off from the UN compound in Abyei town, UN spokeswoman Hua Jiang
said. An armed militia from the nomadic Misseriya ethnic group,
which is supported by the northern government, appears to be
behind the attack, Jiang said today by phone from Khartoum,
Sudan’s capital. “They’ve been in the town for days,” she said.  Sudan’s army seized Abyei town on May 21 after accusing
 Southern Sudan ’s security forces of attacking its troops two
days before while they were withdrawing from the region with a
UN convoy. The capture sparked concern that violence may
escalate between northern and Southern Sudan, which fought a
two-decade civil war that ended with a U.S.-brokered peace
accord in 2005.  Troops from the Sudan Armed Forces have reached Bahr al-
Arab, or the Kiir River as it is known in the south, which is
south of Abyei town, Aguer said.  Withdrawal  “The language that we are hearing from the SAF military
leadership is that they are not planning on withdrawing,” he
said.  The north’s troops have become entrenched in several parts
of Abyei region, and they will not withdraw until a new
agreement is reached with Southern Sudan that would guarantee
stability and freedom of movement for all of Abyei’s citizens,
Defense Minister Abdelrahim Mohamed Hussein said May 23.  UN peacekeepers patrolling the area found that burning and
looting of the area around  Abyei town  stopped yesterday, Jiang
said.  “The civilian population has left the town,” she said,
adding that the only people in the area were members of the
Sudanese army and allied militias.  Abyei previously had about 30,000 residents, according to
the UN.  Claims  Both the north and the south claim Abyei, which lies on the
border between the two regions. Before Southern Sudan’s
scheduled independence on July 9, the authorities in the north
and south agreed to withdraw “all unauthorized forces” from
Abyei by May 17.  The Abyei region is contested between the region’s Ngok
Dinka people, who are settled in the area and consider
themselves southerners, and Misseriya nomads who herd their
cattle south in the dry season and are supported by the
government in Khartoum.  The UN  Security Council  has demanded an immediate
withdrawal of Sudan’s forces from Abyei. UN diplomats travelled
to Khartoum on May 21 and were in Juba yesterday.  The Security Council will reassess other options when it
returns to  New York  should a reversal of the status quo not
happen quickly,  Vitaly Churkin , the Russian ambassador to the UN
and  Susan Rice , his U.S. counterpart, told reporters yesterday
in Juba. They didn’t specify what options might be considered.  Referendum Cancelled  Abyei was scheduled to vote in January on whether to join
the south, which voted that same month to become independent, or
remain a special administrative region in the north. The
referendum was canceled because of disagreements over who was
eligible to vote.  The  Permanent Court of Arbitration  in  The Hague , in a 2009
ruling, set Abyei’s borders to the area around Ngok Dinka
settlements, largely excluding the Misseriya. The Misseriya say
that as seasonal inhabitants of Abyei, they should also have the
right to vote.  The court set key  oil fields , including Heglig and Bamboo,
outside of the Abyei region. Those fields and Diffra in Abyei
are run by the  Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Co. , which is 40
percent owned by Beijing-based  China National Petroleum Corp. 
Abyei produces less than 2,500 barrels a day, according to
Sudan’s Oil Ministry.  At independence, Southern Sudan will assume control of
about 75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000
barrels, the third-biggest in sub-Saharan  Africa .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 