-- 
Spirit Air Pares Amount Sought in Initial Public Offering by 37%

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-05-25T19:33:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/spirit-pares-ipo-22-to-15-6-million-shares-as-price-is-cut-1-.html
Spirit Airlines Inc., the budget
carrier owned by Indigo Partners LLC and Oaktree Capital
Management LP, cut the amount of money it’s seeking in its
initial public offering by 37 percent.  The airline may raise as much as $202.8 million later today
selling 15.6 million shares for $12 to $13 each, according to a
regulatory filing and data compiled by Bloomberg. Spirit
previously planned to offer 20 million shares at $14 to $16.  Spirit joined Freescale Semiconductor Holdings Ltd. in
paring its projected proceeds from an IPO being priced today.
Demand for dot-com IPOs allowed networking site LinkedIn Corp.
and Russian search-engine operator Yandex NV to boost their
offering ranges ahead of their IPOs this month.  Spirit, which flies mostly between  Florida  and the
Caribbean, plans to raise funds for future plane purchases and
to pay off debt. It is seeking to go public as jet fuel hovers
near a three-year high, crimping industry profits and forcing
carriers to raise fares.  The shares will trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the
symbol SAVE.  Gulfstream International Group Inc. (GIGIQ)  was the last
U.S. passenger airline to hold an IPO, selling shares in 2007
and filing for bankruptcy last year.  Indigo, Oaktree  Private equity firm Indigo Partners bought a majority stake
in Spirit in 2006. The firm also invests in airlines with
similar low-fare models, including  Mexico ’s Volaris,  Singapore ’s
Tiger Airways,  Russia ’s Avianova and Hungary-based Wizz Air.
Oaktree Capital is the second-biggest investor. Neither firm
plans to sell shares in the IPO, according to the prospectus.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Morgan Stanley are leading the Spirit
offering.  The U.S. commercial aviation landscape is dotted with
failures, with 100 carriers filing for bankruptcy or ceasing
service since 1989, according to the  Air Transport Association ,
a Washington-based trade group that represents U.S. airlines.  Fuel surpassed labor as most airlines’ biggest cost last
year, and accounted for 35 percent of Spirit’s expenses in 2010,
according to a company filing.  Spirit’s focus on leisure travelers means it can’t count on
demand from higher-fare business passengers to blunt any loss of
vacationers who might be deterred by higher ticket prices,
according to Bob McAdoo, an analyst at Avondale Partners LLC in
 Kansas City ,  Missouri .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  