-- 
Springbok Van Der Westhuizen Sees Hope Following Second Neurone Diagnosis

-- B y   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n
-- 
2011-05-25T08:19:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/springbok-van-der-westhuizen-sees-hope-following-second-neurone-diagnosis.html
South Africa ’s former rugby union
captain Joost van der Westhuizen, voted the world’s best
scrumhalf by  PlanetRugby , said he sees “hope” after seeking a
second opinion on a diagnosis that he has motor neurone disease.  Van der Westhuizen may find out in three weeks whether he
has a type of neurone disease that isn’t fatal, he said in an
interview today with Johannesburg-based  Talk Radio 702 . If he
does have motor neurone disease it will be terminal, he said.  “There is a bit of hope,” he said. “I am clinging to
that hope.”  Van der Westhuizen, 39, who quit playing in 2003, was voted
the world’s best scrumhalf since rugby union turned professional
in 1995 by readers of  PlanetRugby  magazine in an online poll in
October last year. He was capped 89 times for South Africa’s
national rugby team, known as the  Springboks , and scored 38
tries in his international career. He played in three World Cups
including in 1995, when South Africa won the trophy.  After his playing career he stayed in the public eye by
marrying singer and former television presenter, Amor Vittone.
He separated from Vittone after a video was released to the
media last year showing him receiving oral sex from a woman who
was not his wife and sniffing a white powder. After initial
denials he later confirmed that he was the man in the video. He
lost his job as a presenter on  Naspers Ltd. (NPN) ’s Supersport
television channel as a result.  Van der Westhuizen noticed problems with his movements in
November and with his speech in February, before the disease was
diagnosed, the former rugby player said.  Motor neurone disease causes the degeneration of neuron
connections, impeding movement, and most people diagnosed with
the disease die within five to 10 years of diagnosis, according
to the  motorneuronedisease  website.  Van der Westhuizen denied he is seeking publicity, saying
he spoke to the radio station to clarify matters after
speculation in other media.  “I just want to be a good dad to my two kids,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Matthew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net  