-- 
Standard Chartered Affiliate, OCBC Said to Bid for Bank Muamalat Indonesia

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 
2011-05-25T03:02:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/standard-chartered-affiliate-ocbc-said-to-bid-for-muamalat.html
A  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  affiliate,
Qatar Islamic Bank SAQ and Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. are
among bidders for a controlling stake in PT Bank Muamalat
Indonesia, the country’s oldest Islamic bank, people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Shareholders of privately held Bank Muamalat plan to sell
more than 50 percent of the lender in a deal that may value it
at as much as $600 million, one of the people said, declining to
be identified because the talks are private. Second-round bids
are due in mid-June, the people said. PT Bank Permata, an
Indonesian lender 45 percent owned by  Standard Chartered , is
bidding for the stake, one person said.  “It makes sense to address this segment in a big and
proper way,”  Sanjay Jain , a Singapore-based analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG, said of Islamic banking. “If you’re a player
in southeast  Asia , you’ve got to be in this segment.”  Rising demand for Islamic banking services helped drive the
Jakarta Finance Index 52 percent higher in the past 12 months.
Islamic banking assets in Indonesia,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest
economy, grew to 100 trillion rupiah ($11.7 billion) last year
from 67 trillion rupiah at the end of 2009, Mulya Siregar, the
head of Shariah banking at the central bank, said in January.  Investors in Bank Muamalat may sell as much as 80 percent
of the lender, according to one person.  Muslim Population  Bank Muamalat has almost 400 offices in  Indonesia  and a
branch in  Malaysia . The lender plans to quadruple its holdings
of Shariah-compliant debt this year, Chief Financial Officer
Hendiarto said in a February interview. The company had about
20.4 trillion rupiah of assets as of December and targets asset
growth of 50 percent this year, according to Hendiarto, who goes
by one name.  Hendiarto declined to comment on bidders for the stake.
Spokespeople for Standard Chartered, Oversea-Chinese, Bank
Permata and Qatar Islamic Bank declined to comment.  Indonesia is the Asia-Pacific regions third-most populous
country with about 237 million people, 85 percent of whom are
Muslim, the most of any nation. Demand for banking services that
comply with Shariah law is increasing by about 15 percent a year
and Islamic assets may reach $1.6 trillion by 2012, according to
the Kuala Lumpur-based Islamic Financial Services Board.  Companies on the 70-stock  Jakarta Finance Index (JAKFIN)  trade at an
average 2.47 times book value, compared with 1.9 times for
Chinese lenders traded in Hong Kong, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Indonesia Push  London-based Standard Chartered got more than half of its
pretax profit from the Asia-Pacific region last year, Bloomberg
data show. The company hired Sanjeeb Chaudhuri from Citigroup
Inc. as head of consumer banking for South Asia, two people with
knowledge of the matter said this month.  The U.K. lender offers Islamic-banking services in
Indonesia through its Standard Chartered Saadiq unit, and has 26
branches in the country. It also owns the stake in Bank Permata,
a lender with 280 branches in Indonesia, according to Standard
Chartered’s annual report.  Bank Permata shares advanced 0.6 percent to 1,690 rupiah
today at 11 a.m. in Jakarta. The stock has fallen 5.6 percent
this year.  Qatar Islamic Bank (QIBK) , the country’s biggest Shariah-compliant
lender, owns stakes in U.K., Malaysian and Lebanese lenders and
may enter the Indonesian and Turkish markets, acting Chief
Executive Officer Ahmad Meshari said in a May 12 interview.  Shariah Branches  Oversea-Chinese,  Singapore ’s second-largest lender by
market value, merged its two bank subsidiaries in Indonesia this
year. Bank OCBC NISP, in which the Singaporean lender has an 85
percent stake, had assets of 50.15 trillion rupiah at the end of
last year, according to Oversea-Chinese’s annual report.  Bank OCBC NISP opened three Shariah banking branches in
Jakarta, Bandung and Surabaya. Together with additions of
conventional bank branches, its overall network in the country
increased to 409 from 382.  Countries including  Turkey ,  South Africa  and  Thailand  are
easing barriers to Islamic finance products to tap rising demand
for such services. The world’s Muslim population is expected to
increase by about 35 percent to 2.2 billion by 2030, with Asia
accounting for 59 percent of the total, according to the Pew
Research Center.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  