-- 
Four States’ Lawyers Announce New Foreclosure Probe Actions

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n ,   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-05-25T21:55:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/state-attorneys-general-announce-new-demands-in-home-foreclosure-probes.html
The attorneys general of four states
including Illinois and  California  announced new demands in their
probes of foreclosure practices by banks and the mortgage-
servicing industry.  California Attorney General Kamala Harris said today she
subpoenaed  Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS)  as part of her
investigation into so-called “robo-signing,” the practice
signing foreclosure documents without verifying their accuracy.  Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan is issuing subpoenas
to Lender Processing and Nationwide Title Clearing Inc., another
Florida-based company, she said today.  “Foreclosure became a rubber-stamping operation that
robbed many homeowners of the American dream without a fair and
accurate process,” Madigan said in a statement. “California
homeowners have been exposed to fraud and crime at every step of
the mortgage process,” Harris said in a separate statement.  The subpoena announcements come a day after  attorneys
general  in the 50-state investigation of foreclosure practices
met with representatives from the five largest U.S. banks.  State legal officers at the meeting told the banks they
will face an estimated $17 billion in claims if the inquiries
result in civil lawsuits, according to a person with knowledge
of the talks.  Bank Negotiators  Negotiators for the banks said they are prepared to dispute
such demands in court, said the person, who asked to remain
anonymous because the discussions aren’t public. The attorneys
general and federal officials are negotiating with the five
largest loan servicers,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Ally Financial Inc.  Michelle Kersch, a spokeswoman for Lender Processing
Services, based in Jacksonville,  Florida , didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  “Nationwide Title Clearing has not yet been served a
subpoena from the Illinois attorney general and therefore cannot
comment on the specifics at this time,” Cassandra McSparin,
spokeswoman for Palm Harbor, Florida-based company, said in an
e-mailed statement. “The company intends to cooperate with the
Attorney General’s office to the fullest extent of the law.”  Nationwide’s mortgage assignment documents and procedures
have been “thoroughly audited and examined for accuracy,”
McSparin said.  Many of the states are conducting probes of foreclosure
practices independent of the 50-state probe.  New York, California  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  is
investigating banks’ mortgage securitizations, and California’s
Harris announced May 23 that she has established a mortgage
fraud task force.  Two others states --  Utah  and Connecticut -- this month
sent letters to  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America
complaining of illegal or inadequate practices.  Utah’s attorney general wrote a letter to Bank of America,
claiming its ReconTrust Co. unit isn’t meeting legal
requirements for conducting home foreclosures. The letter to
Bank of America Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan, dated
May 19, was released today by Utah Attorney General  Mark
Shurtleff ’s office.  “All real estate foreclosures conducted by ReconTrust in
the state of Utah are not in compliance with Utah’s statutes,
and are hence illegal,” Shurtleff wrote. ReconTrust must be a
member of the state bar or a title insurance company to conduct
its foreclosures, according to the attorney general.  ‘Every Effort’  “ReconTrust will continue to handle foreclosures in
compliance with applicable laws,”  Jumana Bauwens , a spokeswoman
for Bank of America, said in an e-mail. “Bank of America makes
every effort to reach out to delinquent customers to offer home
retention options as well as foreclosure avoidance programs.
Foreclosure is always our last resort.”  Connecticut  Attorney General George Jepsen said Bank of
America, the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, “is failing to devote
adequate resources” to its mortgage-servicing business in the
state, according to a May 20 letter released by his office
today.  Mortgage borrowers seeking help are experiencing
“significant difficulties” with the bank, according to the
letter. Jepsen is helping to lead settlement negotiations with
mortgage servicers as part of the 50-state investigation.  “Despite having had more than two years to ‘right-size’
your staff and establish effective procedures and systems, Bank
of America has so far not prevented even the most common
consumer complaints,” Jepsen wrote to Moynihan.  Jepsen Meeting  Bank of America officials recently met with Jepsen to
discuss “mortgage-related concerns,” T.J. Crawford, a company
representative, said in an e-mail. The bank has worked with
local governments and counseling organizations in the state to
educate homeowners, according to Crawford.  “Since January of 2009, we have expanded the staffing
level in default servicing three-fold, and approximately 30,000
are now dedicated to this area,” Crawford said.  The California attorney general’s subpoena requires Lender
Processing Services to produce documents and provide written
answers to questions covering actions starting Jan. 1, 2007,
according to the statement by her office.  Madigan said she will investigate reported allegations that
Lender Processing Services and Nationwide Title Clearing engaged
in robo-signing and would include a “complete review of the
accuracy of the systems and services” they supply to large
lenders.  Lender Processing  Lender Processing provides loan servicing support for more
than 50 percent of all U.S. mortgages, with a principal balance
of more than $4.5 trillion, Madigan said. Nationwide provides
services to eight of the top 10 lenders and servicers in the
U.S., she said.  “Nationwide is not a foreclosure services company and does
not prepare foreclosure specific affidavits, such as those to
evict people from their homes, and has never done so,”
McSparin, the spokeswoman, said. “We have every reason to
believe that this issue will be short-lived and will be quickly
resolved.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 