-- 
Station Casino Cleared to Turn Over Its Aliante Gaming Property to Lenders

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-05-25T22:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/station-casinos-wins-court-approval-to-turn-over-aliante-resort-to-lenders.html
Station Casinos Inc., the biggest
U.S. gambling company in bankruptcy, won court permission to
turn over its Aliante Station casino to lenders owed more than
$378 million.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Gregg W. Zive, in Reno,  Nevada ,
approved a reorganization plan for the 40-acre property, owned
by Las Vegas-based Station and closely held Greenspun Corp. They
will hand over the resort to creditors for less than its
original $662 million cost.  In March, two people familiar with the deal told Bloomberg
News that TPG Capital and Apollo Global Management LLC are among
the lenders that will take over Aliante. The private-equity
firms bought Aliante debt at a discount and are among the
biggest holders, the people said.  “The plan for the Aliante debtors is a straightforward
turnover of the Aliante property to the Aliante lenders on a
consensual basis,” the company said in court papers.  Station, which filed Chapter 11 in July 2009 after a
leveraged buyout by its founding Fertitta family and  Colony
Capital LLC , plans to exit  bankruptcy protection  this year with
all 17 of the company’s other casinos still controlled by the
existing owners.  In a separate ruling later in the same hearing, Zive barred
three investors from serving on a court-sanctioned creditor
committee for Station’s bankrupt subsidiary, Green Valley Ranch
Gaming LLC.  Second Lien  Zive ruled that  MFS Investment Management  of  Boston , Panton
Capital Group of New York and Babson Capital Management LLC
can’t serve on the official unsecured creditor committee because
of their obligations under a second-lien creditor agreement.
That agreement limits what they can do as unsecured creditors,
making it impossible for them to serve on the committee, Zive
ruled.  The investors, through the committee, have challenged
Station Casinos’ plan to sell Green Valley Ranch to a group led
by the Fertitta family and Colony Capital.  Station is being reassembled by Chairman Frank Fertitta;
his brother, Vice Chairman Lorenzo Fertitta; and partners
including Tom Barrack’s Colony Capital and some lenders. The
Fertittas would continue to manage Aliante under the accord
approved today, while creditors would own the property,
according to court documents.  Circling Casinos  Investors in distressed debt have been circling troubled
casinos as  Las Vegas  stages an uneven recovery from its record
gambling and convention slump.  Aliante Station had drawn $392 million on a  term loan  and
has a $20 million revolving credit, both due in 2012, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. In addition to the resort, the
lenders will get a new, $45 million loan.  The property is north of the  Las Vegas Strip , surrounded by
a planned community. Aliante caters mostly to local residents.
It opened in November 2008, during the steepest tourism slump in
Las Vegas history and a year after Station Casinos’ buyout.  The hotel and casino includes more than 2,000  slot
machines , 35 table games, a poker room, a race and sports book,
and a 200-seat bingo room. The property  has  six restaurants,
pools with private cabanas and a party deck, a 1,500-square-foot
fitness center, a 16-screen cinema and 14,000 square feet of
meeting and banquet space.  Leon Black   Apollo, led by Leon Black, and  David Bonderman ’s TPG
already own Caesars Entertainment Corp., the world’s biggest
casino company, after taking it private in January 2008 for
$30.7 billion, including debt and transaction costs.  Greenspun, based in Henderson, Nevada, owns the Las Vegas
Sun newspaper, magazines, Nevada television stations and real-
estate developer American Nevada Co., which built Green Valley,
the area’s first master-planned housing community.  Station’s second venture with Greenspun,  Green Valley Ranch 
Resort, Spa & Casino, is proposed to be acquired for
$500 million by a group led by the Fertitta family as part of
Station’s bankruptcy. Lower-ranking creditors have challenged
the Green Valley purchase. Zive will rule on that proposed sale
at a later hearing.  Green Valley Ranch, with almost 500 rooms, is southeast of
the Strip.  Las Vegas was among the markets hit hardest by the housing
price collapse and the economic effects of the financial crisis.
 Home prices  in the area fell 58 percent through February from an
August 2006 peak, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller Single
Family Home Resale Home Price Index.  Nevada’s unemployment, which had been lower than the U.S.
rate for five years, has exceeded the national average since
July 2007. The state’s jobless rate was 12.5 percent in April,
compared with 9 percent for all of the U.S.  Station’s bankruptcy case is In re Station Casinos Inc.,
09-52477,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Nevada (Reno).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  