-- 
Statoil Discovers Evidence of Oil in Offshore Brazil Well

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-05-25T11:46:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/statoil-discovers-evidence-of-oil-in-offshore-campos-basin-well.html
Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Norway ’s biggest oil and
gas producer, found evidence of oil in an offshore well in
 Brazil ’s Campos basin near the Peregrino field, the Brazilian
petroleum regulator said.  The discovery was made with the Blackford Dolphin rig at
well 3STAT3DPRJS in the C-M-529 block at a water depth of 122
meters (400 feet), the National Petroleum Agency said on its
 website . The contract is BM-C-47 and Statoil hasn’t determined
if the find can be developed commercially.  “This confirms that there is upside potential in this
area,” Statoil spokesman Baard Glad Pedersen said by telephone
today. The discovery was made in a sidetrack well to an
exploration well south of Peregrino that led to a find announced
on April 14. Another sidetrack well will now be drilled,
Pedersen said.  Statoil in April started output at the Peregrino field in
the Campos Basin, where output will gradually increase to
100,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day over 12 months, Peter
Mellbye, Statoil’s head of international development and
production, said April 11. Peregrino is estimated to hold as
much as 600 million barrels of recoverable reserves.  Stavanger-based Statoil, which operates about 80 percent of
Norway’s oil and gas production, is expanding abroad to maintain
output and boost reserves amid dwindling production from aging
North Sea fields. The company is poised to become the second-
largest operator in Brazil, which plans to double oil output in
less than a decade, and is seeking to add to its portfolio.  Statoil wants more assets in the Campos Basin area, Tim Dodson, Statoil’s executive vice president for exploration, said
on April 14.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, is that country’s largest producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  