-- 
Steroid Investigators Target Armstrong After Winning Athletes’ Convictions

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-05-25T04:03:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/steroids-investigators-armstrong-in-sight-have-won-athletes-convictions.html
Seven-time Tour de France champion
 Lance Armstrong , who two former teammates say took banned
performance-enhancing substances, is facing a legal process that
eventually proved similar allegations against other professional
athletes accused of doping.  Armstrong, former leader of the U.S. Postal Service cycling
team, injected himself with strength-enhancing drugs on numerous
occasions and encouraged the practice, former teammate Tyler Hamilton said on “60 Minutes” May 23. Hamilton said he
testified before a federal grand jury investigating Armstrong,
who has repeatedly denied taking banned substances.  Similar investigations that garnered evidence from
teammates, associates and other athletes eventually led to
indictments and convictions for  Barry Bonds , baseball’s homerun
record-holder, Olympic sprinter  Marion Jones  and her coach
Trevor Graham, Dana Stubblefield, an 11-season veteran of the
 National Football League , and other professional sports figures.  “You could assume this dance will be the same with regards
to Armstrong,” William Gould, a Stanford University law
professor, said. “This has been a theme that has run through
all these cases and will play out yet with Armstrong.”  Armstrong is being investigated by federal prosecutors in
 Los Angeles , said a person familiar with the matter who declined
to be identified because the matter isn’t public. Bryan Daly, an
attorney for Armstrong, didn’t return a call seeking comment
yesterday.  Floyd Landis , an Armstrong teammate stripped of his 2006
Tour title for doping, said last May that he and Armstrong were
among members of the U.S. Postal Service team who used drugs to
improve performance.  Armstrong, 39, has had 500 clean drug tests, said his
spokesman, Mark Fabiani.  Greed, Hunger  Hamilton and other athletes who talked to “60 Minutes”
aren’t credible, having in the past denied doping only to change
their stories out of “greed and a hunger for publicity,”
Fabiani said in statements posted on the website Facts4Lance.com.  In 2005 and 2009, Hamilton was suspended from cycling for
doping. Last week, he returned the Olympic gold medal he won in
2004.  Hamilton is “a confessed liar in search of a book deal,”
Fabiani said.  “These are the same tired, old attacks from the same tired
old rottweilers,” Chris Manderson, Hamilton’s attorney, said in
an e-mail. “Instead of addressing the truth, they viciously
attack Tyler’s character and his motives. How many times can
Fabiani say ‘liar, liar, pants on fire’ and expect to be taken
seriously? At some point they will have to address the truth.”  Bonds, Jones  Jeff Novitzky , who led the investigation that ensnared
Bonds and Jones and is now a Food and Drug Administration
investigator, is among the federal agents that Hamilton spoke to
about doping on the U.S. Postal team, Manderson said.  Lawyers for former San Francisco outfielder Bonds, indicted
in 2007 for allegedly lying about taking steroids, said former
associates who testified against him at his perjury trial were
motivated by greed and weren’t credible. Bonds denied knowingly
taking steroids.  Cris Arguedas, an attorney for Bonds, told jurors in
federal court in San Francisco in March that former Bonds
mistress Kimberly Bell, who testified that Bonds told her he
took steroids, planned to write a “humiliating” book about the
slugger so she could make money and “get rich.” Bell testified
that the book, which was never written, was supposed to be about
what went wrong in their relationship.  Bonds was convicted April 13 of obstructing a federal grand
jury investigation of steroid use by professional athletes.
Jurors couldn’t reach unanimous verdicts on three perjury counts
against Bonds, whose lawyers have said they will seek to
overturn the verdict. Federal prosecutors haven’t disclosed
whether they plan to retry Bonds.  Giambi Testimony  Colorado Rockies player  Jason Giambi  and several other
baseball players testified with immunity before a grand jury
about obtaining steroids and testified for the government at
Bonds’s trial.  In 2004, the founder of a Burlingame,  California ,
laboratory at the center of a federal steroids probe went on
ABC’s 20/20 news show and said he provided Olympic champion
Marion Jones with banned drugs. Jones’s attorney, Richard
Nichols, said the sprinter “never, ever used performance-
enhancing drugs.” The lab’s founder, Victor Conte, who was
under indictment at the time for steroids distribution, was
“simply not credible,” Nichols said. Conte served four months
in prison after pleading guilty in 2005.  Olympic Doping  In 2007, Jones pleaded guilty to two counts of obstruction
of justice and admitted taking steroids before the 2000  Olympic
Games  in Sydney. She told U.S. District Judge Kenneth Karas that
her former coach, Trevor Graham, gave her steroids and that she
lied about it to federal agents in a 2003 interview.  She was stripped of her record five medals and in 2008 was
sentenced to six months in prison.  Graham was convicted that same year by a jury in  San
Francisco  of lying to federal agents about his last contact with
a steroids supplier. He was sentenced to one year of home
confinement and five years of probation.  Roger Clemens , a former pitcher for the  Boston Red Sox  and
 New York Yankees , was indicted last year on charges he lied to a
U.S. Congressional committee in denying he used steroids and
human growth hormone to boost his performance.  Brian McNamee ,
his former trainer, had told the same committee that he injected
the pitcher with the substances. Clemens has repeatedly denied
taking steroids. His trial is scheduled to begin July 6 in
Washington.  Stubblefield, who played defensive tackle from 1993 to
2003 for the  San Francisco 49ers ,  Washington  Redskins and
 Oakland Raiders , pleaded guilty in 2008 to lying about taking
banned muscle-building drugs. Prosecutors said he lied to
Novitzky, then an Internal Revenue Service agent, about taking
banned substances.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  