-- 
Blood at Scene Becomes Pivotal for Strauss-Kahn Defense

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 
2011-05-25T17:31:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/strauss-kahn-evidence-supporting-forcible-sex-seen-as-key-defense-obstacle.html
Evidence that Dominique Strauss- Kahn’s encounter with a hotel maid may have involved force,
including reports of blood at the scene, might damage any
defense contention that she consented, former prosecutors said.  Strauss-Kahn is accused in a seven-count indictment of
forcibly trying to have intercourse with the woman at the
Sofitel hotel in midtown Manhattan, and of making her have oral
sex with him. Strauss-Kahn, who resigned as head of the
 International Monetary Fund  after being charged with sexual
assault and attempted rape, plans to plead not guilty, his
lawyers have said.  Since Strauss-Kahn’s May 14 arrest, news organizations,
such as the  Associated Press  and Fox News, have reported the
discovery of physical evidence, including  semen  and  a cut  on the
defendant’s back, that suggest contact between the accuser, a
32-year-old West African immigrant, and Strauss-Kahn, 62.
Strauss-Kahn hasn’t confirmed or denied there was an encounter.
His attorneys stopped just short of saying that, if there was
one, it was consensual.  “If the DNA evidence is straightforward and there are no
big surprises along the way here, plea negotiations would seem
inevitable,” Samuel Buell, a former federal prosecutor, said in
a phone interview. “It may be a matter of some time before the
defendant can be brought to understand the necessity of those
discussions.”  Crime Scene Unit  A  New York  Police Department crime scene unit gathered
evidence from Strauss-Kahn’s hotel suite, Assistant District
Attorney John “Artie” McConnell told a judge last week. While
the results of tests performed on material taken in the searches
weren’t available as of the May 19 hearing, preliminary
indications “support the victim’s version of events,” the
prosecutor said.  Strauss-Kahn’s body was examined and photographed after his
May 14 arrest. Defense lawyers Benjamin Brafman and William Taylor said their client agreed to a government request for a
physical examination.  News organizations including the Wall Street Journal have
 reported  that a DNA sample from Strauss-Kahn matched semen found
on the maid’s shirt. The Associated Press reported carpet
samples taken from the room may contain semen traces and blood
was found on the sheets.  Fox News  said Strauss-Kahn cut his back
on a piece of furniture in the room during a struggle with the
victim, who told him that she didn’t want to have sex with him.
All the reports cited unidentified sources.  Reports of Evidence  Erin Duggan, a spokeswoman for the New York District
Attorney’s office, declined to comment on the reports.  Paul Browne , a spokesman for the police department, didn’t return
calls seeking comment. Brafman, who declined to comment on the
reports, told a judge last week that the evidence was in his
client’s favor.  “The forensic evidence, we believe, are not consistent
with forcible encounter,” he said at Strauss-Kahn’s first
appearance in Manhattan criminal court, stopping short of
directly saying it was consensual. “This is a very, very
defensible case.”  If convicted, Strauss-Kahn faces as long as 25 years in
prison. He has been free on $1 million cash bail and under home
detention and armed guard since May 20. His arraignment is
scheduled for June 6. In arguing against bail, McConnell said
the accuser’s actions and the results of a physical examination
supported her account.  ‘Multiple Witnesses’  “She made outcries to multiple witnesses immediately after
the incident, both to hotel staff and  law enforcement ,”
McConnell said at the May 16 hearing. “She was then taken to
the hospital and was given a full sexual assault forensic
examination. The observations and findings during that exam
corroborate her accounts,”  Any blood from a cut on Strauss-Kahn or the woman that was
consistent with her resisting would subvert a defense that the
sex had been consensual, said Paul Callan, a former New York
prosecutor.  “Blood would be critical to prove physical force. If
indeed there is an injury to his back, it corroborates a
specific detail in her story,” Callan said in a phone
interview. “Corroboration is very important. In a case where
it’s he-said, she-said, it gives the jury something to rely
on.”  Plea Not Likely  Still, a plea is unlikely, said Callan, who represented the
estate of Nicole Brown Simpson in a civil lawsuit against  O.J.
Simpson . The former football player was found liable for his ex-
wife’s wrongful death after being acquitted on charges of
murdering her and Ron Goldman.  With a plea, Strauss-Kahn “would become a registered sex
offender and it would stain him for the rest of his life,”
Callan said. “It’s going to be won or lost at trial.”  Defense lawyers may try to claim the maid exchanged sex for
money, Callan said.  “I don’t see the defense being able to make a compelling
case” that the woman was “overcome by lust,” Callan said.
“The details of the defense are going to be supplied as the
case goes along, and it’s not going to be pretty for the
victim.”  Callan said he was in the  Manhattan  District Attorney’s
office the day the maid was reported to have testified before
the grand jury.  “She had a hat on, large sunglasses and a silk scarf
pulled across her face, which she put down as she walked past
me,” Callan said. “She was surrounded by police detectives.”  Gained Credibility  Prosecutors said that the woman’s story gained credibility
because she immediately reported the alleged incident to fellow
workers. She also picked Strauss-Kahn out of a police lineup
within 24 hours of the alleged attack. McConnell said Strauss-
Kahn could be seen on a hotel video making an “unusually
hasty” exit after the attack allegedly occurred.  Defense lawyers said their client was in a hurry to have
lunch with his daughter before heading to a scheduled Air  France 
flight. Also, they said, he later called the hotel looking for a
mobile phone he thought he had left in his room and told the
security staff where to find him. Police used that information
to arrest him minutes before his plane was due to take off.  “If you just committed crime at a hotel in New York, the
last thing I would want to do is report to hotel security where
I am,” Brafman said at a bail hearing.  Brafman told French television’s TF1 on May 22 that, based
on the evidence he had seen, his client would be acquitted at a
fair trial.  Hard to Convict  Linda Fairstein, a former Manhattan prosecutor who
specialized in cases involving sexual attacks, said that while
the evidence reported so far seems to favor the prosecution, a
conviction will be difficult to obtain.  Strauss-Kahn, a former French finance minister and member
of France’s opposition Socialist Party, had been among the most
popular possible candidates to contest France’s 2012
presidential election, according to opinion polls.  “I think it’s a tough case -- because of the facts and
circumstances and the power dynamic between the witness, who is
probably an uneducated or less educated employee doing a menial
job, and a powerful, well-respected brilliant politician,”
Fairstein said.  The New York Post, citing an unnamed French businesswoman,
 reported  that friends of Strauss-Kahn offered money to the
maid’s family in  Guinea  to make the case go away.  ‘Fully Exonerated’  “Reports that Mr. Strauss-Kahn’s attorneys or
representatives are in contact with the complaining witness or
her family are false,” Taylor and Brafman said today in a
statement distributed by PR Newswire. “We continue to believe
that Mr. Strauss-Kahn will be fully exonerated.”  “There will be enormous pressure on her family in  Africa ,
and undoubtedly her reputation will be vigorously attacked by
supporters of Strauss-Kahn,” Callan said. “The biggest thing
the prosecutor has to do is keep her available for trial.”  Without the victim, Fairstein said, “there is no case.”  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 1225782, Criminal Court
of the City of New York (New York County).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Freifeld at Manhattan Criminal Court at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Farrell in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  