-- 
Ex-IMF Chief Strauss-Kahn Moves to New Manhattan Building to Await Trial

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-05-26T04:07:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/strauss-kahn-s-next-residence-reported-to-new-york-judge-court-reports.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the former
International Monetary Fund chief, moved into a new Manhattan
building, where he will be confined under guard while awaiting
trial on charges of attempted rape and sexual assault.  Strauss-Kahn relocated to a building at 153 Franklin St. in
Manhattan’s Tribeca neighborhood, police said.  Two police officers stood in front of the three-story, red-
brick building yesterday. Nearby, a neighbor sprayed reporters
with a hose in an effort to keep them off his property.  State Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus was informed of
the new location yesterday by defense lawyers and prosecutors,
said David Bookstaver, a spokesman for the Office of Court
Administration. Strauss-Kahn was arrested on May 14 and released
from New York’s Rikers Island jail complex on May 20.  “The judge received a phone call from the parties and
they’ve agreed on a new location,” Bookstaver said in a phone
interview.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, is out on $1 million cash bail and under
armed guard. He was staying in an apartment at 71 Broadway in
 Lower Manhattan . That apartment was chosen as a temporary home
after arrangements at an Upper East Side address fell through
because of overwhelming media interest in his case.  Roof Deck, Parking  According to a  sales listing  for the 153 Franklin St.
building on the StreetEasy real estate website, the property is
a 6,804-square-foot townhouse. The four-bedroom unit, which was
on the market for almost $14 million, includes a roof deck and
garage, according to the listing. Photos of the property on
another  website  show a renovated, modern interior.  Strauss-Kahn is accused of forcibly trying to have
intercourse with a maid at the Sofitel hotel in Midtown
Manhattan, and of making her have oral sex with him. Strauss-
Kahn plans to plead not guilty, his lawyers have said.  To secure his release, Strauss-Kahn also posted a
$5 million bond and agreed to wear an electronic tracking
bracelet. He will now be able to leave his residence -- escorted
and after giving notice -- for legal, medical and religious
purposes.  Erin Duggan, chief spokeswoman for  Manhattan  District
Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr., declined to comment on the new housing
yesterday. Ed Stroz, co-president of Stroz Friedberg LLC, the
company supervising Strauss-Kahn’s home detention, also declined
to comment.  William Taylor, a Strauss-Kahn lawyer, didn’t return a call
seeking comment. Benjamin Brafman, another Strauss-Kahn lawyer,
didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment.  Prosecutors had argued against bail, saying Strauss-Kahn, a
French national, was a flight risk. He was taken into custody
aboard an Air France flight at John F. Kennedy International
Airport minutes before it was due to depart. The defense said
that the plane trip was planned ahead of time and that their
client would waive extradition.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 1225782, Criminal Court
of the City of  New York  (New York County).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Freifeld at Manhattan Criminal Court at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  