-- 
Strauss-Kahn, Madoff Cases Help Stroz Friedberg Build Bodyguard Business

-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 
2011-05-26T04:29:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/stroz-friedberg-builds-bodyguard-business-with-madoff-strauss-kahn-cases.html
Former International Monetary Fund
chief  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , charged with sexual assault, has
something in common with  Bernard Madoff  besides a rap sheet:
both hired Stroz Friedberg LLC to manage their house arrest.  Not that the French economist or his lawyers had much
choice. Strauss-Kahn’s legal team chose Stroz Friedberg for the
job at the recommendation of the Manhattan District Attorney’s
office, which said at last week’s bail hearing that Strauss-Kahn
was a flight risk.  The job, which will pay Stroz Friedberg about $200,000 a
month according to estimates provided to the court, is the
latest high-profile assignment for the firm, which managed the
house arrest of Madoff two years ago.  “We’re former law enforcement guys,” said Edward Stroz,
54, who headed the FBI’s computer crimes squad in  New York 
before stepping down in 2000. “We have brains, some muscle.
We’re not afraid of adversarial situations, and we’re not afraid
to come before the court.”  While “muscle” is important, Stroz said he isn’t just in
the business of renting “bodyguards.” For Madoff, there were
legitimate concerns he might commit suicide, as well as whether
defrauded investors might try to kill him.  Smuggling Madoff  Stroz’s people were so concerned about the possibility of
an attempt on Madoff’s life that they smuggled their client out
of his apartment building on the few occasions when he had to
leave.  “You want to make sure people aren’t displayed where they
don’t need to be,” said Stroz.  With Strauss-Kahn, the goal is to prevent him from fleeing
the country. New York Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus granted
the French economist and politician bail of $1 million in cash
and an insurance company bond worth $5 million. Obus ordered
Strauss-Kahn to wear an electronic bracelet and be confined to
his residence with at least one armed guard on duty at all
times.  Yesterday, Strauss-Kahn moved from a temporary apartment at
71 Broadway in  Lower Manhattan  to, according to police, a
townhouse at 153 Franklin St. in the Tribeca neighborhood. He
will be allowed to leave his residence only for court
appearances, meetings with lawyers, doctor’s appointments and
weekly religious services.  Former Prosecutor  “It’s a bespoke service,” said Stroz, who started the
firm in 2000 with Eric Friedberg, a former federal prosecutor.
Stroz said the firm structures each job to fit the court order
in that case.  In 2007, Stroz Friedberg got a $30 million investment from
Greenhill & Co., an investment bank. Last October, New Mountain
Capital bought 50 percent of the firm for $115 million. The
company now has 210 employees, Stroz said.  Stroz Friedberg, though smaller than competitors Kroll Inc.
and FTI Consulting, has carved out a niche in the area of
forensic investigations, said Greenhill & Co.’s Dhiren Shah, who
joined the security company’s board after the 2007 investment.  “We like their business model,” Shah said. “More and
more, in both criminal and civil cases, cyber issues are on the
rise. We thought these guys were doing something very
interesting in a very interesting market.”  Digital Lab  Stroz Friedberg started with a focus on crimes involving
computers and the Internet. The firm built its own digital
forensics lab to collect, identify and preserve evidence
gathered from hard drives, cell phones and other devices.  Before the Greenhill investment, Stroz Friedberg had grown
by building its profile in New York, and adding experienced
former law enforcement professionals in markets across the
country.  Stroz Friedberg was hired by the  law firm  representing
 Martha Stewart  Living Omnimedia Inc. to preserve e-mails when
Stewart, the company’s founder, was charged with obstruction of
justice.  The Enron Task Force hired Stroz Friedberg for its trial of
former Merrill Lynch & Co. bankers accused of entering into a
so-called parking arrangement involving two electricity barges
off the coast of  Nigeria .  During that trial, forensic evidence discovered by the firm
helped convince a Houston jury that one senior Merrill Lynch
banker was aware that the barge deal wasn’t a true sale of
assets.  Stroz said the company established its abilities to manage
a complex house arrest in 2007, when it was hired to monitor the
Sabhnanis, a couple on New York’s  Long Island  who were accused
of enslaving two Indonesian house workers.  ‘On the Map’  “That one put us on the map,” Stroz said, noting that the
surveillance lasted more than a year and involved monitoring
 Internet traffic . “This is where our cyber skills came in
handy.”  Anthony Valenti, who heads the firm’s business intelligence
and investigations unit, ran the home detention programs for the
Sabhnanis and Madoff, and is leading the Strauss-Kahn
surveillance.  Stroz said it’s important for his people to maintain some
level of rapport with home detention clients.  “You always want to have that,” he said. “It makes
everything go better. Home detention is like jail outside of
jail. That doesn’t mean you have to treat the client as though
he’s in jail.”  Clinical Psychologists  Building rapport helps provide a sense of the client’s
mental state while the firm often consults with clinical
psychologists to better understand what a home detainee is going
through, Stroz said.  “We’re one of the few firms that uses behavioral
sciences,” he said.  Watching Strauss-Kahn involves traditional guard duties,
too. Two days after Strauss-Kahn was released from New York’s
Rikers Island prison complex, a guard in a brown suit sat in a
chair in front of a stairwell across from Strauss-Kahn’s door at
the Building on Broadway.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 1225782, Criminal Court
of City of New York (New York County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Farrell in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  