-- 
Swedish Central Bank Braces for Import Price Rise as Krona Effect Recedes

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-05-25T13:03:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/sweden-price-pressure-rising-riksbank-says.html
Swedish inflation will pick up as
import prices gain and pressure builds in the labor market,
Riksbank Deputy Governor Barbro Wickman-Parak said, underlining
the bank’s commitment to further tightening this year.  “We’re getting a stronger and stronger economy, the
situation in the labor market is strengthening and we’re seeing
that unit labor costs, which previously fell, are now beginning
to rise,” she said yesterday in an interview in  Stockholm .
“We’ve also had import prices that have been very low when the
krona strengthened and that effect will fade away.”  Policy makers at the Riksbank last month raised the
benchmark repo rate for a sixth time since July to cap inflation
in the European Union’s fastest-growing economy. Consumer price
growth has exceeded the central bank’s 2 percent target every
month since December and accelerated to 3.3 percent in April,
including the impact of mortgage costs and commodities.  The bank raised its main rate a quarter point to 1.75
percent in April and predicted the rate will average 2.5 percent
in the first three months of 2012. Governor Stefan Ingves has
said the rate may need to be raised at every meeting this year.  The difference between  Sweden ’s two-year yield versus same-
maturity benchmark German debt widened 4 basis points to 92, the
biggest spread in two weeks. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point. The krona appreciated to the highest against the euro
since April 28, rising 0.3 percent to trade at 8.9161 at 2:42
p.m. in Stockholm.  ‘Hike Every Meeting’  “The very fast improvement in the labor market means that
indicators for resource utilization are likely to continue to
trend upwards, which should raise concerns over medium-term
inflation risks,” Olle Holmgren, an economist at SEB AB, said
in a note today. “Labor market strength supports our forecast
that the Riksbank will hike at every meeting this year.”  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said Sweden’s “vigorous recovery has produced significant
employment growth, a marked decline in the  unemployment rate ,
shrinking spare capacity and some signs of emerging labor
shortages in the construction sector,” in a report today.  Swedish unemployment fell more than expected to 7.9 percent
in April, from 8.1 percent in March, the statistic agency said
today. The rate was 9.5 percent in April last year.  “We have a pretty cautious rate path and the reason for
that is that resource utilization is rising and we’re seeing
that inflation pressure is about to increase,” Wickman-Parak
said.  Krona Interplay  Swedish inflation, adjusting for mortgage costs, was an
annual 1.8 percent in April, compared with 1.5 percent in March.
The krona, which has gained 9 percent against the euro in the
past 12 months and is the second-best performing major currency
against the dollar and euro this year after the Swiss franc,
won’t “necessarily” be boosted by further rate rises, Wickman-
Parak said separately in a  speech  yesterday.  “Changes in  interest rates  abroad relative to Swedish
interest rates say more about the current  exchange rate  for the
krona than about the future development of the krona,” she
said. “High Swedish interest rates relative to those in the
euro area will not necessarily lead to the krona strengthening
in the period ahead.”  The Riksbank last month raised its forecast for inflation
to 3.2 percent for this year from a 2.5 percent prediction in
February. It also lifted its forecast for next year to 2.8
percent from 2.1 percent. Underlying inflation, which adjusts
for mortgage costs, will average 1.6 percent in 2011 and 1.7
percent in 2012, the bank said.  “Inflation is not a big worry in Sweden,” Wickman-Parak
said.  Sweden’s economy grew 5.5 percent last year and will
probably expand 4.6 percent in 2011, 2.3 percent in 2012 and 2.5
percent in 2013, the bank estimates. Unemployment will fall to
7.3 percent this year and 6.7 percent in 2012, from 8.4 percent
last year, the bank estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  