-- 
Swiss Stocks Pare Decline; Credit Suisse Advances as ABB Shares Decrease

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-05-25T16:23:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/swiss-stocks-fall-abb-lonza-julius-baer-lead-retreat-on-smi-benchmark.html
Most Swiss stocks gained, led by  UBS
AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  after the head of a group of euro-
region finance ministers hinted at further measures to stop
 Greece  defaulting on its debt.  Switzerland’s two biggest banks both rose more than 1
percent while solar-power equipment makers, OC Oerlikon Corp. AG
and  Meyer Burger Technology AG (MBTN) , retreated.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies advanced 0.2 percent to 6,464.55 in Zurich as
13 stocks rose and seven fell. The gauge has climbed 7.4 percent
since a March 16 low as seven out of 10 companies posted
earnings that beat estimates. The broader Swiss Performance
Index added 0.1 percent.  “We’re still concerned that the poor health of peripheral
European economies could lead to haircuts for bondholders,
tightening the availability of credit,” said Lars Knudsen, who
manages an 80 million-euro ($113 million) equities fund at LGT
Capital Management AG in Pfaeffikon, Switzerland. “Still, it’s
apparent that there are sustainable economic-growth stories in
major economies such as  Germany  and the U.S.”  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
Olli Rehn told French newspaper  Les Echos  that Greek debt
maturities could be extended on a voluntary basis, a process he
referred to as “reprofiling.”  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the group of euro-area
finance ministers, said he strongly opposes a full restructuring
of Greek debt. Euro-region countries may take further steps to
help Greece with its debt crisis if the country meets all
requests by the 17-member currency region, he told reporters in
The Hague. A final assessment on new measures for Greece may
come as early as next week, he said.  Durable Goods  Orders for U.S. durable goods dropped more than forecast in
April, reflecting a slump in aircraft demand and disruptions in
supplies of auto parts stemming from the earthquake in  Japan .  UBS gained 1.1 percent to 16 Swiss francs and Credit Suisse
added 1.5 percent to 36.45 francs.  Oerlikon lost 1.3 percent to 6.68 francs, its fifth
straight drop. Meyer Burger fell 6.1 percent to 36.25 francs.  Logitech International Ltd., the world’s largest maker of
computer mice, slid 2.1 percent to 10.58 francs, extending the
stock’s plunge since Feb. 14 to 44 percent.  Flughafen Zurich AG, the operator of  Switzerland ’s biggest
international airport, slipped 0.7 percent to 375.75 francs.
European airlines may cancel more than 600 flights today as a
cloud of volcanic ash from Iceland drifts across the North Sea
to Germany.  “The stock is likely to suffer from the negative news flow
in the short term,” Michael Heider, an analyst at Helvea AG,
wrote in a note to clients today. “We would recommend investors
to use this opportunity to buy more positions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  