-- 
U.K. Economy Expanded 0.5% in First Quarter as Export Growth Accelerated

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-05-25T09:39:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/u-k-economy-expanded-0-5-in-first-quarter-as-export-growth-accelerated.html
U.K. exports helped the economy
resume growth in the first quarter and outweighed the biggest
slump in company investment and  consumer spending  in almost two
years.  Exports rose 3.7 percent in the quarter and net trade added
a record 1.7 percentage points to gross-domestic-product growth,
the  Office for National Statistics  said today in  London .
Consumer spending dropped 0.6 percent and company investment
plunged 4.4 percent. GDP rose 0.5 percent on the quarter and 1.8
percent from a year earlier, matching initial estimates.  The  Bank of England  and the government are counting on the
pound’s weakness to help rebalance the economy toward
manufacturing and exports. The drop in sterling since 2007 is
fuelling a surge in inflation, dividing policy makers on whether
to keep the benchmark interest rate at a record low of 0.5
percent to nurture the recovery.  “The positive contribution from net trade has been a long
time coming, but the fall in investment is a blow to hopes that
this would be the other pillar of growth,” said  Hetal Mehta , an
economist at Daiwa Capital Markets in London. “These figures
reinforce our view that the majority of the  Monetary Policy 
Committee will continue to vote for no change in interest rates
this year.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar and traded
at $1.6193 as of 10:36 a.m. in London. Investors are betting on
a quarter-point rate increase in February, according to forward
contracts on the sterling overnight interbank average, or Sonia,
compiled by Tullett Prebon Plc.  Imports Decline  From a year earlier, consumer spending dropped 0.3 percent
in the first quarter, the statistics office said. Imports fell
2.3 percent on the quarter and were up 4.9 percent on the year.
 Government spending  rose 1 percent on the quarter and 1.1
percent from a year earlier.  Company investment fell 4.4 percent on the quarter and was
down 2.7 percent from a year earlier. The  GDP deflator  -- the
broadest measure of inflation in the economy -- was 1.8 percent,
the most since 1996.  The statistics office revised the first-quarter drop in
construction to 4 percent from 4.7 percent. Production rose 0.2
percent, less than the 0.4 percent initially estimated on April
27. Manufacturing increased 1.1 percent, and services expanded
by 0.9 percent.  King View  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  on May 11 the U.K.
faces a “difficult time ahead” and that the rebalancing of the
economy will take “not just one year, but several years.”  “Some pickup in underlying growth is likely during 2011 --
albeit less than judged probable in February -- driven by a
continuing recovery in business investment and a positive
contribution from net exports,” the central bank said.  U.K. export growth has been helped by rising global demand
and the pound’s decline of about 24 percent on a trade-weighted
basis since the start of 2007. The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development today maintained its forecast for
the world economy to expand 4.2 percent this year.  At the same time, U.K. households remain under pressure
from a surge in inflation and the biggest fiscal squeeze since
World War II. London-based  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , the U.K.’s
biggest clothing retailer, said yesterday that the short-term
outlook for the economy “remains challenging.” A squeeze on
consumers’ disposable income and rising commodity prices make
the retailer “cautious.”  OECD Forecast  The OECD cut its forecast for U.K. growth and said the Bank
of England should maintain stimulus to support the recovery. GDP
will rise 1.4 percent instead of the 1.5 percent predicted in
March, it said today. The economy will grow 1.8 percent in 2012,
down from a previous projection of 2 percent.  “Monetary policy should remain expansionary over the
forecast period to support activity in view of the tightening
fiscal stance,” the OECD said. “However, normalization of
interest rates will need to start during 2011 to stave off
significant increases in inflation expectations.”  Six of the bank’s nine-member MPC, including King, voted to
hold the key interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent this
month, citing concerns that an increase could “adversely affect
 consumer confidence .” A Nationwide Building Society index of
household sentiment fell in April as the government vowed to
stick to plans to eliminate the bulk of the record deficit by
April 2015. More than 300,000 public jobs will be axed as part
of the plan.  MPC Votes  Three MPC members voted to raise the key rate to control
inflation that surged to 4.5 percent in April. The bank’s latest
quarterly forecasts show price gains may reach 5 percent as
commodity prices surge.  Martin Weale , who voted for a quarter-point increase, said
May 23 that while some prices pressures are temporary, “there
are also worries that after a sustained period of high
inflation, it may be more entrenched people’s expectations.”  His colleague  Paul Fisher  said the economy is most likely
in a “temporary soft patch” that may worsen from a “prolonged
weakness in demand, and in particular, consumer spending.”  “At the very least, that makes me pause to consider when
policy should start to be normalized or even whether further
loosening might be justified,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  