-- 
U.K.’s ‘Ostrich Generation’ Fails to Plan Retirement, HSBC Says

-- B y   T i m   F a r r a n d
-- 
2011-05-25T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/u-k-s-ostrich-generation-fails-to-plan-retirement-hsbc-says.html
Britons are ignoring the need to plan
for their retirement even as life expectancy increases and
government and company pensions become less generous, according
to  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   About half of working-age Britons expect to be worse off in
retirement than their parents and almost one in five don’t know
what their main source of retirement income will be, according
to a report, “The Future of Retirement: The power of
planning,” produced by  HSBC Bank .  “The emergence of this Ostrich Generation is a real
concern,”  David Wells , head of investments, pensions & savings,
at HSBC, said in an e-mailed statement. “Britons know that they
need to plan and save more for their retirement, yet are not
turning this knowledge into action.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition administration is
seeking to encourage workers to save more for retirement by
making savings plans more flexible. The government scrapped
rules in January that forced workers to retire at 65.  By contrast to the lack of preparation in the U.K., in
emerging economies, rising incomes and living standards combined
with a culture of saving and self-reliance are creating a
generation of well-prepared retirement optimists, HSBC said.  “A significant shift in retirement wealth, expectations
and outlook is taking place around the world, with the
traditional East versus West situation no longer the reality,”
said Wells. “Unless Westerners take a leaf from the book of
their Asian peers, and start to be accountable for their own
futures, sadly many will find their fears of financial hardship
in later life come true.”  Globally, 32 percent of respondents in the study expect to
face financial hardship in retirement, with the highest
proportion, 55 percent, in  South Korea , and 52 percent in
 Argentina , according to the report. This compares with 17
percent in  China .  The report was compiled by Cicero Consulting on behalf of
HSBC. More than 17,000 people in 17 countries were questioned in
December 2010 online. In the U.K., 1,000 working age Britons
were questioned.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Tim Farrand at   tfarrand@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  