-- 
U.K. Gag Orders, Xinhua Finance, Virginia Health Case, Bawag in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-05-25T10:09:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/u-k-gag-orders-xinhua-finance-mga-ubs-bawag-in-court-news.html
Massey Energy Co. (MEE) ’s management
believed U.S. government officials, including President Barack
Obama, conspired to destroy the coal producer, according to
unsealed court records in a case related to a fatal mine
accident.  Don Blankenship , Massey’s former chief executive officer,
and Chairman Bobby Ray Inman, a retired U.S. Navy admiral, made
clear in sworn testimony that they “firmly believed the company
was being targeted by the government,” lawyers for Massey
investors who are suing the company’s directors said in filings
unsealed yesterday in state court in Delaware.  Inman, a former deputy director of the  Central Intelligence
Agency , “was unequivocal in his assertions” in pre-trial
depositions that mine regulators, union officials, plaintiffs
lawyers “and President Obama himself harbored a secret agenda
to destroy Massey, and that the large numbers of safety
violations Massey received were proof of the conspiracy,”
according to the lawyers.  The filings were made public yesterday as part of a lawsuit
brought by the New Jersey Building Laborers Pension Fund seeking
to hold Massey directors liable for the Richmond, Virginia-based
company racking up more than $25 million in assessed violations
by the  U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration .  The suit accuses Massey’s board of allowing managers to
systematically disregard safety regulations, contributing to a
blast that killed 29 miners in April 2010 at the Upper Big
Branch mine in  West Virginia .  Micah Ragland, a Massey spokesman, declined to comment
yesterday on the unsealed files in the Delaware case.  Massey agreed in January to be acquired by  Alpha Natural
Resources Inc. (ANR)  for $7.1 billion. Pension fund officials contend
Massey’s board agreed to sell the coal company at a fire-sale
price because of its poor safety record. They contend Massey
officials could have gotten at least another $1.5 billion for
the shares.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine is scheduled to
hear the investors’ request to block the deal at a May 26
hearing in Wilmington.  The case is New Jersey Building Laborers Pension Fund v.
Blankenship, CA5430, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  U.K. Gag Orders Spark ‘Battle’ Between Judges, Lawmakers  Members of Britain’s Parliament are pressuring U.K. judges
to reveal the identities of celebrities and executives who win
court orders barring the media from reporting on their alleged
indiscretions.  Lawmakers this month cited legislative “privilege” when,
during open sessions of Parliament, they identified former Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc Chief Executive Officer Fred Goodwin
and Ryan Giggs, a soccer player for Manchester United, in
relation to injunctions they had won. The lawmakers’ actions
suggest a war is brewing between Parliament and the courts over
such orders, said London lawyer Niri Shan.  “It’s a farcical situation,” Shan, who heads the media
practice at Taylor Wessing LLP, said yesterday in a phone
interview. “The judge is saying one thing and people are
popping up in Parliament and saying another. It’s a battle
between Parliament and the courts.”  So-called super-injunctions typically prevent the media
from writing about celebrity infidelities and may bar them from
reporting the gag order exists. While lawmakers have taken to
the floor of the House of Commons to skirt the rulings, users of
Twitter Inc.’s social-networking website have posted names of
celebrities protected by the injunctions.  Two senior U.K. judges who last week delivered a report on
super-injunctions, questioned whether “it is a very good idea
for our lawmakers to be in effect flouting a court order just
because they disagree with the order.”  “It is a very serious issue, in my view,” Chief Justice
Igor Judge told reporters. “We are following the law as best we
understand it.  For more, click here.  Ex-Xinhua Finance Officials Say Not Guilty of Fraud Scheme  Two former board members of Xinhua Finance Inc. accused of
taking part in a $50 million  insider-trading  scheme said they
aren’t guilty of defrauding investors and lying to regulators.  Shelly Singhal and Dennis Pelino yesterday made their first
appearance in federal court in  Washington  after being charged
May 10 with conspiracy, mail fraud and false statements.  Loretta Fredy Bush, Xinhua Finance’s former chief executive
officer, who is also charged in the case, didn’t appear in court
because of illness, her lawyer said.  “She is under doctor’s orders not to fly,” Bush’s lawyer,
Charles Leeper of Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP in Washington, told
U.S. District Judge Royce Lamberth. Leeper said it was unclear
when his client, who lives in  Hawaii , will be able to appear in
court.  Xinhua Finance, the first Chinese company listed on the
Tokyo stock exchange, provides information products focused on
Chinese and international financial markets.  The three are accused of using entities to disguise the
sale of shares in Shanghai-based Xinhua Finance from the
Securities and Exchange Commission and investors and engage in
insider trading, according to an indictment. They are also
accused of manipulating the company’s balance sheet to avoid
impairment charges.  Singhal and Bush face nine charges. Pelino, who was charged
with an additional false statements count, faces 10. Each mail
fraud count is punishable by a maximum penalty of 20 years in
prison.  Singhal and Pelino will remain free pending trial, Lamberth
said yesterday. Both entered pleas of not guilty.  The case is U.S. v. Singhal, 11-cr-00142, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  Trials/Appeals  ‘Pay for Delay’ Drug Deals Should Be Halted, FTC Tells Court  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission urged an appeals court to
outlaw certain settlements between brand-drug manufacturers and
generic-drug makers over the timing of sales of copycat
medicines, saying they harm competition and hurt consumers.  The agency asked the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Philadelphia
to reverse a lower court’s ruling that accords between Merck &
Co.’s Schering-Plough unit and generic manufacturers of K-Dur 20
high blood-pressure medicine didn’t violate antitrust laws.  The FTC is fighting agreements between companies about when
generic drugs can be marketed, known as “pay for delay” or
“reverse-payment” settlements, saying they cost consumers the
equivalent of about $3.5 billion a year in higher prices for
pharmaceuticals. These transactions compensate the generic-drug
maker in return for dropping challenges to a patent and
establish a date when the non-branded version of the drug can be
sold, the agency said.  The FTC is pressing the courts and Congress to limit the
settlements. Brand- and generic-drug makers say the deals may
bring lower-cost copies of medicines to the market sooner than
they would otherwise.  The commission filed a court brief May 18 siding with
retailers such as CVS Pharmacy Inc., Rite Aid Corp., Safeway
Inc. and Walgreen Co. that have challenged the legality of
patent settlements between Schering-Plough Corp. and two generic
drugmakers for K-Dur 20, a potassium supplement. The U.S.
 Justice Department  also filed a brief the same day seeking to
overturn the lower court’s ruling based on antitrust laws.  The case is In re K-Dur Antitrust, 10-02077, 10-02078 and
10-02079, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
(Philadelphia).  For more, click here.  Court Questions Its Authority in  Virginia  Health-Care Cases  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Virginia questioned whether it
has the authority to decide the constitutionality of the Obama
administration’s health-care overhaul.  The three-judge panel in Richmond said May 23 that the
question is whether the Anti-Injunction Act, which generally
bars decisions on tax law before taxes are collected, prevents
the court from ruling on a challenge to the statute’s
requirement that most Americans buy health insurance.  “It’s an interesting twist,” said Kevin Walsh, a law
professor at the University of Richmond and a former clerk to
Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia. “This is an apparent
resurrection of an issue the parties once argued about and
seemingly put behind them.”  The judges are reviewing one lower-court ruling that upheld
the health-care law and another that struck down part of it. On
May 10, during back-to-back arguments lasting about two hours,
the issue of the court’s jurisdiction was touched on by one of
the lawyers then dropped without questions from the court.  The Virginia appeals stem from a challenge to the law by
the state of Virginia and another by Liberty University, a
Christian school founded in Lynchburg, Virginia, by the late
Reverend Jerry Falwell.  In court, the government argued that the legislation is an
extension of Congress’s power to tax, as people who fail to buy
coverage starting in 2014 would face a penalty to be included on
an individual’s tax return.  In the lower court, Justice Department attempts to win
dismissal of the cases on the Anti-Injunction Act were rejected.
The government didn’t cite the law on appeal.  Tracy Schmaler , a Justice Department spokeswoman, and Brian
Gottstein, a spokesman for Virginia Attorney General Ken
Cuccinelli, declined to comment.  “We will file our response and see what happens when the
court issues its ruling,” said Mathew Staver, dean of Liberty
University School of Law.  The Virginia court is the first appeals court to review the
health-care law. Two other appeals will be heard next month in
Cincinnati and Atlanta.  The cases are Liberty University v. Geithner, 10-02347, and
Commonwealth of Virginia v. Sebelius, 11-01057 and 11-01058,
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond).  For more, click here.  MGA Seeks $339 Million in Damages, Fees From Mattel for Bratz  Bratz doll maker MGA Entertainment Inc. asked a judge to
triple the $88.4 million in damages it won from  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  and
to award it attorney fees and costs in the seven-year fight over
rights to the dolls.  In a proposed order filed May 23 in federal court in Santa
Ana,  California , MGA asked U.S. District Judge David Carter to
award it $177 million in punitive damages, $129.7 million in
attorneys fees, and $32.4 million in costs. The company also
asked the judge to award it $4.3 million in restitution from
Mattel based on unfair competition claims.  Carter, in an order May 23, postponed a hearing scheduled
for yesterday until today for arguments on MGA’s requests as
well as on Mattel’s motion to throw out the April 21 jury
verdict holding it liable for misappropriating MGA’s trade
secrets.  Closely held MGA, based in Van Nuys, California, said in a
May 6 fee request that Barbie-doll maker Mattel set out to
destroy most of the value of its business and succeeded.  Mattel has asked Carter to reject the request for legal
costs, saying its copyright-infringement claims were
“objectively reasonable.” El Segundo, California-based Mattel
also said MGA wasn’t entitled to an additional $177 million in
punitive damages for trade-secret misappropriation claims.  “At issue in this case is, at most, a sneak peek at 26
toys displayed at six toy fairs over a six-year period,” Mattel
said in a May 13 response to MGA’s request for damages. “No one
died. No towns were lost. MGA suffered no actual injury and did
not even claim at trial that it did.”  Lisa Marie Bongiovanni, a Mattel spokeswoman, didn’t return
a call seeking comment. The amount of attorneys fees MGA is
seeking hadn’t been disclosed in previous public filings, which
were redacted.  The jury agreed with MGA that Mattel stole its trade
secrets when Mattel’s employees gained access to MGA’s showrooms
at toy fairs using phony business cards. The jurors awarded MGA
$3.4 million for each of the 26 instances in which they found
that Mattel had misappropriated a trade secret.  The case is Bryant v. Mattel, 04-09049, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  UBS Banker Poteroba’s Friend Koval Sentenced to 26 Months  Alexei Koval, who admitted that he conspired with former
 UBS AG (UBSN)  investment banker Igor Poteroba to make $1.4 million in a
four-year insider-trading scheme, was sentenced to 26 months in
prison.  Koval, 37, who worked at Northern Trust as a pricing
manager before his arrest in March 2010, was sentenced yesterday
in  Manhattan  federal court after pleading guilty in January to
conspiracy and securities fraud.  “My actions caused so much destruction, so much pain to
many people,” Koval told U.S. District Judge Paul Crotty. Koval
is being held in a federal lockup in  Brooklyn ,  New York .  Poteroba, who was an investment banker in the health-care
group at UBS Securities LLC before his arrest, was sentenced to
22 months behind bars in March after pleading guilty to insider
trading. He admitted that he tipped friends to potential
mergers. Poteroba, 37, is at the same  detention  center as Koval,
according to records of the U.S. Bureau of Prisons.  Prosecutors said Poteroba leaked to Koval tips on UBS
Healthcare client mergers and acquisitions under consideration,
and that Koval passed the tips to a third person. The ring used
code such as “frequent flier miles” and references to a Macy’s
Inc. wedding registry and made at least $870,000 from the
illegal trades, prosecutors said.  Koval said in his guilty plea that he paid for tips.
Prosecutors claimed the leaks were connected to transactions
involving Guilford Pharmaceuticals Inc., Molecular Devices
Corp., PharmaNet Development Group Inc., ViaCell Inc.,
Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Indevus Pharmaceuticals Inc.  The case is U.S. v. Koval, 10-CR-443, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  N.J. UBS Client Gets Three Years Probation for Evading Taxes  Former UBS AG client Harry Abrahamsen avoided prison when
he was sentenced to three years probation for concealing more
than $1 million in Swiss bank accounts, federal prosecutors
said.  Abrahamsen, who pleaded guilty last year to charges that he
failed to file required Reports of Foreign Bank or Financial
Accounts, or FBARs, from 1999 to 2007, was sentenced yesterday
in federal court in Newark,  New Jersey , U.S. Attorney Paul J.
Fishman said in an e-mailed statement. The probation includes 12
months of home confinement.  Abrahamsen’s daughter Lucille Abrahamsen Jackson, 42, was
sentenced to one year of probation May 23 for a similar offense.  Abrahamsen, of Oradell, New Jersey, and his daughter are
among more than two dozen former UBS clients who pleaded guilty
to tax crimes. Zurich-based UBS avoided U.S. prosecution in
February 2009 by paying $780 million, turning over the names of
U.S. account holders and saying it helped Americans hide assets
from the Internal Revenue Service.  Jackson, who pleaded guilty in November, said her father
set up a Swiss bank account in her name in 1992 to evade U.S.
taxes. The account’s value reached $759,376 in 2003. Abrahamsen
admitted opening one UBS account in 1992 and a second in 2000
and funding them with about $1.3 million in false and inflated
expenses from his printing business, SJT Imaging Inc.  In addition to probation, U.S. District Judge Dennis
Cavanaugh ordered Abrahamsen to pay back more than $600,000 in
taxes, interest and penalties. As part of his guilty plea,
Abrahamsen also agreed to pay an FBAR penalty of more than
$300,000, according to Fishman’s statement.  The case is USA v. Harry Abrahamsen, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  Ex-Bawag CEO Elsner’s Jailing on Losses Fair, Court Says  Bawag PSK’s former Chief Executive Officer Helmut Elsner’s
imprisonment while awaiting trial on 1.7 billion euros ($2.4
billion) in losses at the Austrian bank didn’t violate human
rights laws.  Elsner’s detention throughout the criminal proceedings
because he was deemed a flight risk, even while having heart
surgery, was “reasonable,” the  European Court of Human Rights 
ruled yesterday.  “Without a doubt there had been a reasonable suspicion
that Mr. Elsner had committed criminal offenses,” the
Strasbourg, France-based court said in an e-mailed statement.
“The mere fact that following his operation Mr. Elsner had been
in intense medical care had not as such eliminated all risk of
him absconding.”  The 76-year-old former banker was sentenced to 7 1/2 years
in jail in December for his role in the losses in the late
1990s, according to the court ruling. The losses, mostly run up
with wrong-way bets on the Japanese yen, weren’t uncovered until
U.S. futures broker Refco Inc., a Bawag affiliate, collapsed in
2005. The discovery eventually forced Bawag’s sale to private
equity firm Cerberus Capital Management LP in 2007.  While Karl Bernhauser, one of Elsner’s lawyers in Vienna,
said there wouldn’t be an appeal, Juergen Stephan Mertens, his
lawyer dealing with the human rights case, said he was
considering an appeal and a new case, which may focus on other
aspects of the trial.  The European Court of Human Rights cases are Elsner v.
Austria, 15710/07, 31805/07, 36230/07, 40937/07 17239/08 and
41402/08.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Chicago Lawyer Daugerdas Found Guilty in Tax Shelter Trial  Paul Daugerdas, a former lawyer at the defunct law firm
Jenkens & Gilchrist, and three others were convicted of a 10-
year tax shelter scheme that generated more than $1 billion in
phony losses.  A federal jury in New York reached the verdict yesterday
following a 10-week trial of Daugerdas and his co-defendants,
Denis Field, the former chief executive officer at accounting
firm BDO Seidman LLP; Donna Guerin, a Jenkens & Gilchrist
lawyer; and Robert Craig Brubaker and David Parse, two certified
public accountants who formerly worked as client advisers at a
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  unit called Alex.Brown.  Field, Guerin and Parse were found guilty of tax evasion
and other charges. Brubaker was acquitted of all nine counts
including mail fraud, conspiracy and obstruction. The jury began
deliberations on May 12.  Daugerdas, the former head of Jenkins & Gilchrist’s Chicago
office, was convicted on more than 20 counts, including
conspiracy, multiple counts of tax evasion and attempting to
impede the Internal Revenue Service. U.S. District Judge William
Pauley allowed the defendants to remain free pending their
sentencing on Oct. 14.  After court, Daugerdas’s lawyer, Chris Gair, said, “We’ll
be filing appeal and post trial motion papers and look forward
to sentencing.” Daugerdas declined to comment as he left court.  The case is: U.S. v. Daugerdas, 09-CR-581, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  