-- 
U.S. Car Labels to Show Fuel Use Vs All New Vehicles by 2013

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-05-25T16:44:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/u-s-redesigns-car-fuel-economy-labels-to-rate-for-fuel-use.html
U.S. cars and light trucks will carry
labels comparing estimated five-year fuel costs with those of
the average new vehicle following industry opposition to adding
fuel-economy letter grades to the  window stickers .  The labels, which will include annual fuel-cost estimates,
must be affixed to passenger cars and trucks sold in the U.S.
starting with model year 2013, the Washington-based
Environmental Protection Agency and Transportation Department
said in a statement today. The new stickers will rate vehicles
on a scale of 1 to 10 for smog and greenhouse-gas emissions.  “These new window stickers are a win-win” for consumers
and the  auto industry , Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said
today at a press conference in Washington. “They’ll help
consumers make informed choices to save at the pump.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is writing rules to
improve fuel economy for cars and trucks that may require annual
fuel-efficiency improvements of as much as 7 percent from 2017
to 2025. New vehicles have displayed stickers estimating annual
fuel costs as of  model year 2008 . Before that, the labels  showed 
how many miles per gallon a vehicle could get in a city or on a
highway.  Electric Cars  According to the rule announced today, plug-in hybrids and
fully electric vehicles will have labels that specify how far a
car can drive on electric power when charged.  The government discarded plans for labels with letter
grades after automakers, dealers and federal lawmakers said that
consumers may avoid vehicles labeled with lower rankings.  Regulators abandoned the letter-grade proposal after
receiving criticism, including from automakers, and consumer
tests including focus groups indicated that some found the plan
confusing, EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson said.  “About half the people didn’t think the letter grade gave
them all the information they needed,” Jackson said at the news
conference. “And there was confusion that the letter grade was
about the whole car.”  The  Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers , whose members
include  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , and the
National Automobile Dealers Association praised the abandonment
of letter grades, saying both the industry and consumers are
better served by the change.  “It’s good that they backed away from something where they
made the decision about the relative value of the vehicle rather
than consumers,” Doug Greenhaus, chief regulatory counsel for
the car-dealer group, said in an interview.  Vehicle Comparisons  Greenhaus’s  association , based in McLean,  Virginia , opposed
the letter grades and urged regulators to compare vehicles’ fuel
efficiency and emissions to others of the same type rather than
against the entire fleet.  Environmental groups such the  Natural Resources Defense
Council , which advocates for higher fuel-economy standards, had
supported the letter-grade plan.  The label announced today isn’t “perfect, but it was
important to get something out there as soon as possible,” Luke
Tonachel, a senior transportation analyst with the New York-
based NRDC, said in an interview. “The new label has some
important improvements that will help consumers faced with high
gas prices find the cleanest, most-efficient vehicles.
Importantly, the vehicle you’re looking at is compared with all
vehicles in a model year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 