-- 
U.S. April Imports of Steel Products Report (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-05-25T14:15:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/u-s-april-imports-of-steel-products-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
steel report from the Commerce Department:  The U.S. Census Bureau announced today that preliminary
April steel imports were $2.6 billion (2.3 million metric tons).
This was an increase of $0.1 billion (0.1 million metric tons)
from the preliminary March totals of $2.5 billion (2.2 million
metric tons).  The April change in steel imports based on metric tonnage
reflected an increase primarily in line pipe greater than 16
inches in diameter and hot dipped galvanized sheets and strip.
Decreases occurred primarily in oil country goods and cold
rolled sheets. Increases occurred primarily with Australia and
 Korea .  Decreases occurred primarily with  Mexico .  The year to date final statistics through March 2011 showed
steel imports of 5.8 million metric tons compared with 4.8
million metric tons through March 2010. The largest commodity
increases occurred primarily in oil country goods and blooms,
billets, and slabs. The largest commodity decrease occurred
primarily in line pipe greater than 16 inches.  The largest
country increase occurred primarily with  Brazil  and the largest
country decrease occurred primarily with  Canada .  Notes:  The data in this report are preliminary and subject to
revisions.  Analysis of recent months for steel product imports indicates
the value of preliminary data should equal about 96 percent of
the final value reported in the regular monthly trade statistics
report.  Preliminary data reported for individual steel
categories and at the individual country of origin level have
been less consistently predictive of the final data reported in
the regular monthly trade statistics. For further details visit
the Foreign Trade Division web site at: www.census.gov/trade. On
the web site you can access product by country and country by
product tables.  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department      http://www.bea.gov   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  