-- 
U.S. Stock-Index Futures Fall on Durable Goods

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 
2011-05-25T12:35:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/u-s-stock-futures-fall-as-durable-goods-orders-drop-more-than-forecast.html
U.S. stock-index futures extended
losses after orders for durable goods decreased more than
forecast, adding to evidence economic growth is slowing.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring next
month slipped 0.2 percent to 1,311 at 8:34 a.m. in  New York . Dow
Jones Industrial Average futures declined 18 points, or 0.2
percent, to 12,308.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years fell
3.6 percent in April, the most since October, after a 4.4
percent jump in March, a Commerce Department report showed today
in Washington. Economists projected a 2.5 percent drop in April,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. A
measure of demand for business equipment declined by the most
this year.  Earlier losses in futures came after Applied Materials
Inc., the world’s largest producer of chipmaking equipment,
forecast earnings that missed estimates.  The S&P 500 has fallen 3.5 percent from an almost three-
year high on April 29 amid a commodity slump, lower-than-
estimated economic data and concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis
may derail the global recovery. The benchmark gauge is still up
4.7 percent so far this year as the  Federal Reserve  extended its
stimulus measures and companies posted higher-than-estimated
earnings.  Treasuries climbed today, pushing yields to near their
lowest level this year, as investors speculated that Europe’s
debt crisis will worsen and the  U.S. economy  will weaken.  Notes advanced for a fifth day after Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  said yesterday markets are afraid of his
nation’s debt and their concern has spread to other countries.  Jean-Claude Juncker, who heads the group of euro-area
finance ministers, yesterday said he opposes a “full
restructuring” of Greece’s debt. Euro-area countries may
further help  Greece  with its debt crisis if the country complies
with the 17-member currency group’s requests, he told reporters
in The Hague. A final assessment on new measures for Greece may
come as early as next week, he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  