-- 
U.S. Spending Cuts Might Imperil Global Recovery, UN Says

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-25T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/u-s-spending-cuts-might-imperil-global-recovery-un-says.html
Government spending cuts by the U.S.
and other Western nations might threaten the global economic
recovery, the  United Nations  said as it forecast 2.8 percent
growth in the  U.S. economy  next year.  “If austerity measure are too drastic and come too soon
given the stage of the recovery, economic growth and employment
could suffer and the still fragile banking sector could weaken
further,” the UN’s midyear economic analysis said. “A fall out
in one part of the developed country financial system may still
have ripple effects worldwide.”  The cautionary comments come as the Obama administration
and the Congress debate proposals to cut U.S. spending in an
effort to reduce the  budget deficit  and slow the growth of the
national debt. European nations, such as the U.K., are imposing
government spending cutbacks.  In a different situation,  Japan ’s economy, hurt by the
earthquake and tsunami, will pick up with major reconstruction
spending in 2012, the report said.  The U.S. recovery from the recession will continue to be
“mild,” and risks to the U.S. expansion are growing, UN chief
economist Rob Vos said in an interview.  Aside from fiscal austerity, risks to U.S. economic
recovery include “sustained elevated commodity and oil prices,
a further worsening of its public finances and continued
weakness in the housing market and financial sector,” the
report said.  U.S. Outlook  The U.S. economy expanded by 2.9 percent in 2010, the UN
said, and unemployment stands at 9.0 percent. Vos said the 2011
forecast was raised to 2.6 percent, from 2.2 percent, following
3.1 percent fourth quarter growth that was greater than UN
economists expected.  U.S. unemployment will average 8.2 percent in 2012, the UN
said. It will take up to five more years to reach pre-recession
unemployment levels of about 5 percent, he said.  The strength of the economies of  Brazil ,  China ,  India  and
other Asian and Latin America nations caused the UN to upgrade
its forecast of global economic growth for 2010 and 2011. The
world economy will expand 3.3 percent this year, up from the
January forecast of 3.1 percent, while the 2012 forecast has
been raised to 3.6 percent from 3.5 percent.  China’s economy  will grow by 9.1 percent this year and 8.9
percent in 2012, the UN said, with India expanding by 8.1 and
8.2 percent and Brazil by 5.1 and 5.3 percent.  Japan, North Africa  Forecasts were downgraded for Japan following the March 11
earthquake and tsunami and for North Africa in the midst of
political unrest in Egypt, Libya and  Tunisia .  Japan’s economy will expand by 0.7 percent this year,
before reconstruction spurs a recovery to 2.8 percent growth in
2012, the UN said.  The forecast for North Africa was revised down by 4.3
percentage points to 0.7 percent expansion this year and by 0.7
percentage points to 5.0 percent growth in 2012.  “The global recovery is still fragile and could suffer
setbacks if public debt problems and continued financial sector
fragility in developed economies are not adequately addressed,
global commodity process continues to surge and trigger belt-
tightening policy responses,” the UN said.  The price of oil will average $99 per barrel this year and
$90 in 2012, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  