-- 
Tornadoes, Thunderstorms Slam Into U.S. Plains, Killing 13 in Three States

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-05-25T12:43:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/u-s-tornadoes-kill-seven-injure-60.html
Violent thunderstorms with hail and
tornadoes swept across the Plains, killing more than a dozen
people, 48 hours after the deadliest U.S. twister on record
leveled homes and businesses in Joplin, Missouri.  At least 13 tornadoes were reported in  Kansas , Texas,
 Oklahoma , Colorado and Virginia yesterday, according to the U.S.
 Storm Prediction Center  in Norman, Oklahoma. Two people died in
Kansas, three in  Arkansas  and eight in Oklahoma, the Associated
Press reported.  At least 60 injuries were reported in Oklahoma and Kansas,
according to the Weather Channel. Tennis ball-sized hail was
reported in at least one storm, according to the weather
service.  “I’ve seen homes torn off their foundations,” Oklahoma
Governor Mary Fallin said in an interview on the Weather
Channel, adding that “seven or eight” towns in the state were
hit by the violent storms. Fallin declared a  state of emergency 
in 14 counties and indicated more could be added.  The latest round of severe weather comes on the heels of
killer storms in  Missouri . Joplin City Manager Mark Rohr said
yesterday 122 people were killed from the tornado that struck
there May 22. The twister has now been classified as an EF-5 on
the Enhanced Fujita Scale, the most powerful, with wind gusts of
200 mph (322 kph), according to Bill Davis, meteorologist in
charge of the Springfield, Missouri, office.  Deadliest Ever  The Joplin tornado is the now the deadliest in U.S.
records, which date to 1950. The prior record was set June 8,
1953, when a twister in Flint, Michigan, killed 116 people.  The population of the U.S. has shifted west and south in
recent decades, so more people are living in areas that are
struck by tornadoes, Jack Hayes, director of the  National
Weather Service , said.  As of May, 2011 is the ninth deadliest year on record and
the year isn’t half over, said Hayes. At least 493 people have
died in tornadoes so far this year, the earliest that such a
high toll has been reached, said Russ Schneider, director of the
Storm Prediction Center. In the past three years combined prior
to this year, 192 people were killed by tornadoes, according to
the storm center.  The deadliest year for tornadoes in the U.S. was 1925, when
794 people were killed, according to the  National Oceanographic
and Atmospheric Administration .  Tornado Damage  From 1990 to 2009, tornadoes caused $97.8 billion in
insured U.S. losses, second only to hurricanes, which caused
$152.4 billion, according to the  Insurance Information Institute 
in  New York .  After hurricanes, tornadoes are nature’s second most
destructive storms.  The Joplin storm came a month after at least 305 tornadoes
tore through the U.S. South, killing 327 people, mostly in
Alabama, the NOAA said. The damage from the storms April 25 to
April 27 was estimated to be as much as $5 billion, according to
catastrophic risk modeler  Eqecat Inc.  in Oakland,  California .  This year’s storm season may be caused by a waning La Nina,
a cooling in the  Pacific Ocean , that is creating a zone suitable
for tornado conditions as warm moist air from the  Gulf of Mexico 
collides with colder air in the north.  Sea surface temperatures in the Gulf are now 3 degrees
Fahrenheit warmer than the pre-1970 average, said Kevin
Trenberth, distinguished senior scientist at the  National Center
for Atmospheric Research  in Boulder,  Colorado .  “Two degrees of that can be attributed to natural
variability while one degree Fahrenheit is associated with
 climate change ,” Trenberth said in an interview yesterday.  Schneider said there’s “emerging research” to suggest
that years like 2011 in which a La Nina fades tend to produce
more tornadoes. He said more research is needed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Joplin at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 