-- 
U.S. Stocks Snap Three-Day Drop as Commodity Producers Advance

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-05-25T20:47:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/u-s-stock-index-futures-fall-applied-materials-bank-of-america-decline.html
U.S. stocks advanced, with benchmark
indexes snapping a three-day decline, as commodity shares
rallied on expectations for higher raw material prices.  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  and  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  gained at
least 1.6 percent as oil climbed following a report showing that
U.S. distillate fuel supplies dropped to a two-year low.
 Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  advanced 2.4 percent as
copper rose after Deutsche Bank AG said prices are likely to
rebound. Fifth Third Bancorp and  BB&T Corp. (BBT)  increased more than
1 percent after  Fitch Ratings  said it probably won’t downgrade
German banks because of their holdings of Greek debt.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.3 percent to
1,320.47 at 4 p.m. in New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
rose 38.45 points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,394.66 today. Both
benchmark gauges fell to one-month lows yesterday.  “It’s a risk-on day,” said  Russ Koesterich , the San
Francisco-based global chief investment strategist for the
IShares unit of BlackRock Inc., which oversees $3.65 trillion as
the world’s largest asset manager. “On days when you get a
little bit more conviction about the economic recovery, stocks
and commodities move up. The risk-on day is also a manifestation
of companies most-tied to the economy.”  The  S&P 500  has fallen 3.2 percent from an almost three-
year high on April 29 on concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis and
weaker-than-forecast economic data. Indexes of commodity
producers slumped at least 5 percent during that period. Still,
the benchmark gauge rose 5 percent since the end of 2010 on
government stimulus measures and higher-than-forecast profits.  Commodity Producers Rally  Gauges of energy and raw material shares rose at least 1.3
percent today, the two biggest gains in the S&P 500 within 10
industries. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw
materials rallied 1.6 percent. Oil rose above $101 a barrel in
New York. Copper gained the most in a week as Deutsche Bank said
prices are likely to rebound, following similar comments from
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Occidental Petroleum, the biggest onshore oil producer in
the continental U.S., added 1.7 percent to $104.22. Halliburton
rose 5 percent to $49.87 after Morgan Stanley raised its
recommendation for the world’s second-largest oilfield services
provider to “overweight” from “equal-weight.” Freeport, the
largest publicly traded copper producer, gained 2.4 percent to
$49.98.  Economic Recovery  “The rally in stocks and commodities reflects the view
that the global economic recovery is in place,” said Eric Teal,
chief investment officer at First Citizens Bancshares Inc. in
Raleigh,  North Carolina , which manages $4 billion. “There had
been some concern about softness in recent data and that’s why
we saw a pullback. Profits and margins should be sustained at
these levels. The trend is higher and the rally will be driven
by companies most-exposed to economic growth.”  Financial companies helped pace a rebound in benchmark
indexes as Fitch Ratings said German banks have “manageable”
risks related to Greek sovereign debt and the Mediterranean
country’s economy.  “The worst consequence of any Greek sovereign default for
German and other European banks would be a sharp increase in
general  capital market  and creditor risk aversion at a time when
many banks are still in rehabilitation mode,” Michael Dawson- Kropf, a Frankfurt-based analyst at Fitch, said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB) , Ohio’s largest lender, added 1 percent
to $12.61. BB&T rose 1.8 percent to $26.67.  RF Micro Devices Inc. (RFMD)  climbed 5.7 percent to $6.08. The
U.S. maker of chips and radio systems for mobile phones was
added to the focus list at Morgan Keegan.  ‘Grand Theft Auto’  Take-Two Interactive Software Inc. (TTWO)  rose 3.2 percent to
$16.62. The producer of the “Grand Theft Auto” video games
reported a fourth-quarter loss, excluding some items, that was
55 percent narrower than the average analyst estimate.  Stock futures extended declines before the start of regular
trading as a report showed that orders for durable goods dropped
more than forecast in April, reflecting less demand for aircraft
and disruptions in supplies of auto parts stemming from the
earthquake in Japan.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years fell
3.6 percent, the most since October, after a 4.4 percent jump in
March, a Commerce Department report showed. Economists projected
a 2.5 percent drop in April, according to the median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey. A measure of demand for business
equipment declined by the most this year.  Costco Slumps  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  lost 1.3 percent to $80.32. The
largest U.S. warehouse-club chain reported fiscal third-quarter
profit of 73 cents a share, missing the average analyst estimate
by 4.8 percent.  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  declined 4 percent to
$28.28. The Treasury sold 200 million shares yesterday at $29
each, compared with the closing price of $29.46 on the New York
Stock Exchange. The government, which retains a majority stake,
needs to sell shares at an average of about $28.73 to recover a
$47.5 billion investment. AIG disposed of 100 million shares,
raising $2.9 billion, according to a statement from the company.  AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, is seeking private
capital after a government rescue that swelled to $182.3
billion, including Federal Reserve support. The Treasury in 2010
sold the last of its holdings in  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and reduced its
ownership in General Motors Co. to a minority stake. New York-
based AIG is the only insurer that hasn’t repaid its bailout.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  slumped 2.6 percent to $120.62.  Jim Chanos , the short seller known for predicting Enron Corp.’s
collapse, said investors should bet against the biggest producer
of thin-film solar panels and Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the
largest wind-turbine manufacturer.  Vestas “will be under financial strain and best avoided,”
Chanos, the president and founder of Kynikos Associates LP, said
today at the  Ira Sohn Conference  in New York. First Solar is
“losing whatever edges they have not only because of technology
but increasingly because of operational problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  