-- 
UAW Seeks to Claw Back Its Four-Year-Old Wage Concession

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-05-25T21:31:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/uaw-negotiator-with-general-motors-says-entry-level-wage-should-be-raised.html
United Auto Workers Vice President
Joe Ashton, who negotiates with  General Motors Co. (GM) , said he
wants to raise the $14-an-hour entry-level wage for union
members at assembly plants in talks this year.  The pay for new employees, about half of what senior
workers get, is “not a middle-class wage,” Ashton said today
in an interview after GM announced it will invest $69 million
and add 2,500 jobs to start making two new models at the  Detroit 
plant that builds the Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid.  The UAW’s push in this year’s labor talks would seek to
partially pull back on a concession made four years ago before
the automakers have had a chance to hire many workers under the
lower wage. The union is not seeking to eliminate the entry-
level wage, which is paid to 3 percent of its members at the
three largest U.S. car companies, Ashton said.  “In negotiations, there will be some conversations about
moving these people up,” Ashton said. “We’re not looking to
make these plants uncompetitive. It’s no good making $28 or $38
an hour if you don’t have a job.”  The union must balance priorities in negotiations between
keeping costs low to secure new jobs and getting back some
concessions made in recent years as GM and Chrysler Group LLC
were headed into bankruptcy, said  Harley Shaiken , a professor at
the  University of California , Berkeley, who specializes in
labor.  “The companies will resist it,” Shaiken said. “It was
one of the most painful concessions that the union made. They
felt they had no alternative.”  UAW workers in U.S. automaker plants earned $13.30 an hour
in 1985, according to the Center for Automotive Research in  Ann
Arbor , Michigan.  Second-Tier Wages  The UAW will point out that GM and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  made
billions of dollars last year in a weak car market while most of
their workers made the top wage, Shaiken said. At the same time,
the union won’t jeopardize the recovery of Detroit’s carmakers
with huge demands, he said.  GM reversed plans to close a plant in Michigan last year to
build small cars there after the UAW agreed the factory would be
staffed with about 40 percent of workers earning the second-tier
wage. Raising pay for those workers may create an incentive for
GM, Ford and Chrysler to outsource work, said Bob Clark,
president of labor firm RWC Consulting LLC.  ‘Self-Defeating’  “If his intention is to compress the difference between
regular employees and the second tier, than it’s self-
defeating,” Clark, a former director of labor affairs planning
for Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford, said in a telephone
interview. “Even with the second tier, they have uncompetitive
labor costs, and that means fewer and fewer jobs.”  Ashton said in March that the UAW would consider expanding
the use of a lower wage for new workers in exchange for jobs. He
made the comments at GM’s factory in Orion Township,  Michigan ,
where the automaker retained 1,550 hourly and salaried jobs to
build the Buick Verano and Chevrolet Sonic small cars beginning
later this year.  Ashton is “under some pressure on the issue of second
tier” from his union, said Art Schwartz, a former GM labor
negotiator who is now president of a consulting company in Ann
Arbor, Michigan. “This is one way to deal with it. You don’t
want to do away with that because he can win work with it.”  GM, Ford and Chrysler may not be receptive to raising the
entry-level wage because the automakers still have a gap they
are trying to close with foreign automakers, Schwartz said.  Nonunion Competitors  Ford’s U.S. labor costs are about $58 an hour, $8 more than
mostly nonunion U.S. factories of competitors such as  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380) , according to a  website  Ford started last month to
promote its negotiating position in contract talks.  GM’s shares closed at $31.27 a share, up 44 cents, or 1.4
percent, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Ford fell
8 cents to $14.58.  The UAW will negotiate new contracts this year with GM,
Ford and Chrysler before their agreements expire in September.
UAW President  Bob King  has said workers have given up $7,000 to
$30,000 each in concessions since 2005 to help the automakers
survive.  A two-tiered wage was contentious among some union members
who spent their entire careers making the same wage as their co-
workers, said George McGregor, president of UAW Local 22, which
represents workers at GM’s Chevrolet Volt plant.  “I want to get back to where we were,” McGregor said.
“I’m making $28 an hour and the guy across from me is making
$14 an hour and doing the same thing. It will take time, but
we’ll get it back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 