-- 
Hungary Bucks Trend of Greek-Style Asset Sales as Orban Eying Utilities

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-05-26T14:48:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/hungary-bucks-state-asset-sale-trend-as-orban-eyes-utilities.html
Hungary  has started to snap up stakes
in companies the government deems strategic, bucking the
privatization trend that forces indebted countries from  Greece 
to  Poland  to sell holdings to plug budget holes.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  on May 24 announced the
purchase of OAO Surgutneftegas’s 21.2 percent stake in Mol
Nyrt., Hungary’s largest refiner, for $2.65 billion in what his
Development Minister, Tamas Fellegi, called a “first step” in
a drive to boost the state’s role in strategic industries.  Hungary, the most indebted eastern member of the European
Union, needed an International Monetary Fund-led bailout to
defend the forint and avert default in 2008. Hungary says it is
tapping a 3 billion-euro ($4.2 billion) fund left over from its
IMF loan and kept at the central bank reserves to pay for Mol.  “Hungary’s foreign-currency reserves and, subsequently,
its ability to protect the forint will be significantly
weakened, which we see as very negative from a country point of
view,” Olena Kyrylenko, a Budapest-based analyst at KBC
Securities, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Revenue from the $16 billion mandatory private pension fund
system, which the government is funnelling to the treasury this
year, as well as temporary special industry taxes helped Orban
avoid a ballooning deficit in his first year in power. The
shortfall would be 7 percent of gross domestic product without
pension funds, according to the  Economy Ministry . The funds may
help the budget swing into a 2 percent surplus this year.  Rising Repayments  Hungary’s foreign-currency denominated debt repayments will
rise in the coming years, peaking at 1.5 trillion forint ($7.8
billion) in 2014 as the country repays its 20 billion-euro loan
obtained from the IMF and the EU, according to data on the
website of the Debt Management Agency as of March 31. Debt
repayments on maturing loans will be 1.24 trillion forint next
year and 1.34 trillion forint in 2013.  “The IMF and European Union program was for balance of
payments needs, not for asset purchases,” Iryna Ivaschenko, the
IMF’s representative in Hungary, said by phone today. “As a
general policy, it is advisable to take into account the
liquidity buffers, both fiscal and external, when making such
decisions to use foreign-exchange deposits.”  The IMF has “no say” on how Hungary uses its foreign-
exchange deposits, Ivaschenko added. As foreign exchange
reserves aren’t earmarked, it isn’t possible to say whether the
funds used by Hungary were from the bailout loan, she said.  Orban this year announced cuts in welfare spending to
prevent the budget from unravelling as the effects of one-time
revenue wane. The measures, such as the scrapping of early
retirement and reducing unemployment and sick leave benefits,
will produce savings of 550 billion forint next year and 900
billion forint annually in 2013 and 2014, according to a
government plan released March 1.  Wrong Timing  Hungary’s timing on the reversal of earlier privatizations
in strategic industries is at odds with the trend in  Europe ,
where the sovereign debt crisis in the euro area is spurring
asset sales to cut debt and restore investor confidence.  “This is definitely not the moment for the state to get
into such purchases,” Balint Torok, analyst at Buda-Cash
Brokerhaz Zrt., said in a telephone interview. “The most
important priority should be to meet deficit targets.”  The Greek government, which is trying to stave off a
restructuring of its loans, on May 24 said it wants to raise 50
billion euros by 2015 via state-asset sales and real-estate
development.  In eastern Europe, Poland sped up privatization last year
to raise cash for financing the  budget deficit  and curb debt.
This month the government sold a 12 percent stake in agriculture
lender Bank Gospodarki Zywnosciowej SA as part of a plan to
raise 15 billion zloty ($5.3 billion) from state asset sales in
2011.  Polish Sales  The government is also offering a 53 percent stake in  Grupa
Lotos SA (LTS) , the country’s second-largest refiner, as well as a
minority stake in PKO Bank Polski SA, the country’s biggest
bank, and Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA, the European Union’s
biggest coking coal producer.  Romania plans to sell a 9.8 percent stake in the country’s
biggest oil company  OMV Petrom SA (SNP) , which the government values
at 500 million euros, a 15 percent stake in power-grid operator
Transelectrica SA and another 15 percent stake in natural-gas
grid operator Transgaz SA. The government also wants to offer a
15 percent stake in gas producer Romgaz SA and its majority
stake in the chemical company Oltchim SA in a bid to cut
spending and narrow the budget deficit to within 3 percent of
GDP in 2012.  The  Czech Republic  has sold assets to foreign investors in
the past 20 years while retaining state control in the largest
utility  CEZ AS. (CEZ)  The Cabinet, which relies on CEZ dividends to
help budget revenue, doesn’t plan to reduce its 70 percent stake
in the company.  ‘Creeping Takeover’  Hungary, which had divested most of its state-owned
companies in the 22 years since the end of communism, put on the
market its last Mol shares in 2006, when the budget deficit was
at 9.3 percent of GDP, a record within the EU that year. The
government recouped a stake after Mol’s management said Surgut
would attempt a “creeping takeover” of Hungary’s biggest
energy company.  Fellegi on May 24 declined to say what other purchases the
government is planning. The government earmarked 200 billion
forint this year for buying out public-private partnership
projects.  In March 2010, the government signed a contract with E.ON
AG, by which  Germany ’s biggest utility agreed to give Hungary a
purchase priority on its local natural gas wholesale unit.
Orban’s office at the time said this would prevent E.ON Foldgaz
Trade Zrt. from falling into “undesired hands.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net 
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  