-- 
Hungary Shares Decline Most in Three Weeks on Economic Outlook

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-05-25T15:36:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/hungary-shares-head-for-biggest-drop-in-3-weeks-on-debt-concern.html
Hungarian shares fell the most in
three weeks as optimism about global economic growth waned. Mol
Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest refiner, slid after the state bought a
21 percent stake in the company.  The benchmark BUX index of shares weakened 1.2 percent to
22,779.23 by the 5 p.m. close in Budapest, the biggest slump on
a closing basis since May 3. Mol, which jumped 4.1 percent
yesterday before trading was suspended pending the government
announcement, dropped 2.8 percent to 22,660 forint.  Commerce Department data showed U.S. durable-goods orders
fell more than economists forecast in April. German  consumer
confidence  will drop for a third month in June with concern that
 Greece  may need to default and surging energy prices clouding
growth prospects, according to Nuremberg-based market research
company GfK.  “Forward-looking macroeconomic data indicate a wavering
belief in growth prospects,” analysts at Erste Group Bank AG in
Budapest including Jozsef Miro wrote in a research note today.
The fact that Hungary paid “only” 22,400 forint for each Mol
share was “negative news,” the Erste analysts said.  Hungary bought OAO Surgutneftegas’s 21.2 percent stake in
Mol for 1.88 billion euros ($2.65 billion), Development Minister
Tamas Fellegi told reporters yesterday. The government paid
around 22,400 forint per share at current exchange rates,
Fellegi said. The funds will be drawn down from International
Monetary Fund loans obtained in 2008 and kept in central bank
reserves, he said.  “The decline in the Hungarian stock market is not due to
this government intervention,” Guillaume Tresca, an emerging-
market strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Paris, said in a
telephone interview today. “The appetite for risky assets and
emerging assets is really limited. We are seeing a global
decline.”  The forint depreciated 0.3 percent to 270.63 per euro.  “Markets are under substantial pressure; unfavorable news
keeps coming in on the European periphery’s debt crisis,” Akos Herczenik and Levente Blaho, analysts at Raiffeisen Bank
International AG, in Budapest wrote in a research report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  