-- 
Turkish Central Bank Leaves Benchmark Rate, Reserve Requirements Unchanged

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-05-25T12:13:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/turkish-central-bank-leaves-benchmark-interest-rate-unchanged.html
Turkey ’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a fourth month as Governor
Erdem Basci tracks curbs on bank lending for signs they’re
reining in demand for imports.  The central bank in Ankara kept its one-week repo lending
rate at a record low of 6.25 percent, according to an e-mailed
statement today. That matched the forecast of all 12 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank will release minutes of the
meeting within five working days.  Basci is trying to slow economic growth, which draws in
imports, without raising the benchmark rate and attracting
short-term capital. He has added 10 percentage points to  reserve
requirements  since December, aiming to reduce the amount of
money banks can lend. Growth is “moderate” and food prices are
likely to cause a jump in the inflation rate in May, the bank
said in today’s statement.  “The bank just wants to see the results of all the
measures taken so far,” said  Yarkin Cebeci , an Istanbul-based
economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co. “It’s also doing a good job
preparing the market for a sharp jump in inflation this month.”  Yields on two-year lira debt fell 9 basis points, or 0.09
percentage points, to 8.88 percent after the announcement. Nine
of 16 economists and strategist questioned by Bloomberg had
predicted a new increase to reserve requirements.  Loan Growth  The central bank and government say they want loan growth
to slow to 25 percent annually this year, from about 36 percent
this month. The government is ready to respond with fiscal and
monetary measures should the central bank’s actions fail to stem
the expansion, Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek said on May 16.  Bank lending expanded at the fastest pace since September
in the week ending May 16.  While the job market has improved, demand for Turkish
exports remains weak and overall conditions “have not reached
the level to put pressure on inflation,” the bank said. The
increase in the inflation rate in May from 4.3 percent in April
will be caused by the comparison with last year, when food
prices fell, it said.  “Despite the bank’s comments we still observe that loan
growth is not slowing and, more importantly, the deterioration
in the current-account deficit, which threatens stability,”
continues at full speed,” Ozgur Altug, chief economist for BGC
Partners in Istanbul, wrote in an e-mailed report. The bank and
other Turkish authorities “might be forced to take additional
measures in the coming period.”  Third Term  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  is campaigning for a
third term in office in June 12 parliamentary elections, boosted
by economic growth of 8.9 percent last year.  That domestic expansion is pulling in goods and raw
materials, driving the cumulative current-account deficit for
the 12 months including March to $60.5 billion, or about 7.7
percent of the forecast gross domestic product for 2011. The
government’s economic program estimates a gap of $39.3 billion
and a deficit of 5.4 percent of GDP this year. The Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development said today the current-
account deficit may widen to 8.7 percent of GDP this year.  The bank raised its inflation forecast for 2011 to 6.9
percent from 5.9 percent on April 28, citing higher  oil prices 
and taxes on textiles.  The bank’s forecast assumes “limited tightening” of
monetary policy in the second half and loan growth of 20 to 25
percent, Basci said. The estimate compares with the bank’s
official target of 5.5 percent.  Higher reserves will damage bank earnings, partly because
the central bank doesn’t pay interest on the money. The index of
banking shares, including lenders such as Akbank TAS, part-owned
by Citigroup Inc., has fallen 8 percent this year, while the
main  ISE National 100 index (XU100)  declined 2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 