-- 
Facebook’s Zuckerberg Says Music, TV Are Social Frontiers

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-05-25T20:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/music-tv-are-next-social-frontiers-zuckerberg.html
Facebook Inc. founder and Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  said music, television shows
and books will be among the next products to become “social”
through the website, the world’s largest social network.  These “media experiences” probably will follow the path
of computer games, which have been transformed by the Facebook
platform, Zuckerberg said at the EG8 technology forum in Paris.
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  has also been talking with Facebook about ways to
integrate social-networking tools, he said.  “Listening to music is something people do with their
friends,” he said. “Movies, TV, news, books -- those types of
things are things I think people just naturally do with their
friends. I hope we can play a part in enabling those new
companies to get built, and companies that are out there
producing this great content to become more social.”  Facebook is expanding into new content areas to lure
advertisers and head off challenges from  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the owner
of the world’s largest Internet-search engine.  Palo Alto ,
California-based Facebook may generate more than $2 billion in
adjusted earnings this year, buoyed by advertisers such as Coca-
Cola Co. and Adidas AG, a person with knowledge of the matter
said earlier this month. The site has more than half a billion
users.  Path to Consumers  Integrating more content with Facebook would give media
companies another path to consumers, who have been harder to
reach as their options broaden to include  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes,
Google’s television services, and dedicated online players
including Hulu LLC and Netflix.  Netflix, which has begun purchasing the rights to first-run
TV shows on its own, is talking with Facebook about how to
employ social tools, Zuckerberg said today. Netflix shares
jumped $11.87, or 4.8 percent, to a record $259.47 at 4 p.m. New
York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Facebook began letting third-party developers offer games
on its site in 2007. Since then, social-gaming companies such as
Zynga Inc. have become among the largest in the industry.  Zynga, the biggest provider of games on Facebook, is now
the second-most valuable U.S. game developer, with a market
capitalization of $8.2 billion on the SharesPost Inc. private-
company exchange. Zynga’s games include three of the four more
popular games on Facebook -- “CityVille,” “FarmVille” and
“Texas HoldEm Poker.”  Zuckerberg, 27, also said in Paris that Facebook isn’t
working on a service that would open accounts to children under
13, who are currently barred from the site. Such a service could
be considered in the future, possibly in conjunction with the
development of educational tools, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Browning  in Paris via 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  