-- 
Valero Corpus East Conducting Work on Coker, Treating Unit

-- B y   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-05-25T19:58:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/valero-corpus-christi-east-refinery-plans-maintenance-on-coker.html
Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  is conducting
unplanned maintenance on a gasoil treating unit and planned work
on a coker at its Corpus Christi East refinery in  Texas , the
company said in regulatory filings.  The San Antonio-based company has reduced rates,
temperatures and pressures on the gasoil unit in Complex 7 to
bring it down slowly and minimize venting to flare, according to
a  notice  filed with the  Texas Commission on Environmental
Quality . The company said in an earlier filing that it is also
planning to reduce rates and start maintenance on a coker in the
same complex.  The work won’t affect production,  Bill Day , a company
spokesman based in  San Antonio , said in e-mails today.  Day said the planned maintenance is to clean the coker,
while the work on the hydrotreater is to fix a leaking tube.  Maintenance on the treating unit will end at 2 a.m. local
time tomorrow, according to the filing. Flaring associated with
the coker work was scheduled to begin today at 8 a.m. local time
and last 24 hours.  Outages can increase prices for refined products as
companies turn to spot markets to help them meet supply
contracts. Operational disruptions can also depress prices for
crude oil as less feedstock is used.  The Corpus Christi refinery consists of an east and west
plant about a mile apart. It has a throughput capacity of about
315,000 barrels a day, according to the company’s  website . The
East plant can process 110,000 barrels of crude a day, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leela Landress in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  