-- 
Vinik Seeks Repeat of Stock Market Success With NHL’s Tampa Bay Lightning

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-05-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/vinik-seeks-repeat-of-stock-market-success-with-nhl-s-tampa-bay-lightning.html
Jeff Vinik sat inside the Four
Seasons Hotel in Vancouver three weeks after buying the Tampa
Bay Lightning, sipping a beer with Tod Leiweke, then the chief
executive of the  National Football League ’s Seattle Seahawks.  It was less than 24 hours before the 2010 Winter Olympic
gold medal hockey game between the U.S. and  Canada , and Leiweke
was in town with his wife, Tara, for the event.  Vinik, 52, who managed Fidelity’s Magellan Fund from July
1992 to May 1996 when it was the world’s largest mutual fund
with more than $56 billion in assets, eventually convinced
Leiweke to leave the NFL and run his new National Hockey League
team in Tampa, Florida. With the Lightning advancing to the
Eastern Conference finals in Vinik’s rookie season as an owner,
his judge of talent among sports executives may prove to be as
shrewd as his investing abilities, league and team personnel
said.  “The attitude that he brought here changed this
franchise,” Phil Esposito, one of the team’s founders and
current radio analyst, said in an interview before Game 3 of the
series in Tampa on May 19. “Frankly, I think he saved it. It
was starting to become doomed.”  Now under the guidance of Leiweke, 51, and General Manager
Steve Yzerman, the former Detroit Red Wings captain who also was
recruited to the team by Vinik, the Lightning are in the NHL’s
semifinals. Last night,  Tampa Bay  beat the Boston Bruins 5-4 to
force a Game 7 decider tomorrow to determine who will play the
 Vancouver Canucks  in the Stanley Cup finals.  Before Vinik, who is also a minority owner of baseball’s
 Boston Red Sox , bought the team and the St. Pete Times Forum for
about $110 million, the club had been owned by OK Hockey LLC, a
group headed by movie producer  Oren Koules  and former NHL player
Len Barrie. Koules and Barrie were the team’s fourth owners
since 1992, when it joined the NHL as an expansion franchise.  Previous Owners  Koules and Barrie bought the team from Detroit Pistons
owner Bill Davidson, who had purchased it from  Palm Beach ,
 Florida , insurance executive Art Williams.  After almost two decades of unstable ownership, Vinik’s
purchase has drawn support from the team’s locker room and
around the league, especially in the office of NHL Commissioner
Gary Bettman.  “If you were computer-generating what we needed for an
owner in Tampa Bay at the time, he was it,” Bettman said in a
May 19 interview. “He hires great people and he turns them
loose to do the things that need to be done. It’s evident by the
quick turnaround here.”  That’s a talent Vinik used successfully in the markets,
said John Boyd, 59, an editor of Fidelity Insight, an
independent newsletter for Fidelity investors.  Investments, Defensemen  “The ability to judge people and talent is not a small
skill to have as an investment manager,” Boyd said in a
telephone interview. “And a lot of questions he would be asking
about hockey players and management would be the same as those
he would ask about his investments.”  Vinik, the manager of JNV Partners LP, held stocks with a
market value of $4.66 billion as of March 31, according to a
Form 13F filed May 17 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Vinik tripled his stake in  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to 443,500
shares, acquired 800,000 shares of Deere & Co. and bought 1.25
million shares of FedEx Corp. with a stock-market value of
$116.9 million at the end of the first quarter.  He also is chairman of Vinik Asset Management, a Boston-
based hedge fund.  Unlike some sports owners, such as  Jerry Jones  of
football’s Dallas Cowboys or  Mark Cuban  of basketball’s  Dallas
Mavericks , Vinik shuns the spotlight.  Interview Rules  Before he considers an interview request, Vinik’s legal
team issues a set of guidelines that it says must be followed to
avoid any potential conflicts with the SEC, including that the
article is only about the Lightning and only mentions that he is
chairman of the hedge fund.  Bloomberg News declined to follow the guidelines, and Vinik
refused to be interviewed.  Vinik spoke with Bettman on NHL Radio on May 19, comparing
his ownership of the team to the stock market.  “I buy a stock because obviously I think it’s going to go
up over time,” Vinik told Bettman. “I re-evaluate it every day.
If you look at this hockey team, I thought we had a good team
coming into the season. I couldn’t be more pleased. I didn’t
expect to be here, but let’s keep going.”  Leiweke, who is also a minority owner of the team, decided
to join Vinik in part because of his plan to hire Yzerman, whose
 two-decades as captain  of the  Red Wings  was the longest in U.S.
sports history.  As a player, Yzerman, 46, wasn’t flashy and was known for
leading by his actions, not words.  “I just believe you do the job,” Yzerman said. “I’m not
into a lot of hype or self-promoting.”  Neither is Vinik, Yzerman said.  Clear Objective  “He’s very low-key, but he’s extremely observant of
everything that is going on,” the general manager said. “He’s
very understated but it’s very clear what he wants. He notices
everything, but he lets everybody do their job. I like the way
he operates.”  So does Leiweke, who said Vinik was “politely persistent”
while recruiting him.  “He’s not a guy who wears a plaid jacket or has the
traditional trademarks of a salesman,” Leiweke said. “But in
his own way, he’s quite an extraordinary salesman. He has such
conviction of his vision.”  Fifteen months after meeting in  Vancouver , Vinik and
Leiweke have set their sights on sharing some victory champagne,
possibly as soon as next month.  “With the exception of family, this is the love of his
life,” Leiweke said. “You can see it in his eyes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Tampa, Florida, at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  