-- 
West Africa’s Cocaine Trade Has Doubled in Five Years, UN Agency Estimates

-- B y   D r e w   H i n s h a w
-- 
2011-05-25T11:33:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/west-africa-s-cocaine-trade-has-doubled-in-five-years-un-agency-estimates.html
The amount of cocaine trafficked
through West Africa to  Europe  may have doubled since 2006 and
drug cartels are cooperating with al-Qaeda in the region, an
official with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime said.  As much as  80 metric tons of cocaine , worth $1.2 billion,
might pass through West Africa to Europe this year, Manuel de
Almeida Pereira, legal adviser to the Vienna-based anti-crime
unit of the UN, said in an interview on May 17.  Much of the product comes from  South America  and is brought
across the Atlantic by plane, then transited toward Europe
through the Middle East, he said. Drug cartels are beginning to
share weapons, information, safe houses, and other assets with
al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, Pereira said, citing “sources
of intelligence we cannot reveal.”  “I’m sure that they are in this country,” Pereira said
from Bissau, the capital of Guinea-Bissau on West Africa’s
Atlantic coast. “This is a new trend we have to address.”  Three Malians were detained in  Ghana  in December 2009 and
extradited to the U.S., where they were charged with trafficking
cocaine in order to finance terrorism. The case is ongoing. The
arrests “and other reports and congressional testimony suggest
that there may be collaboration between drug traffickers and
terrorist organizations in the region,” the  Congressional
Research Service  said in a report in February, 2010.  Guinea-Bissau  Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb operates in North Africa
and has kidnapped and ransomed foreigners in countries like
Mali, Niger and Mauritania.  In a May 18 interview, Guinea-Bissau’s Attorney General
Amine Michel Saad said terrorist activity in the country has
become “a reality.”  “This is more a problem for Europe and the U.S. and other
Western countries than it is for  Guinea-Bissau ,” Saad said.  UNODC is also concerned that cartels trafficking Afghan
heroin into the U.S. are passing through West African states,
particularly Nigeria and Guinea-Bissau, Pereira said.  “This is a very recent trend that we are still studying,”
he said. Saad described those concerns as “speculation.”  UNODC’s estimates of cocaine trafficked through West Africa
don’t include Guinea-Bissau, where the state’s inability to
patrol the islands beyond its capital has made the former “a
blank in terms of statistics,” Pereira said.  The coastal country of 1.5 million people doesn’t have a
single helicopter, airplane or boat that can monitor activity in
its 80 islands, where much of drug trafficking is thought to
take place.  “The areas where we have narco-trafficking are those where
we can’t even reach, no matter what’s happening there,” Saad
said. “It’s an impossibility.”  Local Consumption  UNODC is also concerned about West African consumption of
drugs, particularly crack cocaine, Pereira said. In the past
year, the organization witnessed a rise in the amount of crack
being sold locally, often at prices as low as 14,000  CFA francs 
($30) a gram.  The crack trade poses a security threat to regional states,
particularly Guinea-Bissau, which has only one rehabilitation
center and no prisons.  “This will increase violence, this will increase
robberies, this will increase many forms of criminality,” he
said. “This is a weak society, it can be destroyed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Hinshaw in Dakar via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 