-- 
Why Democrats Should Run From Success

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-05-25T18:38:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/why-democrats-should-run-from-success.html
It’s the morning after in upstate  New
York , America’s new bellwether. In a traditionally conservative
Congressional district, Democrat Kathy Hochul defeated
Republican Jane Corwin. The 43 percent of the vote Corwin
captured falls far shy of the 73 percent her Republican
predecessor received in 2010.  The shorthand explanation for this precipitous drop is
“Medicare.” Democratic attacks on the House Republicans’
budget, which includes a plan to reduce Medicare benefits for
Americans under age 55, are credited with the party’s victory.
The vagaries of local elections aside,that analysis is probably
correct given trends in recent polling and the content of the
advertising that dominated the campaign.  This would seem to give the Democrats a winning strategy
for 2010: Rally around the seemingly awesome powers of
preserving Medicare in its current unsustainable state.  Before attack plans are mapped, though, Democrats should
consider this:Even before the election, some Republicans,
including Massachusetts Senator  Scott Brown , had begun
distancing themselves from the aggressive cuts -- to both
spending on the elderly and poor and to tax rates on the wealthy
-- in the House Republican budget.  Newt Gingrich  went so far as
to call the GOP plan a case of  “right wing social
engineering.”  If last night’s results spur a wider Republican shift --
bipartisan talks led by Vice President  Joe Biden  were already
producing optimistic murmurs -- Democrats will face a choice.
They can work to coax Republicans into a bipartisan deal that
cuts spending and raises revenue, or they can gear up to use
Medicare as a political club in 2012. The latter course might
enable Democrats to retake the House; the former would extend to
their opponents precisely the kind of political cover
Republicans are probably seeking right now.  There are times when a party’s short-term self-interest is
in perfect sync with the nation’s. For Democrats, this may not
be one of them.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  