-- 
Winfrey Offers Farewell ‘Love Letter’ as Show Ends 25-Year Run

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-05-25T21:33:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/winfrey-offers-farewell-love-letter-to-fans-as-program-ends-25-year-run.html
Oprah Winfrey , who parlayed a Chicago
talk show into a multibillion-dollar media empire, said goodbye
to her 25-year-old afternoon TV program in a reflective final
broadcast without guests, surprises or giveaways.  “I’m truly amazed that I, who started out in rural
 Mississippi  in 1954 when the vision for a black girl was limited
to be either a maid or a teacher in a segregated school, could
end up here,” Winfrey, 57, said during the final broadcast of
“The Oprah Winfrey Show.” “You all have been a safe harbor
for me.”  Describing the last show as a “love letter” to her
audience, Winfrey spent the hour reflecting on the highlights of
4,561 shows, and the lessons she and her viewers learned.
Leading up to the finale, President  Barack Obama  and First Lady
 Michelle Obama  and actors Tom Hanks and  Tom Cruise  appeared as
guests during the last weeks.  “The Oprah Winfrey Show,” which first aired in 1986, drew
about 12 million viewers in the U.S. at its peak and hosted
about 30,000 guests on more than 4,500 episodes, Bloomberg
Businessweek reported in the May 23 edition. It was the fifth
most-watched syndicated show last week, with an average audience
of 7.35 million, according to Nielsen Co. data.  Winfrey is leaving her weekday talk show to focus on the
24-hour cable channel she and her Chicago-based production
company, Harpo, started with  Silver Spring , Maryland-based
 Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA)  Viewership of the Oprah Winfrey
Network has slid 25 percent since beginning in January.  Thanks to Viewers  “I thank you for tuning in everyday, along with your
mothers, your sisters and your daughters, your partners gay and
otherwise, your friends and all the husbands who got coaxed into
watching Oprah,” Winfrey said in her closing remarks. “I won’t
say goodbye, I’ll just say until we meet again.”  With the broadcast show over, Winfrey will begin appearing
more frequently on OWN. In September, the cable channel will
begin carrying vintage episodes of her talk show. OWN plans to
air 60 with new intros taped by Winfrey. In January, she will
start a new show, “Oprah’s Next Chapter.” The host committed
to appear on OWN about 70 hours a year, double what she
initially planned.  Winfrey has met with Broadway producers and may hit the
stage soon, the  Chicago Tribune  reported May 9, citing the host.
She has also dabbled in Hollywood. Winfrey received an Oscar
nomination in 1986 for her role in “The Color Purple.”  She was executive producer of “Precious,” a 2009 film
that won two Oscars. And she was the voice of a character in
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s 2009 film “The Princess and the Frog.”  Media Empire  Taking advantage of her show’s popularity, Winfrey
introduced O, The Oprah Magazine, created satellite radio shows,
produced films and developed syndicated TV shows with frequent
guests on her program including Dr. Phil McGraw and Dr. Mehmet Oz. Each success increased her fortune, estimated today at $2.7
billion by Forbes magazine.  Winfrey has given audience members more than 160 products
featured on her show, including electronics, kitchen appliances
and Volkswagen AG Beetles.  Her show also produced memorable TV moments.  Professing his love for girlfriend and actress Katie Holmes, Cruise jumped on Winfrey’s couches on air while
promoting “Mission Impossible: III.” The antics cost the movie
$100 million in box-office sales, according to  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) 
Chairman Sumner Redstone, who later decided not to renew the
actor’s  Paramount Pictures  contract.  Initial ratings for the final episode will be available
tomorrow, according to Nielsen. Detailed results won’t be ready
until June 7 because syndicated shows air at different times in
different markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  