-- 
Won Declines as Stock Outflows Persist on Europe Debt Concerns

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-05-25T07:00:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/won-declines-as-stock-outflows-persist-on-europe-debt-concerns.html
South Korea ’s won fell, touching a
seven-week low, as investors sought safer bets than emerging-
market assets on concern the European debt crisis will escalate.  Global funds sold more Korean stocks than they bought for a
10th day, the longest stretch of net sales since March 2009,
exchange data show.  Greece ’s two biggest union groups said
yesterday they plan to stage a rally on June 4 to protest the
government’s new state-asset sale plans and austerity measures.
The won weakened 2.7 percent this month, a decline second only
to  Malaysia ’s ringgit among  Asia ’s 10 most-traded currencies
excluding the yen.  “The Greece issue is a burden to Korean financial
markets,” said Seo Chul Soo, a bond trader at Daewoo Securities
Co. in  Seoul . “The stock market is down and the Korean won is
depreciating, but the Korean fixed-income market is benefitting
from the decline in the stock market.”  The won dropped 0.7 percent to 1,101.45 per dollar as of
the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency reached 1,101.68 today, the weakest
level since March 31. The benchmark Kospi stock index slid 1.3
percent.  South Korea’s finance minister nominee Bahk Jae Wan said at
a parliament confirmation hearing in Seoul today that he will
work to improve the nation’s resilience to external shocks and
sudden capital flows.  South Korea’s benchmark three-year bonds rose on
speculation investors sought safety in fixed-income securities.
The yield on the 3 percent note due December 2013 declined two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.57 percent,
according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc. That’s the lowest
level since Jan. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  