-- 
Alipay Gets ‘Critical’ China Payment License as Yahoo Seeks Compensation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-26T20:11:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/yahoo-ceo-bartz-says-alibaba-compensation-talks-progressing-1-.html
Alipay, the company at the center of
the latest dispute between Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and U.S.
shareholder Yahoo! Inc., was granted an online payment license
by  China .  The People’s Bank of China today announced Alipay was among
a group of companies that received licenses, Alibaba said in an
e-mailed statement. Yahoo said this month that a Chinese company
controlled by Alibaba Chairman Jack Ma acquired ownership of
Alipay to expedite the license application, even though the
transfer lacked approval from Alibaba’s board.  Yahoo Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz  said yesterday
she is making “significant” progress in talks to ensure
Alibaba is compensated for the spinoff of Alipay. Yahoo shares
have tumbled 13 percent since the spinoff’s disclosure raised
concern the U.S. company’s Chinese assets would lose value.
Alibaba has said new Chinese rules limiting foreign ownership of
payment companies prompted the reorganization of Alipay.  “Alibaba’s management has been very committed and
cooperative,” Bartz said during a presentation to investors in
 San Jose ,  California . Alibaba Group is negotiating with both
Yahoo and  Softbank Corp. (9984) , its second-largest investor.  The talks have two aims, Bartz said. The parties want to
make sure that the relationship between two Alibaba units,
Alipay and Taobao, “is structured to preserve the value within
Taobao -- and, by extension, Alibaba,” she said. Talks also
turn on making sure Alibaba is “appropriately compensated for
the value of Alipay,” Bartz said.  Asia  Discussions  Jerry Yang, co-founder of Yahoo and a member of the Alibaba
Group board, and Tim Morse, Yahoo’s chief financial officer,
flew to Asia last week for discussions regarding Alipay. Yang
said the regulatory environment in China has been changing,
requiring payment services to be Chinese-owned companies.  “Alibaba Group and all its shareholders have agreed that
having a license is critical,” Yang said. “Alibaba Group and
its shareholders need to be appropriately compensated for any
transfer.”  It took Yahoo more than five weeks after learning of the
spinoff to inform investors of the move.  Institutional
Shareholder Services Inc. , a shareholder advisory firm, plans to
review whether Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo acted in a
timely manner.  Three Quarters?  Yahoo’s 43 percent holding in Alibaba Group may account for
as much as three-quarters of the U.S. company’s market value,
said Sandeep Aggarwal, an analyst at Caris & Co. in San
Francisco. Alipay may be worth $5 billion, according to Gabelli
& Co.  Yahoo fell 17 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $15.98 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The
shares have slipped 3.9 percent this year.  Bartz, speaking at the investor conference, also said the
company’s turnaround effort is progressing, including an
agreement with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to outsource search technology.
While the initial results for advertising revenue per search
have been disappointing, Bartz said they are improving, and
Microsoft is providing financial help during the transition.  Last year, the company projected an average long-term sales
growth rate of 7 percent to 10 percent. While Yahoo is likely to
fall short of that rate this year, it expects to be in that
range in 2012 and 2013, Morse said.  The company also is working to get more value from another
Asian asset,  Yahoo Japan , Morse said.  Options include spinning it off or creating a tracking
stock, he said.  “We’re pursuing some very attractive alternatives, but
it’s not a quick and easy process,” he said. “We’re making
tangible progress, but patience is required as we work through
the process.”  --Brian Womack, with assistance from  Mark Lee . Editor: Lisa
Rapaport, Nick Turner, Terje Langeland  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  