-- 
Yanukovych Drives Ukraine Toward EU as Russian Natural Gas Agreement Looms

-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   [ b n : P R S N = 1 6 1 1 3 9 4 9 ]   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a   [ ]
-- 
2011-05-25T09:10:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/yanukovych-drives-ukraine-toward-eu-as-russian-gas-deal-looms.html
Ukrainian President  Viktor Yanukovych 
said he wants to pursue European Union membership for the former
Soviet republic that is also being wooed by a Russian-led
customs union with the lure of lower natural-gas prices.  The country of 46 million is the main transit route for
Russian fuel to EU countries, including Germany, Austria and
Poland. Yanukovych, 60, wants to cut the price it pays for
Russian gas by almost 20 percent to $240 per 1,000 cubic meters,
he said in an interview in his office in Kiev yesterday.  Russia is trying to use fuel prices as a lure to pull
Ukraine into a customs union with Belarus and Kazakhstan even as
the former Soviet republic looks to deepen economic and
political ties with the EU. Ukraine depends on  Russia  for more
than 50 percent of its natural-gas supply, which its eastern
neighbor shut off for two weeks in 2009.  “Our main priority is integration into the EU,”
Yanukovych said, surrounded by 20th century paintings of
Ukrainian landscapes. “We are ready to sign the association
agreement this year. We want the prospects of Ukraine entering
the EU to be included in this accord so that the accord would
not be empty.”  Ukraine sought to reset relations with Russia after
Yanukovych was elected last year. His predecessor,  Viktor Yushchenko , angered the Kremlin by backing  Georgia  during its
five-day war with Russia in 2008 and pushing for Ukraine’s
membership in the NATO.  Stocks, Currency Gain  The Ukrainian benchmark  stock index  rose 0.19 percent as of
11 a.m. in Kiev, while the hryvnia strengthened to 7.9965 to the
dollar, compared with 8.00 yesterday, Bloomberg data shows.  Yanukovych, from eastern Ukraine, pledged to improve
relations by cooperating with gas producer OAO Gazprom and ruled
out membership in the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization . He
kept the door open to the EU by taking his first trip as
president to Brussels before visiting Moscow.  Ukraine’s association agreement with the EU may be
concluded this year, European Commission President  Jose Barroso 
said in Kiev on April 18, adding that the two sides have made
progress on agreeing to visa-free travel.  Entering the customs union with Russia,  Kazakhstan  and
Belarus would end the chances for the agreement, he added.
Ukraine four days later said it won’t enter the customs union.  Russian `Partner'  “Russia was, is and will be our strategic partner,”
Yanukovych said. “We are now searching for mechanisms of
cooperation. We do think we can reach an agreement that will
allow us to work with the customs union to the extent which
Ukrainian laws and our obligations to world organizations such
as the  World Trade Organization  allow.”  Russian halted gas shipments to  Europe  through Ukraine for
two weeks in 2009, the second stoppage in three years, before
then-Premier Yulia Tymoshenko signed a 10-year contract with
Russia. Last April, Russia agreed to reduce the price it charges
Ukraine in exchange for extending the lease on a Black Sea naval
base.  Ukraine wants to review the agreement, which it considers
discriminatory, according to Yanukovych, whose office overlooks
Independence Square in central  Kiev . He ruled out a potential
merger between NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy and Gazprom, proposed by
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin .  Asset Sales  “Should Ukraine sell part of its energy resources, it will
be done in a transparent way on market conditions,” Yanukovych
said. “Such big enterprises as energy companies will undergo
registration for initial public offering in the near future.”  Yanukovych, who met with Gazprom’s Chief Executive Officer
Alexei Miller yesterday, plans to meet his Russian counterpart,
 Dmitry Medvedev , in the end of June, according to a statement
posted on his website yesterday.  Sergei Kupriyanov , a spokesman for OAO Gazprom, Russia’s
gas export monopoly, declined to comment on talks with Ukraine.  Russia buys 27 percent of Ukraine’s exports, compared with
28 percent purchased by the EU. Ukraine’s economy will probably
expand at a faster pace this year than in 2010, Yanukovych said.
Gross domestic product may rise about 5 percent, compared with
4.2 percent in the previous year, he said.  Ukraine in July obtained a $15.6 billion loan from the
 International Monetary Fund , its second bailout in two years.
The fund has released $3.4 billion in two tranches, helping the
government cover its  budget deficit  and boost foreign-currency
reserves. The third disbursement, initially planned for March,
has been delayed as the Cabinet and legislature iron out pension
system changes.  The country will continue its cooperation with the IMF,
Yanukovych said, and will be ready to host the Euro-2012 soccer
championship together with  Poland .  “Ukraine, with several exceptions, is sticking to
preparation plans,” Yanukovych said. “I’m sure Ukraine will be
on time and will be completely ready to host the Euro-2012.” 