-- 
Yemen Shortages Worsen as Street Violence Leaves Locals Searching for Food

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-05-25T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-25/yemen-economic-crisis-deepens-with-fuel-shortage-after-violence.html
Safiah Hussein al-Raimi stood for
hours outside a store in  Yemen ’s capital, Sana’a, for five
straight days to buy a tank of cooking gas to prepare food for
her husband and four children. She left empty handed each time.  “Life is becoming hell here and we can’t afford it,” al-
Raimi, 43, said as she lined up during her fifth attempt. “We
have no gas, no power, not enough food.”  As President Ali Abdullah Saleh clings to power and Yemen
edges closer to civil war, the country has become paralyzed by
shortages of fuel, bread, sugar and milk. Power cuts, which were
the source of riots in the south last year, are now commonplace
across the country, already the Arab world’s poorest and a base
for al-Qaeda terrorist activity.  With the wave of popular uprisings in the Middle East in
its fifth month, the issue of how long Saleh’s regime will last
in Yemen is being compounded by the question of what would be
left of the country should he be ousted.  “Yemen’s economy is already at a crisis point,” said Will
Picard, director of the  Yemen Peace Project , a U.S.-based group.
“No one is earning money, save the gasoline sellers, arms
dealers, and foreign journalists.”  More Violence  Gunmen from Yemen’s most influential tribe clashed on May
24 with security forces loyal to Saleh, 68, in Sana’a, a day
after he refused to sign an accord to give up power.  Dozens were killed or wounded in an assault on the home of
tribal chief Sheikh Sadeq al-Ahmar, said Sheikh Saleh al-
Mihjani, a member of the tribe.  The Interior Ministry  said that
14 policemen were killed, 29 others wounded and two are missing.  Shortages of cooking gas and petrol are being reported
across the country, and cars are often turned away as they try
to refuel. The shelves at local supermarkets are increasingly
barren, with basic food items marketed up amid low stock.  The price of a 50 kilogram (110 pound) sack of sugar jumped
22 percent to 11,000 rials ($51.50) at al-Raimi’s local grocery
store since the protests escalated in February.  Yemen already faces a severe water shortage, with the  World
Bank  forecasting that Sana’a will be the first capital city to
run out of water by 2025. More than half the country’s
population of 23 million is under 20 years old and about 40
percent of the people live on the equivalent of less than $2 a
day, according to the  United Nations .  Bad Shape  Oil accounts for 60 percent of government revenue and 90
percent of exports, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a
report on April 8. Oil reserves are expected to be depleted
within a decade, the Washington-based organization said.  Saleh said yesterday that the economy is “not in good
shape.” Industry and Trade Minister Hisham Sharaf said the
protests cost Yemen $4 billion and a growing budget deficit, now
expected to reach $3 billion, threatens to destroy the country.  “The government is running out of money,” Abdul Ghani
Aryani, an independent political analyst, said in a telephone
interview from Sana’a. “The deficit is now close to half the
national budget and as a consequence there isn’t enough foreign
exchange to import food stuffs.”  The country postponed the sale of a 25 billion-rial Islamic
bond indefinitely as a result of the political unrest, Kamal Al- Rabie, general manager of the central bank’s Islamic unit, said
in an interview on May 17.  Black Markets  Black markets are burgeoning across Yemen as people look to
profit from the shortages. Khalid Saleh, a supermarket owner in
Sana’a, said he’s losing business by the day and revenue has
fallen 30 percent since the uprisings began. Al-Raimi said she
can’t afford the marked up prices.  “I bought a cooking machine that works on electricity but
it’s impossible since power goes off four times a day, each time
for three or four hours,” she said.  Yemenis struggled to make ends meet before anti-government
protests seeking to topple Saleh deepened the economic crisis.
Demonstrators, like their counterparts in Libya and  Syria , are
demanding an end to corruption, and more jobs and freedom.  The difference in Yemen is that Saleh’s opposition is
fragmented along tribal lines, posing the biggest challenge to
the country since north and south were unified in 1990. Saleh
said yesterday that recent violent threatened civil war and
accused al-Qaeda of inciting protests.  “Every day Saleh stays on the throne is another day that
Yemen’s already non-existent wealth is divvied up among his
allies-for-hire,” Picard said by e-mail on May 23. “Economic
recovery of any kind would be impossible given that fact.”  Bin Laden  A U.S. ally and the ancestral home of  Osama bin Laden ,
Saleh also struggled to quell the threat of terrorists. Al-Qaeda
in the Arabian Peninsula, the Yemen-based branch of the group,
said in a May 10 statement that it would avenge  bin Laden ’s
death in a Pakistan raid on his hideout by U.S. forces.  This week, prospects for peace grew dimmer after the six-
nation  Gulf Cooperation Council  abandoned efforts to broker an
agreement between the country’s political parties that would
pave the way for a transition of power in Yemen.  Saleh, who reiterated yesterday that he would be willing to
sign the agreement, earlier called the deal a “coup on
constitutional legitimacy.” Anti-government protesters maintain
the only acceptable solution is for Saleh to leave immediately.  “Outside investors and foreign donors will not put a penny
into this country if things continue to looks so unstable,”
 Mustafa Alani , director of security and terrorism research at
the Gulf Research Center, said by telephone from Dubai. “These
problems will not go away with a magic stick.”  Arab Grievances  The grievances of Yemenis are similar to those of young
people across the Arab world, though  regional and sectarian .  Separatists claim the government discriminates against
southerners, claiming the north seizes the proceeds of Yemen’s
southern oil reserves for its own purposes. Shiite Houthi rebels
have also been battling the government, claiming discrimination.  Saudi Arabia  sends about $1 billion a year to Yemen in an
attempt to keep the country “contained” and buy tribal
support, according to Alani. The U.S. gives Yemen $300 million a
year mainly in military aid.  “The Yemeni government has been mismanaged for more than
three decades so there is no shortage of things that have to be
done and quite quickly,”  Gregory Johnsen , a Yemen expert at
 Princeton University , said by telephone from Cairo. “One of the
main things is  job creation  but that can’t be done over night.”  The IMF said on April 27 that aid talks with the government
of Yemen are on hold until there is greater stability. While
unemployment in Yemen stood at 15 percent in 2008, the rate for
youths between 15 and 24 years old climbed to 52.9 percent that
year,  UN figures show.   In the line for cooking fuel in Sana’a, al-Raimi is itching
to get back to her kids at home, though she is unsure what kind
of meal she’ll be able to prepare.  “I’m not able to cook for them,” al-Raimi said. “We just
need the basics to live and we are not able to get them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 