-- 
‘3-D Hurricane’ Bears Down on Developed World: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-06-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/-3-d-hurricane-bears-down-on-developed-world-chart-of-the-day.html
There’s a “3-D hurricane” coming
to the U.S. and other developed countries that will limit
economic growth and market returns for years, according to Jason Hsu, chief investment officer at Research Affiliates LLC.  Hsu used the phrase to characterize the nations’ mounting
debts, sustained deficit spending and demographic shifts to an
older population, as outlined in a report last week.  The CHART OF THE DAY depicts what’s heading for the  U.S.
economy . As the top panel shows, the debt burden of households,
businesses and government has increased and federal budget gaps
have widened since 2001. The bottom panel tracks a decline in
the number of workers for each recipient of Social Security.  “ Ben Bernanke  in a helicopter will not stop the
hurricane’s devastating path,” Hsu  wrote , referring to the
Federal Reserve chairman’s study of monetary policy alternatives
that economist  Milton Friedman  likened to dropping money from a
copter. “More stimulus packages will not stop it. Blaming the
Chinese for lending us too much money will not stop it.”  The storm will leave developed countries with the “new
normal” that Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s
biggest bond-fund manager, predicted two years ago, according to
Hsu. They will also have to cope with higher inflation rates,
increased borrowing costs and falling currency values, he wrote.  Emerging economies will be increasingly responsible for
global growth, in his view, as debt, deficits and demographics
work in their favor. They are likely to become more creditworthy
than many developed countries “in short order,” the report
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  