-- 
‘Quit Day’ Text Messages Help Smokers Kick Habit, Research Shows

-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 
2011-06-29T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/-quit-day-text-messages-help-smokers-kick-habit-research-shows.html
Smokers who received  text messages 
encouraging them to kick the habit were more than twice as
likely to succeed as those who didn’t get the messages,
according to a  trial  published today by The Lancet.  About 11 percent of smokers in the U.K. study who received
text messages supporting their efforts to quit, helping them to
deal with cravings or giving them advice about keeping off
weight didn’t resume smoking six months later. That compared
with about 5 percent of those who received “placebo” messages
thanking them for taking part in the study, reminding them about
appointments or that had nothing to do with smoking.  Those who reported they were no longer lighting up after
six months sent researchers a saliva sample that was tested for
the presence of a nicotine byproduct that determines if a person
has or hasn’t been smoking. The study is the first to use such
tests to verify quitting rates, said lead author Caroline Free,
a family doctor and clinical lecturer at the  London School  of
Hygiene and  Tropical Medicine  in  London .  “We thought that texting worked in the short term, but
obviously what matters in smoking is the long term and that is
what this trial set out to do,” Free said in a telephone
interview.  About 3 percent of smokers who seek to quit with no support
or medication succeed after one year, Free said. Existing
smoking-cessation programs, such as counseling or medication,
double a person’s chances of kicking the habit, she said.  ‘Quit Day’  The smokers in the study received five text messages a day
for the first five weeks and then three a week for the next 26
weeks. Motivational messages included: "This is it! QUIT DAY,"
"Carbon monoxide has now left your body," and "Cravings last
less than 5 minutes on average."  Twenty-eight percent of people who told the researchers
they had stopped smoking didn’t pass the biochemical test,
meaning they hadn’t actually dropped their habit as they had
claimed, Free said. They were classified as smokers when
researchers analyzed their data. The test is about 90 percent
reliable, Free said.  In an accompanying editorial, two researchers at the
University of Oxford said that mobile-phone text messaging
systems may help reduce  smoking in low- and middle-income
countries  where tobacco consumption is expected to peak in the
coming decades. The technology is inexpensive and increasingly
available there, wrote Derrick A. Bennett and Jonathan R.
Emberson of Oxford.  The U.K. trial enrolled 5,800 people age 16 to 79 who were
seeking to quit smoking and owned a mobile phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  