-- 
Afghan Violence, Civilian Deaths Increasing, UN Chief Reports

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-29T16:46:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/afghan-violence-civilian-deaths-increasing-un-chief-reports.html
Violence in  Afghanistan , led by
Taliban suicide attacks and assassinations, increased by 51
percent in the past three months compared with the same period
in 2010,  United Nations  Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said.  “The majority of incidents involved armed clashes and
improvised explosive devices,” Ban said in a report released
today. “Suicide attacks have increased significantly since
March. Abductions and assassinations of Afghan citizens also
rose.”  The report came the day after Taliban guerrillas armed with
automatic weapons and explosives stormed the Hotel Inter-
Continental in Kabul, triggering a five-hour gun battle with
Afghan troops and police that left 12 people dead.  Ban said the UN documented 2,950 civilian casualties in the
past three months, a 20 percent increase over the same 2010
period that includes 1,090 deaths and 1,860 injuries. Anti-
government forces were linked to 80 percent of the casualties
and Afghan, U.S. and allied military actions caused 10 percent,
the report said. The other 10 percent could not be attributed to
either side.  “The rise in civilian casualties, following the Taliban’s
announcement of a spring offensive on 30 April, was due in part
to an expansion in the operations of anti-government elements
and pro-government forces throughout the country, particularly
in the north and in the regions bordering  Pakistan ,” Ban said
in the report to the  Security Council .  “All concerned must do their utmost to protect civilians
and comply with their obligations under international
humanitarian law,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  