-- 
AFL-CIO Joins $10 Billion Effort for Jobs, Infrastructure

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-06-29T19:16:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/afl-cio-joins-10-billion-effort-to-boost-jobs-infrastructure.html
The AFL-CIO said it will work with
investors and businesses to help funnel $10 billion during the
next five years into construction work that will create jobs.  The AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor federation, will join
financial institutions, pension funds and money managers to
promote infrastructure development, and pledged at least $20
million to retrofit buildings over the next 12 months, according
to a union statement today.  “We, at the AFL-CIO, believe that together, with our
partners in business and government, we can profitably invest
significant resources to make America more competitive and
energy efficient,” President  Richard Trumka  said in the
statement released at the Clinton Global Initiative in Chicago.  The AFL-CIO will work with companies such as  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ,  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI)  and other financial entities to
generate as much as $10 billion in new funding. The project will
set up accounts to help lure investments from pension funds and
money managers, AFL-CIO officials said.  The effort by government, business and labor will encourage
pension funds to invest in infrastructure and job creation, the
officials said. The AFL-CIO estimates at least $10 billion in
workers’ capital held by funds will be invested over five years
for infrastructure modernization.  “The time is now to become intensely focused on the
creation of jobs, and America’s Building Trades Unions are
ready, willing and able to work with any and all partners to map
out a multi-year plan of infrastructure investment,” Mark Ayers, president of the Building and Construction Trades
Department, AFL-CIO, which coordinates with national and
international unions, said in the statement.  $2.64 Trillion  Assets held by the 100 largest government pension funds
grew 5.5 percent to $2.64 trillion at the end of 2010 from three
months earlier, the U.S. Census Bureau reported on March 31. The
increase was 5.9 percent in the third quarter.  The AFL-CIO said the infrastructure plan will promote
investment, make buildings more energy efficient and expand
worker training related to construction. The plan seeks to train
40,000 apprentices in specialty welding, as well as upgrading
and certifying 100,000 mid-career construction workers over the
next year, according to the statement.  The  Chicago  meeting will include more than 700 business,
non-profit and government leaders such as U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner , and Republican governors  Haley
Barbour  of Mississippi and  Mitch Daniels  of  Indiana , according
to the organization’s website.  Trumka was slated to give a speech at the event, until a
foot injury forced him to cancel the appearance, Alison Omens, a
spokeswoman for the union, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in  Washington  at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 