-- 
Lagarde Exit Worsens Sarkozy Failure on Gender Parity Pledged in Campaign

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-06-30T06:44:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/lagarde-exit-worsens-sarkozy-failure-on-gender-parity-pledged-in-campaign.html
Christine Lagarde ’s exit from French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s cabinet of ministers reduces the
proportion of women in  his government  to 29 percent, far short
of the gender parity he pledged during his election campaign.  Lagarde, 55, who was this week named the first woman to
head the  International Monetary Fund , was replaced yesterday as
French Finance Minister by  Francois Baroin , 46. Lagarde is
taking over at the IMF from  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , who quit
after his arrest last month on charges including attempted rape.  Sarkozy promised in the run up to the 2007 vote that at
least half his ministerial posts would be held by women. With
the proportion of women now five percentage points lower than
before, he will be hard pressed to defend his record on gender
equality as he heads toward the 2012 presidential race. His new
team cuts the number of women ministers to six out of 24 and
female junior ministers to four out of 10. It also leaves no
administrative office in  France  with a female chief.  “The gender gap shows a cultural gap,” said Bruno Cautres, a political analyst at  Cevipof , a Paris-based political
research center. “France is struggling to catch up with the
mentality change in other European countries. Sarkozy had it all
in the beginning, women, minorities and women from minorities in
minister jobs. The government now reflects how the French
mentality has changed, which is very little.”  Lagarde is the latest and also the most senior female
minister to leave Sarkozy’s cabinet. Right after he took office,
women controlled the most important ministries, from finance and
defense to justice and health. That’s no longer the case.  Bigger Role  In an index in the  World Economic Forum ’s October Gender
Gap Report, France fell 28 places in one year to number 46
 behind Namibia , Mozambique and  Kazakhstan .  A rise in the index would require a “higher number of
women in leading roles in the current administration and
improvements in the wage gap,” the report said. Iceland, Norway
and  Finland  lead the index, the U.K. ranks 15 and the U.S. 19.  “During 2008-09, following President Sarkozy’s entry into
government, there was a highly publicized rise in the number of
women holding ministerial positions,” the WEF report said,
witnessing a “considerable change in proportion” last year.  All major female figures of Sarkozy’s team are gone. Rama Yade, a minister of Senegalese origin who held first the human
rights and then the Sports portfolios, was ousted in November.
Rachida Dati, the former justice minister who is of Arab
descent, left in 2009 and Fadela Amara, the junior minister for
urban affairs, was fired in 2010. Even the powerful political
figure from the governing party, Michele Alliot-Marie, who held
the defense, interior, justice and then the foreign affairs
ministries, was pushed out in February.  ‘Less Testoterone’  “It’s a pity there no longer is a woman in one of the main
ministries, interior, justice, defense or economy,” said
Chantal Brunel, a lawmaker from Sarkozy’s Union for a Popular
Movement party. “In terms of  gender equality , this cabinet
shuffle makes no progress; rather it’s a slight step backward.”  Shortly before her IMF appointment was made public, Lagarde
said she would like to see a woman take over her finance
minister job.  “Of course I’d like to see a woman in my job, I am for
more women! But it’s the president who decides,” she told
Bloomberg News on the side of a presidential press conference on
June 27 in Paris. On  ABC News  in October, Lagarde famously said
that women “inject less testosterone in the equation.”  Sarkozy’s gender record took another hit when this month he
replaced  Anne Lauvergeon , the chief executive officer of the
state-controlled nuclear reactor builder  Areva SA (CEI) , with her
deputy Luc Oursel.  Missed Opportunity  Not one of the companies that make up the country’s
benchmark CAC 40 stock index has a female CEO. That puts France
behind the U.K., with a February report by the Cranfield
University School of Management showing that  five women hold CEO
positions  among the FTSE 100 companies.  Granted, Sarkozy’s record is no worse than that of his
predecessor  Jacques Chirac . Former Prime Minister Lionel Jospin’s government was the last with women comprising more than
30 percent. France’s most senior woman politician was Edith Cresson, who was premier for less than a year from 1991 to 1992.  “You can’t judge the government’s record at this one
moment,” said Sarkozy’s spokesman, Franck Louvrier. “On the
whole, the government has done a lot for women. Never have women
been given so much responsibility. Gender parity is difficult to
measure. What matters is giving women responsibility.”  Little to Show  Most high-profile jobs in state-held or government-
controlled companies have gone to men since 2007. Only the head
of Arte public television is a woman.  Two out of Sarkozy’s  15
closest aides at the Elysee presidential palace are women, and
only nine women work in the 51-strong presidential cabinet.  Politicians of Sarkozy’s UMP party, including lawmaker
Francoise Guegot, handed him a report on March 7 demanding that
the state  impose a minimum of 40 percent of females  for top
administration jobs by 2015 and in 2017 for ministers, prefects,
rectors and ambassadors.  While 51.7 percent of French civil servants are women, only
20.3 percent of them hold managerial positions, Guegot said,
with 10 percent of prefects and 11 percent of ambassadors.
France’s lower chamber of Parliament has  19.6 percent  of women
and the Senate 23.5 percent, putting France at the 19th level in
European ranking and 58th worldwide.  As Sarkozy starts informally campaigning for the 2012
presidential elections, he may lay out his record on the
economic, educational, industrial and international fronts. He
will have less to say about his gender-equality achievements.  “When the time comes to show what he has done for women,
Sarkozy will have little to say,” Cautres said. “He has missed
a great opportunity for himself but also to modernize the elites
of the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 Hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  