-- 
AGL Energy Said to Seek A$1 Billion of Loans to Refinance Debt

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-06-29T03:32:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/agl-energy-said-to-seek-a-1-billion-of-loans-to-refinance-debt.html
AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK) , an Australian
renewable energy company, approached banks to help arrange A$1
billion ($1.05 billion) of loans to refinance debt, according to
three people familiar with the matter.  The revolving credit facilities may be arranged as a so-
called club transaction, one of the people said, asking not to
be identified as details are private. In a revolving credit
facility money that’s been repaid can be borrowed again.  Policies in  Australia  to encourage the development of
renewable energy projects will drive at least A$36 billion of
investment by 2020, according to a Bloomberg New Energy Finance
forecast. About A$28 billion will be spent building large-scale
power projects such as wind farms while a further A$8 billion
will be invested by households and businesses in smaller rooftop
solar systems, the May 2 report said.  AGL, based in  Melbourne , sold its 67.2-megawatt wind park
in the state of Victoria earlier this week and will continue to
develop the project until completion in early 2012. Australian
utilities are recycling investments in renewable energy assets
and keeping the electricity for their own use to help fund new
projects while meeting emissions goals.  The company has an A$886 million syndicated loan maturing
in October, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
facility should be refinanced prior to the company announcing
its full-year 2011 financial results, according to a  May 4 
presentation by Chief Executive Officer Michael Fraser. It’s due
to announce its annual results on  August 25 , according to the
company’s website.  AGL’s head of capital markets, John Hobson, declined to
comment when called at his office in Sydney.  Refinancing Debt  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Westpac Banking Corp.
helped arrange the A$886 million facility in 2006, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. AGL has about A$1.5 billion of loans
maturing before the end of next year, the data show.  TRUenergy Holdings Pty, a unit of  Hong Kong ’s  CLP Holdings
Ltd. (2) , signed A$2.05 billion of loans earlier this week,
Bloomberg data show. TRUenergy and Sydney-based  Origin Energy
Ltd. (ORG)  outbid AGL in December for state electricity assets worth
A$5.3 billion. TRUenergy bought assets including retailer
 EnergyAustralia , while Origin gained  Country Energy  and Integral
Energy.  AGL shares were trading A$0.02 higher at A$14.24 as of 1:09
p.m. in Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net 
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  