-- 
Malaysia to Put Safety Terms on Lynas Plant

-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-06-30T01:36:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/malaysia-to-put-safety-terms-on-lynas-plant.html
Lynas Corp. will only be granted a
license for a Malaysian rare-earth refinery if it implements
recommendations made by a panel of experts that may take a year
to complete, an official familiar with the matter said.  The Sydney-based company will need to satisfy 11
conditions, including technical and safety measures as well as a
decommissioning plan for the plant that’s nearing completion in
 Malaysia ’s eastern Pahang state, said the person, who couldn’t
be named as the information is confidential.  Lynas had planned to process ore from its Mount Weld mine
in  Western Australia  at the plant from September. Delaying
output may further tighten the rare earths market where prices
have more than doubled as the biggest producer,  China , cuts
export quotas.  “Any project delays will just make the minerals more
valuable and send prices higher,” Peter Strachan, who heads
Perth-based independent advisory firm StockAnalysis, said by
phone from Perth. “You would have expected Lynas to have ticked
all the boxes and done all the appropriate feasibility,
environmental and regulatory work.”  Lynas today halted its shares from trading pending an
update on the plant review. Its shares have fallen 3.9 percent
since the start of the year. Matthew James, a Lynas spokesman,
declined to comment when contacted by e-mail today.  Briefing Today  The International Trade and Industry Ministry will hold a
briefing on the review in  Kuala Lumpur  today, following
recommendations by a panel of experts appointed by the
 International Atomic Energy Agency , according to a media
invitation.  Rebecca Fatima Sta Maria, the ministry’s secretary-general,
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News late
yesterday.  Prices of rare earths, 17 chemically similar elements used
in lasers, plasma televisions and hybrid cars, have more than
doubled since the first quarter. China, which controls over 90
percent of the global market, further restricted rare-earth
mining while cutting exports to conserve resources and protect
the environment.  Local residents and non-governmental organizations have
lobbied to stop Lynas from operating the plant over radiation
fears. Risks arising from the project outweigh economic gains,
Fuziah Salleh, a local member of parliament, said on April 22.  The Southeast Asian nation’s government asked the IAEA to
appoint an independent international panel to look into public
concerns before allowing the miner to import minerals.  Televisions, Hybrid Cars  Lynas wants to tap growing global demand for its minerals
that are used in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPod music players, flat-screen
televisions and hybrid cars.  The company said in a statement on April 22 its refinery is
safe and presents no hazard to the public and its workers.  Protests over the past three months, including a march on
Parliament and the Australian High Commission in Kuala Lumpur,
took place following leakages at  Japan ’s nuclear power plants
after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net . 