-- 
Tale of Two Visions for Euro Boils Beneath Fight to Fix Greek Debt Crisis

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-06-29T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/tale-of-two-visions-for-euro-boils-beneath-greek-crisis-fight.html
The longer  Greece  avoids default,
the closer European leaders come to breaking one of their oldest
taboos by taking responsibility for the finances of a neighbor.  Even as they resist European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet’s call for a “major strengthening” of fiscal
ties, European authorities are becoming the biggest holders of
Greek debt. That would leave the country a virtual ward of the
state, the objection of the bloc’s politicians to sharing
sovereignty undercut by their own efforts to save the euro.  “The more debt restructuring is avoided the more Greece’s
liabilities are socialized and the more a de facto fiscal union
occurs,” said David Mackie, chief European economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London . “If the ECB is successful in
its attempt to prevent any kind of restructuring in the near-
term, the region will move down the path towards the destination
Trichet wants.”  Greek lawmakers yesterday approved an austerity package,
clearing the way for the second international rescue in two
years, which would expand taxpayers’ stake in  Europe ’s most-
indebted country. For investors, greater subsidies from the
strong to the weak risk hurting the German bonds that serve as
the region’s benchmark.  The outcome of the scrap may determine whether the euro
evolves or runs aground on the concern that its 17 members are
too diverse to be united in one currency if some aren’t willing
to abide by the rules and others won’t aid those in trouble.  Europe’s ‘Crossroads’  “We are at the crossroads for Europe,” said  Guy Verhofstadt , Belgium’s prime minister for most of the euro’s
first decade, said in an interview. “It is impossible to have
monetary union in the coming years if we don’t build economic
and fiscal union. We see Trichet realizing that, but some
political leaders have other views.”  The cost of greater union would fall mainly on the core
economies. Nomura International Plc economists calculate that
reaching a U.S.-level of integration would require Germany to
transfer 3.5 percent of gross domestic product, compared with
the 0.7 percent it contributes to the EU budget that amounts to
about 1 percent of GDP.  Strategists at Brockhouse & Cooper Inc., a Montreal-based
brokerage, say funding Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  will amount
to about 2 percent of the gross domestic product in  France  and
Germany in 2011, roughly the same as their growth rates.  Household Share  Open Europe, a London-based research group,  estimates  each
euro-zone household already underwrites 535 euros ($773) of
Greek debt and a second bailout would almost triple that by 2014.  Trichet made his most  public case  yet on June 2 when he
accepted the Charlemagne prize, awarded annually by the German
city of Aachen to supporters of European integration. Seeking to
turn the crisis into an opportunity to deliver a “union of
tomorrow,” the 68-year old central banker urged politicians to
fix a flaw in the euro architecture he helped build.  While the ECB has delivered the  price stability  required of
monetary union, beating current “difficulties requires a major
strengthening of the rules and organizations that govern fiscal
and economic policies,” said Trichet. He proposed European
institutions wield veto power over the budgets of countries in
crisis and the creation of a regional  finance ministry  that,
while lacking spending powers, would monitor policy making.  The likes of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , 56, fret that
deeper ties mean national capitals will lose influence over
their budgets as they transfer more cash across borders to keep
the euro area together.  ‘Meet in the Middle’  Still, the need to prevent a Greek default has already led
toward greater fiscal solidarity, says  Gary Jenkins , head of
fixed income at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London.  Even more would force yields on the bonds of the so-called
periphery to “meet more in the middle” with  Germany ’s, he said.
“Greek debt would look better and German debt worse.”  Investors demand a premium of about 13 percentage points to
hold 10-year Greek debt over 10-year German notes. The spread
has narrowed from a record 15 percentage points as Europe moved
closer to a second bailout. German borrowing costs are now about
the same as in the U.S., where 10-year yields were higher by an
average of 18 basis points in the first five months of the year.  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management,
says countries may need to start issuing common bonds to attract
investors to Europe and terminate the crisis.  Survival Mode  “If you wanted economic and monetary union, you have got
to start delivering it,” said O’Neill. “This crisis is all
about whether Europe’s policy makers want this thing to
survive.”  Germany now rejects such an idea for fear it would impose
higher borrowing costs on its economy. A solution suggested by
the Brussels-based research group  Bruegel  would have countries
fold their debts up to 60 percent of GDP into a joint “blue”
bond that would likely enjoy relative lower  interest rates  than
governments currently pay. Any excess debt would then be sold on
a national basis as a “red” bond, which by facing a higher
yield would carry an incentive to cutback.  “The benefit for Germany is if it strengthens the system
and makes fiscal policy more disciplined, while smaller
countries get access to a larger market,” said Jean Pisani- Ferry, Bruegel’s director and a former EU adviser. Those with
large debts “suffer a margin cost.”  The euro area’s lack of a U.S.-style mechanism to spray
money around the region to smooth gyrations has been singled out
from the start by critics as its Achilles heel. Billionaire
investor  George Soros  said June 26 that the euro has
“fundamental flaws that need to be corrected.”  Bundesbank’s Wish  Signatories of 1991’s  Maastricht Treaty , which created the
currency bloc, dodged the issue to maintain control over their
individual purse-strings and policies. In doing so, they ignored
the Bundesbank’s call for a “comprehensive political union’”
and instead imposed limits on budgets and debts that have never
been enforced.  What they sought to dodge may nevertheless be happening.
While the rulebook bans bailouts and monetary financing of
member states, the fiscal strains of Greece, Portugal and
Ireland have been soothed with 256 billion euros in aid and 77
billion euros of bond buying by the ECB.  “One of the endgames of this crisis is more fiscal
integration and we may be getting more of it because of this
crisis than we did in the last 20, 30 years,” said Laurent Bilke, head of European interest rate strategy at Nomura in
London and a former ECB economist.  ‘Quantum Leap’  Trichet, a co-writer of the Maastricht treaty who is set to
step down in four months, has chastised governments’ recent
efforts to harden surveillance of economies for lacking the
“quantum leap” that would involve “quasi-automatic” fines
and fewer  voting rights  for transgressors. Governments respond
that they are still tightening their grip by enforcing their
budget rules faster, setting annual targets for debt reduction
and advancing the vetting of national fiscal plans.  Trichet’s 11th-hour campaign underscores how much the ECB
has at stake. The Frankfurt-based  central bank  has about 120
billion euros of exposure to Greece, having bought its bonds and
accepted them as collateral for emergency bank loans, London-
based  Fathom Financial Consulting  estimates. A 70 percent
writedown would cost the ECB about 25 billion euros and its
collateral would take a hit of 20 billion euros, erasing its
entire capital base, it said.  ‘Political Will’  Trichet’s cause may be carried on when Bank of  Italy 
Governor  Mario Draghi  replaces him at the helm of the ECB in
November. Draghi told the European Parliament this month that
the debt crisis poses “a real test for the political will in
Europe to do whatever is needed to ensure the achievements of
economic and monetary integration.”  Merkel, the biggest contributor to the EU’s bailouts and an
advocate of having investors share the cost, says her aim is to
preserve a system in which the taxpayers of prudent nations
aren’t on the hook for the mistakes of the wasteful. For her,
fiscal union spells a weaker not stronger euro.  “The question for me as chancellor isn’t just showing
solidarity,” Merkel said on March 23. “There’s also a question
of where does that solidarity end” and the risk is that
Europe’s strength drifts into “mediocrity.”  A push toward fiscal union and the euro itself could still
founder if the public runs out of patience. The role of
governments is being questioned throughout the continent with
Greeks taking to the streets to oppose the austerity measures
demanded of them and opinion polls showing Germans irritated by
footing the bailout bill.  Popular Opposition  “The people of Europe do not want any form of fiscal union,
so any debate is just theoretical,” said  Eric Chaney , chief
economist for the  Axa SA (CS)  and a former French finance ministry
official. “If it means fiscal transfers the population is very
clear in opposing that.”  Trichet has failed to win some past battles. As well as
governments rebuffing his tougher budget monitoring, they
ignored his idea to replace the ECB as a buyer of bonds and his
reluctance to involve the IMF in supporting Greece.  Notwithstanding these defeats and what he calls Germany’s
aversion to “unlimited liability union,”  Gilles Moec , co-head
of European economic research at Deutsche Bank AG, sees signs of
greater fiscal links already forming as policy makers head off
what would be the first default by a euro member.  At their latest round of crisis talks, authorities this
month vowed to do whatever it takes to prevent a Greek
bankruptcy. To do so, they boosted the size of their rescue fund,
agreed the investment of creditors would be voluntary and said
their future crisis-resolution mechanism would no longer have
priority over investors in any post-default repayment.  “The losses arising from a sovereign default on Greece,
Portugal and Ireland would be shared across all euro-zone’s
taxpayers,” said Moec, a former economist at the Bank of France.
“This is a clear step towards fiscal union.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg.net  