-- 
Aluminum Makers Seek U.S. Action on China to Counter Weak Yuan

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-06-29T20:38:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/aluminum-makers-seek-u-s-action-on-china-to-counter-weak-yuan.html
Aluminum-product makers filed a
lawsuit to force the U.S.  Commerce  Department to levy tariffs on
Chinese imports, countering the effect of a currency the
companies deem to be undervalued.  In a case at the Court of International Trade in  New York ,
the makers of products used in door frames, gutters and solar-
power equipment said earlier rulings by the Commerce Department
to turn down their complaint violates the law.  “Chinese producers and exporters of aluminum extrusions
received countervailable subsidies resulting from currency
undervaluation,” the Aluminum Extrusions Fair Trade Committee
said in its June 24 court filing.  In several decisions, the Commerce Department in the Obama
and Bush administrations rejected requests by U.S. companies for
so-called countervailing duties on imports from  China  to
compensate for the weak currency. A low-priced currency makes
exports of a nation cheaper.  U.S. lawmakers are pushing legislation to require that
Commerce counter imports from China with such tariffs, as
senators such as  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, say the
administration already has the power to counter the low-cost
imports.  Schumer plans to reintroduce legislation aimed at forcing
China to raise the value of its currency, according to a letter
to colleagues. Representative  Nancy Pelosi  of  California , the
Democratic leader, said she is seeking support for a petition to
force a vote on similar legislation in the House. The House
passed a measure in September that never reached the Senate for
a vote. A new Congress took office in January.  China’s yuan appreciated about 5 percent against the dollar
in the past year, while remaining “substantially undervalued,”
William Cline, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in  Washington , said on June 8.  Even without countering the currency, the subsidy rates the
U.S. imposed on aluminum imports from China ranged from 8.02
percent to 374.15 percent.  The case was filed by a group of closely held companies. It
affects as much as $503 million of imports from China last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 