-- 
Amazon Plans to Cut Ties With California Affiliates Over Tax Law

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-06-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/amazon-may-cut-ties-with-california-partners-over-tax-law-1-.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest
Internet retailer, said it will sever ties with its affiliates
in California if the state enacts a new law that requires the
company to collect taxes on online purchases.  California Governor Jerry Brown signed legislation
yesterday mandating sales-tax collections by Web retailers,
including Amazon, on purchases by state residents. The state’s
pending budget plan counts on $200 million from the law. In an
e-mail before the bill was signed, Amazon said the legislation
was “unconstitutional and counterproductive.”  Amazon has been feuding with state governments over sales
taxes, saying that imposing them on its transactions threatens
jobs and leads to little new tax revenue. The Seattle-based
company said it will terminate contracts with all  California 
residents who participate in the Amazon Associates Program as of
the date the law becomes effective. Members of the program put
ads for Amazon on their websites, and then get compensation when
shoppers click through and buy items.  The company didn’t immediately have a comment following
Brown’s signature on the legislation yesterday.  Amazon and California tussled over the tax issue in 2009,
when the state considered a similar measure. Arnold Schwarzenegger, governor at the time, vetoed the bill after
Amazon said it would terminate the affiliate relationships. That
same year, Amazon cut ties with affiliates in Rhode Island,
 North Carolina  and Hawaii over tax disputes. The company also
had a dispute with  Texas  earlier this year over uncollected
sales tax.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 Tgiles5@bloomberg.net  