-- 
Carlos Slim’s America Movil Gets Victory in Quest to Overturn Record Fine

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-06-29T21:05:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/america-movil-gets-victory-in-quest-to-overturn-record-fine.html
America Movil  SAB, the wireless
carrier controlled by  Carlos Slim , said it scored a legal
victory in its bid to overturn a record $1 billion fine as
Mexico’s antitrust chief was recused from voting on an appeal of
the penalty.  Eduardo Perez Motta, president of the Federal Competition
Commission, must refrain from voting because of comments he made
to news media before the fine was assessed, Alfonso Lopez Melih,
a lawyer for America Movil, said yesterday in an e-mail. Perez
Motta cast the deciding vote to approve the fine in April, so
his exclusion could change the outcome of the agency’s vote on
America Movil’s appeal.  America Movil, which controls 70 percent of  Mexico ’s
wireless market, is battling a flurry of legal and regulatory
rulings this year designed to reduce its dominance. The company
is challenging a decision by Mexico’s telecommunications
regulator to slash by more than half the fees the phone carrier
can charge competitors, and it’s appealing a separate antitrust
fine of $7.9 million against its fixed-line phone unit.  An official with the Federal Competition Commission who
can’t be named under the agency’s policy declined to comment.
Lopez Melih has represented America Movil in cases before the
antitrust  agency  and in federal  court . Reforma newspaper
reported the recusal decision yesterday, citing Lopez Melih and
a document from the competition commission.  America Movil rose 30 centavos, or 1.9 percent, to 15.78
pesos at 4 p.m. New York time today in Mexico City trading, the
biggest gain in more than a month. The shares have dropped 7.2
percent since the fine was announced on April 15.  Stiffer Penalties  The recusal is a setback for  Perez Motta , named in 2004 to
a 10-year term by former President Vicente Fox. The antitrust
chief had gained a political victory in May when President
Felipe Calderon signed a bill increasing fines for anti-
competitive practices and allowing for jail terms of as long as
10 years for officials whose companies act as monopolies, powers
Perez Motta, 55, had sought.  The agency  said  in April it assessed the fine because
America Movil increased competitors’ costs by charging them more
than it charges its own users to complete calls to its network.
Such charges are called interconnection fees.  America Movil’s appeal of the decision said Perez Motta
must recuse himself because of comments he made to Bloomberg
Television in 2008 and to Mexican newspapers in March of this
year, according to Reforma.  ‘Reflect Costs’  “Interconnection fees must better reflect costs,” Perez
Motta told Bloomberg Television in the 2008 interview. “That
would stop discrimination against a particular network, fixed or
mobile.”  The five-member antitrust panel voted 2-2 to assess the
fine in April, with Commissioner Agustin Navarro Gergely
recusing himself, citing rules governing conflicts of interest.
As president of the commission, Perez Motta had the power to
break the tie with his vote.  Commissioner Rodrigo Morales Elcoro voted alongside Perez
Motta, while Miguel Flores Bernes and Luis Alberto Ibarra Pardo
voted against the fine.  Slim, 71, was declared the world’s richest man in March for
a second year by Forbes magazine. America Movil represents about
62 percent of his $72.6 billion in publicly disclosed holdings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  