-- 
Manchester United Signs Goalkeeper David De Gea to Replace Van der Sar

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-06-29T10:25:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/manchester-united-signs-goalkeeper-david-de-gea-to-replace-van-der-sar.html
Manchester United  signed David de Gea from  Atletico Madrid  to replace record-breaking goalkeeper
Edwin van der Sar at the Premier League soccer champion.  De Gea, 20, agreed to a five-year contract, United said on
its website, without giving the transfer fee. U.K. media reports
have said he’ll cost about 18 million pounds ($29 million).  “When a club the size of Manchester United comes in for
you, it obviously makes you very, very happy,” De Gea told
United’s television channel in comments posted on the club
 website . “It’s a great privilege to be part of a club like
United and I am keen to do my best and show what I can do.”  De Gea, who played on  Spain ’s European Under-21
Championship winning team this month, is United’s third signing
in 17 days after defender Phil Jones and forward  Ashley Young .
United paid about 16 million pounds each for Jones and Young,
according to U.K. media reports, and De Gea takes the club’s
off-season spending to about 50 million pounds.  United manager  Alex Ferguson  had identified the 6-foot-4
De Gea as a potential successor to Van der Sar, who won four
English league championships, one European Cup and the FIFA Club
World Cup with United before retiring after the May 28 Champions
League final loss to Barcelona.  The 40-year-old Dutchman, who played a record 130 games for
the Netherlands, didn’t allow a goal for 1,311 minutes during
the 2008-09 Premier League season, a European record in a
domestic league.  De Gea, who helped Atletico win  Europe ’s second-tier Europa
League last year, played in all 480 minutes of Spain’s
victorious European Under-21 Championship campaign, allowing a
tournament-low two goals in five matches.  He joins Tomasz Kuszczak, Anders Lindegaard and Ben Amos as
United’s squad goalkeepers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  