-- 
Areva, Iberdrola in Offshore Wind Pact to Vie for French Parks

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-06-29T15:38:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/areva-iberdrola-partner-for-french-offshore-wind-tenders.html
Areva SA, the world’s biggest maker
of nuclear equipment, and  Iberdrola Renovables SA (IBR)  agreed to
jointly develop offshore wind projects in France, where the
government is targeting 6,000 megawatts of capacity by 2020.  The companies will vie for two of the five zones off the
French coast offered in the initial phase of bidding set to open
in July, Anil Srivastava, chief executive officer of Areva
Renewables, said today by phone.  The two sites total 1,250 megawatts: a 500-megawatt
facility and a 750-megawatt park, Srivastava said. The sites are
Saint-Brieuc and Saint-Nazaire, both on the west coast.  Areva, based in Paris, would be the sole supplier of  wind
turbines  used on the projects built by Iberdrola Renovables, the
largest wind energy company. It would supply its 5-megawatt
M5000 model. Srivastava declined to give financial details.  France  is seeking bids for 3,000 megawatts of wind at sea
in the first round of bidding that will be launched next month
as it tries to meet a target of sourcing  23 percent  of its
energy from renewables by 2020. The country currently has no
offshore wind capacity.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy said at a June 27 news
conference in Paris that 12 billion euros ($17 billion) would be
invested in developing offshore wind turbines.  Forging Partnerships  Companies are forging partnerships in preparation for the
wind initiative. Areva already agreed to develop offshore wind
projects with the French energy producer  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA and  Vinci
SA (DG)  while Paris-based  EDF Energies Nouvelles SA (EEN)  and  Alstom SA (ALO) ,
the world’s third-largest power-equipment maker, signed an
agreement on Jan. 19 to develop sea-based wind farms.  Iberdrola Renovables, based in Bilbao, is developing
offshore wind in the U.K. through its ScottishPower Renewables
unit and  this month  started work on the 389-megawatt West of
Duddon Sands plant in the Irish Sea.  “Clearly, working with the likes of Iberdrola in one
particular market reinforces our credibility in all European
markets with similar market conditions, including the U.K.,”
Srivastava said.  Areva, as well as supplying and transporting the turbines,
will commission them offshore and provide a long-term service
agreement, he said. Areva will have more than 120 installed
turbines operating in Europe by the end of 2013.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  