-- 
Australia Audits Are Bungled in 17% of Cases, Regulator ASIC’s Study Finds

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-06-29T14:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/large-accounting-firms-bungled-17-of-australia-audits-regulator-says.html
Four large accounting firms in
Australia didn’t perform proper audits in 17 percent of the
cases reviewed by the country’s regulator, with smaller firms
falling short almost a third of the time.  The firms, which aren’t identified in the report, generally
didn’t include sufficient evidence to back the conclusions
reached, according to the  study , which was carried out between
July 1, 2009 and Dec. 31 and was released yesterday by the
Australian Securities & Investment Commission.  “Investment managers need to give corporate governance
aspects much greater weight in their investment analysis,” said
Prasad Patkar, a  money manager  who helps oversee about $1.7
billion at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney. “Typically,
it’s not at front-and-centre of their thinking, and I’m not sure
some managers even read the audit report.”  ASIC is focusing enforcement on so-called gatekeepers in
Australia’s financial system, according to Chairman Greg Medcraft. Those gatekeepers include auditors and directors of
companies, with the regulator having won a case this week in
which a judge found Centro Properties Group directors were
liable for failing to disclose all of the company’s debt in its
2007 annual report.  “They need to improve,” Medcraft said in an interview
yesterday in Sydney, referring to the accounting firms.
“Auditors have a key role in providing independent assurance on
financial reports,” he said in a statement.  Professional Skepticism  In the 18-month survey, ASIC inspected 21 accounting firms,
with four identified as “larger national.” The regulator
reviewed 131 files, with about half coming from the big firms.  “Our audit inspection program has identified a number of
instances where we have concerns about the auditors’ judgment
and the level and attitude of professional skepticism,” the
study authors wrote.  Instances were found where auditors sought to corroborate,
rather than challenge, the judgment of their clients, according
to the study.  “A culture of professional skepticism needs to be
supported and promoted” by leaders of the accounting firms,
according to the study.  “We will continue to work with the regulator and the
practitioners to ensure the audit opinion is supported by the
audit evidence,”  said  Lee White, the executive general manager
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in  Australia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  