-- 
Loughner Asks Court to Stop Forced Drugging While Shooting Trial on Hold

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-08-31T00:43:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/arizona-shooting-suspect-loughner-can-be-forcibly-medicated-at-prison.html
Attorneys for Jared Lee Loughner,
charged with killing six people and trying to assassinate U.S.
Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , asked a federal appeals court
to overturn a judge’s ruling that their client can be forcibly
medicated.  Loughner “is not a convicted felon,” Reuben Cahn, his
attorney, said at a hearing today before the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in San Francisco. “The state doesn’t have him in long
term custody and he has fair trial rights that are outstanding”
and may be grievously harmed by the involuntary medication, Cahn
said.  U.S. District Judge Larry Burns in  San Diego  denied a
request by Loughner’s lawyer in June to prevent prison doctors
from giving him anti-psychotic drugs against his will. Burns
said prison officials complied with the procedural requirements
for medicating him.  Loughner’s lawyers said doctors at the Medical Center for
Federal Prisoners in Springfield,  Missouri , where their client
is held, had decided to give him psychotropic drugs against his
will because he was found to be a danger to others. The doctors
based their decision on Loughner having thrown a plastic chair
in his cell and having spat on his attorney more than two months
before, the lawyers said in a filing.  Evidence presented by the prison in an administrative
proceeding showed that Loughner was a danger to the prison and
to himself, Christina Cabanillas, a Justice Department attorney,
told a three-judge panel at today’s hearing.  Safety and Stability  The prison’s interest in safety and stability trumps an
inmate’s right to decline medication, whether the action was
taken before or after a trial, Cabanillas said.  Judges on the panel said it was unclear whether they were
supposed to decide if prison rules on forced medication were
unconstitutional or craft guidelines for an administrative
procedure to challenge prison doctor decisions about the
practice. They didn’t say when they would issue a ruling.  Giffords, a Democrat, was among 13 wounded in a Jan. 8
shooting rampage outside a Tucson, Arizona, supermarket where
she was holding a community meeting. Bystanders wrestled the
suspect to the ground. Giffords survived a gunshot wound through
her head. U.S. District Judge John Roll was among those killed.  Loughner, 22, has pleaded not guilty to murder and
attempted murder charges in federal court.  In May, Burns ruled that Loughner, who was diagnosed with
schizophrenia, was incompetent to stand trial and ordered him to
be treated in prison for four months or until doctors determine
he is mentally competent to help in his defense.  The case is U.S. v. Loughner, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  