-- 
Asian Currencies Strengthen on Speculation Borrowing Costs Will Increase

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-06-29T08:13:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/asian-currencies-strengthen-on-speculation-borrowing-costs-will-increase.html
Asian currencies advanced for a
second day, led by  South Korea ’s won and  Malaysia ’s ringgit, on
speculation regional policy makers will boost  interest rates  to
curb price pressures.  Consumer-price inflation in South Korea will be about 4
percent this year, compared with the government’s target of 3
percent, the presidential office said yesterday. Taiwan’s
central bank will lift the benchmark interest rate by 12.5 basis
points to 1.875 percent tomorrow, according to all 18 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Inflation has yet to peak,” said Callum Henderson,
global head of currency research at Standard Chartered Plc in
 Singapore . “It’s still too early to call the end of inflation
cycle just yet. The focus of Asia policy makers is still on
limiting inflation rather than supporting growth for the time
being.”  The won rose 0.6 percent to 1,076.80 per dollar as of the 3
p.m. close in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The ringgit advanced 0.5 percent to 3.0360 and the Taiwan dollar
rose 0.2 percent to NT$28.92.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of stocks gained as Germany’s
biggest banks and insurers meet to explore how creditors can
contribute to a Greek aid package, two people with knowledge of
the matter told Bloomberg. Lawmakers in Greece will vote on a
budget austerity plan today to secure financing.  ‘Good Trade’  “Some optimism about Greece before their vote today
supports sentiment for regional currencies,” said Disawat Tiaowvanich, a foreign-exchange trader at Bangkok Bank Pcl.
“It’s a good trade to sell the dollar ahead.”  The won advanced the most since June 21 as South Korean
Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan sought more price-stabilization
measures at a ministerial meeting in Seoul today. The consumer-
 price index  rose 4.3 percent in June from a year earlier after
having increased 4.1 percent the previous month, according to
the median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey before
official data due on July 1.  “Comments on inflation are adding to speculation that the
central bank may need to raise interest rates in the second
half,” said Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income analyst at Taurus
Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.  Yuan Fixing  The ringgit rose the most in more than a week as demand for
2 billion ringgit ($659 million) of 20-year bonds exceeded the
amount on offer by 2.52 times. Malaysia completed a $2 billion
global Islamic debt offering yesterday.  The yuan rose for a second day as the People’s Bank of
 China  set the reference rate 0.01 percent stronger at 6.4718 per
dollar. The currency gained 0.1 percent to 6.464 per dollar in
 Shanghai .  “I expect the yuan to continue on its appreciation path,”
said Kenix Lai, a foreign-exchange analyst at Sun Hung Kai
Securities Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “I see a turning point in the
 Greece  situation.”  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah gained 0.3 percent to 8,604
against the dollar and Singapore’s dollar appreciated 0.6
percent to S$1.2356. The Philippine peso added 0.2 percent to
43.482 and Thailand’s baht strengthened 0.5 percent to 30.82.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net 
To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  