-- 
Stocks, Oil Gain as Greece Passes Austerity Plan; Dollar Falls

-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-29T21:25:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/asian-stocks-won-advance-before-greece-austerity-vote-euro-halts-rally.html
Stocks rose, sending the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index to its biggest three-day gain since March, and
Treasuries fell after Greece passed austerity measures and banks
rallied as the  Federal Reserve  relaxed restrictions on debit-
card transaction fees. Oil surged, and the dollar dropped.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.8 percent at 4 p.m.
in New York, giving it a 3.1 percent weekly gain. The MSCI All-
Country World Index of shares in 45 nations advanced 1.3
percent. Treasury 10-year notes fell the most over a three-day
stretch since November, with yields rising to 3.12 percent.
Crude jumped 2 percent. The Dollar Index fell 0.6 percent.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  clinched enough
votes to pass the first part of an austerity plan aimed at
meeting European Union aid requirements and staving off default.
Financial, raw-material and energy companies had the biggest
gains among 10 groups in the  S&P 500  as investors bought
equities tied to economic growth.  “You’ve cleared an important hurdle,” said  Russ Koesterich , the San Francisco-based global chief investment
strategist for the IShares unit of BlackRock Inc., which
oversees $3.65 trillion as the world’s largest asset manager.
“It’s one little step for Greece, yet an important step.”  The S&P 500 has fallen 2.8 percent in June, and headed for
the second straight monthly loss, amid concern about the
European debt crisis and weaker-than-expected economic data. The
index is still up 4 percent in 2011 on government stimulus
measures and better-than-estimated profits.  Extending Gains  Today, financial stocks in the S&P 500 trimmed gains in the
early afternoon, only to surge after the Fed’s decision on fees.
 Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the world’s biggest consumer-
payment networks, surged 15 percent and 11 percent,
respectively. Those were the biggest gains since 2008 and 2009.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. bank, climbed 3
percent after agreeing to pay $8.5 billion to resolve claims
made by bondholders including BlackRock Inc. over soured
mortgages.  Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest seed company, rose
5 percent after raising its annual profit forecast and posting
third-quarter earnings that topped analysts’ estimates on higher
sales of Roundup weed killer and genetically modified seeds.  Treasury 10-year notes fell the most over a three-day
stretch since November after a third government note auction
this week drew poor demand and Greek passage of the austerity
bill reduced the risk of default.  Fed Program Ends  Yields on seven-year notes rose to the highest level this
month, 0.50 percent, after the $29 billion sale of the
securities drew the lowest participation in more than two years
from a class of investors including foreign central banks.
Yields on two-year notes touched 0.50 percent a day before the
Fed’s $600 billion bond-purchase program concludes.  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities jumped 2.1 percent,
with energy-related materials accounting for four of the index’s
five biggest gains.  Crude oil rose in the biggest two-day rally in seven weeks
in  New York , after the U.S. government reported that supplies
dropped almost three times as much as expected. Oil has gained
4.1 percent since June 23, when it dropped 4.6 percent after the
 International Energy Agency  announced the release of 60 million
barrels from strategic reserves.  The dollar declined against 15 of 16 major counterparts,
with the euro rising 0.5 percent to $1.4435 for its third
straight advance.  Government bonds  issued by Greece gained. The yield on the
two-year note tumbled 123 basis points to 27.31 percent, with
the 10-year yield sliding 17 basis points to 16.29 percent.  More Funds  After gaining 155 votes in the 300-seat Greek Parliament,
Papandreou is on track to secure a bill setting out the strategy
for a 78 billion euro ($112 billion) package of budget cuts and
asset sales that is the condition for further rescue funds.
Attention now shifts to a vote tomorrow for authorization to
implement the plan.  Greece  “doesn’t just face an illiquidity problem, but an
eventual insolvency problem,” Mickey Levy, chief economist at
Bank of America in New York, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today. “What this vote does is it buys them time, but  The extra yield investors demand to hold Greek 10-year
bonds instead of bonds fell 22 basis points to 1,330 basis
points, or 13.30 percentage points. The Spanish 10-year note
yield declined six basis points, with the equivalent-maturity
Portuguese yield tumbling 41 basis points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Baker in New York at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  