-- 
Massey Faked Reports Ahead of 2010 Fatal Mine Blast, U.S. Says

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-06-29T17:39:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/massey-faked-reports-ahead-of-2010-fatal-mine-blast-u-s-says.html
Massey Energy Co. (MEE)  managers pressured
coal miners to fabricate safety reports to mislead inspectors
before the 2010 West Virginia mine explosion that killed 29
people, federal investigators said.  Kevin Stricklin, the assistant administrator of coal at the
 U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration , said his agency’s
investigation of the April 2010 blast found duplicate books on
daily mine operations. On several occasions in the months before
the blast, the books didn’t match, he said. One set told
inspectors there were no serious issues while internal reports
revealed many hazards, he said.  “Managers were aware that chronic hazardous conditions
were not recorded,” Stricklin said at a briefing for families
of victims who died in the explosion, which was the worst U.S.
mining disaster in 40 years. “Management pressured examiners to
not record hazards in the books.”  Massey agreed in January to be acquired by  Alpha Natural
Resources Inc. (ANR)  for $7.1 billion.  Ted Pile , an Alpha spokesman,
said the company would look at the agency’s conclusion as part
of a separate probe of the fatal blast.  “We heard this information for the first time from MSHA at
the same time everyone else did,” Pile said in an e-mail.  Stricklin said Massey managers had to countersign books at
the Upper Big Branch mine and knew that the hazards, from low
air flow to high levels of explosive gas, went unreported.  A West Virginia investigator said in a report last month
that Massey is to blame for the fatal explosion at the mine. An
investigation by Massey concluded that the explosion was beyond
its control, and was a naturally occurring event caused by an
inundation of natural gas.  MSHA plans to complete its own investigation this fall.  “This explosion could and should have been prevented by
the mine operator,” Stricklin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  