-- 
Mauritius State Trading Corp. Plans to Invest $200 Million in Oil Terminal

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-06-29T07:35:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/mauritius-state-trading-corp-plans-to-invest-200-million-in-oil-terminal.html
Mauritius’s  State Trading Corp. 
plans to invest more than $200 million in a new  oil terminal  to
build the country’s reserves and service both the region and
maritime traffic, Chief Executive Officer Megh Pillay said.  “Our current reserve for gasoline, for example, is merely
one week’s demand between two shipments,” Pillay said by phone
yesterday. “The government does not want to see a piecemeal
approach to such investments.”  The Indian Ocean island nation, with a population of 1.3
million people, will need 1.23 million metric tons of petroleum
products, including 270,000 tons of jet fuel and 460,000 tons of
fuel oils in the year through July. It consumes an average of
65,000 tons of liquefied petroleum gas annually, the STC, which
also imports cement and rice, said on its  website .  The initial phase of the project, approved by the
government, will require investment of about $45 million, Pillay
said. Two hectares of land (four acres) have been secured for
the terminal near the harbor in the capital,  Port Louis , close
to the new oil jetty.  “Mauritius remains the major consumer and buyer of fossil
fuels and LPG in the region,” Pillay said. “It thus can
influences final price by achieving economies of scale in
freight, which represents a major cost component.”  The Port Louis-based STC issued an international tender on
June 27 for expressions of interest by companies to advise on a
plan to address “basic strategic and operational requirements
and take advantage of trade opportunities,” Pillay said. The
open bidding process will close on July 25.  The STC has a three-year agreement with  India ’s Mangalore
Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. for its fuel requirements,
expiring in July 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.netundefinedundefined  