-- 
Lawmakers Chafe at Secrecy Surrounding Deficit-Reduction Talks

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-06-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/lawmakers-chafe-at-secrecy-surrounding-deficit-reduction-talks.html
The most important measure Congress
will likely consider this year is also the most secretive.  A succession of groups -- the Senate’s “Gang of Six,” a
cadre helmed by Vice President  Joe Biden  and now one led by
President  Barack Obama  -- has spent months behind closed doors
negotiating ways to cut trillions from the federal budget.  Yet those involved in the talks have provided few details
of what is being considered. And any plan they agree on and push
for enactment is unlikely to be subject to a single
congressional hearing, prolonged House and Senate debate or
other legislative steps outlined in civics textbooks.  Some lawmakers gripe that legislation presumably shrinking
hundreds of government programs is being written in secret, with
little public scrutiny. They complain that they learn about
various proposals -- and how they might affect their
constituents -- only from news reports. They caution that they
won’t rubber-stamp whatever negotiators produce.  “I don’t like it at all,” said Senator  Ron Johnson , a
Wisconsin Republican who sits on the Budget Committee. “Most
members of Congress have no input in terms of what’s going to
happen here. We’re going to be presented with a deal, take it or
leave it. That’s not the way the process ought to work.”  Obama has begun private meetings with House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican; Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ,
a Nevada Democrat; and Reid’s Republican counterpart, Senator
 Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , with the aim of crafting a deficit-
reduction bill ahead of an Aug. 2 deadline to raise the U.S.
debt limit.  Republican Prerequisite  Republicans have made deep spending cuts a prerequisite for
backing a debt-ceiling increase, which the Treasury Department
says is needed to avoid a government default. The talks convened
by Obama come after the Biden-led discussions with six
lieutenants to the top Senate and House leaders deadlocked over
Republican insistence that tax increases not be part of any
accord.  It’s not uncommon for major budget deals to be crafted in
secrecy, as doing so allows negotiators to consider compromises
that may be anathema to their supporters.  The current talks, though, run counter to promises from
both sides to bring new transparency to government. Obama, on
his first full day in office in January 2009, issued a memo
promising “an unprecedented level of openness in government.”
 House Republicans  last year demanded Democrats broadcast final
negotiations on a health-care overhaul bill on television, then
promised during the 2010 campaign to “fight to ensure
transparency and accountability in Congress.”  ‘More Candid’  Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat who was part of the Gang of Six, said secrecy
is necessary for lawmakers to honestly debate options.  “I’ve found if people can have some security about what
they’re about to say is not going to be in the newspaper,
they’re more candid,” he said. Privacy also helps ideas from
being “killed in the crib” by special interest groups, said
Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota
Democrat who also was a Gang of Six member.  Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican, said he is
comfortable with leaving the current bargaining up to Boehner.
“He knows this is probably the defining negotiation of this
Congress,” he said. “You either trust your negotiators or you
don’t -- and I trust our negotiators.”  ‘Much Longer Process’  As for his party’s 2010 demands that Democrats televise
their health-care negotiations, Cole said: “That was changing
the health-care system for everyone; this is essentially a step
in a much longer process in how you negotiate your way through
deficit reduction.”  Asked about Obama’s transparency pledge, White House budget
office spokesman  Kenneth Baer  said in an e-mail: “Any policy
changes that are a result of this negotiation will need to be
approved by Congress.”  That isn’t much consolation to Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa
Democrat. He is one of many lawmakers who hold leadership posts
in Congress and expect a role in shaping policy.  “I just happen to be the chairman of the Health,
Education, Labor, Pensions Committee,” he noted last week, as
well as head of the Appropriations subcommittee that funds
programs in these areas. “But no, they haven’t asked me” for
input, he said of the Biden group.  “My big fear is that the White House basically gives in,
and they’re going to have a lot of cuts to programs that affect
the poorest people in this country,” Harkin said. He wants a
chance to make “corrections” to any agreement, saying
otherwise he will feel free to oppose it.  Congressional Approval  Senator  Jeff Sessions  of  Alabama , the top Republican on the
Budget Committee, expressed similar sentiments.  “Who’s to say if they come up with something that the
Congress will accept it?” he said.  “Do they expect it to be
rubber-stamped? I don’t think that’s likely.”  Congressional leaders have often been able to impose plans
on their rank-and-file colleagues under the threat of a looming
deadline -- though not always.  In 1990, Republican President  George H.W. Bush  and
congressional Democrats watched the House kill a bipartisan
 deficit-reduction  plan they had hammered out in private. The
defeat came even as Bush warned that failure to act would invite
“economic chaos.”  In 2008, the House initially balked at the take-it-or-
leave-it bill to create a $700 billion  Wall Street  bailout,
sparking panic in financial markets. The measure was later
passed, though only after a 700-point drop on Wall Street.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at  
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  