-- 
Summers Joins Andreessen Horowitz as a Part-Time Adviser to Entrepreneurs

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-06-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/lawrence-summers-joins-andreessen-horowitz-as-an-adviser-to-venture-firm.html
Former U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Lawrence Summers  is joining venture firm Andreessen Horowitz as
a special adviser, to help entrepreneurs who are aiming to build
their international operations.  Summers, a professor at  Harvard University , will be working
on a part-time basis with Andreessen Horowitz, the  Menlo Park ,
California-based firm said yesterday in a statement. Financial
terms of the arrangement weren’t disclosed.  Andreessen Horowitz was founded in 2009 by former Netscape
Communications Corp. executives Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz. The firm has since raised $1.2 billion from investors
and bought stakes in companies including Groupon Inc., Facebook
Inc., Foursquare Labs Inc. and Zynga Inc. Summers’s experience
in global economics and politics will help portfolio companies
navigate through other countries, the firm said.  “All of our companies want to operate globally and expand
into global markets,” Andreessen said in an interview. “He
will be hands-on with a bunch of these companies through their
evolution in these markets.”  Summers, 56, will be staying at  Harvard  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , and will periodically visit Andreessen Horowitz’s
office. Over time, he will probably become a board member at
some portfolio companies, Andreessen said.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is an
investor in Andreessen Horowitz.  Obama Adviser  Summers worked for the Treasury Department from 1993 to
2001, including a two-year stint as secretary. He served as head
of the National Economic Council under President  Barack Obama 
through 2010. He was president of Harvard from 2001 to 2006 and
returned there as a professor this year.  While  venture capital  is a new endeavor for Summers, he
previously worked in the hedge fund industry for D.E. Shaw & Co.
Summers served as a managing director at the New York-based firm
and was paid more than $5 million in salary and other
compensation over a 16-month period, according to a financial
disclosure form released by the White House in 2009.  During that period, the middle of the financial crisis, D.E.
Shaw’s assets declined, falling by almost half between 2008 and
2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  