-- 
German Stocks Climb After Greek Vote; Allianz, Salzgitter, Daimler Advance

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-06-29T13:56:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/axel-springer-commerzbank-hochtief-volkswagen-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks rallied, gaining for a
second day, as Greek lawmakers passed the five-year austerity
plan that the European Union made a condition for its next
tranche of aid to the Mediterranean country.  Salzgitter AG advanced 1.6 percent after the EU imposed
tariffs on Chinese pipes.  Allianz SE (ALV)  increased 3 percent after
Morgan Stanley recommended buying the shares.  Daimler AG (DAI)  climbed
1.1 percent as the maker of Mercedes trucks and luxury cars
announced a new investment in  China .  The  DAX Index (DAX)  rose 87.92, or 1.2 percent, to 7,258.35 at
3:55 p.m. in Frankfurt as 14 shares rose for every one that
fell. The gauge has still fallen 3.6 percent from this year’s
high on May 2 amid speculation Greece will fail to repay all its
debt. The broader HDAX Index gained 1.3 percent today.  “A yes vote will provide calm and lead markets to focus on
the business cycle and how good companies are at making money
again,” Frank Velling, chief strategist at BankInvest, which
manages $17 billion in Copenhagen, said in a note to clients.  In  Athens , Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou won the
support of a majority of lawmakers for a five-year, 78 billion-
euro ($112 billion) package of budget cuts and asset sales. The
EU and the  International Monetary Fund  had made the Greek
parliament’s approval of the law a condition for the next
tranche of aid to the indebted country.  Greece’s parliament needs to pass a second law tomorrow to
authorize the technical introduction of the spending cuts. Euro
area finance ministers meet on July 3 to decide whether to
release the fifth aid payment from last year’s bailout.  Steel Tariffs  Salzgitter,  Europe ’s biggest steel pipe maker, rose 1.6
percent to 50.23 euros after the EU imposed tariffs as high as
71.5 percent on pipes from China. ThyssenKrupp AG, Germany’s
largest steelmaker, increased 2.8 percent to 35.05 euros.  Allianz, Europe’s biggest insurer, jumped 3 percent to
94.85 euros as the stock was upgraded to “overweight” from
“equal weight” at Morgan Stanley.  Daimler climbed 1.1 percent to 50.95 euros as the luxury
carmaker signed an agreement with its Chinese partner Beijing
Automotive Industry Corp. to invest about 2 billion euros in
their joint venture in the country. The deal covers the
production of several models of compact cars and the
construction of a plant to make engines for passenger vehicles.  Commerzbank, Deutsche Bank  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  rallied 2.8 percent to 2.96 euros, climbing
for a second day. a second day. Handelsblatt reported the bank’s
executive responsible for lending to small and medium-sized
businesses had forecast an increase in loans to renewable-energy
companies to about 5.5 billion euros by the end of this year.  BASF AG, the world’s biggest chemical company, rose 1.8
percent to 65.88 euros as  Fitch Ratings  revised the outlook on
the company to stable from negative.  Specialty chemicals maker  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH)  advanced 2.8
percent to 148.80 euros after UBS AG raised its rating on the
shares to “buy” from “neutral.” K+S AG jumped 2.1 percent to
53.34 euros after UBS said it preferred fertilizer producers to
other chemicals companies.  Adidas AG (ADS)  surged 1.9 percent to 54.79 euros, its second
straight day of gains. The sporting-goods maker rallied 3.9
percent yesterday after rival Nike Inc. reported earnings that
topped estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  