-- 
Bank of America Said to Eliminate 60 Jobs in Equity Sales, Trading Units

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-06-29T22:13:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/bank-of-america-said-to-eliminate-60-jobs-in-equity-sales-trading-units.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
U.S. bank, cut about 60 positions in its equity sales and
trading division this month to help bring expenses in line with
revenue, said two people with knowledge of the decision.  The lender based in Charlotte,  North Carolina , sought to
trim its least-productive employees around the world, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the move wasn’t
public. The equities division employs about 2,500 people
globally, one of the people said.  Bank of America follows Barclays Capital, the investment-
banking unit of  Barclays Plc (BARC) , in eliminating equity sales,
trading and research jobs as Wall Street firms grapple with
reduced revenue from buying and selling securities. Fixed-income
trading revenue at U.S. banks probably fell 30 percent in the
second quarter from the prior three months, while equities
trading fell 15 percent, Citigroup Inc. analyst  Keith Horowitz 
estimated in a report last week.  While sales and trading results declined from a
“seasonally strong” first quarter, they improved from a year
earlier, Chief Financial Officer Bruce Thompson said today in a
conference call. Jessica Oppenheim, a Bank of America
spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Bank of America is looking to trim costs in other
businesses, including the home-loan unit, Chief Executive
Officer Brian T. Moynihan said this month. The firm will cut
staff in its mortgage-sales unit in the next few months because
volume is declining, he said.  Bank of America said today that it expects to report a
second-quarter loss of about $8.6 billion to $9.1 billion fueled
by an $8.5 billion settlement to resolve bondholder claims over
soured mortgages. The firm also plans to record $6.4 billion in
charges including legal costs and a writedown of mortgage-unit
goodwill and will add $5.5 billion to a liability reserve for
future loan-repurchase demands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at   hson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 