-- 
BNY Mellon Seeks Approval of $8.5 Billion BofA Settlement

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-06-29T16:26:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/bank-of-new-york-mellon-files-petition-for-8-5-billion-accord.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  filed
a court petition seeking approval of an $8.5 billion settlement
with  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  over residential mortgage-
securitization trusts.  BNY Mellon made the filing today in  New York  State Supreme
Court in  Manhattan  as trustee of 530 residential mortgage-
securitization trusts established from 2004 to 2008. Investors
claimed that Countrywide Home Loans Inc. and other sellers
breached agreements.  The agreement requires Bank of America, the parent of
Countrywide, or Countrywide, or both, to pay $8.5 billion into
the trusts, with amounts based on past and expected future
losses associated with the loans in each.  “This settlement resolves a significant portion of the
Countrywide private label securitization exposure and it allows
us to put this matter behind us and focus on running our
business,” Jerome Dubrowski, a spokesman for Bank of America,
said in an interview.  Justice Barbara R. Kapnick of New York State Supreme Court
in Manhattan today set a hearing on the settlement for Nov. 17.  Bank of New York Mellon is to give notice of the accord to
investors in the mortgage-backed securities, mortgage companies
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , ratings companies, bond insurers
including Ambac Assurance Corp. and MBIA Insurance Corp., and
underwriters including Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  Securities Documents  While individual agreements govern each securitization, all
contain representations that the  mortgage loans  conform to
underwriting guidelines and conform to their descriptions in
investor disclosure documents, the petition says. The loan
documents also include servicing obligations, it says.  “A substantial dispute has arisen concerning the sellers’
alleged breaches of representations and warranties in the
governing agreements, and the master servicer’s alleged
violations of prudent servicing obligations,” the petition
says.  Institutional investors, whose current holdings are in the
tens of billions of dollars, according to the filing, include
Blackrock Financial Management Inc., Pacific Investment
Management Company LLC, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.,
Goldman Sachs Asset Management LP, Trust Co. of the West, and
Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America.  The accord requires the master servicer, BAC Home Loans
Servicing LP, formerly known as Countrywide Home Loans Servicing
LP, to implement servicing improvements, according to the court
papers. The improvements will provide a mechanism for BAC HLS to
transfer high-risk loans to subservicers for more individual
attention, the papers say.  The case is In the matter of the application of The Bank of
New York Mellon, 651786/2011, New York state  Supreme Court , New
York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 