-- 
Barclays Chairman Attacks Regulators’ ‘Profoundly Negative’ Capital Rules

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-06-29T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/barclays-s-agius-says-bank-capital-rises-profoundly-negative-.html
Forcing U.K. banks to hold ever more
capital could have “profoundly negative consequences” by
making them unattractive to investors,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chairman
Marcus Agius said.  “Some regulators seem to believe that ever more capital is
the solution to every regulatory problem,” Agius, chairman of
the British Bankers’ Association, told the lobby group’s annual
 conference  in London today. “Carried too far, this thinking
would have profoundly negative consequences.”  Regulators worldwide agreed last weekend to make as many as
30 of the world’s largest, or systemically important, banks hold
as much as 2.5 percentage points more capital than the 7 percent
core Tier 1 capital required by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision rules. U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said June 15 that national regulators should be able to
impose additional  capital requirements  to the Basel rules.  Barclays may be among the banks that face the surcharge,
analysts including Morgan Stanley’s Huw van Steenis this month
said.  “At the extreme, banks would become over-capitalized and
therefore unable to earn a sufficient rate of return on that
capital,” Agius said. “This would make them unattractive
investments for private shareholders. This, of course, would be
self defeating.”  The 48-member Bloomberg 500 Banks Index rose 1.7 percent to
99.98 by the close in London, paring its decline for the year to
6.9 percent. Barclays gained 3 percent to 229.3 pence.  ‘Depressed Share Prices’  “The current depressed share prices of western banks
reflect the nervousness and uncertainty of investors as to where
the final decisions in this extended round of regulatory reform
will end up,” Agius said. “Talk of bank investors being
prepared to accept utility-type returns is completely
unrealistic.”  Banks should start increasing the amount of capital they
hold now, rather than wait until 2019,  Bank of England  Governor
 Mervyn King  said on June 24.  “You can do better than just rigidly following that
transition path, irrespective of circumstances,” King said.
Banks should “put money in when times are good, in order that
they will be able to run the buffer down when times are not so
good,” he said.  Barclays’s Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  in
February cut the lender’s return-on-equity target to 13 percent
in February from an average of 18 percent over the past three
decades, as higher capital requirements from regulators erode
profitability.  “Banks must be able to generate a sufficient return on
equity,” Agius said in an interview on the sidelines of the
conference. “They’ve got to be attractive to investors and you
can over-regulate and create a situation where that’s not the
case and that’s in no-one’s interest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  