-- 
Basel Rules Allow CoCo Bonds as Capital, Prefer Alternatives, Ingves Says

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-06-29T07:13:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/basel-rules-allow-coco-bonds-as-capital-prefer-alternatives-ingves-says.html
Contingent convertible bonds will
remain an option for boosting capital at the world’s biggest
banks even after the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  this
month said it favored retained earnings and ordinary shares.  “That doesn’t mean that CoCos are off the agenda,” Stefan Ingves, the governor of Sweden’s central bank and newly
appointed head of the Basel committee, said in an interview in
Stockholm yesterday. “There remains more work to be done on the
CoCo-side; one way or other CoCos will stay on the agenda but it
will be sort of an evolutionary process.”  This weekend’s decision to require too-big-to-fail banks to
meet extra capital demands as high as 2.5 percentage points
without resorting to CoCos was a victory for U.S. regulators
over their European counterparts. National regulators will still
have the freedom to allow lenders to use the securities for
meeting higher local capital standards, Basel said.  “When it comes to dealing with issues in banks, it remains
a very interesting instrument but there is a lot of technical
work that remains to be done,” Ingves said.  The securities, which convert into equity at a given
trigger, have been criticized by  Oswald Gruebel , chief executive
officer of  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, UBS AG, for diluting
regular shareholders’ investments.  Other market participants also remain skeptical.  Bill Blain , co-head of strategy at broker Newedge Group in  London 
said this month “supporters of contingent capital should be
watching in open-mouthed horror” after Bank of Ireland Plc’s
May 31 debt-for-equity swap resulted in a 28 percent share-price
slump. The example shows how quickly equity value can be
destroyed when bank bonds are converted, Blain wrote in a June 7
note.  Stricter Rules  Ingves, who in Sweden has argued in favor of imposing
regulatory requirements on banks that are stricter than those
set by Basel, will take over from European Central Bank
Governing Council member Nout Wellink on July 1. The Riksbank
governor, who was a key architect behind the resurrection of
 Sweden ’s banks after the 1990s meltdown, has said stricter rules
protect taxpayers and prevent banks from taking on risk they
can’t afford.  Ingves signaled this stance is likely to shape his approach
to heading the Basel committee. Banks that ultimately call on
their governments to support them in times of financial stress
should accept restrictions on their business set by the state,
he said.  Public Sector Sway  “As long as the public sector backs up banking systems in
one way or the other it’s the responsibility of the public
sector to decide on how far banks can go and the banks
themselves they have to live with that,” Ingves said.  Still, it remains “too early to tell” whether a bail-in
construction, which would force bondholders to share losses in
state-engineered resolutions, should be enforced, he said.  The decision to keep CoCos out of required buffers was part
of the Basel Committee’s overhaul of rules on how much capital
the world’s largest banks should hold so they don’t collapse
during a financial crisis. The proposals will be reviewed by the
Financial Stability Board and then be issued for public comment,
the Basel group said. The FSB, which brings together finance
ministry officials, central bank governors and regulators from
the Group of 20 countries, is leading efforts to rein in
systemically important banks.  The Basel committee didn’t identify which banks will be
subject to the capital charges. About 28 to 30 banks, including
as many as eight in the U.S., may face the surcharge, according
to a person familiar with the situation, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  