-- 
Betfair Adds More Fixed-Odds Products to Include In-Game Bets

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-06-29T08:34:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/betfair-adds-more-fixed-odds-products-to-include-in-game-bets.html
Betfair Group Plc (BET) , which operates a
U.K. online person-to-person betting exchange, said it will add
more fixed-odds betting products to keep customers from moving
to traditional bookmakers.  The company is looking to add more wagers where it acts as
bookmaker, to increase the number of in-game or multiple-bet
wagers. Betfair’s full-year profit rose 60 percent as it added
new customers, the London-based company said in a statement.  Betfair said 92 percent of its sports revenue was generated
through its betting exchange, where customers set the odds for
each other. On average, Betfair grabs about a 72 percent share
of its customers’ gambling money, said Chief Executive Officer
David Yu in a conference call with reporters.  “We know they are spending money elsewhere,” he said.
“Some customers have multiple accounts, and we want them to
spend more with us.”  Betfair rose 5 pence, or 0.7 percent, to 776.5 pence at
9:13 a.m. after earlier gaining as much as 3.7 percent in London
trading. Its shares have dropped 19 percent so far this year,
giving it a market value of 830 million pounds ($1.3 billion).  Net income was 24.2 million pounds, or 22 pence per share
in the year ended April 30, compared with 15.1 million pounds,
or 13.8 pence per share in the same period a year earlier, the
company said.  Fixed-odds betting sales are below forecast in the first
eight weeks of the new year, while betting-exchange sports,
poker and games trading are “in line,” the company said.  ‘Challenging’  “While we do not have an operational issue with Betfair
behaving as bookmaker, we do see it challenging its sector
premium and ‘killer ap’ status,” wrote Paul Leyland, an analyst
with Investec Securities, in a note to investors. He has a
“sell” recommendation on Betfair.  The company carries a price-earnings ratio of 34, while
traditional bookmaker William Hill Plc’s is 12, according to
Bloomberg data.  Customer numbers grew by 15 percent over the year, as new
players were attracted by last summer’s  World Cup  soccer
championship. Soccer sales grew 24 percent, the company said.  Betfair said it plans to purchase as much as 50 million
pounds in shares over the next 12 months. The company also
declared its first final dividend, of 5.9 pence per share.  Yu said June 27 that he will leave the company when his
contract expires in October 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  