-- 
Bid to Block Debit Card Swipe Cap Denied by Appeals Court

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-06-29T21:38:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/bid-to-block-debit-card-swipe-fee-cap-turned-aside-by-u-s-appeals-court.html
TCF Financial Corp. (TCB)  failed to
persuade a U.S. appeals court to block a federal regulation
capping the fees the biggest U.S. banks can get from retailers
for processing debit-card transactions.  The St. Louis-based U.S. Court of Appeals today, in a
unanimous nine-page ruling, upheld an April decision by U.S.
District Judge Lawrence L. Piersol that the lender hadn’t shown
it was likely to prevail on its claims the cap is
unconstitutional.  The swipe-fee cap, to be set by the  Federal Reserve ,
applies to all U.S. banks with at least $10 billion in assets.
The measure, sponsored by U.S. Senator Richard Durbin, an
Illinois Democrat, was as an addition to last year’s Dodd-Frank
financial overhaul legislation.  “No legal prohibition exists against TCF fully recouping
the costs of its debit-card services by assessing customer
fees,” the three-judge appeals court panel said today.  Swipe, or  interchange , fees are set by  Visa Inc. (V)  and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the biggest electronic-payment networks, which
collect the money and remit it to card-issuing member banks.  In a June 21 letter to Piersol, attorneys for the
government told the court that the Federal Reserve, at a meeting
today, would “consider and vote” on the final regulation.  Rate Set  The board today set the top rate for the largest banks at
21 cents. Retailers previously had been paying an average of 44
cents per transaction. The rate will take effect Oct. 1.  TCF National Bank, a Sioux Falls, South Dakota-based unit
of TCF Financial, filed the lawsuit last year, naming as lead
defendant U.S. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and including Vice
Chairman Janet Yellen, four Fed governors and Acting Comptroller
of the Currency John Walsh.  “We’re disappointed in that ruling, but that doesn’t stop
our lawsuit” over the constitutionality of the amendment, Jason Korstange, a TCF Financial spokesman, said in a telephone
interview. “We will continue that as planned in  South Dakota .”  TCF Financial rose 72 cents to $14.34 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  “We are pleased with today’s ruling,”  Charles Miller , a
spokesman for the U.S. Justice Department, said in an e-mail.  The lower-court case is TCF National Bank v. Bernanke, 10-
cv-04149, U.S. District Court, District of South Dakota ( Sioux
Falls ). The appeal is TCF National Bank v. Bernanke, 11-1805,
8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  