-- 
Billionaires Team Up to Support Carrefour in Brazil Battle Versus Casino

-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-06-29T20:26:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/billionaires-team-up-to-help-carrefour-fend-off-rival-in-brazilian-deal.html
An alliance between two Brazilian
billionaires and their nation’s government may help  Carrefour SA (CA) 
fend off competition from  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO)  in the
world’s second-biggest emerging market.  Andre Esteves , the 42-year-old chief executive officer of
Banco BTG Pactual SA, and Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo
Pao de Acucar Chairman Abilio Diniz, 74, are proposing to merge
Carrefour’s Brazil assets with the local retailer. The deal,
backed by an injection of as much as 2 billion euros ($2.9
billion) from a Brazilian  state bank , may prevail over a 2005
accord that would give Casino control of Pao de Acucar in 2012.  The deal allows Esteves’s BTG to increase its bet on a
market where retail sales expand 10 percent a year. For Diniz,
it’s a way to avoid relinquishing control of the company his
father founded in 1948. The Brazilian government achieves a goal
of creating national companies big enough to expand overseas.  “It’s an emblematic deal for Brazilian retail,”  Daniela Bretthauer , head of consumer research for  Latin America  at
 Raymond James , said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.
“It’s a unique chance to create a dominant player in the local
market, with a market share around 35 percent.”  Pao de Acucar rose as much as 12 percent in Sao Paulo
trading and reversed earlier gains to close 3.1 percent lower at
71.00 reais. Carrefour advanced 2.4 percent to 28.11 euros in
Paris after climbing 3.7 percent yesterday. Casino gained 3.9
percent to 64.60 euros, paring yesterday’s 5.6 percent decline.  ‘Illegal’ Transaction  Casino described the proposal as “hostile” and said the
deal is a “long-standing illegal planned financial
transaction,” according to an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Under the merger proposal, Esteves’s BTG is creating a new
company, Gama, which would buy all Pao de Acucar shares and
Carrefour’s Brazilian assets. Gama would become the biggest
shareholder in Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based Carrefour with
an 11.7 percent stake, and would initially get two seats on
Carrefour’s board, according to a statement.  The combination would have 2011 revenue of more than 30
billion euros and generate 700 million euros in savings
annually, Gama said.  Brazil ’s state development bank would have
an 18 percent stake in the merged business while BTG would hold
3.2 percent, said Percio de Souza, a partner at Estater Gestao e
Financas, which advised Pao de Acucar on the deal, at a press
conference yesterday.  Emerging Middle Class  Much is at stake for Casino and Carrefour as they look to
offset falling earnings at home by expanding into emerging
markets. Casino, based in Saint-Etienne,  France , gets a quarter
of sales from Latin America. Brazil is the second-largest
contributor to sales for Carrefour after France.  Brazil’s $1.6 trillion economy is the world’s No. 2 among
developing nations after  China , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Developing nations will account for 93 percent of the
global “middle class” by 2030, up from 56 percent in 2000,
according to Citigroup Inc.  The proposal had been the object of “informal
discussions” between Diniz, BTG partners and executives at
Carrefour and Casino, as well as Blue Capital, a Carrefour
shareholder, for the past two years, Souza said. Formal talks
with BTG started about a month ago, according to Carlos Fonseca,
head of BTG’s private-equity division.  Brazil’s state development bank BNDES, which lent $105.8
billion in the 12 months through April, said it’s backing Pao de
Acucar’s “internationalization project.” If approved, the
transaction will pave the way for greater penetration of
Brazilian products in international markets, BNDES said.  National Champions  “This just confirms a trend that has been going on the
last few years, of BNDES encouraging national champions to
become more daring and to expand internationally,” said
Marcello Hallake, a lawyer focused on Latin American mergers and
acquisitions at Thompson & Knight LLP in New York.  With the BNDES financing of 85 percent of the deal,
antitrust approval is likely, Bretthauer from Raymond James
said. While Casino “has the right to be a little upset” for
being left aside in the negotiations, the French retailer will
also benefit from the deal, she said.  It’s the first time BNDES and BTG have worked together on a
deal, though the investment bank had joined forces with the
government before on another consumer sector bet. BTG on Jan. 31
acquired a controlling stake in  Banco Panamericano SA (BPNM4) , Brazil’s
biggest lender for used cars, and entered into a partnership
with Caixa Economica Federal, the state-controlled bank.  ‘Good Opportunity’  Esteves said Panamericano opened a new line of business at
BTG, which used to be a pure investment bank. The acquisition
was part of a strategy to bet on companies that serve Brazil’s
growing middle class, and a chance to become a partner of the
financing agent for 80 percent of Brazil’s national housing
system, he said on Feb. 21.  The fates of BTG and Pao de Acucar intersected in August
last year, when the bank hired Claudio Galeazzi, who was the
retailer’s CEO from December 2007 until March 2010. Galeazzi
joined BTG’s private-equity division to help define strategies
for the bank’s consumer ventures.  “We had been following the news involving Pao de Acucar
and Carrefour and saw a good business opportunity in the
combination of these two companies, considering our own
experience, the knowledge Galeazzi has of the retail sector and
our internal analyses,” Fonseca from BTG said at a press
conference yesterday in  Sao Paulo .  Bakery Beginnings  Pao de Acucar was started as a bakery in 1948 by Diniz’s
father Valentim, a Portuguese immigrant. Diniz, the oldest of
six kids, began working when he was 20, and bought control of
the company from his siblings in 1992. Three years later, the
company held an initial public offering.  In 1999, Casino bought 24 percent of the group’s voting
shares, and in 2005 increased its stake to 34 percent in an
agreement that gave the French group the option to buy control
of Pao de Acucar. Earlier this month, Casino raised its stake to
37 percent after Diniz reportedly held talks with Carrefour.  Diniz, a sports enthusiast who runs in the  New York 
Marathon, started to expand through acquisitions in 2009. In
June that year, Pao de Acucar bought Globex Utilidades SA, owner
of the Ponto Frio chain of electronics and home-appliance
stores, from Lily Safra, the widow of the late billionaire
Edmond Safra. In December 2009, Pao de Acucar agreed to buy
Casas Bahia Comercial Ltda. to expand in home appliances.  ‘Very Good Deal’  Brazil’s antitrust agency is still evaluating the 2009
acquisitions, which gave Pao de Acucar combined sales of 40
billion reais ($25 billion) annually and more than 1,700 stores.
If the merger with Carrefour goes through, the agency would
analyze all deals jointly, said Fernando de Magalhaes Furlan,
president of the antitrust agency, in an interview yesterday.  “Certainly to have announced something of this size,
they’ve already studied the problems they could encounter,”
said Marcelo Varejao, an analyst at Sao Paulo-based brokerage
Socopa Corretora. “The deal is very good for Pao de Acucar.
Apart from the large synergies of the operation, you end up
eliminating one of its direct competitors.”  -- With assistance from Felipe Frisch and Alexander Cuadros in
Sao Paulo, Stephen Taylor in Paris and Thomas Mulier in Geneva.
Editors: Celeste Perri, Adriana Arai  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net ;
Fabiola Moura at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net . 