-- 
Birmingham Owner Yeung Charged in Hong Kong Court With Money Laundering

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-30T11:22:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/birmingham-s-yeung-helping-hong-kong-police-in-criminal-probes-club-says.html
Carson Yeung, the former hairdresser
who bought control of English soccer club Birmingham City in
2009, was charged with money laundering in a Hong Kong court.  The police brought five charges against Yeung, 51, for
dealing with property “known or believed to represent proceeds
of an indictable offense,” with a total value of HK$721.3
million ($93 million), according to documents read in court
today. He was granted bail, with a hearing scheduled for Aug.
11.  Shares in  Birmingham International Holdings Ltd. (2309) , the West
Midlands-based team’s parent company, were suspended from
trading in Hong Kong today, according to a statement to the
city’s stock exchange. Peter Pannu, Birmingham’s acting
chairman, said in a statement yesterday that the investigations
didn’t have any connection with that company or any of its
subsidiaries.  “This does not appear to be a strong case whatsoever” as
prosecutors haven’t said what crime the money is supposed to
have come from, Daniel Marash, Yeung’s lawyer, said in court.  Yeung, who was detained yesterday, was released after
posting bail of HK$4 million in cash, and HK$3 million in cash
guarantees from two supporters. No plea was taken.  The charges against Yeung have the “hallmark of  money
laundering ” according to forensic experts, Hayson Tse, a lawyer
representing the prosecution, said in court today. Each charge
is punishable by as long as 14 years in jail and a fine of as
much as HK$5 million.  HK$400 Million House  Yeung will surrender his travel documents as one of the
conditions of his bail. His assets include a HK$400 million
house in Hong Kong’s Peak neighborhood, Marash told Acting
Principal Magistrate David Dufton today.  Yeung has a six month-old baby girl and 16 year-old son and
isn’t a flight risk, his lawyer said. The former hairstylist
stood throughout the English-language proceedings with his hands
clasped behind his back, and a translator outside the dock.  Hong Kong-listed Birmingham International Holdings is
operating normally, and the charges against Yeung are a
“personal issue,” Vico Hui, chief executive officer of the
company, told reporters in Hong Kong today.  The charges won’t affect the company or the  soccer club ,
said Hui, who posted a third of Yeung’s bail guarantee.  League Cup, Relegation  Yeung at a 2007 press conference said he has investments in
energy, hotels and property. An October 2009 statement by
Birmingham City Football Club said Yeung has “accumulated many
years of experience in international investment,” and was
chairman of Hong Kong Rangers Football Club during 2005 to 2006.  Birmingham was relegated from the Premier League last
season, three months after winning the League Cup, its first
major trophy in 48 years. The club appointed  Chris Hughton  as
its new manager last week after  Alex McLeish  quit to join city
rival  Aston Villa .  The businessman needed to be bailed because Birmingham
players have to be sold before the start of the new season, and
he plays a direct role in those decisions, Marash said.  In addition, a 17 million-pound ($27.4 million) loan to the
club by HSBC Holdings Plc is now being questioned due to Yeung’s
incarceration, the lawyer told the court.  The team’s finances have been under scrutiny since
Birmingham International earlier this year said its liabilities
exceeded assets by about HK$348 million. A fully underwritten
share sale in March raised HK$87 million.  Bought in 2009  “People are reminded that in recent years members of the
previous board were placed on bail for a significant amount of
time and nothing came of it,” Pannu said. “I am only using
this as an example to calm any fears.”  Birmingham, previously controlled by David and Ralph Gold
and  David Sullivan , was bought by Yeung in October 2009 in an
81.5 million-pound deal. Sullivan and the club’s former managing
director Karren Brady were questioned in April 2008 as part of a
fraud enquiry before being cleared of any wrongdoing.  In comments to Sky Sports News today, Pannu said he’d fly
to Hong Kong today “and I don’t think I can make any comment
until I find out more facts about it.”  “What I have been told by my colleagues in Hong Kong is
that charges relate to a period from 2001 to 2007, so that is at
least two years before Carson invested in this club, so I don’t
see any relationship,” he said. “The fans don’t have anything
to worry about, the finances are fine. These things do happen.
No charges are proven against him.”  The case is  Hong Kong  Special Administrative Region and
Yeung Ka-sing Carson, ESCC2717/2011 in the Hong Kong Eastern
Magistrates’ Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  