-- 
Bloomberg Convenes Experts on Brazil Investment Opportunities

-- B y  
-- 
2011-06-29T15:56:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/bloomberg-convenes-experts-on-brazil-investment-opportunities.html

Press Release  Features Key Players on the Emerging Market, Including Deputy
U.S. Trade Representative Miriam E. Sapiro; BlackRock’s Will
Landers; and Former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of
 Brazil  Paulo Vieira da Cunha  NEW YORK -- As Brazil’s growth continues to surge, Bloomberg
LINK will convene leading investors, economists, business
executives and policy makers to debate investment opportunities
in the country at the Bloomberg Brazil Conference.  The Conference, to be held on Thursday, July 14th at The  Cooper
Union  in  New York  City, will focus on the outlook for Brazil in
its new phase of growth, as well as on potential pitfalls of the
public sector that may impact investment. Among other topics,
speakers will address whether or not the Brazilian economy is
overheating, inflation and the future of the real, the country’s
relationship with  China , and key private sector companies in
industries such as real estate, energy, and commodities.  “There are many conferences focused solely on promoting Brazil’s
extraordinary growth and the opportunities as a result,” said
Robert Bierman, head of Bloomberg LINK. “Participants at the
Bloomberg Brazil conference will hear an independent, informed
perspective from international investors and thinkers on the
realities of participating in Brazil’s market.”  Key speakers include:  -Augusto de la Torre, Chief Economist, Latin American and the
Caribbean, The  World Bank   -Albert Fishlow, Professor Emeritus, School of International and
Public Affairs,  Columbia University   -Anthony S. Harrington, President and Chief Executive Officer,
Albright Stonebridge Group LLC; Former U.S. Ambassador to Brazil  -William M. Landers, Managing Director and Portfolio Manager,
BlackRock Latin America Fund  -Marcio Rocha Mello, Chief Executive Officer, HRT Participações
em Petróleo S.A.  -Curtis Mewbourne, Managing Director and Head of Portfolio
Management, PIMCO  -Simon Nocera, Chief Executive Officer and Founder, Lumen
Advisors LLC; Former Economist,  International Monetary Fund   -Christopher Sabatini, Senior Director of Policy,  Americas
Society/Council of the Americas; Founder and Editor-In-Chief,
Americas Quarterly  -Miriam E. Sapiro, Deputy U.S. Trade Representative  -Rob Speyer, President and Co-CEO, Tishman Speyer  -Paulo Vieira da Cunha, Partner and Head of Emerging Markets
Research, Tandem Global Partners; Former Deputy Governor,
Central Bank of Brazil  Additionally, comedian and former 60 Minutes II weekly humorist
Jimmy Tingle will treat attendees of the Bloomberg Brazil
Conference to an exclusive sneak peek of Jimmy Tingle for
President: The Exploratory Show. He is performing at the Triad
in  New York City  through August.  The conference is being sponsored by The Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. and OppenheimerFunds, Inc.  For more information on the program and speakers, please visit:
 http://www.bloomberglink.com/nyc-brazil .  Follow us on  Facebook ,  LinkedIn  and Twitter ( @BBGLINK ). The
hashtag for this event is #BBbrazil.  For more information on Bloomberg, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/about .  About Bloomberg LINK
Bringing the power of Bloomberg to the executive conference
business, Bloomberg LINK produces invitation-only, in-person
gatherings that combine world-class editorial programming with
peer-to-peer networking amongst the who’s who in influential
communities. In this environment, participants engage in open
discussions that lead to learning from each other’s expertise
and experience. For more information, please visit
www.bloomberglink.com.  About Bloomberg
Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Jessica Turtletaub, +1 212-617-8476,  jturtletaub@bloomberg.net 
