-- 
BNY Overcharged Massachusetts by $30.5 Million, Treasurer Says

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-06-29T18:49:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/bny-overcharged-massachusetts-by-30-5-million-treasurer-says.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) 
overcharged the Massachusetts public pension system by $30.5
million since 2000, Treasurer Steven Grossman said after
completing an extended review of foreign-exchange transactions.  BNY Mellon, the largest custody bank, charged an average of
33 basis points for foreign-exchange deals that were handled
automatically by the bank, compared with 2.2 basis points on
trades where BNY had to compete with rivals, Grossman said in a
statement today. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The state extended its review after an initial study found
the bank had charged the pension fund $20 million too much over
the past four years. Grossman said he is reviewing legal options
with state Attorney General  Martha Coakley . BNY Mellon is
already facing lawsuits from Virginia, Florida and Pennsylvania,
while Boston-based rival  State Street Corp. (STT)  has been sued by
California and Arkansas over the same issue.  “They were charging fees grossly in excess of where the
negotiated rates were,” Grossman said in a June 17 interview in
Boston.  The suits, and Grossman’s allegations, involve small
foreign exchange transactions handled automatically by the
pension funds’ custody banks, a service the banks say entitles
them to charge a higher margin than for large exchange orders
for which money managers can negotiate a price directly with
foreign exchange desks at competing banks.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and  hedge funds . BNY Mellon oversaw $25.5 trillion
in assets under custody and administration as of March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in  Boston  at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 