-- 
BofA Settles Soured Mortgages for $8.5 Billion

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-06-29T14:50:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/bofa-reaches-8-5-billion-settlement-on-soured-mortgages-with-bondholders.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
 U.S. bank , agreed to pay $8.5 billion to resolve claims made by
bondholders including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  over soured mortgages. The
lender rose as much as 4 percent in New York trading.  The settlement will contribute to a second-quarter loss of
$8.6 billion to $9.1 billion, or 88 cents to 93 cents a share,
the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank said today in a
statement. Bank of America also said it will add $5.5 billion to
a liability reserve for future loan-repurchase demands in the
quarter and post $6.4 billion in other charges including legal
costs and a writedown of mortgage-unit goodwill.  “This is progress in that it puts some parameters around
what the total loss will be,” said  Marty Mosby , a Nashville,
Tennessee-based analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC, which
manages more than $100 billion, including Bank of America
shares. “It’s not a great thing to pay this much, but it’s not
the worst-case scenario either.”  Investors, which also include Pacific Investment Management
Co. and the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , demanded in
October that Bank of America repurchase home loans that had been
packaged into bonds by Countrywide Financial Corp., which it
acquired in 2008. The settlement covers 530 mortgage trusts with
an original loan balance of $424 billion, or about half of the
bank’s so-called private-label deals, the bank said today.  Capital Depletion  The actions reduce uncertainty about future costs from
defective Countrywide mortgages, Bank of America Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said on a conference call. The firm
won’t need to sell shares to pay for the settlement, and it may
take two quarters to regain capital depleted by the deal,
Moynihan said.  The company’s board met yesterday to discuss the
settlement, which still needs court approval. The agreement
follows a $3 billion deal announced in January to resolve
similar claims from  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, the U.S.-owned
mortgage firms. Bank of America said in April that it agreed to
pay an estimated  $1.6 billion  to resolve claims with bond
insurer  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)   “This is another important step we are taking in the
interest of our shareholders to minimize the impact of future
economic uncertainty,” Moynihan said in the statement. The
company will continue to “act aggressively, and in the best
interest of our shareholders, to clean up the mortgage issues
largely stemming from our purchase of Countrywide.”  Share Performance  Bank of America declined 19 percent this year through
yesterday on the  New York  Stock Exchange on concern mortgage-
related costs, new international capital rules and a slowing
U.S. economy will swamp earnings. The shares rose 30 cents, or
2.8 percent, to $11.12 at 10:29 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  The settlement, which also includes changes in how Bank of
America services loans, won support from 22 investors, including
the BlackRock group represented by Gibbs & Bruns LLP, the  law
firm  said today in a statement. The Bank of New York Mellon
Corp., as the trustee for the mortgage-bond deals, will direct
the flow of settlement payments.  Costs tied to faulty mortgages have been a moving target
for Moynihan, 51. The firm previously said expenses tied to
demands from bond buyers other than Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac 
could range from zero to as much as $7 billion to $10 billion.
In a May regulatory filing, the lender said that estimate may be
$11 billion to $14 billion if it made incorrect assumptions
regarding the difficulties investors would face making claims.  Private Deals  The firm said today that it expected as much as $5 billion
in additional costs on the private bond deals not included in
the settlement and reserve additions.  Bank of America said second-quarter results will also
include a $2.5 billion gain, including a benefit from the sale
of its Balboa insurance unit and a stake in BlackRock. Sales and
trading results for the quarter improved from a year earlier and
were below the first three months of this year.  Countrywide ranked as the top issuer of the securities in
2005, 2006 and 2007, when the worst-performing debt was created,
according to Inside MBS & ABS, a newsletter. The lender created
$405 billion of the $3.04 trillion of bonds sold in those years.
Bank of America issued $76.9 billion and Merrill Lynch, which
was purchased by the bank at the start of 2009, and First
Franklin, which Merrill Lynch bought at the beginning of 2007,
issued a combined $116 billion.  Bond insurer MBIA Inc., in suing Bank of America and
Countrywide over $21 billion of mortgage securities in New York
State Supreme Court, said its reviews had found that 91 percent
of defaulted or delinquent loans had “material discrepancies
from underwriting guidelines,” such as borrower incomes, credit
scores or debt-to-income ratios.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  