-- 
Most Bovespa Stocks Drop as Interest-Rate Outlook Offsets Steelmaker Rally

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-06-29T20:38:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/bovespa-stock-index-advances-as-brazilian-banks-gain-following-greek-vote.html
The Bovespa stock index gained for a
third day as steelmakers rallied and Brazilian banks advanced,
following the rise of financial stocks around the world on eased
concern about the Greek debt crisis.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA jumped the most in
almost four months after Deutsche Bank AG said in an e-mailed
note to clients that steel prices are “nearing a ‘floor’.”
Banco do Brasil SA, Latin America’s biggest bank by assets, led
gains by banks.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge climbed 0.1 percent to
62,333.97 at the close of  Sao Paulo  trading at 4:15 p.m. New
York time. Thirty-five stocks declined on the index, while 31
rose. The real strengthened 0.5 percent to 1.5675 per  U.S.
dollar .  “Steelmakers’ stocks are starting to become quite cheap”,
Leonardo Brito, an equity analyst at Teorica Investimentos in
 Rio de Janeiro , said in a telephone interview today. “If you
look at future  cash flow , these shares are worth much more,” he
said.  Usiminas, as Usinas Siderurgicas is known, jumped 4.8
percent to 13.81 reais, the most since March 3. Cia. Siderurgica
Nacional SA, which had slumped 29 percent this year through
yesterday, rose 2 percent to 19.25 reais. Steel prices are
nearing a “floor” and should be “flat-to-up” in the short
term, Deutsche Bank’s analyst  David Martin  wrote in a note to
clients.  Steel Demand  Separately, U.S. steel demand could “surprise to the
upside” in the third quarter, said Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
analyst Sal Tharani. Gerdau SA, which generated 28 percent of
2010 net sales from  North America , advanced 3.1 percent to 16.18
reais.  Brazilian banks advanced after Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  clinched enough votes today to pass the first part of
an austerity plan aimed at meeting European Union aid
requirements and staving off default for his debt-laden nation.  Banco do Brasil rose 1.4 percent to 27.81 reais.  Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar slid
3.1 percent to 71 reais, erasing an earlier gain of 12 percent,
as speculation eased that a plan to merge the retailer with
Carrefour SA’s Brazilian assets will succeed.  Banco BTG Pactual SA investment fund Gama proposed the
merger yesterday, spurring opposition from Carrefour rival
Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA, which partly owns Pao de Acucar
and called the plan “illegal.” While Casino could veto the
deal or seek better terms, the current proposal may value the
combined company at 92 reais a share, according to Banco
Santander SA.  Inflation Concern  Brazil ’s benchmark equity gauge has lost 15 percent from a
November high on concern quickening inflation may hurt domestic
demand, while a slowdown in global economic growth could cut the
appetite for commodities.  The Bovespa trades at 9.8 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, the lowest since March 2009, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 12.8 for the
Shanghai Composite Index, 6.2 for  Russia ’s Micex and 14.9 for
 India ’s Sensex.  Traders moved 6.6 billion reais in stocks today, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares to a daily average
this year of 6.5 billion reais, according to data from the
exchange.  Investors pulled 1.48 billion reais from  Latin America ’s
largest equity market in the year through June 8, according to
the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  