-- 
Brazil Set to Battle China Over African Copper With Priciest Bid: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-29T14:32:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/brazil-set-to-battle-china-over-african-copper-with-priciest-bid-real-m-a.html
Brazil and China are heading for a
battle of strategic necessity over copper in Africa that will
leave the winner walking away with the most expensive
acquisition of a diversified minerals company.  Jinchuan Group, the biggest Chinese nickel producer, is
considering a bid for Johannesburg-based  Metorex Ltd. (MTX)  to rival
 Vale SA (VALE5) ’s offer, two people familiar with the deal said
yesterday. Metorex yesterday closed 6.1 percent above Rio de
Janeiro-based Vale’s proposal of 7.35 rand a share, the most of
any pending deal in Africa, making it the likeliest to garner a
higher price tag, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, and Jinchuan
are seeking Metorex’s copper and cobalt mines in the Democratic
Republic of Congo and Zambia after demand in China for copper
used in construction and appliances pushed the metal to a record
this year. Vale’s 7.9 billion rand ($1.2 billion) offer already
values Metorex at 30.2 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, the richest diversified minerals
takeover greater than $1 billion, the data show. Bids may reach
10 rand a share, said First Asset Investment Management Inc.  “The Chinese and the Brazilians have voracious appetites”
for mining, said  Andrew Ross , partner and global equity trader
at First  New York  Securities LLC, a New York-based proprietary
trading firm that bets on stocks, commodities, currencies and
derivatives. “They view themselves in direct competition for
these strategic natural resource assets.”  Competing Bid  A Vale official in  Rio de Janeiro , who declined to be named
citing corporate policies, said the company had no comment.
Jacques de Bie, a spokesman for Metorex, referred to the
company’s June 17 statement disclosing an “unsolicited, non-
binding expression of interest” from another party.  “It’s not yet a bid or a firm offer or a firm intention to
make an offer,” de Bie said. “It’s just an expression of
interest at this stage.”  Jinchuan has not made a decision regarding a bid, one
person said yesterday, asking not to be identified because it’s
too early in the process. Wang Wanshou, a Jinchuan official,
said yesterday that he had no information on the deal. A call to
the company office outside business hours wasn’t answered.  Metorex owns the Ruashi copper and cobalt open-pit mine in
the Katanga province of Congo, as well as the  Chibuluma 
underground copper mine in  Zambia . The company has an estimated
4.74 million tons of copper resources, it said in April.  ‘Hard to Find’  “Good copper assets are hard to find and Zambian copper
assets are prized,” said  John Stephenson , who helps manage
C$2.7 billion ($2.8 billion) at First Asset Investment in
Toronto. “Both Vale and Jinchuan could use the copper exposure
and it would be a huge benefit for both.”  Metorex shares climbed 0.8 percent to 7.86 rand as of 4:24
p.m. in Johannesburg. Vale slipped 0.1 percent to 44.44 reais in
 Sao Paulo .  Vale is aiming to increase production of copper almost
fivefold to 1 million metric tons by 2015. The company, which
made 75 percent of its revenue last year from iron-ore mining,
cut its target this week for 2015 output of the steelmaking
ingredient by 10 percent.  It already has a presence in Zambia via its joint venture
with Johannesburg-based African Rainbow Minerals Ltd. to develop
the Konkola North copper project. Vale Chief Executive Officer
Murilo Ferreira, who started in the role in May, told investors
that month that the company needs to speed up its studies on how
to increase copper output.  ‘Very Strategic’  “Vale has not been successful thus far in building out a
meaningful copper business with their assets in  Brazil ,” said
Anthony Rizzuto, an analyst at  Dahlman Rose  & Co. in New York.
“You’re looking at a company that has and needs to pay up to be
able to expand this business, which they regard as being very
strategic in nature.”  Brazil’s gross domestic product grew 7.5 percent in 2010,
the fastest pace in more than two decades, according to a
central bank survey of economists published May 30. The country
overtook  Italy  last year to become the world’s seventh-largest
economy, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Vale’s bid at 30.2 times Ebitda of 262.3 million rand in
the most recent 12 months for which finalized financial
statements were available was about three times the next highest
valuation ever paid in the diversified minerals industry for a
takeover greater than $1 billion, Bloomberg data show. The prior
record was Xstrata Plc’s purchase of Jubilee Mines NL for 10.1
times Ebitda, or $2.5 billion, announced in 2007.  Estimated Earnings  The offer by Vale is much cheaper based on Metorex’s
projected earnings. The Brazilian company would be paying 3.7
times the Ebitda of 2.1 billion rand estimated for this year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Metorex’s biggest shareholder, Industrial Development
Corp., said it’s “premature” to take a position regarding
other bidders. IDC, which is South  Africa ’s state lender, in May
threw support to Vale’s bid.  “We don’t have a position on a new offer as no new offer
has been presented so far,” Mbuyazwe Magagula, the new head of
mining for IDC, said in an interview yesterday.  Shareholders are scheduled to vote on Vale’s offer July 22.
Metorex’s agreement allows other potential acquirers to review
the same information that was given to Vale, leaving the door
open to other bids.  ‘Doesn’t Surprise Me’  Jinchuan Chairman Yang Zhiqiang said in a March interview
that the closely held company is looking to buy stakes in
overseas copper mines. The Gansu Province-based company produced
about 400,000 tons of copper, 130,000 tons of nickel and 6,000
tons of cobalt last year.  “Copper and cobalt are in strong demand in  China ,” said
Bernard Horn Jr., president of Boston-based Polaris Capital
Management LLC, which manages over $4 billion and more than 25
million Metorex shares. “So it certainly doesn’t surprise me
that some Chinese buyers are potentially interested.”  China agreed in January 2008 to help rebuild Congo in
return for access to copper and cobalt. Congo has a third of the
world’s cobalt, which is used in medical implants and
rechargeable batteries.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in February that China, the world’s
largest user of copper, plans to build 36 million affordable
homes in the next five years.  “Copper demand will continue to expand,” Dahlman Rose’s
Rizzuto said. “Copper is a basic building block of
infrastructure development.”  Copper Prices  Copper for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange has nearly tripled to $9,072 a ton as of June 28 since
the end of 2008 and climbed as high as a record $10,190 on Feb.
15. The metal, which is used in electric cables and plumbing,
will average $9,750 this year and $10,000 in 2012, according to
the median of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Mining
companies haven’t kept pace with demand because reserves are
becoming harder to find and the quality of ore is declining,
meaning less copper is extracted from each ton of rock.  Metorex closed at 7.80 rand yesterday, the highest price
since October 2008 and 6.1 percent above Vale’s offer, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The share price has been trading above the offer price,
so obviously there are some investors out there who are pretty
convinced there is going to be a better offer,” said Stephen Meintjes, head of research at Imara SP Reid in Johannesburg.  A “knockout bid” may be closer to 9 rand a share, he
said. First Asset Investment’s Stephenson said a bidding war may
reach 10 rand a share or more.  Congo Mining Projects  The deal isn’t as expensive based on future earnings from
three mining projects in Congo that haven’t started operating,
Meintjes said. Two of the  projects  are “within a few
kilometers” of the Zambian border, according to Metorex’s
website, which is where Vale and African Rainbow Minerals are
developing the Konkola North copper mine.  Even though Metorex’s assets are “worth a lot of money,”
they will require additional capital from a buyer to bring them
into production, Polaris’s Horn said.  “There’s a potential bidding war for this African asset,”
First New York’s Ross said. “There’s a race for assets
worldwide going on. China and Brazil are at the forefront of
that race.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 