-- 
Brazil Says Fifth Rate Increase Not Enough to Hit CPI Target in 2012

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-06-29T17:21:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/brazil-central-bank-sees-inflation-at-target-only-in-second-quarter-2013.html
Brazil ’s central bank signaled that
a fifth interest rate increase this year won’t be enough to slow
inflation to its target in 2012. Interest rate futures yields
rose.  The bank, in its quarterly inflation report today, forecast
consumer prices will rise 4.9 percent in 2012 and slow to the
4.5 percent target in the second quarter of 2013, if it
increases the benchmark interest rate to 12.50 percent in July
and the real weakens. Prices will rise 5.8 percent this year,
under the so-called market scenario.  Policy markers remain committed to meeting their 4.5
inflation target in 2012, said Carlos Hamilton, the central
bank’s director for economic policy, speaking to reporters in
Brasilia today. The report reiterated that they will raise
interest rates for a “sufficiently long” period, after
increasing their inflation forecasts from the March report. The
10 most-traded interest rate futures contracts in  Sao Paulo  rose
today, as traders increased bets that policy makers will boost
rates at their next two meetings.  “I was surprised by the inflation projections that
worsened more than was expected,” said Flavio Serrano, chief
economist at Espirito Santo Investment Bank. “This increases
the probability of a rate hike of 25 basis points for August
after an increase in July.”  The yield on interest rate futures maturing in January
2012, the most-traded in Sao Paulo, rose two basis points to
12.43 percent at 12:58 p.m. New York time. The real strengthened
0.4 percent to 1.5693 per  U.S. dollar .  August Decision  Traders expect the central bank to increase the Selic a
quarter point to 12.50 percent at its July 20 meeting, and are
split on whether policy makers will raise again in August,
according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures.  The central bank misses its 2012 target in all of its three
inflation outlooks -- the reference, the market and the
alternative scenarios. All three show consumer prices only
meeting the target in the second quarter of 2013.  While inflation is slowing in  Latin America ’s biggest
economy, a tight labor market may boost price pressures.  Wholesale, construction and consumer prices, as measured by
the IGP-M  price index , fell in June for the first time since
December 2009 as agricultural prices tumbled, the Getulio Vargas
Foundation said in a report today. The 0.18 percent decline
compared with a 0.43 percent rise in May and the median forecast
of a 0.2 percent drop in a Bloomberg survey of 28 analysts.  The index rose 8.65 percent from a year ago. Agricultural
prices sank 1.8 percent from the previous month.  Consumer Prices  Consumer prices, as measured by the IPCA-15 index, rose
0.23 percent in the month through mid-June, the slowest pace
since August and down from 0.70 percent a month earlier. Still,
low readings a year ago led to an acceleration in the annual
inflation rate to 6.55 percent, the fastest since July 2005. The
central bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent plus or minus two
percentage points.  The widespread use of “indexation,” or linking prices and
salaries to past inflation, increases the so-called sacrifice
ratio, the amount of gross domestic product lost in order to
cool price pressures, the report said.  The central bank slowed the pace of tightening to a quarter
point in April, after half-point increases at its two previous
meetings.  The bank said today it expects the pace of loan growth to
slow in the coming months, though a tight labor market and wage
increases remains a “very important” inflation risk. Credit
expanded in May at the fastest pace this year, and unemployment
fell to the lowest on record for the month of May.  Slower Growth  The central bank expects economic growth to slow to 4
percent this year from a two-decade-high of 7.5 percent in 2010,
the inflation report shows. That was unchanged from its previous
forecast in the March quarterly report.  President  Dilma Rousseff  is relying on higher borrowing
costs, measures to curb  consumer credit  and spending cuts to
slow inflation that has remained above the 6.5 percent upper
limit of the target range since April. The bank today reiterated
that a prolonged tightening cycle remains the “most adequate”
strategy.  “A lot of work has already been done, and we’ll see the
effects on inflation further down the road,” Hamilton said.
“Brazil needs to be patient to see the results.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net 
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  