-- 
Buffett’s Forgotten $20 Helps California Bridge Budget Gap

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   R o d n e y   Y a p
-- 
2011-06-29T16:47:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/buffett-s-forgotten-20-helps-californians-bridge-state-s-10-billion-gap.html
California Controller John Chiang
has $20 for  Warren Buffett .  There’s also more than $10,000 owed to director  Steven Spielberg , part of a $6.1 billion  cache  of dormant savings
accounts, store credits and forsaken royalty payments that has
only grown since 2007 when Chiang, a 48-year-old Democrat, took
steps to return more unclaimed property to owners.  “It just keeps coming in,” said Hallye Jordan, a
spokeswoman for Chiang, who herself has $66.58 in unclaimed
dividends she hasn’t gotten around to retrieving.  The boom is a boon for California’s general fund, where the
stray cash is deposited and used as a sort of no-interest loan
to pay salaries and expenses -- a cushion that has helped  keep
the state afloat while state politicians wrestled over a $10
billion  budget deficit , the largest in the nation. Getting the
money to its owners is a challenge for the controller’s office,
where as many as 86 staffers work processing claims.  Orphan funds from banks, brokerage firms and other
businesses arrived at a rate of $633 million last year,
outstripping the $399 million Chiang’s office returned to
beneficiaries. He can’t persuade some people to ask for their
money -- even Governor  Jerry Brown , who never recouped $61 he
left in a brokerage account that was closed in 1996. Brown’s
spokesman, Evan Westrup, said the governor declined to comment.  Along with Buffett and Spielberg, Brown is among the 13.1
million organizations and individuals whose unclaimed property
has been handed over to the state since 1959.  ‘News to Him’  Buffett, chairman and chief executive of  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , was ranked the second-richest American by Forbes magazine
with a net worth of $50 billion, after  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-
founder  Bill Gates . He is owed $20 from an escrow account.  Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa is due $386.33 from
escrow and cashier’s checks. Actor  Charlie Sheen  could collect
$1,137.93 from three inactive accounts.  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment e-mailed to
his assistant,  Carrie Kizer . Sarah Hamilton, a spokeswoman for
Villaraigosa, had no immediate comment. Sheen’s attorney, Martin Singer, didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Spielberg has a $135  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  credit, a $206
overpayment to pharmacy benefits manager  Medco Health Solutions
Inc. (MHS) , and $10,000 in a cashier’s check at Bank of America that
he never cashed, according to the state database.  “I would guess it would be news to him and to everybody
here,” his spokesman, Marvin Levy, said in an e-mail.  ‘Too Wealthy’  Not all sums are minor. City governments in  California  are
owed $632,934, and counties at least $880,707, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The controller returned over $2.2 million
to local governments last year and has a team working on those
accounts, according to Jordan.  Someone named Steven A. Aranoff, who the state has been
trying to find, has $1.6 million coming to him.  “Some people are just too wealthy,” Chiang said when
asked why more people don’t claim their money. “It’s all
relative.”  Every state has a law to prevent businesses from sitting on
customers’ funds forever, requiring that a stock certificate
that has been ignored or a safety deposit box that hasn’t been
paid for be turned over. The time period is typically three
years, according to  Kevin Johnson , a spokesman for the
Lexington, Kentucky-based  National Association of Unclaimed
Property Administrators . Right now, Johnson said, there is $33
billion in such property across the U.S.  “All states guarantee that if you have a legitimate claim
they’ll pay it,” Johnson said. “The states use the money in
the interim.”  ‘Dangerous Territory’  North Carolina  uses the interest on its $500 million for
college scholarships. Ohio, with $1.4 billion, spends it on low-
income housing programs. Proceeds from abandoned property will
generate $424 million or 12.6 percent of  Delaware ’s revenue this
year, according to the state Economic and Financial Advisory
Council -- making it the largest source of funds after personal
income and business franchise taxes.  In  New York , which has collected $10.5 billion of unclaimed
property since 1942, Governor  Andrew Cuomo  persuaded the
Legislature in April to reduce the amount of time businesses are
required to turn over unclaimed funds to three years from five,
generating an additional $55 million for the state. Texas
Governor Rick Perry signed similar legislation on June 17.  Federal Case  “It’s supposed to be a consumer-protection law,” said
Valerie Jundt, a managing director at Keane, a New York-based
consulting firm that helps companies comply with unclaimed
property regulations. “It becomes dangerous territory when
states and legislators are using this to balance their
budgets.”  Legislators in California last night passed a budget that
relies on $4 billion in extra revenue and additional service
cuts to eliminate the $10 billion shortfall.  California had to step up its efforts to return unclaimed
property after losing a federal court case in 2007 brought by
stockholders who hadn’t been contacted before their shares
reverted to the state, according to Robert Peters, managing
director of state taxes at the consulting firm Duff & Phelps LLC
in  Chicago .  The controller sponsored legislation requiring his office
to reach out to would-be beneficiaries, and created the position
of Property Owner Advocate to further facilitate claims. A
 website  that is searchable by name is updated weekly, according
to Jordan. About her own unclaimed property, she said: “I’ll
get around to it.”  Chiang sent out 1.39 million notices last year, up from
22,000 in 2000. California recently joined other states,
including Florida and  Connecticut , in more aggressively pursuing
dormant accounts from insurance companies.  Finger Snap  Chiang reached a  settlement  with insurer John Hancock in
April, requiring the company to check the names of policy
holders each quarter against Social Security Administration
death records, and to notify beneficiaries who haven’t claimed
payouts. The company agreed to help the controller return $20
million in death benefits or annuities to heirs.  “The agreement sets new industry standards for the complex
issues involving abandoned property,” Roy Anderson, a Hancock
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  For cash-strapped local governments, remittances are
lagging behind budget pressures.  “Generally, it takes months for the state to process and
actually remit escheated property back to the district,” said
Mark Harris, director of accounts payable at the  Los Angeles 
Unified School District. “They simply tell us that claims are
processed on a first-in, first-out basis and that they will
process our claims when they can get to them.”  The district is owed about $56,000, according to the data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Chiang said his office gets hundreds of thousands of claims
a year. “Everyone wants it like that,” he said, snapping his
fingers for emphasis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Rodney Yap in Los Angeles at 
 ryap@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  