-- 
Buffett-Backed BYD Surges in Shenzhen Debut on Electric-Vehicle Incentives

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-30T08:36:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/buffett-backed-byd-may-fall-in-shenzhen-debut-as-profit-slumps.html
BYD Co., the Chinese automaker part-
owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., surged on its
Shenzhen trading debut today amid speculation it may benefit
from government funding for electric-vehicle development.  BYD closed 41 percent higher at 25.45 yuan today. That
compares with a 1.2 percent gain in the benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index and a 46 percent jump for Sailun Co. Ltd, the
other stock that debuted today in Shenzhen.  China may announce a plan early next month to invest 100
billion yuan ($15 billion) to help companies develop vehicles
powered by alternative energy,  China Quality News  reported on
its website yesterday. BYD started selling its F3DM plug-in
hybrid to corporate and government customers in December 2008,
making it the world’s first mass-produced plug-in hybrid car.  “BYD will be one of the first companies that will benefit
by incentives like this,” said Vivien Chan, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at SinoPac Securities Asia Ltd. “Investors’ bet on the
incentives are helping pushing up BYD’s shares.”  BYD reported an 84 percent plunge in profit yesterday for
the three months ended March. Declining sales and higher
expenses dragged net income to 266.7 million yuan from 1.7
billion yuan a year earlier, according to BYD.  “It may have gone through its worst performing period,”
Chan said.  China  IPOs  BYD’s Hong Kong-traded shares, which fell the most in more
than three months yesterday, rose 5.7 percent to close at
HK$25.25 today.  Companies that had their initial share sales in Shanghai
and Shenzhen this year have declined by an average of 14 percent
since their first day of trading, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  BYD’s auto sales have slowed this year as the government
removed incentives that spurred buying for cars with engines
smaller than 1.6 liters, such as its F3 sedan. The carmaker
raised 1.35 billion yuan in a share sale in Shenzhen to fund
research and expand its manufacturing facilities.  The company plans to introduce the new G6 car model this
year and appoint dealers in the U.S. for its E6 electric car,
Stella Li, BYD’s senior vice president, said in a June 17
interview.  The automaker is aiming to match last year’s sales in 2011
and sees growth resuming at the start of 2012, Li said. BYD
delivered 519,806 cars in 2010, compared with a forecast of
600,000 units.  On-Board TVs  Chinese billionaire Wang Chuanfu founded BYD as a lithium-
ion battery maker in 1995, before expanding into auto making in
2003 with the purchase of Xi’an Tsinchuan Auto Co.  MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., a unit of Buffett’s
Berkshire Hathaway, bought 9.9 percent of BYD in September 2008
to tap rising demand for clean technology. BYD’s Hong Kong
shares surged more than ninefold after Buffett’s investment,
reaching a record close of HK$85.50 on Oct. 23, 2009.  The carmaker has lost 66 percent of its market value since
and has declined 38 percent this year, compared with a 2.8
percent drop for the benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)   BYD’s vehicle sales declined for 10 straight months through
May as the popularity of its F3 sedan waned. Sales of the F3
dropped 30 percent to 97,300 in the first five months, ranking
it behind Volkswagen AG’s Lavida and Jetta and General Motors
Co.’s Excelle in China, according to the  China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers .  ‘Fill the Holes’  The carmaker said May 5 it planned to use 1.14 billion yuan
from the share sale for research and development and expand its
production facilities in Shenzhen. The company will use 652
million yuan of the proceeds to expand its auto-parts unit and
400 million yuan on a lithium-ion battery project, it said.  BYD’s sales will struggle to recover as inventory remains
high and dealers continue to exit the brand’s network, said Jack Yeung, an analyst at BNP Paribas Securities Asia Ltd. in  Hong
Kong .  “This is not looking good,” said Yeung, who has a
“hold” rating on the stock. “The money they raised from their
A shares is probably going to fill the holes, rather than for
additional development,” he said, referring to the company’s
Shenzhen sale.  Adoption of electric cars is still in its infancy and
unlikely to contribute significantly to BYD’s profit in the near
future, according to New York-based Chardan Capital Markets LLC.  Electric Cars  The carmaker will start fleet sales of the E6 in the U.S.
at the end of 2011, it said at the Detroit Auto show this year,
delaying a previous plan to begin deliveries in 2010. Retail
sales will commence in the first quarter of 2012.  Under a pilot plan announced last year, China, the world’s
biggest polluter, is paying as much as 50,000 yuan toward the
purchase of plug-in hybrid models and as much as 60,000 yuan for
vehicles running only on batteries in  Shanghai , Changchun,
Shenzhen, Hangzhou and Hefei. The government is also considering
waiving annual taxes for such owners, the  China Daily  reported
June 20.  Increasing demand for electric cars will boost BYD’s sales,
Li said on June 17.  “We are talking about future cars, future needs,” she
said. “The markets will need a green car, and then, BYD will
play an important role.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  