-- 
Buy Industrial-Share Volatility Around ISM Reports, Goldman Says

-- B y   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r
-- 
2011-06-29T14:19:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/buy-industrial-share-volatility-around-ism-reports-goldman-says.html
Industrial-company options are
attractive because the shares tend to have “unusually large”
moves around the release of monthly manufacturing data, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said in a note today.  Investors should buy August $36 puts to sell and August $37
calls to buy the  Industrial Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLI) , an
exchange-traded fund tracking 60 stocks such as Boeing Co. and
Caterpillar Inc., because of “consistently large” moves in
those companies on the day the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
Manufacturing Index is released, according to John Marshall and
Krag “Buzz” Gregory, New York-based strategists at Goldman.  “We see the potential for elevated volatility over the
next month,” the strategists said. “Industrials options prices
are likely to remain well-bid through July as investors focus on
corporate earnings results, the U.S. debt-ceiling debate and
global growth concerns.”  The industrials ETF rose 4.6 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a gain of 3.1 percent for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index. The benchmark gauge for U.S. stocks
retreated 4.9 percent from its 2011 high on April 29 through
yesterday as the sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe  threatened to
crimp growth and the Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for the
U.S., which measures whether reports beat forecasts, fell to a
29-month low on June 3.  The release of the ISM report, a Chicago purchasing-
managers index and  Japan ’s Tankan survey, as well as attempts to
resolve  Greece ’s sovereign-debt crisis, “have the potential to
drive large moves for industrials,” the strategists said.  The report also listed 30 stocks that “make unusually
large moves on ISM releases,” including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  and  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Joanna Ossinger in  New York  at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 