-- 
California Lawmakers Give Approval to Brown’s $85.9 Billion Spending Plan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-06-29T17:07:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/california-lawmakers-approve-brown-s-85-9-billion-spending-plan.html
California lawmakers passed a budget
brokered with Governor  Jerry Brown  that wagers the state’s
recovering economy will bring in an extra $4 billion, after he
ceded his plan for higher taxes that was blocked by Republicans.  The $85.9 billion spending package, approved by the
Democratic majority late yesterday, erases a $10 billion deficit
with higher revenue projections, reduced spending and deferred
payments. It triggers $2.5 billion of additional cuts if the
better-than-expected revenue doesn’t materialize, to assure  Wall
Street  that the state can repay cash-flow loans by June 2012.  “It’s what we’ve been waiting for,” said Kelly Wine,
executive vice president of Encino, California-based RH
Investment Corp., as lawmakers were summoned to vote yesterday.
“I wasn’t expecting this to be done this soon and I think this
is very positive.”  California , which accounts for 13 percent of the U.S. gross
domestic product, requires a budget in place before it can sell
a projected $5 billion in revenue-anticipation notes, or RANS.
The short-term municipal bonds, offered when cash is low, are
repaid when the bulk of taxes are collected later in the year.
Without the notes, the state could run out of money, as it did
in 2009 when the controller issued $2.6 billion of IOUs.  California, which has the lowest credit rating of any state
from  Standard & Poor’s , can borrow money against the spending
plan, which Treasurer Bill Lockyer yesterday  called 
“financeable.”  Credit Rating  “The budget makes substantial progress towards eliminating
California’s large and chronic structural deficit,” Lockyer
said. “Rating agencies repeatedly have citied the lack of such
progress in prior budgets as one of the major reasons for
previous rating downgrades. These downgrades have increased
taxpayers’ borrowing costs and diminished California’s
reputation.”  Brown took office in January facing a $26 billion deficit
through June 2012. That gap will have been filled with almost
$12 billion of better-than-expected revenue, about the same
amount in spending cuts and $3.5 billion of payment deferrals
and accounting shifts.  The 73-year-old Democrat had wanted to cover part of the
shortfall with $11 billion in expiring taxes and fees. Brown had
tried since January to win enough Republican votes to put the
issue to a statewide vote, without success. He said he may try
to put some sort of tax increase on the ballot in November 2012
through a signature-gathering campaign.  Rising Revenue  California’s rising revenue -- $1.2 billion above
projections in May and June -- has been driven primarily by
upper-income taxes and  capital gains , according to the state
budget director, Ana Matosantos. Budget officials project $4
billion more in the fiscal year beginning July 1 than they had
estimated in May.  If that money doesn’t materialize, the new budget sets
tiered spending cuts. For example, if revenue falls $2 billion
or more below the new projections, schools would lose $1.5
billion, the equivalent of about a week of the academic year.  “Going forward, we do expect more revenues in the budget
year coming up, but in case that’s overly optimistic, we do have
severe trigger cuts that will be triggered and go into effect,
and those are real,” Brown told reporters June 27.  “This plan relies primarily on cuts, brutal cuts, which
place me and many other members well outside of our comfort
zone,” Assemblyman Robert Blumenfield, a Van Nuys Democrat who
chairs the budget committee, said before the vote. “These cuts
will forever haunt our consciences.”  Budget ‘Nonsense’  The notion of $4 billion in additional revenue is
“nonsense,” said Christopher Thornberg, principal at Beacon
Economics LLC in  Los Angeles . Even a best-case scenario for the
state economy wouldn’t yield that much, he said.  “They don’t want to make the cuts that the Republicans are
basically forcing them into,” Thornberg said of legislative
Democrats. “They’re basically doing a dodge.”  Assemblyman Jim Nielsen, the top Republican on the Budget
Committee, said the spending plan neglects changes to pensions
and to environmental regulations that would boost California’s
economic recovery.  “It does not solve our problems in the long term,” the
Gerber Republican said. “There are no sustaining measures.”  The state’s 120 lawmakers have been working without pay
since a June 15 constitutional deadline for them to send a
budget to Brown. The penalty was prescribed by voters in a
ballot initiative in November.  Brown vetoed a spending plan crafted by Democrats that he
said was filled with gimmicks. So far, rank-and-file lawmakers
have lost at least $3,416 plus $142 for each day they were in
session since June 15.  Republican Power  Republicans had been using their power to block his tax
plan to jockey for cuts to public pensions and to environmental
and business regulations, as well as a push for a permanent
limit on how much the state can spend each year. Those talks are
now dead.  Republicans argued that Democrats refused to concede on
pension reforms and the spending cap because they are beholden
to public employee unions.  Some of the money from the tax increase extensions would
have paid for a shift of more than $5 billion of government
services such as public safety to the city and county level. The
new spending plan still finances that shift, but out of existing
tax revenue instead.  Sales Tax Drop  With the taxes and fees expiring, California’s retail
sales-tax  rate  will drop 1 percentage point to 7.25 percent,
still the highest statewide levy in the country. Vehicle
registrations will decline 0.5 percentage point to 0.65 percent
of value. Income taxes shrank by 0.25 percentage points in
January, and the state’s annual child-tax credit increased to
$309 from $99.  The new budget also counts on $200 million under
legislation requiring sales-tax collections by online retailers
including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  for purchases by state residents.
Amazon, the world’s largest online retailer, has threatened to
sever ties with more than 10,000 affiliates in California over
the proposal.  The budget keeps alive more than 400 redevelopment agencies
that Brown sought to close, though it requires them to turn over
about $1.7 billion next year. Courts have ruled against the
state for previous attempts to raid their revenue.  A California general obligation maturing in August 2022 was
unchanged at 105.66 cents on the dollar yesterday, according to
Bloomberg Valuation pricing. That compares with a value of
101.21 cents on Jan. 3.  “I just don’t think that the Street has digested it,”
Wine said. “Cal GOs have traded pretty strongly up until now. I
think the consensus was that the state was going to get the
budget passed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  