-- 
Canada Sells AECL’s CANDU Reactor Division to SNC-Lavalin

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-06-29T22:42:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/canada-sells-aecl-s-candu-reactor-division-to-snc-lavalin-1-.html
The Canadian government agreed to
sell the CANDU reactor division of Atomic Energy of Canada
Limited to  SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC) , a construction and
engineering company based in Montreal.  SNC-Lavalin said in a separate release it will buy AECL’s
reactor division for C$15 million ($15.5 million) plus royalty
payments from the construction of new reactors and reactor
refurbishment projects.  “This acquisition will require concerted and coordinated
effort on the part of all stakeholders to work together,”
Patrick Lamarre, executive vice president of Global Power at
SNC-Lavalin, said in the statement.  The deal between Ottawa and the sole remaining bidder for
the CANDU reactor builder ends the 49-year-old government
agency’s role in building reactors and will probably initiate
better cost controls, said Frederic Bastien, a Vancouver-based
analyst with Raymond James & Associates Inc.  “The approach from the perspective of an SNC, a very
disciplined capital allocator, would benefit the business
overall,” Bastien said in a telephone interview. “The
government has been trying to get rid of it for a while, so it
looks like it wouldn’t be a big financial burden on SNC.”  Government Report  The sale negotiations have dragged on since a government
report in 2009 recommended selling the AECL’s commercial arm
while placing its Chalk River laboratory that produces medical
isotopes under an outside contract. Along the way, Westinghouse
Electric Corp., the U.S.-based reactor builder owned by Toshiba
Corp., Areva SA, the world’s biggest maker of nuclear equipment
and Bruce Power, an atomic plant operator in Ontario, all
dropped out.  SNC-Lavalin will focus on servicing the 34 CANDU reactors
in seven countries, said Yuri Lynk, an analyst at Canccord
Genuity in  Montreal .  “The main gist behind buying it is to get guaranteed
access to the refurbishment work,” Lynk said in a telephone
interview. “They’re still working on the design for third-
generation reactors while their competitors are well on their
way to completing similar if not bigger reactors in  China  and
they’ve even broken ground in  Georgia .”  Ontario’s Plans  Ontario wants to buy two CANDU reactors for its Darlington
plant along  Lake Ontario  east of Toronto. Brad Duguid,
provincial energy minister, expressed concern that Ottawa’s
efforts to find a buyer for AECL had delayed the reactor deal.  “Our hope is that the sale of the company would bring some
stability to the situation after the federal government has been
foot-dragging for almost two years now,” Duguid said in a
telephone interview.  Duguid also said the province expects Ottawa to help pay
for the multibillion-dollar reactors, as it did when it assisted
Newfoundland’s Churchill Falls hydroelectric station and
 Alberta ’s oil and  natural-gas projects.  No impact from the AECL sale was expected on the uranium
market, Amir Adnani, chief executive officer of  Corpus Christi ,
Texas-based  Uranium Energy Corp. (UEC) , a mining and processing
company, and Rob Gereghty, a spokesman for the Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan-based Cameco Corp., the world’s second-largest
uranium producer, said in telephone interviews.  The government also said today it would fund C$75 million
for completing the development of the enhanced CANDU 6 reactor.  The latest CANDU reactor to go into service was in 2007 in
Cernavoda,  Romania , said Robin Forbes, a spokeswoman for AECL.
Construction began in 2003. Another unit for the site is to be
completed by 2013.  Coolant Method  The CANDU reactor uses heavy water for a moderator and
coolant and natural uranium for fuel, which is unique, according
to the websites of AECL and the  Canadian Nuclear Safety
Commission . CANDU units also differ from reactors such as the
crippled ones at Fukushima Dai-Ichi in  Japan  in that their
radioactive steam doesn’t directly power turbines to produce
electricity.  Instead, the radioactive water is kept in a closed loop
that transfers heat to secondary loops that can be safely vented
to the atmosphere if a heat release is required. Also, the core
is surrounded by “a lot more water,” Forbes said.  The reactors have been criticized for producing more
radioactive waste than reactors that use enriched uranium, and
while they can be refueled without going offline, their
maintenance outages after a decade of operation can be more
expensive than anticipated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net ,
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Badertscher at 
 pbadertscher@bloomberg.net  