-- 
Canada’s Currency Climbs Most in 2011 as Inflation Rises, Commodities Gain

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-06-29T21:04:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/canada-s-dollar-advances-as-consumer-prices-rise-in-may-more-than-forecast.html
Canada ’s dollar climbed the most
since December versus its U.S. counterpart after consumer prices
rose more than forecast, prompting traders to ratchet up bets
the central bank will resume raising  interest rates .  The currency strengthened versus a majority of its 16 most-
traded peers as stocks and commodities rose after Greek
lawmakers approved a package of austerity measures amid a 48-
hour strike and protests. The gain cut the Canadian dollar’s
monthly loss to 0.1 percent. A government report tomorrow will
show the nation’s gross domestic product contracted in April,
economists predict.  “Things look better for the moment, but it’s far from
over,” said  David Love , a trader of interest-rate derivatives
at Le Groupe Jitney Inc. in  Montreal . “Tomorrow’s GDP will be
crucial, as will the ongoing crisis in Greece.”  The loonie, as the currency is also known for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 1.2 percent to
96.95 cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 98.12
cents yesterday. It gained the most on an intraday basis, 1.2
percent, since Dec. 2. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0315. The
loonie gained 0.1 percent for the quarter.  Canada’s government bonds dropped, pushing the yield on
Canada’s benchmark 10-year note up 10 basis points to 3.08
percent. It touched 3.10 percent, the highest level this month.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. The 3.25 percent
security due in June 2011 tumbled 85 cents to C$101.42.  Consumer Prices  The currency gained for a third day versus the greenback,
the longest winning streak in a month, as  Statistics Canada 
reported consumer prices climbed 3.7 percent in May from a year
earlier. It was the fastest pace since 2003 and exceeded all 24
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey of economists, whose median
projection was for a 3.3 percent increase, the same as in April.  The core inflation rate, which excludes eight volatile
items such as gasoline, accelerated to 1.8 percent from a year
earlier. Economists had forecast it would slow to 1.5 percent.  Government data due tomorrow will show Canada’s GDP
contracted 0.1 percent in April from the previous month,
according to the median of 22 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.
The report is due at 8:30 a.m. Ottawa time. The economy grew 0.3
percent in March.  “Any fear about rates that has crept into the market in
the aftermath of the CPI data may be tempered by the GDP data,”
said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in Toronto. “It’s expected
to be weak and underscore the headwinds facing the economy.”  Greek Plan  The euro rose versus the greenback, which fell against most
of its major peers, after Greece’s parliament passed Prime
Minister  George Papandreou ’s 78 billion euro ($112 billion)
package of budget cuts and state asset sales.  The measures were needed before the nation can tap a fifth
portion of last year’s rescue and win a second aid package from
the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund . Greek
lawmakers vote tomorrow on a bill to implement the plan.  “Contagion fear and social unrest will again have the
markets paring risk and directly affecting the loonie, again
pressurizing the currency after printing new highs after the CPI
data,” said  Dean Popplewell , head analyst in Toronto at the
online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp. “Short-term
speculators are looking to sell the Canadian dollar on these
 U.S. dollar  pullbacks.”  The  Bank of Canada  kept its benchmark overnight lending
rate at 1 percent on May 31, where it has been since September.
Policy makers are expected to raise the rate to 1.5 percent by
year-end, according to forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Rate Bets  December 2011 bankers’ acceptances, the most active
contract, yielded 1.47 percent, the most in two weeks, after
falling to 1.36 percent on June 24, the lowest closing price
since they started trading in December 2008. The yield on so-
called Baxes averages about 18 basis points above the central
bank’s overnight target, Bloomberg data since 1992 show.  “Today’s number was considerably above expectations,”
said Le Groupe Jitney’s Love. “That, combined with the
austerity measures in  Greece , has sent BAX contracts lower.”
The yield rises as the price falls.  While today’s CPI report gives the central bank “food for
thought,” much of the pressure appears to be seasonal and the
core inflation rate remains below the bank’s target of 2
percent, TD Securities’ Osborne said.  “There’s no urgency for the Bank of Canada at this
stage,” he said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.6 percent.
Crude oil for August delivery gained as much as 3.2 percent to
$95.84 a barrel in  New York , the highest level since June 15,
before trading at $95.10, up 2.4 percent. Oil is Canada’s
biggest export.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  