-- 
Chavez Speaks in 20-Minute Video With Castro to Dispel Health Concerns

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-06-29T17:32:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/chavez-reappears-in-images-with-cuba-s-castro-following-surgery.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
appeared in a video broadcast today on  state television 
alongside Cuba’s  Fidel Castro  and spoke publicly for the first
time since June 12, allaying rumors of his deteriorating health.  Chavez, 56, was shown dressed in a tracksuit with a
Venezuelan flag design as he spoke standing with Castro in a
garden or park in Havana, and indoors with one of his daughters
and Castro. A thinner Chavez was shown looking at a June 28 copy
of  Cuban newspaper Granma , the same paper that published the
last images of the leader June 18.  “These images should bring calm to the Venezuelan people
about the president’s health,” Information Minister Andres Izarra said yesterday after still images of the meeting were
shown. “Images speak more than 1,000 words.”  Venezuelan state television today broadcast 20 minutes of
both video and audio of Chavez meeting Castro yesterday. Chavez
spoke animatedly while standing and reading headlines from Cuban
newspapers and then sat in a rocking chair indoors
chatting with Castro about his military career and former
Chilean President Salvador Allende.  “Look at Fidel reading the headlines without glasses, I
almost need them, but am doing fine,” Chavez said.  Chavez, who has occupied Venezuelan airwaves during his 12
years in power with speeches that can stretch as long as six
hours, hadn’t spoken publicly since calling into the Telesur
television network on June 12, two days after being operated on
in Cuba to remove a pelvic abscess.  Lack of Information  Since undergoing surgery, the president’s seclusion and
lack of information about his health have raised questions about
whether he should be running  South America ’s largest oil
producer from Havana. Venezuela’s political opposition, which
wants to remove Chavez from power in next year’s elections, has
called on Jaua to replace him until he recovers. Jaua has ruled
out such a move.  “He’s recovering well and we support his right to take the
necessary time to mend,” Jaua said on state television
yesterday. “He hasn’t stopped performing his constitutional
duties.”  Chavez's Plans  Brazil ’s President  Dilma Rousseff  was told that Chavez will
return to Venezuela this weekend, columnist Ancelmo Gois wrote
in Rio de Janeiro-based newspaper  O Globo.  The Venezuelan leader
had to take morphine in  Ecuador  because of pain in his pelvis
caused by the abscess, Gois said. Tests in Cuba ruled out
cancer. His condition worsened as a result of a respiratory
infection aggravated by smoking while in  Havana , according to
Gois.  Chavez will participate in a summit of Latin American and
Caribbean heads of state beginning July 5 and coinciding with
the 200th anniversary of Venezuela’s independence from  Spain ,
Marco Aurelio Garcia, a foreign policy advisor to the Brazilian
president, told reporters today in Asuncion,  Paraguay .  Izarra said that Chavez is “active” and has been signing
extra spending credits as well as Foreign Ministry statements.  Market View  The yield on Venezuela’s benchmark 9.25 percent dollar
bonds due in 2027 fell 13 basis points to 13.03 percent at 1:05
p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co., the
lowest since January 18. The price of the bonds erased earlier
losses and rose 0.70 cent on the dollar to 74.70 cents.  The yield has declined 72 basis points, or 0.72 percentage
point, since Chavez underwent surgery. The yield closed at 14.33
percent on June 16.  The cost of protecting Venezuelan debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 24 basis points to
1,018 today, according to data compiled by CMA in  London , the
lowest since April 13.  Venezuela  CDSs have plunged 193 basis
points since June 20.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Rally  About half the recent rally in Venezuelan bonds is
explained by uncertainty about Chavez’s health and the
possibility of a change in government, RBS Securities Inc.’s
 Siobhan Morden  wrote in a note to clients today. An opposition
win in elections next year would cause Venezuela’s borrowing
costs to drop 500 basis points, or 5 percentage points, and
converge with  Argentina ’s, she said.  Fernando Soto Rojas, the leader of the National Assembly,
said June 26, “I would be the first to tell the country” if
Chavez had cancer. The lawmaker said Chavez should return to
Venezuela for the Independence Day celebration.  Chavez’s elder brother, Adan Chavez, who is a former
ambassador to Cuba and currently governor of his home state of
Barinas, has also said that the president would return to
Venezuela by July 4. The July 5 summit of Latin American leaders
is scheduled to take place on Margarita Island.  A June 25 report by El Nuevo Herald, the Spanish-language
sister newspaper of the Miami Herald, cited unidentified U.S.
intelligence officials as saying that Chavez was in a critical
state of health though faced no immediate threat of dying.  While Izarra said that planned events for the bicentennial
will continue, he didn’t specify whether Chavez will be back for
the celebration.  “Chavez is good, recovering well,” he said. “We’ve been
providing the necessary information regarding his condition even
as people say all kinds of things like he’s in a coma or can’t
get out of bed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  