-- 
Chelsea’s Villas-Boas Says He’s Aiming to Build Success Through Teamwork

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-06-29T10:10:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/chelsea-s-villas-boas-says-he-s-aiming-to-build-success-through-teamwork.html
Chelsea’s new manager Andre Villas- Boas shied away from emulating his former boss  Jose Mourinho 
when he called himself the “Group One” in a meeting with
reporters today in  London .  Villas-Boas was speaking at his official presentation to
the media at Stamford Bridge. Former Chelsea manager Mourinho
was renowned for calling himself a “Special One” when he
arrived at the Blues in 2004.  Villas-Boas was asked what title he’d like the media to
give him.  “The title -- I will wait for you guys to give it me when
I am successful. I hope I am and you can give me a good title,”
he said. “This is not a one-man show, this is about creating
empathy, ambition and motivation in everybody.  “Maybe I should be called ‘the Group One’ as I want to
group people together and be successful.”  The new manager today named former West Brom coach Roberto di Matteo as his top assistant. Di Matteo is a former Chelsea
player who scored in the first minute to help the Blues beat
Middlesbrough 2-0 in the 1997 F.A. Cup final  “If you see the technical staff in front of me, and my
appointment of Roberto, these are people who like the quality of
the game and have a philosophy. It’s not just a case of winning,
it’s a case of flair,” Villas-Boas said. “It should be an
entertaining game for the fans and that is what we will look to
do.”  Break Clause  Villas-Boas, 33, was named as the Premier League club’s
manager on June 22, a day after exercising a break clause in his
contract with Porto. His departure entailed a payment of 15
million euros ($21.6 million) to the Portuguese club, according
to media reports.  He received a three-year contract to replace  Carlo Ancelotti , who was ousted last month after Chelsea finished
second to Manchester United in the Premier League. The Blues
most recently won the league in 2005, 2006 and 2010 but have
never won  Europe ’s elite  Champions League , a trophy reputed to
be billionaire owner  Roman Abramovich ’s top priority.  Villas-Boas does have experience of European success. He
left Porto after leading the club to the Europa League title and
Portuguese league and cup trophies in his only season in charge.  After training to become a coach as a teenager, Villas-Boas
worked at hometown team Porto under Mourinho, then moved with
him to Chelsea and  Inter Milan .  Record at Porto  In 2009, he left Mourinho’s staff to coach Academica de
Coimbra in  Portugal  and took over at Porto prior to last season.
He led Porto to an undefeated record in winning the championship
by 21 points and then became the youngest coach to capture a
European title when Porto beat Braga 1-0 in the Europa League
final in May.  Chelsea won the Premier League and F.A. Cup in Ancelotti’s
first season as coach in 2009-10. Last season, the Blues posted
their lowest league points tally since Abramovich bought the
club in 2003 and lost to  Manchester United  in the Champions
League quarterfinals.  To contact the reporter on for this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  