-- 
Chelsea Meets $64 Million Neymar Clause With Four Rivals: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-06-29T10:42:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/chelsea-meets-64-million-neymar-clause-with-four-rivals-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Neymar Negotiations  Chelsea has been given permission to speak to Neymar after
offering Santos 40 million pounds ($64 million) for the
Brazilian forward, the Sun  reported .  Santos President Luis Alvaro de Oliveira Ribeiro said that
five clubs have agreed to meet the buy-out clause in the 19-
year-old’s contract, the Sun said. Chelsea owner  Roman Abramovich  now must see off the rival interest from Real Madrid,
Barcelona, Juventus and  Russia ’s Anzhi Makhachkala, the
newspaper added.  Wickham Move  Connor Wickham, the England under-21 striker, underwent a
medical exam and discussed personal terms with Sunderland last
night as he tries to complete a 13 million-pound move from
Ipswich, the  Daily Mail   reported .  Ipswich has accepted a down-payment of 8.1 million pounds,
which may rise by another 5 million pounds depending on goals,
appearances and European qualification, the newspaper said.
Sunderland manager Steve Bruce beat competition from Liverpool,
Arsenal and Tottenham to sign Wickham, the Mail added.  Drogba Deal  Chelsea will offer  Didier Drogba  a one-year contract
extension to deflect interest in the  Ivory Coast  striker from
Galatasaray and Marseille, the Guardian  reported .  Preparatory talks with Drogba’s representatives have been
held and formal negotiations are set to start before the player
returns for pre-season training next week, the Guardian said.  Mancini Wants Savic  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  is aiming to make
Partizan Belgrade defender Stefan Savic his first off-season
signing after bidding 6 million pounds for the Montenegro
international, the  Daily Telegraph   reported .  Partizan values Savic at 9 million pounds and the Serbian
champion is likely to hold out for that sum because of a sell-on
clause which entitles his former club, BSK Borca, to half of any
transfer fee, the newspaper added.  6-foot-5 Target  Inter Milan goalkeeper Emiliano Viviano is an 8 million-
pound target for Arsenal, the Sun  reported . Arsenal manager
Arsene Wenger will make his move for the 6-foot-5 Italian as
soon as he offloads Manuel Almunia, who lost his first-team
place after a series of mistakes last season, the Sun said.  Mata Stays  Wenger has been forced to broaden the scope of his transfer
targets after Spain midfielder Juan Mata said he’s happy to stay
at Valencia, the  Daily Express   reported .  Arsenal may push through a deal for Bolton defender Gary Cahill, with Denmark striker Nicklas Bendtner going the other
way to help match differing valuations, the Mail said. Ivory
Coast forward Gervinho, Argentine midfielder Ricardo Alvarez and
Chile midfielder Arturo Vidal are also wanted by Wenger, the
newspaper said.  Given for Villa?  Aston Villa manager  Alex McLeish  is intensifying his
efforts to sign a goalkeeper, with Shay Given among his
potential targets,  the Independent  reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  