-- 
Chelsea’s Villas-Boas May Upset Porto Fans With Player Raid on Former Club

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-29T23:01:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/chelsea-s-villas-boas-may-upset-porto-fans-with-player-raid-on-former-club.html
Fans of Andre Villas-Boas’s hometown
team Porto were already angered by his departure to Chelsea. Now
he’s prepared to crank up their animosity by taking some of the
best players with him.  Porto fans protested outside the 33-year-old’s home as he
considered leaving. He led the team to the Portuguese league
title without loss as well as the Europa League trophy in his
first season. Villas-Boas then activated a reported 15 million-
euro ($21.6 million) break clause to join the Premier League
club.  West London team Chelsea fired coach  Carlo Ancelotti  last
month after finishing second in the league behind  Manchester
United  and losing to United in the last eight of the  Champions
League . U.K. media have reported that Villas-Boas’s efforts to
freshen up the Blues’ roster will include moves for some of his
former players like midfielder Joao Moutinho and Radamel Falcao,
the Colombian striker who’s netted 73 goals in 85 games with
Porto. He’s also taking members of the coaching staff.  “I just have to make the best decisions for my actual
club,” Villas-Boas said at his first press conference at
Chelsea’s stadium yesterday, when asked if he was worried about
the reaction in  Portugal  should he come back for players.  “Porto players have been very successful last year,” he
said. “Most of them are in the market, but only by activating
release clauses because Porto is a club that sells very
expensively. It doesn’t want to sell, and is reluctant to sell,
but these are things that we will address.”  Villas-Boas describes Porto, a 25-time domestic league
winner, as “my club.” His father, a professor of chemical
engineering, signed him up as a club member when he was a two-
year-old.  Youngest Coach  After becoming the youngest coach to win a European trophy
with May’s 1-0 Europa League victory over  Braga , Villas-Boas
said he wanted to stay with Porto and “build something that I’m
proud of and to be able to add to this amazing start.’  Yesterday he said he could understand that his words
“increased the unfaithfulness of my move” in the fans’ eyes.  Porto President Jorge Nuno Pinto da Costa, who’d predicted
Villas-Boas would stay and described him as a true supporter,
said he wasn’t hurt by the coach’s departure.  “I’ve been in this for 30 years,” he said. “If I fell
from a seven-story building I might get hurt.”  The coach said he understood the reaction of the Porto
supporters.  “There’s nothing I can say that will take them from that
kind of frustration,” Villas-Boas said yesterday, dressed in a
navy-blue suit and open-collared shirt. “But they just need to
live in the comfort that  Porto  is a very, very successful club
and will continue winning, with me or without me.”  Ambition  Villas-Boas worked at Chelsea under  Jose Mourinho , the
Portuguese who brought the club its first championships for 50
years in 2005 and 2006 before quitting a year later. Ambition,
not the money being offered to him by billionaire owner  Roman Abramovich , was what convinced Villas-Boas to move, he said.  “There’s the suggestion that the move to Chelsea was based
on a very lucrative move and I can assure you that Porto were
able to beat their offer,” he said, without revealing his pay
package. “Porto were ready to make that extreme competitive
offer for me to stay and even so I took the challenge because I
like to be challenged in that way.”  At Chelsea, Villas-Boas, who’s never played professionally
and been coaching for only 22 months, will be managing some of
the biggest names in world soccer.  Control  At 33 he’s not much older than most of the players he’ll be
in charge of. Captain  John Terry  is just three years younger,
and  Frank Lampard  and  Didier Drogba  are the same age as their
new boss. Villas-Boas dismissed suggestions that his relative
youth could undermine his authority over the players.  “The players are responsible and are professional enough
to respect the position of the manager,” he said. “If they
lose that respect something is wrong because in the end you have
to be respectful. You have to show respect for what you do and
most of them are professionals, and I’ve never had any problems
of that kind.”  One man he may not be calling on in time of difficulty is
Mourinho. The two have reportedly not spoken since Villas-Boas
quit as Mourinho’s assistant at  Inter Milan  to coach then
bottom-of-the-table  Academica de Coimbra  in Portugal in 2009.  “There’s nothing new in there, no hard feelings, just two
busy people who move around in this busy football world,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on for this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  