-- 
China Inflation is 10-Year Problem: PBOC Adviser

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-29T05:01:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/china-inflation-is-10-year-problem-pboc-adviser.html
China ’s inflation, already at a
three-year high, is “most likely chronic” and will remain a
problem over the next decade,  Li Daokui , an academic adviser to
the People’s Bank of China said today.  The central bank, which has raised borrowing costs four
times since October, needs to increase  interest rates  further to
combat price gains, Li, a professor at  Tsinghua University , said
at a conference in Beijing. Li, 47, said he was giving his view
as an academic.  China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy, is
wrestling with price increases driven by higher food, fuel and
labor costs. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last week the government
may fail to meet its inflation target of 4 percent this year
even as efforts to stem gains have worked and that the overall
price level will drop steadily.  “High inflation pressure will be a long-term structural
issue for China, mainly driven by cost-push factors such as
rising wages, energy and resources prices,” said Chang Jian, a
Hong Kong-based economist with  Barclays Capital , who previously
worked at the  World Bank  and Hong Kong Monetary Authority. “The
nation may face a situation over the next decade where inflation
hovers around 4 to 5 percent a year while the economy grows at 7
to 8 percent.”  Inflation accelerated to 5.5 percent last month and may top
6 percent in June, banks including China International Capital
Corp and Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. say. The benchmark one-year
lending rate is 6.31 percent and the deposit rate is 3.25
percent.  Real Interest Rates  “China needs to correct the situation of negative real
interest rates so another three to four rate increases are
needed by the end of 2012 to change that,” Chang said. The
benchmark one-year deposit rate has lagged behind consumer-price
gains for more than a year.  The central bank has paused for 12 weeks in raising
interest rates, the longest gap since increases began in October,
as officials gauge the economy’s strength amid a slowdown in the
U.S. and a debt crisis in  Europe .  Inflation will be a long-term problem in China due to
changes in the structure of the economy, Li told reporters today.
Wages of “blue collar” workers have kept rising, pushing up
manufacturing costs, while prices of agricultural products are
climbing as farm workers don’t want to “feed pigs in the
countryside” and are migrating to the cities, he said.  There is widespread discontent in Chinese society with
market reforms, Li said today, citing  income inequality  as one
factor. Pressure to speed up political reform is “visibly
increasing” to improve transparency and accountability, and
fight corruption, Li said.  Reform will be increasingly driven by “grass roots” with
public opinion having more of an impact on policies than before,
he said. In the past, one could influence policymaking “if you
have a meeting with our premier” whereas now, leaders also
listen to voices from the internet, Li said.  --Victoria Ruan. With assistance from Zheng Lifei. Editors:
Nerys Avery, Ken McCallum  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  