-- 
China Yurun Gains in Hong Kong on Speculation Pork Producer Fell Too Much

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 
2011-06-29T02:53:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/china-yurun-gains-in-hong-kong-on-speculation-pork-producer-fell-too-much.html
China Yurun Food Group Ltd. (1068) , the
country’s second-biggest listed meat processor, rose the most
in three months in  Hong Kong  trading today as some investors
speculated a recent plunge has been excessive.  The pork producer’s stock climbed as much as 9.4 percent,
the biggest intraday gain since March 30, to HK$21.20 before
trading at HK$20.35 as of 10:42 a.m. in Hong Kong. The advance
made it the third-biggest gainer on the city’s Hang Seng
Composite Index.  Yurun slid 31 percent over the four days through yesterday,
wiping about $2 billion off its market value, amid speculation
 Muddy Waters  LLC may issue a negative report on the company.
The stock’s 14-day relative-strength index, which measures how
rapidly prices have advanced or declined, was at 22 percent
yesterday. Some investors see a reading of less than 30 as a
signal to buy.  “People realize the rumors are gradually fading away and
the company is doing a reasonable job in terms of the
fundamentals,” Jessie Guo, a Hong Kong-based analyst for
Jefferies Group Inc., said in a phone interview today. “The
valuation doesn’t reflect the fundamentals. That’s the main
reason for the share-price rebound,” said Guo, who recommends
buying the stock.  Short Selling  Yurun slid 5.9 percent to close at HK$19.38 yesterday, the
lowest level in 19 months after short-selling volume quadrupled
to 21.8 million shares on June 27 compared with June 21,
according to Bloomberg data. Yesterday’s short selling amounted
to 20.7 million shares, the data show.  Muddy Waters, the Hong Kong-based short-selling company
whose allegations of accounting irregularities sparked selloffs
at Chinese companies including  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , wouldn’t say
whether it was working on a report about Yurun.  “We take pains to keep our research activities
confidential, and a widespread market rumor would either
represent a significant failure on our part, or is false,”
Carson Block, a Muddy Waters founder, said yesterday in an e-
mail.  Yurun’s gross profit margin had a “slight decrease” in
the first five months of this year, according to a filing to
Hong Kong’s stock exchange yesterday. Sales gained
“significantly” in the period up to May 31 compared with 2010
on higher hog prices and greater slaughtering volume, it said.  The company’s profit has grown eightfold to HK$2.7 billion
in the five years through 2010 on sales that have increased
fivefold, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yurun is  China ’s second-biggest listed meat processor,
trailing Henan Shuanghui Investment & Development Co.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  