-- 
CI Faces Toronto-Dominion as TMX Investors Prepare for LSE Vote

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-06-29T15:29:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/ci-faces-toronto-dominion-as-tmx-prepares-for-vote-on-lse-s-takeover-offer.html
TMX Group Inc. (X) ’s biggest
shareholders are lining up on both sides before a vote tomorrow
that will determine whether London Stock Exchange Plc’s takeover
offer for the Toronto Stock Exchange operator will succeed.  CI Financial Corp.’s William Holland, whose firm is the
largest TMX shareholder, said he favors the LSE proposal.
Jarislowsky Fraser Ltd. and Calgary-based Mawer Investment
Management Ltd., the latter of which holds about 1.24 million
TMX shares for clients, said they support a competing offer from
a group of Canadian banks and pension funds. LSE needs two-
thirds support from voting TMX shareholders for its C$3.29
billion ($3.4 billion) friendly bid to advance.  “It is going to be a very close situation,” said Will Harrington, a New York-based merger arbitrage analyst at Wall
Street Access, a brokerage. “Obviously the vote threshold --
the 66 2/3 -- is something that can’t be ignored.”  TMX shareholders are being asked to choose between two
competing visions for the owner of the Toronto bourse and the
Montreal derivatives exchange. The  London  bid offers a chance to
team up with a global partner in a consolidating industry, while
the C$3.73 billion hostile bid from Maple Group Acquisition
Corp. ensures the markets will be run by Canada-based
executives.  Trading in TMX and LSE shares show investors are concerned
regulatory hurdles from the Canadian government and provincial
securities commissions may derail a merger even if it wins
shareholder support. The TMX vote begins at 10 a.m. at the
Design Exchange, the former equity trading floor on Bay Street
in Toronto’s financial district. LSE shareholders also vote on
the bid tomorrow in London.  Maple Edge  TMX fell 0.9 percent to C$43.15 in 11:12 a.m. trading on
the Toronto Stock Exchange, below the London offer of C$44.23 a
share before a special cash dividend of C$4 a share. The stock
also trades below the C$50-a-share cash and stock Maple bid.  Still, the backing by  Canada ’s biggest financial firms,
including  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce and  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , may give Maple an edge.  “I’m expecting a close vote, but I’m expecting the LSE
proposal to be voted down,” said Yemi Oshodi, managing director
of M&A and special situations trading at New York-based
WallachBeth Capital LLC. “The Maple Group bid is slightly
better and people are underestimating the nationalistic
implication of this transaction for Canada.”  “Canadians would prefer a Canadian solution to a Canadian
problem,” Oshodi said.  Louder Microphone  Although Maple Group investors and group spokesman Luc Bertrand control about 6.6 percent of TMX shares, Maple Group
may have additional influence beyond that, said  Ian Nakamoto ,
director of research at MacDougall, MacDougall and MacTier Inc.
in Toronto, who doesn’t own TMX shares.  “The banks tend to have a louder microphone than others,”
he said.  Alison Crosthwait, who analyses exchanges as director of
global trading research at Instinet LLC in Toronto, expects a
close vote in Maple’s favor.  “Maple is aggressive, they want to get this done and it’s
all about protecting themselves from what they perceive is a
lack of control of Canadian capital markets,” said Crosthwait,
whose firm competes with TMX. “It’s that aggressiveness and
determination on the part of Canadians to not let this deal
happen that I think will ultimately win out.”  Backers for the LSE bid include CI Financial’s Executive
Chairman Holland, whose funds hold more than 7 million TMX
shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Holland and 10
other executives from firms including Raymond James Ltd. and
Haywood Securities Inc. endorsed the LSE offer in a June 27
letter, arguing that the Maple bid stifles competition, and that
the bank ownership creates conflicts of interest.  ISS Support  LSE’s offer has also been endorsed by Institutional
Shareholder Services and Glass Lewis & Co., which advise mutual
and pension funds on proposals in shareholder meetings.  Maple Group supporters include Jarislowsky, chief executive
officer of Montreal-based Jarislowsky Fraser, and Calgary-based
Mawer Investment. Jarislowsky’s firm runs funds for Renaissance
Investments, which holds about 231,000 TMX shares, according to
Bloomberg data. Quebec Premier Jean Charest, whose provincial
regulator must approve any TMX sale, also backs the Maple
proposal, he told Bloomberg News.  “To us it looks like Maple’s proposed bid is a superior
offer,” Mawer’s  Jim Hall  said in a June 27 interview. “The
value is in the larger cash portion of it, actually, and you
still end up with ownership of an exchange and potentially some
other pieces.”  Executives from both sides claim they have the required
support to advance their deals.  “We are confident that shareholders will turn down the LSE
proposal and we are confident that we are going to be able to
get shareholders to accept our proposal,” Bertrand told
reporters yesterday in Toronto.  TMX and LSE CEOs are equally confident.  “We expect to win on June 30,” TMX CEO Thomas Kloet said
during a June 27 conference call.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  