-- 
Cisco Plans to Offer Cius Tablet Computer at the End of July

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-06-29T20:32:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/cisco-plans-to-offer-its-cius-tablet-computer-at-the-end-of-july.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s
largest maker of networking equipment, will begin selling its
new Cius tablet computer to businesses at the end of July,
hoping corporate users will drive adoption.  The device, which will have a 7-inch (18 centimeters)
screen, will be available to corporate customers only, Tom
Puorro, a senior director at Cisco, said at an event today at
the company’s headquarters in  San Jose , California. Thousands of
customers have been sampling the Android-based tablet computer,
which is designed to enable voice and video calls as well as
other social-networking tools, Puorro said. It will be priced at
about $750.  Cisco’s computer will compete with choices that include
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s Playbook. The
device also vies with efforts inside the company, which have
enabled its online meeting software Webex and Quad social
networking tool to work on the iPad.  Cisco says other tablets don’t have the “seamless
integration” of the Cius, which allows users to quickly toggle
between text, voice and video. The tablet computer will also
allow companies to connect it directly to their secure corporate
networks and tailor features.  “It’s not just e-mail, browsing and watching movies,”
Pourro said in a separate interview today. “It’s the real-time
collaboration tools that set it apart. You’re not going to get
the level of integration with others that you get with the
Cius.”  The Cius is Wi-Fi only and will be powered by Verizon
Communications Inc. and  AT&T Inc. (T)  A 4G version will come later,
the company said.  Cisco rose 21 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $15.34 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq trading. The shares are down 24 percent
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  