-- 
Citigroup Collides With Death Pursuing Emerging Market Debts in Indonesia

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M e l l o r   a n d   F e m i   A d i
-- 
2011-06-29T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/citigroup-collides-with-death-in-indonesia-emerging-market-debt.html
In life, Irzen Octa ranked among the
least significant of  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s 200 million customers. In
death, the cash-strapped small-businessman from Jakarta has come
to haunt the reputation of the world’s 8th-biggest bank.  At dawn on an overcast March morning, Octa, 49, left his
modest $60,000 row house on the western outskirts of the
Indonesian capital and rode off on his Yamaha motor scooter into
the frenetic traffic and equatorial heat. His destination: a
Citibank office in a smart downtown neighborhood known as the
Golden Triangle, where he was to discuss a 48 million rupiah
($5,500) principal debt on his Citibank platinum credit card,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its August issue.  After dropping his younger daughter at school, Octa walked
into Citibank’s credit card collection department on the fifth
floor of the Jamsostek tower just after 10 a.m. Four hours
later, he left the 25-story building slumped motionless in a
wheelchair -- a victim of what police allege was a violent
assault by debt collectors. Driven to a nearby hospital in a
Citibank car, Octa was pronounced dead on arrival.  There are starkly conflicting versions of what happened
inside the room, barely larger than a broom closet, where Octa
spent most of the time from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on March 29.  Octa’s widow is suing Citigroup for $348 million, claiming
her husband died inside Citibank’s offices after being beaten by
debt collectors trying to extract the equivalent of $12,000 from
him, including accrued interest.  Back in the Black  The case comes as Citigroup bets its future on booming
emerging markets like Indonesia. The New York-based bank, which
lost $27.7 billion in 2008, was saved from collapse during the
global financial crisis only by a $45 billion U.S. government
bailout.  Since then, Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  has
focused on developing economies, which are growing on average at
three times the pace of Western nations, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  Last year, Citi’s strategy helped the bank surge back into
the black as emerging economies delivered more than half of its
$10.6 billion profit. Operating in more than 100 countries,
Citigroup is now the world’s 16th-strongest bank, according to
rankings published in Bloomberg Markets.  Indonesia, the world’s fourth-biggest country, with a
population of 240 million and an economy that grew at 6.46
percent in the first quarter of 2011, is a prime target of
Pandit’s strategy. Indonesians are getting richer faster than
any other Asia-Pacific national group, according to a 2010
Credit Suisse Group AG  report , which said average wealth per
adult had jumped fivefold in 10 years to $12,212.  Internal Investigation  As the Octa case suggests, winning business in countries
such as  Indonesia  exposes Citigroup -- and indeed other
multinational banks -- to risks that would seem beyond the pale
in the West. In Indonesia, it can be difficult to recover debts
through the courts, so Citibank outsourced debt collection to
two Indonesian companies.  Three collectors met with Octa in the Citibank office.
Their attorney says they acknowledge that one of them “tapped”
Octa on the shoulder, kicked his chair and thumped a table, but
they claim the businessman died of natural causes. They say that
 brain damage  identified in an autopsy was caused by a stroke and
that Octa was still alive when he was taken to the hospital.  Shariq Mukhtar, who was Citigroup’s Indonesia country head
at the time, said on April 5 that an internal investigation
found no evidence Octa was physically harmed in its offices. The
police, however, have jailed the debt collectors and say they
may charge some of them with causing death by neglect.  Banning Citigroup  Citigroup’s travails didn’t begin or end with Octa’s death.
Days earlier, the bank was shaken by the disclosure of another
lurid incident.  On March 23, police arrested a female relationship manager
in Citibank’s Citigold wealth-management department. Inong
Malinda Dee, 47, who oversaw accounts worth $14 million and
drove to work in a red Ferrari, was charged with embezzling $1.9
million from three clients in 2009 and 2010.  The alleged offenses came to light on March 11 when one of
the 236 customers Malinda looked after complained about missing
funds to Citigroup, which in turn called in the police.  When they raided two homes owned by Malinda, detectives
seized two Ferraris, a Hummer and a Mercedes-Benz 350 coupe,
which have now transformed a police vehicle compound into
something akin to a luxury automobile showroom. She denies the
charges against her:  money laundering , falsifying bank documents
and violating banking laws.  Lured to Indonesia  In May, the central bank, Bank Indonesia, banned Citigroup
from issuing new credit cards for two years and from taking on
new wealth-management clients for a year. The bank was concerned
enough to fly its vice chairman, Lewis Kaden, from  New York  to
Jakarta and back to express regret. “Both matters are being
treated with the utmost seriousness by our senior management,”
he said in a statement on May 2.  Though Kaden didn’t appear in public during his 48-hour
stay, he did meet with government officials to reinforce that
message, according to Richard Tesvich, a Hong Kong-based
Citigroup spokesman.  Five weeks later, Citigroup disclosed to staff in a memo
obtained by Bloomberg that it was replacing Mukhtar, its country
head since 2005, with locally born Tigor M. Siahaan, 40, who had
previously been in charge of the bank’s institutional business.  Citigroup’s rivals haven’t escaped the fallout. On April
29, the central bank told another 23 local and international
lenders, including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , to stop accepting new wealth-management
customers for a month while the banks improved internal
supervision and customer protection practices.  ‘The Grace of God’  Citibank and its competitors have been lured to Indonesia
by the country’s barely tapped potential. While only 7 million
Indonesians use credit cards, the number of middle-class
consumers has swelled by 50 million to 131 million during the
past eight years, the  World Bank   reported  in March.  Growth is the upside for the banks. The downside: the
sometimes unconventional business practices. Most banks, rather
than employ their own debt collectors, follow local practice and
hire Indonesian companies to do the work, says Jim Castle, a
governor of the American Chamber of Commerce in Indonesia. “It’s
not just Citibank,” Castle says. “Every banker I have talked to
who has a credit card business says, ‘There but for the grace of
God go I.’”  ‘No Excuse’  That’s no excuse, says Halim Alamsyah, deputy governor of
 Bank Indonesia . He says he was taken aback by both Citi
scandals. “It shocked me, and it shocked the board,” Alamsyah
says, referring to his fellow  central bank  governors. “This is
Citibank we are discussing -- the world-class bank.”  Citigroup’s troubles in Indonesia are also cause for alarm
for investors, says David Hilder, a banking analyst at  Bala
Cynwyd , Pennsylvania-based Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP,
which owns Citigroup shares worth $245 million, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup, which CEO Pandit proudly described in the 2010
 annual report  as “America’s only truly global bank,” is
increasingly dependent on far-flung markets. Last year, Citi’s
profits from consumer-banking units in  Asia  jumped 52 percent to
$2.17 billion compared with a 17 percent drop at the U.S.
business. On its website, Citigroup boasts that one-third of all
Asian billionaires outside  Japan  are among its private-banking
clients.  Stumbling in Foreign Markets  In Indonesia, Citibank has  assets  of $6.5 billion, ranks as
the largest foreign bank and owns nearly a third of the credit
card market. The bank’s net profit from all operations in
Indonesia has doubled in five years, to $254 million in 2010.
For all of its successes, Citigroup has a history of stumbling
in foreign markets, most recently in  India , where Citigroup said
in January it would compensate investors who fell victim to a
$67 million fraud allegedly carried out by a local employee.  Such missteps suggest that Citigroup’s burgeoning overseas
business has far outpaced its back-office capabilities,
Susquehanna’s Hilder says. Addressing that weakness could dampen
the earnings Citi expects out of markets such as Indonesia, he
says. “In turn, that could weaken the argument that Citi stock
should enjoy a premium multiple because of its exposure to
emerging markets,” Hilder says.  Citicorp’s Indonesian debt-collection system may be a case
in point. Only after Octa’s death did Citigroup announce that it
would hire 1,400 new staff to bring debt collection in-house.  Citigroup should operate in Indonesia as it does in the
U.S., says Otto Kaligis, a Jakarta attorney who once represented
the dictator Suharto and is suing the bank on behalf of Octa’s
widow, Esi Ronaldi. “In America, debt collectors can’t use
brutality because it is against human rights,” Kaligis says.
“The same applies here in Indonesia.”  A Compassionate Offer  Citigroup declines to comment on the Ronaldi lawsuit. It
says it has strict rules forbidding debt collectors from using
violence or threats. The bank’s policy, it says, is to work with
customers to help them through difficult times; in Octa’s case,
that meant offering to deduct 40 percent from the principal
debt.  Citi says it has made a compassionate offer to the family
through the Indonesian Red Cross to set up a fund for the Octa
children’s education and the family’s living expenses. “We are
deeply saddened,” Kaden said in his statement. “I can assure you
that it has always been our intention to handle this very sad
matter with genuine compassion for Octa’s family, and if we have
done anything to suggest otherwise, we sincerely apologize.”  Coup and Counter-Coup  The stories of Octa, Malinda and Citigroup’s Indonesian
adventure are entwined with the country’s turbulent history.
Citigroup opened its first branch in 1968, a year after Suharto
became president on the back of a coup and countercoup that
claimed some 500,000 lives. As the economy grew, so did Citi’s
position. From 1987, the Indonesian economy expanded at the rate
of 7 percent annually for a decade. In 1989, two years into the
surge, Citigroup became the first foreign bank to issue credit
cards in Indonesia.  Citibank stood its ground even when the good times came to
a halt in 1997 as the Asian financial crisis devastated
Indonesia’s economy and mass riots left Jakarta ablaze. While
local banks collapsed, Citi opened new branches. As the turmoil
receded, Indonesia began to grow again, spawning thousands of
small-time entrepreneurs.  Among them was Irzen Octa, who had come to Jakarta from
Padang on the island of Sumatra. In 1994, Octa, who ran a
courier and import-export business, married a Padang woman, Esi
Ronaldi. At first, Ronaldi worked for her husband. After their
daughters, Grace and Citra, now 16 and 15, were born, she became
a full-time housewife.  Status Symbol  Ronaldi, 48, who wears the hijab favored by many women in
predominantly Muslim Indonesia, says her husband never told her
how much he earned. Every month, Octa gave her about $580 for
housekeeping and school fees.  There were few obvious luxuries. The highlight of the
children’s week was to sleep in their parents’ room at the
weekend. “They were proud of their father, and they want him
back,” Ronaldi says, speaking Indonesian and weeping softly as
she clutches a portrait of her husband. “He was a responsible
and modest man.”  Octa did possess one status symbol: a Citibank platinum
credit card. According to his wife, Octa had been a cardholder
as long as she can remember, graduating from silver to gold to
platinum status.  Knock on the Door  With the onset of the 2008 financial crisis, Octa’s
business took a turn for the worse. Ronaldi also says he was
distracted from his business by his politics; as democracy took
root in Indonesia, he had helped to found a small political
party, the National Unity Party.  Late one night last October, Octa answered a knock on the
door to find six debt collectors there, Ronaldi says. “I was so
afraid, but Octa said to me to be calm,” she says. “They used
impolite words, and they shouted.” To Ronaldi’s embarrassment,
they spent the night on the porch. “My neighbors heard all the
details,” she says.  Seven months later, on March 28, as the family was
preparing for evening prayers, she says, two more debt
collectors arrived at the house. Ronaldi says her husband told
her he had been offered a deal to repay only part of the
arrears. He would visit the collection center the next day to
settle his debts.  The next morning, Octa called the family together. “Let’s
pray I will sign a contract for a project today,” he said. He
then straddled the Yamaha and, with Citra on the back seat, rode
off. It was the last time his wife saw him alive.  Commuting in a Ferrari  Around that time, Malinda was already making headlines. The
daughter of an official in Indonesia’s transportation
department, she studied management at Jakarta’s private Trisakti
University, joined Citigroup as a teller in 1989 and was
promoted to Citigold Executive in 2001. Citigroup says her
annual salary was in the $42,000-to-$98,000 range, excluding
incentives. According to her lawyer, Batara Simbolon, Malinda
earned more than $200,000 with bonuses, had outside business
interests and had total assets of $7 million.  Until her photos were splashed across the tabloid pages,
Malinda’s lifestyle didn’t attract undue attention at the bank.
She owned a condominium next to the Ritz-Carlton Hotel and was
building a four-story house in an upmarket suburb. Testifying
before a parliamentary committee inquiry into the Octa and
Malinda scandals, Citibank country chief Mukhtar said that while
he knew Malinda came to work in a Ferrari, he didn’t investigate
because her husband worked for a car dealership.  Designer Wardrobe  In 2009, her lawyer says, Malinda split from her husband
and married Andhika Gumilang, a 22-year-old actor to whom she
gave a Hummer. According to police, that was the year Malinda
began her allegedly fraudulent activities.  Having swapped her designer wardrobe for an orange prison
uniform, Malinda maintains her innocence and says she’s been
betrayed by her former employers. “She feels she was stabbed in
the back by Citibank,” her lawyer says. In May, she was
transferred to a police hospital ward after her  blood pressure 
soared to 250/150 and she suffered complications caused by
silicone breast implants, says Ibnu Hadjar, chief of medical
services at the Indonesia Police Hospital.  As the various investigations moved forward, Citigroup
executives sought to minimize the impact of the controversies
swirling around them. New country chief Siahaan argues that more
than half of Citigroup’s Indonesian earnings come from its
institutional business and will not be affected by the
sanctions.  Shock to the System  He may have a point. Citigroup jumped from sixth to third
among underwriters of Indonesian bonds in 2010, according to
Bloomberg data. Citigroup has underwritten share offerings this
year for PT Bank Mandiri and PT Garuda Indonesia, the country’s
biggest airline, compared with just one offering in 2009 and
2010 combined. In May, Citigroup underwrote a $1 billion  bond
issue  for PT Pertamina, Indonesia’s state-owned oil company.  Citigroup seems determined to ride out the latest crisis
just as it did when Jakarta was burning 13 years ago. “Whenever
there’s a crisis or a shock to the system, not only do we stay,
we keep on investing,” Siahaan says.  The difference now is that Citigroup is far more dependent
on markets such as Indonesia than it was in 1998. And with a
grieving widow seeking damages in one court, debt collectors set
to go on trial in another and a cosmetic surgery-enhanced,
Ferrari-driving wealth manager in the dock in a third, it may
find that a much more difficult task.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Mellor in Sydney at 
 wmellor@bloomberg.net . Femi Adi In Jakarta at   fadi1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net  