-- 
Citigroup in Settlement With Lehman Europe Over $2.5 Billion in Assets

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-29T16:05:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/citigroup-in-settlement-with-lehman-europe-over-2-5-billion-in-assets.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Lehman Brothers
International Europe reached a settlement over assets valued at
more than $2.5 billion that were held for the collapsed
investment bank by Citigroup in a number of countries.  Citigroup agreed to immediately begin transferring assets
held in custody for LBIE, which it kept while determining how it
was affected by Lehman’s collapse,  PricewaterhouseCoopers ,
Lehman’s U.K. administrator, said in a statement. Both parties
will drop all claims against each other, PwC said.  “This is by far the largest single deal we have undertaken
and easily the most complex to negotiate and then structure,
given the sheer scale of the legacy relationship between
Citigroup and LBIE,” Paul Copley, a PwC restructuring partner
who led the negotiations, said in the statement.  Before going into administration, LBIE and New York-based
Citigroup entered into “a large volume” of agreements related
to over-the-counter derivatives, stock lending, repurchase
transactions, prime brokerage and trading arrangements, both on
behalf of the banks and for third parties, LBIE said.  LBIE’s former parent company,  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ) , collapsed in September 2008, filing the largest bankruptcy
in U.S. history. London-based LBIE is in administration in the
U.K. Citigroup and LBIE have “taken steps” to return assets to
clients that were held by Citigroup during the administration,
according to the statement.  “We have worked closely with the administrators of LBIE
and their team for many months to ensure that the arrangements
between Citigroup and LBIE were resolved amicably and in a
manner which fairly reflected the interests of both parties,”
Citigroup spokesman Jeffrey French said in an e-mailed
statement.  Lehman Brothers Holdings said in a court filing in  New York 
today that it reached a deal with bondholders, led by hedge fund
Paulson & Co., and derivatives creditors including Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley on a $65 billion liquidation plan.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 