-- 
CJ CheilJedang Falls in Seoul After Beating Posco to Korea Express Stake

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-06-29T09:18:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/cj-cheiljedang-falls-after-beating-posco-to-korea-express-stake.html
CJ CheilJedang Corp. (097950) , South Korea’s
largest foodmaker by market value, dropped to a two-month low in
Seoul trading after being named preferred bidder for a stake in
Korea Express Co., the nation’s biggest logistics company.  The foodmaker was the worst performer on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index, after falling 6.4 percent to its lowest since
April 28. Korea Express Co. dropped 5.9 percent to 104,500 won.  CJ Cheiljedang and  CJ Corp. (001040)  are set to buy about 40 percent
of Korea Express after beating out a rival offer from a Posco-
Samsung Group venture. The winners bid about 2 trillion won
($1.86 billion), about double the stake’s market value, Korea
Economic Daily reported, without saying how it got the
information.  “There are concerns that CJ CheilJedang is paying too high
a price,” said Shin Ji Yoon, an analyst at KTB Securities in
 Seoul . “There are also doubts about how much the acquisition
will help Korea Express build up its business.”  CJ Cheiljedang declined to 234,000 won at the 3 p.m. close
in Seoul trading. CJ Corp. gained 0.6 percent to 73,400 won.  CJ Group made a “reasonable” offer for the Korea Express
stake, CJ Corp. Chief Executive Officer Lee Gwan Hun told
reporters in Seoul today, without elaboration.  The group plans to grow Korea Express’s sales to 20
trillion won by 2020, it said in a statement. The Seoul-based
logistics company posted sales of 2.1 trillion won last year.  “There is no need to worry about our funding plans,” Lee
said. “We see no problem raising the money.”  Express Network  Korea Express has terminals in  South Korea ’s biggest ports,
10,000 express-delivery outlets and more than 5,000 trucks,
according to its website. Its market value was $2.21 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CJ Group will use Samsung Life Insurance Co. shares and
other non-core assets to help fund the acquisition, Seong Yong
Jun, executive vice president of CJ Corp., told reporters.
Possible options include the sale of bonds that could be
exchanged for the life insurer’s shares, he said.  “We are considering all options to minimize any negative
impact this may have on Samsung Life shares,” Seong said. CJ
CheilJedang and CJ Corp. own a combined 5.5 percent of Samsung
Life, South Korea’s biggest life insurer.  CJ Corp. and CJ CheilJedang will buy the Korea Express
stake from  Asiana Airlines (020560)  Inc. and Daewoo Engineering &
Construction Co. A preliminary agreement will be signed next
month, sale arranger  Korea Development Bank  said yesterday.  Other CJ Group investments include a TV shopping network,
an animal-feed maker, a cinema chain and Korean outlets for ice-
cream seller Cold Stone Creamery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  