-- 
Bill Clinton Says U.S. Lacks Planning Needed for Global Success

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-06-30T15:12:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/clinton-calls-for-more-lending-by-banks-to-spur-u-s-economy.html
Former President  Bill Clinton ,
opening a conference on job creation, said the U.S. lacks the
long-term budgeting and planning needed to be as successful as
possible on the global stage.  “We’ve gotten ourselves in a position where we’re spending
too much money on today and yesterday and not money enough on
tomorrow,” he said yesterday during the initial panel
discussion at the  Clinton Global Initiative ’s two-day gathering
in Chicago. “We’re borrowing too much, so that once the economy
picks up, we’re creating tomorrow’s problem.”  Clinton said the nation must find a better mix for the
portions of the U.S. gross domestic product represented by
federal spending and taxes.  “We can’t afford to spend 25 percent of GDP on government
expenditures,” he said. “I don’t think we can afford to tax at
only 15 percent of GDP, either, which is about where we are.”  He called for a 10-year plan that would allow Americans to
have a better sense of “what we think would be a competitive
level of revenues and a competitive level of expenditures.”  Clinton spoke as President  Barack Obama  and congressional
Republican leaders remain at odds on how to reduce the deficit
and clear the way for an agreement to raise the nation’s
borrowing limit, now $14.3 trillion. The Treasury Department has
said it has until Aug. 2 before its ability to pay U.S. debt
obligations runs out.  ‘Painful Cuts’  At a White House news conference yesterday, Obama urged the
Republicans to set aside their rejection of tax increases as
part of a deficit reduction plan. Democrats are willing to
accept some “painful cuts” to favored programs, and
Republicans must concede that some taxes may have to be raised,
he said.  Clinton urged greater lending to help the  U.S. economy .
“We continue to struggle with this economy and the low rate of
business formation and  job creation ,” he said.  “The banks of America now have well over $2 trillion in
cash not committed to loans,” he said. “There is nowhere near
$2 trillion in loan demand out there now, but there’s more than
is presently being satisfied.”  The recession in the U.S. officially lasted from December
2007 to June 2009. During that period, the world’s largest
economy shrank 4.1 percent, the Commerce Department reported
last year.  Unemployment Benefits   More Americans than forecast filed applications for
unemployment benefits last week, showing little progress in the
labor market.  Jobless claims fell by 1,000 to 428,000 in the week ended
June 25, according to Labor Department figures released today.  Clinton told CNBC today that one way to reduce the
 unemployment rate  of about 9 percent would be to help employers
find and train workers for the 3 million job openings that are
being advertised.  Job vacancies are being filled at half the rate of previous
recessions, he said.  By assisting companies, “we could hire another couple
million people,” Clinton said. “That would lower the
unemployment rate, increase the confidence rate and get
investment going.”  Clinton also urged that financing be provided to help pay
unemployed construction workers to upgrade buildings to make
them more energy efficient.  Obama Re-Election Chances  The unemployment rate is likely to be better on Election
Day, which will be among the factors ensuring Obama another four
years in the White House, Clinton told ABC News in article
 posted  online today.  “I’ll be surprised if he’s not re-elected,” he said.  Clinton praised several Republican presidential contenders
such as  Jon Huntsman , describing the former Utah governor as
“conservative, but non-ideological, practical.”  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney is a better
campaigner than he was four years ago, and Minnesota
Representative  Michele Bachmann  has done well because “she
comes across as a real person,” Clinton told ABC News.  More than 750 business and government leaders are attending
Clinton’s conference at a  Chicago  hotel, along with three
members of Obama’s cabinet, Clinton said. They are Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner , Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack
and Energy Secretary Steven Chu.  Global Initiative  The conference marks the first time the former president
has held such a gathering focused solely on the U.S. He
established the Clinton Global Initiative in 2005, and the group
says that over the years it has received investment commitments
worth $63 billion that already have helped 300 million people in
180 countries.  Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , Obama’s former White House
chief of staff and an aide during Clinton’s administration, made
a pitch for corporations to consider his city for expansion.  “If you see us willing to shape our future with a sense of
confidence, you’ll have the confidence then to invest in our
city,” he said. “We in the public sector, we don’t create
jobs. We create the conditions so that you can invest and create
the jobs in our city.”  Emanuel said he plans to host a conference in Chicago
focused on continuing the city’s commitment to the aviation
industry. Along with having two international airports, O’Hare
and Midway, Chicago is the headquarters for  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)   After Labor Day  After Emanuel made his remarks, spokeswoman Tarrah Cooper
said details are being worked out for the conference, which will
be held sometime after Labor Day.  Clinton offered praise for Emanuel, elected in February to
succeed  Richard M. Daley , who retired after serving as Chicago’s
mayor for 22 years.  “When he worked for me in the White House, he used to
remind everybody that over the long run the best politics is
good policy,” Clinton said. “He was utterly obsessed with
finding every good idea then being implemented in the  United
States  or around the world.”  Emanuel worked for Clinton as a political director and
senior adviser.  “Obviously, since our personal relationship goes back 20
years, I have a vested interest on bragging on him, and you are
entitled to discount some of it, but I predict to you that his
tenure as mayor of Chicago will be one of the most brilliant
chapters in this city’s long and storied history,” Clinton
said. “And it’s altogether fitting because from the first day I
met him, Rahm told me that Chicago should be the capital of the
world.”  More Incentives  Appearing on the conference’s first panel, Mississippi
Governor  Haley Barbour  called for more incentives to create
training programs that teach practical skills.  “We have got to stop stigmatizing skills training and trades
in the United States,” said Barbour, who in April ruled out
running for the 2012 Republican presidential nomination.  Barbour also called for deficit reduction and a smaller
federal government.  “That is a huge barrier to employment,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  