-- 
Cobalt Technologies Grabs Cheap Waste to Break into Vehicle Fuels

-- B y   K e n   S t i e r
-- 
2011-06-29T20:43:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/cobalt-technologies-grabs-cheap-waste-to-break-into-vehicle-fuels.html
For biofuels startup  Cobalt Technologies , the quest to replace
petroleum has led to sugary waste water from Decorative Panels International, a wood
paneling manufacturer in the small town of Alpena in northern Michigan.  Mountain View 
(Calif.)-based Cobalt and its partner, biorefinery consulting firm  American Process  in
Atlanta, are building an industrial-scale cellulosic refinery -- one of the world’s first -- on
Decorative Panels’s campus. When it’s complete, they will use the paneling byproduct --
which Decorative Panels pays American Process to take -- to produce petroleum-free
fuels.  To break into the U.S. vehicle fuel market, low-cost feedstock is essential. Highly
efficient U.S. petroleum refineries provide some of the world’s cheapest gasoline. That’s
why 38-employee Cobalt -- which aims to sell bio-butanol, a solvent that can serve as a
higher-energy-density fuel than ethanol -- plans to use Decorative Panels’s waste, as
well as agricultural and forestry wastes: They average $60 to $80 per ton, vs. $200 to
$400 per ton for corn and other traditional feedstocks.  Before tackling fuels, Cobalt Chief Executive Officer Rick Wilson is targeting the
chemicals market, where prices are several dollars higher per gallon than in the U.S.
transportation-fuels market. Butanol is a more complex molecule than ethanol and can
serve as a building block to a wide array of industrial chemicals. “The way to fuels is
chemicals; your first plants you focus on going after [are] chemicals, high value product,
and as you build plants and the costs come down, then you look at entering the fuels
market,” says Wilson, previously  BP’s (BP)  vice-president of global derivatives, where
he was responsible for its $3.5 billion petrochemical business, later spun out as Ineos.
“What you are seeing in all these recent IPOs is that the companies that are successful
are the ones that have figured this out,” he adds, referring to a string of public launches,
including  GEVO (GEVO) ,  Amyris (AMRS) ,  Solazyme (SZYM) , and  KiOR (KIOR) .  Cobalt, which has raised $55 million in  venture capital  since it started up in 2006,
operates a 5,000-gallon-a-year pilot plant adjoining its Silicon Valley headquarters. The
company is already selling samples and performing contract research, earning revenue
that Chief Financial Officer Steven K. Shevick expects to exceed $2 million this year. He
says that the U.S. Navy, currently testing Cobalt’s butanol as  jet fuel , is a particularly
promising customer because of its aggressive goal of operating on 50 percent
renewables by 2020.  “NOTHING WORKS THE FIRST TIME”  Reaching the broader civilian market requires performance equaling that of petroleum-
based butanol at no higher cost. That’s where the Alpena plant, which Wilson expects to
be operational by the second quarter of 2012, comes in. It’s a demonstration plant
meant to be capable of producing 470,000 gallons of butanol a year. “You build a plant
that size to figure out what can go wrong as you scale up -- nothing works the first time -
- and it is a lot cheaper to fix things at that scale than at a 10-million-gallon scale,”
explains Shevick. Cobalt’s investment in the refinery is less than $10 million. American
Process is picking up the larger chunk; the rest is covered by a $18 million grant from
the Energy Dept. and a $4 million grant from the State of  Michigan .  The absence of a tax credit for biochemicals -- as there is for biofuels -- could slow the
sector’s development, notes Michael McAdams, executive director of the trade group
Advanced Biofuels Assn., especially if substantial amounts of biochemicals hit the
market about the same time. Government mandates and tax credits have been a boon
to advanced biofuels -- now targeted to supply 2 billion gallons next year -- four years
after the supports were put in place. Says McAdams: “It took the ethanol industry 20
years to deliver the first 2 billion gallons … that’s a hell of an achievement [for biofuels].”  Cobalt’s Shevick says it is in discussions with large makers of paints and coatings, a $7
billion market in the U.S. Wilson notes these are just the first targets. “I am expecting to
see a transformation of the chemicals market from the genesis of these efforts around
biofuels … they will essentially replace petroleum-based chemicals first, and it’s going to
be monstrous -- I mean you are going after a $1 trillion market,” he says. Jim Lane,
editor of daily newsletter Biofuels Digest, is also enthusiastic. If any of these new
alternatives succeeds in diverting a meaningful slice of the chemical or fuels markets --
as Standard Oil did -- he says: “One of these guys is going to be a Rockefeller.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Ken Stier at  kenstier@earthlink.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  