-- 
Coca-Cola Femsa Buys Mexico Bottler for $555 Million Stock

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-06-29T20:51:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/coca-cola-femsa-to-acquire-grupo-tampico-s-bottling-operations.html
Coca-Cola Femsa SAB agreed to pay
6.55 billion pesos ($555 million) in stock for the Coke bottling
operations of Grupo Tampico SA, marking the company’s first all-
share transaction.  Mexico ’s largest soft-drink bottler will give closely held
Grupo Tampico 63.5 million newly issued Coca-Cola Femsa shares
valued at 103.20 pesos each, it said yesterday in a  statement .
Mexico City-based Coca-Cola Femsa will also assume 2.75 million
pesos in net debt. The stock fell the most in two months.  The transaction would be Coca-Cola Femsa’s largest since
2003 and follows a 27.7 billion-peso share merger of Mexico’s
second- and third-largest bottlers this year to form Arca
Continental SAB. Using shares instead of cash may help persuade
more small bottlers to be acquired, Chief Financial Officer
Hector Trevino said in a telephone interview yesterday.  “There are a lot of bottlers in Mexico and  Latin America 
that don’t want to get out of the business,” Trevino said. “On
the other hand, they are small and they see the advantages of
having bigger scale and geographic diversification.”  Coca-Cola Femsa fell 93 centavos, or 0.8 percent, to 109.01
pesos at 4 p.m. New York time in Mexico City trading, the
biggest decline since April 26. The shares have gained 6.7
percent this year, compared with a 27 percent advance for
Monterrey, Mexico-based Arca Continental.  Grupo Tampico Outlook  Grupo Tampico expects revenue of 4.4 billion pesos and
shipments of 154 million unit cases in 2011. Coca-Cola Femsa had
2010 revenue of 103 billion pesos. Tampico-based Grupo Tampico,
in Tamaulipas state, will have earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization -- a measure of  cash flow  known as
Ebitda -- of 967 million pesos in 2011.  “We believe it’s a geographical area of the country that
will have important growth and we have plans to continue growing
the business,” Trevino said.  The acquisition boosts Coca-Cola Femsa’s leading position
in the Mexican beverage market, Chief Executive Officer Carlos Salazar said today in a conference call. Trevino told analysts
the deal may close by the end of next quarter, and will require
approval from Mexican regulators as well as from the board of
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , which owns almost a third of Coca-Cola Femsa.  Annual synergies should reach 180 million pesos to 220
million pesos from the Grupo Tampico deal in the next 24 months,
Trevino said today. He said in the interview that using cash to
pay off the bottler’s debt is an option.  Accretive to Earnings  The acquisition will be accretive to earnings in a year to
18 months, said Jose Castro, chief of  investor relations , in a
telephone interview.  After purchasing Panamerican Beverages Inc. for $3.6
billion in 2003, Coca-Cola Femsa hadn’t struck a deal greater
than $100 million in three years. Investors such as Jose Miguel Garaicochea, who helps manage about $1 billion for a Banco
Santander SA unit in Mexico City, had said last month that the
company should consider acquisitions.  With the creation of new shares to pay for Grupo Tampico,
Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB’s ownership of Coca-Cola Femsa
will drop to 51.9 percent from 53.7 percent now and Coca-Cola
Co.’s ownership will decline to 30.6 percent from 31.6 percent.
The amount of shares traded publicly will increase to 17.5
percent from 14.7 percent, Trevino said.  The owners of Grupo Tampico will gain a seat on Coca-Cola
Femsa’s board, which will be expanded to 19 seats from 18.  Grupo Tampico became the first Coca-Cola bottler in Mexico
in 1912, according to the company  website . It has 25
distribution centers in six Mexican states, including
Tamaulipas, San Luis Potosi and Veracruz.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  