-- 
Confucius Town Gets Makeover From Bullet-Train Philosophy

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-30T09:01:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/confucius-hometown-seeks-economic-boost-tourists-as-bullet-train-arrives.html
China’s newest high-speed railway is
transforming the rural town where the philosopher Confucius was
born more than 2,500 years ago.  Qufu built Confucius Avenue linking downtown to its train
station, added a bus terminal nearby and won investment from
 Shangri-La Asia Ltd. (69)  for the city’s first luxury hotel before
today’s opening of the 221 billion yuan ($34 billion) Beijing-
Shanghai high-speed railway. The line, which passes through Qufu,
will slash the 550-kilometer (340-mile) train  journey  from
Beijing to two hours from about seven hours.  “Everyone is talking about the arrival of the bullet
train,” said Zhang Mingzhe, a city government spokesman. “They
all want to see how it will boost investments, job opportunities
and property prices.”  New houses, offices and hotels have been built along the
1,318 kilometer-long Beijing-Shanghai line as high-speed trains
make once isolated towns convenient destinations for weekend
getaways or possible homes for commuters wanting to live outside
big cities. The government is looking for similar effects
nationwide as it spends 2 trillion yuan on high-speed railways
to help spread growth beyond coastal regions.  “One of the reasons we built the line was to help boost
economic development and business in provinces along the
route,” said Zhao Guotang, deputy general manager of state-
controlled Beijing- Shanghai  High Speed Railway Co.  Qufu, home to 640,000 people, had per capita gross domestic
product of 36,718 yuan last year, based on government data. That
compares with about 89,000 yuan in Shanghai and 70,000 yuan in
Beijing.  300 KPH Trains  A Beijing-to-Qufu trip costs 245 yuan in coach class on a
300 kilometer-per-hour train, the quickest service. There are
also two premium classes. A ride from Beijing to Shanghai, which
takes less than five hours, costs from 555 yuan.  “The high-speed railway has great importance in improving
transportation, and boosting social and economic development,”
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in a speech at Beijing’s South Station
before boarding the debut service at 3 p.m.  The line, with 24 stops, will offer 90 services a day in
each direction, including non-stop shuttles between Beijing and
Shanghai,  China ’s two big cities. The railway will carry about
180,000 passengers a day initially, Rail Vice Minister Hu Yadong
said on June 13.  Economic Sea-Change  Xuzhou, a city of 9.6 million people about halfway along
the line, is developing a 5.2 square-kilometer business district
around its train station. Plans include an office block and
four-star hotel being built by closely held Shanghai Greenland
Group Co.  “The train will bring a sea-change in Xuzhou’s economic
landscape,” said Cai Qianfeng, who headed a high-speed rail
project in the city, traditionally a centre for heavy industries.
“We can develop more in logistics, business and financial
services.”  The new line helped boost property prices in Xuzhou by 17
percent in the past 10 months, based on data from property-
researcher SouFun Holdings Ltd. Other stops along the line,
including Langfang, Zhenjiang and Wuxi, have also posted jumps
of 10 percent of more. By comparison, Beijing has risen 6.6
percent and Shanghai has gained 2.7 percent.  High-speed trains will have the greatest impact on property
prices in second and third-tier cities close to major economic
regions, said James MacDonald, head of China research for
Savills Property Services (Shanghai) Co. A bullet-train link
eases travel and boost cities’ profiles by showing that planners
consider them to be “significant,” he said.  Big-Home Dream  Bengbu, in northern Anhui province, is developing a
satellite town centered on its high-speed train station, which
includes universities, parks, government buildings and a
residential complex.  “Let the bullet train accelerate your big-home dream!,”
Greenland Group writes on a  website  advertising a property
development in the city, a two-hour ride from Shanghai.  Confucius Avenue and the new bus station in Qufu, Shandong
province, cost 755 million yuan, the equivalent of 70 percent of
the city’s 2010 revenue. The bus and rail station will be able
to handle a combined 80 million passengers annually on both
regional and intra-city services, Zhang said.  The city and seven others in Shandong formed a group to
promote tourist visits using high-speed trains, with packages
and services targeting weekend visitors. About 3.8 million
tourists went to Qufu last year to see its walled town, the
Confucius Mansions and the philosopher’s tomb with its retinue
of stone panthers and griffins.  Shangri-La Hotel  Shangri-La is scheduled to open a 491-room hotel in Qufu
next year, according to its annual report. The city will be the
smallest in China to have a property run by the luxury-hotel
chain.  “Shangri-La decided to build the hotel here because of the
train and the tourist boom it will bring,” said Qufu’s Zhang.
The Hong Kong-based company declined to comment in an e-mailed
reply to questions.  While bullet trains can bring visitors in, they also pose a
threat to local businesses by making it easier for residents to
visit other cities, which may offer a greater range of shops,
said Savills’ MacDonald. The new links may also let businesses
run regional operations from a central location, enabling them
to close offices in other cities, he said.  Cities need to invest in infrastructure to support new
bullet-train services to prevent companies from moving to other
locations, said  Douglas Webster , an urban economist at  Arizona
State University .  “It’s a very perishable effect,” said Webster, who
advised on a development near the new line’s Shanghai terminus.
“If you don’t have good connections with the station itself,
the effect wears off very quickly.”  --Jasmine Wang and Bonnie Cao. With assistance from Tian Ying
in Beijing. Editors: Neil Denslow, Frank Longid, Josh Fellman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  