-- 
Credit Suisse Said to Plan Eliminating More Than 600 Jobs

-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i ,   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-06-29T21:16:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/credit-suisse-said-to-plan-600-investment-bank-job-cuts-including-in-u-k-.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-
biggest Swiss lender, is planning to cut more than 600 jobs in
its investment bank, including more than 100 in the  London 
office, according to a person briefed on the plans.  The firm told employees it plans to make job cuts, said
three people with knowledge of the talks, speaking on the
condition of anonymity because the negotiations are private.
Most reductions will be in developed countries, one of the
people said. The investment bank employed 20,800 people at the
end of March, up from 19,400 at the end of 2009.  The division posted a 25 percent decline in first-quarter
pretax profit from the year-earlier period as costs climbed and
the Swiss franc rose against the dollar, eroding revenue. The
unit, which suffered smaller writedowns than larger Swiss
competitor UBS AG after the 2008 financial crisis, has been
trying to boost market share. Last year, it hired about 90
people, adding to credit, rates and foreign-exchange trading
businesses.  A spokeswoman for Zurich-based Credit Suisse declined to
comment. Yesterday the bank said in a statement that it’s
“adjusting capacity” and “realigning resources to growth
areas.”  Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan , 51, cut the bank’s
profitability goal in February in response to the Basel capital
rules that may reduce returns from securities businesses.  ROE Target Cut  The bank cut its target return on equity, a gauge of
profitability, to more than 15 percent over the next three to
five years, down from a previous goal of more than 18 percent,
because the lender will have to set aside more capital for
trading units. Return on equity in the first quarter was 13.4
percent on an annualized basis.  Global investment-banking revenue may fall by about 16
percent in the second quarter mainly due to a slowdown in fixed-
income, currencies and commodities trading, JPMorgan Cazenove
said in a note to clients on June 7.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc is cutting about 200 posts
at its securities division in the U.K. and  Europe , a person
familiar with the plan said this month. Barclays Plc eliminated
as many as 50 jobs at its equities unit, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  Credit Suisse eliminated about 25 employees from its London
equities unit in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net 
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at +44-20-7073-3190 or
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 