-- 
Credit Suisse Said to Plan 100 Job Cuts at U.K. Investment Bank

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a ,   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 
2011-06-29T14:39:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/credit-suisse-said-to-plan-40-european-investment-bank-job-cuts.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-
biggest Swiss bank, may cut about 100 jobs at its investment
bank in the U.K. as part of a global staff-reduction plan, said
a person familiar with the matter.  The reduction includes most of the 40 managing directors
and directors the bank is eliminating across Europe, said two
more people familiar with the situation who declined to be
identified as details are private. More than 20 managing
directors have been told their positions are being reviewed.
About five have already left since the Zurich-based bank
announced bonuses earlier this year, the people said.  “Even banks that had a comparatively good financial crisis
are now being forced to cut costs,” said John Axworthy, partner
at recruitment firm J.  Robert Scott  in  London . “Non-performing
managing directors are particularly exposed. We expect other
bulge brackets to go down the same route.”  Global investment banking revenue may fall by about 16
percent in the second quarter mainly due to a slowdown in fixed-
income, currencies and commodities trading, JPMorgan Cazenove
said in a note to clients on June 7.  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS)  plans to cut 200 posts at its investment bank, a
person with knowledge of the situation said this month, while
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  cut 100 jobs at its investment banking unit this
month, a person briefed on the matter said.  Strategy Meeting  Credit Suisse has about 120 managing directors at its
investment bank in  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa , one of
the people said. About 20 director-level jobs are under review,
the person said. Most of those affected by the cuts will leave
the bank, while some will be relocated to other regions or
positions, the people said. The cuts will be discussed at a
Credit Suisse strategy meeting in London today, the people said.  A spokeswoman for Credit Suisse declined to comment today.
Yesterday the bank said it was “realigning resources” and
“adjusting capacity.”  The bank told employees it plans to cut jobs at its
investment bank, three people with knowledge of the talks said
yesterday. The investment bank employed 20,800 people at the end
of March, up from 19,400 at the end of 2009.  Credit Suisse’s investment bank posted a 25 percent decline
in first-quarter pretax profit from the year-earlier period as
costs rose and the Swiss franc rose against the dollar, eroding
revenue. The unit, which suffered smaller writedowns than larger
Swiss competitor  UBS AG (UBSN)  after the 2008 financial crisis, has
been trying to boost market share by expanding its sales force.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net 
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  