-- 
Oil Climbs a Third Day on U.S. Crude Stockpiles, Heads for Quarterly Loss

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-06-30T07:17:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/crude-oil-climbs-for-third-day-after-u-s-supplies-drop-more-than-expected.html
Oil rose for a third day, trimming
its first quarterly loss in a year, as traders bet U.S. demand
may be strengthening and  Greece  prepared for a second vote on
austerity measures designed to prevent a debt default.  Futures advanced as much as 0.7 percent, extending the
biggest two-day rally in seven weeks. The U.S. Energy Department
said yesterday inventories fell almost four times as much as
projected by analysts and Greece’s parliament backed Prime
Minister  George Papandreou ’s package of budget cuts and asset
sales. Oil also climbed as Arlene, the first tropical storm of
the  Atlantic hurricane season , moved toward the Mexico coast.  “The Greek situation has provided some optimism,” said
 Jonathan Barratt , a managing director of Commodity Broking
Services Pty in Sydney, who predicted oil will average $100 a
barrel this year. “Combined with inventory data, which is very
strong, and a memory of the  hurricane season  with Arlene coming
through, it’s given us this unique driving factor.”  Crude for August delivery rose as much as 67 cents to
$95.44 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange and was at $95.25 at 3:14 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract climbed yesterday $1.88 to $94.77, completing a two-day
gain of 4.6 percent, the most since May 10.  Oil has erased losses after tumbling below $90 a barrel
June 23 when the  International Energy Agency  announced the
release of 60 million barrels from strategic reserves, including
30 million from the U.S. Prices have since rallied more than 4
percent and are 26 percent higher the past year.  ‘Crescendo of Events’  Brent oil for August settlement traded 27 cents higher at
$112.67 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange. The European benchmark contract traded at a premium of
$17.49 to West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark grade. The
spread reached a record $22.29 a barrel on June 15.  “It’s a crescendo of events that is supporting prices,”
Barratt said. Oil in New York may “trade back to $100 a
barrel.”  Oil is down 11 percent in the second quarter, the first
decline since the period ended June 30, 2010, after Europe’s
debt crisis bolstered speculation fuel demand will shrink.  Greek lawmakers voted to approve the austerity plan
designed to meet European Union aid requirements and stave off a
debt default that may have disrupted the European economy. A
debate on the second stage of the austerity package resumes at
10 a.m. in  Athens , with no time given for the final vote.  Imports Slide  U.S. crude supplies dropped to 359.5 million barrels,
according to the Energy Department. The fourth week of declines
is the longest streak since the six weeks ended Jan. 7. Imports
fell 3 percent to 8.88 million barrels a day, the first drop in
three weeks, Energy Department data shows.  Arlene is moving toward the eastern coast of  Mexico , where
the government has issued a  hurricane watch . “Some
strengthening is forecast and Arlene could become a hurricane
prior to landfall,” the Miami-based National Hurricane Center
said in an advisory before 8 p.m. East Coast time yesterday.  Petroleos Mexicanos ,  Latin America ’s largest producer, has
wells in the area. Mexico is the second-biggest oil exporter to
the U.S., after  Canada , supplying 1.19 million barrels a day in
March, the last month for which Energy Department figures are
available.  Oil’s advance in New York may stall along its middle
Bollinger Band, a technical indicator that halted a rally above
$100 a barrel three weeks ago. This level is at $97.27 today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prices are approaching
the 200-day moving average for August futures, at $96.05 a
barrel today. A breach of technical resistance usually means
prices will continue to rise.  OPEC Output  Futures also rose amid speculation the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries may reduce output in response to
IEA’s release of reserves.  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s largest
producer, will proceed with plans to ensure the global market
has enough crude, regardless of what the IEA does, a person
familiar with policy at the oil ministry said.  Saudi Arabia estimates that consumption will rise by 1.2 to
1.5 million barrels a day in 2012 from this year’s level and the
kingdom will contribute to meeting that demand, according to the
person, who declined to be identified because he isn’t
authorized to speak on the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  