-- 
Crude Oil Advances a Second Day on Speculation OPEC May Reduce Production

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-06-29T12:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/crude-oil-gains-a-second-day-on-speculation-about-opec-output-greece-vote.html
Oil rose in  New York , extending the
biggest gain in six weeks, amid concern OPEC may reduce output
in response to the  International Energy Agency ’s move to release
oil stockpiles.  Futures advanced as much as 1.5 percent after rallying 2.5
percent yesterday. The IEA’s plan to release strategic reserves
sparked speculation that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries may limit output. A U.S. report today may show crude
stockpiles fell more than forecast last week, and Greece’s
parliament will vote on a plan to cut spending and sell assets.  “If IEA countries are releasing stockpiles Saudi Arabia
won’t increase production as much as expected,” said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst at Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich in
Vienna. “Markets are looking at a positive outcome in  Greece .”  Crude for August delivery rose as much as $1.41 to $94.30 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $93.82 at 12:58 p.m. London time. Yesterday, the
contract climbed 2.5 percent to $92.89, the biggest one-day gain
since May 18. Prices are up 2.7 percent so far this year.  Brent oil for August settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange was at $109.88 a barrel, up 1.1 percent.
The European benchmark contract was at a premium of $16.06 to
U.S. futures.  Quarterly Decline  Oil is headed for the first quarterly decline in a year
after Europe’s debt crisis bolstered speculation fuel demand
will be reduced. New York futures are down 12 percent from the
end of March, the worst second quarter since 1990. Brent has
lost 6.3 percent.  U.S. crude inventories were forecast to have dropped 1.5
million barrels in the week ended June 24 from 363.8 million,
according to the median estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Refiners probably maintained operating rates at
a 10-month high of 89.2 percent of capacity as they boosted
gasoline production before the Fourth of July holiday.  The Energy Department will release its Weekly Petroleum
Status Report at 10:30 a.m. in  Washington . Yesterday, the
industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  said in a separate
report that crude stockpiles slipped 2.7 million barrels to
360.3 million, the lowest in 10 weeks.  “There are concerns  Saudi Arabia  will cut production” in
response to the IEA move, said  Roland Stenzel , an oil trader at
E&T Energie Handelsgesellschaft mbH, said from Vienna.  The London-based al-Hayat newspaper reported on June 10,
two days after OPEC’s last meeting, that Saudi Arabia would
increase output to 10 million barrels a day. It produced 8.9
million barrels in May, according to Bloomberg estimates.  Tropical Storm  The first tropical storm of the Atlantic hurricane season,
Arlene, may lead to the closure of Mexican oil ports,  Eugen Weinberg , Frankfurt-based head of commodities research at
Commerzbank AG, wrote in a report today.  Mexico is the second-biggest oil exporter to the U.S. and
supplied 1.19 million barrels a day in March, the last month for
which Energy Department data are available. Petroleos Mexicanos,
 Mexico ’s state-owned oil company and Latin America’s largest
producer, has wells in the Bay of Campeche, south of the storm.  Arlene is moving west-northwest at 8 miles (13 kilometers)
per hour, with a turn toward the west forecast today, the center
said in a bulletin at about 4 a.m. New York time. The storm is
packing maximum sustained winds near 40 mph, less than the 74-
mph threshold for hurricanes.  Oil in New York settled higher than two technical-
resistance levels yesterday, signaling the market may extend
gains. Futures climbed above a Fibonacci retracement level at
$92.79 a barrel and the 200-day moving average, which is at
$92.90 today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  