-- 
Czech Cabinet Approves Pension-Revamp Bills Amid Coalition Row

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-06-29T12:45:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/czech-cabinet-approves-pension-revamp-bills-amid-coalition-row.html
The Czech government approved draft
laws overhauling the pension system and boosting private savings
for retirement as the three ruling parties argue over Cabinet
posts and budget spending.  The three bills, allowing people to redirect part of
compulsory pension payments into personal accounts managed by
pension funds, are part of one of the main goals for Prime
Minister Petr Necas’s Cabinet. Plans including an overhaul of
the deficit-making pay-as-you-go pension system and a reduction
of the budget gap helped Czech bonds outperform German debt in
the past year. The bills will now go to parliament for a debate.  “The government is fulfilling its tasks” Necas told
reporters in  Prague  today. “All these key reform bills were
approved by the government unanimously.”  Tensions inside the coalition increased this week after
Necas’s Civic Democrats and the TOP09 party rejected a demand by
the smallest coalition member, Public Affairs, to guarantee
money for teachers’ salaries and transportation infrastructure
in the 2012 budget. The coalition is nearing a June 30 deadline
Public Affairs gave Necas to meet its demands or the party will
leave the Cabinet, stripping it of its parliamentary majority.  Necas, who last year assembled the largest majority in
parliament since independence in 1993, pledged to cut the
public-finance shortfall to less than the European Union limit
of 3 percent of economic output, calling the overhaul of the
pension and health-care systems the key goals for his Cabinet.
The government plans to narrow the gap to 3.5 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012 from the planned 4.2 percent in 2011.  While the deficits of the pension system wouldn’t exceed 1
percent of GDP in the next 20 years without “substantial
changes”, they would later reach about 4 percent of GDP
“without reform measures,” the  Finance Ministry  said in a
document accompanying the bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net  