-- 
Daewoo International to Expand Resources Business as Prices Rise, Lee Says

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k   a n d   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 
2011-06-29T02:30:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/daewoo-international-to-expand-resources-business-as-prices-rise-lee-says.html
Daewoo International Corp. (047050) , the
trading company controlled by South Korean steelmaker Posco,
plans to double the share of revenue it gets from the resources
business as it expands into copper, rice and rare earths.  The mineral and energy resources division may account for
30 percent of sales by 2015 from about 15 percent now, Chief
Executive Lee Dong Hee, 61, said yesterday in an interview at
the company’s headquarters in Seoul.  Rising prices of raw materials are spurring Daewoo and its
South Korean peers to boost investments in commodities ranging
from oil and gas to copper, competing with rivals in  China  and
 India  to secure supplies. The benchmark Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Index of 24 commodities has jumped 33 percent in the past year.  “We have to invest in natural resources,” said Lee.
“Prices of natural resources have gone up and I don’t think
they will come down again.”  Daewoo, which mostly buys and sells steel, metals and auto
parts, also operates a gas project in Myanmar and owns a stake
in a nickel mine in  Madagascar .  The gas project in Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, is set
to begin production in May 2013 and will generate $700 million
in sales a year, Lee said. “It will contribute to our profit
considerably,” he said.  Daewoo will probably report a profit of $200 million on
sales of $18 billion this year, Lee said. Its shares have
advanced 19 percent in the past year, compared with a 22 percent
advance in the local benchmark  Kospi index. (KOSPI)  The stock rose 0.7
percent to 36,950 won at 11:26 a.m. Seoul time, heading for the
highest price since June 7.  Copper, Rice  The company and partner Taejoo Synthesis Steel Co. may sign
an initial agreement with Societe de Developpement Industriel et
Minier du Congo or SODIMICO, to develop a copper mine in the
Democratic Republic of Congo, Lee said.  Daewoo International, the biggest rice trader in  South
Korea , last month set up a venture with a company in Cambodia to
produce rice, said Lee, who was earlier the chief financial
officer of  Posco. (005490)  It acquired a stake in PT Bio Inti Agrindo to
produce  palm oil  in Indonesia, a company filing showed in April.  The company aims to invest about $800 million annually for
the resources division for existing and new projects, he said,
without giving comparative figures or a time span.  The Myanmar gas project is expected to cost $1.7 billion,
of which $1.2 billion has been secured, Lee said. The company
may raise the remaining amount by selling corporate bonds or its
24 percent stake in Kyobo Life Insurance Co., he said. The
timing of the sale will depend on market conditions, Lee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in  Seoul  at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net ;
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ; 