-- 
Dark ‘Transformers’ Unveils Moon Coverup, Lingerie Model: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-29T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/dark-transformers-unveils-moon-coverup-lingerie-model-film.html
Lunar lovers, rejoice!  The U.S. may have scrapped its manned moon-landing program,
but filmmaker Michael Bay is making sure the Earth's satellite
stays in the headlines.  The plot of Bay’s third “Transformers” movie, “ Dark of
the Moon ,” revolves around an alien spacecraft that crashed on
the moon in the early 1960s. Though the government hushed up the
discovery, it prompted President  John F. Kennedy ’s pledge to put
a man on the moon -- a mission whose secret goal was to
investigate the alien incident.  If you think that’s far-fetched, you obviously haven’t seen
the first two “Transformers” films, which also involve an
interplanetary war between shape-shifting robots. Logic and
common sense play very little part in this overblown,
earsplitting, monotonous franchise based on a Hasbro toy.  Like its predecessors, “Dark of the Moon” is a long (2
1/2 hours), convoluted story about the showdown between the good
Autobots and the evil Decepticons.  Mostly, though, it’s an endless series of computer-
generated battle scenes involving robots that can turn into
winged missiles, machine-gun-shooting monsters and other weapons
of mass destruction. (This one is in 3-D, which makes everything
appear bigger if not better.)  Bay tries to spice up the action with globe-trotting
settings in  Russia , Africa,  Los Angeles , Chicago and  Washington ,
where the famous statue of Honest Abe at the Lincoln Memorial
gets blown to smithereens. Chicago’s Trump Tower glass
skyscraper gets knocked sideways, which is actually an
architectural improvement.  Victoria’s Secret Model  “Dark of the Moon” features many returnees from the first
two “Transformers” movies:  Shia LaBeouf  as a young go-getter
who protects the Autobots; John Turturro as a hyper, paranoid
spy; and  Josh Duhamel  and Tyrese Gibson as military commanders
waging war against the Decepticons.  LaBeouf has no discernible talent. Turturro has plenty,
though he’s clearly picking up a paycheck here.  Gone is bombshell Megan Fox as LaBeouf’s girlfriend,
replaced by statuesque Rosie Huntington-Whiteley, an English
model whose main acting experience has been in Victoria’s Secret
commercials and TV shows.  Other series newcomers are  John Malkovich  as LaBeouf’s
control-freak boss at an aerospace company,  Frances McDormand  as
a dictatorial national security chief, Patrick Dempsey as a
handsome tycoon with a priceless classic-car collection and
Leonard Nimoy as the voice of scary robot Sentinel Prime.  There’s also a cameo by former astronaut Buzz Aldrin, who
once punched a filmmaker for claiming that the moon landings
were a hoax. Here he’s in on the moon coverup, proving that Bay
can alter anyone’s reality.  “Transformers: Dark of the Moon,” from  Paramount
Pictures , opens today across the U.S. Rating: *  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 