-- 
Deferred Compensation Lets Executives Avoid 401(k) Saving Caps

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-06-29T14:30:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/deferred-compensation-lets-executives-avoid-401-k-saving-caps.html
Executives with deferred
compensation plans have until tomorrow to set aside part of
their bonuses and save as much as 9 percent in future taxes.  In addition to the tax break, the plans let highly paid
employees circumvent the $22,000 cap on contributions to 401(k)
savings plans facing lower-paid workers.  Last year, about 79 percent of chief executive officers at
Fortune 100 companies were offered so-called nonqualified
deferred compensation plans, according to  Equilar , an executive-
compensation data firm in  Redwood City , California. Depending on
the employer’s plan, executives and managers may be able to
defer an unlimited amount of their salaries or bonuses on a
pretax basis until a future date.  “I’m seeing a lot of people considering it,” said Robert Barbetti, head of the executive compensation practice at J.P.
Morgan Private Bank, a unit of New York-based  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  “People are anticipating that tax rates are going to go
up.”  Workers age 50 or older generally may put as much as
 $22,000  this year into a 401(k) and as much as $6,000 into an
IRA, according to Internal Revenue Service rules. That’s a
fraction of executive pay at the top 50 U.S. financial companies
where the average compensation for a CEO rose 26 percent to
$11.5 million in 2010, according to Bloomberg Markets magazine’s
annual ranking of the best-paid CEOs.  Taxes May Rise  That’s part of the reason there’s more interest in deferral
plans, Barbetti said. Another is the potential tax benefits, he
said. Participants must pick when they want to receive their
compensation and can decide where they’ll live when they get it,
such as a low-tax state, he said. Executives generally have
until June 30 to defer part of their bonuses and until the end
of the year to set aside some of their 2012 salaries.  Federal rates on income, capital gains and dividends will
rise in 2013 unless Congress acts because tax cuts extended last
year are scheduled to expire at the end of 2012. President
 Barack Obama  has proposed letting income-tax rates increase to
as much as 39.6 percent from 35 percent for couples making more
than $250,000 annually. Capital gains and dividends would be
taxed at a top rate of 20 percent, compared with 15 percent. The
highest earners also face additional levies on unearned income
and wages starting in 2013 to pay for health-care reform.  New York  to  Florida   Executives who choose to take distributions from their
plans over a period of at least 10 years may save a lot of money
if they move from a high-tax jurisdiction such as New York to a
non-income tax state like Florida, said Andrew Liazos, a partner
at McDermott Will & Emery LLP, who co-chairs the law firm’s
executive compensation practice. Federal legislation says the
state where taxpayers earned deferred compensation such as New
York can’t tax the income if they’ve moved to Florida and
receive it in equal-installment payouts over at least 10 years.  Starting in 2013, a retired New York executive who receives
$400,000 annually over a period of 10 years from his or her plan
will be subject to both federal and New York state income tax,
with a combined rate of up to 43.7 percent, according to an
analysis by J.P. Morgan. That means about $174,800 in taxes.  If the executive moves to a state with no income tax such
as Florida or  New Hampshire , the $400,000 distribution would
only be subject to a federal income tax rate of up to 39.6
percent in 2013 or $158,400 in taxes, the analysis shows. That’s
a savings of $16,400 annually.  “That’s absolutely, positively a play,” said William
Dunn, a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP who leads the
firm’s executive compensation practice. “That’s a big deal as
the states have been increasing their rates and you look at
their budget challenges.”  State Taxes  States including  Connecticut  and  Illinois  have increased
taxes this year, according to the Washington-based  Tax
Foundation . Connecticut raised its levy on top earners to 6.7
percent from 6.5 percent. The top individual income tax rate is
10.3 percent in  California  and 8.97  New Jersey , according to the
foundation. The top rate in New York state is 8.97 percent until
the end of the year when it will revert to 6.85 percent,
according to Susan Burns, a spokeswoman for the New York State
Department of Taxation and Finance.  More Interest  “We’ve certainly been seeing more interest from the
administration to respond to the deficit problems with
increasing rates,” said Dunn. “If the Democrats continue to
stay in the White House we can expect a push for higher rates
and therefore deferred compensation is better off.”  Executives who use the plans usually should defer for more
than five years to make it worth it, said J.P. Morgan’s
Barbetti. That’s because while money in the account compounds on
a pre-tax basis, it’s taxed as ordinary income when withdrawn.
That compares with earnings on investments outside the plan,
which generally are taxed at lower  capital gains  rates, he said.  The rate of executives participating in nonqualified
accounts rose to 42 percent in 2011 from 40 percent the previous
year, said Bryant Kirk, chief operating officer at the Newport
Group in Heathrow, Florida, which administers 600 executive-
benefit plans with $7 billion in plan liabilities and 50,000
participants. The anticipation of larger bonuses and a higher
comfort level with their firms’ economic health drove the
increase, Kirk said.  Employers usually let employees choose investments such as
mutual funds and company stock for the money they defer. Some
plans also offer a fixed rate of return, said Steve Broadbent,
managing director of Fulcrum Partners LLC, an executive benefits
consulting firm based in  Ponte Vedra Beach , Florida.  Biggest Risk  The biggest risk for executives with a nonqualified plan is
if their employer goes bankrupt, said Broadbent. That’s because
participants are considered unsecured creditors, unlike
investors in 401(k)s, he said.  The bipartisan U.S. deficit commission has recommended
reducing the amount that can be contributed to 401(k) plans and
IRAs to raise revenue. If that happens, those who already defer
compensation into nonqualified plans may set aside more to make
up for a lower limit, said Liazos of McDermott Will & Emery.  “It is sometimes frustrating that anyone is talking about
cutting back on limits that are incredibly meager compared to
the massive executive compensation packages that are out there
today,” Brian Graff, executive director and CEO of the American
Society of Pension Professionals & Actuaries in Arlington,
Virginia said.  Wal-Mart CEO  The CEO of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , Mike Duke, had a balance
of $63.3 million in cash and equity deferred compensation,
according to an April regulatory filing. Other companies that
offer plans include  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
and JPMorgan Chase & Co., according to securities filings. The
median balance for Fortune 100 CEOs with such a plan was $4
million in 2010, a 5 percent increase from 2009, Equilar data
show.  “The plan is a way for the company’s officers to save for
retirement,” said Greg Rossiter, a Wal-Mart spokesman. “For
the company it’s a means of attracting and retaining top
talent.”  About half of firms with more than $1 billion in revenue
match a portion of the employee’s contribution, which helps
increase participation, said Michael Shute, chief executive
officer of MullinTBG, a unit of  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) 
MullinTBG administered executive-benefit plans with about $22.1
billion in assets and 63,500 participants as of March 31.  The median contribution by Fortune 100 CEOs to nonqualified
deferred compensation plans was $32,500 in 2010 with companies
contributing a median of $95,813, data from Equilar show.
Executives eligible for the plans may choose each year if they
want to contribute and the amount.  IRS Regulations  IRS regulations set the deadlines for the deferrals.
Participants have until June 30, or six months prior to the end
of the employer’s fiscal year, to defer performance-based
compensation such as a bonus they expect to receive in the first
quarter of next year. Salary deferrals must be selected prior to
the beginning of each calendar year, according to the IRS. Rules
in the  tax code  also require employees to pick a future date for
receiving the money and generally prohibit getting it back
earlier except in some emergencies.  Failure to follow the IRS rules makes deferred pay
immediately taxable as ordinary income and subject to an
additional 20 percent income and premium interest tax,
McDermott’s Liazos said.  “You shouldn’t plan on being able to make changes to get
your money sooner,” Liazos said. “Your ability to unwind it is
very limited.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 