-- 
Deficit Concerns Push Rupee to First Loss in Four Quarters: India Credit

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-06-30T05:06:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/deficit-concerns-push-rupee-to-first-loss-in-four-quarters-india-credit.html
India’s decision to scrap  import
duties  on crude oil is stoking concern that the government will
fail to rein in its budget deficit, depressing the rupee and
pushing up yields on government debt.  The currency is headed for its first quarterly loss in a
year, after weakening 0.4 percent against the dollar since March
31, the worst performance in  Asia  after the Thai baht’s 1.4
percent decline, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields
on 10-year  government bonds  have climbed 13 basis points from a
six-week low of 8.19 percent on June 20.  The government’s announcement on June 24 ending the 5
percent duty on oil imports and cutting fuel levies will reduce
revenue by 490 billion rupees ($11 billion), or 0.5 percent of
gross domestic product, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
India’s budget shortfall was 4.7 percent of gross domestic
product in the year ended March 31. Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee is targeting a deficit of 4.6 percent for this fiscal
year.  “The domestic situation is adding to the short-term
vulnerability of the rupee,”  Mitul Kotecha , the head of global
foreign-exchange strategy in  Hong Kong  at Credit Agricole SA,
said in an interview yesterday. “The scrapping of duties is
being viewed with caution.”  The 26 percent advance in global  oil prices  over the past
year prompted Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s coalition
government to raise prices on diesel and cooking gas for the
first time in a year. Diesel prices were increased by 3 rupees
(7 cents) a liter, kerosene was raised by 2 rupees a liter and
cooking gas by 50 rupees for every 14.2 kilogram bottle.  Cushion the Blow  To cushion the effect of higher prices on inflation and to
reduce the impact on a country where about 75 percent of the
population lives on less than $2 a day, the government also cut
taxes on fuel, further decreasing budget revenue.  The target to bolster  tax revenue  by 18.5 percent in the
year through March 2012 will be a challenge as economic growth
slows, Sunil Mitra, the top finance ministry bureaucrat said on
June 8. Indian GDP rose 7.8 percent in the first quarter, the
least for five quarters.  “We see the rupee on a weak footing in the next quarter as
well since the fiscal situation will be worrisome and growth is
likely to be disappointing,” said  Anubhuti Sahay , a Mumbai-
based economist at Standard Chartered Bank Plc. “It will be
under pressure until September.”  Rupee-denominated bonds have provided the smallest returns
to investors this quarter among so-called BRIC nation local-
currency debt, according to the JPMorgan Chase & Co. GBI-EM
Unhedged Index.  Higher Rates  Rupee notes earned 0.3 percent, compared with 9.2 percent
for Brazilian-real notes, 1.6 percent on Russian ruble debt, and
0.8 percent on on bonds denominated in Chinese yuan.  The difference in yields between sovereign rupee notes due
in 10 years and similar-maturity debt in the U.S. widened to 521
basis points from this year’s low of 436 reached April 8.  The rupee trimmed its quarterly decline this month, gaining
0.7 percent to 44.7590 per dollar as global funds, lured by what
is still the fastest growth rate among major economies after
 China ’s, stepped up purchases of Indian assets. The Chinese
economy grew 9.7 percent in the first three months of 2011.  Rising interest rates in  India  are also supporting the
rupee, with the currency providing a total return of 1.6 percent
since March 31, more than the 0.8 percent for the yuan, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Total return includes earnings on
the currency as well as the interest earned on applying the
local deposit rate. India has increased its benchmark rate by
275 basis points in the past year, more than  Brazil , China and
 Russia .  ‘Downside Capped’  “The downside is capped and the rupee will consolidate
before appreciation,” J. Moses Harding, Mumbai-based executive
vice-president at IndusInd Bank Ltd., said in an interview
yesterday. “Capital inflows will continue due to prospects of
carry-trade.”  In carry trades, investors borrow funds in countries with
lower  interest rates  and then invest the money in markets with
higher yields.  The rupee will appreciate to 44.50 per dollar next quarter
and the yield on 10-year bonds will probably remain between 8.10
to 8.25 percent over the next six months, Harding said.  Excluding interest-rate returns, the rupee will strengthen
2.1 percent to 44 per dollar by the end of June 2012, according
to the median forecast of 25 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
median prediction was 45.5 per dollar on June 9.  Swaps Rise  Overseas investors bought $3.4 billion of Indian debt this
year, increasing outstanding holdings to $21.1 billion as of
June 27, according to  Securities and Exchange Board of India 
data. The outstanding equity investment was $102 billion. This
month, investors purchased shares worth $562 million more than
they sold, the data showed.  The cost of protecting debt of government-owned  State Bank 
of India, seen as a proxy for the nation, has increased 17 basis
points this month to 197, according to data compiled by CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Reducing the  budget deficit  to the government’s target
level will be difficult, Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of
the prime minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said June 27
after the fuel tax reductions were announced.  Respite Unlikely  Crude climbed 0.4 percent to $95.17 a barrel in New York
trading, and has gained 13 percent since hitting $83.85 on Feb.
15, the lowest level this year.  “There won’t be any major fall in oil prices from the
current level and so the pressure on the budget deficit to widen
remains,” said N. R. Bhanumurthy, a New Delhi-based economist
at the National Institute for Public Finance and Policy. “There
has been some relief for the rupee lately and it has
appreciated, but a major respite is unlikely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  