-- 
Dell Wants a Bigger Piece of Data-Management Market, CEO Says

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-06-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/dell-aims-for-bigger-piece-of-data-management-market-ceo-says.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  wants to build on sales of
servers and storage systems by expanding in data management, or
hardware and software that help corporations catalog growing
volumes of data, Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell  said.  The company seeks to sell customers more of the complete
lineup of products they need to run their technology operations,
Dell said at a reception last night ahead of the company’s
annual  meeting  with financial analysts today in Austin, Texas.  “Instead of selling ingredients like servers and storage,
we’re selling the whole  data center ,” he said. “It’s the
evolution of where storage goes.”  Dell, the world’s second-largest personal-computer maker,
gets about 70 percent of sales from PCs and related products.
The company is making acquisitions, broadening its product line
and hiring sales staff to expand beyond its roots. Efforts
include beefing up the company’s data centers to take advantage
of the growth of so-called cloud computing, or the delivery of
software and information through the Internet.  The company plans to spend $1 billion in the next two years
to open 10 data centers that will make it easier to sell cloud-
computing services to customers.  “It’s time for Dell to get into the conversation about the
business benefit of these technologies,” Steve Schuckenbrock,
president of Dell services, said in an interview earlier this
month.  Security, Systems Management  Dell, based in  Round Rock ,  Texas , is aiming to double the
size of its server, storage, networking and storage business to
$30 billion in sales through acquisitions and increased spending
on research and development. The company could also expand its
presence in security and systems-management software, Michael
Dell said yesterday.  Global PC shipments unexpectedly fell in the first quarter,
and consumers have been curtailing purchases of desktop and
laptop computers in favor of tablets.  Dell rose 7 cents to $16.01 on the Nasdaq Stock Market
yesterday. The shares have gained 18 percent this year.  The company plans to buy back more than $2 billion in stock
this fiscal year, and so far has repurchased $1.6 billion, Dell
said separately in a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  