-- 
Deutsche Boerse Asks EU to Approve NYSE Euronext Takeover

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-06-29T12:49:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/deutsche-boerse-asks-eu-to-approve-nyse-euronext-takeover-bid.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  asked European
Union regulators to approve its plan to buy  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  in a
deal valued at about $9.25 billion, creating the largest owner
of equities and derivatives markets.  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext today formally requested
the European Commission to examine the transaction, the
companies said in a statement. The regulator said in an e-mail
that it set an initial deadline of Aug. 4 to rule on the deal.  The combination would combine NYSE Euronext’s Liffe and
Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex and put more than 90 percent of the
region’s exchange-traded derivatives market and about 30 percent
of European  stock trading  in the hands of one organization.  “The test of any exchange consolidation will be whether or
not they bring benefits to the exchanges’ customers, whether
they be listed companies, individual and institutional investors
or market participants,” said Christian Krohn, a managing
director at the Association for Financial Markets in Europe,
which represents international lenders including Deutsche Bank
AG, BNP Paribas SA and UBS AG.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition chief, said in March
he expects to follow up the initial month-long review with an
in-depth probe of the “complex deal,” lasting about 90 working
days.  Almunia told a  London  conference yesterday that regulators
would examine the plan with their “usual objectivity and
wisdom.” The EU can require companies to sell off units or
change their behavior if they conclude that a takeover would
harm competition.  Market Structure  As exchanges and their rivals try to combine, regulators
have been stepping up scrutiny of market structure.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) 
abandoned their unsolicited bid for NYSE Euronext in May after
the U.S. Justice Department threatened an antitrust suit.  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ’s $8.8 billion bid for  ASX Ltd. (ASX) 
collapsed in April after Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said
it wasn’t in the national interest.  Bats Global Markets Inc., the third-largest U.S. stock
exchange operator, faces an extended U.K. antitrust
investigation into its bid for Chi-X Europe Ltd.  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext said today their deal
created significant benefits “thanks to increased efficiencies
and reduced costs from opportunities for post-trade
harmonization.”  ‘Vertical Silo’  Almunia indicated in March that Deutsche Boerse’s
business model for clearing is not “the preferred one” to
encourage competition. He said at the time he preferred NYSE
Euronext’s “more open” model, which uses outside companies for
some aspects of clearing, to  Deutsche Boerse ’s “vertical
silo,” which routes clearing through its own services.  Clearinghouses -- such as Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex Clearing
unit and London’s LCH.Clearnet Ltd. -- operate as central
counterparties for every buy and sell order executed by their
members, who post collateral, reducing the risk that a trader
defaults on a deal. The business is becoming more valuable amid
firmer regulation of derivatives trading and a merger wave that
has seen more than $20 billion of exchange takeovers announced
in the last seven months.  “If costs are driven down through efficiencies and shared
systems development and liquidity is improved, through dual
listing capacity, for example, the outcome will be positive for
our members and their customers,” AFME’s Krohn said in an e-
mailed statement.  Regulatory Approval  NYSE Euronext’s deputy chief executive officer Dominique Cerutti said in February the companies believe regulators will
approve the deal because they aren’t dominant in clearing or
derivatives. They hold only a small part of a global derivatives
market where the vast majority of trades are over-the-counter,
he said.  Eurex and Liffe have 93 percent of listed derivatives in
 Europe , according to Donald Fandetti, an analyst at Citi
Investment Research & Analysis, a division of Citigroup Inc., in
a note to investors in February.  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext have resisted any
suggestion that they would sell Eurex or Liffe, saying in a
February statement that they “complement each other ideally on
interest rate products, with Eurex specializing in the long end
of the interest rate curve and NYSE Liffe the short end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 