-- 
Discover CEO Says Fuel Prices Hurt Consumer Confidence

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-06-29T16:40:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/discover-ceo-says-fuel-prices-hurt-consumer-confidence-correct-.html
(Corrects name of analyst’s firm in last paragraph of story
published June 24.)  Discover Financial Services (DFS)  Chief
Executive Officer David Nelms said he remains “guarded” about
how much confidence consumers have in the strength of the  U.S.
economy  as they cope with high fuel prices.  “We’ve seen a downturn in consumer confidence in the last
couple of months as gas prices picked up,” said Nelms, 50, in
an interview yesterday after Discover reported record results
for its second quarter. “I would very much like to see a robust
pickup at this point of the cycle.”  Discover is the fourth-biggest U.S. payments network,
giving Nelms up-to-date insight into how consumers are behaving.
While profit more than doubled to $600 million for the quarter
ended May 31 at his Riverwoods, Illinois-based firm, Nelms told
investors during a conference call that the economy “is still
not on firm footing.”  Consumer confidence  fell last week as Americans grew more
concerned about the economy, according to the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index. Stocks dropped yesterday after applications for
jobless benefits increased last week by 9,000 to 429,000, and
purchases of new U.S. homes declined in May for the first time
in three months.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 22 that
“headwinds” such as increasing unemployment and falling house
prices could be stronger than regulators expected. Some fuel
prices eased after the  International Energy Agency  said its
members would release crude from strategic reserves. That sent
 oil prices  tumbling 4.6 percent for the day.  Sales Gain  “Our sales are doing well despite not-great consumer
confidence,” Nelms said. “We’ve been pleased at how well our
sales have grown and how much we’ve been able to get people to
spend on Discover cards versus their alternatives.”  Nelms said he’s relying on more U.S. consumers borrowing
from Discover instead of his competitors, rather than waiting
for existing customers to borrow more.  “Many of our consumers have deleveraged and paid down some
of their debt over the last couple of years since the financial
crisis,” Nelms said. “Our goal is to grow credit-card loans in
the low single digits, but some of our other categories to grow
at much, much faster rates.”  Discover’s revenue from interest rose to $1.57 billion from
$1.55 billion a year earlier. Credit-card loans, about 85
percent of the firm’s total portfolio, fell 1 percent to $45
billion, even as purchases using Discover cards increased 9
percent to $25 billion.  Reserve Release  The quarterly results were aided by a $401 million release
from loss reserves as overdue loans dropped to a 25-year low,
Discover said.  Discover rose 30 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $23.89 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday. They’ve gained
29 percent so far this year, while the Standard & Poor’s
Financials Index dropped 6.8 percent.  “The revenue side is really where the questions exist,”
said  Michael Taiano , a Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP analyst, in
a phone interview. “That’s really where Discover needs to
demonstrate an ability to grow, for the stock to have material
upside from here.” Taiano has a “hold” recommendation on
Discover’s stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 