-- 
Dubai Shares Advance as U.A.E. Government Extends Property Visas

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-06-29T13:08:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/dubai-shares-advance-as-u-a-e-government-extends-property-visas.html
Dubai’s shares advanced, led by
property companies, after the United Arab Emirates government
extended the visa period for real-estate investors to three
years from six months.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, advanced 2 percent and  Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC) , the
U.A.E.’s biggest construction company by market value, rose a
second day this week. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  gained 0.6 percent,
the most since June 15, to 1,516.93 at the 2 p.m. close in
Dubai, trimming the loss for the month to 2.8 percent. The  DFM
Real Estate Index (DFREALTY)  rallied 1.5 percent and Abu Dhabi’s increased
1.8 percent.  “The decision is giving investors hope that the government
is looking closely at how to enhance the attractiveness of the
U.A.E. real-estate sector and increase the demand,” said
Mohammed Ali Yasin, chief investment officer at Abu Dhabi-based
financial services company CAPM Investments PJSC. “As investor
participation in these real-estate stocks is high, the news has
affected sentiment across the market positively.”  Dubai home prices slumped 62 percent from their peak in
mid-2008 after the global credit crisis caused mortgage lending
to dry up and speculative demand waned, Deutsche Bank AG said in
February. In neighboring  Abu Dhabi , prices slid 45 percent,
Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. estimated. About 85 percent of the
U.A.E’s population are foreign nationals and require visas to
live and work in the country.  The visa extension, which intends to “enhance the
attractiveness of the real-estate sector,” comes as part of a
new strategy plan announced by the government for the years 2011
to 2013, state-run Emirates News Agency said yesterday.  ‘Boost Demand’  The move “could significantly boost demand in the
residential real-estate sector, particularly in Dubai, as the
promise of a long-term residency visa was a major driver of
second-home purchases during the real-estate boom prior to
mid-2008,” Citigroup Inc. analyst Farouk Soussa said in an e-
mailed note to clients dated today. “However, the overall
impact on the  property market  is likely to be somewhat muted by
oversupply issues that are being exacerbated by the ongoing
completion of new properties.”  Emaar increased the most since June 15 to 3.02 dirhams.
Arabtec gained 2.4 percent to 1.28 dirhams, the highest since
June 22. In Abu Dhabi,  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR) , the emirate’s
biggest real-estate developer by market value, advanced 1.6
percent, the most since June 15, to 1.24 dirhams.  The  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  fell 0.3 percent after rising as much
as 0.3 percent.  Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  increased
0.7 percent. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  rose 0.5 percent, while Oman’s MSM
30 Index added 0.2 percent.  Kuwait’s SE Price Index retreated 0.2 percent, while
Bahrain’s BB All Share Index tumbled 0.9 percent. The U.A.E. and
Kuwaiti stock markets will close tomorrow for an Islamic
holiday, while Saudi Arabia’s market will be closed for the
weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  