-- 
Dunkin’ Brands Said to Set IPO Price Range as Soon as Next Week

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-06-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/dunkin-donuts-owner-said-to-set-price-range-for-ipo-as-soon-as-next-week.html
Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc., operator
of the  Dunkin’ Donuts  coffee chain, may set terms for its
initial public offering as soon as next week, said two people
with knowledge of the situation.  Taken private in 2006 by Bain Capital LLC,  Carlyle Group 
and Thomas H. Lee Partners LP, the company will likely set a
price range for its shares and kick off meetings with investors
after the July 4 holiday in the U.S., said the people, who
declined to be identified because the information is private.  Dunkin’ follows private equity-backed companies such as HCA
Holdings Inc. and Kinder Morgan Inc. in returning to the public
market this year after leveraged buyouts. Private equity owners
have completed the biggest U.S. IPOs in 2011 as a U.S. stock
market near a three-year high increased investors’ demand for
companies acquired through debt-fueled acquisitions before
credit markets started to freeze four years ago.  “Private equity IPOs this year have outperformed,” said
Kathleen Smith, a principal at  Renaissance Capital LLC , an IPO
research and investment firm in Greenwich,  Connecticut . “That’s
an encouraging sign for this IPO, and I do think investors have
been awaiting it.”  HCA, the Nashville, Tennessee-based hospital chain, gained
9.2 percent through yesterday since owners including KKR & Co.
and Bain brought it public in a $4.35 billion IPO in March.
Nielsen Holdings NV, the television ratings company owned by
Blackstone Group LP, Carlyle, KKR and Thomas H. Lee, rose 33
percent since its $1.89 billion IPO in January. Initial
offerings in the U.S. overall have returned less than 4 percent.  A Broader Menu  A record $1.6 trillion in leveraged buyouts were completed
from 2005 to 2007, according to Preqin Ltd., a London-based
research firm.  Bain, Carlyle and Thomas H. Lee paid about $2.43 billion
five years ago for Dunkin’, which competes with coffee chains
such as  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and  Canada ’s  Tim Hortons Inc. (THI)   “They’ve really expanded the brand over the past years,”
said Peter Saleh, a restaurant analyst at Telsey Advisory Group
in New York. “They have a much more broad menu.”  The chain has introduced several menu items this year to
bring in customers during the slower afternoon period. In April,
the restaurant began selling so-called hearty snacks including
apple pies, stuffed breadsticks and bagel twists.  Dunkin’  filed  on May 4 with the Securities and Exchange
Commission to raise as much as $400 million in an IPO. The stock
will trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol
DNKN. Michelle King, a spokeswoman for the Canton,
Massachusetts-based company, declined to comment.  Sales, Debt  Proceeds will be used to repay debt, according to
regulatory filings. The company had about $1.8 billion of net
long-term debt as of March 26. The offering is being led by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Barclays Plc, Morgan Stanley, Bank of
America Corp. and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Sales at Dunkin’ Brands increased 9.3 percent to $139.2
million in the three months ended March 26 from a year earlier,
according to the company’s regulatory filings. The company
booked a net loss of $1.72 million, compared with a gain of
$5.94 million in the year-earlier period.  The doughnut chain has more than 16,000 locations in 57
countries under the Dunkin’ Donuts and Baskin-Robbins brands,
according to the filing. Bill Rosenberg founded his first
restaurant in the 1940s, which was later renamed Dunkin’ Donuts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  