-- 
The Ultimate Dog’s Dinner: Hotel Offers Fine Dining for Pooches

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-06-29T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/the-ultimate-dog-s-dinner-hotel-silver-service-has-fine-food-for-pooches.html
It’s not the most adventurous of
menus, and wine isn’t served, yet the  Riverside Hotel  in
Evesham, central  England , says diners keep coming back for more.  Starters offer a choice of a soup, chicken-liver parfait,
crepes or home-made fishcakes. For mains, it’s rib-eye steak,
salmon wellington, pizza or pan-fried chicken supreme. Desserts
include carrot cake, rice pudding and chocolate biscuits.  The 9.95 pounds ($16) meal is served in china bowls on a
silver platter and is available in the dining room or al fresco.
There are broccoli-and-carrot biscuits for vegetarians.  “They really seem to enjoy it, although their taste is a
bit bland and you really have to go easy on the sugar and
salt,” chef Rico Pech, 29, says of his diners. He was born in
the  Philippines  and has come to understand the English palate.  The main thing that distinguishes his customers from you
and me is that they have four legs and occasionally bark. Well,
some chefs bark but you get the point: This is a gourmet menu
for dogs whose owners don’t want their pooches to miss out while
they enjoy Pech’s human fare such as Deep Fried King Prawn
Wrapped in Filo Pastry with a Sweet Chili Dressing.  “If you go into restaurants in  France , they’re very pro-
dog and they can eat together with their owners,” says hotel
owner Deborah Sinclair. “In the U.K., it’s hard to feel welcome
when you take along your pooch. I wanted to do something to
change attitudes. Everywhere does children’s menus, so what’s
the problem with doggy menus”  Singing Dog  She got the idea after a visit to the hotel from Pip and
Buddy -- former model  Pippa Langhorne  and her pooch, who brought
the audience to its feet on the TV show “ Britain’s Got Talent ”
when they performed “Pie Jesu” together.  “When I heard Buddy was coming along, I wanted to lay on a
culinary delight because that famous little pooch can sing
opera,” Sinclair says. “We get the occasional celebrity with a
posh pooch and we try to pamper the pooches as well.  “A photographer came along to photograph Buddy and since
then the telephone has been going a bit nutty. Now, we’ve got
film companies calling and wanting to make a film about us.
Everything is snowballing in bizarre ways because of the doggy
fine-dining menu.” The Sunday Times is among newspapers that
have reported on the pampering for pooches.  Chef Pech makes the doggy meals in his kitchen alongside
human fare, preparing elements of dishes in advance -- such as
the liver parfait he uses instead of a tomato sauce on his pooch
pizzas -- and cooks to order. Who are the fussiest diners?  “The big dogs will eat anything but the smaller ones are
very picky, especially when they’re old,” he says. “One owner
brought her dogs in last week and I’ve never had such fussy
diners.”  Riverside Hotel, The Parks, Offenham Road, Near Evesham,
Worcestershire. Information: +44-1386-446200 or
 http://www.river-side-hotel.co.uk/index.asp   (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  London  at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 