-- 
Lead-Acid Battery Output Recovery in China to be Slow Amid Pollution Curbs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-29T08:20:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/lead-acid-battery-output-recovery-in-china-to-be-slow-amid-pollution-curbs.html
Lead-acid battery production in
 China ’s Zhejiang province, which accounts for one-fifth of the
country’s output, will be slow to recover amid tough pollution
curbs, keeping demand for the metal low.  “Only a small proportion of producers, 10 to 15 percent,
meet government environmental standards,” Yao Lingchun,
secretary general of the Zhejiang Storage Battery Industry
Association, said by phone. “Their combined capacity is
unlikely to exceed 20 to 30 percent of the province’s total.”
The industry accounts for about 80 percent of total lead use.  A slow recovery will curb demand for lead in China, the
world’s largest producer and exporter of batteries made with the
metal, and damp a 51 percent gain in London prices over the past
year. Output of the metal has tumbled 23 percent from a record
in November amid high stockpiles. Battery plants and recyclers
in Zhejiang, Guangdong, Sichuan and Henan provinces suspended
production from mid-May after hundreds were poisoned.  “Many big manufacturers fail to meet the environmental
standards of maintaining a 500 meter safety zone around the
plant, while smaller operations meet the requirement and can
resume production,” Yao said.  Zhejiang Narada Power Source Co. said its unit in Ling’an
has resumed production on a three-month trial basis, while
another unit in Yuhang remained closed as it doesn’t meet
requirements, according to a June 24 statement to the Shenzhen
Stock Exchange. The company had suspended production for more
than a month, the statement said.  Demand Low  “A few small battery makers resuming production in
Zhejiang and Guangdong provinces won’t help to boost the demand
for lead in the short-term,” said Xiang Yu, an analyst at
 Shanghai  CIFCO Futures Co.  Zhejiang accounts for 32 percent of China’s total
production, while Guangdong, the second-largest producing
region, accounts for 13 percent, according to metals data
provider SMM Information and Technology Co.  Three-month lead on the London Metal Exchange gained 0.2
percent to $2,590 a ton at 4:14 p.m. in Shanghai.  Production of refined lead dropped 13 percent last month
from April to 345,000 tons, down from a record 448,000 tons in
November, according to the statistics bureau.  -- Helen Sun . Editors:  Richard Dobson , Ovais Subhani  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  