-- 
East African Energy Ministers May Decide on Oil Pipeline by October

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-06-29T13:13:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/east-african-energy-ministers-may-decide-on-pipeline-by-october.html
East African energy ministers may
decide by October on a proposal to build a natural  gas pipeline 
from Tanzania to  Kenya  to help meet the region’s rising energy
needs, a senior official said.  COWI A/S, a Danish engineering consultant, last week
published a study for the East Africa Community outlining four
 economically viable  overland routes for the pipeline, ranging in
cost between $515 million and $630 million.  “A petroleum council of ministers is next supposed to meet
in October, and they will likely then pick the best option,”
Peter Kinuthia, a senior energy officer at the  East African
Community , said by phone from Arusha, Tanzania today.  The five-nation EAC, comprising Kenya, Tanzania,  Uganda ,
Rwanda and Burundi, is a common market of 126 million people
with a combined gross domestic product of $73 billion.  All four routes proposed in the report envisioned the
pipeline running about 500 kilometers (310 miles) from
Tanzania’s commercial hub of  Dar es Salaam  through the northern
town of Tanga and ending at Kenya’s port city of Mombasa. It
could be operational by 2015, and an offshore alternative would
be too expensive, the study said.  The region’s governments are seeking to improve energy
infrastructure and ensure reliable electricity supplies to cater
for economic expansion and  population growth .  Tanzania began 12-hour daily power cuts last week after
drought reduced water levels in hydropower dams, the  Citizen 
newspaper reported on June 22.  There are two gas deposits in commercial production in
Tanzania. Songo Songo holds 1.5 trillion cubic feet of gas,
while Mnazi Bay, near the border with Mozambique, has 2 trillion
cubic feet, according to the state-run  Tanzania Petroleum
Development Corp.   Recent discoveries of natural gas off the coast of  Tanzania 
have taken the country’s total reserves to 7.5 trillion cubic
feet, enough to allow exports, the EAC said on Jan. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  