-- 
Eastern Europe Support for Democracy Slips in Crisis, Poll Shows

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-06-29T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/eastern-europe-support-for-democracy-slips-in-crisis-poll-shows.html
Eastern European support for
democracy has been eroded by the global financial crisis, which
cut living standards, a survey by the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development and the  World Bank  showed.  Backing for democracy as a preferable political system fell
last year in 18 of the 29 former communist countries where the
EBRD invests, compared with a previous survey in 2006, the
London-based lender said in a report today. In 11 nations, less
than 50 percent of the respondents "clearly" prefer democracy,
the survey showed.  "Of these, Latvia,  Lithuania  and Romania experienced
particularly sharp economic contractions during the crisis," the
report said. "This could explain their lower support levels for
a market economy, but it scarcely provides a reason for the
declining preference for democracy."  All of the Eastern European economies are growing for the
first time since 2008 after being the worst hit among emerging
markets by the global credit crunch with inflows of investments
and credit drying up.  The region needed bailouts totaling more than $100 billion
from creditors such as the  International Monetary Fund  and the
European Union and a banking crisis was averted by western banks
pledging to stay in the region and roll over funding to their
subsidiaries.  Romania, Lithuania and Latvia also recorded the biggest
declines in life satisfaction compared with 2006, according to
the survey.  Austerity Measures  Romania cut public wages by 25 percent, increased value-
added tax rates and shed public-sector jobs to meet conditions
for an international bailout. To bolster competitiveness and
defend their fixed exchange rates, Latvia implemented austerity
measures equal to 16 percent of gross domestic product, while
Lithuania’s efforts totaled 12 percent.      In nine of 10
eastern members of the European Union, "rather worryingly and
mirroring people’s preferences regarding the market economy,"
attitudes toward democracy have turned more negative since 2006,
with  Bulgaria  being the exception, the EBRD said in the report.  Support for democracy in  Sweden ,  Germany ,  France , the U.K.
and  Italy , studied as a control group, averaged almost 80
percent. The only former Soviet bloc countries with more than 70
percent backing were  Armenia ,  Georgia , Tajikistan and
Uzbekistan, the survey showed.  Market Appeal  Support for democracy exceeds the appeal of the market
economy, according to the report. On average, 45 percent of
respondents chose democracy under any circumstances over other
political systems, compared with a 40 percent unequivocal
backing for market economy, the results showed.  The survey also detected a "dramatic deterioration" in  the
quality of life, with 70 percent of households that said they
were affected by the financial crisis having cut down on
spending on food staples and health care, twice the proportion
of households in the five western European countries, the report
said.  Life satisfaction was the lowest in Romania, followed by
Hungary and Armenia, while it was the highest in Tajikistan,
Uzbekistan and Slovenia, according to the survey.  Eastern Europeans have more faith that future generations
will have better  living standards  than current ones than
wealthier nations in western  Europe . While optimism about the
future has declined since 2006, to 49 percent from 55 percent,
it held higher than in the five western European nations, the
report said.  The EBRD in May raised its 2011 economic growth forecast
for the 29 countries in which it invests to 4.6 percent from the
4.2 percent predicted in January. It expects growth to slow to
4.4 percent next year.  The Life in Transition survey was conducted in late 2010
and polled 39,000 households in 29 of the EBRD’s recipient
countries and in Sweden, Germany, France, the U.K. and Italy for
comparison. No margin of error was given.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  