-- 
Technology Leaders Don’t See U.S. Recovery Until 2013, KPMG Says

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-06-29T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/technology-leaders-don-t-see-u-s-recovery-until-2013-kpmg-says.html
Technology executives are pushing
back their hopes for an economic recovery and for hiring at
their companies,  KPMG LLP  said.  In a survey of 102 executives by the tax, auditing and
consulting firm, technology leaders now project the U.S.
economic recovery to be two years away instead of taking hold in
2012, as they predicted last year.  “Companies are less optimistic this year than they were a
year ago,” Gary Matuszak, global chairman and U.S. leader for
 KPMG ’s technology, communications and entertainment practice,
said in an interview. Many companies had an easier time showing
growth last year after the dismal performance of 2009, he said.  The 2011 survey shows hiring remains muted, with 49 percent
of the executives expecting headcount to increase during the
next year, from 72 percent a year earlier. Forty-two percent of
the respondents said their companies’ headcount would return to
pre-recession levels over the next 18 months, while 21 percent
said their headcount will never return to those levels, the
survey showed.  Fifty-two percent of technology companies surveyed said the
U.S. market will lead their growth in the next 12 months,
followed by  China ,  Brazil  and  India . A similar survey conducted
in 2010 showed the U.S. trailing China and Brazil.  Most of the executives expect U.S. growth to be driven by
cloud computing. According to the survey, 65 percent ranked
cloud computing as the biggest revenue driver, up from 55
percent a year earlier, followed by mobile applications and
advanced data analytics. Cloud computing allows companies to
store their files and applications in remote data centers,
rather than on local hard drives.  Eight out of 10 technology executives said they expect
their company will be involved in a merger or acquisition in the
next two years, mostly to gain access to new technology and
products. Sixty-eight percent said they will likely be involved
as a buyer and 15 percent as a seller.  KPMG surveyed 71 people at software and hardware companies
with revenue of more than $1 billion, and 31 people in companies
with revenue between $100 million and $1 billion.  Editors: Jasmina Kelemen, Bob Brennan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland ,  Oregon , at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 