-- 
Technos Prices IPO at Low End of Range as Bovespa Trails Peers in Quarter

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-06-29T03:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/technos-prices-ipo-at-low-end-of-range-as-bovespa-trails-peers-in-quarter.html
Technos SA , a Brazilian watchmaker,
priced its initial public offering at the bottom of the proposed
range as the country’s benchmark stock index trails gauges in
the largest emerging markets this quarter.  Technos and its shareholders raised as much as 461.6
million reais ($293 million) at 16.50 reais a share after
planning to price the stock as high as 20.50 reais, the company
said in a regulatory filing yesterday.  BR Properties SA (BRPR3) , the
property developer that sold shares to the public for the first
time in March 2010, is raising as much as 690.3 million reais in
a primary offering, according to a filing.  Rising interest rates and slumping share prices are holding
back IPOs in Brazil, with companies scaling back or canceling
sales. The Bovespa index is the worst performer among the so-
called BRIC nations of Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and  China  this
quarter, dropping 9.2 percent as the central bank raised
benchmark borrowing costs by 1.5 percentage point this year to
12.25 percent.  “Even though the market is going through a rough patch,
companies keep selling shares,” Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps
oversee 70 million reais at Leme Investimentos in Florianopolis,
 Brazil , said in a telephone interview yesterday. “It could be a
sign that the Brazilian market is more mature now, so companies
decide to sell shares even if the short-term outlook doesn’t
look very promising.”  International Buyers  According to a person familiar with the transaction who
asked not to be identified because she isn’t authorized to speak
publicly, 60 percent of the Technos sale went to Brazilian
investors or international funds already in Brazil and 40
percent to investors outside Brazil. International investors
typically take about 70 percent, said the person.  Twenty-one other Brazilian companies have raised 14 billion
reais by selling shares this year, a 7.3 percent increase from
the same period last year.  Itau BBA is coordinating Technos’ sale with Credit Suisse
Group AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s local units.  BR Properties is selling as many as 40.3 million shares for
17.15 reais each, according to its filing. Itau BBA SA, Banco
Bradesco BBI SA, Banco Santander Brasil SA and Banco J.Safra SA
are coordinating BR Properties’ sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  