-- 
Medtronic’s Infuse Studies Failed to Report Serious Risks, Surgeons Say

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-06-29T20:14:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/medtronic-s-infuse-studies-failed-to-report-serious-risks-surgeons-say.html
Studies funded by  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) 
failed to disclose serious side effects associated with the
company’s Infuse bone-growth treatment, misleading doctors about
its safety and causing unnecessary use of the product, a series
of articles reported.  No side effects were reported in 13 clinical trials funded
by Minneapolis-based Medtronic, while data provided to  U.S.
regulators  showed as many as half of patients had complications
including infections, pain, cyst formation and cancer, a review
in  The Spine Journal  found. The report said financial ties
between Medtronic and researchers weren’t clearly disclosed.  Doctors began raising questions about Infuse shortly after
its approval in 2002 for spinal fusion when patients started
experiencing unanticipated side effects, said  Eugene Carragee ,
chief of spinal surgery at Stanford School of Medicine near  Palo
Alto ,  California , who led the review. Carragee published a
report last month showing the device can lead to infertility in
men. The U.S. Senate Finance Committee last week asked Medtronic
to detail payments to doctors who conducted research on Infuse.  “We don’t think it should be pulled from the market, but
people need to have a realistic idea of what the risks are,”
Carragee said in a telephone interview. “Patients and families
should have a discussion with their doctors that’s not based on
the idea that there are no complications.”  Two reviews, two studies and an editorial appeared in  The
Spine Journal  yesterday devoted to Infuse, a genetically
engineered protein used to spur the growth of new bone after
spinal surgery. Medtronic’s 13 clinical trials involved 780
patients, according to the review.  Medtronic declined 92 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $38.09 at
4:05 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have gained 2.7 percent this year.  Medtronic CEO Response  The articles raise questions about the researchers’
conclusions, not the data Medtronic submitted to the U.S.  Food
and Drug Administration  to gain approval of Infuse or the
information that is available today on how to use the product,
said Omar Ishrak, Medtronic’s chairman and chief executive
officer, in a statement. The company “strongly believes” in
the safety of the product for its approved uses, he said.  The company plans to convene an independent panel of spinal
surgeons and outside researchers to examine the concerns raised
by the journal, said Richard Kuntz, chief scientific, clinical
and regulatory officer for Medtronic, in a telephone interview.
The company tracks the side effects from its products closely,
and has been watching for any problems from Infuse, especially
cancer and infection, he said.  No ‘Smoking Gun’  “I am not aware that there is any smoking gun out there
that is a real issue,” Kuntz said. “I have to respect the
issues raised by this journal and look into it.”  One of the studies disputes the severity of pain stemming
from removal of bone from the hip to use during a spinal fusion,
one of the main reasons patients and surgeons turn to Infuse.
Two other articles examine Infuse’s potential impact on the
nervous system and the reabsorption of bone.  Medtronic, the world’s largest maker of heart devices,
generated $3.4 billion in sales from its spinal unit in the 2011
fiscal year ended April 29, according to Bloomberg data.
Medtronic doesn’t specify Infuse revenue in its earnings
reports.  The report also found that the financial ties between the
company and the researchers weren’t clearly disclosed and the
trials may have been designed in a way to make standard
alternatives for spinal fusion look bad. Authors of the 13
studies reviewed had significant ties to Medtronic, with a
median financial support of $12 million to $16 million,
according to the article.  “It is hoped that lessons can be learned from this era in
spinal research and publication,” the researchers wrote in one
of the reviews in the Spine Journal. “Such lessons might prove
valuable in the future, allowing us to better serve not only our
community of researchers and clinicians but especially our
patients who rely on the expeditious but safe introduction of
new technologies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  