-- 
Teen Substance Abuse Is Top U.S. Health Issue, Study Says

-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 
2011-06-29T15:24:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/teen-substance-abuse-is-top-u-s-health-issue-study-says-1-.html
Ninety percent of American
alcoholics and drug addicts began their habits before age 18,
making adolescent substance abuse the biggest U.S. public health
problem, researchers say.  People who drink alcohol or take drugs before age 18 are
five times more likely to become addicted than those who begin
after 21, according to a study today by the  National Center on
Addiction and Substance Abuse  at  New York ’s  Columbia University .
While drug usage overall by teens has declined since 1999, one
in eight high-school students is addicted to alcohol or another
substance, said Susan Foster, the lead author of the report.  Efforts in the past decade that curbed underage drinking
and drug usage may be losing their effect, the researchers said.
Substance use contributes to unintentional injury, homicide and
suicide, the top three causes of adolescent death, the study
said. Juvenile justice costs for substance-related cases were at
least $14 billion, while U.S. and state governments spent $207.2
billion in 2005 on health-care costs for substance use and
addiction, a problem the study said starts in the teen years.  “It’s shocking to see how many high-school students meet
clinical definitions for an addictive disease,” Foster, vice
president and director of policy research and analysis for the
addiction center, said in an interview.  Ten Million Users  Researchers analyzed data from surveys of students,
parents, school personnel, health officials, scientific articles
and professional interviews. Ten million high-school students,
or 76 percent, say they have used addictive substances such as
cigarettes, alcohol, marijuana or cocaine, the report found.
Only 6 percent of addicted kids seek treatment, Foster said.  U.S. and state governments are doing little to combat the
problem, said Jim Ramstad, chairman of the substance abuse
center’s national advisory commission. He said 70 percent of
government resources are spent on the results of the abuse, and
30 percent on prevention.  “It should be in reverse,” Ramstad said in an interview.
“We should be spending money on preventative methods but
instead we turn a blind eye.”  Alcohol was the preferred substance among high-school
students, researchers found, with 73 percent saying they have
drunk alcohol at least once. Cigarettes are the second-most
popular at 46 percent, and 65 percent of students said they have
used more than one substance.  Smokeless Tobacco  The report found the number of teens using smokeless
tobacco increased to 8.9 percent in 2009 from 6.7 percent in
2003. High-school students who said they were using marijuana
rose to 21 percent in 2009 from 20 percent in 2007, and those
misusing prescription drugs rose to 4 percent in 2009 from 3.5
percent a year earlier.  Parents of children who have tried alcohol or drugs are
about twice as likely to believe they have no control over their
child’s choice, according to the report. And parents are three
times as likely to believe that their children’s friends drink
and drive as they are to believe that their own children do so,
suggesting they don’t recognize the risks of drug and alcohol
abuse in their teenagers, the report said.  “It comes down to engagement with their kids,” Foster
said. “Where are they? Who are they friends with? Parents need
to set rules and expectations, limits, and tell their teens
what’s OK and what isn’t.”  While alcohol and cigarette use has declined since 1999,
the rate of smokeless tobacco use is increasing, and marijuana
use may also be on the rise, the study said.  ‘Epidemic Levels’  “The good news is that there has been an actual decline,”
Foster said. “But the problem is still at epidemic levels. Many
of those improvements we once saw are stalling, and there is an
uptrend in some use.”  Previous research has shown an increasing number of kids
who use marijuana 20 or more times within a 30-day period, said
 Lloyd Johnston , a professor at the University of  Michigan ’s
Institute for Social Research in  Ann Arbor , Michigan.  “Substance abuse remains a problem,” said Johnston,
principal investigator for the institute’s Youth, Education and
Society study. “We’re not down to levels that are pre-1960’s by
any means, but there is forward inertia to the problem because
kids that grow up in each new generation learn a lot more about
drugs that each new generation teaches them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Renick in New York at 
 orenick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 