-- 
Megabus Plans California, Texas Hubs

-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 
2011-06-29T09:27:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/megabus-plans-california-texas-hubs-to-ride-budget-travel-boom.html
Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC)  plans to extend
its Megabus long-distance bus service to  California , Florida and
 Texas  to tap surging demand from cost-conscious U.S. travelers.  Megabus  aims to build hub-and-spoke networks in the three
states in a nationwide extension of a system based on Chicago,
 New York , Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and  Washington , Stagecoach
Finance Director Martin Griffiths said today in an interview.  “We’ve come a long way in a short period of time and the
plan is to continue to grow and to grow aggressively,” he said.
“Americans like their comfort, but they also like value,
particularly with the way things have been with the economy.”  Stagecoach’s  Coach USA  unit, now limited to the northeast,
Midwest and  Canada , once operated a broader North American
business focused mainly on shorter routes and charter services,
Griffiths said. Megabus, established in 2006, offers fares from
$1 for services as long as 3.5 to 8 hours and competes mainly
with discount airlines and the private car, he said.  “The next stage is to roll it into parts of the U.S. where
we don’t have any infrastructure -- meaning depots -- right
now,” the executive said by telephone. “We would like to go back
to California, Texas and Florida with this product in the next
few years because we think there is a huge opportunity there.”  Megabus, which currently serves about 60 destinations from
its five hubs, carried out trials in the Los Angeles-San
Francisco-Las Vegas triangle a few years ago before opting to
focus on markets further east, Griffiths said.  Internet Access   Sluggish U.S. growth has since pushed more people to take
the bus, with the world’s largest economy expanding at a 1.9
percent pace in the first quarter and the jobless rate climbing
to 9.1 percent in April. There’s also wider acceptance of bus
travel, with business people increasingly opting for that mode
of transport instead of driving so that they can work en route,
especially where flying isn’t an option, the finance chief said.  “The economic conditions have helped, but when we get them
most people generally like the experience,” Griffiths said. “The
trick is to offer quality, comfort and the internet at a price
that’s attractive.” Bus-based rivals include  Greyhound Express 
and  BoltBus , units of Aberdeen, Scotland-based  FirstGroup Plc. (FGP)   Stagecoach, which also runs rail businesses including
Southwest Trains, Britain’s biggest commuter franchise, boosted
net income 58 percent to 176.4 million pounds ($282 million) in
the year ended April 30 as sales advanced 10 percent to 2.39
billion pounds, it said today in a statement.  Perth, Scotland-based Stagecoach said that the outlook for
bus and rail services is “positive.” Its stock was little
changed at 249.8 pence as of 9:58 a.m. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  