-- 
Egyptian Shares Drop to Month-Low After Tahrir Square Clashes

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-06-29T10:27:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/egyptian-shares-drop-to-month-low-after-tahrir-square-clashes.html
Egyptian stocks declined to the
lowest level in almost a month after clashes between police and
protesters in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  injured at least 43 people.  Talaat Moustafa Group (TMGH)  Holding, the nation’s biggest
publicly traded property developer, fell 4 percent. EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE headed for the lowest close since May 24. The
benchmark EGX30 Index retreated 1 percent to 5,337.54, the
lowest intraday level since June 2, as of 11:44 a.m. in Cairo.  The clashes were the most violent since April 9 in the
downtown square, the epicenter of demonstrations that ended
former President Hosni Mubarak’s three-decade rule in February.
 Egypt ’s bourse resumed trading on March 23 following a two-month
suspension amid the unrest. The benchmark  stock index  has
declined 5.5 percent since then.  “The fighting wasn’t big but it’s still worrying for some
investors because the situation may escalate,” said Ashraf
Akhnoukh, senior equity sales trader at Cairo-based Commercial
International Brokerage. “The low volume is a good indication
that people are not panicking.”  Security forces fired tear gas to disperse protesters who
responded by pelting them with stones, the state-run Middle East
 News Agency  reported. One hospital received 43 wounded,
including 41 members of the security forces, MENA said, citing
Mohammed Saeed, a doctor at El-Moneera hospital.  Talaat Moustafa lost the most since June 2 to 4.80 Egyptian
pounds. EFG-Hermes, the biggest publicly traded investment bank,
declined 2.3 percent to 20.05 pounds. About 45 million shares
valued at 181 million pounds ($30 million) were traded in Cairo
so far today, compared with a six-month daily average of 102
million shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  