-- 
Lehman Gets Goldman, Paulson Consent on Liquidation Plan

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-06-30T18:46:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/lehman-reaches-agreement-in-principle-with-creditors-on-liquidation-plan.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
resolving a dispute that threatened to delay its exit from
bankruptcy, won consent for a $65 billion liquidation plan from
derivatives creditors including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
bondholders led by hedge fund Paulson & Co.  The new plan gives more money to holders of guaranteed
claims against the defunct firm’s derivatives and treasury
units, including Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and hedge fund
Silver Point Capital LP, Lehman said yesterday. The Paulson
group, which includes the  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , or Calpers, would get less than previously
proposed.  Once the world’s fourth-biggest investment bank, Lehman
fought the Paulson group and the rival group of derivatives
creditors for months over control of its liquidation plan.
Lehman, which entered bankruptcy almost three years ago, has
twice amended its proposals to pay claims in response to
creditor challenges.  “Substantially all” of the proponents of the competing
plans are backing the latest proposal after “intense
negotiations” this month, Lehman said in filings yesterday in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  The Goldman Sachs-Silver Point group signed its consent to
Lehman’s plan yesterday, according to a creditor who declined to
be identified because the proceedings are confidential. The
Paulson group and Lehman’s official creditors committee also
signed their support, the person said.  Litigation Threat  Lehman Chief Executive Officer Bryan Marsal declined to
comment, as did Goldman Sachs spokeswoman Andrea Raphael. Gerard
Uzzi, a lawyer for the Paulson group, and Dennis Dunne, a lawyer
for the creditors committee, didn’t immediately return calls
seeking comment.  The compromise reached by Marsal, who has been selling
assets to pay creditors, ends the threat of “protracted
litigation” over the plan, the firm said.  The Goldman Sachs-Silver Point group said in April that
Lehman’s earlier proposal was “highly unlikely” to succeed and
contained “gifts” to bondholders that other creditors hadn’t
approved.  Calpers, which disclosed that it paid more than 100 cents
on the dollar for some of its Lehman bonds, responded that the
Goldman Sachs group’s plan treated retirees “unfairly.”  Harvey Miller , Lehman’s lead bankruptcy lawyer, said in a filing the
Paulson-Calpers plan “presents the parochial interests” of the
group. Referring to the Goldman Sachs group, he said “the Big
Banks assert extraordinarily large unresolved claims.”  Paulson Purchases  The hedge fund headed by  John Paulson , who earned an
estimated $4.9 billion in 2010, paid as little as 9 cents on the
dollar for some of its Lehman bonds, according to court papers.  Lehman said it will seek approval of the disclosure
statement explaining the plan at an Aug. 30 hearing, allowing it
to be sent to creditors for a vote. Objections to the disclosure
statement are due by Aug. 11 and ballots must be in hand by Nov.
4.  Marsal told CNBC on June 16 that he expects to begin making
distributions in the first quarter of next year. Lehman so far
has raised $25 billion to $27 billion in cash, Marsal said in
the CNBC interview.  Under the new plan, Lehman’s derivatives unit will
distribute $14.2 billion to creditors while the allowed treasury
claim is $34.5 billion. Derivatives claims would be paid 27.9
cents to 32 cents on the dollar, while commercial paper claims
would get 48.4 cents to 55.7 cents, court papers show.  Guaranteed Claims  A guaranteed claim against Lehman’s special financing unit
would get 27.9 cents on the dollar, plus more than 11 cents from
a guarantee by the Lehman parent, or a total of about 39 cents.
That is an increase from Lehman’s earlier plan, though less than
the more than 40 cents proposed by the Goldman Sachs group.  Lehman senior bondholders would recover 21.1 cents on the
dollar under the new plan, compared with 21.4 cents under the
firm’s previous proposal. The Paulson-Calpers group filed its
own liquidation plan in April that would have paid bondholders
25.4 cents on the dollar, up from 24.5 cents under a plan filed
in December. Senior bondholders were offered 16 cents in the
Goldman Sachs- Morgan Stanley (MS)  proposal.  General unsecured claims would receive 19.9 cents on the
dollar under the new plan. Claims tied to so-called Racers would
be capped at $9 billion, Lehman said. Racers, or Restructured
Assets with Enhanced Returns, were securities devised by Lehman
using repurchase agreements and guarantees, according to a
regulatory filing.  ‘Consensual Resolution’  The plan agreement is “in principle” and Lehman still
seeks “consensual resolution” of structured securities claims
totaling $55 billion, according to yesterday’s filings. A
hearing is scheduled for July 20 on valuing creditor claims.  Lehman bonds rose to the highest since June 7 after the
agreement was announced. Lehman’s $4 billion of 5.625 percent
bonds due in January 2013 rose 0.5 cent to 26.1 cents on the
dollar at 2:12 p.m. yesterday in  New York , according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Lehman last month proposed a framework to settle claims
from Goldman Sachs,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and 11 other banks that
were its largest derivatives counterparties. Lehman sought to
avoid court fights with the banks and help resolve the
bankruptcy case so it can pay creditors, according to a summary
of the proposal made public on May 31.  About 30 financial institutions filed about $22 billion of
derivatives claims, which Lehman estimated would be reduced to
about $11 billion, the firm said then.  Bondholder Recoveries  Under Lehman’s amended plan, part of the bondholders’
recoveries would come from 20 percent of guarantees owed to
other creditors, according to yesterday’s filings.  Lehman filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008, with assets
of $639 billion. The firm has paid about $1.3 billion in fees to
managers and advisers since then, according to court papers.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 