-- 
Melrose Makes $2 Billion Preliminary Approach for Charter

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-06-29T13:12:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/melrose-makes-2-billion-preliminary-approach-for-charter-1-.html
Melrose Plc (MRO) , the U.K. investment
firm run by a former team at industrial company Wassall Plc,
proposed to buy  Charter International Plc (CHTR)  in an offer valuing
the engineer at about 1.3 billion pounds ($2 billion).  Melrose is seeking to enter talks with Charter after
indicating it may make a cash-and-share bid valuing the company
at 780 pence, 30 percent higher than its pre-approach close, it
said in a statement today. Charter, which will meet to discuss
the offer internally, surged as much as 29 percent to 794 pence
in London trading.  The approach comes as the welding and automation-equipment
maker is in a state of flux after the sudden departure of Chief
Executive Officer Michael Foster this week. The company, which
is searching for a new CEO, on June 20 signaled full-year profit
will be below initial forecasts and announced a fresh wave of
cost cutting, sending its shares down 25 percent.  “The board will meet to consider this unsolicited
approach,” Charter said in a statement, adding that the
proposal is “highly preliminary, conditional and
opportunistic.”  Poor Management  Melrose’s mission is to seek out underperforming companies,
Chief Financial Officer Geoff Martin said in a March 9
interview. Businesses with poor management and those that are
suffering from raw-material costs or under-investing in
factories make viable targets, he said at the time.  Charter had climbed 28 percent to 785 pence as of 12:33
p.m. local time, indicating some investors see the potential for
a higher offer or counterbid.  Blackrock Inc. (BLK)  owns stakes in both
companies, Bloomberg data shows.  Lincoln Electric Holdings Inc. (LECO) ,
a rival maker of welding machines in the U.S., made a failed bid
worth $565 million in 2000.  Charter closed a factory in  Ohio  and plans to shave a
further 30 million pounds from costs over the next 12 to 18
months. Welding-equipment division ESAB is slowing production as
it grapples with rising raw-material costs and competition.  The U.K. company is the latest British engineer to be the
focus of an approach.  Emerson Electric Co. (EMR)  purchased Chloride
Group Ltd. for $1.6 billion last year, beating off a rival
approach from  Switzerland ’s ABB Ltd.  De La Rue Plc (DLAR) , a printer of
banknotes, got an offer from Francois-Charles Oberthur
Fiduciaire SA that fell through.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  