-- 
Emerging Markets Will Press Lagarde for IMF Governance Changes

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-06-29T00:09:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/emerging-markets-will-press-lagarde-to-deliver-on-imf-governance-overhaul.html
Christine Lagarde  won the support of
emerging-market nations for her successful bid to become
managing director of the  International Monetary Fund  by
promising them greater influence at the global lender. Now
she’ll be under pressure to deliver.  Lagarde, the French finance minister, yesterday was
selected by the Washington-based IMF’s board over her sole
rival,  Mexico ’s Agustin Carstens. She garnered endorsements from
emerging economies such as India and Brazil as well as European
Union countries and the U.S.  “Lagarde had to send some signals, if not make some actual
deals, with emerging market countries to be able to get in,”
Kevin Gallagher, associate professor of international relations
at Boston University, said in a telephone interview. “They’re
going to hold her accountable or she’s going to have a rough
time there.”  In the course of an election-style campaign that took her
to  Brazil , China and the Middle East, Lagarde promised to boost
the clout of developing nations at the IMF and to give more
management jobs to people from those countries.  Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega was among those
calling for an end to a six-decade informal agreement under
which a European has always headed the IMF, while an American
leads the  World Bank . He called instead for a merit-based
selection process.  Brazil ended up supporting Lagarde because of her
commitment to quickly carry out a 2010 agreement to increase the
voting power of some emerging nations, the country’s finance
ministry said in a statement yesterday.  ‘Big Issue’  “The big issue for emerging markets is their quota, their
ownership stake at the fund,” said  Simon Johnson , a former IMF
chief economist.  China , the world’s second-largest economy, has
a 3.8 percent vote in the fund -- also known as a quota -- while
the U.S. has 16.8 percent.  The 2010 agreement also weakens the influence of advanced
European economies, which pledged to reduce the number of seats
they hold on the IMF’s 24-person executive board.  “The Europeans have been under considerable political
pressure to scale back their voting share,” Michael Mussa, a
former chief economist at the IMF, said in an interview.  Johnson predicted that Lagarde will create a fourth deputy
managing director’s position and give the job to a Chinese
national.  Lagarde said she is aiming for diversity in gender, country
of origin and academic background to fight the “group
thinking” that an internal audit last year said contributed to
missing signs of the 2008 financial crisis.  Senior Positions  An internal IMF report released last month said the share
of senior positions filled by employees from  Africa , East Asia,
the  Middle East  and so-called “transition countries,” which
include most of Eastern  Europe , is “unacceptably small.”  “It’s not that the fund is totally dominated by the
advanced countries, but obviously at the staff level and the
board level the voice of the emerging countries will have to be
heard more clearly,” said Claudio Loser, a former Western
Hemisphere director at the IMF who supported Carstens’
candidacy.  Carstens, the Mexican central bank governor and a former
IMF deputy managing director, was supported by most Latin
American countries and also garnered endorsements from  Canada 
and  Australia .  Emerging-market nations seeking to break Europe’s monopoly
of the IMF managing directorship failed to unite behind a
candidate, while European nations quickly closed ranks behind
Lagarde, said Morris Goldstein, a senior fellow at the
Washington-based Peterson Institute for International Economics.  Established Tradition  “If you want to upset the established tradition and talk
about increasing your weight, you have to have some kind of
caucus, some kind of procedure, by which you can come together
relatively quickly,” he said.  Still, the presence of a qualified emerging-markets
candidate like Carstens offers hope for change next time, said
Loser, president of Washington-based research company Centennial
Group  Latin America .  “The process has opened the door for the emerging markets
to come in,” he said by telephone from Mendoza,  Argentina .
“This is the last time where the Europeans can present a
candidacy the way they did because they’ll have to compete on
much more equal footing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Randy Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  