-- 
English Summer of Cuddly Tories and Hard-Line Labour: A.A. Gill

-- B y   A . A .   G i l l
-- 
2011-06-29T04:01:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/english-summer-of-cuddly-tories-and-hard-line-labour-a-a-gill.html
A balmy spring is turning into a
nutty British summer. This is, traditionally, a time when
politicians let their sartorial guard, and the voters, down.  One whiff of SPF 40 and a glimpse of their new wife-bought
shorts with the puce hibiscus, and they say the first thing that
comes into their receding heads.  We’ve just had a party leader call for those who have jobs
to be given priority to jump the line for public housing, saying
that he isn’t going to lead the party for so-called scroungers.
We’ve had another party leader insist that, despite the flat-
lining economy, he thinks we should still give 0.7 percent of
gross domestic product as foreign aid, which will make Britain
one of the most charitable nations in the world.  Neither of these are exceptional statements: What makes
them odd is that the first was made by  Ed Miliband  -- “Red Ed” -
- leader of the Labour party, while the second was proposed by
toff at the top,  David Cameron , the Conservative prime minister.  The traditional left and right in British politics are
tearing the shirts off each other’s backs to see whether they
fit, tapping the enemy’s messages, stealing their best lines.
We’ve had  Tony Blair , the old New Labour prime minister, say
that he supports the Tory government’s economic strategy, and a
Labour shadow chancellor,  Ed Balls , demand an immediate cut on
the value-added tax.  The Conservatives are defying the tabloids by talking about
cutting prison sentences and retreating from plans to privatize
parts of the  National Health Service , while explaining that this
is flexible, sensitive government. No one has accused the Tories
of being sensitive about anything except blood sports and
military bands in 200 years.  Labour Versus Labor  The autumn looks like it’ll be a harvest of orchestrated
public service strikes. The Labour Party is dreading them; the
Tories are looking forward to the fight. Miliband sees organized
labor as a liability; the government sees it as a vote-winner.  So, hang on. How are any of us supposed to know who’s who?
Which tribe do we belong to? What’s happening out there?  Well, there are some clues. Having gracelessly lost the
last election, the  Labour Party  has, in the nature of graceless
socialist losers, contrived to make it all much worse by
electing the wrong gunfighter as  leader . Some observers from the
“Sex and the City” school of political commentary point out,
though, that Miliband is what’s known as their “transitional
guy,” the rebound boyfriend, the one who takes the edge off the
hurt. He’s not supposed to stick around.  Miliband is a long way to the left of New Labour, and, in
the face of rising party frustration and a queue of grinning
Brutuses, he’s trying to shuffle to the center without moving.
So the other day he let it be known that he was a sneaking fan
of  Margaret Thatcher : in theory, not practice, obviously.  Tories Getting Cuddly  The Conservative Party, having achieved power without
actually winning the election (it is in a forced marriage with
the Liberal Democrats), is just as desperately trying to look
socially cuddly and liberal. By conviction Cameron is what we
call a One Nation Tory, from the shallow end of the party. After
13 years in opposition, he wants to occupy as much of the middle
as possible, and at the same time disengage his own frothingly
combative right wing.  He, bizarrely, sees himself as the natural heir to Tony
Blair. His pet policy, the  Big Society  -- a sort of
volunteerist, inclusive scouting-for-citizens -- reduces both
the Labourites and his own flag-wrapped fellow Tories to eye-
rolling mockery.  Special-Interest Wonks  If you think all that’s confusing, then join the rest of
the country. The Labour Party has been holed below the
waterline, its New Labour experiment torn down to reveal that
the Old Labour certainties no longer exist. It consists of a
disparate and bad-tempered group of special-interest wonks,
bobbing in the lifeboats of the socialist movement.  The  Conservative Party , too, has been routed by the
election and the experience of a coalition with the Liberal
Democrats. It has jettisoned the old shibboleths, like aircraft
carriers, Scottish regiments, monetarism, privatization and
neckties.  Both sides seem to realize that for the foreseeable future,
it’s going to be about who can stand the longest on the pivot of
events and put a smiley face on the fiscal hardships. No one
wants the vision thing at the moment, or the testosterone
buzzwords of leadership.  All About Empathy  It’s now all about empathy: Changing your mind is the new
horizon. The biggest change is that perhaps all of this is a
natural consequence of a century of fully emancipated democracy
-- political Darwinism, where the extremes die out and the
grosser injustices are whittled away. As the differences grow
smooth, to stray from the path of the fittest is to court
extinction.  Perhaps it’s just a domestic hiatus after a terrible fiscal
accident: political bed rest, while the big economic decisions
are being made by Brussels, Berlin and Beijing.  Either way, it’s a fair bet that the Conservative and
Labour parties that square up behind Cameron and Miliband at the
next election will be very different from those that gathered
around Thatcher and Blair.  (A.A. Gill is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
 aagill1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 