-- 
Leonard Green, CVC to Buy BJ’s Wholesale for $2.8 Billion

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-06-29T15:55:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/leonard-green-partners-will-acquire-bj-s-wholesale-club-for-2-8-billion.html
Leonard Green  & Partners LP and  CVC
Capital Partners  agreed to buy  BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc. (BJ)  for $2.8
billion, gaining the third-largest U.S. warehouse-club chain.  BJ’s investors will receive $51.25 in cash for each share
they hold, the companies said today in a statement. That’s 6.6
percent more than Westborough, Massachusetts-based BJ’s closing
price yesterday.  The takeover gives the firms BJ’s 190 wholesale clubs in 15
U.S. states for a valuation of about 7.1 times earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, less than the 8.9
times median multiple of six industry deals in the past five
years. Using the same valuation as Leonard Green’s pending
buyout of 99 Cents Only Stores, BJ’s would have garnered a price
of about $57 a share.  “This was an opportunistic price -- management wanted to
get it done,”  Brian Sozzi , an analyst at Wall Street Strategies
Inc. in  New York , said today in an interview. “As a
shareholder, you don’t want to see this type of deal and
haggling going into the holiday season.”  BJ’s rose $2.18, or 4.5 percent, to $50.26 at 11:45 a.m. in
New York Stock Exchange Composite trading. The shares had gained
less than 1 percent this year before today.  Retail Investments  Leonard Green, which manages about $9 billion, has taken
part in at least five retail deals in the past year, including
offers for fabric seller  Jo-Ann Stores Inc. (JAS)  and J. Crew Group
Inc. The firm also has holdings in Whole Foods Market Inc., the
largest U.S. natural-goods grocer, and Petco Animal Supplies
Inc.  The transaction may close in the fourth quarter, the
companies said. Today’s offer is a 38 percent premium compared
with BJ’s closing price as of June 30, 2010, when Leonard Green
disclosed it owned 9.5 percent of the stock.  BJ’s, No. 3 after  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  and  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Sam’s Club, is a membership-based warehouse club
offering food, household products, apparel and  office equipment .  “BJ’s is primarily an East Coast retailer at this point,”
Sozzi said. “CVC and Leonard Green will have to invest a
considerable amount of money to expand to the West Coast.”  Industry Acquisitions  The average premium for 22 pending or completed
acquisitions of North American retail-discount store companies
in the past five years was 20 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The biggest was the proposed $7.7 billion
acquisition of Family Dollar Stores Inc. by Trian Fund
Management in February.  Family Dollar rejected Trian’s offer in March, and Trian
has since urged the retailer to reconsider.  Zayre Corp., now known as TJX Cos., opened the first BJ’s
in Medford,  Massachusetts  in 1984, and named it after executive
Mervin Weich’s wife, Barbara Jane, according to Hoovers.com.
BJ’s became part of Zayre’s Waban Inc. unit, which then spun off
BJ’s in 1997.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  provided financial advice to BJs, and Wilmer
Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP provided legal counsel.
Potter Anderson & Corroon LLP served as legal counsel to BJ’s
committee of independent directors, according to the statement.  Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Citigroup Global Markets
Inc., Barclays Capital Inc. and Jefferies & Co. acted as
financial advisers to CVC and Leonard Green, while General
Electric Capital Corp. and Wells Fargo Capital Finance LLC
provided financing.  Latham & Watkins LLP provided legal advice to Leonard Green
while Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP advised CVC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in New York at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  