-- 
Equatorial Guinea to Spend $4 Billion on Second Plant to Double LNG Output

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-06-29T13:10:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/equatorial-guinea-to-build-second-lng-plant-to-double-output.html
Equatorial Guinea  will build a
second liquefied natural gas plant at a cost of $4 billion to
double LNG output, the head of the state-owned gas company said.  “Definitely, there’ll be a second plant,” said Juan
Antonio Ndong Ondo, director general of Sociedad Nacional de
Gas, or  Sonagas , in a June 27 interview. “We’ve had some new
discoveries so we can go ahead with it. In principle we can
double our current production.”  The West African nation’s second LNG plant, or train, will
produce 1.8 billion to 4.6 billion cubic feet a day, Ndong said
in the capital of Malabo. Capacity will depend upon discovered
reserves early next year when Sonagas and partners  Noble Energy
Inc. (NBL)  and Ophir Energy Plc decide on the investment.  Equatorial Guinea, tucked into the Gulf of Guinea,
currently produces 3.4 billion cubic feet of LNG a day. The
second plant may start producing by 2016, Ndong said. The nation
has about 8.5 trillion cubic feet of proved natural-gas
reserves, according to Sonagas.  Oil and gas prices will continue to rise as countries
switch back toward fossil fuels after the nuclear disaster in
 Japan  this year, Ndong said. “We believe prices will be very
positive for us in the future,” he said.  Nigeria and Cameroon are considering ways of transferring
gas to their smaller neighbor, further allowing it to ramp up
production, the director general said.  “There are initiatives to collaborate in the collection of
gas that’s being burnt,” he said. “We won’t depend on them
though, we’ll see what our own reserves are first.”  Sonagas is also currently considering a petrochemicals
plant, Ndong said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Malabo at   fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 