-- 
ERB Plans $1.3 Billion Tree-to-Energy Plants at Brazil Factories

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-06-29T17:00:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/erb-plans-1-3-billion-tree-to-energy-plants-at-brazil-factories.html
ERB - Energias Renovaveis do Brasil ,
a Brazilian developer of biomass energy, may invest as much as 2
billion reais ($1.3 billion) to build dedicated  power plants  to
run factories.  The company is currently building a cogeneration plant that
will provide electricity and thermal energy for  Dow Chemical
Co. (DOW) ’s largest factory in Brazil, and may sign another 10
contracts in the next five years for clients from petrochemical
makers to food and beverage producers, said Camila Ramos,
marketing director for Sao Paulo-based ERB.  High natural gas prices and extensive forest resources in
Brazil are driving interest from manufacturers in developing in-
house cogeneration plants, fueled by trees harvested from
dedicated sources.  “It’s not relevant for all industries, but for large-scale
operations that require a lot of heat and vapor it makes
sense,” Ramos said by phone.  Some Brazilian factories already run on power generated by
wood scraps left over from forestry operations, though outside
the steel and paper industries, few companies grow their own
trees exclusively for fuel, she said.  “ Brazil  has the climate, the availability of land, the
suitability of land for forests,” she said. “It’s the perfect
place for a sustainable biomass industry.”  ERB has identified 7.5 gigawatts of natural gas and diesel
oil-fired thermoelectric capacity installed at industrial sites
that may be retrofitted to run on wood, she said.  Energy Forests  The company is seeking contracts from factory clients that
will purchase electricity and thermal energy from plants that
ERB will build and operate. It will also plant and maintain
nearby “energy forests” to provide a source of fuel.  That’s the model ERB is already using at Dow’s Aratu
Complex, in Bahia state. The energy company has planted 1,200
hectares of trees since May out of a planned 8,000 hectares to
provide fuel, and Ramos said the plant will go into operation by
the end of 2012. The factory will be the first petrochemical
facility powered by wood in Brazil, she said.  The 300 million-real project will generate 13 megawatts of
electricity and another 100 megawatts of thermal energy that
will generate steam to produce chlor-alkali and chlorohydrin,
Dow  said.  Switching to biomass energy will let the chemical
company save 200,000 cubic meters of natural gas a day. The
factory makes materials for automotive, building and industrial
applications.  “Traditional alternative energy sources, such as wind and
solar, would not provide the necessary heat and steam needed,”
Dow spokeswoman Amy Ahlich said today by e-mail. “Wood biomass
is an ideal renewable solution for Dow at its Aratu site.”  Expensive Gas  Natural gas is expensive in Brazil.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PBR) ,
the country’s state-owned oil company, was selling natural gas
in March to distributors in the northeast for $11.10 per million
British thermal units, almost three times the $3.97 it was going
for in some parts of the U.S., according to a Ministry of Mines
and Energy report published in April.  ERB is planting mainly eucalyptus trees in its energy
forests. “Eucalyptus yields in Brazil are much higher than
basically anywhere else,” Ramos said, and when grown for energy
purposes “can save companies up to 30 percent on their energy
bills.”  ERB plans to develop its energy forests on degraded
pastures. Brazil has about 180 million hectares (445 million
acres) of such land, about the size of  Libya , Ramos said.  “Energy forests may make sense for cogeneration
projects,” Jorge Trinkenreich, director of PSR Consultoria. The
Rio de Janeiro-based consulting firm studied the viability of
wood-fueled energy projects for MPX Energia SA, a Brazilian
operator of coal-fired thermoelectric plants.  “Producing just electricity from forests didn’t make
financial sense, but if you’re making use of the vapor that’s
produced at the same time it very well might,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  