-- 
Merkel’s Atomic Overhaul Faces State Struggle on Renewables

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-06-30T11:27:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/merkel-s-atomic-overhaul-faces-state-struggle-over-renewables.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  may
have to amend her plans to transform the energy mix in  Europe ’s
largest economy because of opposition in the upper house of
parliament as the July 8 deadline to pass the laws approaches.  While Merkel won broad backing for her decision to close
Germany’s 17 nuclear reactors by 2022, the country’s states are
resisting allied plans to load subsidies in favor of offshore
wind parks and to let the federal government push through an
expansion of the  power grid .  The government’s lower-house majority ensured the eight
bills underpinning the energy overhaul passed in a vote in
Berlin today. Merkel faces a tougher ride in the upper house,
the Bundesrat, where the state-led opposition holds sway. The
states are demanding about 150 changes to the draft legislation,
eight days before their summer recess starts.  “The energy transformation, and especially plans for grid
expansion, can’t be pushed through over the head of the
Bundesrat,” Ulrich Kelber, a deputy floor leader for the main
opposition  Social Democratic Party , said in an interview. “The
government will have to make more concessions.”  Lawmakers in the lower house, or Bundestag backed the
package of eight bills regulating the nuclear exit, renewable
energy subsidies, power grid expansion and  energy efficiency .  Power Prices  The benchmark next-year contract for German power fell for
a second day during the debate, sliding 0.5 percent to 56.35
euros a megawatt hour, according to broker prices on Bloomberg.  Merkel’s nuclear exit is matched by plans to speed the
transition to renewable sources of energy such as wind, hydro,
solar and biomass. Germany, one of the world’s biggest renewable
energy markets, met 16.8 percent of its electricity needs from
renewable sources last year. The government aims to boost this
figure to at least 35 percent in 2020 and 80 percent in 2050.  “This is a big and important change, and the government is
taking it very seriously,” Claudia Kemfert, an energy expert
with the Berlin-based DIW economic institute, said in an
interview. “Whether it’s enough to reach Germany’s renewable
energy and climate targets has to be seen.”  Wind and solar shares have underperformed Germany’s
benchmark  DAX index (DAX) , which has risen 4.5 percent since the
accident at an atomic plant in  Japan . The Bloomberg Global
Leaders Solar Index fell about 7.1, and the Bloomberg Wind
Energy Index declined 0.8 percent over the period.  Renewables Target  A majority of Germany’s 16 states, eager to speed up the
transition to renewables, have called for changes to the bills
before they go the upper house. The Social Democrat and Green
Party coalition in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany’s most
populous state, wants the federal government to boost its
renewable energy target to 40 percent and “markedly” increase
funding to make buildings more energy efficient from the current
1.5 billion euros ($2.2 billion) per year.  “The bills complementing the nuclear exit have been
unnecessarily rushed into existence,” the state’s economy
minister, Harry Voigtsberger, said in a statement yesterday.  The opposition is concerned that a boost in subsidies for
offshore wind farms will cement market domination by the
country’s four main utilities -- EON AG,  RWE AG (RWE) ,  EnBW Energie
Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK)  and Vattenfall AB -- because they have
less trouble securing financing for the farms that can require
investments upward of 1 billion euros.  EON, RWE  EON and RWE, Germany’s two biggest utilities, are among the
worst performers this year on the 30-member DAX index, declining
16 percent and 24.6 percent respectively.  The government should increase support for wind power on
land, according to Baerbel Hoehn, a deputy floor leader of the
Greens in the federal parliament.  “We have to be very careful that the renewable energy law
isn’t changed to make up for the utilities’ loss of nuclear
reactor running times,” she said in an interview.  The government rejects the charge. Plans to unlock 5
billion euros in loans to help finance the first 10 offshore
wind farms enables mid-sized companies to invest in parks at
sea, Economy Minister Philipp Roesler said yesterday.  ‘Petty-Minded’  “We have discussed for months, over cents and half-
percentage points,” Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen said
in parliament today, as he was heckled by opposition lawmakers.
“This is not just about petty-minded bossiness. This is about a
national project. You should finally swallow your pride.”  State officials are also unhappy with a bill that would
shift responsibility for the construction of new  power lines 
from the states to the Bundesnetzagentur, a federal regulator, a
step aimed at speeding up the planning and approval process.  Germany  needs to invest 9.7 billion euros to build as many
as 2,235 miles of cables by 2020 to link renewable energy
projects with consumers, the Dena energy agency said on June 1.  Merkel’s government has shown a willingness to compromise
as it seeks to meet its self-imposed deadline to pass the
legislation on July 8, agreeing to leave a part of the grid
planning approval process in state hands, according to Hoehn. It
also decided to soften planned subsidy cuts targeting land-based
wind farms.  That’s still not good enough for the Bundesrat and the
Greens, Hoehn said.  “The renewable energy law will be negotiated right up
until the very end,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  