-- 
Errors Occur in 12% of Electronic Drug Prescriptions Matching Handwritten

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-06-29T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/errors-occur-in-12-of-electronic-drug-prescriptions-matching-handwritten.html
As many as 12 percent of the drug
prescriptions sent electronically to pharmacies contain errors,
a rate that matches handwritten orders for medicine from
physicians, researchers said.  An analysis of 3,850 computer-generated prescriptions
written over a four-week period found 452 contained errors,
including 163 that could harm the patient, according to a report
published today in the  Journal of the American Medical
Informatics Association . The rate was consistent with past
studies reviewing the risk of errors when a doctor writes a
prescription and hands it to the patient, the researchers said.  The results undermine the expected safety benefits from
computer-generated prescriptions, said the study authors led by
Karen Nanji of  Massachusetts General Hospital ’s anesthesia,
critical care and pain department. The U.S. paid more than
$158.3 million to doctors and hospitals in the first half of
2011 to encourage adoption of electronic health records, which
President  Barack Obama  has advocated as a way to lower health-
care costs and reduce medical errors.  “Providers appear to be rapidly adopting electronic health
records and computerized prescribing, and one of the major
anticipated benefits is expected to be through medication-error
reduction,” the researchers wrote. “Many of these benefits
will not be realized if the electronic prescribing applications
are not mature and either do not catch or even cause new
medication errors.”  Wrong Dose  The most common error was the omission of key information,
such as the dose of medicine and how long or how many times a
day it should be taken, the researchers said. Other issues
included improper abbreviations, conflicting information about
how or when to take the drug and clinical errors in the choice
or use of the treatment, the researchers said.  “With more than 3 billon prescriptions written annually in
the U.S. alone, this could amount to 385 million errors each
year, with 128 million of them having the potential to cause
patient harm, said researcher Jeffrey Rothschild, from the
center for patient safety research and practice at Brigham and
Women’s Hospital in  Boston .  Among the providers of electronic health records are
 General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Siemens AG (SI) ,  Cerner Corp. (CERN) ,  Allscripts
Healthcare Solutions Inc. (MDRX)  and closely held Epic Systems Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  