-- 
EU Hits China With Tariffs on Steel Pipes to Aid Salzgitter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-06-29T07:58:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/eu-hits-china-with-tariffs-on-steel-pipes-to-aid-salzgitter.html
The European Union imposed tariffs
as high as 71.5 percent on steel pipes from China to help EU
producers including  Salzgitter AG (SZG)  compete with cheaper imports.  The duties punish Chinese exporters such as Changshu Walsin
Specialty Steel Co. for selling stainless steel seamless pipes
and tubes in the EU below cost, a practice known as dumping. The
oil, natural-gas, electricity, chemical, construction and waste-
incineration industries use the pipes and tubes.  European manufacturers including  Germany ’s  Salzgitter
Mannesmann Stainless Tubes  have suffered “material injury” as
a result of dumped imports from China, the European Commission,
the 27-nation EU’s trade authority in Brussels, said today in
the  Official Journal . The levies, due to take effect tomorrow,
are for six months and may be prolonged for five years.  Chinese exporters expanded their combined share of the EU
market for stainless-steel seamless pipes and tubes to 18.4
percent in the 12 months through June 2010 from 10.5 percent in
2006, according to the commission.  The duties are the preliminary outcome of an inquiry that
the commission opened last September after a dumping complaint
against  China  by an industry group on behalf of producers that
account for more than 50 percent of the EU’s output of the pipes
and tubes. The levies range from 48 percent to 71.5 percent,
depending on the Chinese manufacturer.  EU governments, acting on a proposal from the commission,
must decide within six months whether to turn the provisional
anti-dumping duties into “definitive” levies lasting for five
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  