-- 
Euro Weakens Against Most-Traded Peers as Greece Passes an Austerity Plan

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-06-29T15:14:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/euro-swings-between-gains-losses-before-greece-vote-dollar-depreciates.html
The euro fell against the majority of
its most-traded counterparts as the passage of austerity
measures by Greek lawmakers failed to fully quell concern the
nation’s debt crisis will worsen.  The 17-nation currency gained earlier against the dollar
after Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  garnered enough
votes for his 78 billion euro ($112 billion) package of budget
cuts and state asset sales needed to tap a fifth portion of last
year’s rescue.  Canada ’s dollar rallied as consumer prices
increased more than forecast and  Switzerland ’s franc sank as
stocks and commodities rose.  “It doesn’t change the view that  Greece  faces an
unsustainable debt problem and the measures put in place are
insufficient in correcting that issue,” said  Aroop Chatterjee ,
a currency strategist at Barclays Plc in New York. “Investors
who are looking at medium-term implications would not be
compelled to buy the euro at these levels. Shorter term
investors who are looking at momentum strategies may find it
attractive to buy the euro heading in to an event such as
this.”  The euro rose 0.3 percent to $1.4418 as of 11:09 a.m. in
 New York , after gaining as much as 0.5 percent to the strongest
since June 15. The shared currency was little changed at 116.61
yen. The dollar fell 0.4 percent to 80.83 yen.  Commodity Trend  Currencies of commodity-exporting countries rose the most
against the dollar among the major currencies as raw materials
prices advanced. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of
commodities added 1 percent.  “There’s definitely a strong focus on commodity prices
today, which is helping the Aussie, kiwi and Canada outperform,”
said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in New York. “Risk appetite has stabilized
and commodities are firmer.”  Canada’s dollar rose 1.2 percent to 96.94 cents per  U.S.
dollar .  New Zealand ’s currency appreciated 1.1 percent to 82.10
cents and the Aussie added 1.1 percent to $1.0659.  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is also known for the
image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, also rose as consumer
prices in Canada advanced 0.7 percent in May after a 0.3 percent
gain in the previous month,  Statistics Canada  said today in
Ottawa, making it more likely that the central bank will resume
boosting borrowing costs.  Bank of Canada   The Bank of Canada kept its benchmark overnight lending
rate at 1 percent on May 31, where it has been since September.
Investors expect the central bank to increase  interest rates  by
47 basis points in the next 12 months, from 35 basis points
yesterday, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on
swaps.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, dropped 0.4 percent to 74.735 as the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index advanced 0.8 percent. The S&P’s GSCI index of raw
materials climbed 2.2 percent.  Papandreou won approval of his package of budget cuts and
asset sales, which is crucial to receiving further international
financial aid.  A total of 155 lawmakers in the 300-strong chamber
supported the law and 138 voted against, Parliament Speaker
Filippos Petsalnikos said in remarks carried live on state-run
Vouli TV today.  Parliament will tomorrow hold a vote on
implementing the austerity plan.  The vote came amid a 48-hour strike and scuffles outside
parliament that saw police fire tear gas at demonstrators
protesting budget cuts and asset sales.  More Votes  “We do have another vote tomorrow and the continued
rioting on the streets, which is unlikely to subside ahead of
this next vote,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency
strategist in New York at Bank of New York Mellon Corp. “The
market is taking profit after bidding up the euro, so we should
see the euro grind lower against the dollar.”  The euro has gained 2.6 percent this year against a basket
of nine developed-market peers, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen has weakened 4.8
percent, while the dollar is down 5.4 percent.  The franc slipped versus all of its major peers after the
nation’s economic barometer fell in June, adding to signs the
franc’s ascent and a faltering euro-region economy may hurt
economic growth.  The monthly gauge that aims to predict the economy’s
direction about six months ahead dropped to 2.23 from 2.30 in
May, the KOF Swiss Economic Institute in Zurich said today.  The Swiss currency slid 0.7 percent to 1.2038 per euro. The
franc fell 0.4 percent to 83.55 centimes per dollar. It reached
82.76 centimes per dollar yesterday, a record high.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  