-- 
Euro Falls, Snapping Two-Day Gain, Amid Greek Protests Before Budget Vote

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-06-29T03:26:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/euro-falls-snaps-2-day-gain-as-riots-escalate.html
The euro fell, snapping a two-day
gain against the dollar, amid protests in the streets of  Athens 
before Greece’s parliament votes on an austerity package needed
to secure more financial aid.  The 17-nation currency was still headed for a second
quarterly gain on speculation Greece’s debt crisis won’t prevent
the  European Central Bank  from raising  interest rates  next week
to cool inflation. The dollar traded near the strongest in three
weeks versus the yen after Treasury yields jumped yesterday,
enhancing the allure of U.S. assets.  South Korea ’s won rose for
a second day on speculation the central bank will boost interest
rates after the government raised its inflation forecast.  “I’m kind of cautious how much further upside the euro
does have,” said Mike Burrowes, currency strategist at Bank of
New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “I suspect some of the drive
higher in the euro has been driven by squaring off short
positions rather than reflecting a passing of the vote will
actually solve the situation in  Greece .”  The euro fell to $1.4352 at 12:25 p.m. in Tokyo from
$1.4371 in  New York  yesterday, when it reached $1.4397, the
highest since June 22. It’s down 0.3 percent against the
greenback this month and up 1.3 percent this quarter. A short
position is a bet an asset’s value will decline.  The shared currency declined to 116.25 yen from 116.58,
after reaching 116.67 yesterday, the highest level since June 14.
The dollar fetched 81.02 yen from 81.12. It touched 81.27 yen
yesterday, the strongest since June 2.  Tear Gas  Police fired tear gas to disperse protesters in Athens as
labor unions shut down government services before today’s vote.
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  has called on lawmakers to “do
their patriotic duty” and pass the 78 billion-euro ($112
billion) austerity package that will determine if his indebted
nation can receive further rescue funds.  That, and a successful vote tomorrow to authorize
implementation of the plan, would enable Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos to appear at a meeting of finance ministers
this weekend in Brussels.  Losses in the euro were limited after ECB President Jean- Claude Trichet said yesterday that policy makers are in “strong
vigilance mode,” supporting expectations for an interest-rate
increase at the central bank’s meeting on July 7. The ECB raised
its benchmark rate in April for the first time in almost three
years, lifting it by a quarter point to 1.25 percent.  ‘Strong Enough’  “The euro’s got a bit more upside from here,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist in Sydney at Commonwealth Bank of
 Australia , the nation’s biggest lender. “While we hear a lot
about Greece, it’s really a lot of noise because the bottom line
is that the European economy is strong enough to get the ECB
raising rates.”  The dollar strengthened against most of its 16 major
counterparts on prospects rising returns on U.S. assets will
attract global investors. Treasury 10-year yields touched 3.05
percent yesterday, the highest since June 15, and were at 3.02
percent today.  “The back-up in yields that we did see yesterday in the
U.S. should provide some support, particularly against cross
currencies like the Japanese yen,” said John Horner, a currency
strategist in Sydney at Deutsche Bank AG.  Dollar, Yen  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, advanced 0.1 percent to 75.093, halting a two-day loss.  The dollar has fallen 4.9 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen is down
4.7 percent, while the euro is up 2.8 percent.  The yen gained against the euro for the first time in three
days on speculation Japanese companies bought the currency after
yesterday’s declines.  “There will likely be quarter-end buying of the yen by
exporters,” said  Yuji Saito , director of the foreign-exchange
department at Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank in
 Tokyo .  The won rose the most of all the 16 major currencies
against the dollar after the presidential office said yesterday
that consumer-price inflation will be around 4 percent this year,
compared with the government’s target of 3 percent.  “Comments on inflation are adding to speculation that the
central bank may need to raise interest rates in the second
half,” said Kong Dong Rak, fixed-income analyst at Taurus
Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul .  The won traded at 1,079.45 per dollar from 1,083.55
yesterday. South Korea’s currency gained 1.6 percent versus the
greenback this quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 