-- 
Euro Advances Versus Dollar as Greece Passes Austerity, ECB Meeting Nears

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-06-29T21:10:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/euro-advances-versus-dollar-as-greece-passes-austerity-ecb-meeting-nears.html
The euro reached two-week high
against the dollar as investors raised bets the  European Central
Bank  will increase interest rates next week after the passage of
austerity measures by Greek lawmakers.  The 17-nation currency also gained against the Swiss franc
and  Taiwan ’s dollar after Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
garnered enough votes for his 78 billion euro ($112 billion)
package of budget cuts and state asset sales needed to tap a
fifth portion of last year’s rescue. The dollar sank as stocks
and commodities rose amid reduced concern about the European
debt crisis, buoying risk demand. Canada’s dollar rallied as
consumer prices increased more than forecast.  “With the vote out of the way for the time being, we
should see a renewed focus on ECB hawkishness,” said Ray Attrill, a New York-based currency strategist for BNP Paribas
SA. “Institutional investors have been very sidelined in the
last few weeks because of the uncertainty leading up to the
vote. If the air was cleared for the time being on  Greece , that
paves the way for a resumption of delayed euro-dollar buying.”  The shared currency rose 0.5 percent to $1.4435 at 5:02
p.m. in New York, from 1.4371 yesterday. It gained to $1.4448,
the strongest since June 15. The euro was little changed against
the yen at 116.61. The dollar fell 0.4 percent to 80.78 yen.  The euro has risen 0.3 percent against the dollar this
month, bringing its gain this quarter to 2 percent. The yen has
gained 1 percent so far in June and has increased 2.9 percent in
the last three months.  European Rates  The implied yield on three-month Euribor futures rose with
the June 2012 contract gaining nine basis points to 2 percent as
traders added to bets policy makers will boost rates during the
next year. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday
policy makers are in “strong vigilance mode,” signaling they
intend to raise interest rates next week even as Greece
struggles to avert a default.  “We’re taking the decision progressively to anchor
inflation expectations,” Trichet said at a press conference in
Amsterdam following a seminar with central bankers from the
Asia-Pacific region.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, dropped 0.6 percent to 74.623 as the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index advanced 0.8 percent. The S&P’s GSCI index of raw
materials climbed 2.1 percent.  Commodities Trend  Currencies of commodity-exporting countries rose the most
against the dollar among the major currencies as raw materials
prices advanced. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of
commodities added 1 percent.  “There’s definitely a strong focus on commodity prices
today, which is helping the Aussie, kiwi and  Canada 
outperform,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New York. “Risk appetite
has stabilized and commodities are firmer.”  Canada’s dollar rose 1.2 percent to 96.95 cents per  U.S.
dollar .  New Zealand ’s currency appreciated 1.6 percent to 82.53
cents and the Aussie added 1.4 percent to $1.0683.  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is also known for the
image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, also rose as consumer
prices in Canada advanced 0.7 percent in May after a 0.3 percent
gain in the previous month,  Statistics Canada  said today in
Ottawa, making it more likely that the central bank will resume
boosting borrowing costs.  Bank of Canada   The Bank of Canada kept its benchmark overnight lending
rate at 1 percent on May 31, where it has been since September.
Investors expect the central bank to increase  interest rates  by
47 basis points in the next 12 months, from 35 basis points
yesterday, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on
swaps.  The franc slipped versus all of its major peers after the
nation’s economic barometer fell in June, adding to signs the
franc’s ascent and a faltering euro-region economy may hurt
economic growth.  The monthly gauge that aims to predict the economy’s
direction about six months ahead dropped to 2.23 from 2.30 in
May, the KOF Swiss Economic Institute in Zurich said today.  The Swiss currency slid 0.7 percent to 1.2042 per euro. The
franc fell 0.3 percent to 83.42 centimes per dollar. It reached
82.76 centimes per dollar yesterday, a record high.  The franc is the biggest gainer among the major currencies
this quarter, rising 10 percent against the dollar.  Papandreou won approval of his package of budget cuts and
asset sales, which is crucial to receiving further international
financial aid.  A total of 155 lawmakers in the 300-strong chamber
supported the law and 138 voted against, Parliament Speaker
Filippos Petsalnikos said in remarks carried live on state-run
Vouli TV today.  Parliament will tomorrow hold a vote on
implementing the austerity plan.  The vote came amid a 48-hour strike and scuffles outside
parliament that saw police fire tear gas at demonstrators
protesting budget cuts and asset sales.  The euro has gained 2.6 percent this year against a basket
of nine developed-market peers, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen has weakened 5.2
percent, while the dollar is down 5.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  