-- 
European June Economic Confidence Declines to Its Lowest in Eight Months

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-06-29T09:35:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/european-june-economic-confidence-declines-to-lowest-level-in-eight-months.html
European confidence in the economic
outlook dropped to the lowest in eight months in June as policy
makers struggled to craft a second bailout package for  Greece .  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro region fell to 105.1 from 105.5 in May, the European
Commission in Brussels said today. That’s the lowest since
October. Economists had forecast a decline to 105, the median of
27 estimates in a Bloomberg survey showed.  The euro-area recovery may falter after expanding at the
fastest pace in almost a year in the first quarter as
governments toughen budget cuts to keep Greece’s fiscal crisis
from spreading. European leaders are trying to agree on a deal
to prevent a Greek debt restructuring. In  Germany , Europe’s
largest economy, investor confidence dropped this month and
European services and manufacturing growth weakened.  “The recent economic headwinds and the escalation of the
Greek crisis are clearly weighing on the mood of businesses and
consumers,” Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam, wrote in an e-mailed note. The euro-region recovery
“is slowly but surely losing steam.”  The euro was little changed against the dollar after the
data, trading at $1.4391 at 11:18 a.m. in  Frankfurt , up 0.1
percent on the day.  A gauge of sentiment among European manufacturers dropped
to 3.2 from 3.8 in the previous month, today’s report showed. An
indicator of services confidence rose to 9.9 from 9.3, while a
measure of  consumer confidence  increased to minus 9.8 from minus
9.9. Sentiment among builders also improved in June.  ‘Spillover Effects’  European governments are seeking ways to contain the
region’s debt crisis as investors grow increasingly concerned
that Greece won’t be able to repay its debt after last year’s
110 billion-euro ($157 billion) bailout. Greek lawmakers cast
ballots today and tomorrow on the austerity measures, a
condition for more foreign aid needed to prevent a default.  “There’s a huge amount of effort going on in  Europe  to
prevent the worst possible case coming out of Greece,” Russel Jones, global head of fixed-income strategy at Westpac Banking
Corp., told Linzie Janis on Bloomberg Television’s “First
Look” from Sydney today. “Policy makers are very worried about
spillover effects. We’re not out of this mess yet.”  Budget Gaps  With governments cutting spending and raising taxes to plug
their budget gaps, companies have relied on faster-growing
economies to boost sales. Prada SpA, the Milan-based maker of
Miu Miu bags, on June 3 forecast growth of at least 46 percent
in first-half profit, helped by an Asian expansion.  The German economy has helped power the region’s expansion
as companies boost output and spending to meet export demand.
Business confidence in Germany unexpectedly improved in June and
services growth accelerated, recent data showed. Unemployment
probably fell last month, according to a Bloomberg survey. The
Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency will release the report
tomorrow.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s largest maker of heavy-duty
vehicles, said on June 21 it plans to sell 20 percent more
Mercedes-Benz trucks this year.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest
carmaker, is on track for “distinct growth” and a “very
successful” business year in 2011, Chief Executive Officer
 Martin Winterkorn  said earlier this month.  Debt Crisis  An indicator of German manufacturing confidence slipped to
11.8 in June from 13.3 in the previous month, today’s report
showed. A gauge of euro-area manufacturers’ order books rose to
minus 1.6 from minus 2.7 and an indicator of production
expectations slipped to 11.6 from 12.9. A gauge of employment
expectations declined from May and companies were also more
pessimistic about their export order books.  While the  European Central Bank  on June 9 lowered its euro-
region growth forecast for next year to 1.7 percent from 1.8
percent, President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled concern about
oil-driven price pressures feeding into wage demands.  Euro-area inflation slowed to 2.7 percent in May from 2.8
percent in the previous month, staying above the central bank’s
2 percent limit. ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark said
on June 27 that the central bank is “very vigilant” and ready
to raise the benchmark interest rate further from 1.25 percent.  A gauge of service companies’ selling-price expectations
slipped to 7.5 from 9.6 in May. Households indicated they were
more optimistic about their financial situation over the coming
12 months, while a gauge measuring consumers’ willingness to
make major purchases over that period rose to minus 24.1 from
minus 27. An indicator of consumers’ assessment in price
developments over the coming year slipped to 24.7 from 27.4.  The ECB will hold its next rate meeting on July 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  