-- 
HP in Discussions to License WebOS Software, CEO Apotheker Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-29T23:45:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/hewlett-packard-is-in-talks-to-license-webos-software-ceo-apotheker-says.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the world’s
largest maker of personal computers, is in discussions to
license its WebOS mobile software, Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker  said.  “We are talking to a number of companies,” Apotheker said
in an interview in Beijing yesterday, declining to elaborate on
details. “I can share with you that a number of companies have
expressed interest. We are continuing our conversations.”  WebOS would give hardware makers a choice beyond  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system and Microsoft Corp.’s Windows
software as they seek to challenge  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s grip on the
smartphone and tablet-computer markets. For Hewlett-Packard,
which cut its sales forecast by $1 billion last month, licensing
the operating system would help strengthen software operations
as PC sales slump.  “The reality is that Google and Apple are in the driving
seat here and consumers are voting with their dollars,” said
Shaw Wu, a San Francisco-based analyst for Sterne Agee & Leach
Inc. He recommends buying HP shares and doesn’t own the stock.
“The problem for HP here is how do they license it without
competing with their own products?”  Hewlett-Packard, which makes and sells its own phones and
tablets that run the WebOS operating system, rose 1.3 percent to
a three-week high of $35.55 in New York trading yesterday.  Apotheker declined to give a timeframe for deciding on
webOS partners, saying “there is no time pressure to do this.”  Samsung Electronics Co. held talks to use WebOS in its
smartphones, according to three people with knowledge of the
discussions. Apotheker declined to say whether Hewlett-Packard
and Samsung are having discussions, as did Jason Kim, a Samsung
spokesman.  A partnership with Hewlett-Packard would allow Samsung,
which uses Android for its Galaxy Tab tablet computers, to
customize devices amid speculation that Google may restrict
modifications for phones that use Android, said one of the
people, who declined to be named because the talks are private.  Google, Samsung  Randall Sarafa, a spokesman for Google, referred to an
April  post  on the company’s blog denying Android design
restrictions, and declined to comment further.  “Samsung will continue to strengthen its relationship with
Google to provide ultimate values to customers,” said Samsung’s
Kim.  Hewlett-Packard is open to licensing its operating system
if third-parties offer design and development improvements, said
Jon Rubinstein, the executive in charge of developing WebOS, in
an interview this month.  Apotheker, who told employees last month to brace for
“another tough quarter” in the July period, said in March that
HP plans to put WebOS into a broader range of products and ramp
up output to more than 100 million devices a year.  Android may have recently experienced some defections among
developers and consumers. In a June 20 report, Needham & Co.
analyst  Charlie Wolf  said Android’s U.S. market share declined
sequentially in the March quarter to 49.5 percent, from 52.4
percent. He predicted it will continue to decline, as more
consumers opt for the Apple’s iPhone. Android’s global market
share in the quarter increased.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  