-- 
HP Turning to Chinese to Develop Products for Emerging Markets

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-29T08:35:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/hewlett-packard-turning-to-china-to-develop-products-for-emerging-markets.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  is turning to
 China  for engineers to develop global storage and networking
products, opening a new research center in Beijing this year as
it seeks to boost sales in emerging markets.  “It is in China, for China, but also for the world because
the R&D capabilities here in China, we want to leverage for
other markets as well,” Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker 
said today in Beijing. He declined to say how many employees
would be hired or how much the center would cost.  The world’s biggest computer maker also said it is
accelerating its investments in cloud computing and social media
in China, betting the country’s five-year plan will lead to more
investment in servers and networking gear. Apotheker, 57, took
leadership of  Palo Alto , California-based HP on Nov. 1 and has
said he plans to expand internationally, boost software revenue
and speed product development to counter slowing sales growth.  “In China, you can develop a certain number of
technologies that are particularly well suited for other fast-
developing markets that have similar characteristics,”
Apotheker said in an interview after a press briefing in the
nation’s capital. “We already do some research in China, and we
want to expand this right here in Beijing so that we can
actually have even more leading-edge technology that we can
drive out of China.”  Shanghai Factories  Apotheker spoke at the end of a four-city trip to China
that also included the announcement of a new cloud computing
center in Tianjin and an expansion of manufacturing in  Shanghai .  Sales in the so-called BRIC countries rose 19 percent in
the fiscal second quarter, and  Brazil , Russia,  India , and China
accounted for 12 percent of  revenue , or $3.76 billion. Total
revenue this fiscal year is expected to increase 2.5 percent to
$129.2 billion after rising 10 percent in the 12 months ended in
October, according to the average estimate of 33 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Apotheker has also shuffled executives to push for more
growth in China.  Todd Bradley , head of the company’s personal
computer group, took on additional responsibilities on June 14
to extend the company’s market share in the world’s fastest-
growing major economy. On June 20, HP named Steve Gill, who has
been with the company for more than a decade and has managed
operations in Korea, the U.K. and Ireland, as its new managing
director for China.  HP entered China in 1985 and now has about 20,000 workers
there, Apotheker said. The new initiatives will increase the
number of employees in the nation, he said, declining to provide
an estimate for how many will be added.  Before arriving at Hewlett-Packard, Apotheker resigned as
CEO of German software maker SAP AG amid falling sales, clashes
with unions over job cuts and a price increase that vexed
customers.  --Edmond Lococo, Aaron Ricadela. Editors: Dave McCombs,  Terje Langeland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  