-- 
Ex-Credit Suisse Broker Butler in Plea Talks, U.S. Prosecutor Tells Court

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-29T21:20:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/ex-credit-suisse-broker-butler-in-plea-talks-u-s-prosecutor-tells-court.html
Former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  broker
 Eric Butler , convicted in 2009 of fraudulently selling subprime
securities to corporate clients that cost investors more than
$1.1 billion in losses, is in plea talks to resolve pending
charges, a prosecutor said.  “We’re in discussion, plea negotiations, to resolve these
matters,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel Spector told U.S.
District Judge Paul G. Gardephe today in  Manhattan .  A federal appeals court this month threw out Butler’s
 securities-fraud  conviction at a federal trial in Brooklyn,
saying the court was the wrong venue for the charge. At the same
time, the appeals court upheld convictions for conspiracy to
commit  wire fraud  and conspiracy to commit securities fraud.  Butler still faces wire-fraud counts in federal court in
 New York . Spector said today the charges were refiled in
Manhattan, in the Southern District of New York, after Butler’s
lawyers challenged the charges on grounds of venue.  Brooklyn is in the Eastern District of New York. Butler
worked in the Zurich-based Credit Suisse’s office in Manhattan.  “We gave the defendant an opportunity to resolve all of
these charges in one forum in the Eastern District,” Spector
said. “They chose to force the case to be brought here. They
made that choice, and it should be resolved here.”  Defense Lawyer  Butler’s lawyer, Steven F. Molo, argued that the wire-fraud
charges stemmed from the same conduct for which Butler had been
convicted in  Brooklyn  and shouldn’t have to face retrial in
Manhattan.  “Not only are the government sore losers, they’re sore
winners,” Molo said. “They brought these counts in the Eastern
District for the same scheme. I find this to be frankly an
extraordinary waste of the Department of Justice’s time and
money.”  Gardephe agreed to adjourn the case until July 25 to allow
both sides could file papers to support their position.  Molo and Spector declined to comment on the plea
negotiations after the conference.  Butler and his co-defendant  Julian Tzolov  were charged with
conducting what prosecutors said was an illegal scheme in which
they falsely told clients their products were backed by
federally guaranteed student loans and were a safe alternative
to  bank deposits  or money-market funds.  Auction-Rate Securities  The products were actually linked to auction-rate
securities and generated high commissions for the two, witnesses
testified during Butler’s trial.  Tzolov, who was returned to New York from  Spain  in July
2009 after fleeing prosecution, pleaded guilty to conspiracy,
wire fraud and securities fraud. He testified as a prosecution
witness against Butler, his former partner.  Butler was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Jack B. Weinstein in Brooklyn to five years in prison and fined
$5 million. Weinstein yesterday postponed Butler’s resentencing
without giving a new date.  The case is U.S. v. Butler, 1:09-cr-00685, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 