-- 
Lehman Ex-Managing Director Bradley Jack Arrested on Drug Forgery Charge

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   J o h n   D i l l o n
-- 
2011-06-29T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/ex-lehman-managing-director-bradley-jack-arrested-on-drug-forgery-charge.html
Bradley H. Jack, a former  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  managing director, was arrested in
Connecticut by police who charged him with attempting to pass a
fake prescription for Oxycontin and Ritalin.  Jack, 52, is accused of using a forged prescription at a
Fairfield CVS pharmacy June 24 for 12 pills of the painkiller
Oxycontin and nine pills of Ritalin, a drug used to treat
attention deficit disorder, said Lt. James Perez of the
 Fairfield Police Department .  A store employee followed the suspect outside the pharmacy,
watched him get into a black Range Rover and drive away, Perez
said yesterday in a telephone interview. The employee reported
the license plate number of the vehicle to police, who traced it
to two residences -- one on Sasco Hill Road in Fairfield and the
other on North Avenue in Westport, according to Perez.  Jack joined New York-based Lehman in 1984 and ran
 investment banking  from 1996 to 2002, when he became co-chief
operating officer with Joseph Gregory. In 2004, he was named to
the office of the chairman with the responsibility of overseeing
all of the firm’s investment banking relationships.  He decided to retire from New York-based Lehman to pursue
work in the nonprofit sector and spend time with his family,
said Richard Fuld, Lehman’s former chief executive officer, in
June 2005.  Sasco Hill Road is the same street listed for Jack in a
June 2007 lawsuit filed against former officers of the bankrupt
securities firm by two chapters of the International Union of
Operating Engineers-Employers Construction Industry Retirement
Trust. Jack declined to be interviewed yesterday at his home.  ‘Some Misunderstanding’  Connecticut  state court records show that a Karin Jack, who
had an address on Sasco Hill Road, divorced Bradley H. Jack, who
had a different street address listed in the court papers. A
Vanity Fair article published in March 2010 identified Karin
Jack as the ex-wife of the former Lehman executive.  Bradley Jack, when approached at his Westport property,
said he hasn’t “been in business in five years” and that
stories about his arrest have “some misunderstanding.”  “I can’t comment on anything about that,” Jack said when
asked about the arrest. “It’s my personal life.”  Jack referred questions to a Norwalk, Connecticut attorney,
William A. Pelletreau, who didn’t return messages left at his
office after business hours. Robert Satti, a state’s attorney in
Bridgeport, declined to comment on the case.  Forgery Charge  Jack was charged with second-degree forgery, a felony count
that carries a sentence of at least one year in prison, and
forgery of a prescription ledger, Perez said. He was released on
a promise to appear in state court in Bridgeport on July 11.  Perez said he couldn’t confirm that Jack used to work at
Lehman, which in 2008 filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S.
history.  Police said that at the CVS drugstore, the pharmacist
“immediately became suspicious” of the customer, told the man
to come back, and called the doctor’s office in  Westport  that
was listed on the prescription, Perez said. The physician’s
office confirmed the prescription wasn’t valid, and the
pharmacist notified police, according to Perez.  Police contacted the suspect, who voluntarily came to
police headquarters for questioning, Perez said. He matched the
description given to police -- a 6-foot-tall white man in his
50s with salt-and-pepper hair, wearing a striped shirt and tan
pants.  “He readily confessed and said that he was sorry and that
he shouldn’t have done it,” Perez said. “I don’t know if it
was for him or someone else,” he said of the drugs.  The Jacks’ home on 20 acres off Sasco Hill Road is the most
expensive residential property in Fairfield, according to a
report in the Connecticut Post. The waterfront property has been
appraised at $34.6 million, the newspaper said.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, didn’t return
telephone and e-mail messages seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
 John Dillon  in Westport, Connecticut, at  jdillon@snet.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  