-- 
Texas ‘Bird-Hunting Rule’ May Help Perry Launch Bid

-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-29T16:38:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/texas-bird-hunting-rule-may-help-perry-launch-white-house-bid.html
Rick Perry  built his career as the
longest-serving U.S. governor using the “bird-hunting rule of
Texas politics,” fellow Republican Bill Ratliff said.  “You shoot at anything that flies,” said Ratliff, who has
known the governor since Perry was in the state Legislature in
the 1980s. “And you claim anything that falls.”  Perry, 61, who once gunned down a coyote with his .380
Ruger while jogging, has said he’s “thinking about” a bid for
the Republican nomination for the White House. A former Democrat
who ran Al Gore’s 1988 presidential campaign in Texas, Perry has
never lost a race in the second most-populous U.S. state. Re-
elected three times, he has been governor for a record 10 years.  “Of all the people likely to jump in, he could have an
effect,” said David P. Redlawsk, Rutgers University politics
professor in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey . “Polling shows there is
unhappiness with the Republican field,” he said. “He could
pull them together.”  Perry, who in April 2009 didn’t dismiss a suggestion that
Texas could secede from the union to escape U.S. mandates, may
rally followers of the Tea Party movement to his side. He based
his 2010 re-election campaign partly on anti-Washington themes.  “I am proud to call myself a conservative, not just
because I’m from Texas, but because conservatives have won the
war of ideas,” Perry told a political gathering in  New York
City  this month. His stances have attracted followers including
Ted Nugent, the guitarist and gun-rights advocate, who played at
Perry’s 2007 inaugural celebration. The performance drew
criticism from Republicans because of a Confederate flag
adorning the musician’s shirt and Nugent’s coarse language.  ‘A Prophet’  The governor’s 2010 book, “Fed Up,” attacks expanding
federal power. In a Fox News interview with Neil Cavuto this
month, Perry suggested that he regards himself as a visionary.  “A prophet generally is not loved in their hometown,”
Perry said when asked why he is sometimes unpopular in Texas.
“That’s both biblical and practical.”  Perry declined a request for an interview through Catherine
Frazier, a spokeswoman. He said May 27 he would consider running
for the Republican nomination once the Texas Legislature is out
of session, the San Antonio Express-News reported. The
Legislature is scheduled to adjourn today.  Raised on a West Texas farm that lacked running water,
Perry followed his father, Ray, into politics in 1984, winning a
seat in the state House of Representatives as a Democrat.
Switching parties in 1989, he rose to lieutenant governor and
succeeded  George W. Bush  when Bush was elected president in
2000.  Adjusting His Message  Perry has won at the polls by reading the political wind
and adjusting his message, said Ratliff, a former lieutenant
governor. In one example, starting in 2007, Perry criticized
Bush over a growing mountain of federal debt. Yet since 2009,
state agencies and colleges and universities have received $13.1
billion from President Barack Obama’s economic-stimulus
initiative, according to a comptroller’s  report .  Texas has racked up the largest growth in jobs and
population among U.S. states while amassing a deficit estimated
to be at least $15 billion for the coming two years. The state
created more than 251,000 jobs in the 12 months through March,
U.S. Labor Department figures show.  The population surged by about 3.9 million in the past
decade, giving the state four new seats in Congress, the biggest
gain for any state, U.S. Census Bureau figures show. Since
December 2000, payroll jobs in  Texas  have grown by more than 1
million, while total U.S. employment was little changed, said
Richard Froeschle, deputy director of Labor Market and Career
Information at the Texas Workforce Commission. He said the state
has led the nation in nongovernment employment expansion in
three of the past four years.  Lower-Wage Jobs  “A lot of the job growth in Texas has occurred in lower-
wage industries, which is problematic but also no different than
in other states,” Froeschle said in an interview. Industries
adding the most jobs over the decade include temporary agencies
and health-care companies, he said.  “People and companies are coming to Texas because of good
public policy that includes low taxes,” said Merrill Matthews,
a resident scholar at the Institute for Policy Innovation, a
conservative research center in  Dallas  that advocates for lower
taxes and smaller government.  While Perry has traveled to U.S. cities, including  New
York , touting his state’s business-friendly environment,
corporate leaders are campaigning against plans to cut higher-
education spending while short-changing primary and secondary
schools by $4 billion in the two years that begin in September.  ‘Risky’ Spending Cuts  Executives including  Ed Whitacre , a former chairman of
Dallas-based  AT&T Inc. (T) , have said that taking that much out of
school funding may make the state less competitive
internationally and domestically. Texas ranks 43rd in graduation
rates among U.S. states, according to the Legislative Budget
Board in Austin.  “For Texas to cut $4 billion from public-school funding
now, when a better-educated Texas can be a bulwark against
future recessions, seems unwise, not conservative and, in fact
very risky,” said Charles C. Butt, chairman of H.E. Butt
Grocery Co. in  San Antonio , in a letter published June 10 in the
Houston Chronicle.  Under the budget passed by lawmakers for the 2012-2013
fiscal years that begin in September, public schools have
started firing teachers and boosting class sizes, while colleges
and universities will get $1.2 billion less than in the current
biennium. The spending plan, which doesn’t raise taxes or use
reserve funds, has prompted a group that includes 250 business
executives from different industries and political parties to
advocate against weakening higher education.  Research Concerns  The governor has appointed regents favoring research
restrictions to oversee the  University of Texas  and Texas A&M
University, the state’s top schools for research. Perry, an A&M
graduate, also has sought the creation of degree programs that
would cost students $10,000 or less to complete.  “We’re faced with serious questions about the validity of
academic research when the rest of the world is aspiring to our
model,” said Charles Tate, a member of the education-advocacy
group.  “People are justifiably concerned that serious damage may
be done,” said Tate, a private-equity investor who started
Capital Royalty LP in Houston and has given to Perry’s
campaigns.  Cotton Farm  Perry, a fifth-generation Texan, rose from his parents’
tenant cotton farm in Haskell County near Paint Creek, about 200
miles (320 kilometers) northwest of Dallas, to attend Texas A&M
in College Station, majoring in animal science. His father
served in local government as a county commissioner and school
board member, according to the governor’s official biography.  After college, Perry joined the U.S.  Air Force  to pilot C-
130 tactical aircraft in the U.S.,  Europe  and the  Middle East .  Limited government with low taxes are deeply held beliefs
for Perry, according to people who know him, including Greg
Biehle, an Austin veterinarian and a friend since college.  “His convictions are very strong and he doesn’t back away
from a fight,” Biehle said in an interview. His politician
friend often takes the time to talk to people one-on-one and has
“an affinity with senior citizens,” the veterinarian said.  Biehle, who has taken care of Perry’s dogs and gone on
dozens of hunting and fishing trips with him, said the governor
has an “amazing knowledge” of military history. Perry left the
Air Force as a captain.  “When we’re sitting around a campfire, the conversation
usually centers on family issues,” Biehle said. Typically,
discussions involved their children’s activities in school, in
church or in the community and challenges they faced, he said.  Childhood Sweethearts  Perry and Anita Thigpen, who met at an elementary school
piano recital, were married in 1982 and have two adult children.
Anita worked in health care after graduating from college with a
nursing degree and earning a master’s in the subject.  Perry’s thoughts of running for president have become more
evident in recent months, Biehle said. “There was a time when I
really thought he would not run, but certain directions that the
country has taken have really bothered him,” he said.  In 1984, Perry ran for and won a seat in the state House of
Representatives as a Democrat. Re-elected in 1988, he led Gore’s
campaign efforts in Texas when the then-senator from  Tennessee 
sought the Democratic presidential nomination that year.  Soon after, Perry followed the example of Phil Gramm, then
a U.S. Senator, and became a Republican, joining a growing
number of Democrats fed up with the direction their party was
taking. Gramm, once a Texas A&M economics teacher, had resigned
from the House in January 1983 as Democrat and was returned to
the seat as a Republican in a special election a month later. In
1984 he was elected to the first of three six-year terms in the
 U.S. Senate .  Party ‘Left Them’  “Conservative Democrats found themselves without a party”
in the mid-1980s, said Ratliff, the former lieutenant governor.
“They didn’t leave the  Democratic Party ; they said the party
left them.”  Helped by Texas political consultant Karl Rove, Perry won
his first statewide race in 1990, to become agriculture
commissioner. He was re-elected in 1994, the year Bush became
governor. In 1998, Perry was elected lieutenant governor; he
took over the top spot in December 2000 after Bush resigned to
prepare for his inauguration as president.  Perry has been elected governor in his own right three
times, winning his third full term in November with about 55
percent of the vote over Democrat Bill White, a former Houston
mayor. The governor earlier beat back a primary challenge,
defeating U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison by almost 21
percentage points, Texas Secretary of State records show.  Cut Spending  He’s the only Texas governor since World War II to cut
general-fund spending from the previous biennium and has
remained opposed to introducing an income tax.  As its population grew during the past decade, Texas led
the U.S. in job growth with a gain of about 880,000, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The performance stemmed from low
taxes, predictable regulation and a diverse workforce, the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce said in a June 20 report. Texas ranked 49th
among U.S. states in terms of per-capita taxes, at $1,434 a year
in 2005, according to a 2009 U.S. Census Bureau report.  Perry has managed the state much the way it has been run
since the days of Reconstruction following the Civil War, said
James Galbraith, an economics professor at the state-supported
University of Texas in Austin. The state has always kept taxes
low and limited the size of its government, he said.  “Crediting low taxes and limited regulation for Texas’s
good years is like saying that  California ’s economy can be
attributed to the Pacific Ocean,” said Galbraith. “Yeah, the
Pacific Ocean is there, but low taxes and limited regulation
have always been there in Texas, too.”  Fiscal Crisis  By the time Perry finished his first decade as governor in
December, the state faced its worst-ever budget crisis with a
projected two-year deficit estimated to be at least $15 billion.
Texas took on more of the cost of funding public schools to
provide property tax relief to residents in 2006, yet receipts
from business taxes it imposed have fallen short, leading to the
outcry from business leaders.  ‘Smaller Government’  “The public wants smaller government, but not at the
expense of services they support,” said Richard Murray, who
teaches politics at the University of Houston. “Education is
one of those services they support.”  Perry has shown resilience even when buffeted by critics
from within his own party.  The governor’s support for the Trans Texas Corridor
project, a $183.5 billion plan to build toll roads alongside
railroad tracks and pipelines, didn’t defeat him, though his
party opposed it. He won re-election even after seeking to have
sixth-grade girls immunized against cervical cancer with Merck &
Co.’s Gardasil. Republicans fought that proposal, too.  “I think Perry has a certain amount of Teflon,” said
Ratliff, the Republican who followed him as lieutenant governor.
“When he stumbles he just rolls with it, avoids the question
and recovers. That’s a real talent when you’re in politics.”  Perry sidestepped controversy last year after he replaced
members of the Texas Forensic Science Commission as they were
looking into the handling of evidence in a 1991 arson case. The
fire led to a death sentence for Cameron Todd Willingham, whose
fate became the subject of a September 2009 New Yorker magazine
article that asked whether an innocent man had been executed.  Raised as a Methodist, Perry now attends Austin’s
nondenominational Lake Hills Church, where services feature loud
rock-inspired music. The congregation’s website includes
quotations from scripture, including one that describes the
Bible as “truth without any mixture of error.”  Prayer Calls  He makes his Christian faith part of his public persona. On
June 6, he declaring Aug. 6 “a day of prayer and fasting for
our nation’s challenges” and invited fellow governors to
Houston for the all-day event. In April, he called for prayers
for rain after drought led to  wildfires  that have scorched more
than 3.2 million acres and destroyed at least 400 homes in the
state this year.  Earlier this month, in a speech colored with religious
references, Perry told an Americans United for Life meeting in
 Los Angeles  that he was proud of signing a law that requires
pregnant women to undergo a sonogram examination before they can
have an abortion. The group started in 1971 to promote
alternatives to abortion.  ‘Breaks My Heart’  “We believe that unborn children deserve the respect of
recognition before their lives are tragically cut short,” Perry
said in his prepared remarks. He said “it breaks my heart”
that there are 80,000 abortions in Texas each year.  Perry is a fitness enthusiast who for about 20 years has
joined a running club three mornings a week for workouts led by
Paul R. Carrozza, owner of Austin’s four-store RunTex Inc. shoe
and apparel chain. At one point four or five years ago, Perry
ran a 5-kilometer (3-mile) course in 21 minutes, said Carrozza,
who also worked out with Bush.  “Athletics is a reflection of someone’s personality and
Rick stays on a program, he does the real hard work and he’s not
a poser,” said Carrozza, who has urged Perry to run for
president. “He’s been groomed for this for a lifetime. He’s the
right guy at the right time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  