-- 
Facebook Backer Accel Joins $30 Million Venture Investment in RockMelt

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-06-29T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/facebook-backer-accel-joins-30-million-investment-in-rockmelt.html
RockMelt Inc. , the Web-browser
startup backed by Netscape Communications Corp. founder Marc Andreessen, raised an additional $30 million as it seeks to
challenge browsers from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Mozilla Corp.  Venture capitalists Accel Partners and Khosla Ventures
joined existing investors -- including Andreessen’s firm,
Andreessen Horowitz LLC -- in the funding.  Vinod Khosla  and
Accel’s Jim Breyer, a member of  Facebook  Inc.’s board, will
become advisors to RockMelt’s board.  Founded in 2008, RockMelt developed a browser that lets
users access social-networking services such as Facebook and
Twitter Inc. while surfing the Internet. Breyer and Accel bring
RockMelt one step closer to Facebook, which already forged a
partnership with the browser earlier this month to help it add
more social features.  “The Web and social have changed patterns so dramatically
that a new browser experience could become very fundamental,”
said Breyer, who is based in  Palo Alto ,  California . “Companies
that are building deep technologies on top of and around
Facebook have significant upside potential.”  RockMelt, based in  Mountain View , California, plans to
almost double  its staff  of 38 by the end of the year, adding
marketing and business-development people to complement its
workforce of mostly engineers. The capital will also be put
toward building new capabilities for the browser, such as search
features, music and gaming, said Eric Vishria,  RockMelt ’s co-
founder and chief executive officer.  Built-In Features  “We want to build all the services people use every day
into the browser,” Vishria said.  The software has been downloaded by 1 million people and is
used regularly by hundreds of thousands, the company said.
RockMelt previously raised $10 million in 2009 from investors
such as Andreessen and Intuit Inc. chairman Bill Campbell.  In May, Microsoft’s Internet Explorer was used by 54
percent of Web surfers, according to data tracker  Net
Applications . Mozilla’s Firefox had 22 percent, while Google’s
Chrome browser had 13 percent.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is an
investor in Andreessen Horowitz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  