-- 
Federal Reserve Approves 21-Cent Cap for Debit Swipe Fees

-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-06-29T22:54:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/fed-officials-weigh-21-cent-cap-on-debit-card-fees-up-from-12-cent-plan.html
The Federal Reserve Board set a 21-
cent cap on debit-card transaction fees, a less-severe limit on
banks and payment networks than it previously proposed.
Financial stocks surged.  The rule approved 4-1 by the Fed governors today almost
doubles the 12-cent ceiling that the central bank first
suggested in December. The no vote was cast by  Elizabeth Duke ,
who said the measure was likely to harm small banks and raise
the costs for checking account holders. Other governors, who
voiced similar concerns, said the central bank had to weigh in
after Congress required it to address the fees.  “This is the best available solution,” said Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who called the process “one of our most
challenging rulemakings.”  While the order was a relief to the financial industry, the
21-cent cap also will reduce costs for retailers, who currently
pay banks an average 44 cents per transaction.  Still, the Retail Industry Leaders Association, a trade
group that helped lead the successful effort to get Congress to
pass the fee reduction, said the Fed had caved in to big banks
and the payment networks by raising the cap from 12 cents.  “The Federal Reserve today has badly damaged its
credibility,” Sandy Kennedy, the group’s president, said in a
statement.  Banking groups also said they were at least somewhat
dissatisfied.  ‘Real Concern’  Frank Keating , president of the  American Bankers
Association , which represents banks of all sizes, said the Fed
“has taken a significant step in reducing the harm that could
have resulted from the proposed rule.”  Nevertheless, Keating said, the rule will slice 45 percent
of the banks’ swipe-fee revenue, which he said the industry uses
to provide low-cost accounts, fight fraud and maintain the U.S.
payments system.  “This remains a real concern to banks everywhere and the
consumers and communities they serve,” he said. “Consumers
will still feel the impact of this direct transfer of costs from
big-box retailers to everyday Americans.”  The  Independent Community Bankers of America  trade group
said in a statement that the Fed rule “is still government
price-fixing” at a level below the current market rate.  Network Rules  “There is no doubt that consumers will feel the effects of
this harmful rule,” the association said.  The rule also requires card-issuing banks to give merchants
the choice of using at least two unaffiliated payment networks
when they process debit transactions. That could create more
competition for  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and  Visa Inc. (V) , the world’s
largest payment networks, which have been able to negotiate
exclusive deals to handle the processing.  Investors displayed relief that the Fed didn’t choose a
plan that could be more of a threat to the business model of
MasterCard and Visa, and their shares rose sharply.  The fee cap, originally scheduled for July 21 under the
Dodd-Frank Act, will now go into effect on Oct. 1; the network
exclusivity provision on April 1, 2012.  MasterCard, in a statement, called the Fed’s move progress,
but said it didn’t take into account all the costs associated
with debit transactions.  The rule “still represents a government price control,”
said Chris McWilton, president of U.S. markets for the company.
“Setting price caps will create distortions in the market and
harm consumers.”  Visa Outlook  Erica Harvill, a Visa spokeswoman, said executives of the
San Francisco-based company will discuss the new rules and
provide an update of their financial outlook on a conference
call scheduled for July 6.  On fees, the Fed will allow banks to tack on five basis
points of each transaction to pay for fraud costs. For the
average payment of $38, that would add almost 2 cents to the 21-
cent cap.  The Fed also said that banks following certain fraud
prevention standards can add an additional 1 cent per
transaction fee. That provision was passed on a conditional
basis so the Fed can solicit public comments.  Debit fees, known as interchange, are set by Visa and
MasterCard and passed on to the banks that issue the cards.
Merchants say the payments can be their highest expense after
labor.  Lobbying Effort  The banks, which collect about $16 billion a year from
debit swipe-fees, has fought to retain the revenue and mounted a
massive lobbying effort to get the Fed’s rule postponed or
killed. The Senate on June 8 narrowly rejected a six-month
delay.  To make up for some of their lost revenue, banks are moving
to eliminate perks associated with  debit cards , including
rewards programs and free checking accounts.  Banks with less than $10 billion in assets are exempt from
the rule, as are reloadable prepaid cards.  Consumers have embraced debit cards, which deduct money
directly from a checking account. There were 38 billion debit
transactions in 2009, the Fed has said, making it the most
popular form of non-cash payment.  Visa and MasterCard both surged more than 10 percent after
the Fed moved to lift the cap. Visa advanced $11.29, or 15
percent, to $86.57 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, the most since March 2008. MasterCard climbed
11 percent to $309.70, the biggest gain since February 2009.  Three-Party Networks  The shares of both Visa and Purchase, New York-based
MasterCard had fallen more than 10 percent on Dec. 16 amid
investor concern the limits would damage their business.  So-called “three-party” payment networks including New
York-based  American Express Co. (AXP)  and  Discover Financial Services (DFS) 
also climbed as the Fed excluded the firms from the rule because
they use a different business model. Unlike Visa and MasterCard,
which process payments and rely on banks including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  to
issue their cards, three-party networks perform both functions.  AmEx, the biggest credit-card issuer by consumer purchases,
climbed $1.28, or 2.6 percent, to $50.92, the most since March.
Riverwoods, Illinois-based Discover, this year’s top performer
in the 82-company S&P 500 Financials Index, rose 1.8 percent to
$26.61, the highest since July 2007.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Schmidt in  Washington  at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 