-- 
Raskin Says Income Inequality Among Americans Undermining Economic Growth

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-06-29T17:00:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/fed-s-raskin-says-income-inequality-hinders-economy-s-ability-to-recover.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said the financial inequality resulting from stagnating
incomes for most Americans and rapid growth in wealth for the
richest 1 percent is hindering the U.S. economic recovery.  “This inequality is destabilizing and undermines the
ability of the economy to grow sustainably and efficiently,”
Raskin said today to a forum in Washington sponsored by the  New
America Foundation . The disparities help “drag down maximum
economic growth and are anathema to the social progress that is
part and parcel of such growth,” she said.  Raskin backed the Fed’s unanimous decision last week to
sustain record monetary stimulus with the aim of spurring the
economic recovery and reducing unemployment, which rose last
month to 9.1 percent. Policy makers boosted their forecasts for
unemployment and cut their forecasts for growth this year and
next while deciding to maintain the Fed’s System Open Market
Account domestic securities holdings near $2.66 trillion and its
main interest rate near zero.  “Finding ways to help more Americans safely grow their
incomes and net worth in real terms arguably diminishes the
destructive influence of  income inequality  by giving everyone a
more secure footing in the economy and the same kind of
flexibility and choice available to the more affluent,” Raskin
said.  Raskin didn’t speak about the immediate economic outlook or
the Fed’s plans to end its $600 billion bond-buying program on
June 30 as scheduled. She supported the plan, begun in early
November, just a month after she took her post at the central
bank.  Consumer Spending   Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said the bond purchases
are intended to encourage consumer spending and fuel growth.
Still, the stimulus plan isn’t a panacea for the economy’s
problems, and unemployment probably won’t return to a more
normal level of 5.5 percent until the middle of this decade, he
has said in speeches and congressional testimony.  Raskin cited the Fed’s Survey of Consumer Finances,
released in March, which showed the poorest 20 percent of
families saw their net worth fall by 18 percent from 2007 to
2009 and households in the middle of the  income distribution  saw
their wealth decline by 21 percent. Raskin also cited statistics
on these families’ access to financial services, saying one in
four households earning $15,000 a year or less don’t hold a bank
savings or checking account.  ‘In Danger’  Raskin said the financial crisis “has left many lower- and
moderate-income Americans in danger” and that regulators must
work to help these consumers gain access to financial services.  “It is incumbent upon regulators to ensure that these
products and services are safe, affordable, transparent and easy
to understand, regardless of the provider,” said Raskin, who
was appointed to the Fed’s board by President  Barack Obama ,
after serving as  Maryland ’s commissioner of financial
regulation.  “In some cases, regulators may need to ban products that
are inherently unfair or deceptive,” she said. “Regulators
must also actively monitor the consumer financial market to
guard against developments that might threaten the stability of
the overall economy.”  Regulation and innovation by financial firms aren’t
“inherently contradictory,” Raskin said in response to an
audience question. Financial institutions should help to reduce
inequalities in income and in access to financial services, she
said.  In previous speeches as a Fed governor, she has called for
the swift implementation of the Dodd Frank Act. The law, enacted
last year, overhauls the nation’s financial rulebook with the
goal of preventing another financial crisis.  Raskin, in remarks in April, said regulators will
“certainly be dealing with the long-term consequences of the
crisis for years to come.” That fallout, she has said, included
“dislocation, joblessness and loss of confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in  Washington  at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  