-- 
Fed Extends Dollar ‘Swap’ Arrangements With ECB Amid European Debt Woes

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-06-29T15:28:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/fed-ecb-extend-swap-arrangements-amid-european-debt-woes.html
The  Federal Reserve  extended a
program that makes dollars available to central banks in Europe
and Canada if needed to ease credit strains.  The so-called swap arrangements with the European Central
Bank, the  Bank of England , the Swiss National Bank and the Bank
of Canada were extended until Aug. 1, 2012, the U.S. central
bank said today in Washington.  The Bank of  Japan  will consider an extension at its next
monetary policy meeting, according to the Fed. The swap
arrangements were scheduled to end this year on Aug. 1.  The announcement came minutes before Greek Prime Minister
George Papandreou clinched enough votes to pass the first part
of an austerity plan aimed at meeting European Union aid
requirements and staving off default for his debt-laden nation.  The swap lines haven’t been used since March, when the
 European Central Bank  tapped $70 million. Use of the program had
peaked in May of last year, shortly after the arrangements were
set up. The Fed lent the European Central Bank $9.2 billion at
that time, and the sum was repaid.  “It is a low-cost backup facility that keeps a safety net
in place,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York . “Sure, it hasn’t been used
recently. But why not keep it open just in case. It makes a lot
of sense.”  Operations in U.S.  Under the program, the Fed lends dollars to participating
central banks in other countries. In turn, the central banks
lend the money to commercial banks whose customers may need
dollars. European companies that have operations in the U.S. pay
their employees in dollars and buy raw materials with the U.S.
currency.  Feroli said there’s been little use of the program recently
because there hasn’t been a “whole lot of stress in overseas
dollar funding markets.” If that were to change, the Fed has a
program in place to help, he said.  The swap arrangements were created in May of last year when
the debt crisis in  Europe  worsened. At that time, the Fed
reopened the program, which was in use during the 2008 global
financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at  