-- 
Federer’s Two-Set Invincibility Ended by Tsonga in Wimbledon Quarterfinals

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-29T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/federer-s-two-set-grand-slam-perfection-is-ended-by-tsonga-at-wimbledon.html
Roger Federer  has compiled serious
streaks while becoming the most successful player in men’s
professional tennis. His 16 Grand Slam titles are a record, and
he holds the mark for consecutive major semifinals, with 23.  A streak of invincibility ended in the quarterfinals at
Wimbledon yesterday. The 29-year-old from  Switzerland  lost to
 France ’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga after winning the first two sets,
ending a 178-0 run for Federer after going up 2-0 in Grand Slam
matches.  Tsonga won 3-6, 6-7 (3-7), 6-4, 6-4, 6-4 on Centre Court,
ending Federer’s chances of a record-tying seventh Wimbledon
singles title.  “He hung in there,” Federer said in a news conference.
“I was controlling the match. He just continued serving great.
He only needed a couple of breaks to end up bringing it home. He
did a really good job doing that very well.”  After dropping his serve in the second game of the match,
the 12th-seeded Tsonga never faced another break point in 23
service games, and Federer was out in the Wimbledon
quarterfinals for the second year in a row.  “It was more just a serving contest,” said Federer, the
oldest man in the quarterfinals. “Good 1-2 punches.”  Tsonga never doubted the outcome.  “I felt so good on the court,” the 26-year-old Frenchman
said in a news conference. “Even at two sets down, because I
was in the quarterfinals against Roger Federer. The stadium was
full. It was 6-3, 7-6. I was not ridiculous. I was in my
match.”  Two Losses  In his 13-year career, Federer has only lost twice after
winning the first two sets, against  Lleyton Hewitt  of Australia
in the 2003 Davis Cup semifinals and against  David Nalbandian  of
 Argentina  in the final of the 2005 Tennis Masters Cup in
 Shanghai .  His defeat against Tsonga was “easier to digest” than
last year’s quarterfinal loss to eventual runner-up Tomas Berdych of the  Czech Republic , Federer said yesterday.  “Even though this one was in five sets and I was up two
sets-to-love, I don’t really feel like I lost from two-sets-to-
love up,” Federer said. “Kind of a strange feeling because I
did play well myself. I can’t blame my poor returning or my poor
serving or my poor movement or anything like that in this match,
and that makes it a bit easier.”  Tsonga served 18 aces, one more than Federer. The Frenchman
made 22 unforced errors but produced 63 winners. Federer had 57
winners and 11 errors.  “I never panicked,” Tsonga said. “I was not scared on
the big points.”  French Advance  Tsonga is the first Frenchman to reach the semifinals since
 Richard Gasquet  in 2007. He’ll play second-seeded Novak Djokovic
tomorrow for a spot in the championship match, against the
winner of the other semifinal between top-ranked  Rafael Nadal  of
 Spain  and  Andy Murray  of Britain.  Djokovic, a Serb whose only loss this year was against
Federer in the  French Open  semifinals, beat Australian qualifier
Bernard Tomic, 6-2, 3-6, 6-3, 7-5. Nadal beat Mardy Fish of the
U.S. 6-3, 6-3, 5-7, 6-4, and Murray defeated Feliciano Lopez of
Spain 6-3, 6-4, 6-4.  Federer lost in the final of the French Open this month to
Nadal, who won for the second straight year and sixth overall.
That was Federer’s first Grand Slam final since he won the 2010
Australian Open for his men’s record-extending 16th Grand Slam
singles title.  Australia ’s  Margaret Smith Court  won 24 major
singles championships.  The third-seeded Federer discarded suggestions his best
years are now behind him.  No ‘Shocker’  “I don’t think so,” he said. “Look, I played too good.
It wasn’t a shocker second-round loss in straight sets, some
stupid match I played. It was a great match from both sides. To
talk bad about this match would be unfortunate. I really did
play well, and I also thought Jo played an amazing match, as
good as I’ve seen him play for such a long period of time.”  Federer said he’s taking a lot of positives out of losing
at Wimbledon, where he made every final from 2003 through 2009.  “I’m actually pretty pleased with my performance,” he
said. “It’s kind of hard going out of the tournament that way,
but unfortunately it does happen sometimes. At least it took
him, sort of a special performance to beat me, which is somewhat
nice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 