-- 
Ferrexpo Rises on Reported Speculation BHP May Propose a Bid

-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-06-29T17:06:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/ferrexpo-rises-most-in-two-months-on-report-bhp-may-make-a-bid.html
Ferrexpo Plc (FXPO) , a producer of iron ore
in Ukraine, rose in London trading after a newspaper reported on
speculation that BHP Billiton Ltd. may propose a takeover bid.  Ferrexpo rose 2.6 percent to 469.6 pence by the 4:30 p.m.
close in London. BHP may offer between 650 pence and 700 pence a
share, the Independent reported, citing “vague speculation.”  “The shares are reacting to the comments that have gone up
a gear in the last 24-48 hours,” said  Charles Kernot , director
of metals and mining at Evolution Securities. “It seems
unlikely as the main shareholder hasn’t shown any interest in
selling his stake and he’s keen on developing the company.”  Kelly Quirke, a spokeswoman for BHP, and Ingrid Boon,
Ferrexpo’s head of investor relations, declined to comment.  Ferrexpo Chief Executive Officer Kostyantin Zhevago, who
owns 51  percent , plans to invest as much as $1.5 billion to
double iron-ore output to 20 million metric tons by 2016. The
company in April priced $500 million of bonds to fund growth.  Prices for iron ore delivered to China, the largest user of
the steelmaking ingredient, jumped 21 percent in the past year
and have risen almost threefold since 2009.  “Any major iron-ore producer would probably be interested
to buy Ferrexpo if Zhevago does decide to sell,” Kernot said,
citing the company’s resources. Ferrexpo owns the fourth-largest
iron-ore reserves after  Vale SA (VALE5) ,  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  and BHP,
Zhevago said in an interview last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  