-- 
Florida Joins U.S. States in Budget Stress Adding Pension Costs to Workers

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-06-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/florida-joins-u-s-states-in-budget-stress-adding-pension-costs-to-workers.html
Florida, where legislators and
Governor  Rick Scott  closed a $3.8 billion 2012 budget deficit
last month, will join at least 16 other U.S. states increasing
retirement costs for public workers.  Government staffers must pay 3 percent of salaries to their
retirements under the Florida law, effective July 1, saving the
state, counties, school systems, public colleges, universities
and other entities $2 billion next year, Scott said last week.  Arizona ,  New Mexico  and  California  also raised or imposed
employee-pension contributions in the past two years, said Keith Brainard, research director of the National Association of State
Retirement Administrators. New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
signed such legislation yesterday. They acted after market
declines depleted pension assets and tax revenue stagnated in
the longest recession since World War II.  “States are making changes to pension-benefit levels,
contribution requirements or both,” Brainard said in an e-mail.
 Utah ,  Connecticut ,  Tennessee  and  Oregon  are the only ones that
don’t require worker payments, he said.  Employee contributions will help New Jersey shore up its
pension, which is among those nationwide with liabilities
exceeding assets by almost $480 billion in 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg in April. The payments will assist
Florida in closing its deficit, part of the $103 billion of gaps
states face in fiscal 2012, according to a  report yesterday  from
the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities , which studies issues
affecting low- and moderate-income families.  Expense Relief  Florida counties will be relieved of almost $600 million of
expenses by the new law. Miami-Dade, largest of the 67, will
save $114 million, according to a June 6 report, as it works to
close a budget gap estimated in December at $258 million. Costs
will fall $14.2 million in Hillsborough County, which is moving
after-school programs to outside providers to save money.  “With local budgets as tight as they’ve been, any savings
are no longer marginal,” said Cragin Mosteller, the spokeswoman
for the  Florida Association of Counties .  Governor Scott, a first-term Republican, had called for
workers to contribute 5 percent of their salaries. The
Legislature backed the 3 percent payment, which Scott accepted
when he signed a $69.1 billion 2012 budget in May.  “Without reform,  Florida ’s government pensions and
retirement system put a heavy burden on our state’s taxpayers,”
he said in a June 23  statement . The employee payments, plus
curbs to cost-of-living increases and extended retirement dates
for new workers, will save the state $356.8 million, he said.  The new rules cover state and municipal employees in the
$131 billion  Florida Retirement System , the fourth-largest U.S.
public plan with about 900,000 active and retired participants.  School-Cost Cuts  In addition to saving money for the state and counties, the
law will lower costs for Florida public colleges and
universities by $123 million, according to the governor. Local
school districts will save $819 million, prompting a suit from
the  Florida Education Association , which likened the
contribution requirement to a salary reduction.  “This pay cut was used by legislative leadership to make
up a budget shortfall on the backs of teachers, law-enforcement
officers, firefighters and other state workers,” Andy Ford,
president of the union, said in a  statement . Florida “may not
unilaterally change the covenant it made with current
employees,” Ford said.  Localities that don’t participate in the state retirement
system have taken their own actions to reduce pension costs as
their main source of revenue -- property taxes -- has shrunk
with declining home values.  Financial Urgency  The city of Miami, which has its own pension and faces a
2012  budget deficit  of about $54 million, reduced retirement
costs by $43.3 million last year after imposing benefit
reductions on police, firefighters and other city employees by
declaring a “financial urgency” under state law.  Real-estate-tax collections by U.S. local governments in
the first three months of the year fell 1.7 percent, the Census
Bureau reported yesterday, the second straight quarterly
decline. That’s as property values in 20 cities fell 4 percent
in the year ended in April, the most in 17 months, according to
the S&P/Case-Shiller Index released yesterday.  Atlanta’s City Council began discussing a proposal last
week to save $215 million over the next decade by increasing
employee contributions to the pension to 13 percent of salary
from 8 percent. The nation’s ninth-most-populous city has a $1.5
billion gap between pension assets and obligations, Chief
Operating Officer Peter Aman said last week.  In Florida, real-estate values have fallen 28 percent from
their peak in 2007,  according  to the Legislature’s research
office. That means even with savings from new pension rules,
spending cuts will still be needed in places like Miami-Dade
County.  “While the gap is smaller than we projected in our five-
year financial forecast, it remains daunting,” said County
Manager  Alina Hudak . “Balancing this year’s budget will almost
certainly require a combination of cutting our workforce -- and
the services it provides -- and reducing the compensation to
those who remain.”  To contact the writer of this column:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 