-- 
Foreigners Cut Bill Holdings to Six-Month Low on Peso Slump: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-06-29T21:21:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/foreigners-cut-cetes-holdings-to-six-month-low-mexico-credit.html
Foreign investors are reducing their
 holdings  of the shortest-term Mexican government bills to a six-
month low as slowing U.S. growth fuels a slide in the peso.  International investors held 138.5 billion pesos ($11.7
billion) of the securities, known as Cetes, as of June 17, down
23 percent from the previous week and the lowest level since
Jan. 13, according to the central bank. Cetes due in 28 days
yield 4.33 percent, compared with -0.005 percent for similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Speculation the flagging economic expansion in the U.S.
will erode demand for  Mexico ’s exports is making the peso the
worst-performing currency in  Latin America  this month. Mexico’s
economy, which sends about 80 percent of its exports to the
U.S., grew 2.4 percent in April from a year earlier, the slowest
pace since November 2008, the national statistics agency said
yesterday.  “The peso was sold off as concern about the U.S. growth
became more evident,” Gorky Urquieta, who oversees about $15
billion of emerging-market assets at ING Investment Management
in Atlanta, said in a telephone interview. “As the U.S. data
deteriorates, this is one of the first things people look to
unwind.”  The peso fell 1.6 percent this month to 11.7537 per  U.S.
dollar , paring its advance this year to 5 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield difference between Mexican
peso bonds due in 2020 and similar-maturity Treasuries has
widened 7 basis points to 371 this year.  Bullish Bets  Hedge funds  and other investors are cutting their bullish
bets on the peso to the lowest level since September, according
to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Wagers on the peso
strengthening against the dollar outnumbered bets on a decline
in the futures market by 41,423 contracts last week, less than
one third of the record 134,129 set in April.  Foreigners boosted their holdings of Cetes to a record 204
billion pesos in March from 27 billion pesos in September to tap
into the peso’s rally and a higher-yielding alternative to  U.S.
debt , said Javier Belaunzaran, who helps manage about 40 billion
pesos at Interacciones Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City, in a
telephone interview.  “This exercise is losing a little steam,” Belaunzaran
said.  Investors will be drawn back to Cetes as inflation remains
in check and the Federal Reserve holds off on raising  interest
rates , said Alejandro Padilla, a debt strategist at Grupo
Financiero Banorte-Ixe in Mexico City.  Inflation slowed to 3.2 percent in the 12 months through
mid-June and reached a five-year low of 3.04 percent in March.
Prices rose 3.6 percent in the U.S. in May, more than the median
estimate for a gain of 3.4 percent.  Rate Outlook  The Fed will keep the overnight benchmark lending rate
between zero and 0.25 percent for at least two or three more
policy meetings, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 22.
Traders in the rate-futures market are betting Mexican central
bank Governor Agustin Carstens will wait until January to raise
borrowing costs. Policy makers held the lending rate at a record
low 4.5 percent last month, the only major Latin American
country to keep borrowing costs unchanged in the past year.  “The  Federal Reserve  will maintain its monetary policy for
at least eight months and Banxico will stay put until next
year,” Padilla said in a telephone interview. “We have very
good inflation figures. From now on, we will continue to see
foreigners with strong appetite for Cetes.”  Default Swaps  A central bank press official didn’t return a call for
comment.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 11 basis points
to 125 at 5 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell two basis points to 111, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso rose 0.5 percent today.  Yields on the 28-day interbank rate futures due in January,
known as TIIE, fell 2 basis points to 4.97 percent.  Federal Reserve officials last week cut their 2011 and 2012
growth forecasts for the  U.S. economy . The world’s biggest
economy will expand by 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent this year,
down from April’s forecasts of 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent, based
on the median range of projections.  “If you have potentially a big U.S. slowdown, the Mexican
economy will get hit,” said ING Investment’s Urquieta. “You
tend to see a bit of reaction to that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  