-- 
Foster's Bond Risk Surges as Debt Penalized by Takeover: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-06-30T04:03:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/foster-s-bond-risk-soars-on-indebted-sab-bid-australia-credit.html
The stock market loves  SABMiller
Plc (SAB) ’s A$9.5 billion ($10 billion) takeover bid for  Foster’s
Group Ltd. (FGL)  Debt investors aren’t so keen.  Foster’s bond risk surged to a two-year high after the
Australian brewer rejected the debt-financed offer by the
world’s second-largest brewer by volume on June 21. More than
$150 billion of brewery deals in five years have helped drive up
beer maker valuations, making Foster’s shares the second
priciest in the world, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The equity holders are happy, obviously, but from a
credit perspective there are concerns,” said  Michael Bush ,
Melbourne-based head of credit research at National  Australia 
Bank Ltd. “The key issue for Foster’s bondholders is that they
may be left holding debt in a weaker entity than what they’ve
got now.”  Credit-default swaps on Foster’s have jumped 9.8 basis
points to 97.3 basis points since London-based SABMiller
announced its offer for the Melbourne-based company, CMA prices
show. They reached 99 basis points on June 27, the highest level
since May 2009, and the most expensive relative to global peers
in at least two years, the data show. Contracts on SABMiller,
which plans to fund its bid with about $10 billion of debt
people familiar with the matter said June 21, increased 24.4
basis points to 106.8 in the same period.  Foster’s shares, buoyed by expectations that a successful
buyer will have to beat SABMiller’s proposal, trade with a
price-to-earnings ratio of 19.25, based on estimates for profit
in 2012, Bloomberg data show. That ranks the company the second
dearest among 21 beverage-making peers globally. Only Boston
Beer Co., maker of Samuel Adams, is more expensive.  Brewery Takeovers  Valuations climbed after global brewery takeovers reached
$151.5 billion since June 2006, Bloomberg data show. Those
takeovers include InBev NV’s $60.8 billion acquisition of
Anheuser-Busch Cos.  Foster’s shares were unchanged at A$5.16 at 12:56 p.m. in
Sydney, above SABMiller’s A$4.90 per-share cash offer. The
stock, after adjusting for the spun-off wine unit, has surged 25
percent since announcing on May 26 last year it was considering
a split into separate companies. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index
has gained 7.5 percent in the same period.  Credit-default swaps on Foster’s have climbed twice as fast
this month as an index of contracts on 41 food and beverage
companies globally, including  Japan ’s Kirin Holdings Co. and
Heineken NV, CMA and Bloomberg data show.  Bond Spreads Widen  The extra yield investors demand to own Foster’s $300
million of 7.875 percent notes due June 2016 instead of similar-
maturity Treasuries reached 166 basis points on June 28, the
highest since Jan. 3, according to Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. prices. The spread on SABMiller’s $700
million of 6.5 percent bonds maturing in July 2018 increased 22
basis points this month to 144 basis points, BNP Paribas SA
prices show.  Buying Foster’s would give SABMiller, the maker of  Peroni 
and Grolsch, access to a “resilient” Australian economy, where
disposable income is increasing, SABMiller Chief Executive
Officer Graham Mackay said June 21.  Foster’s said today it’s had no contact with its suitor
since rejecting the offer, even after SABMiller said June 21 it
would “seek engagement.”  “No contact at all,” Foster’s CEO  John Pollaers  said in
an interview in  Melbourne  today. “For us it’s just business as
usual. I’m not, and the team aren’t, allowing anything to
distract us.”  SABMiller declined to comment, said Jim Kelly at the
brewer’s media advisor in Australia, Financial Dynamics.  Economic Growth  Economists expect Australia’s gross domestic product to
increase 2.8 percent in 2011 and 4 percent in 2012 as a mining
boom fuels expansion, Bloomberg surveys show. That compares to
growth forecasts of 2 percent this year and 1.7 percent in 2012
in  Europe .  Yields on Australia’s benchmark 10-year bond climbed 5
basis points to 5.24 percent at 1:58 p.m. in Sydney today.
Australian bonds are set for a sixth month of gains, the longest
stretch since the period ended January 2009.  Demand for commodities has helped Australia’s currency gain
28 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the past 12 months, adding
to the price of a Foster’s takeover for a foreign buyer such as
SABMiller. The so-called Aussie reached $1.1012 on May 2, the
highest since exchange controls were scrapped in 1983, and
traded at $1.0737 at 2 p.m. in Sydney today.  SABMiller’s Mackay told analysts last week that Australia
is among the world’s most profitable countries to make and sell
beer. It takes the average worker 12 minutes to earn enough
money to buy half a liter of beer, less time than in  Canada  or
in  Spain , he said.  Drinking Beer  Australians are drinking less beer individually although
 population growth  is increasing the overall market. Per capita
consumption of beer hasn’t risen since 2003, according to the
 Australian Bureau of Statistics . The average Australian adult
drinks 105.38 liters of beer a year, down from 114.59 liters
seven years ago, the latest ABS data shows.  Foster’s has A$2.77 billion of bonds and loans outstanding,
and an equity market value of A$10 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. SABMiller has $9.77 billion of debt and a
total stock value of $55.7 billion, the data show.  Under SABMiller’s proposed takeover, the biggest in the
beer industry since 2008, the company’s net debt to Ebitda ratio
would climb to about 3 times from about 1, Chief Financial
Officer Malcolm Wyman said last week. That’s higher than the
company’s optimal ratio of between 2 and 2.5 times, he said.  Credit Ratings  SABMiller would be left with an “investment grade” credit
rating after buying Foster’s, Wyman said. For “attractive”
deals, SABMiller could tolerate a ratio as high as 3.5 times, he
said. Moody’s Investors Service rates Foster’s Baa2, two levels
above junk status. SABMiller is rated one level higher at Baa1.  A takeover by SABMiller would help both companies,  New York 
based Moody’s said in a June 27 report. Foster’s would benefit
from being part of a materially larger and higher-rated company,
while SABMiller would get access to a profitable cash-generating
business and reduce its reliance on developing markets, Moody’s
said.  Still, “absent an equity injection, a deal would add
substantial debt to SABMiller’s balance sheet at the outset and
weaken its financial profile,” Moody’s said.  SABMiller has earned a reputation for not overpaying for
assets. Mackay has made more than two dozen acquisitions since
he moved the company’s listing to  London  in 1999. Foster’s, the
world’s most profitable independent major brewer, would be his
biggest purchase yet and would land him about half the
Australian market and the top-selling brew in  Victoria Bitter .  “We are beer people,” and Foster’s profit margins could
widen under SABMiller’s ownership, Mackay said June 21. He
couldn’t specify the potential cost savings of any deal.
SABMiller expects a takeover to boost earnings in the first
year.  Foster’s share of the Australian market fell to about 50
percent at the end of June 2010, down from 54 percent four years
earlier, the company said in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  