-- 
Canadian Inflation Surges to Fastest Since 2003 in May Driven by Gasoline

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-06-29T14:34:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/funerals-added-to-inflation-basket-as-canada-tweaks-price-index.html
Canada ’s inflation rate unexpectedly
accelerated in May to the fastest since March 2003, sparking the
biggest gain in the country’s currency this month as investors
increased bets the central bank will raise  interest rates .  The consumer-price index rose 3.7 percent from a year
earlier, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa, exceeding all
24 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of economists. The median
estimate was for a rate of 3.3 percent in May, matching the
increases in March and April.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said June 22 that
energy costs and temporary effects such as provincial sales-tax
increases will keep inflation above 3 percent “in the short
term.” Price gains will slow to a 2 percent pace by mid-2012
when the economy will be operating at full output, he  told  the
Senate banking committee.  The report is “confirming less slack in the economy than
the Bank of Canada thinks,” said Sheryl King, head of Canada
economics at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Toronto. “The
risk is they go earlier than October” to increase the policy
interest rate, she said.  The Canadian dollar appreciated as much as 1.2 percent to
today to 96.97 cents per  U.S. dollar , the biggest gain since May
31. The currency traded for 97.32 cents at 9:52 a.m. in Toronto,
from 98.12 yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0276.  Yields Rise  The yield on the two-year Government of Canada bond
increased 6 basis points to 1.51 percent, and the December
bankers acceptance contract yield rose to 1.44 percent from 1.40
percent.  The core inflation rate, which excludes eight volatile
items such as gasoline, accelerated to a 1.8 percent year-over-
year pace in May. Economists forecast it would slow to 1.5
percent from April’s 1.6 percent advance.  Quicker price gains were led by gasoline and were seen in
every major category except shelter,  Statistics Canada  said.  “Gasoline prices rose 29.5 percent, the largest increase
since September 2005, when prices rose in the aftermath of
 Hurricane Katrina ,” Statistics Canada said. Excluding gasoline,
inflation accelerated to 2.4 percent from 2.2 percent.  Prices for food bought at stores rose 4.2 percent in May
from a year earlier, faster than April’s 3.7 percent pace, the
statistics agency said. “Prices increased for many staples,
such as meat, bread and fresh milk,” the agency said.  Clothing and footwear prices rose 1.1 percent in May from a
year earlier.  Profit Margins  Lululemon Athletica Inc. Chief Financial Officer John Currie said at a June 14 presentation that rising wages and
material costs would reduce profit margins by as much as 2.5
percentage points in the second half of the year.  “Everybody’s talked about inflation, whether it’s in terms
of cotton, oil-based products, also labor rates in  China  and
elsewhere,” Currie said. The company is based in  Vancouver .  On a monthly basis, consumer prices rose 0.7 percent in May
from April, and the core measure rose 0.5 percent. Economists
forecast monthly inflation of 0.3 percent and core prices rising
0.2 percent, according to surveys.  Tomorrow, Statistics Canada will probably report that gross
domestic product shrank 0.1 percent in April, according to the
median of 22 responses in a Bloomberg survey. Carney said last
week that growth this quarter may be less than the bank’s
previous projection of 2 percent on an annualized basis, and
that  Greece ’s fiscal crisis is a risk to the recovery.  ‘Tip the Balance’  Today’s inflation figures will “tip the balance a little
bit towards the domestic” risks from external ones, said Dawn Desjardins, assistant chief economist at Royal  Bank of Canada  in
Toronto. She predicts a September rate increase.  The cost of funerals, smartphones and retail-club
memberships are being reflected in Canada’s inflation index for
the first time today as Statistics Canada adjusted the measure
to reflect changing consumer habits. The content of the so-
called basket of household items is being slightly altered, and
the relative importance of items will now be based on 2009
spending patterns instead of 2005 weights. The basket is updated
every four years, a job the agency may start doing more often.  “The pace of technological progress and changes in the
marketplace seem to be occurring a lot faster,” Marc
Prud’homme, a senior economist in the consumer prices division,
said in a telephone interview before today’s release. “Sometime
in the near future, we might be increasing the pace at which we
upgrade our basket.”  The changes are neutral when it comes to how inflation will
behave in the future, Prud’homme said. “It’s based on results
from consumer expenditure surveys that determine how much people
spend on milk, how much they spend on eggs, rent,” he said.
“If people are buying a lot of iPods, for example, we do want
that to be reflected in the consumer price index basket.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 