-- 
GEA Orders Through May Rise on Acquisitions, International Sales

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-06-29T18:56:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/gea-orders-through-may-rise-on-acquisitions-international-sales.html
GEA Group AG (G1A) , whose machines milk a
third of the world’s dairy cows, said orders through May rose as
acquisitions brought in new customers and the manufacturer won
more sales contracts outside  Europe .  The increase was 26 percent compared to the year-earlier
period as all segments received higher orders, the Bochum,
Germany-based company said in a presentation to analysts.  The manufacturer, which supplies equipment to the food and
energy industries, completed the 435 million-euro takeover of
Convenience Food Systems NV in March, adding technology to
process fish, meat and cheese. Orders received this year include
contracts to supply condensers for power plants in Mexico and
 China , announced yesterday, and air coolers for a gas-processing
facility in Qatar, as well as construction of a milk-powder
plant in  New Zealand .  Chief Executive Officer Juerg Oleas is focusing on the  food
industry  as a more stable market than other manufacturers. GEA
also supplies equipment and components to makers of medicines,
cosmetics and chemicals.  GEA forecast on March 10 that, excluding contributions by
recent acquisitions such as CFS, Bock Kaeltemaschinen GmbH and
Mashimpeks Ltd., sales and new orders this year will rise by
“at least” 5 percent. Earnings before interest and taxes will
climb to about 9 percent of sales in 2011, from an Ebit margin
of 6.1 percent on 4.4 billion euros revenue last year, with
sales and earnings continuing to increase in 2012, it said.  The manufacturer is aiming for a margin of 12 percent
across economic cycles. GEA had 22,945 employees as of March 31.
The German company says its specialized equipment is used in
plants producing one-third of the world’s instant coffee and
half of its beer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf,  Germany , at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 