-- 
Geithner Says Delaying Debt Payments ‘Deeply Irresponsible’

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-06-29T20:58:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/geithner-says-prioritizing-debt-payments-deeply-irresponsible-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said delaying some government payments instead of
raising the $14.3 trillion federal debt limit would be “deeply
irresponsible” and reiterated that the ceiling “must be
increased to protect America’s creditworthiness.”  Failure to raise the limit “would have painful
implications for people in every walk of American life,”
Geithner said in a letter to Senator  Jim DeMint , a South
Carolina Republican. Geithner’s letter, dated yesterday and
released today by the Treasury Department, was in response to a
suggestion by DeMint last month that the U.S. could pay only
interest on the debt while delaying or stopping other payments.  “This ‘prioritization’ proposal advocates a radical and
deeply irresponsible departure from the commitment by presidents
of both parties, throughout American history, to honor all of
the commitments our nation has made,” Geithner said. In a
separate letter to another lawmaker today, Geithner cited a 2010
comment in which DeMint was quoted as comparing the debt limit
to a  credit-card  charge, saying, “You have to pay it.”  Republican lawmakers including Senator  Pat Toomey  of
Pennsylvania and Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota
have discounted the risk of a government default as they
encourage members of their party to withhold their votes for
increasing the debt ceiling unless spending-cut conditions are
met. The Treasury Department has said the U.S. risks defaulting
on its debts starting Aug. 2 unless Congress raises the limit.  ‘Unacceptably Risky’  DeMint’s proposal “is based on an untested and
unacceptably risky assumption: that if the United States were to
continue to pay interest on its debt -- yet failed to pay
legally required obligations to its citizens, servicemen and
women, and businesses -- there would be no adverse market
reaction and no damage to the full faith and credit of the
 United States ,” Geithner said. DeMint and 16 other Republican
senators made the suggestion in a letter last month to Geithner.  “You are also mistaken when you state that Treasury has
‘prioritized’ payments in the past,” Geithner wrote. “This is
false. Never has Treasury failed to meet any obligation as a
result of a debt-limit impasse, nor has Treasury ever
‘prioritized’ payments. Congress has never failed to raise the
debt limit when necessary.”  DeMint, in a response sent by e-mail today, said Geithner’s
“approach to dealing with the looming debt crisis is to take
his hands off the wheel and let the car careen over the cliff.”  Numerous Tools  “He has numerous tools at his disposal to avoid default,
but his refusal to explore all options and just play chicken
with the federal debt is deeply irresponsible,” DeMint’s
response said.  In another letter today, Geithner told Senator  Ron Johnson ,
a Wisconsin Republican, that failing to raise the limit “would
have the perverse effect of increasing the government’s
borrowing costs and worsening our fiscal challenges. Default, or
even the perception that default is likely, would increase rates
on Treasury securities, which would significantly increase the
cost of paying interest on the national debt.”  Geithner cited comments from lawmakers, including one from
DeMint last year: “You don’t have much choice if you charge
something on your credit card,” Geithner quoted DeMint as
saying. “You have to pay it, and that’s effectively what this
debt limit is.”  Separately, the  International Monetary Fund  said today that
global markets will suffer if Congress fails to raise the debt
ceiling.  Debt Ceiling  “The federal debt ceiling should be raised expeditiously
to avoid a severe shock to the economy and world financial
markets,” the IMF said in a report on the  U.S. economy . The
report said a failure to reach a budget and debt compromise
could result in a “sudden increase in  interest rates  and/or a
sovereign downgrade.”  Standard & Poor’s  in April put the U.S. government on
notice that it risks losing its top  credit rating  unless policy
makers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits and the
national debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  