-- 
Ackermann Says Banks to Help on Greek Rescue to Avoid ‘Meltdown’

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-06-29T15:47:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/german-banks-finance-ministry-said-to-seek-agreement-on-greece.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  said he expects financial companies will
contribute to a Greek rescue to avoid a “meltdown,” as banking
and government officials sought agreement on a debt rollover.  “If Greece goes into default, then we would have a
disruption in  Europe  that could more quickly impact other
countries in a way that goes far beyond what  Lehman Brothers 
meant for us,” Ackermann said at a conference in Berlin today.
Speaking to  Chancellor Angela Merkel , he said “we’ll offer our
hand in a solution, but not because we’re doing it gladly, but
actually to enable policymakers to do something so that we --
I’ll say it frankly -- so that we don’t have a meltdown.”  Commerzbank CEO  Martin Blessing , speaking at the same
conference, said German financial institutions have reached a
draft agreement on participation in a Greek rescue, adding that
there are still “a few hitches.” The Frankfurt-based lender is
willing to contribute to a Greek aid package to win time for the
country, help it grow and stay competitive and to prevent a
“chain-reaction,” he said.  The remarks by the CEOs of Germany’s two biggest banks
coincided with Greece’s parliament approving the first part of
an austerity plan aimed at meeting European Union aid
requirements and staving off default for the debt-laden nation.
German and French lenders are the biggest foreign holders of
Greek debt and their participation is key to the EU goal of
getting banks to roll over at least 30 billion euros ($43
billion) of bonds.  Talks in Berlin  German banking and insurance representatives and government
finance officials, working off a French proposal, held talks in
Berlin today to discuss their  Greece  holdings and how much debt
they’re willing to roll over, two people familiar with the
matter said earlier today. They discussed potential sticking
points including the maturity of the Greek bonds, whether
investors would face writedowns on their current holdings, and
how rating companies would view a rollover, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private.  Ackermann, who is also chairman of the  Institute of
International Finance , which represents more than 400 financial
companies, said they are “working around the clock” with special
teams, rating agencies and bodies overseeing credit-default
swaps to test whether any agreement would trigger a  credit
event . He warned that any agreement is “highly complex” and
could forcing investors to write down their Greek holdings by an
estimated 30 percent to 45 percent if done incorrectly.  Schaeuble Meeting  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  will hold talks
with the heads of German banks and insurers tomorrow, his
deputy, Joerg Asmussen, said yesterday. The meetings are part of
Europe-wide efforts to get creditors to share the cost of a
second Greek bailout and prevent the euro-region’s first
default, a year after a 110 billion-euro package failed to
resolve the debt crisis. Schaeuble sees a French proposal to
roll over Greek debt as a “good basis” for talks, Asmussen
said yesterday.  Under the French plan, private investors would receive new
Greek 30-year bonds worth 70 percent of their original holdings,
with the remaining 30 percent paid in cash on maturity. Greece
would use 50 percent of the original amount to pay down its
debt, with 20 percent invested in zero-coupon bonds through a
special purpose vehicle that will be used as collateral to
insure the banks get repaid.  Second Option  Banks that roll over their debt under the French plan would
receive 30-year bonds with a coupon of about 5.5 percent, which
could be increased by as much as 2.5 percentage points based on
the pace of Greek economic growth, the people said. The SPV will
invest in AAA-rated securities that will be held as collateral
to protect the banks against a Greek default.  In a second option, investors would reinvest at least 90
percent of their redemptions into five-year Greek government
debt with a coupon of 5.5 percent, according to the proposal.  The plan depends upon credit-rating firms not cutting their
grade on Greece and existing or newly issued government
securities to default, according to the draft. A Paris-based
spokeswoman at the French Banking Federation declined to comment
on the three-page report when contacted by Bloomberg.  The French plan to roll over Greek sovereign debt has the
backing of most of  France ’s banks and insurers, and it’s now up
to investors in  Germany  and elsewhere in Europe to agree to a
strategy, according to two people familiar with the matter.  European banks hold 17.2 billion euros of Greek bonds
maturing by the end of 2013, Citigroup Inc. estimated in a June
23 report. Greek banks hold almost 22 billion euros of bonds
coming due in that period, and the country’s central bank owned
5.1 billion euros of debt likely eligible for the rollover,
Citigroup estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  