-- 
Greek Government Bonds Climb After Austerity Measures Pass; Bunds Decline

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-06-29T16:07:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/german-bunds-decline-for-third-day-amid-greece-optimism-before-debt-sale.html
Greek bonds jumped, leading gains in
the securities of the euro-region’s most-indebted nations, after
the government passed the first part of an austerity plan aimed
at winning more international aid and forestalling default.  Spanish, Italian, Portuguese and Irish bonds climbed after
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  moved a step closer to
passing a 78 billion-euro ($112 billion) package of budget cuts
and asset sales that is the condition for further rescue funds.
German bunds dropped, led by five-year notes after demand
slumped at an auction of the securities.  “The government has won the vote fairly comfortably,”
said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital
Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “It looks increasingly likely that
Greece will get the funding it needs, which pushes back the day
of reckoning and that’s prompted a relief rally in peripheral
markets and an unwinding of flight-to-quality in bunds.”  Greek two-year note yields sank 123 basis points to 27.32
percent as of 4:36 p.m. in London. The 4.6 percent security due
May 2013 soared 1.32, or 13.20 euros per 1,000-euro face amount,
to 69.63. The 10-year yield slid 17 basis points to 16.29
percent, driving the difference in yield with 10-year bunds 22
basis points lower to 1,330 basis points, or 13.30 percentage
points.  Stocks rose for a third day, with the Stoxx Europe 600
Index climbing 1.7 percent, while the euro strengthened against
the Swiss franc and the dollar.  Three-Year Recession  Papandreou has fought his legislative battle in tandem with
a drive by European officials to convince lenders to participate
in a Greek rescue.  Greece  needs to cover 6.6 billion euros of
maturing bonds in August and government officials have said they
may lack the money to pay wages and pensions by mid-July.  Implementing more austerity measures threatens to deepen a
three-year Greek recession and complicate efforts to boost
government revenue. Gross domestic product, which contracted 4.4
percent in 2010, will shrink a further 3.8 percent this year,
according to a report from EU and IMF inspectors in June. The
nation’s debt load will peak at 166 percent of GDP next year,
and is already the biggest in the euro-region’s history.  Spanish 10-year bond yields dropped six basis points to
5.57 percent, with two-year yields also sliding six basis
points, to 3.59 percent. Yields on 10-year Italian debt slipped
four basis points to 4.95 percent, paring five days of gains.  Spreads Narrow  Spain ’s 10-year bonds yielded 258 basis points more than
similar-maturity bunds, the least since June 22. The spread has
narrowed from 293 basis points on June 27, the most since
November. The Italian spread over German bunds was at 196 basis
points, down from a euro-era record 223 basis points on June 27.  Spreads have widened amid deepening concern that the crisis
that led Greece, followed by Ireland and Portugal, to seek
international bailouts would spread, threatening the region’s
economic recovery.  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area fell to 105.1 from 105.5 in May, the European
Commission in Brussels said today. That’s the lowest since
October. Economists had forecast a decline to 105, the median of
27 estimates in a Bloomberg survey showed.  German banks and insurers are meeting the  finance ministry 
in Berlin today to discuss rolling fixed-income investments into
fresh Greek debt.  Fitch Ratings  said it will “very likely”
deem Greece in default if the European Union goes ahead with a
plan to get private investors to roll over their Greek bonds.  ‘Defining Moment’  “The defining moment will be when the European Union
announces both the size of the Greek assistance package and the
terms and conditions,” said  Mark Grant , managing director at
Southwest Securities Inc. in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida . “The
 ratings agencies , if they are to be believed, will view the
‘roll over’ as a default and then, if that happens, all hell
will break loose.”  The yield on German five-year notes rose by the most in
more than three months as demand fell at an offering of 2.75
percent securities maturing in April 2016. The debt agency sold
4.825 billion euros of the notes, with investors bidding for 1.1
times the number of securities on offer, down from a so-called
bid-to-cover ratio of 1.85 at the last sale of the bonds in May.
The average yield was 2.16 percent, down from 2.45 percent.  “It was a pretty poor auction,” said  Peter Schaffrik ,
head of European fixed-income strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in
 London . “The bid-to-cover was pretty low and the price wasn’t
very high.”  Bunds at 3%  Ten-year bund yields rose five basis points to 2.98
percent, after increasing above 3 percent for the first time in
a week. Yields on two-year notes climbed nine basis points to
1.55 percent, while those on five-year securities climbed as
much as 12 basis points to 2.25 percent, the most since March 3.  “Nothing is solved here but it makes sense to see a bit of
a reversal” in risk appetite, said  Padhraic Garvey , head of
developed-market debt at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “We also
have this rollover plan, which is gaining momentum.”  Policy makers are in “strong vigilance mode,” European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday,
signaling they intend to raise  interest rates  next week to tame
inflation that’s been in breach of the central bank’s 2 percent
limit since December.  Expectations of higher rates may have contributed to lower
demand at  Germany ’s auction today, while some investors judged
yields to be too low, according to  Peter Chatwell , a strategist
at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London.  Portuguese Bonds Climb  “The five-year part of the curve was a bit rich if you
think this is as high as the market’s going to go,” London-
based Chatwell said. “Today’s not a good day for German paper.
It’s the periphery that’s performing better.”  Greece’s 10-year yield has jumped more than 3.5 percentage
points this quarter as euro-region policy makers struggled to
contain the debt crisis.  Portuguese 10-year government yields dropped 42 basis
points to 11.08 percent. The two-year yield also decreased for a
second day, falling 68 basis points to 13.27 percent. Ireland’s
10-year yields fell 9 basis points to 11.76 percent.  Ten-year bonds from Greece, Ireland,  Portugal  and Spain
rose yesterday amid speculation a euro-region default will be
avoided, and as Portugal’s new government presented its
austerity package, which aims to trim the region’s fourth-
biggest budget deficit.  German  government bonds  handed investors a gain of 0.5
percent this year, compared with 2.9 percent for U.S. Treasuries
and 2.4 percent for U.K. gilts, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Spanish debt has returned 1.6 percent, while Italy’s
has gained 0.9 percent. Greek bonds lost 18 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 