-- 
Ghosn’s Nissan Unleashed to Become Japan’s Most Profitable Automaker: Cars

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-06-29T01:42:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/ghosn-s-nissan-unleashed-to-become-japan-s-most-profitable-automaker-cars.html
Carlos Ghosn , poised to make Nissan
Motor Co. into Japan’s most profitable automaker for the first
time since at least 1992, is returning to the type of bold
pronouncement he was known for a decade ago.  “Nissan is unleashed,” Ghosn, 57, told reporters
yesterday at company headquarters in Yokohama. “This is the
first time we are launching a plan with no handicap. We are
fully on the offensive.”  The chief executive officer, anticipating higher global
production, had Nissan stocking electrical components before the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami. That positioned it to recover
faster than  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  or Honda Motor Co. In  North
America , Japan’s second-biggest carmaker lost a week of output
while the other two have yet to resume full production.  Nissan now targets operating income of 460 billion yen
($5.7 billion) in the year ending March 2012, while Toyota
expects 300 billion yen and Honda estimates 200 billion yen.
That would be the first time Nissan beat its two biggest
competitors, according to Bloomberg data dating to 1992.  Ghosn this week announced a six-year mid-term plan aiming
for 8 percent global market share and 8 percent operating margin.
His enthusiasm recalls the days shortly after he was brought
from biggest shareholder  Renault SA (RNO)  to lead Nissan. In May 2000,
just after Nissan’s biggest annual loss, Ghosn told Bloomberg
News he would lead a return to profit by March 2001: “I am not
optimistic. I am confident.” He met his goal.  The CEO has earned the right to brag, said  Jesse Toprak ,
vice president of industry trends at TrueCar.com in  Santa Monica ,
 California . “A little arrogance is good if it can be
substantiated, and right now Nissan has confidence in the
future,” Toprak said. “The math favors them this year.”  Profit Still to Fall  Nissan still faces challenges. While Ghosn is more bullish
about Nissan’s outlook for the current fiscal year than Toyota 
and Honda, his operating income goal is still below the 537 
billion yen posted in the year ended March 2011. Also, Toyota 
now expects full production of most models to resume by 
September, two months earlier than it first estimated, and is 
readying a new Camry sedan and Prius wagon late in the year to
aid sagging U.S. sales.  Nissan estimates its global vehicle sales will rise 10
percent in the 12 months started April 1, compared with a 6
percent decline forecast by Honda and 0.9 percent drop at Toyota.
Nissan’s U.S. sales in May fell 9.1 percent, compared with a 33
percent plunge at Toyota.  “Nissan has completely different momentum on sales,” said
 Koji Endo , an auto analyst at Advanced Research Japan in Tokyo.  Semiconductors  Nissan had secured a greater supply of semiconductors
before the quake than its Japanese rivals, preparing to increase
production in anticipation of growing global demand, according
to analysts at IHS Automotive and Advanced Research Japan.  Damage to chipmaker Renesas Electronics Corp.’s plant in
Ibaraki prefecture was a major cause of output disruptions for
automakers in Japan.  “We were envisioning a very steep ramp-up in production in
2011,” Ghosn said. “We found ourselves with a larger inventory
than some of our competitors.”  Honda was particularly hard-hit by the semiconductor
shortage because it had ordered a new type of chip for its
updated Civic, which went on sale in the U.S. in late April.  “There was a timing issue with our order,” Honda Chief
Financial Officer Fumihiko Ike said yesterday.  Investors have noticed. Nissan has gained 1.1 percent in
 Tokyo  trading since March 10, the day before the quake, compared
with a 12 percent drop for Toyota and an 11 percent decline for
Honda as of yesterday’s close. Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average has lost 7.5 percent in the same period.  Hiring Plans  In the three months ending June 30, Nissan’s global sales
will exceed the year-earlier level, Corporate Vice President
Joji Tagawa said June 23. The company started hiring 200
temporary workers this month to help ramp up output. Toyota and
Honda will begin adding workers in mid-July.  Investors should be mindful that Nissan’s method of
accounting in China inflates the company’s operating profit,
Endo said.  In  China , Nissan’s profit from its 50-50 joint venture with
Dongfeng Motor Group Co. is reflected in operating income
through a method known as “proportional consolidation,” in
contrast to the equity method, which reflects the venture’s
profit at the net income level.  Toyota and Honda use the equity method under U.S. Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles, unlike Nissan, which reports
under Japanese accounting rules.  Six-Year Plan  Nissan’s six-year mid-term plan announced earlier this week
included a target to more than triple sales of Infiniti luxury
models to 500,000 vehicles, or about 10 percent of the global
luxury-car market. Nissan plans to add Infiniti production in
the U.S. or China, Ghosn said in an interview.  The company will benefit from cooperation with Daimler AG,
which plans to share its platform with Infiniti, said Masatoshi Nishimoto, an analyst at IHS Automotive.  Nissan is also introducing compact cars based on its “V-
Platform” in markets including  India , China,  Brazil ,  Thailand 
and  Mexico . “That is the most important platform for emerging
markets for us,” Ghosn told reporters yesterday.  With these compact cars and growth in luxury models,
“Nissan has very well-balanced growth ahead,” Nishimoto said.  Nissan is also benefiting from a higher percentage of
overseas production, which softened the impact of output
disruptions in  Japan , said Edwin Merner, president of Atlantis
Investment Co. in Tokyo.  The carmaker began producing the March compact in Thailand
last year, helping limit its drop in Japan sales to 16 percent
in May, compared with a 57 percent plunge at Toyota and a 35
percent decline at Honda.  Materials Costs  Nissan’s profit forecast beats its rivals even with the
most conservative forecast on materials prices among the top
carmakers, thanks to a strong production growth plan, said Kurt Sanger, an auto analyst at Deutsche Securities Inc. in Tokyo.  “Nissan will meet those estimates; they may even beat
them,” Atlantis’s Merner said. “A lot depends on the yen and
the world economy.”  The yen advanced 15 percent against the  U.S. dollar  last
year and reached a postwar record of 76.25 on March 17, eroding
Japanese carmakers’ repatriated earnings from overseas sales.
Nissan is basing this year’s profit forecast on an exchange rate
of 80 yen to the dollar and 115 yen to the euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Yukiko Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  