-- 
Ghosn Gets 982 Million Yen as Nissan Posts Record Share

-- B y   K a e   I n o u e   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 
2011-06-29T16:28:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/ghosn-gets-982-million-yen-as-nissan-posts-record-share-1-.html
Nissan Motor Co. Chief Executive
Officer  Carlos Ghosn  received 982 million yen or $11.46 million
in total compensation last fiscal year, including salary and
 stock options , as the Japanese carmaker captured a record market
share.  Ghosn, 57, who got a 10 percent increase in the year ended
March, announced his compensation at Nissan’s annual shareholder
meeting today. He is the highest-paid leader among Japanese
companies that have disclosed executive compensation, according
to Bloomberg data. He was followed by  Sony Corp. (6758)  Chairman  Howard
Stringer , who made about 863 million yen in salary, bonus and
stock options, the electronics maker said yesterday.  Ghosn’s pay is lower than the average for global automotive
companies, estimated at about $15.3 million by  Towers Watson &
Co. (TW) , a U.S. benefits consultant.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  CEO Alan Mulally
earned the most in the industry with about $26.5 million in
2010. Publicly traded Japanese companies are required by
financial regulations to disclose compensation for executives
who earn more than 100 million yen.  “Western companies see the need to provide higher
incentives to top management than Japanese companies do,” said
Takeshi Miyao, an analyst at consulting company Carnorama in
Tokyo. “They understand that well-performing management leads
to good earnings results and they maintain adequate pay to make
sure top managers don’t leave for another company.”  Nissan shares rose 2.7 percent to 847 yen at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo, the highest since March 4.  Toyota, Honda  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  President  Akio Toyoda  was paid 136
million yen in the year ended March 31, including a 24 million
yen bonus, according to a filing to Japan’s finance ministry
last week. Honda Motor Co. President Takanobu Ito earned 130
million yen in the same period.  Toyoda’s pay wasn’t listed a year earlier, indicating he
earned less than 100 million yen at the time. Ghosn was paid 891
million yen in the year earlier period.  Nissan’s senior vice president of marketing and sales in
 Europe , Simon Thomas, left this month to take a job at
Volkswagen AG, Ghosn said in an interview.  “Nissan is obviously targeted not just by Japanese
companies, but foreign companies going after talent,” Ghosn
said.  For his role as CEO of Nissan’s alliance partner Renault
SA, the executive was paid 1.2 million euros ($1.7 million) in
2010 after dropping claims to his bonus following a mishandled
spying investigation.  Record Share  Nissan,  Japan ’s second-largest automaker, boosted global
vehicle sales 19 percent to 4.185 million in the year ended
March 31 as China sales surged 36 percent and North American
deliveries gained 17 percent. The carmaker’s global market share
rose 0.3 percentage points to a record 5.8 percent.  Japanese automakers are recovering from the nation’s record
earthquake on March 11, which disrupted auto production. Nissan
expects to resume full output worldwide by October, the fastest
recovery among the nation’s largest automakers.  Nissan said this month it would pay its top 14 executives
and auditors an average of 126 million yen for the year ended
March 31. Average pay for nine executives excluding corporate
auditors rose 32 percent to 186.4 million yen, more than twice
the levels at Toyota and Honda.  Nissan posted net income of 31 billion yen for the three
months ended March as global vehicle sales rose 16 percent to
1.2 million. In the same period, Toyota’s profit fell to the
lowest in 18 months to 25 billion yen as sales declined 12
percent.  ‘So Diverse’  Non-Japanese officials account for 44 percent, or 43 of the
top 97 positions at Nissan, and four out of nine, or 44 percent,
of its executive committee members, according to the automaker.
The top 97 positions include Brazilian, Portuguese, British,
French, Dutch, American, Indian, German, Italian, Spanish,
Canadian and South African executives, Nissan said.  “There are no other automakers in the world that have this
kind of diversity,” Ghosn said. “Because our executive team is
so diverse, for compensation, we benchmark some of the similarly
diversified companies, and the reason is simple: we compete
against these companies for the same pool of multicultural,
highly educated and highly mobile talent.”  Ghosn’s total compensation was 0.3 percent of Nissan’s net
income for the year ended March 31, compared with an average of
1.4 percent for CEOs at S&P 500 companies, according to Equilar
Inc., a  Redwood City , California-based executive-pay researcher.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kae Inoue in  Tokyo  at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  