-- 
Dealmaking Hits Bump as Market Slump Overshadows Cash Pile

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 
2011-06-29T20:32:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/global-dealmaking-hits-june-bump-as-economic-slump-overshadows-cash-piles.html
Concerns about a declining global
stock market and slowing economic growth are taking a toll on
dealmaking, with takeovers in June tumbling to the lowest level
in eight months.  The total value of takeovers announced so far this month
fell 22 percent from May to about $178 billion, leaving second-
quarter volume little changed from the previous three months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At least two banks went
for a week or more without a new mandate starting at the end of
May, said senior advisers who declined to be identified.
Business has been sluggish since then, they said.  The global recovery that spurred companies to pursue
takeovers earlier in the quarter stumbled in June with Greece
seeking to avoid a default and the U.S. Federal Reserve lowering
growth forecasts. That has led to a dip in stock markets
worldwide and may be temporarily overshadowing companies’ plans
to expand their businesses and spend stockpiled cash.  “The market has taken a bit of a breather,” said Jack MacDonald, co-head of Americas M&A at Bank of America Corp. in
 Palo Alto ,  California . “Given economic headwinds and market
volatility, CEOs seem to be taking a brief pause before pulling
the trigger on transformational transactions.”  Fewer Purchases  U.S. central bankers said the economy will expand as much
as 2.9 percent this year, down from a maximum forecast of 3.3
percent in April. Gross domestic product slowed to 1.9 percent
in the first quarter from 3.1 percent in the previous period,
according to Commerce Department figures released June 24.  Out of the 20 largest acquisitions in the second quarter,
four were announced in June, the data show. Capital One
Financial Corp. agreed to purchase online bank ING Direct USA
for $9.1 billion on June 16, and gas distributor  Southern Union
Co. (SUG)  received competing takeover bids of more than $4 billion
from Williams Cos. and Energy Transfer Equity LP this month.
Carrefour SA said yesterday it’s considering a proposal to merge
its Brazilian assets with a local retailer.  Other deals were scuttled during the period.  Smithfield
Foods Inc. (SFD)  this month halted a $700 million purchase of a 50
percent stake in  Spain ’s Campofrio Food Group SA, citing
weakness in Europe and in Smithfield’s own share price. The
stock has dropped more than 7 percent in the past two months.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index has declined similarly after the
benchmark hit an almost three-year high in May. The index
climbed 1.5 percent to 1,315.38 at 4:30 p.m.  New York  time.  Deals Derailed  At the same time, corporate debt sales are falling
globally, while yields relative to  government bonds  widen,
partly on investor concern that  Greece  won’t be able to meet
debt obligations. High-yield loans used to finance buyouts are
headed for their first monthly loss of the year, led by Europe,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG’s Leveraged Loan Index.  “Macro factors, which have caused volatility in the stock
markets and the recent pullback in leveraged finance, can derail
certain deals,” said Ehren Stenzler, co-head of U.S. M&A at UBS
AG in New York. “We tend to think it is temporary, but those
factors could cause companies to push the pause button for a bit
on certain deals.”  Retailer  Big Lots Inc. (BIG)  abandoned plans for a sale in May
after bids from leveraged buyout firms came in lower than
anticipated, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  In an auction for  Gen-Probe Inc. (GPRO) , a maker of disease-
testing diagnostics, bidders Life Technologies Corp. and Thermo
Fisher Scientific Inc. dropped out of the process when the
asking price neared $80 a share, another person said.  Novartis
AG (NOVN)  may still be interested, the person said. Shares of San
Diego-based Gen-Probe have since fallen to $68.41.  Price Concern  Henkel AG Chief Executive Officer Kasper Rorsted said in an
interview this week that deal price has been a roadblock for
companies looking to make acquisitions, rather than the broader
macroeconomic environment. He said he sees attractive assets in
the U.S. and Europe.  Executives are getting more accustomed to the ups and downs
of the market, according to Henrik Aslaksen, global head of M&A
at Deutsche Bank AG in  London .  “Volatility in today’s world does not stop a healthy
company making important strategic decisions and acting on
them,” Aslaksen said. “The cost of capital remains relatively
low on a historic basis, and corporates have strong balance
sheets.”  ‘Still Rallying’  The top 1,000 non-financial companies are still sitting on
more than $3.4 trillion in cash, and shareholders are rewarding
strategic acquisitions by pushing up acquirers’ stock prices,
Bloomberg data show. Apparel maker VF Corp. surged 10 percent on
June 13 when it announced a deal to buy Timberland Co. for about
$1.8 billion.  As global stock markets gained in April, Johnson & Johnson
agreed to pay $21.3 billion for medical device maker Synthes
Inc. and  Exelon Corp. (EXC) , the largest operator of U.S. nuclear
power plants, said it would buy  Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG) 
for about $7.9 billion in stock.  “Investors are still rallying around a deal that looks to
grow the top line,” said Michael Boublik, chairman of M&A,
Americas at Morgan Stanley.  The market for takeovers in  North America  held up better
than other regions in June, with announced deals rising 14
percent from May to more than $82 billion. The dollar volume of
transactions fell by more than 60 percent in Western Europe and
more than 40 percent in Asia Pacific in that same period.  “We still see much greater confidence in the U.S., and we
are having many more conversations with U.S. buyers of European
companies,” said Giuseppe Monarchi, head of  Europe ,  Middle East 
and  Africa  M&A for Credit Suisse Group AG. “But there is less
visibility on large transactions than we had several weeks ago,
partly because of Greece.”  Active Buyers  Hernan Cristerna, head of M&A for Europe, Middle East and
Africa, at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London, also said that U.S.
acquirers have been active in Europe, while European companies
are targeting growth in emerging markets.  “Companies are not just looking for cost synergies, but
real growth,” he said.  Worldwide, announced deals in the second quarter rose to
almost $620 billion, or less than 1 percent from the first three
months of the year, according to data through June 28.  Year to date, JPMorgan is leading financial advisers in
global M&A transactions at $269.2 billion in deal volume, just
ahead of Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., according
to Bloomberg data. Rounding out the top five are Credit Suisse
and Citigroup Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  