-- 
Goldman Sachs Informs New York State of Plan to Cut 230 Jobs, Filing Shows

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-06-29T22:11:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/goldman-sachs-informs-new-york-state-of-plan-to-cut-230-jobs-filing-shows.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, plans to cut 230 jobs in  New York ,
according to a  filing  the firm submitted to the state’s
Department of Labor.  The positions, which weren’t identified, will be eliminated
for economic reasons between Sept. 26 and March 31, today’s
filing shows.  David Wells , a spokesman for the company in New
York, declined to comment.  Wall Street firms including Barclays Capital and Credit
Suisse Group AG have begun cutting staff as they grapple with
reduced revenue from trading stocks and bonds. In the past four
weeks, 10 analysts have lowered second-quarter profit estimates
for Goldman Sachs. The company is scheduled to report results on
July 19.  Goldman Sachs employed 35,400 people globally at the end of
March, 300 fewer than at the end of December. While the firm’s
headquarters and biggest office are in downtown  Manhattan ,
Goldman Sachs doesn’t disclose how many workers are based in New
York.  The bank is doing most of its hiring in China, India and
Brazil, President and Chief Operating Officer Gary D. Cohn told
investors on June 2. He said that the company has hired “a lot
of people” in Singapore and in Bangalore, India.  The New York State Workers Adjustment and Retraining
Notification Act, known as the  WARN Act , became effective on
Feb. 1, 2009. The law requires private employers with 50 or more
workers in New York state to provide 90 days’ notice of a plant
closing, mass layoff, relocation, or reduction in work hours.  In a separate  filing  yesterday,  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. (BK)  notified the labor department of plans to start cutting
124 jobs in its treasury services operations lockbox. The cuts
will take place in stages beginning July 1 and continue through
March 31, the filing said.  The Goldman Sachs filing was reported earlier today by Dow
Jones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 