-- 
U.K. Stocks Rise for Fifth Day; BG Group, Lloyds, LSE Advance

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-06-30T15:53:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/green-king-lse-northgate-vodafone-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks climbed for a fifth day
as a vote by Greek lawmakers boosted speculation that the nation
will avoid a default on its debt and U.S. business activity
unexpectedly expanded.  BG Group Plc (BG/)  soared 4.9 percent after doubling the estimate
of its reserves and resources in the Santos Basin in Brazil.
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  rallied 9.7 percent after saying it
will cut jobs to reduce costs.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) 
jumped the most in more than two years amid speculation it will
become a bid target after scrapping a planned merger with
Canada’s TMX Group Inc.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  gained 89.76, or 1.5 percent,
to 5,945.71 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London for the biggest
two-day rally this year. The FTSE All-Share rose 1.5 percent
today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index advanced 0.6 percent.  “The party shows no sign of abating for equity markets,”
Ben Critchley, a sales trader at IG index in  London , wrote in an
e-mail. “Better-than-expected Chicago PMI data and the
successful passage of the second Greek austerity vote propelled
major indices ever higher.”  The FTSE 100 has rallied 4.8 percent in the past five days
as concern eased that  Greece  will default on its debt. The
advance trims losses this month to 0.7 percent and brings its
quarterly gain to 0.6 percent. The measure has increased 0.8
percent in 2011.  Greek Vote  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s drive to stave off
the euro area’s first sovereign default stayed on track after
lawmakers backed a bill to authorize an austerity plan required
to keep rescue aid flowing.  Papandreou won the vote by 155 to 136, allowing him to
implement a 78 billion-euro ($112 billion) package of tax
increases and asset sales that was a condition of receiving
further European Union aid. Those steps were approved in a vote
yesterday which was marred by street violence as police fired
tear gas on crowds.  In the U.S., the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago
Inc. said its business barometer unexpectedly rose to 61.1 in
June from 56.6 a month earlier. Economists projected the gauge
would drop to 54, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey. Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  Consumer confidence  rose to the highest level in 10 weeks
as falling gasoline prices provided relief to Americans
contending with 9.1 percent joblessness. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index increased to minus 43.9 for the period ended June
26 after dropping to minus 44.9 the prior week.  ‘Optimistic Outlook’  “We remain constructive on global equity markets,”  Robert Buckland , the head of global equity strategy at Citigroup Inc.,
wrote in a report. “The optimistic outlook is based on
reasonable valuations, low  interest rates  and positive earnings
trends.”  BG Group rallied 4.7 percent to 1,414 pence, the biggest
gain in five months, as the U.K.’s third-largest oil and gas
producer doubled its estimate of reserves and resources in the
Santos Basin in  Brazil  to about 6 billion barrels of oil.  Lloyds surged 9.7 percent to 49 pence, paring its quarterly
slump to 16 percent. The U.K.’s largest mortgage lender said it
will cut 15,000 jobs and reduce costs by an additional 1.5
billion pounds ($2.4 billion) as it withdraws from overseas
units and increases its U.K. focus.  LSE jumped 11 percent to 1,061 pence, the biggest increase
since March 2009, after the London and Toronto exchanges said
they won’t proceed with their friendly C$3.29 billion ($3.4
billion) merger because they didn’t get the required two-thirds
of votes cast by proxy before today’s shareholder meeting.  Exchange Takeovers  The rejection has left LSE without a partner amid the
biggest wave of exchange takeovers ever, according to Bloomberg
data. Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., the second-largest U.S. exchange
company, failed three times to buy LSE in the past decade.  Berendsen Plc gained 7.8 percent to 545 pence after the
supplier of textile-cleaning services forecast that first-half
pretax profit will be “significantly ahead” of the same period
a year earlier.  Flybe Group Plc (FLYB)  rallied 9.5 percent to 184 pence after
saying it has held “active discussions” about partnerships
with several flag carriers in mainland  Europe .  Greene King Plc (GNK)  sank 5.9 percent to 487.4 pence, retreating
after a four-day rally. The U.K. pub owner forecast “another
challenging year as continued high inflation and the impact of
government cutbacks limit consumer spending power.”  Premier Foods Plc (PFD)  slumped 22 percent to 19.02 pence, the
largest drop since 2008. The U.K.’s biggest food manufacturer
said it expects profit for ongoing business in the first half of
between 65 million pounds and 70 million pounds, compared with
94 million pounds in the equivalent period in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  