-- 
Greek Debt Buyback Has ‘Growing Interest’ at Banks, IIF Says

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-06-29T15:40:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/greek-debt-buyback-has-growing-interest-at-banks-iif-says-1-.html
International banks considering
participation in the bailout of  Greece  by rolling over their
bonds are showing “growing interest” in a possible debt
buyback, said  Charles Dallara , managing director of the
 Institute of International Finance .  Techniques that “re-profile maturity over a long period of
time” should be combined with “other techniques which can wear
down the stock of debt in the near-term, and buybacks are a real
option here,” Dallara, whose organization represents more than
400 global banks and insurers, said at a meeting with three
reporters in Istanbul today.  European Union leaders, who rejected buybacks earlier this
year, have called on private investors to shoulder some of the
cost of a new bailout package for Greece, a year after the 110
billion-euro ($158 billion) rescue that failed to stop the
spread of the region’s debt crisis. Under a plan by the French
banking association, investors holding Greek bonds maturing by
mid-2014 would be asked to roll over 70 percent of their
holdings into new 30-year debt.  The private financial community is more likely to sign onto
a structure melding the rollover plan currently being discussed
with methods to reduce upfront risk, possibly through buying
back and retiring Greek bonds, he said. The amount of buybacks
would have to be “significant enough to affect the thinking of
market analysts,” he said, declining to give further details.  Debt Reduction  “What is of interest to a lot of those in the private
financial community is a more comprehensive approach that blends
an option along these lines with buybacks or some other
meaningful technique for reducing debt upfront,” he said.  The French proposal’s requirement that  ratings agencies 
offer “informal clearance” that they won’t downgrade Greece to
default is not realistic, he said. “Rating agencies should not
be, in my view, integral to the shaping of options.”  The fundamentals of the Greek economy, which suffers from
“enormous structural distortions and efficiencies,” will be
strengthened during the restructuring process and the potential
for Greek growth could be considerable, Dallara said. He drew a
comparison with  China , where he said double-digit growth rates
have been based partly on improving economic inefficiencies.  Growth Potential  “With an unleashing of some greater potential in terms of
competitiveness and focus on hammering out those structural
restraints that inhibit the movement of capital, investment and
employment, creating a credible tax system there, this country
has considerable upside,” he said of Greece.  The necessity for sustained adjustment to the  Greek economy 
and the multitude of players involved are obstacles to reaching
a solution, “but I don’t see any of these as being
insurmountable by any means,” he said.  “If everyone undergoes some pain and everyone contributes
to the solution, a way forward can be found,” he said. “There
are reasons to believe that this is going to turn positive in
the hours ahead and then the challenge will be back on the plate
of the global community to step forward in support of Greece.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  