-- 
Groupon Cedes Share of Online Daily Deals to LivingSocial, Yipit Reports

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-06-29T15:30:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/groupon-cedes-a-share-of-online-daily-deals-to-livingsocial-yipit-says.html
Groupon Inc.’s share of online daily
deals slipped to 48 percent in May from 52 percent the previous
month, as rivals including LivingSocial.com closed in on its
lead in the growing market for discounts offered on the Web.  LivingSocial claimed 24 percent of the market, up from 20
percent in April, according to website Yipit Inc., which studied
online daily deals in 30 major North American cities. Yipit’s
researchers estimate Chicago-based Groupon made $64.7 million in
sales in May, more than double Washington-based LivingSocial’s
$31.6 million.  Online daily deals, a business pioneered by Groupon in
2009, are now delivered by 345 sites and account for about $133
million in revenue in top North American markets, according to
Yipit. Groupon’s lead is narrowing as it prepares for a $750
million IPO.  “The main reason you’re seeing Groupon’s market share fall
is that competition is still on the upswing,” said David Sinsky, data product manager for New York-based Yipit. “Groupon
pioneered a brand new space a year and a half ago, and because
of their success they have attracted a lot of competition.”  Groupon and LivingSocial deliver daily discounts on hotels,
restaurants and other goods and services to subscribers on the
Web. Closely competing to be third-largest daily deal provider
are  Travelzoo Inc. (TZOO) , BuyWithMe.com and Gilt City, a site owned by
Gilt Groupe Inc.  30 Cities  Yipit , a site that aggregates deals from over 400 sites,
tracked 17,958 discounts offered in May across 30 North American
cities including Atlanta, Denver, Miami,  New York  and Toronto.
Its revenue estimates take into account some sites that Yipit
doesn’t currently track and says make up about 15 percent of the
market. Yipit’s research did not include Groupon Now or
LivingSocial Instant, services those companies recently began
offering for real-time deals throughout the day.  Both Groupon and LivingSocial are making less money per
deal than they did before, as the increasing number of deals
offered on the Web has caused fewer people to sign up for each
one, says Sinsky.  “Groupon’s revenue is increasing, but Groupon’s revenue
per deal is actually decreasing because they’re putting so many
deals a day in front of consumers,” said Sinsky.  In May, Groupon increased the number of its deals by 18
percent over the previous month to 4,534 as its average revenue
per deal declined 10 percent to $14,277. In the same period,
LivingSocial increased the number of its deals by 59 percent to
1,932 as its average revenue per deal declined 17 percent to
$16,360.  The total number of deals offered in the top markets
tracked by Yipit grew 24 percent in May, to 17,958.  No Profit Yet  Groupon said in June it hasn’t yet turned a profit, even as
sales surged 14-fold to $644.7 million last quarter, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company had marketing costs
of $208.2 million in the period, resulting in a net operating
loss of $117 million. Groupon spent $179.9 million on subscriber
acquisitions, as it tries to build its lead over LivingSocial.  This year, 273 new daily deal sites were started and 112
were shut down, according to Yipit.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Groupon, declined to
comment on the Yipit report. Maire Griffin, a spokeswoman for
LivingSocial, didn’t return requests for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  