-- 
Li & Fung Drops as UBS Says Some Suppliers May Sever Ties

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-06-29T12:22:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/li-fung-falls-4-4-most-in-hang-seng-index-as-ubs-says-sell.html
Li & Fung Ltd. (494)  posted the largest
decline on Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  after UBS AG said some
suppliers are considering severing ties with the world’s biggest
seller of clothes and toys to retailers.  Li & Fung slumped 3.1 percent to HK$15.78 at the close of
trading on the Hong Kong stock exchange, the biggest decline
since June 17. UBS reiterated its “sell” rating on the stock.  “Industry sources flag that some larger suppliers are
considering leaving the Li & Fung system,” Spencer Leung, a
Hong Kong-based analyst for UBS, said in a note to clients
today. Li & Fung executives weren’t immediately available for
comment, according to an external spokeswoman, who declined to
be identified citing company policy.  Today’s stock-price decline also comes as  consumer
confidence  in the U.S., Li & Fung’s biggest market, dropped to a
seven-month low in June. The Conference Board’s sentiment index
decreased to 58.5 from a revised 61.7 in May, figures from the
New York-based private research group showed yesterday.  Other data on U.S. consumer sentiment echoed the Conference
Board’s. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment fell to 71.8 in June from 74.3 in
May. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index declined to minus 44.9
for the week ended June 19 from minus 44.0 the prior week.  Li & Fung, which started as a porcelain and silk trader in
southern  China  in 1906 near the end of the Qing dynasty, made 65
percent of last year’s HK$124 billion ($16 billion) revenue in
the U.S., with 24 percent coming from  Europe .  Its clients include  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
biggest retailer, Inditex SA’s Zara and Kohl’s Corp.  Li & Fung has dropped 30 percent this year, compared with a
4.2 percent decline for the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  