-- 
Libyan Soldiers May Stay Post-Qaddafi as NATO Allies Cite Lesson From Iraq

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-06-30T17:42:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/libyan-soldiers-may-stay-post-qaddafi-as-nato-allies-cite-lesson-from-iraq.html
The soldiers and police under
 Muammar Qaddafi ’s command can take comfort in knowing that they
may keep their jobs even after the Libyan dictator has been
deposed.  “One of the first things that should happen, once Tripoli
falls, is that someone should get on the phone to the former
Tripoli chief of police and tell him he’s got a job,” Britain’s
secretary of state for international development,  Andrew Mitchell , told reporters in  London , previewing a 50-page report
that maps out a contingency plan for a post-Qaddafi  Libya .  NATO allies taking part in United Nations-sanctioned
military operations say they have drawn lessons from Iraq. In
2003, the U.S. overthrew  Saddam Hussein  and dissolved his
military, a move that left about 350,000 Iraqis without work and
contributed to a protracted insurgency.  “Completely disbanding the army would be a mistake, as you
don’t want to suddenly put lots of young men, especially armed
ones, on the streets,” said Dan Byman, director of the Security
Studies Program at  Georgetown University  in Washington.
“However, some of the special units designed for regime
protection will at least need their officers removed.”  A U.K.-led team returned from eastern Libya to compile
their findings on what they anticipate will be the country’s
most basic needs, such as food and water, once a cease-fire is
in place and a transition is under way. The group of experts,
which included Turkish and Italian experts, looked at
infrastructure, welfare, security, politics and the economy.  Accusations Against Qaddafi  It’s not clear how the rebel leadership will choose to deal
with Qaddafi’s forces in light of the allegations of rape,
abduction, torture and targeting of civilians cited this week by
the chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Court,  Luis Moreno-Ocampo .  “It’s obvious we want to ensure history doesn’t repeat
itself,” said Maurizio Massari, a top adviser to Italian
Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini . “It’s also crucial to respect
Libyan ownership of the process and to share with the rebels
from the beginning how to tackle the post-Qaddafi period.”  Still, the report is vague about the outlook for getting
oil production back on stream, given the difficulties in gauging
the damage to western  oil fields  still controlled by Qaddafi,
Massari said.  Oil Contracts  Libya’s rebels, who control the oil-rich eastern part of
the country, plan to review all contracts in the event of a
victory over Qaddafi to make sure that no corruption was
involved in their awarding, Mahmoud Shammam, head of media
relations for the rebels’  National Transitional Council , told
reporters yesterday in Paris.  The findings have been circulated to the council, based in
Benghazi, and to the New York-based  United Nations , which may be
asked to send observers to oversee the cease-fire and, at a
later stage, to deploy peacekeepers, Massari said.  A U.S. team led by  Gene Cretz , the U.S. ambassador to
Libya, is examining the different post-conflict scenarios and
helped write certain excerpts of the assessment, according to
State Department deputy spokesman Mark Toner.  “It is a useful document to help us plan,” Toner told
reporters in Washington today. “This is an important
document,” he said, adding that “I am not going to put the
cart before the horse” given that Qaddafi has not been
overthrown yet.  Arrest Warrants  Adding urgency to the planning is the indictment of Qaddafi
on charges of crimes against humanity. The  International
Criminal Court  on June 27 issued arrest warrants for the Libyan
leader, his son Saif al-Islam Qaddafi and military intelligence
chief Abdullah al-Senussi, accusing them of killing, injuring,
arresting and imprisoning hundreds of civilians.  The court, in The Hague, Netherlands, does not have police
powers. Arrests would have to be made by the rebels or by
another nation’s police if any of those indicted leaves Libya.  Jean Ping , chairman of the  African Union Commission , said
yesterday that the arrest warrant for the Libyan leader will
“complicate” the situation in the North African nation. A move
by  France ’s air force to send arms to the rebels will increase
instability in the country, he told reporters in Malabo,
Equatorial Guinea’s capital.  The U.S. and its European allies say Qaddafi’s grip on the
country that holds Africa’s biggest oil reserves is nearing its
end as economic pressure and more intense  NATO-led strikes  erode
his ability resist the spreading insurgency.  “The Libyan regime’s capacity has been greatly reduced as
a consequence of our operation,” U.S. President  Barack Obama 
said yesterday at a White House news conference. “That’s
already been successful. What we’ve seen both in the east and in
the west is that opposition forces have been able to mobilize
themselves and start getting organized and people are starting
to see the possibility of a more peaceful future on the
horizon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  Washington  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  