-- 
ICC Warrant ‘Pours Oil on Fire’ in Libya, African Union Says

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-06-29T20:00:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/icc-warrant-pours-oil-on-fire-in-libya-african-union-says-1-.html
An International Criminal Court
arrest warrant for Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and two others
“pours oil on the fire” instead of helping to end the war,
said  Jean Ping , chairman of the  African Union  Commission.  “Everyone can see that the ICC always comes at an
inconvenient time, which pours oil on the fire,” Ping said
today. “You know very well that it complicates the situation.”  There should be no preconditions to talks between rebels
and Qaddafi’s government, Ping told reporters when asked whether
the Libyan leader shouldn’t be part of a transitional
government. Ping was speaking in Malabo, the capital of
Equatorial Guinea, ahead of an African Union summit that starts
tomorrow.  On June 27, the Hague-based ICC issued arrest warrants for
Qaddafi, his son Saif al-Islam Qaddafi and military intelligence
chief Abdullah al-Senussi. The three men are accused of killing,
injuring, arresting and imprisoning hundreds of civilians during
anti-regime protests that began in February.  The  National Transitional Council , which is battling the
Libyan army to oust the longtime dictator, said after the ICC
action that there is no room for Qaddafi, who has led  Libya  for
42 years, to be involved in talks in any way.  AU Initiative  Ping insisted that there is no way around an AU initiative
calling for the end of  NATO airstrikes  on Qaddafi’s forces and
political negotiations for a transitional government. While a
panel of African leaders tasked with pursuing a solution to the
Libyan crisis on June 26 said Qaddafi shouldn’t participate in
talks, it didn’t say that he shouldn’t be involved in the future
leadership of the North African nation.  The government of  France  confirmed today that it had
provided the rebels with arms to fight Qaddafi. Ping criticized
that action, saying that it increases the “risk of civil war,
risk of partition of the country, the risk of Somalisation of
the country” -- a reference to longstanding divisions in the
east African nation of Somalia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Malabo,  Equatorial Guinea , at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  