-- 
IFG Group to Open Books to Two ‘Highly Conditional’ Bids

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-06-29T14:09:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/ifg-group-to-open-books-to-two-highly-conditional-bids-1-.html
IFG Group Plc (IFP) , which specializes in
pension advice and administration, said it plans to open its
books in the next 10 days to two parties that have made “highly
conditional” bids for the company.  The Dublin-based company expects that due diligence will
take four to six weeks, after which the bidders must make firm
offers or walk away, Mark Bourke, group chief executive officer,
told reporters after a shareholder meeting today. Both bidders
intend to retain the existing management, Chairman Joe Moran
said at the same briefing in Dublin.  IFG has risen 39 percent this year, making it the fifth
best-performing stock on the 51-member ISEQ Index, after the
company said on May 4 it had received a takeover approach. The
indicative offer was made by U.K.-based private-equity firm
 Bregal Capital , according to various newspapers, including the
Sunday Times. The company subsequently received a rival approach
from Fiordland Investment Ltd., which has a 19 percent stake in
IFG. Officials from Bregal and Fiordland weren’t immediately
available for comment.  IFG rose 2.1 percent to 1.81 euros at 2:22 p.m. today in
Dublin trading, valuing the company at 226.7 million euros
($326.1 million).  Fiordland’s main shareholder, Edmund Truell, founder of
London-based  Pension Corp. , said in an interview on June 14 that
the process was moving at a slower pace “than we would have
expected.”  IFG’s board “is conscious that such a process must be
engaged with caution as sharing information which is
commercially sensitive” carries risks, Moran told shareholders
at the meeting. Moran and Bourke declined to disclose the price
of the bids.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  