-- 
Tiger Woods Endorses Japanese Heat Rub in First Deal Since His Sex Scandal

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-06-29T14:38:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/tiger-woods-endorses-japanese-heat-rub-in-first-deal-since-his-sex-scandal.html
Tiger Woods  signed an endorsement
agreement to promote a muscle-relief heat rub made by Japan-
based Kowa Co., the golfer’s first new deal since a sex scandal
that started almost two years ago.  Woods will be an “image character” for the company’s
Antiphlogistic Analgetic Vantelin Kowa series of products, the
Nagoya-based company said in a press release. A television
commercial with Woods will debut in Japan in mid-July, the
company said.  Closely held Kowa didn’t disclose terms of the agreement in
its release. Mark Steinberg, Woods’s agent, declined to provide
terms in an e-mail.  Golf’s former No. 1-ranked player was injured in a one-car
accident in November 2009 that led to his admission of marital
infidelity and the downfall of his personal and professional
career. He also hasn’t won a tournament since just before the
crash.  Over the past 18 months, Woods, 35, has lost endorsement
agreements with companies including  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Accenture Plc (ACN)  and
PepsiCo Inc.’s Gatorade brand. The 14-time major champion has
maintained commercial contracts with  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) ,  Nike
Inc. (NKE) , Upper Deck, Berkshire Hathaway’s NetJets Inc., and TLC
Vision Corp.  Woods hasn’t played in a tournament since May 12, when he
aggravated knee and ankle injuries sustained during the  Masters
Tournament  in April.  Woods said in a news conference yesterday that he won’t 
return to action until he feels 100 percent healthy, putting his
participation in next month’s British Open in question. Woods is
hosting this week’s AT&T National tournament, a U.S. PGA Tour
event which benefits his charitable foundation, at Aronimink
Golf Club in Newtown Square, Pennsylvania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  