-- 
IMF Urges U.S. Debt-Ceiling Increase to Avoid a ‘Severe Shock’ to Economy

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-06-29T15:15:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/imf-urges-u-s-debt-ceiling-increase-to-avoid-a-severe-shock-to-economy.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
today global markets will suffer if the  U.S. Congress  fails to
approve an increase in the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and
cautioned about the risk of a downgrade in the country’s  credit
rating .  “The federal debt ceiling should be raised expeditiously
to avoid a severe shock to the economy and world financial
markets,” the IMF said in a report on the  U.S. economy . The
report said a failure to reach a budget and debt compromise
could result in a “sudden increase in  interest rates  and/or a
sovereign downgrade.”  The IMF, in releasing a statement on the annual report,
said that risks to the U.S. include housing market weakness and
the European debt crisis.  “These risks would also have significant global
repercussions, given the central role of U.S. Treasury bonds in
world financial markets,” the IMF said.  “We’re confident that the participants are well aware of
the potential risks of a debt default in the U.S. and will avoid
those dangers,”  John Lipsky , IMF acting managing director, said
at a news conference today after the statement’s release. “It
should be self-evident a debt default by the U.S. government
debt market would have very serious, far-reaching, dramatic
repercussions and that’s why we’re confident that it will be
avoided.”  ‘Upside’ Surprise  The Washington-based lender also said that “recovery could
surprise on the upside” if confidence improves and hiring picks
up.  “An excessively frontloaded fiscal adjustment could hurt
the recovery and as we know a worsening of the financial turmoil
in European sovereign and bank debt markets could hurt U.S.
growth through financial sector linkages,” Lipsky told the news
conference.  Democrats and Republicans have been negotiating to find a
way to cut the long-term deficit and raise the nation’s debt
ceiling.  Standard & Poor’s  in April put the U.S. government on
notice that it risks losing its top credit rating unless policy
makers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits and the
national debt. Moody’s Investors Service this month said it will
put the U.S. government’s Aaa credit rating under review for a
downgrade unless there’s progress on increasing the limit by
mid-July.  U.S. Slowdown  The U.S. economy grew 1.9 percent last quarter, a slowdown
from 3.1 percent at the end of last year. Unemployment
unexpectedly climbed to 9.1 percent in May, homebuilder
confidence plunged to the lowest level in nine months and
economists cut their estimates for 2011 gross domestic product
growth to 2.5 percent from 3.2 percent in February.  The IMF today projected U.S. gross domestic product growth
of 2.5 percent in 2011 and 2.75 percent in 2012, with a slow
decline in unemployment. The 2011 projection is identical to one
forecast by the IMF on June 17, when the lender also projected a
2.7 percent increase next year.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , in an
interview with CNBC television last week, said that with long-
term U.S. economic growth of about 2.5 percent, the  unemployment
rate  “will gradually come down.”  U.S. employers added 54,000 jobs in May, the slowest pace
in eight months, according to June 3 Labor Department figures.  Jobless Rate  Fed officials cut their projections for economic growth
this year and raised their estimates for the jobless rate after
their June 21-22 meeting, noting that “the damping effect of
higher food and energy prices on consumer purchasing power and
spending” contributed to the slowdown.  The IMF endorsed the  Federal Reserve ’s current monetary
policy stance.  “With subdued inflation prospects and ample resource
underutilization, the extraordinary monetary policy
accommodation will likely remain appropriate for quite some
time,” the IMF said.  “Going forward, the Fed should remain vigilant to the risk
of an unmooring of long-term inflation expectations, and respond
decisively should the risk materialize in either direction,”
the IMF said.  Housing Market  The IMF also warned of problems in the U.S. housing
market and said policy efforts, including mortgage principal
“cramdowns,” may be needed. Banks have resisted efforts to
force principal write downs and succeeded in defeating such
legislative efforts. Home foreclosures fell 33.4 percent in May
from a year earlier, according to RealtyTrac Foreclosure report
released June 16.  “Allowing for the terms of residential mortgages to be
changed in courts -- cramdowns -- would create incentives for
voluntary modifications,” the IMF said. “In addition,
parametric changes to federal mortgage modification programs and
expanding state programs that assist unemployed homeowners could
usefully foster more participation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  