-- 
Indian Oil Seeks Khosla-Backed Ethanol Technology With Jindal

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-29T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/indian-oil-seeks-khosla-backed-ethanol-technology-with-jindal.html
Indian Oil Corp. and  Jindal Steel &
Power Ltd. (JSP)  are in talks to produce ethanol from waste gases
using a technology backed by billionaire  Vinod Khosla  as India
seeks to boost the use of green fuels amid rising crude prices.  The nation’s largest refiner and its biggest steel producer
by market value may seek to build a commercial-scale ethanol
plant with technology from LanzaTech, which uses microbes to
convert industrial pollutants such as carbon monoxide into
biofuels, LanzaTech said today in an e-mailed statement.  Waste gases from a Jindal steel plant could be used to
produce the green fuel for blending with Indian Oil’s gasoline
pool, it said.  India introduced a national biofuel policy in 2008 to
counter the rising costs of oil imports to meet 80 percent of
domestic needs after crude touched a record $147.27 a barrel
three years ago. In the financial year ended March 31,  Asia ’s
third-largest energy consumer spent  $99 billion  on crude
imports, according to the oil ministry.  The policy requires refiners to blend gasoline for a  10
percent ethanol content  and proposes to raise that to  20 percent
 by 2017. A shortage of sugar-based ethanol in the country has
made it difficult for companies to comply with those
regulations.  Crude futures have gained 22 percent in the past year.
Crude for August delivery fell 0.1 percent to $92.82 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Auckland, New Zealand-based LanzaTech, founded in 2005,
received $3.5 million in its first round of venture funding in a
deal led by Khosla Ventures, according to a 2007 Lanzatech
statement.  It raised $18 million last July in an investment led by
Shanghai-based Qiming Ventures and joined by  Khosla Ventures ,
K1W1 Ltd., an  investment company  owned by the founder of New
Zealand’s largest discount retailer Stephen Tindall, and
Softbank China Venture Capital, according to a website
 statement .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 