-- 
Indonesian IPOs Set For Record as Equities Rally, Top Advisor Bahana Says

-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-06-30T06:33:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/indonesian-ipos-set-for-record-as-equities-rally-top-advisor-bahana-says.html
Indonesian companies may raise a
record $4 billion through initial public offerings this year
amid rising domestic consumption and gains in  Asia ’s best
performing stock market, the nation’s top underwriter said.  Slowing inflation and low interest rates are boosting
domestic spending, encouraging companies to sell shares to
expand, said Eko Yuliantoro, president director of PT Bahana
Securities. Bahana helped companies raise $2.2 billion in IPOs
and secondary offerings over the past 12 months, the most in
Indonesia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Jakarta Composite index has risen 4.7 percent this
year, the most among benchmark gauges for Asia’s 14 largest
markets. Shares in Indonesia are trading at 17.9 times reported
profits, the highest in  Southeast Asia , while earnings are
forecast to climb to 254.2 rupiah per share this year, the
highest since at least December 2005, Bloomberg data show.  “Certain industries are taking advantage of the right
momentum” to sell shares, Yuliantoro said in a June 27
interview. “Given the current global market condition, the key
is growth as in earnings-per-share growth and for that people
are willing to pay a premium.”  The  Jakarta composite index (JCI)  rose 1.3 percent to 3,878.19 at
the noon local-time break, set for a record close. Gains for the
Indonesian index this year compare with a 0.8 percent drop in
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. Faster inflation among larger
developing-nation peers from  Brazil  to India has driven up
borrowing costs and reduced initial share sales.  Emerging Markets  The value of IPOs in Brazil has slipped 8 percent this year
to $3.5 billion and India’s has sunk 74 percent to $753 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Indonesian companies
have raised $1.28 billion through IPOs so far this year,
compared with about $320 million raised over the same period
last year, the data show.  The Indonesian central bank forecasts the economy to grow
as much as 6.5 percent this year, the fastest pace since 2004,
helping companies such as PT Garuda  Indonesia  to expand. The
nation’s largest airline ordered on June 21 25 Airbus SAS A320s
after raising 4.3 trillion rupiah ($498 million) in an IPO in
January, the biggest this year.  Bahana helped underwrite the sale of Garuda, along with
that of PT Krakatau Steel, the state-owned steel producer. The
company led PT Mandiri Sekuritas, Deutsche Bank AG and PT
Danareksa Sekuritas in arranging equity and rights offerings in
Indonesia over the past 12 months, according to Bloomberg data.  Inflation Outlook  Plans by companies to hold IPOs may be put on hold should
the government raise subsidized fuel prices, spurring inflation,
Bahana’s Yuliantoro said.  Crude  oil prices  have averaged $98.44 a barrel this year,
compared with $78.47 over the same period last year. Fuel
subsidies account for about 12 percent of  government spending ,
official data show. The government is studying options for fuel
subsidy cuts and the effect on inflation,  Karen Agustiawan ,
president director of PT Pertamina, the state-owned  oil company ,
said June 12.  “People wonder when fuel prices will rise,” Yuliantoro
said. “It’s not that high inflation will automatically disrupt
IPOs; it’s that there’s increased uncertainty.”  Indonesia’s consumer prices rose 5.98 percent in May from a
year earlier, decelerating for a fourth straight month.
Inflation may slow to 5.4 percent in June, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. Easing inflation has helped
 Bank Indonesia  keep its benchmark interest rate at a near record
low of 6.75 percent after raising it in February. China has
increased borrowing costs four times since October and  India 
lifted rates 10 times since the start of 2010.  Market ‘Friendly’  Morgan Stanley, which expects no further rate increases
this year for Indonesia, boosted the nation’s market rating to
“equal-weight” from “underweight.”  “The revised interest-rate trajectory for Indonesia
implies a divergence from the rest of emerging markets, which
was not previously in our economics forecasts,” Morgan Stanley
analysts led by  Jonathan Garner  wrote in a June 28 note. It “is
therefore equity market friendly,” they said.  Bahana has a 12-month forecast for the Jakarta Composite
index of 4,350, said Teguh Hartanto, deputy head of research at
the brokerage. That represents a gain of 14 percent from the
June 28 close. The market was shut for a holiday yesterday.  Market conditions will likely stay conducive for share
sales until the second half of next year, after which concern
over political stability may increase before general elections
are held in 2014, Yuliantoro said. President Susilo Bambang
Yudhoyono’s second five-year term will end in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  