-- 
Mining Truck Tires Pricier Than Porsches, Miami Condominiums

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-06-29T14:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/mining-truck-tires-pricier-than-porsches-miami-condominiums.html
China ’s insatiable demand for
commodities has prompted a tripling in the price of mining truck
tires, making them more expensive than a  Porsche 911 Carrera S
type  or a condominium in Miami.  Prices for tires about 3.5 meters (11 feet) across, used on
the Caterpillar Inc.  trucks  that haul  iron ore  and coal, have
touched $100,000 on the  spot market , according to  Leighton
Holdings Ltd. (LEI) , a contractor for mining companies including  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Anglo American Ltd. Prices rose as high as
$150,000 in 2008.  That compares with contract prices of about $30,000,
according to  Roesler Tyre Innovators GmbH , which retreads so-
called off-the-road tires. Demand from China, the world’s
biggest metals buyer, drove copper, iron ore, gold and coal to
records this year, forcing companies to compete for the
equipment and labor needed to mine them.  “We fear the situation will become as tight as in 2007,”
Paul Roesler, managing partner of Dortmund-based  Tyre
Innovators , said by phone from the company’s Perth office,
citing Michelin & Cie and Bridgestone Corp. as major suppliers.
“We see tight tire supply and high prices become a challenge
for mining companies again but we think that the large players
have prepared for this and have better contracts with suppliers
and have improved stock.”  ‘Just Exploding’  Demand for mining tires is “just exploding,” according to
 Titan International Inc. (TWI)  Manufacturers are reporting full order
books for off-the-road tires for the next 18 months and alerting
customers to the risk of shortages this year, according to
Global Markets Perspectives Ltd.  “Where we need to expand rapidly or where we have a new
project, then we have to source tires on the spot market like
everyone else,” said Christian Sealey, a spokesman at Sydney-
based Leighton, Australia’s biggest builder, in a telephone
interview.  “In those situations we’re finding some
inflation.”  The last time tire prices surged was during the mining boom
before the global financial crisis.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the
world’s largest gold producer, said in January 2008 that it paid
as much as $60,000 a tire for its largest vehicles, while some
sold for as much as $300,000 in Internet auctions. The tire
drought left companies such as  De Beers , the world’s biggest
diamond producer, unable at times to use new trucks.  The  Porsche 911 , including tires, costs $91,450, the
carmaker says on its U.S. web site, while the median price in
the first quarter of a previously owned condo in Miami-Fort
Lauderdale was $79,200, according to the National Association of
Realtors.  Market Tightening  “There seems to be a tightening of the market,”  Lyndon Fagan , an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said by
phone Sydney. “There are comments there’ll be a wait for
tires.”  In Australia, the world’s biggest exporter of iron ore,
coal and alumina, there are a record A$174 billion ($183
billion) of minerals and energy projects at an advanced stage of
development, according to government forecasts last month. Rio
Tinto Group, the No. 2 exporter of iron ore, is planning a $14.8
billion expansion to double output in Western  Australia ’s
Pilbara region to 333 million metric tons by 2015.  Rio is prepared, said Gervase Greene, a Perth-based
spokesman for the company. “We have appropriate arrangements
with long-term suppliers to ensure that these price movements
don’t affect us.”  The price of tires used in Australia by Newmont Mining
Ltd., partner in the nation’s biggest open-cut gold mine,
increased 4 percent this year, though this was offset by a
stronger local currency, said Brian Watt, a company spokesman.  “Smaller players and mining contractors will find it
difficult to meet their demand because they don’t tend to have
longstanding supply contracts,” said Tyre Innovators’ Roesler.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  