-- 
Innkeepers Judge Approves Bankruptcy Plan, Sales to Cerberus and Chatham

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-06-29T21:22:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/innkeepers-judge-approves-bankruptcy-plan-sales-to-cerberus-and-chatham.html
Innkeepers USA Trust won final court
approval for a reorganization plan that includes a sale of 64 of
the company’s hotels to Cerberus Capital Management LP and
 Chatham Lodging Trust (CLDT) , paving its way to exit bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman approved the plan
today, after saying in Manhattan court June 24 that she intended
to sign off on the hotel company’s restructuring. The plan has
the support of Innkeeper’s secured creditors and more than 90
percent of its unsecured creditors, according to a company
statement.  “The successful restructuring of this company and the
preservation of 3,500 jobs is a truly remarkable achievement,”
given the hospitality industry’s challenges in 2010, said
Innkeepers’ Chief Restructuring Officer, Marc A. Beilinson, in a
statement.  Innkeepers owns 71 hotels in 20 U.S. states, including
Residence Inns by Marriott and Hampton Inns. Lehman Ali, a unit
of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , helped finance the buyout of
Innkeepers with a $1.2 billion loan. The company’s bankruptcy
petition listed assets of $1.5 billion against debt totaling
$1.52 billion.  The deal returns Chatham Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Fisher to Innkeepers, which he founded in 1994 with seven
hotels. The company was acquired by  Apollo Investment Corp. (AINV)  in
2007.  Winning Bid  At an auction in May, Cerberus and Chatham placed a winning
bid of $1.1 billion for the largest group of hotels, topping an
offer from Lehman Ali and Five Mile Capital Partners. Chatham, a
real estate investment trust based in  Palm Beach , Florida, has
10 percent of the joint venture formed with Cerberus, Fisher
said.  In addition to the 64 hotels, Chatham won another group of
five hotels with a bid of $195 million. Two other hotels will be
turned over to lenders, according to court papers. Most of
Innkeepers’ hotel portfolio is made up of extended-stay hotels,
according to court papers.  Midland Loan Services, the special servicer of an $825
million mortgage loan, and Lehman filed objections to
Innkeepers’ bankruptcy plan and later withdrew them under an
agreement announced in court.  The case is In re  Innkeepers USA Trust , 10-13800,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  