-- 
Institutions Pull Most From Prime Money Funds Since March 2010 on Greece

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-06-29T20:58:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/institutions-pull-out-of-prime-money-funds.html
Institutions pulled out of U.S.
prime money-market funds at the fastest pace in 15 months,
shifting to funds that invest only in U.S. government-backed
securities out of concern the European debt crisis would worsen.  Institutional funds eligible to buy corporate debt lost $39
billion to net withdrawals in the week ended June 28 and $75
billion in the past two weeks, falling to $1.04 trillion,
according to data from research firm iMoneyNet in Westborough,
 Massachusetts . Institutional money funds that buy only U.S.
government-backed securities gathered $27 billion in net
deposits, rising to $599 billion.  “No doubt there was some shifting over European
concerns,” said  Peter Crane , president of Crane Data LLC, also
in Westborough. Investors pulled $15 billion from institutional
prime funds on June 24, his data showed.  The European sovereign-debt crisis has raised concern that
prime money-market funds may suffer losses if sovereign defaults
cause big banks to fail to meet obligations. Greek Prime
Minister George Papandreou today clinched enough votes to pass
the first part of an austerity plan aimed at meeting European
Union aid requirements and staving off default for his debt-
laden nation.  A Greek default could pose a potential threat to money
funds because they have lent to European banks that, in turn,
have lent to  Greece  and other heavily indebted European
countries. Prime U.S. money funds had about $800 billion, or
half their assets as of May 31, in securities issued by European
banks,  Fitch Ratings  estimated.  Spain,  Italy   Money managers and analysts, including Vanguard Group Inc.
Chief Investment Officer George “Gus” Sauter, said money funds
would only be threatened if default concerns spread to Spain and
Italy.  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based Vanguard is the world’s
largest mutual-fund provider.  The $39 billion withdrawal was the most pulled from prime
institutional funds in one week since investors took $42 billion
out in the week ended March 16, 2010. Retail prime funds lost
$4.77 billion, falling to $531 billion. Total money-market fund
assets decreased $18 billion to $2.66 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 