-- 
Iraq Oil Assets May Be at Risk of Seizure as UN Mandate on Claims Expires

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-06-29T21:32:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/iraq-oil-assets-may-be-at-risk-of-seizure.html
The expiration today of United
Nations protection of Iraq’s oil revenue from creditors seeking
damages stemming from  Saddam Hussein ’s 1990 invasion of Kuwait
may make the assets vulnerable to seizure, exacerbating tensions
between the two countries.  The  Security Council  voted in December to allow expiration
of UN oversight and immunity for oil revenue deposited in the
Development Fund for Iraq, created in 2003 to pay off debts
incurred by the Hussein regime. Iraq, which holds the world’s
fifth-largest crude reserves, will continue to pay 5 percent of
its oil revenue to Kuwait as compensation for damages, including
the theft of 10 Kuwaiti aircraft by Hussein.  Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari said in December that Iraq
would seek bilateral agreements to protect its assets abroad
once the mandate expired. He didn’t elaborate and the Iraqi
government has made no announcements since then. Parliamentary
monetary committee member Jawad al-Bolani said in an interview
that a team of experts is trying to resolve the issue of Iraqi
funds abroad and that ‘significant steps” have been made.  A lawyer for  Kuwait  Airways Corp., Christopher Gooding,
said “the class of assets against which we can seek enforcement
has expanded.”  “Despite pleas to the contrary, Iraq is an extremely rich
country,” Gooding, a partner at London-based  Fasken Martineau ,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Its trading assets
are available worldwide, and it remains our intention to seize
Iraqi assets whenever and wherever they are available.”  Hussein’s Debts  Iraq amassed about $130 billion in debt under Hussein, of
which it still owes about $21 billion to Kuwait. It also owes
money to  Qatar  and  Saudi Arabia , and continues to pay into the
UN compensation fund even as its economy tries to recover from
decades of conflict, sanctions and sabotage, eight years after
the U.S.-led invasion that ousted Hussein.  “For anyone with unpaid debts with Iraq, this is a very
significant development,”  Stephen Fietta , a solicitor at
Volterra Fietta in  London , said in an interview, referring to
the expiration.  Most legal jurisdictions recognize the ability of creditors
to seize debtors’ assets as a means of debt enforcement. A
sophisticated creditor may be able to track Iraqi cargo and try
to seize it as it enters a port, or upon its discharge, he said.  “The risk might be minimized if the legal title was
transferred by the Iraqi government before the oil was
shipped,” Fietta said. “So there are ways around this, but the
constant risk of seizure and enforcement can become a real
headache for sovereign debtors, just as for private ones.”  Oil Export Plans  In July, Iraq will export 16.3 million barrels of Kirkuk
crude oil from the Turkish port of Ceyhan on the Mediterranean,
according to a shipping schedule obtained by Bloomberg News.  The July program comprises 24 cargoes with total volume of
524,355 barrels a day, the plan showed. The cargo sizes range
from 250,000 barrels to 1 million barrels.  Relations between Iraq and Kuwait have been strained since
the end of the war in 1991. Outstanding issues include the
demarcation of borders, missing persons and the location of
Kuwaiti government archives. The 21-year row over the plundering
of the Kuwaiti planes highlights the risks.  Iraqi Airways  offices in Amman were seized in May and
assets of $1.5 million frozen following a lawsuit by Kuwait
Airways. The Kuwaiti carrier is seeking $1.2 billion in
compensation, and won a U.K. court order to freeze the Iraqi
airline’s global assets in April 2010.  Billion-Dollar Ruling  In a 2005 ruling in  England , Iraqi Airways was ordered to
pay more than $1 billion to Kuwait Airways. In October, the
Canadian  Supreme Court  ruled that Iraq can’t rely on state
immunity to thwart efforts by Kuwaiti Airlines to seize assets
in Canada, including planes made by Bombardier Inc.  “It is true that the international immunity will no longer
be there; what will happen after June 30, we will have to see,”
said Muzhar Saleh, adviser to  Iraq  Central Bank Governor Sinan Al Shabibi, in a June 28 telephone interview from  Baghdad .
“Iraq has a large legal team, both at home and abroad, which
will handle any future litigation.”  Saleh, like other Iraqi officials, called for all debts
remaining from the Hussein era to be written off. Otherwise, he
said Iraq will continue to put aside money into a fund that will
be supervised by Iraq’s central bank.  Stephen Tricks, a partner at Clyde & Co LLP in London, said
most of the claims are likely to come from Kuwait Airlines, and
that he doesn’t expect to see “a large flood of claims” from
companies and individuals sued for compensation.  Gooding said Kuwait Airlines would be willing to listen to
proposals to settle the case.  “The door is open,” he said. “There are no absolutes,
but equally there has to be some movement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  