-- 
IRS Cuts Mean Less Taxpayer Help: Advocate

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-06-29T14:24:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/irs-falling-backward-on-taxpayer-help-amid-cuts-advocate-says.html
A cash-constrained  Internal Revenue
Service  would become more automated and show less sensitivity to
individuals, National Taxpayer Advocate Nina Olson said in her
annual mid-year report.  “The downside of having to do more with fewer resources is
that the IRS will apply more ‘bright-line’ tests to taxpayer
situations, because having to look at a taxpayer’s specific
facts and circumstances is time-consuming and costly,” Olson,
who runs an independent organization within the IRS, wrote in
the report released today in Washington.  The House Appropriations Committee voted June 23 to approve
an $11.5 billion IRS budget for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1,
5 percent below this year’s budget and 13.3 percent below the
administration’s request. The full House is expected to vote on
the spending request in July.  IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman has warned that budget
cuts would hurt enforcement of the  tax code  and increase the
 budget deficit  by allowing more revenue to go uncollected.  Olson also wrote in the report that the agency’s
“discomfort with exercising judgment and discretion” extends
beyond its constrained budget.  IRS Criticism  “I believe it reflects a failure to view taxpayers as
human beings and to recognize that, as a tax agency, we deal
with taxpayers as we find them, with all the vagaries of human
existence,” Olson wrote.  Olson added that she is concerned the IRS is “falling
backward in its commitment to taxpayer service.”  She criticized the agency’s handling of the initial version
of the first-time homebuyer tax credit, which operated like an
interest-free, 15-year loan. IRS problems in computer
programming and guidance to taxpayers caused a “massive
breakdown” that delayed refunds this year, Olson wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  