-- 
Israeli Telecom Shares Perform Worst as Competition to Toughen

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-29T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/israeli-telecom-shares-perform-worst-as-competition-to-toughen.html
Israeli phone companies were the
worst performers on the local stock exchange in the second
quarter as the government opens up the 30 billion-shekel ($8.7
billion) telecommunications market for greater competition.  The 12-member telecommunications index, including Bezeq
Israeli Telecommunication Corp.,  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  and Hot
Telecommunication System, fell 15.4 percent since the measure
was started in April. That compares with a 13.3 percent drop in
TA Insurance, 6.5 percent fall in TA Banking Index, 3.5 percent
retreat in both TA Oil & Gas and TA-Technology indexes. The
benchmark TA-25 index declined 7 percent in the same period and
the Nasdaq Telecommunications Index lost more than 6 percent.  “Israel’s telecommunication shares used to be the
favorite, but they fell out of grace about six months ago when
it turned out that the Ministry of Communications was serious
about introducing competition,” said Gilad Alper, senior
analyst at Meitav Investment Ltd. “The cost of the competition
is becoming clear to the  capital market .’  The government plans to let Israel Electric Co., a state-
owned power provider, set up a third fixed-line network in the
next two years. It will also start a fourth mobile-phone
operator and several virtual ones. The Communications Ministry
may next week order fixed-line operators Hot and Bezeq to lease
their network to smaller competitors for the same price they
charge their customers,  TheMarker  reported June 28.  The ministry ‘‘is examining the prices the larger companies
are charging their smaller competitors to use their networks,’’
Yechiel Shabi, a ministry spokesman, said today.  New Operator  ‘‘Once seen as a defensive investment, these companies are
showing weakness,’’ said Ori Licht, head of research at IBI-
 Israel  Brokerage Investments Ltd. ‘‘The reasons for this are
continued regulatory pressure and assessments Israel Electric is
picking up speed in finding an investor for its fixed-line
network.’’  Discount Investment Corp., controlling shareholder in
Cellcom, on June 28 sold a 5 percent stake in Israel’s largest
mobile phone company by number of subscribers to non-U.S.
institutional investors. Cellcom tumbled to its lowest close in
two years on that day.  Net income at Cellcom and Bezeq has been falling for the
past three quarters. Bezeq underperformed the TA-25 benchmark
this year, declining 21 percent compared with a 20 percent drop
for Cellcom.  Hot Bucks Trend  Hot, whose net income jumped 43 percent to 80 million
shekels in the first quarter as it cut costs, bucked the trend,
advancing 3.2 percent this year. The company said in May its
controlling shareholder asked the board to start negotiating a
merger with wireless operator MIRS Communication Ltd. to help
the company compete against Bezeq.  Bezeq yesterday doubled the size of a bond sale to 3
billion shekels ($874 million) in what Eran Jacoby, head of
research at DS Securities and Investments Ltd. in  Tel Aviv , said
was a way to raise money to pay dividends and invest in
infrastructure.  ‘‘The bottom line is that it is tough,’’ said Daniel Meron,
technology analyst at  RBC Capital Markets . ‘‘When you talk to
investors, either from Israel or from overseas, it isn’t a
compelling investment when you have so much uncertainty and
changes going on.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  