-- 
Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Advance as Greece Votes for Austerity

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-06-29T23:34:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/japanese-australian-stock-futures-advance-as-greece-votes-for-austerity.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures rose after Greece passed austerity measures needed to
secure aid from the European Union, easing concern the country
will suffer a default that destabilizes the banking system.  American depositary receipts Canon Inc., which counts
Europe as its largest market, advanced 0.8 percent from the
closing share price in  Tokyo . Those of Mizuho Financial Group
Inc., Japan’s third-biggest lender by market value, climbed 1.2
percent. ADRs of BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining
company and Australia’s No. 1 oil producer, gained 0.6 percent
after curde and metal prices increased.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 9,855 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
9,790 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,840
in Osaka, at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.7 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index increased 0.5 percent in Wellington.  “There will still be a lot of twists and turns, but Greece
has been able to avoid a worst-case scenario,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600 million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co. “That makes it easier for investors
to take on risk.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The index rose 0.8 percent yesterday as  Greece ’s
parliament passed budget cuts and tax increases that satisfy EU
conditions for more bailout money. Banks gained after the
 Federal Reserve  raised a ceiling on debit-card transaction fees.  ‘Grave Scenario’  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou yesterday clinched
enough votes to pass the first part of an austerity plan aimed
at meeting EU requirements and staving off default for his debt-
laden nation. EU officials said they wouldn’t provide loans
needed to cover bonds maturing in August unless Greece approved
the package.  “The country has taken an important step forward along the
necessary path of fiscal consolidation,” EU President  Herman
Van Rompuy  and European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said
in a joint statement after the vote. “It has also taken a vital
step back -- from the very grave scenario of default.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 3.2 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 4 percent by the  S&P
500  and a drop of 2.2 percent by the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.7 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.2 times for the S&P 500
and 11 times for the Stoxx 600.  Crude oil for August delivery increased 2 percent to settle
at $94.77 a barrel in  New York  yesterday, after the U.S.
government said　supplies dropped almost three times as much as
expected.　The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
metals including copper and aluminum advanced 2.1 percent, the
most since June 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 