-- 
Corporate Jet Tax Gets Six Obama Mentions, $3 Billion Estimate

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-06-30T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/jet-tax-break-cited-six-times-by-obama-would-cut-debt-by-about-3-billion.html
President  Barack Obama ’s proposal to
end a tax break for corporate jet owners, a repeated refrain in
his news conference yesterday, would achieve less than one-tenth
of 1 percent of his target for reducing the federal deficit.  Such a change would put $3 billion into the Treasury over a
decade, said two congressional aides familiar with the proposal.
Democrats want to require companies that use jets for business
purposes to write off the cost over seven years, instead of the
five years allowed under current law, said a congressional aide
and a White House aide. Airplanes used for charter or commercial
flights already must be depreciated over seven years.  Obama mentioned the corporate jet break six times,
criticizing Republicans’ unwillingness to include tax increases
in legislation to raise the federal debt ceiling. Republicans
are pressing for spending cuts in the measure, which must be
passed before Aug. 2, when the Treasury Department projects that
the U.S. will no longer be able to meet its debt obligations.  “It would be hard for the Republicans to stand there and
say that the tax break for corporate jets is sufficiently
important that we’re not willing to come to the table and get a
deal done,” Obama said during the White House news conference.  It would take much more than eliminating a break for
corporate jets to complete the deal. The $3 billion proposal
would generate 0.075 percent of the $4 trillion in deficit
reduction that Obama is seeking through a combination of
spending cuts and tax increases.  Stirring Reaction  Obama’s comments on jets continued to stir reaction today.  Utah Senator  Orrin Hatch , the top Republican on the Senate
Finance Committee, disparaged Democratic efforts to scale back
tax breaks for corporate jets, yachts and charitable
contributions by wealthy people.  “We get $3 billion out of private planes?” Hatch told
reporters. “Over 10 years? Give me a break.”  Ending such tax breaks won’t “do anything about the real
spending programs that really are driving us into bankruptcy,”
he said.  Hatch disputed the notion that Republicans would be put at
 political risk by opposing elimination of the tax breaks as
Democrats strive to find revenue to cut the deficit.  ‘Cheap Politics’  “We aren’t defending anybody,” he said. “We are saying
that it’s cheap politics to selectively pick out people that the
Democrats don’t like and then try to punish them by taking away
various tax expenditures that may be good in certain cases.”  Democratic Senator Ben Cardin of  Maryland  disagreed,
telling reporters: “Add them all up, there’s substantial
numbers.”  “Every billion, of course, is important,” he said.  The head of a key business aviation trade group said his
members have been unfairly targeted by the president.  “We’re obviously very upset that our industry is being
singled out for what we view as political purposes,” said Pete
Bunce, president of the Washington-based  General Aviation
Manufacturers Association . The group’s members include
subsidiaries of  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Boeing Co. (BA) , and  Textron
Inc. (TXT)   Bunce noted that Obama was at an  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  plant in
Bettendorf,  Iowa , on June 28, emphasizing the importance of the
company’s products to airplane manufacturers.  ‘Scratching Our Heads’  Now, Bunce said, “he’s going after a segment of the
aviation industry that uses Alcoa’s products. We’re just
scratching our heads.”  Obama mentioned corporate jet owners along with  oil
companies  and hedge fund managers as those who should pay more
in taxes, setting them in opposition to recipients of college
scholarships and medical research grants who could lose benefits
under Republican-sponsored budget cuts. Obama had featured
provisions affecting those groups in his proposed fiscal 2012
budget; the corporate jet provision wasn’t included.  Democrats are trying to probe the limits of Republicans’
insistence on avoiding tax increases, particularly after 33
Senate Republicans voted June 16 to end tax breaks for ethanol
production.  “It’s only fair to ask an  oil company  or a corporate jet
owner that has done so well to give up that tax break that no
other business enjoys,” Obama said. “I don’t think that’s real
radical. I think the majority of Americans agree with that.”  Previous Proposals  Previous administration proposals to encourage business
investment have benefited the aircraft industry. Under the tax
law that Congress passed in December 2010, companies purchasing
new equipment -- including jets -- can deduct the entire cost of
equipment purchases in the first year instead of taking
depreciation deductions over time.  “It seems to me that the  tax policy  here is all over the
map,” said  Gary Horowitz , an attorney at Wiley Rein LLP in
McLean, Virginia.  Horowitz and other lawyers who advise companies on airline
purchases said the proposed change would affect business
decisions about when to buy aircraft. The change could cause
companies to delay purchases or buy smaller planes than they
would have purchased otherwise.  The difference in depreciation schedules is a longstanding
feature of the  tax code .  “I’ve been doing this for a long time, and that’s been in
the code as long as I can remember,” said Harry Ekblom, a
partner at Sullivan & Worcester LLP in  Boston .  1986 Overhaul  As part of the 1986 overhaul of the tax code, Congress
incorporated the depreciation schedules into the new law and
gave the Treasury Department the ability to change the “class
life” of assets that would “reasonably reflect the anticipated
useful life,” according to the law.  That portion of the law was scheduled to take effect in
1992. Congress repealed it in 1988, preventing the Treasury
Department and the  Internal Revenue Service  from changing the
rules.  “The current tax depreciation system is not conducive to
economic growth, simplicity or fairness,” Thomas Neubig, who
set up the depreciation office at Treasury, said in 2005
congressional testimony.  Neubig, who is now at Ernst & Young LLP in  Washington , said
in his testimony that the current depreciation schedules are
largely based on a Treasury Department study of corporate income
tax returns from 1959.  Neither the five-year nor seven-year schedule reflects the
actual economic life of an airplane.  “They last decades,” said Dan Hubbard, a spokesman for
the  National Business Aviation Association  in Washington.  Shawn Vick, executive vice president of Wichita, Kansas-
based Hawker Beechcraft Acquisition Co., said Obama’s proposal
“just seems out of step with the stated goals” of promoting
job growth and strengthening the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  