-- 
JPMorgan to Recruit More Private Bankers in Asia

-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 
2011-06-29T07:22:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/jpmorgan-to-recruit-70-more-private-bankers-in-asia-by-2012.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  plans to
increase the number of private bankers in Asia by about 70
percent by the end of 2012 to tap rising wealth in the region.  The second-biggest U.S. bank by assets is hiring 100
advisers to wealthy Asians this year and next, adding to the 140
employed at the end of 2010, Andrew Cohen, the Hong Kong-based
chief executive officer of JPMorgan’s private banking for ultra-
high net worth individuals in Asia, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. These include bankers, global investment
specialists, wealth advisers and capital advisers.  JPMorgan, based in  New York , joins competitors in expanding
offices in the region to win a share of the growing number of
rich Asians. Wealth in  Asia , excluding  Japan , is expected to
rise at about double the global rate of almost 6 percent through
the next five years, the  Boston Consulting Group  said in a May
31 report. Millionaires in Asia outnumbered those in Europe for
the first time in 2010, according to a report by Capgemini SA
and Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management.  “Getting the right talent, training them and retaining
them are the biggest challenges in Asia,” said Cohen, who has
been heading the Asian business since June 2010. JPMorgan is
hiring private bankers, as well as people from corporate banking,
 hedge funds , private equity and consulting firms with a focus on
banking, he said. The bank is also hiring from outside Asia.  Asian Growth  The wealth of 3.3 million high-net-worth individuals in the
Asia-Pacific region climbed 12.1 percent last year to $10.8
trillion, exceeding the $10.2 trillion accumulated by 3.1
million people in  Europe , according to the Capgemini/Merrill
Lynch World Wealth Report released on June 23.  Cohen said he’s committed to the goal given last year of
tripling the size of the Asian business in five years.  The forecast is for JPMorgan’s entire private banking
business, including the private wealth management unit, which
caters to individuals with investable assets of $10 million to
$30 million, and the private bank for ultra-high net worth
individuals with assets exceeding $30 million.  Cohen didn’t disclose the size of the private banking arm’s
assets in the region. Globally, JPMorgan’s private banking
operations manage a total of $750 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net  