-- 
JPMorgan Chase Appoints Jeff Urwin as Worldwide Head of Investment Banking

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-06-29T22:37:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/jpmorgan-chase-appoints-jeff-urwin-as-worldwide-head-of-investment-banking.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , this year’s
top adviser on corporate takeovers, appointed Jeff Urwin to be
global head of  investment banking  as it seeks to coordinate
operations across regions.  Urwin, co-head of North American investment banking since
July, will lead investment-banking coverage, capital markets and
mergers and acquisitions, wrote Jes Staley, chief executive
officer of JPMorgan’s investment bank, in an employee memo
obtained by Bloomberg News and confirmed by  Tasha Pelio , a
company spokeswoman. JPMorgan, the second-largest U.S. lender,
hasn’t had a global head of investment banking in years.  “We interact in a global marketplace at a pace and along
dimensions not possible as recently as a few years ago,”
Staley, 56, wrote in the memo. “The opportunities to serve are
enormous, as are the challenges, and it is important that
JPMorgan’s coverage model conform to this global paradigm.”  Urwin, 55, is among the highest-ranking JPMorgan executives
to join the New York-based firm through its 2008 acquisition of
Bear Stearns Cos. Reporting to Staley, he will help run a
business that ranks No. 1 in U.S. debt underwriting and
syndicated-loan underwriting and that has advised on $269.2
billion in takeovers this year, ahead of Morgan Stanley and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Dimon’s Expansion Goals  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  has made expanding
overseas a priority as emerging markets like Brazil grow at two
and three times the pace of developed nations like the U.S. and
U.K. Investment bank head Staley laid out ambitious plans early
last year to double the bank’s market share in Asia in
the next few years.  “We’re adding bankers, branches, and products to serve the
multinationals where they want to be served,” Dimon, 55, told
investors June 2 at a conference held by Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. in New York. “If we go to  China  or India or Indonesia or
Malaysia, it’s not just for the business there. We’re helping
Italian companies go to  Indonesia . We’re helping Indonesian
companies go to America.”  In the memo, Staley described Urwin as a “highly
experienced” banker, manager and leader.  “He has played a pivotal role in building our Americas
investment-banking franchise over the past three years,” Staley
wrote. A successor for the post Urwin is vacating will be named
“shortly,” Staley said.  Urwin was co-head of investment banking at Bear Stearns,
which he joined in 1996, and head of global emerging markets at
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in New York. He and Kevin Willsey
replaced Doug Braunstein as co-heads of investment banking for
the U.S. and Canada last year when Braunstein became chief
financial officer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 