-- 
SEC Appeals Dismissal of Morgan Keegan Securities-Fraud Suit

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 
2011-09-08T18:55:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/judge-rejects-sec-claims-that-morgan-keegan-misled-auction-rate-investors.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission appealed the dismissal of its securities-fraud suit
against Morgan Keegan & Co. alleging the  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) 
unit misled investors.  The SEC yesterday asked for a transcript of the lower-court
proceedings to forward to the Atlanta-based U.S. Court of
Appeals. It filed a notice of appeal on Aug. 26.  Judge William Duffey ruled June 28 in favor of the
financial-services company, throwing out the government’s claim
that it didn’t provide heightened disclosure that auction-rate
securities were regularly failing. Morgan Keegan’s “failure to
predict the market does not constitute securities fraud,”
Duffey wrote in his opinion.  Since the case was filed two years ago, investors who lost
money in the $330 billion auction-rate securities market were
paid billions of dollars by dozens of banks.  The market collapsed in February 2008 when dealers stopped
participating in auctions at which interest rates were
periodically reset. The investments typically were municipal and
student-loan-backed bonds and preferred shares.  Investors accused the financial institutions of steering
them to instruments promoted as safe as cash that turned out to
be illiquid and couldn’t be redeemed.  Evelyn Mitchell, a Regions Financial spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the appeal.  The case is Securities Exchange Commission v. Morgan Keegan
& Co., 1:09-cv-01965, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Georgia (Atlanta). The appeal is Securities and Exchange
Commission v. Morgan Keegan & Co., 11-13992, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the 11th Circuit (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story: 
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  