-- 
Kasich Tries to Avoid Arizona’s Mistakes in Ohio Prison Selloff

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-06-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/kasich-tries-to-avoid-arizona-s-mistakes-in-ohio-prison-selloff.html
Linda Janes says she tried to
consider every circumstance when  Ohio  set out in February to
sell five prisons. Charged with getting the best deal, she even
insisted that the buyer engage in “hot pursuit of escapees.”  Janes, chief of staff for the department that runs the
state’s lockups, led a team of about 20 officials from three
agencies and Governor  John Kasich ’s office that met “pretty
constantly for two months straight” to prepare a request for
proposals due this week. Members toted laptops with project-
management software and spreadsheets, spelling out requirements
for bidders in a 115-page  document .  U.S. prisoners in private facilities have increased 82
percent during the past decade to 129,336 at the end of 2009,
according to the  U.S. Bureau of Justice Statistics . As Ohio
closes an $8 billion  budget deficit , it’s trying something no
other state has: selling prisons to raise an estimated $200
million and seeking offers for the buyer or another company to
operate them.  “This is a new approach; no one’s really evaluated it,”
 James Austin , former director of the Institute on Crime, Justice
and Corrections at George Washington University and president of
the  JFA Institute , a Washington-based corrections-consulting
company, said in a telephone interview.  Take the Ill  Janes’s team wanted provisions for reclaiming a prison if
an operator didn’t work out. They sought to avoid situations
such as Arizona’s allowing companies to reject sick inmates,
sticking the state with the bill.  “We probably learned from some other folks’ mistakes and
then went and enhanced our language to make sure we didn’t wind
up in that same bind in Ohio,” Janes, 44, said in a telephone
interview from Columbus.  Opponents, including the  American Civil Liberties Union 
and leaders of the prison guards’ union, say the state won’t get
a fair value or enjoy projected savings.  “Everyone always thinks that this is going to be the time
that private prisons work,” Mike Brickner, director of public
policy for the  ACLU of Ohio , said in an interview. “The model
itself is just bad.”  Ohio is offering three packages for five facilities on 696
acres that hold a combined 6,100 inmates and 1,200 staff.
Bidders may buy prisons, operate them with 20-year contracts
with an annual per-diem payment from the state, or both.  Cutting Haircuts?  At the  North Central Correctional Institution  in Marion, a
16-building complex about 50 miles (80.5 kilometers) north of
Columbus, Tami Tharp, a barbering instructor, said she doesn’t
know what to expect.  The prison barber shop has 22 chairs and photos of inmate
“graduating classes” on the wall -- 99 percent of inmates pass
their barber’s exam, she said. Tharp said she hopes a new owner
recognizes the value of paying for such a training program
should the prison be sold.  Five vendors have toured the prisons, Janes said, including
Corrections Corp. of America Inc. and  Geo Group Inc. (GEO)  of  Boca
Raton ,  Florida , which together generated $2.95 billion in
revenue last year, according to company filings. Steve Owen, a
spokesman for Nashville-based Corrections Corp., and Pablo E. Paez, a spokesman for Geo Group, declined to comment on the Ohio
deal because bidding hasn’t closed.  The industry’s growth during the past three decades belies
opponents’ arguments, Owen said in a telephone interview from
 Tennessee .  “If we don’t operate safe, secure facilities, and we don’t
provide the cost savings that are expected, there’s no reason
for government to continue to partner with our industry,” Owen
said.  ‘Yard Sale’  Still, Democratic lawmakers, including Representative Matt Lundy of Elyria, question whether Ohio is making a wise move.  “The buyer wins and the taxpayers lose when we sell in the
middle of a recession,” Lundy said during press conference last
month, calling the move “a yard sale.”  Selling assets for “one-time” money is a mistake,
 Louisiana  Treasurer John Kennedy said. He opposed a plan by
Republican Governor Bobby Jindal to sell three prisons to raise
$90 million, a proposal the Legislature didn’t approve.  “A junkie can sell his TV or his stereo or his iPod and
generate money for his next fix,” Kennedy, also a Republican,
said in a telephone interview from  Baton Rouge , Louisiana. “But
if he’s going to ever get well, he needs to face his
addiction.”  Stepping Aside  Ohio’s alternative is closing prisons and sending thousands
of inmates out of state, said Gary C. Mohr, director of the
Department of Rehabilitation and Correction.  Mohr worked for three decades in the state correctional
system and spent the past 5 1/2 years in the private-prison
industry, most recently as managing director for Corrections
Corp. Janes is handling the bids to avoid ethical questions, he
said.  Ohio’s private lockups will be part of a “a blended
system” with the same standards as state institutions, Mohr
said. Ohio law requires private prisons to produce savings of at
least 5 percent compared with a comparable public facility.  An April  study  by the  Arizona  Corrections Department
concluded that the daily per-capita cost for medium-custody
private facilities was $53.02, higher than the state cost of
$48.42 after adjustments for medical payments. Unlike private
contractors, the state “is required to provide medical and
mental health services to inmates regardless of the severity of
their condition,” the report said.  A 2008  report  by the  Florida Office of Program Policy
Analysis and Government Accountability  said the state didn’t
“ensure that the private prisons house inmates requiring
comparable levels of health and mental-health care.”  Paying a Premium  A  study  by Cleveland-based  Policy Matters Ohio  this year
questioned the accuracy of state calculations for its two
privately operated prisons, which are among those for sale. The
savings appear to fall below 5 percent in some years, and
taxpayers may have paid more to run  Lake Erie Correctional
Facility  in Conneaut in fiscal 2006 and 2007 than had state run
it itself, the study said.  In its new deal, Ohio will use the actual cost to run
prisons to determine savings, while preventing the “cherry-
picking” of inmates, Mohr said.  Good intentions won’t be enough, the ACLU’s Brickner said.  “You can put as many safeguards as you want, but it’s
never going to change that singular fact that private prisons
have to make money, and they will cut corners and skirt around
the rules as much as they possibly can,” he said.  Mohr pledged that Ohio would be well served.  “I’ve been in most correctional systems in the  United
States , and I understand that there can be issues,” Mohr said.
“I am not going to allow those issues to be apparent in this
state.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  