-- 
KB Home Falls Most in More Than Two Years on Wider Second-Quarter Loss

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-06-29T20:58:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/kb-home-reports-wider-quarterly-loss-as-orders-decline-in-housing-slump.html
KB Home (KBH) , the Los Angeles-based
homebuilder that targets first-time buyers, fell the most in
more than two years in  New York  trading after it reported a
wider quarterly loss and said it may explore ways to raise cash.  The net loss for the second quarter ended May 31 was $68.5
million, or 89 cents a share, compared with a loss of $30.7
million, or 40 cents, a year earlier, the company said today in
a statement. Analysts predicted a loss of 33 cents a share, the
average of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  U.S. homebuilders are struggling as unemployment close to 9
percent and a glut of discounted foreclosures reduce demand for
new properties. KB Home is seeking to boost revenue by acquiring
land and opening new communities. The company added 60
developments in the first half of the year and plans to start
another 45 to 50 in the second half, Chief Executive Officer
 Jeffrey Mezger  said in a conference call with analysts.  “The results were much worse than expected,”  Vicki Bryan ,
an analyst in New York for debt research firm Gimme Credit LLC,
said in an interview. “What’s really disturbing is that the
company is spending its dwindling cash on land even if it means
tapping the capital market and selling stock. That sounds like
desperation and it’s got the market spooked.”  KB Home fell $1.84, or 15 percent, to $10.08 as of 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange Composite trading. It was the
biggest one-day drop since September 2008. The shares have lost
25 percent this year, compared with a 1.9 percent decline in the
12-member Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index.  Capital Markets  The company is evaluating whether to tap capital markets,
by selling stock, issuing bonds or “other options that are
relating to bank lines,” Chief Financial Officer Jeff Kaminski
said on the conference call. He said he doesn’t see an
“urgency” on liquidity.  KB Home’s second-quarter revenue decreased 27 percent from
a year earlier to $271.7 million and deliveries fell 29 percent
to 1,265. The average selling price increased 3 percent from a
year ago to $213,400. Net orders dropped 11 percent to 1,998.  The loss included inventory impairments and land option
contract abandonments of $20.6 million, as well as costs of
$14.6 million related to the company’s investment in a
development in Henderson,  Nevada .  U.S.  Home Prices   Home prices fell 4 percent in April from a year earlier,
the biggest drop since November 2009, according to the S&P/Case-
Shiller index of property values in 20 U.S. cities. Sales of new
houses fell 2.1 percent in May, the first decrease in three
months, the Commerce Department said June 23.  Mezger said he expects sequential quarterly increases in
deliveries and revenue for the rest of the year.  “Uncertainty and caution about the economy are keeping
many qualified homebuyers from entering the market,” he said in
the statement. “We believe the current housing market
conditions will likely continue until there are meaningful and
sustained improvements in job growth and  consumer confidence .”  In a separate statement today, KB Home said it agreed to
buy land for 11 new developments in  San Antonio  from Fieldstone
Homes, a closely held builder based in  Irvine ,  California . Terms
of the deal were not disclosed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 