-- 
KBC Said to Seek First-Round Bids of About $3.6 Billion for Polish Units

-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-06-29T16:23:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/kbc-said-to-seek-first-round-bids-of-about-3-6-billion-for-polish-units.html
KBC Groep NV (KBC) , Belgium’s biggest bank
and insurer by market value, is seeking offers of about 2.5
billion euros ($3.6 billion) for its stake in  Poland ’s  Kredyt
Bank SA (KRB)  and insurance unit Warta SA, two people with knowledge
of the matter said.  The Brussels-based company, which is kicking off a first
round of bidding, may also sell the business in parts, one of
the people said, declining to be identified because the
discussions are confidential. No decision has been made on the
sale and a timetable will depend on market conditions, the
people said.  KBC, the recipient of 7 billion euros in Belgian government
rescue funds, is disposing of units to repay the state and gain
European Union approval for the bailout. The company has put its
private bank up for sale again, after an agreement to sell it to
Hinduja Group was blocked by the Luxembourg regulator, and has
other units scheduled for divestment.  “KBC is currently busy implementing the strategic plan it
has submitted to the European Commission,” said KBC spokeswoman
Viviane Huybrecht in Brussels. “We do not wish to comment on
rumors.”  Erste, Vienna Insurance  KBC has an 80 percent stake in Warsaw-based Kredyt Bank,
data compiled by Bloomberg show, valued at about 3.7 billion
zloty ($1.3 billion), based on the company’s current market
capitalization. Warta has 6,000 salespeople across Poland and is
one of the largest insurance companies in the country, according
to its website, offering auto, property, personal and travel
insurance.  Vienna Insurance Group, eastern  Europe ’s biggest insurer,
would look at KBC’s Warta if it was being sold, Chief Executive
Officer Guenter Geyer told reporters in May.  Erste Group Bank
AG (EBS) , eastern Europe’s second-biggest lender, has Poland “on its
list” and will seize any suitable opportunity if it arises, CEO
Andreas Treichl said last month.  Erste isn’t interested in KBC’s stake in Kredyt Bank, Hana Cygonkova, a spokeswoman for the Vienna-based bank, said by e-
mail. “We aren’t aware of Warta being sold, but if it is we
will look at it,” Alexander Jedlicka, a spokesman for Vienna
Insurance, said by phone.  Poland’s banking market is one of the most sought-after in
the former Communist part of Europe. Banco Santander SA, Spain’s
biggest bank, agreed to buy the country’s fifth-biggest lender,
 Bank Zachodni WBK SA (BZW) , from  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  for 2.9
billion euros in September.  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,
eastern Europe’s third biggest lender, in February agreed to buy
 EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB) ’s Polish business for 490 million euros
in a transaction that will make it the country’s sixth-largest
player.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  