-- 
Kenyan Inflation Accelerates in June, Boosting Expectation of Higher Rates

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-06-29T09:53:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/kenyan-inflation-accelerates-in-june-boosting-expectation-of-higher-rates.html
Kenyan inflation accelerated to the
highest in more than two years in June, cementing expectations
for an increase in interest rates at the  central bank’s  monetary
policy meeting next month.  The inflation rate climbed for the eighth straight month,
to 14.5 percent from 13 percent, the Nairobi-based  Kenya
National Bureau of Statistics  said in an e-mailed statement
today. Prices rose 1.2 percent in the month.  Accelerating inflation adds pressure on the central bank to
raise interest rates to help curb prices and stabilize the
currency. Two increases totaling half a percentage point this
year have brought the benchmark to 6.25 percent. The monetary
policy committee is due to hold its next meeting in late July.  “The benchmark interest rate should follow faster
inflation,” Anne Musyoka, a fixed-income trader at Tsavo
Securities, said by phone from the capital, Nairobi, before the
announcement.  Kenya  has surpassed its 5 percent inflation target
every month since January.  The jump in prices will spur investors to demand higher
returns on government debt, Andrew Mwangangi, head of fixed-
income at Kestrel Capital East Africa Ltd. in Nairobi, said by
phone today.  Kenya sold three-month bills to yield 9 percent at the last
auction on June 24. The gap between that rate and inflation is
“a concern for fixed-income traders,” Mwangangi said. The
yield on five-year notes climbed to 12.5 percent on June 23,
from 7.64 percent in January.  Food, Fuel Prices  Grain-price increases due to drought and more expensive
imported fuel have fanned inflation in East Africa’s biggest
economy, with a weakening currency also pushing prices higher.  Prices of food and non-alcoholic drinks rose 22.5 percent
in the 12 months through June, while transport, which includes
petrol costs, surged 22.7 percent, the statistics agency said.  Kenya’s central bank has blamed speculation for a 12
percent decline in the shilling against the dollar this year
that makes it  Africa ’s second-worst performing currency, after
the shilling in neighboring  Uganda .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  