-- 
Kenya Tightens Monetary Policy to Slow Inflation, Curb Shilling Volatility

-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n   a n d   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-06-29T12:08:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/kenya-tightens-monetary-policy-to-slow-inflation-curb-shilling-volatility.html
Kenya’s  central bank  raised its
overnight lending rate to the banks as it attempts to rein in
inflationary expectations and curb speculative trade in the
shilling.  The Central Bank of Kenya will charge 8 percent on
overnight loans and review the rate every day at 9 a.m.,
according to an e-mailed statement from the Nairobi-based bank.
It previously applied the Central Bank Rate, currently at 6.25
percent, to the loans. The bank also blocked the use of funds
borrowed from the overnight window to trade in the foreign-
exchange market.  “This further tightening of the  monetary policy  stance
will curtail second-round effects arising from fuel and maize
prices and exchange-rate volatility that have been fueling
inflationary expectations,” the bank said.  Kenya ’s inflation rate climbed for the eighth consecutive
month to 14.5 percent in June as food and fuel prices increased,
the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said today. The shilling
has declined 10 percent against the dollar this year, making it
Africa’s second-worst performing currency, after neighboring
 Uganda ’s, according to Bloomberg data.  “This decision is expected to address the recent wild
swings in the local currency, which was largely due to arbitrage
and speculative trading,” Fred Moturi, a fixed-income dealer at
Nairobi-based Sterling Investment Bank Ltd., said in a phone
interview today.  The shilling strengthened 0.4 percent to 89.80 per dollar
by 1:23 p.m. in Nairobi. It closed at 90.15 yesterday.  The central bank raised its key interest rate by a quarter
point twice this year, in March and May, from a record low of
5.75 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 