-- 
Buyout Funds Revive Woori Stake Sale After Withdrawal of South Korea Banks

-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-06-30T02:09:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/korea-gets-three-initial-bids-for-woori-stake-holding-companies-refrain.html
South Korean buyouts firms made
preliminary bids for a stake in Woori Finance Holdings Co.,
reviving a $5.9 billion sale that faced collapse after banking
groups withdrew.  Private-equity funds Vogo Investment, MBK Partners Ltd. and
TStone Corp. submitted letters of intent, according to a person
with direct knowledge of the sale who declined to be identified
as the matter is confidential. Grace Han, director of finance
and operations of Seoul-based Vogo, declined to comment, as did
officials at MBK Partners and TStone.  President  Lee Myung Bak ’s plan to privatize South Korean
banks rescued during the Asian financial crisis lost momentum
after an earlier attempt to sell Woori failed. The latest effort
comes as U.S. private-equity firm  Lone Star Funds  struggles to
offload its stake in  Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  and analysts ask
whether local funds have the financial firepower to buy Woori.  “There remains the question of how successful the private-
equity funds could be in raising funds for the acquisition,”
said Koo Kyung Hwe, a banking analyst at Seoul-based Hyundai
Securities Co. “An acquisition by a fund will come under close
scrutiny by the regulators.”  Korea Deposit Insurance Corp. didn’t disclose names of the
bidders in its e-mailed statement yesterday. Bidders were asked
to submit letters of intent for a minimum 30 percent stake by
then, the Public Fund Oversight Committee said on May 17.  Sold in Package  Woori, whose initial sale collapsed for lack of investor
interest in December, will be sold in a package with affiliates
including Woori Investment & Securities Co. and provincial bank
units, the committee said in May.  Woori rose 0.4 percent to 13,850 won as of 11:04 a.m. in
Seoul trading. The 61-member Korea Financial Industry index was
unchanged. The 57 percent stake is valued at 6.3 trillion won
($5.9 billion) based on yesterday’s share price.  The sale process hit a fresh snag last week after the
 Financial Services Commission  dropped a proposal to ease rules
that would have allowed financial holding firms to own less than
95 percent of a rival after acquiring a stake. The FSC had
sought to allow holding companies to own as little as 50 percent
of rivals that have been bailed out by taxpayers.  Woori was created in 2001 as a holding company for banks
that the government rescued following the Asian financial crisis
in 1997 to 1998, as part of a push to make the financial
industry more competitive. The government spent 12.8 trillion
won to aid Woori and has recouped 5.3 trillion won so far
through block sales of shares.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Samsung Securities Co. and Daewoo
Securities Co. were hired in September to help Korea Deposit
sell its stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  