-- 
Nadal Still Concerned About Foot Ahead of Wimbledon Semifinal With Murray

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-29T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/nadal-still-concerned-about-foot-ahead-of-wimbledon-semifinal-with-murray.html
Defending champion  Rafael Nadal 
remains concerned about a foot injury as he prepares to play
Britain’s  Andy Murray  tomorrow in the semifinals at Wimbledon.  “My foot is not fine,” Nadal said yesterday in a news
conference after he beat  Mardy Fish , the last American in the
tournament, 6-3, 6-3, 5-7, 6-4.  The left-hander said he played Fish after getting treated
with an anesthetic that numbed the pain in his left foot. He was
injured during a fourth-round match against 2009 U.S. Open
winner Juan Martin del Potro of  Argentina .  “We are in the quarterfinals of Wimbledon,” the 25-year-old
Nadal said. “It’s an emergency, so I had to play.”  After beating del Potro, the top-ranked Spaniard got an MRI
scan because he thought he may have broken something. Although
Nadal said the scan showed no serious injury, he is in pain when
he plays and will use the anesthetic for his next match against
Murray. It numbs the spot for about five hours, he said.  “I cannot run in perfect conditions” without the
medication, Nadal said.  The women’s semifinals are today at the All England Club in
London. Petra Kvitova, a Czech who is playing in her second
straight Wimbledon semifinal, starts on Centre Court against
 Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus. Seeded fourth, Azarenka is the
highest seed left in the women’s draw.  Maria Sharapova , a
Russian who won Wimbledon at 17 in 2004, plays German wild-card
Sabine Lisicki.  Title Favorite  Nadal, a 10-time Grand Slam singles champion, is the
favorite to win the title after six-time champion  Roger Federer 
lost to France’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in the quarterfinals.  Tsonga’s next opponent will be Novak Djokovic. The second-
seeded Serb defeated 18-year-old qualifier Bernard Tomic of
Australia 6-2, 3-6, 6-3, 7-5, to reach his fifth straight Grand
Slam semifinal.  “I’m delighted to be through,” the 24-year-old Djokovic
said in a televised interview, after beating his occasional
practice partner. “He’s such an unpredictable player. He didn’t
have anything to lose.”  A win against Tsonga will guarantee Djokovic the No. 1
ranking on the ATP World Tour, now held by Nadal, after
Wimbledon. Djokovic has only lost once this season, against
Federer in the semifinals of the  French Open .  Murray, trying to become the first British man to win
Wimbledon since  Fred Perry  in 1936, beat  Spain ’s Feliciano Lopez
6-3, 6-4, 6-4.  Semifinal Repeat  Just like last year, Murray plays Nadal for a place in the
final.  “I believe I can win against him,” Murray said in a news
conference. “I had chances last year.”  Federer, playing in an Open-era record 29th consecutive
quarterfinal, was 178-0 before yesterday when winning the first
two sets in a Grand Slam match. Tsonga, the No. 12 seed from
 France , came back to win 3-6, 6-7 (3-7), 6-4, 6-4, 6-4 on Centre
Court.  After the defeat of Federer, who had been the 13-8 favorite
to win the title at U.K. bookmaker Ladbrokes Plc, Nadal is now
the 5-4 favorite to retain the championship. That means a
successful $4 bet would return $5 plus the original wager.  Nadal said he was “sorry” for Federer.  ‘Good Tennis’  “He was playing really good tennis in  Roland Garros  three
weeks ago, four weeks ago, and during this tournament I saw him
play really, really well,” said Nadal, who beat Federer in the
French Open final this month. “But when you play against a
player like Tsonga that has this fantastic serve, you are under
pressure all the time.”  Federer failed to reach the Wimbledon finals last year for
the first time since 2002, beaten in the quarterfinals by
eventual runner-up Tomas Berdych of the  Czech Republic . At 29
the oldest man in the quarterfinals, Federer was trying to equal
the record of seven All England Club titles held by William
Renshaw and  Pete Sampras .  “It’s always a tough match to lose,” Federer said at a
press conference. “Jo played great. Really from start to
finish, I don’t remember seeing a break point after I broke him
in the first game.”  Tsonga never allowed Federer a break point in the final
four sets.  Tsonga, 26, has now won two of his six matches against the
Swiss right-hander, and reached his first semifinal at the All
England Club. The Frenchman was runner-up to the No. 4 seeded Murray at a grass-court warmup event at Queen’s Club in  London .  Federer dropped the third set as Tsonga started to attack
his serve and found the range on ground strokes. In the third
game of the fourth set, Tsonga broke with a forehand winner.  Fifth Set  Serving at 5-4, Tsonga forced a fifth set with his 14th
ace. In the final set, Federer lost serve in the first game as
he dumped a forehand into the net. Tsonga held for 2-0 and
continued to dictate with forehand winners.  Serving for the semifinals as the crowd cheered, Tsonga won
on his first match point as Federer’s backhand return sailed
long.  “It’s just amazing, I’m so happy,” Tsonga said in a
televised interview. “He’s the biggest champion in my sport,
he’s achieved a lot of things.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 