-- 
Naira, at Near Two-Month High, Could Gain 1.5% in Weeks, BNP Paribas Says

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-06-29T08:34:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/naira-at-almost-2-month-high-may-gain-1-5-in-weeks-bnp-paribas-says.html
Nigeria ’s naira, trading at an
almost two-month high against the dollar, may appreciate as much
as 1.5 percent “in the coming weeks” after the central bank
lifted curbs on inflows and restricted sales to foreign-exchange
bureau operators, according to BNP Paribas SA.  “Although the naira is trading close to its highs for
year, the reforms could help it to advance another 1 percent to
1.5 percent in the coming weeks,” BNP Paribas strategists led
by London-based Bartosz Pawlowski wrote in a report today. “The
central bank also announced a cap on the amount of U.S. dollars
that Nigerian banks can sell to foreign-exchange bureaux. This
is another change aimed at reducing the capital outflow and
money-laundering.”  The currency of  Africa ’s top oil producer reached 153.9 per
dollar in the interbank market today, the strongest level since
May 5, before erasing gains and weakening 0.4 percent to 154.6
by 9:21 a.m. in Lagos, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The currency may strengthen to 145 per dollar by the end of
the year after the  Central Bank of Nigeria  lifts a requirement
for foreign investors to hold local-currency investments in
 government securities  for at least a year, starting July 1,
Governor Lamido Sanusi said June 23. “Positive  interest rates ”
will contribute to the gain, he said.  Authorized dealers can sell a  maximum  of $250,000 to
foreign-exchange bureau operators a week, the Abuja-based
central bank said in a statement June 24. Operators are only
allowed to purchase from one authorized dealer a week, it said.  The naira may strengthen to 153 against the dollar by year-
end and 150 per dollar by the end of 2012, Morgan Stanley
economists Andrea Masia and Michael Kafe said yesterday. “A
surplus inflow of funds should be supportive of naira to
appreciate over the next two years,” the Johannesburg-based
analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  