-- 
NBA Owners Authorize Lockout of Players in Absence of New Labor Agreement

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-06-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/nba-owners-authorize-lock-out-of-players-in-absence-of-new-labor-agreement.html
National Basketball Association team
owners authorized a lockout of the league’s 450 players if a new
labor accord isn’t in place when the existing collective
bargaining agreement expires tomorrow.  The 30 owners made the decision during almost five hours of
meetings at a Dallas hotel yesterday, NBA Deputy Commissioner
Adam Silver told reporters.  The owners’ 11-member labor-relations committee can enact
the lockout when the labor accord with the  National Basketball
Players Association  ends tomorrow night.  “The owners authorized the labor relations committee to do
whatever steps were necessary to effectuate a new collective
bargaining agreement and so that committee has the full
authority of all 30 teams to act in whatever way they deem
appropriate,” Silver said.  Further talks with the players’ union are scheduled for
tomorrow, NBA Commissioner  David Stern  told reporters. It was
the union’s choice not to meet today, he said.  “I sure would like to see us make a deal,” Stern said.
“Not making a deal should give everybody apprehension.”  With a work stoppage, the NBA would join the  National
Football League , which locked out its players in March following
the expiration of a labor contract. That dispute has continued
for more than three months, endangering training camps that
normally would begin in late July.  Without an agreement, the league is likely to lock the
players out on July 1, creating the third work stoppage in NBA
history.  $4.3 Billion Revenue  The sides disagree on how to split revenue from a league
that made about $4.3 billion last season. The NBA said in April
that it expected to lose $300 million during the season, with 22
of the league’s 30 franchises losing money. The union agreed
that owners lost money, saying that management’s estimates were
inflated.  Following the owners’ most recent 10-year proposal
disclosed by Stern, union Executive Director  Billy Hunter  said
under those terms the sides would be more than $7 billion apart.  The 2010-11 season was the most-viewed in history for  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC and ESPN as well as  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s TNT, the
league’s national television networks, according to the NBA.
Regular-season attendance of 21.3 million was the fifth-highest
in league history.  Only once, during the 1998-99 season, have NBA games been
lost to a work stoppage. Following an agreement in January 1999,
that season was shortened to 50 games from 82. The NBA also had
an off-season lockout in 1995 that lasted from July 1 to mid-
September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Soshnick  in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 