-- 
Nelson Mandela’s South African Legacy Is Threatened by Malema, Zille Says

-- B y   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n
-- 
2011-06-29T09:11:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/nelson-mandela-s-south-african-legacy-is-threatened-by-malema-zille-says.html
Julius Malema , the president of the
youth wing of  South Africa ’s ruling  African National Congress ,
may unravel  Nelson Mandela ’s legacy of a nonracial and inclusive
society, the leader of the country’s main opposition party said.  Malema, 30, who won a second term as head of the youth wing
on June 17, has repeatedly called for the nationalization of the
country’s mines, land and banks, which he says are controlled by
whites. He has also referred to opposition leaders in comments
that many see as racist and appeared in the country’s Equality
Court for singing a song dating from the fight against apartheid
that calls for the killing of Afrikaans farmers.  “His aim is to obliterate the historical compact we
achieved in the mid-1990s,”  Helen Zille , the leader of the
Democratic Alliance, said in an opinion piece in Johannesburg’s
Business Day newspaper today. “Malema’s vocal assault on
Mandela’s legacy (with the silent acquiescence of the party’s
senior leadership) has changed the ANC’s Brand.”  Mandela, who spent 27 years in jail for plotting against
the apartheid government, won a Nobel Peace prize for leading
South Africa from the brink of civil war to its first democratic
elections in 1994 by advocating reconciliation with the
country’s white minority. He served as the nation’s first
president and declined to run for a second term in 1999.  Malema “has, single-handedly, positioned the ANC as a
racial nationalist party, exclusive, uncompromising, insatiable
in its lust for power and impervious to other ideas,” she said.  Malema last week said that demanding that the black
majority benefits more from an economy controlled by whites
isn’t racist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Matthew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 