-- 
New York City Synagogue Bomb Plotters Are Sentenced to 25 Years in Prison

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-29T20:16:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/new-york-city-synagogue-bomb-plotters-are-sentenced-to-25-years-in-prison.html
Three men convicted of plotting to
blow up New York synagogues and to fire heat-seeking missiles at
U.S. military planes were sentenced to 25 years in prison.  U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in Manhattan handed
down punishments today against  James Cromitie , 45,  Onta
Williams , 35, and  David Williams , 30, who were found guilty in
October of crimes including conspiracy to use weapons of mass
destruction against the U.S. A fourth defendant,  Laguerre Payen ,
had his sentencing postponed pending a psychiatric evaluation.  The judge said Cromitie and his co-defendants were
“willing to kill and maim and destroy for money” and that any
affiliation they had with a cause or a need to send a political
message was “minor” compared with their desire for money.  “You were not political or religious martyrs,” McMahon
said. “You were thugs for hire, pure and simple. I am
nonetheless convinced a sentence of 25 years, a quarter of a
century behind bars, is sufficient to punish you for both what
happened and for what didn’t happen.”  The men were accused of planning to bomb the  Riverdale
Temple , a Reform synagogue in the Bronx section of  New York , and
the nearby  Riverdale Jewish Center , an Orthodox synagogue, in
May 2009. They also sought heat-seeking missiles to fire at
aircraft at the  Stewart Air National Guard  base in Newburgh, New
York, the U.S. said.  ‘Colossal’ Attack  Prosecutors sought life sentences for the three men, saying
they were career criminals and willing participants in a plot
organized by a government informant, Shahed Hussain, who was
posing as a member of the Pakistani terrorist organization
Laiksh-e-Mohammad.  “This would have been a colossal terrorist attack and the
fact that it was fake doesn’t matter,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
David Raskin said before sentencing today. “Because in their
minds it was real.”  The defense argued that the men were the victims of
entrapment, lured into the plan by a paid government informant
who gave them money for rent, food and car fare, and who
promised them $250,000 in cash, a BMW, vacations in  Puerto Rico 
and a barbershop.  Minor Crimes  “A 25-year sentence for Mr. Cromitie is greater than
necessary,” Kerry Lawrence, Cromitie’s lawyer, said before
sentencing. “The government located a disaffected individual
with a long history of minor crimes. What Mr. Cromitie said on
those tapes is really not who he is as a person.”  Susanne Brody, a lawyer for Onta Williams, asked McMahon to
sentence the men to penalties below the statutory minimum
required by the conviction on the charges involving anti-
aircraft missiles, argued that the FBI proposed the use of the
weapons in order to ensure that they were sentenced to at least
25 years in prison.  McMahon acknowledged that the government may have
introduced the missiles into the plot in order to ensure a
higher sentence, while rejecting Brody’s request. Defense
attorneys said they planned to appeal the case.  “The essence of what occurred here is that a government,
understandably zealous to protect its citizens from terrorism
came upon a man both bigoted and suggestible, one who was
incapable of committing an act of terrorism on his own,”
McMahon said. “It created acts of terrorism out of his
fantasies of bravado and bigotry, and then made those fantasies
come true.”  Not Violent  Cromitie, a Brooklyn native with two prior felony
convictions and 16 misdemeanor convictions for drug and
trespassing violations, apologized to his friends and family in
the courtroom and “everyone in the  United States ” before he
was sentenced. David Williams apologized to his family and
supporters, while Onta Williams, who turned 35 today, apologized
“to the people of Riverdale.”  “I am not a violent person,” Cromitie said. “I’ve never
been a terrorist and I never will be. Everyone in this courtroom
knows that. I got myself into this stupid mess. I know I said a
lot of stupid stuff.”  The judge told Cromitie that she agreed with the FBI’s
assessment of him as someone who “was unlikely to commit any
act of terrorism except as someone else’s tool.”  ‘Utterly Inept’  “I suspect that real terrorists would not have bothered
themselves with a person who was so utterly inept,” McMahon
said. “Only the government could have made a terrorist out of
Mr. Cromitie, whose buffoonery is positively Shakespearean in
scope.”  McMahon also rejected defense requests to recommend places
for the three men to be incarcerated near the New York City
metropolitan region that isn’t a maximum-security facility where
terrorists are kept, such as the so-called “supermax” prisons.  “Any recommendation I make would be ignored in any
event,” McMahon said.  The case is U.S. v. Cromitie, 09-cr-00558, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  