-- 
New York City Council Approves $66 Billion 2012 Budget Restoring Teachers

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-06-29T18:33:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/new-york-city-council-approves-66-billion-2012-budget-restoring-some-cuts.html
New York’s City Council approved a
$66 billion fiscal 2012 budget that restores some funding cuts
to schools, libraries and social programs as federal and state
aid decline and employee salary and benefit obligations rise.  Council members in the most-populous U.S. city voted 49 to
1 today to ratify a June 24 agreement between Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and Council Speaker  Christine Quinn  that benefited
from $60 million in teacher-union concessions and higher-than-
expected attrition to save about 4,100 educators from dismissal.  The budget uses a $3.6 billion surplus from the current
year, $700 million from a Retiree Health Benefit Trust and $1
billion in trims to citywide outlays to spend 4.6 percent more
than last year’s $63.1 billion. Higher pension and benefit
expenses and at least $3 billion less in state and federal aid
forced the city to reduce services. It still faces $5 billion
deficits in 2013 and 2014, Bloomberg has said.  “Even in these difficult times, New Yorkers expect us to
protect the most vital services without putting our future
economic stability at risk,” Quinn said in a statement before
the vote.  Quinn, a Manhattan Democrat, was credited by United
Federation of Teachers President Michael Mulgrew with forging
the deal that helped save the teachers’ jobs. Charles Barron, a
Democrat from  Brooklyn , voted no. He criticized cuts to summer
youth jobs and day care and described the plan as a “budget for
the rich.”  Teacher Jobs  Some 2,600 teaching positions of the 75,000 in the largest
U.S. public-school system may be eliminated through attrition,
and about 1,000 city workers in non-uniform jobs other than
education may be fired in the fiscal year that begins July 1,
Bloomberg has said.  The teacher union concessions included a moratorium on
study sabbaticals and an easing of rules permitting unassigned
permanent teachers to act as substitutes.  The budget also restored 20 firehouses slated for closure
in the budget Bloomberg proposed in May. It also provides more
money for libraries, child-care and senior centers, Bloomberg
said June 24 when he and Quinn announced the deal.  The spending plan includes no new taxes. Revenue
projections have increased by about $170 million since Bloomberg
proposed his spending plan, the mayor’s office said in a news
release.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  