-- 
Christie Loses 2nd Term Support as Residents Oppose Cuts

-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-06-29T16:53:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/new-jersey-s-christie-loses-support-for-second-term-over-budget-slashing.html
More than half of New Jersey
residents say they wouldn’t back Governor  Chris Christie  for a
second term, disapproving of his choices on a range of policy
and personal issues, from killing a commuter tunnel to using a
state-police helicopter to attend his son’s baseball game.  Teachers, whose union Christie has targeted on tenure, pay
and benefits, received a far higher favorable rating, 76
percent, than the first-term Republican. His favorable rating
was 43 percent, according to a Bloomberg New Jersey poll
conducted June 20-23.  “Teachers I know got laid off because of him,” Fred
Lavin, 61, a poll respondent from Toms River who is
troubleshooter for an electronics company, said in a June 24
telephone interview. “He’s not in favor of the average working
person.”  Fifty-eight percent of  New Jersey  residents disagreed with
Christie’s decision not to extend a surcharge on the state’s
highest-earning taxpayers, a measure that was revived for a vote
this week by the Democratic-led Legislature. A majority, 51
percent, opposed his October cancellation of an $8.7 billion
rail tunnel to  New York , and 70 percent disagreed with his
traveling via helicopter to his teenage son’s baseball game.  Christie campaigned on a theme of fiscal soundness, and in
his first year cut $10 billion of spending, including a $3
billion pension payment and money for schools and cities. The
governor and Republicans reimbursed the state about $3,400 for
two trips aboard the chopper.  School Cuts  The governor’s education-spending reductions were opposed
by 65 percent and favored by 31 percent, according to the survey
of 1,302 adults conducted for Bloomberg by Selzer & Co., a  Des
Moines , Iowa-based public-opinion research firm. The margin of
error is plus or minus 2.7 percentage points.  The austerity trend continued yesterday, when Christie
signed legislation to raise government workers’ pension and
health-care contributions, increase the minimum  retirement age 
to 65 from 62 and freeze cost-of-living adjustments to help
address a $53.9 billion retirement-fund deficit. The moves will
save $132 billion over 30 years, he said.  “They are sort of saying, ‘Look, you’re too much on our
side,’” J. Ann Selzer, the polling company president, said by
telephone June 27. “It just feels as though Christie misread
the public on education or believed that he had to go that far
in cutting the budget. Even if it’s the latter, he didn’t
rhetorically sell it to his audience properly. They’re not with
him.”  Disapproval Climbs  The governor was viewed unfavorably by 53 percent of those
polled. The results were in line with recent surveys that showed
growing disapproval of Christie. In the Bloomberg poll, 45
percent said their view of him has worsened since he took office
in January 2010. Just 25 percent said their opinion of him has
improved, while 29 percent said it hasn’t changed.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, didn’t
immediately return an e-mail seeking comment on the poll.  Christie often says he was elected to do a tough job, and
he is governing as though he won’t win re-election. In the
November 2013 election for governor, 51 percent of respondents
indicated they wouldn’t pick Christie -- a turnaround for a
group that said it voted for him in 2009 over Democratic
incumbent  Jon Corzine , 37 percent to 31 percent.  Teachers Union  Christie declared 2011 his year of education changes, and
the agenda has met challenges. New Jersey’s  Supreme Court  ruled
May 24 that he went too far with cuts in the poorest school
districts, and ordered the addition of $500 million starting
next month.  The 200,000-member  New Jersey Education Association , the
state’s largest teachers union, has funded an ad campaign to
criticize the governor, who called its leaders “political
thugs.” Support for the union was similar to Christie, at 44
percent, the poll found.  Christie’s education reductions were strongly opposed by 48
percent overall. The issue split in suburban households, where
62 percent of mothers and 48 percent of fathers strongly
opposed. Overall, strong opposition was registered in 68 percent
of households with public employees, and 60 percent of union
households.  In terms of which side they believe Christie is on, 75
percent overall in the poll said he stands with taxpayers, and 9
percent put him with teachers. The governor was said to support
property taxpayers over the state’s 1.4 million public-school
students, 65 percent to 17 percent.  Mothers, Fathers  The survey showed 68 percent believe Christie stands with
the business community compared with 22 percent who said he
sides with “ordinary New Jerseyans.”  In the suburbs, where Christie proved more popular than
Corzine in 2009, parents now disapprove of the Republican, 57
percent to 38 percent.  Mothers in those towns reported voting for Corzine over
Christie, 34 percent to 32 percent. Now, 61 percent said they
wouldn’t vote for the Republican. Fathers in those towns chose
Christie over Corzine, 43 percent to 26 percent. Now, 51 percent
said they wouldn’t vote for Christie.  State government employees had a 52 percent favorable
rating. Fifty-one percent of respondents supported Christie’s
proposal to require workers to pay for 30 percent of the cost of
their health-insurance premiums. That plan received higher
marks, 57 percent, from suburban fathers, and lower, 45 percent,
among suburban mothers. In households with government workers,
68 percent were opposed.  “We really value the teachers,” Camille Bareham, 43, a
poll respondent in Pittstown, said in a June 24 telephone
interview. “I’m not fond of unions but I really feel the
teachers needed something better.”  Teacher Firings  Bareham, who is studying for a master’s degree in health
administration, said her feelings about the governor started to
erode when some talented teachers left her children’s schools.
“I think there could have been some way around it.”  Respondents’ answers fell along party lines, with 44
percent of Republicans saying they have a very favorable image
of Christie. One in five Republicans also said their opinion of
the governor has worsened. Among Democrats, 56 percent said they
had a very unfavorable opinion. Independents -- who represent 47
percent of the state’s registered voters -- rated Christie
unfavorable to favorable, 51 percent to 44 percent.  Christie is the state’s first elected Republican governor
of the 21st century. He has cast New Jersey as a national role
model for states with a collective $103 billion in initial
deficits heading into fiscal 2012, according to the  Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities , a nonprofit group in  Washington 
that focuses on issues affecting lower-income Americans.  Budget Deadline  Lawmakers in Trenton face a June 30 deadline to pass a
budget reconciling Christie’s $29.4 billion spending road map
and its own $30.6 billion proposal.  A plan from the Democrats includes $1.1 billion more for
schools. A separate bill projects another $550 million from a
revived levy on residents earning $1 million or more, which
would raise the top rate to 10.75 percent from 8.9 percent for
two years. All of the increase would go to education.  A similar tax surcharge lapsed at the end of 2009 under
Corzine. Christie vetoed legislation last year reinstating that
tax, and has said he would reject any new levies this year.  Stephanie Bertono, 25, a poll respondent from Old Bridge,
said in an interview that she has been looking for a retailing
job since becoming unemployed last year. The increased pension
and health-care charges will force her and her boyfriend, a
police officer, to cut their budget further. As a result, she
said, she’s no longer a Christie fan.  “I was a supporter of his when he ran for governor but
recently, I don’t support what he’s doing with the unions,”
Bertono told a reporter by telephone June 24. “I don’t think
it’s fair to all these people that took jobs with these
pensions. People are living paycheck to paycheck as it is with
gas prices so high, and the economy being so bad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  