-- 
New Jersey’s Civil Union Law Is Challenged as Illegal by Gay Rights Group

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-06-29T18:57:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/new-jersey-s-state-civil-union-law-challenged-as-illegal-by-rights-group.html
New Jersey ’s civil union law was
challenged by  Lambda Legal , a national gay rights advocacy
group, which said it sued over claims the statute violates both
the state and federal constitutions.  The statute “singles out” lesbians and gay men for
“inferior treatment” on the basis of their sexual orientation,
according to the complaint filed on behalf of Garden State
Equality and seven same-sex couples. Bloomberg News obtained a
copy of the complaint filed today in state court in Trenton, New
Jersey, from Lambda Legal.  “The constitutional guarantee of equality under the law
does not stop midway through the Lincoln Tunnel,” Hayley
Gorenberg, Lambda Legal’s deputy legal director, said in an e-
mailed statement. “New Jersey’s same-sex couples have been
stuck in a limbo caused by the confusion and indignity of living
with an inferior status.”  The complaint follows  New York ’s June 24 decision to allow
gay couples the right to wed. New York became the sixth U.S.
state to legalize same-sex marriage after the Republican-
controlled Senate approved the measure in a 33-29 vote.  New Jersey’s Senate rejected a gay marriage bill backed by
then-Governor  Jon Corzine  in January 2010. Current Governor
 Chris Christie  has said he is “not a fan” of same-sex marriage
and wouldn’t follow in New York’s footsteps.  ‘Really Clear’  During his monthly radio call-in show last night on WKXW-FM
in Ewing, New Jersey, Christie vowed to defend the state’s
statute as it is now.  “I made my position really clear during the election, that
I believe marriage is between one man and one woman, and should
remain so, but that I am also in favor of strengthening civil
unions and working with groups like Garden State Equality and
others,” Christie said on the radio show.  “As long as they’re reasonable, I’ll be supportive of
it,” he said. “I don’t want same-sex couples to be deprived of
legal rights.”  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, declined to
comment today on Lambda Legal’s complaint.  New Jersey’s civil unions fall short and fail to give same-
sex couples protections equal to those given to married people,
Lambda Legal said in its statement.  ‘Lack of Recognition’  Same-sex couples “face a persistent and widespread lack of
recognition of their rights in civic and commercial dealings,”
Lambda Legal said in its complaint. “Their separate status is a
badge that requires that they reveal their sexual orientation
whether they wish to or not.”  The state’s current civil union law doesn’t guarantee
federal protection or equal treatment by insurance providers,
hospitals and government and private-sector services often fail
to recognize civil unions as a family or legal structure,
according to the complaint.  At a news conference today in Trenton, Daniel Weiss, 46, a
lawyer from Asbury Park, New Jersey, and one of the plaintiffs,
said staff at a New York City hospital refused to allow him to
make crucial decisions when his partner, John Grant, was struck
by a car in October. As Grant’s brain pressure increased, the
nearest relative made a four-hour journey from  Delaware  to sign
paperwork for surgery.  ‘Endure the Indignity’  “At the moment that we needed civil-union laws the most to
provide equality, it failed for us miserably,” Weiss said.
“Nobody should have to endure the indignity that we did, the
failure to recognize our relationship, the lack of compassion
that I received.”  Grant, who was controller of the Michael J. Fox Foundation
for Parkinson’s Research, is continuing to recover. The couple,
who had a civil-union ceremony in 2009, married in  Connecticut 
after the accident.  This is Lambda Legal’s second attempt to obtain marriage
equality in the state. The group sued in 2002 on behalf of seven
New Jersey couples. A state  Supreme Court  ruling in that case in
2006 led to the passage of New Jersey’s civil union law that
same year. The state began issuing civil union licenses to
lesbian and gay couples in February 2007, Lambda Legal said in
its statement today.  Iowa ,  Vermont ,  New Hampshire ,  Massachusetts  and Connecticut
issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples, as does the
 District of Columbia , according to the Washington-based Human
Rights Campaign, which advocates equal rights for gay, bisexual
and transgender people. New York and  Maryland  recognize such
marriages from other jurisdictions.  The case is Garden State Equality v. Dow, Superior Court of
New Jersey Law Division, Mercer County (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 