-- 
News Corp. Calls It Quits on Myspace With Sale of Site to Specific Media

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-06-30T01:36:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/news-corp-said-to-agree-to-35-million-sale-of-myspace-to-specific-media.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  agreed to sell Myspace to
Specific Media Inc. for a fraction of what it paid six years
ago, ending its efforts to turn around the money-losing social
networking business.  News Corp. will receive $35 million, including a 5 percent
stake in Specific Media, according to a person with knowledge of
the situation who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly. Specific
Media announced the sale in a statement today, without providing
the terms.  The accord rids News Corp. Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch  of a website that lost its lead in social
networking to Facebook Inc. after being acquired in 2005 in a
$580 million deal. The company had sought about $100 million for
Myspace after Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey  said in
February he wanted a deal completed by the June 30 end of the
parent company’s fiscal year.  “It gets Myspace off their books finally, which has a
certain value,” said  Michael Gartenberg , an analyst at Gartner
Inc., a Stamford, Connecticut-based research and advisory firm.
“This shows how fast things change on the Web and how quickly
$580 million in value can vanish.”  Myspace CEO  Mike Jones  will depart after a two-month
transition that includes “significant” job cuts, he told
employees today in a memo. News Corp., based in  New York , will
own a stake in the online advertising company after the sale is
complete, Specific Media said in the statement.  Timberlake Role  “Social media has forever changed how people find and
interact with entertainment,” Tim Vanderhook, CEO of  Irvine ,
California-based Specific Media, said in an interview. “There
are few names that have the international prominence of
Myspace.”  For Specific Media, Myspace’s 34.9 million monthly visitors
provide an audience for its network of online ads. The company
was formed in 1999, and in 2002 created an advertising network
that places marketers’ messages on websites.  Recording artist and Hollywood actor Justin Timberlake will
take an unspecified stake in Specific Media and help develop a
new Myspace strategy, the company said in an e-mailed statement.
Details will be announced by September, Specific Media said.  Timberlake will keep an office at Myspace, which will
likely move out of  Beverly Hills  by the end of the year, and
oversee a team of about six employees focused on developing
products, Vanderhook said.  “We hope to reinvigorate the brand and give users a reason
to come back,” Vanderhook said. “ Justin Timberlake  will advise
us on how to get them back and give consumers a reason to come
back to a brand that has been challenged.”  Pop-Under  Vanderhook takes credit for creating the so-called pop-
under advertising unit after the dot-com bust a decade ago.
Specific Media has run campaigns for New England Jeep dealers,
 Colorado ’s lottery and Air New Zealand, the website says.  Specific Media  raised  $100 million from San Francisco-based
private-equity firm Francisco Partners in 2007, according to the
website. Its acquisitions include Broadband Enterprises, an
online video company known as BBE.  Under the new owners, Myspace isn’t likely to rise up and
compete with Google Inc. or Facebook as a social network,
Gartenberg said. Specific Media can still make the website
profitable, he said.  Opportunities  “There are a lot of opportunities for Myspace to carve out
a niche in social music exploration,” Gartenberg said in an
interview. “The brand is probably worth what they reportedly
paid, even though it’s a fire-sale price.”  News Corp., owner of the Fox TV network, climbed 22 cents
to $17.39 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. The Class A shares have gained 19 percent this year.  Jones told employees in January that News Corp. planned to
spin off or sell the site. He led a redesign in October aimed at
building online communities around films, TV shows and music.  Jack Kennedy, executive vice president of operations for
News Corp.’s digital group, has overseen the sale process, while
Allen & Co., a New York-based investment bank, marketed the
website to potential buyers.  Facebook, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , had 157.2 million
U.S. users in May, according to Reston, Virginia-based  Comscore
Inc. (SCOR)  It had a market value of $71 billion yesterday, according
to SharesPost Inc., an exchange for stock in privately held
companies.  Results for Myspace aren’t broken out in News Corp.’s
financial statements. The division that includes Myspace lost
$575 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, according
to company reports. During that period, Myspace lost less than
$100 million, the website said in an e-mail in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  