-- 
News Corp. Said to Be Nearing Sale of Myspace Website to Specific Media

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-06-29T04:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/news-corp-said-to-near-sale-of-myspace.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  is closing in on a sale
of its Myspace social-networking website to Specific Media, the
owner of an online advertising network, for about $35 million in
cash and stock, said a person with knowledge of the process.  A deal with Specific Media, based in the  Irvine ,
 California , isn’t certain and New York-based News Corp. is still
talking with other bidders, said the person, who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly. A transaction may be announced as
early as today, the person said.  A sale would rid  Rupert Murdoch  of a money-losing Web
service that lost its lead in social networking to Facebook Inc.
after being purchased in 2005 in a $580 million deal. News Corp.
had sought about $100 million for Myspace after Chief Operating
Officer  Chase Carey  said in February that he wanted a sale
completed by the June 30 end of the company’s fiscal year.  Dan Berger, a spokesman for New York-based News Corp.,
declined to comment. Specific Media declined to comment, said
Meredith Obendorfer, an outside spokeswoman for the company
founded by Tim and Chris Vanderhook.  For Specific Media, Myspace’s 34.9 million monthly visitors
would provide an audience for its network of online ads. The
company was formed in 1999 and created its advertising network
in 2002.  Chief Executive Officer Tim Vanderhook takes credit for
creating the pop-under advertising unit after the dot-com bust a
decade ago. Clients on past campaigns include Jeep dealers in
 New England ,  Colorado ’s lottery and Air New Zealand, according
to Specific Media’s website.  Staff Cuts  Specific Media  raised  $100 million from San Francisco-based
private-equity firm Francisco Partners in 2007, according to its
website. The company has made acquisitions including Broadband
Enterprises, or BBE, an online video company.  News Corp. is continuing to talk with Golden Gate Capital,
a San Francisco private-equity firm, and other interested
parties in case an agreement with Specific Media can’t be
reached, said the person.  In preparation for the deal this week, Myspace may cut more
than half of its staff, News Corp.’s AllThings D reported
yesterday. Rosabel Tao, a spokeswoman for  Beverly Hills ,
California-based Myspace, declined to comment.  Myspace CEO  Mike Jones  told employees in January that News
Corp. intended to spin off or sell the website. Jones led a
redesign in October aimed at building online communities around
films, TV shows and music.  Facebook’s Value  Jack Kennedy, executive vice president of operations for
News Corp.’s digital group, has overseen the sale process, while
Allen & Co., a New York-based investment bank, marketed the
website to potential buyers.  Facebook, based in  Palo Alto , California, had 157.2 million
U.S. users in May, according to Reston, Virginia-based Comscore.
It has a market value of $71 billion, according to SharesPost
Inc., an exchange for stock in privately held companies.  Results for Myspace aren’t broken out in News Corp.’s
financial statements. The division that includes Myspace lost
$575 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, according
to company reports. During that period, Myspace lost less than
$100 million, the website said in an e-mail in October.  News Corp., controlled by Chairman and CEO Rupert Murdoch,
climbed 26 cents to $17.18 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. The shares have risen 18 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  