-- 
Nigerian, Algerian Presidents to Meet on Sahara Gas Pipeline

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-06-29T14:06:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/nigerian-algerian-presidents-to-meet-on-sahara-gas-pipeline-1-.html
Nigeria  and Algeria plan to discuss
the timeline for the construction of a trans-Sahara pipeline
that will take natural gas from both countries to Europe at this
week’s  African Union  summit in Equatorial Guinea.  “We will come up with a clear war plan and timeline for
the project,” Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan  said today.
Africa’s biggest oil producer is looking to private investors to
help build the $20 billion gas pipeline project, which is
expected to be completed by 2015, Jonathan said.  African producers are increasing investments in gas
projects as Europe seeks to reduce its dependence on Russia,
which accounts for a fifth of its supply of the fuel. Nigeria,
Algeria and Niger signed an accord in July 2009 to build the
pipeline which will run from the Niger River delta, in southern
Nigeria, across Niger to Algeria and then across the
Mediterranean Sea to Spain, with possibly a branch going to
Italy, according to the Nigerian petroleum ministry.  OAO Gazprom,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  have also shown an
interest in developing the 4,127-kilometer (2,565-mile)
pipeline, which is 90 percent owned by state oil company
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. and Algeria’s Sonatrach. Niger
Republic holds the remaining stake.  Algeria is Africa’s biggest gas producer and Nigeria holds
the continent’s largest reserves of about 187 trillion standard
cubic feet, data from the ministry showed.  “We promise by 2015, even if it’s not finished, it will be
some way to being there,” Jonathan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net . 