-- 
Norway’s Olsen Says Greece Forces Rate Rethink

-- B y   J o n a s   B e r g m a n   a n d   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-06-29T07:11:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/norway-s-olsen-says-greece-force-rate-rethink.html
Norway  central bank Governor
Oeystein Olsen said a Greek restructuring would force the bank
to rethink its plans to raise interest rates and warned that the
fallout may spread to bigger economies inside Europe.  “A restructuring of Greek debt would be a worrying step
that would change the premise on which we base our forecasts,”
Olsen said yesterday an interview at his office in Oslo. If
there’s a restructuring “then attention will move to other
European countries, maybe even bigger European countries.”  European policy makers are trying to ensure any agreement
with Greek bondholders won’t be deemed a default by credit
rating companies as they try to stem the risk of contagion.
French banks are working on a proposal to roll over debt without
triggering a  credit event , according to a draft of the plan.
Greek lawmakers are voting today on an austerity package that
would free up more rescue funds to avoid a debt default.  Norway’s central bank last week held its benchmark interest
rate unchanged, after raising it for the first time in a year in
May, and indicated it would increase rates at least twice more
this year as it predicted Europe’s handling of the Greek crisis
would involve limited “spillover.” The bank signaled its
overnight deposit rate may reach an average of 2.65 percent in
the fourth quarter, from the current 2.25 percent.  ‘Positive Picture’  “Our development path for the Norwegian economy paints a
relatively positive picture over the next two to three years,”
Olsen said. “But we have clearly communicated the uncertainty
around our estimates, not least connected to the development in
the international economy, where the uncertainty is greater than
in a long time.”  The krone weakened as much as 0.4 percent, and traded down
0.16 percent at 7.7957 per euro as of 9:11 a.m. in Oslo.  Since the bank’s June 22 meeting, credit default swaps on
five-year Greek debt have continued to rise, reaching a record
2,421 basis points on June 27, and signaling investors are
raising their bets that  Greece  will default.  The French proposal would swap half the debt held by banks
and insurers maturing in the next three years for new 30-year
Greek bonds. Another 20 percent would be invested in a special
purpose vehicle that would serve as collateral for the banks,
two people familiar with the plan said.  Fitch Ratings  has
threatened to deem Greece in default if the European Union goes
ahead with a plan to get private investors to roll over their
Greek bonds as part of an aid package.  Less Dire  Norway policy makers last year shelved a series of planned
rate increases after Greece became the first of three euro
nations to seek a bail-out, before Ireland and  Portugal .  The situation so far is less dire, Olsen said yesterday.
“You don’t observe any general unrest and accelerating risk
taking in international markets, similar to what you saw last
spring and pre-summer. Now it is more isolated to specific
countries and treasury bills for Greece in particular.”  Olsen said private investor involvement in a second Greek
rescue plan has obvious “positive consequences,” including
easing pressure on German taxpayers and making the markets
function better. “If private creditors aren’t a part of a new
rescue package, what that in reality means is that private debt
is gradually and step by step transferred to the public thorough
the EU and the  International Monetary Fund ,” he said.  Greek Holdings  Banks in Norway, the only Scandinavian country that isn’t
part of the EU, have “insignificant” holdings in Greece and
limited capital placed in Ireland, Portugal,  Spain  and  Italy ,
the country’s Financial Supervisory Authority said this week.
The six largest banks hold less than 1.3 percent of their
managed capital in Greek, Irish, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish
assets, primarily in private companies and banks. The five
largest insurance companies held 2.1 percent of their capital in
government debt of the five countries, the regulator estimates.  Norway’s central bank is trying to steer growth in consumer
demand in the world’s second-richest economy per capita without
fanning krone gains that hurt exporters such as aluminum
producer Norsk Hydro ASA. Policy makers have indicated they
don’t want their rates to stray too far from the rest of  Europe ,
where leaders are struggling to contain the debt crisis. About
half of Norway’s economy comes from exports.  Really Stormy  Olsen said yesterday the krone is unlikely to benefit from
any potential turmoil as a so-called safe-haven investment. The
currency of the world’s seventh-largest oil exporter has
strengthened 1.6 percent against the euro since the bank last
week announced it would raise rates more than previously
forecast amid rising capacity utilization, accelerating wage
growth and falling unemployment.  “The krone can at times strengthen and be an attractive
investment alternative, because of the Norwegian economy’s
strong features,” Olsen said. “But when it gets really stormy
we’ll see a reaction in the opposite direction.”  The bank has forecast a stronger krone in the second half
of the year, as its estimates suggest about 2 1/2 increases in
rates, he said.  While overall growth is rebounding, the bank’s concern over
the housing market has eased, he said, in part as high incomes
and a high savings rate, coupled with increased home building,
will hold back house-price growth. The bank had previously
signaled rates would need to rise in part to hold back the real
estate market.  House prices  surged 9.2 percent last month,
according to the Norwegian Real Estate Brokers Association.  Housing Cools  Norwegians are still borrowing but credit growth hasn’t
“taken off,” Olsen said yesterday. Concern over the housing
market has “damped somewhat, especially in connection with that
borrowing hasn’t accelerated and  home construction  has
increased,” he said.  The bank last week cut its 2011 forecast for the mainland
economy, which adjusts for income from oil and shipping, to 3
percent from 3.25 percent in its March report while keeping its
forecast for 2012 growth at 3.75 percent. It also kept estimates
for inflation, adjusting for energy and taxes, at 1 percent this
year and 2 percent in 2012.  “There are features in the Norwegian economy, including
our view of developments going forward, that pull in the
direction of a need for higher rates, because the rate is low,”
Olsen said. “This has to be weighed against what is happening
abroad and the importance of not having too large a rate
difference or too strong an  exchange rate .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net  