-- 
Federer Upset by Tsonga in Wimbledon Quarterfinals; Nadal, Murray Advance

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-29T18:36:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/novak-djokovic-overcomes-qualifier-tomic-to-advance-to-wimbledon-semifinal.html
Six-time champion  Roger Federer  was
upset by  France ’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in the quarterfinals of
 Wimbledon .  Federer, playing in an Open era record 29th consecutive
quarterfinal, was 178-0 before today’s match when he won the
first two sets in a Grand Slam match. The No. 12 seed from
France came back to win 3-6, 6-7 (3-7), 6-4, 6-4, 6-4 on Centre
Court. He’ll play second-seeded Novak Djokovic of Serbia for a
place in the finals.  Top-seeded Rafael Nadal and fourth seed Andy Murray will
meet in the other semifinal. The 25-year-old Spaniard has beaten
Murray 11 of the 15 times they’ve played.  The defending champion beat  Mardy Fish , the last American
in the tournament, 6-3, 6-3, 5-7, 6-4, while Britain’s Murray
overcame  Spain ’s Feliciano Lopez 6-3, 6-4, 6-4.  Federer last year failed to reach the Wimbledon finals for
the first time since 2002 as he was beaten in the quarterfinals
by eventual finalist Tomas Berdych of the  Czech Republic . The
Swiss, at 29 the oldest man in the quarterfinals, was trying to
equal the record of seven All England Club titles held by
William Renshaw and  Pete Sampras .  ‘Tough Match’  “It’s always a tough match to lose,” Federer said at a
press conference. “Jo played great. Really from start to
finish, I don’t remember seeing a breakpoint after I broke him
in the first game.”  Tsonga, 26, has now won two of his six matches against the
Swiss, and reached his first semifinal at the All England Club
with the win. The Frenchman had been a runnerup to the No. 4
seeded  Andy Murray  of Britain at a grass-court warmup event at
Queen’s Club in London.  Tsonga reached his first Grand Slam final at the 2008
Australian Open, where he lost to Djokovic. The Frenchman has
won 5 of their seven previous meetings. They’ve never played on
grass.  After taking the first two sets, Federer dropped the third
as Tsonga started to attack his serve and found the range on his
ground strokes. In the third game of the fourth set, Tsonga
broke the Swiss with a forehand winner.  Fifth Set  Serving at 5-4, Tsonga forced a fifth frame as he produced
his 14th ace on set point. In the final set, Federer got broken
in the first game as he dumped a forehand into the net. Tsonga
held for a 2-0 lead and continued to dictate the Swiss with
powerful forehand winners.  Serving for his first place in the semifinals of Wimbledon
as the crowd cheered, Tsonga won the match on his first match
point as Federer’s backhand return sailed long.  “It’s just amazing, I’m so happy,” Tsonga said in a
televised interview after the match. “He’s the biggest champion
in my sport, he’s achieved a lot of things.”  Tsonga produced 18 aces, one more than Federer. The
Frenchman also struck 63 winners and made 22 unforced errors.
The Swiss produced 57 winners and made 11 mistakes.  “I was two sets down, then I broke. I had a good return
game,” Tsonga said. “After that, I played unbelievable, I
served unbelievable.”  Federer had entered Wimbledon after he made the finals of
the  French Open  earlier this month, where he lost to defending
champion Nadal. It had been Federer’s first Grand Slam final
since he won a 16th major title at the 2010 Australian Open.
He’s won the most Grand Slam singles trophies in the men’s game.
 Australia ’s  Margaret Smith Court  holds the overall record at 24.  Grass-Court Wins  The Swiss, who turns 30 in August, has won 11 grass-court
tournaments, the most since tennis turned professional in 1968.
His most recent grass-court win dates back to 2009 Wimbledon,
the year Nadal didn’t play because of sore knees.  Federer missed playing in his 29th major semifinal, which
would have allowed him to surpass  Ivan Lendl  into second place
behind  Jimmy Connors , who played in 31. The Swiss player has
appeared in 29 straight Grand Slam quarterfinals.  Nadal took his win streak on the grass courts of southwest
 London  to 19 in a row. He last lost in the 2007 final to
Federer. The third set was just the second he’s lost in five
matches in this year’s tournament.  “I started playing very well,” Nadal said in a televised
interview. “I had a break in the third and then he started
playing better. I lost some of the intensity in the third.”  Chasing Borg, Laver  Nadal is trying to become just the second man, after  Bjorn
Borg , to win the French Open and Wimbledon titles in the same
year on three occasions since tennis went professional in 1968.
He would have 11 major titles should he win this year at the All
England Club, tying him with Borg and  Rod Laver .  Fish, 29, was the 10th seed. He has never beaten Nadal, who
may lose the top ranking in the men’s ATP tennis tournament
should he not retain his Wimbledon title or should Djokovic
reach the final at the All England Club.  Djokovic defeated 18-year-old qualifier Bernard Tomic of
Australia 6-2, 3-6, 6-3, 7-5, to reach his fifth straight Grand
Slam semifinal.  “I’m delighted to be through,” the 24-year-old said in a
televised interview, after beating his occasional practice
partner. “He’s such an unpredictable player. He didn’t have
anything to lose.”  Djokovic Preparation  Two-time Australian Open champion Djokovic had entered the
 French Open  last month with a chance of taking the No. 1 spot
away from Nadal if he’d made the final. Instead, former world
No. 1 Federer beat him in the semifinals, ending the Serb’s
start-of-season winning streak at 41 matches, one fewer than
 John McEnroe ’s record set in 1984.  After  Roland Garros , Djokovic pulled out of playing a
grass-court warmup event at Queen’s Club in London because of
fatigue. He played one match on grass before Wimbledon, at an
exhibition event at Stoke Park just outside of London. Only six
men have won the Wimbledon title without playing an official
tournament on grass, including Federer in 2007 and 2009.  Until Paris, Djokovic had been on a 43-match win streak
since December, when he won the Davis Cup for  Serbia  at home in
Belgrade. That victory had boosted his confidence this season,
he’s frequently told reporters. He also changed his diet and
worked on his fitness.  Murray reached his third straight Wimbledon semifinal with
his victory. He lost last year to Nadal.  The 24-year-old is attempting to be the first British man
to win the singles title at the All England Club since  Fred Perry  in 1936. He reached the semifinals in 2009 and 2010, and
reached his first French Open semifinal this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 