-- 
NYSE Liffe Needs to Do CFTC-Style Report, WorldCrops Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-06-29T17:21:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/nyse-liffe-needs-to-do-cftc-style-report-worldcrops-says-1-.html
NYSE Liffe needs to come up with a
report on speculator holdings nearly one year later than planned
if only to help “clear the deck” as to how much speculators
are contributing to record food prices, WorldCrops Ltd. said.  Any sign of the report similar to one produced by the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission is “as distant as ever.
Which is a real shame,” WorldCrops said in a statement today.
“If we see NYSE Liffe come out with a CFTC-style report by the
third quarter 2012, we will be astonished.”  A group of 16 cocoa consumers wrote to NYSE Liffe on July
2, 2010, to complain about a lack of transparency and control in
the London cocoa market. NYSE Liffe said that month it planned
to publish trader reports in the third quarter. The aim now is
to publish them in the third quarter this year, Ian Dudden,
director of commodity derivatives, said this month.  “As somebody who is not hostile to speculative investors,
I think it would be very useful to have a complete demarcation
of who’s doing what,” Gary Mead, editor of WorldCrops.com, the
agriculture research website of WorldCrops Ltd., said by phone
today. “It is incumbent on an exchange, particularly in soft
commodities, whenever there is concern about food prices, to be
as transparent as possible.”  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has blamed speculation in
agricultural commodities for the “plague” of record food
prices. Group of 20 agriculture ministers meeting in Paris last
week agreed to put commodity market regulation on the agenda of
finance ministers who meet in September in  Washington .  The CFTC produces weekly reports on speculator and
commercial holdings in commodities including cocoa and raw sugar
traded on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  “Since the introduction of the new automated position
reporting system in February we have continued to work with
members and system suppliers to address any residual issues and
ensure we have accurate and consistent position information from
which to generate subsequent reports,” Dudden said in an e-mail
today. “Internal testing and validation is continuing with the
aim of publishing the new CFTC-style reports in Q3 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 