-- 
Obama Assails Republicans as Gulf in Deficit Talks Remains Wide

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-06-30T15:12:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/obama-says-balanced-approach-needed-to-cut-deficit-including-higher-taxes.html
President  Barack Obama  accused
Republicans of siding with corporate jet owners over children
and the elderly in deficit negotiations and compared Congress’s
work ethic unfavorably with that of his pre-teen daughters.  Obama’s comments underscored the distance between the White
House and Republicans on talks to cut the deficit and raise the
government’s debt limit as  Standard & Poor’s  warned it would
downgrade  U.S. debt  to junk status in the event of a default and
the Senate canceled its July 4 recess to continue talking.  “The yellow light is flashing,” Obama said yesterday
during a news conference, warning of dire consequences if
Congress doesn’t raise the borrowing limit before Aug. 2, when
the Treasury Department projects it will no longer be able to
meet all its obligations.  “This is a jobs issue,” he said. “This is not an
abstraction. If the United States government, for the first
time, cannot pay its bills, if it defaults, then the
consequences for the  U.S. economy  will be significant and
unpredictable.”  If the U.S. misses a payment on its debt because Congress
doesn’t raise the debt ceiling in time, Standard & Poor’s would
cut the U.S. credit rating from its sovereign top-level AAA
ranking to D, the last rung on its scale, said John Chambers,
chairman of the company’s sovereign rating committee.  Pay the Bills  “If any government doesn’t pay its debt on time, the
rating of that government goes to D,” Chambers said today in an
interview with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside
Track.”  Other credit-rating services also have expressed concern
over the delay. Moody’s Investors Service said on June 2 it
expects to place the U.S. government’s Aaa credit rating under
review for a possible downgrade if there’s no progress on the
debt limit by mid-July.  Fitch Ratings  said June 21 it would
place the U.S. on a negative rating watch if no action is taken
by Aug. 2.  The two sides are at a standoff over demands from the White
House for tax increases and from Republicans for cuts in the
Medicare health-insurance program for the elderly and other
entitlements after bipartisan talks on debt reduction led by
Vice President Joe Biden collapsed last week.  ‘It’s Only Fair’  Obama cast the differences in moral terms. “Before we ask
our seniors to pay more for health care, before we cut our
children’s education,” he said, “it’s only fair to ask an  oil
company  or a corporate jet owner that has done so well to give
up that tax break that no other business enjoys.”  House Speaker  John Boehner  rebuffed him, saying in a
statement issued soon afterward that Obama “is sorely mistaken
if he believes a bill to raise the debt ceiling and raise taxes
would pass the House. The votes simply aren’t there, and they
aren’t going to be there.”  The president met on June 27 with Senate Republican leader
 Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky . McConnell today invited Obama to go
to Capitol Hill to meet with Senate Republicans to “hear
directly from our conference about the legislative realities”
in Congress.  “Both sides agree that our deficits and our debt are
unsustainable,” McConnell said in a speech on the Senate floor
yesterday. “Beyond that, the differences are stark.”  Tea Party Pressure  Leaders of the Republican-controlled House must contend
with a contingent of freshman members aligned with the Tea Party
who have expressed skepticism about the urgency of lifting the
debt limit, currently capped at $14.3 trillion. Boehner, an Ohio
Republican, offered support for that view in an appearance June
28 on Fox News’ “Hannity” program in which he dismissed the
Aug. 2 deadline as “artificial.”  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican who last month
dropped out of a bipartisan group of senators trying to reach a
deficit-reduction deal, said on PBS’s “The Charlie Rose Show”
on June 28 that it is increasingly likely House Republicans
won’t act on the debt limit by the Aug. 2 deadline.  “If we don‘t have major changes to entitlements, I don‘t
see how you get that vote through the House,” Coburn said.  While the U.S. deficit is dominating the debate in
Washington, the  interest rates  the federal government pays to
borrow funds have remained low amid a flight of money to safety
because of the Greek debt crisis. Yields on 10-year Treasury
notes declined from 3.73 percent on Feb. 8 to 2.86 percent on
June 24, though they have begun to rise since as the risk of a
default by  Greece  has eased in recent days. Yields on 10-year
Treasury notes gained 7 basis points, or 0.07 percentage point,
to 3.19 percent at 10:29 a.m. today in  New York , according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  CDS Rising  One-year credit-default swaps are rising this year as
investors seek insurance in case of a U.S. default.  The contracts climbed to 49.42 basis points as of yesterday
in New York from this year’s low of 20.81 basis points in April,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  By contrast, one-year credit default swaps are 36.57 basis
points for  Japan  and 143.31 basis points for  Spain , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps pay the owner
if a borrower fails to meet its debt obligations.  No ‘All-Nighters’  After facing Republican criticism for being absent from the
table while his vice president led negotiations, Obama chided
Congress for taking recesses and weekend breaks while the issue
is unresolved.  He challenged Congress to give up its time away if
negotiations on the debt limit don’t make “substantial
progress” by the end of this week. He said lawmakers ought to
follow the example of his daughters, Malia, 12, and Sasha, 10,
who complete their homework “a day ahead of time.”  “They don’t wait until the night before. They’re not
pulling all-nighters,” the president said. “You know, Congress
can do the same thing.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  said today the
chamber would cancel its July 4 recess.  Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the Democrat who
chairs the Budget Committee, said he is planning to unveil his
budget blueprint. The plan, he said, would shave more off the
deficit than the leaders of Obama’s bipartisan debt commission
envisioned -- their plan projected savings of $3.8 trillion over
a decade -- and would include tax increases.  ‘Get an Agreement’  At a private White House meeting with Senate Democratic
leaders yesterday, Obama said he needed some time to work with
Boehner on a debt deal, senators reported. “His goal,
obviously, is to get an agreement,” Senator Dick Durbin of
 Illinois , the chamber’s second-ranking Democrat, said of Obama.
Durbin said the president was essentially saying, “Give me a
couple days to work with him.”  Most of the Republicans competing to take on Obama in 2012
have said that any action to raise the debt ceiling should come
with spending cuts and changes to the budget process; one --
Representative Ron Paul of  Texas  -- opposes the move outright.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  