-- 
Obama Says Actions in Libya Didn’t Violate War Powers Law

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   P e l h a m   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-06-29T19:33:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/obama-says-actions-in-libya-didn-t-violate-war-powers-law-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said that
U.S. participation in the air campaign against Muammar Qaddafi’s
forces in  Libya  didn’t require congressional approval and that
the U.S. and its allies are succeeding in their mission in
Afghanistan.  “We have done exactly what I said we would do” in Libya,
Obama said today at a White House news conference. “We have
engaged in a limited operation to help a lot of people against
one of the worst tyrants in the world.”  While he has consulted with lawmakers, Obama maintained
that his decision to involve the U.S. in the operation doesn’t
violate the  War Powers Resolution , a 1973 law requiring
congressional approval for engaging in hostilities.  Congress has sent mixed signals as some lawmakers argue
that the White House needs to authorize the military action. On
June 25, the  House of Representatives  voted to deny Obama the
power to wage war in Libya, while refusing, in a separate
action, to cut off money for the mission. Yesterday, by a 14-5
vote, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee approved a
resolution backing the deployment of U.S. warplanes to support
the allied bombardment of Libya.  “A lot of this fuss is politics,” Obama said.  Success in Afghanistan  Obama also said that the U.S. and its allies have succeeded
in severely crippling al-Qaeda’s capabilities and that Afghan
troops will be able to take over defense of their country.  “We are being successful in those missions,” Obama said,
citing training of Afghan forces.  The president announced on June 22 his plan to withdraw
33,000 troops in  Afghanistan  over the next 15 months. About
10,000 would come home before the end of the year and 23,000 --
the remainder of the troop surge deployed last year -- would be
home by September 2012, two months before the presidential
election.  The mission in Afghanistan is in a transition phase that
the U.S. “work is not done,” he said today.  Obama was asked about yesterday’s armed attack, led by
Taliban militants, on the Hotel Intercontinental in Kabul that
left 12 people dead and was intended to kill officials from
Afghanistan, the U.S. and  Pakistan .  “We understood that Afghanistan’s a dangerous place, that
the Taliban is still active and that there are still going to be
events like this on occasion,” Obama said. “The question is,
in terms of overall trend, is Afghan capacity increasing?”  Obama said Kabul is still safer than it was and local
security forces “are much more capable than they were.”  The president said that U.S. forces are keeping up pressure
on extremists even as preparations are made for troop
withdrawals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Pelham in Washington at 
 vpelham@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  