-- 
Obama Counterterrorism Plan Focuses on Threat ‘From Within’

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-06-29T21:18:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/obama-counterterrorism-strategy-focuses-on-threat-from-within-.html
The Obama administration’s new
counterterrorism strategy is the nation’s first to focus on al-
Qaeda’s ability to attack the U.S. “from within,” White House
adviser  John Brennan  said.  Brennan, deputy national security adviser for homeland
security and counterterrorism, said that the U.S. strategy, the
unclassified version of which the White House released today,
principally addresses al-Qaeda and its affiliates. It “is not
designed to combat directly every single terrorist organization
in every corner of the world,” he said.  The strategy reflects the administration’s preference for
tightly focused strikes against extremist groups over large-
scale wars, Brennan said today at the Johns Hopkins University
Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies in
Washington.  The U.S. posture “won’t always be deploying large armies
abroad, but rather delivering targeted, surgical pressure to the
groups that threaten us,” he said.  The blueprint that will guide administration policy in
confronting the threat from terrorism is being released after
the killing of  Osama bin Laden  last month, President  Barack Obama ’s June 22 announcement he will withdraw 33,000 U.S. troops
from Afghanistan by the end of the summer of 2012, and civil
uprisings across the  Middle East  and North Africa that have
toppled longtime leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt  and threaten
rulers in countries including Syria and Yemen.  Arab Spring  Brennan, 55, said that while the so-called Arab Spring has
meant “new challenges and uncertainty in the short term,” it
has “repudiated” al-Qaeda’s philosophy of change through
violence.  The upheaval has left al-Qaeda and other extremist groups
“on the sidelines, watching history pass them by,” he said.  Even as it’s been weakened by the deaths of key leaders and
U.S. pressure on its enclaves, al-Qaeda is looking to other
groups and individuals to take up its quest to strike the U.S.,
Brennan said.  Brennan said Obama’s planned troop withdrawals from
 Afghanistan  won’t impair the administration’s counterterrorism
effort there and in  Pakistan . He said the U.S-Pakistan
partnership would continue despite tensions.  Pakistan’s Leaders  Brennan said he believes Pakistan’s top leaders weren’t
aware that bin Laden was hiding in the town of Abbottabad, where
he was killed by a U.S. special forces team. At the same time,
he said, “there is a real cancer” of terrorism inside Pakistan
and that Pakistanis must be “very honest” with themselves
about their internal threats rather than blame the U.S. for the
problem.  Brennan said the administration is focused on dismantling
“the core” of al-Qaeda in tribal regions of Pakistan and
affiliates in Yemen, Somalia,  Iraq  and areas of North Africa.  The strategy calls for building “a culture of resilience”
in the U.S. that combines interagency coordination, protecting
critical infrastructure including cyber-security, and an
emphasis on Muslim-Americans as welcome members of society who
can help prevent terrorism. Brennan said the administration
later this summer will release a formal approach for partnering
with communities to prevent violent extremism.  Update of Strategy  Obama’s strategy updates a 2006 plan developed by President
 George W. Bush ’s administration that stressed spreading
democracy and denying terrorist groups safe havens in failed or
rogue nations.  Brennan said the new strategy is neither an overhaul nor a
full retention of Bush’s approach. He called it “pragmatic, not
ideological.”  Juan Zarate, a former Bush administration counterterrorism
adviser, said there is a “fundamental continuity at the core of
the strategy regardless of the rhetoric built around it” in
that under Bush the priority “was always on al-Qaeda and its
ideology.”  Zarate, now a senior adviser with the Center for Strategic
& International Studies, a policy institute in Washington, said
the greater emphasis on countering the threat of homegrown
terrorists may be useful. He said it should not distract from
the threat from groups beyond the core of al-Qaeda metastasizing
and launching attacks outside the U.S. that could have global
implications.  Frank Cilluffo, director of the Homeland Security Policy
Institute at George  Washington  University in Washington, said
reworking the nation’s counterterrorism strategy in the post-
bin-Laden era is an opportunity to underscore the changes in
priorities and conditions since the previous plan and clarify
for Americans and foreign nations Obama’s approach going
forward.  “It’s important to be able to lay out the direction you
want to go and then lay out the tools and means,” he said. The
threat from al-Qaeda “is real and some people may be under the
impression that, ‘Ding-dong the witch is dead, the threat is
gone,’ and that’s simply not the case.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 