-- 
Obama Lures Trade-Deal Support From Business

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-06-29T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/obama-lures-trade-deal-support-from-business-as-republicans-balk.html
President  Barack Obama  won support
of the largest U.S. business lobbying groups while Republicans
balked at his plans to attach aid for displaced workers to
stalled trade deals with South Korea, Panama and  Colombia .  The endorsement from groups including the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, which represents companies such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and
PepsiCo Inc., came with a call for Republicans to drop their
objections. It was a turnaround for business leaders, who in the
past joined Republicans in criticizing Obama’s policies.  “For members of Congress who care about American jobs,
this is a moment of truth,”  Thomas Donohue , the Chamber’s
president, said in a statement. “I urge members of both parties
to seize a reasonable compromise and move the trade agenda
forward.”  Consideration of the trade agreements, which have
languished since 2007, got a boost yesterday when the Senate
Finance Committee set plans for a hearing tomorrow on the
accords. Draft legislation submitted by Democratic Senator  Max Baucus  of  Montana , the committee chairman, with support from the
Obama administration would attach Trade Adjustment Assistance
for workers to the South Korea deal. Republicans protested
connecting the two issues.  “I’ve never voted against a trade agreement before, but if
the administration were to embed TAA into the Korea trade
agreement, I would be compelled to vote against it,” Senate
Republican Leader Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky  told reporters. It
makes the debate “needlessly complicated and contentious.”  Senator Orrin Hatch of  Utah , the panel’s top Republican,
said he also opposed linking the trade deals with worker aid.
Republican opposition means Democrats, who have split on
previous trade deals with nations such as Mexico and Oman, must
round up bipartisan support for the accords in the Senate.  Unusual ‘Configuration’  “This particular configuration is unusual,” said  Michael Moore , a professor at George  Washington  University in Washington
and an economist in the administration of President  George W. Bush . “Certainly in the last 30 or 40 years, I can’t think of
an example where you would have serious opposition from
Republicans” to trade deals.  Obama reworked the three free-trade agreements completed by
his predecessor, George W. Bush, in response to concerns among
Democrats on issues such as labor rights. The administration has
been pushing to get the deals approved by Congress before a
recess in August.  Legislation to implement the agreements would be given
fast-track treatment, a procedure that guarantees trade bills
submitted to Congress by the president can’t be amended before
an up-or-down vote.  ‘Mock Markup’  “The road to this point has not been an easy one, but our
economy needs these jobs and these opportunities,” Baucus said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “There really can be no more excuse for inaction,” John Engler, the president of the Washington-based  Business
Roundtable , which represents corporate chief executive officers,
said in a statement. “Support for a broad, positive trade
agenda enjoys a long bipartisan tradition in Congress, as do
such programs as Trade Adjustment Assistance.”  What the Senate panel announced yesterday was a “mock
markup” session, held before the administration submits the
legislation, that gives lawmakers a chance to offer amendments.
The administration can accept or disregard any amendments made
in the hearing before sending the measure to Congress.  The Trade Adjustment Assistance program augments health and
unemployment benefits to workers who lose their jobs because of
overseas competition. As part of the stimulus legislation in
2009, it was expanded to include service workers such as call-
center employees. The added benefits expired in February.  The proposal from Baucus and the White House would continue
most of those benefits through 2013, and provide retroactive
assistance to those left out so far this year.  Paying for Aid  To pay for the extended worker assistance, the measure
includes a provision to reduce reimbursement rates for medical
imaging such as CAT scans and MRI scans by $400 million over the
next 10 years, which could hurt companies such as  General
Electric Co. (GE)  The measure also would require prisons to submit
the names and Social Security numbers of inmates in an effort to
avert tax fraud, and would set fines for false unemployment-
insurance claims.  In earlier incarnations, the trade assistance was extended
for five years rather than two years.  “This is a great deal, but it puts us back to where we are
now in two years,” said Howard Rosen, a fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in Washington.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, has long
maintained that the worker aid “should be dealt with separately
from the trade agreements, and that is how we expect to
proceed,”  Brendan Buck , Boehner’s spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Losing Fast-Track  If the Republican majority in the House seeks to amend
trade legislation Obama submits, the measure would lose its
fast-track status, which wouldn’t necessarily be a setback in
the House, where Republicans control the process, said Caitlin Webber, a Bloomberg Government trade analyst.  “But under that scenario, a House-passed Korea trade deal
could die on the Senate floor without fast track,” Webber said.  John Brinkley, a spokesman for the South Korean embassy,
declined to comment on the agreement, saying he hadn’t had an
opportunity to review it. Carmen Mora, a spokeswoman for
 Panama ’s embassy in Washington, didn’t return a call for
comment.  Trade Preferences  The agreement “marks the beginning of the formal
congressional review process toward approval” of the accords,
said Gabriel Silva, Colombia’s ambassador to the U.S. “As the
agreement was signed more than four years ago, we are pleased to
see the pathway toward approval in sight.”  Representative Sander Levin of  Michigan , the top Democrat
on the House Ways and Means Committee, said this week that he
would oppose the free-trade agreement with Colombia, because the
administration refused to write provisions on labor rights into
the legislation.  The draft legislation for the Colombia accord from Baucus
and the administration includes renewal of trade-preference
programs for poor nations, which had expired in February.  The  South Korea  deal is the largest of the three pending
accords. That deal was initially opposed by Ford Motor Co. and
the United Auto Workers union until the Obama administration
negotiated to scale back reductions of tariffs. Total trade in
goods with South Korea climbed to $88 billion in 2010, making
the deal the biggest for the U.S. since the  North American Free
Trade Agreement  with Mexico and  Canada  in 1994.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  