-- 
Obama Health-Care Overhaul to Be Appealed to Supreme Court, Lawyer Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-06-30T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/obama-administration-health-care-law-upheld-by-u-s-appeals-court-panel.html
A U.S. appeals court upheld
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care reform act, setting the
stage for a request that the Supreme Court review claims that
the law violates the Constitution.  The Cincinnati-based Court of Appeals voted 2-1 yesterday
to reject a challenge to the legislation by the  Ann Arbor ,
Michigan-based Thomas More Law Center, a Christian-based public
interest law firm, which contended Congress exceeded its power
in imposing the individual mandate.  “Not every intrusive law is an unconstitutionally
intrusive law,” Jeffrey Sutton, the first Republican-appointed
judge to back the law in litigation across the country, said in
his opinion.  Yesterday’s federal appeals court ruling was the first to
address the constitutionality of Obama’s signature legislative
accomplishment.  Robert Muise , who argued the case for the Thomas
More center in Cincinnati, said by phone that his group will ask
the high court to take the case.  “This case ultimately needs to be decided by the U.S.
 Supreme Court ,” Muise said, adding that his organization will
file its petition for review as quickly as possible.  Two other appeals courts have heard arguments on challenges
to the health-care overhaul and the high court may wait for
their rulings before getting involved.  Republican-Appointed Judge  Sutton, an appointee of Republican President  George W. Bush , joined Judge Boyce Martin, named to the bench by President
 Jimmy Carter , in the majority.  Sutton is a former law clerk to Antonin Scalia, the
conservative U.S. Supreme Court justice who wrote this month’s
opinion rejecting a nationwide gender-bias suit against Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. Scalia once  called  Sutton “one of the very best law
clerks I ever had.”  As a lawyer, Sutton  persuaded  the high court to limit
Congress’s power by shielding states from suits under federal
age-bias and disabilities laws.  He was nominated in 2001 on the same day that Bush selected
 John Roberts , the future chief justice, for a seat on a federal
appeals court in Washington. When the Senate approved Sutton’s
nomination in 2003, only two Democrats  voted  in favor.  The  Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act , signed into
law by Obama in March 2010, is intended to create the first
near-universal U.S. health-care coverage program.  Ensuring Coverage  The statute bars insurers from rejecting coverage for
people who are already sick, and from imposing limits on
lifetime costs.  It also requires almost every American resident to have
health insurance starting in 2014 or to pay a tax penalty.  Opponents of the act, including the Thomas More center’s
Muise, have argued the mandate exceeds the regulatory powers
given to Congress under the U.S. Constitution.  U.S. District Judge George Caram Steeh in  Detroit  last year
upheld the law.  The U.S. Justice Department said in an e-mailed statement
that it welcomed the ruling and “will continue to vigorously
defend the health-care reform statute in any litigation
challenging it.”  In separate opinions, Sutton and Martin each said Congress
had power to enact the insurance mandate through its
constitutional authority over interstate commerce.  ‘Rational Basis’  “Congress had a rational basis for concluding that the
minimum coverage requirement is essential to its broader reforms
to the national markets in health care delivery and health
insurance,” Martin wrote.  Sutton rejected the contention that Congress was improperly
regulating “inactivity.” He said that uninsured people pay for
medical coverage by “self-insuring” -- that is, by saving
money or by relying on someone else to eventually cover the
costs.  “No one is inactive when deciding how to pay for health
care, as self-insurance and private insurance are two forms of
action for addressing the same risk,” Sutton said. “Each
requires affirmative choices; one is no less active than the
other, and both affect commerce.”  Sutton also addressed a separate constitutional provision,
saying the law couldn’t be upheld under Congress’s power to levy
taxes.  Walter E. Dellinger, a former U.S. solicitor general -- the
 Justice Department ’s top courtroom lawyer -- under President
 Bill Clinton , called yesterday’s ruling “a complete
vindication” of the constitutionality of the act.  ‘Obliterates’ arguments  Speaking during a telephone press conference, Dellinger
said Sutton’s reasoning “obliterates” arguments by opponents
of the act that said Congress was seeking to regulate
inactivity.  Dellinger had submitted a friend of the court brief for
Nevada Senator  Harry Reid , the Democratic Majority Leader, and
House of Representatives Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of
 California .  Georgetown University law professor  Randy Barnett , who
filed a friend-of-the-court brief with the Cincinnati tribunal
on behalf of the  Cato Institute , called yesterday’s decision “a
bump in the road on the way to the Supreme Court.”  “That’s where this case will ultimately be decided,”
Barnett said in a phone interview. The institute is a
Washington-based research group that describes itself on its
website as “dedicated to the principles of individual liberty,
free markets and peace.”  Commercial Activity  Barnett said that while Martin and Sutton were able to
agree on some points, they were unable to persuade the third
member of the panel, U.S. District Judge James L. Graham.  “Simply put, the mandate does not regulate the commercial
activity of obtaining health care,” Graham, who ordinarily is
part of the U.S. District Court in Columbus,  Ohio , said in a
partial dissent. “It regulates the status of being uninsured.”  “If the exercise of power is allowed and the mandate is
upheld, it is difficult to see what the limits on Congress’s
Commerce Clause authority would be,” Graham said.  On appeal, the Supreme Court would have to decide “if
there are any enforceable limits to Commerce Clause power and if
there’s anything left of federalism,” Georgetown’s Barnett
said.  Thomas More’s Muise agreed, calling the Cincinnati panel’s
decision “a dangerous precedent.”  “If Congress has the authority to regulate inactivity,
there is then no conceivable limit on Congress’s commerce clause
authority,” Muise said.  Atlanta Court  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Atlanta heard arguments June 8
in the federal government’s bid to reverse a Pensacola, Florida,
federal judge’s decision that the mandate is unconstitutional.  In a suit filed by then-Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum and later joined by 25 more states, U.S. District Judge
Roger Vinson concluded that the insurance-purchase provision was
unconstitutional and without it, the remainder of the act is
unworkable and void.  A federal appeals court in Richmond,  Virginia , heard
argument on May 10 in the combined appeal of two lower-court
rulings, one by a U.S. District Court judge in Richmond who
struck down the purchase mandate, and another by a judge in
Lynchburg, Virginia, who upheld the act and dismissed a
challenge to it.  The Cincinnati court heard arguments on June 1.  Dellinger, the former solicitor general, predicted that if
the appeals courts issue divergent rulings, one or more of those
decisions would likely be reviewed by the Supreme Court during
its next term, which begins in October.  The Cincinnati case is Thomas More Law Center v. Obama, 10-
2388, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit (Cincinnati).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  