-- 
Lockheed F-35 May Face Cuts in Budget Review, Gates Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-06-29T22:35:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/lockheed-s-f-35-strike-fighter-may-face-cuts-in-budget-review-gates-says.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 fighter
program might be cut back as part of the Pentagon’s new budget
review, even as there is a strong need for the program,
departing U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said today.  “The issue will be less ‘whether’ we go forward with the
plane than how many we ultimately buy,” Gates said during an
interview with Bloomberg News on his last full day at the
Pentagon.  Asked if the Pentagon’s costliest weapons program was
endangered because of deficit reduction pressures, Gates said,
“potentially, one of the issues could be the size of the buy.”  “Obviously, if you reduce that, the price per airplane is
going to go up. People have to bear that in mind. But, there is
no question in my mind we have to have the airplane if we are
looking out 10, 20, 30 years,” he said.  The Pentagon currently plans to spend $382 billion to buy
2,457 of the stealth jets in different versions for the Navy,
 Air Force  and Marine Corps.  The F-35 will be assessed as part of the Pentagon review of
how to reach President Barack Obama’s goal to reduce military
spending by $400 billion through 2023. Gates in the interview
said the review was his idea.  “People are really going to have to stay on top of it in
terms of execution,” Gates said of a program that’s had its
test and production schedules extended twice since late 2009.  ‘Key is Execution’  “I think we have identified the problems, identified the
issues that have to be dealt with, and now, both for us and the
manufacturer, the key is execution.”  Gates cited the importance of “not only keeping costs
under control but seeing where we can reduce those costs.”  Gates in an August 2009 Bloomberg interview at Lockheed
Martin’s plant in Forth Worth,  Texas , said “a lot of the
highest-risk elements of the program are behind us at this
point. I think there are still management and execution
issues.”  His view changed in late 2009 when given an independent
“joint estimating team” assessment. That led to the first of
two program delays.  He fired the military program manager in February 2010 and
ordered the first delay, cutting the Pentagon’s planned
purchases by 10 aircraft in fiscal 2011 and a total of 122
through 2015. He also removed $614 million in fee payments
because “a number of key goals and benchmarks were not met.”  Second Engine  Gates in the interview also said he expects the Pentagon
will continue to oppose development of the alternative engine
for the F-35 by  General Electric Co. (GE)  and Rolls-Royce Group Plc.  “It’s the Air Force’s money and the Air Force doesn’t have
any,” he said of the service buying most of the F-35s. The
Pentagon says the second engine would cost $2.9 billion to
complete development.  “I don’t know from nothing about the technologies of these
engines but I do pay attention to the people who do, and for
whom that engine might be built,” Gates said. “Whether it’s
the Marine leadership, the Air Force leadership or the Navy
leadership -- none of them are interested in the extra engine.
They don’t want to pay the additional 3 billion bucks.”  “It’s not just personal with me,” Gates said. “My
recommendation was based on the views of the customers and guys
doing the acquisitions.”  Still, the U.S. Government Accountability Office in a
September 2010 report said it may cost less than the Pentagon’s
$2.9 billion estimate.  The projection “does not include the same level of
fidelity and precision normally associated with a detailed,
comprehensive estimate,” the GAO said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 