-- 
Crude Oil Climbs for Second Day as Supplies Decline More Than Expected

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-06-29T19:57:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/oil-fluctuates-in-new-york-after-greek-lawmakers-approve-austerity-measure.html
Oil rose, in the biggest two-day
rally in seven weeks in  New York , after the U.S. government said
supplies dropped almost three times as much as expected.  Crude rose 2 percent after the Energy Department said
inventories fell for a fourth week, the longest stretch of drops
this year, as imports decreased. Oil has gained 4.1 percent
since June 23, when it dropped 4.6 percent after the
 International Energy Agency  announced the release of 60 million
barrels from strategic reserves, half from the U.S.  “The numbers were very bullish for crude,” said Carl Larry, director of energy derivatives and research with Blue
Ocean Brokerage in New York. “They show that we’re losing a lot
of imports already, and we could see more of a decline in
expected deliveries to the U.S. because of the IEA release.”  Crude for August delivery rose $1.88 to settle at $94.77 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices advanced 4.6
percent in the past two sessions, the biggest two-day increase
since May 10. Futures have risen 25 percent in the past year and
have fallen 11 percent in the second quarter.  Brent oil for August settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange gained $3.62, or 3.3 percent, to $112.40
a barrel.  Crude inventories declined 4.38 million barrels, or 1.2
percent, to 359.5 million barrels in the week ended June 24,
more than the 1.5 million median forecast of 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Imports fell 3 percent to 8.88
million barrels a day, the first drop in three weeks.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  said
yesterday in a separate report that crude stockpiles slipped 2.7
million barrels to 360.3 million, a 10-week low.  Greek Vote  Crude also advanced after Greek lawmakers voted to approve
an austerity plan designed to stave off a debt default. Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  clinched enough votes in parliament
to pass the 78 billion-euro ($112 billion) package of budget
cuts and state-asset sales.  “The mood on oil has been changing because we are
potentially seeing a resolution of the Greek crisis,” said Sean Brodrick, a natural resource analyst with  Weiss Research  in
Jupiter, Florida. “The IEA members’ 60 million barrels seems to
have been priced in.”  Oil futures dropped 6.1 percent in  London  on the day of the
IEA announcement.  Richard Jones , deputy executive director of the Paris-based
agency, said today in Mexico City that members may decide next
month to release more stockpiles.  Euro Strengthens  The euro strengthened 0.4 percent to $1.4424 in New York.
Earlier, it touched $1.4448, the highest intraday price since
June 15. A stronger euro bolsters commodities as an alternative
investment to the  U.S. dollar .  “The situation in Greece has a psychological influence on
the value of the euro, and that’s probably one of the biggest
drivers for the oil market,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of
research for IAF Advisors in Houston.  Prices also advanced on concern that Tropical Storm Arlene
will cause a shutdown of ports in  Mexico ’s oil-producing Bay of
Campeche,  Eugen Weinberg , Frankfurt-based head of commodities
research at Commerzbank AG, wrote in a report today. The storm
formed yesterday in the southwestern  Gulf of Mexico .  Mexico is the second-biggest oil exporter to the U.S. after
 Canada . It supplied 1.19 million barrels a day in March, the
last month for which Energy Department figures are available.
 Petroleos Mexicanos , Mexico’s state-owned oil company and Latin
America’s largest producer, has wells in the bay, located south
of the storm.  Near Hurricane Strength  Arlene is moving west at 8 miles (13 kilometers) per hour
and is forecast to make landfall at near-hurricane strength on
the northeastern coast of Mexico, the U.S. National Hurricane
Center said in a bulletin at about 1 p.m. Mexico City time.  Crude also rose amid speculation OPEC may reduce output in
response to IEA’s release of oil from reserves.  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s largest producer, will proceed with
plans to ensure the global market has enough oil, regardless of
what the IEA does, a person familiar with policy at the oil
ministry said.  Saudi Arabia estimates that consumption will rise by 1.2 to
1.5 million barrels a day in 2012 from this year’s level and the
kingdom will contribute to meeting that demand, according to the
person, who declined to be identified because he isn’t
authorized to speak on the matter.  Saudi Arabia pledged to keep consumers sufficiently
supplied after an OPEC meeting June 8 in Vienna at which members
failed to reach an accord on Saudi-championed output increases.
The London-based al-Hayat newspaper reported June 10 that it
would boost output to 10 million barrels a day, compared with
Bloomberg estimates of 8.9 million in May.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 556,279
contracts as of 2:32 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 574,444
contracts yesterday, 15 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.52 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 