-- 
Oil Deals Slump to Slowest Since Crisis as Asia Retreats

-- B y   B r a d   M e r c h a n t   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-06-30T10:54:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/oil-deals-slump-to-slowest-since-crisis-as-asia-buyers-retreat.html
Oil and gas acquisitions are on
track for the weakest quarter since the end of the financial
crisis as Asian companies bought fewer assets.  Deals announced in the industry worldwide slipped to $18
billion since April, the least since the final quarter of 2008,
Bloomberg data show. Chinese, Korean and Malaysian buyers, who
accounted for about 20 percent of all energy mergers in 2010,
purchased $1.8 billion of assets in the second quarter, 30
percent of the $6 billion quarterly average the past two years.  Oil’s rally to $114 a barrel in May, higher U.K. taxes and
concern the global economy is weakening have discouraged deals.
The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for global
growth this year because of Europe’s debt crisis and the risk of
a slowdown in the U.S. recovery.  “The global economy is a bigger issue for deals than the
oil price,” said  Christine Tiscareno , an equity analyst at
 Standard & Poor’s  in London. “It’s a year for companies to ask
themselves whether they really want to sign agreements if the
economy is slumping.”  The drop in crude to a four-month low this week to $89.61
in  New York  may help transactions to pick up in the second half
of the year as national  oil companies  seek to secure supplies.  “There’s still appetite from Asian companies and no lack
of finance,” said Colin McLean, chief executive officer at SVM
Asset Management Ltd. in Edinburgh, who oversees about $900
million in securities. “I don’t think M&A is over for this
cycle, it will pull back.”  Sinopec Buys LNG  China  Petroleum and Chemical Corp., known as Sinopec, in
April bought a 15 percent stake in  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Origin
Energy Ltd. (ORG) ’s liquid natural gas project in Australia for $1.5
billion, the Asian country’s biggest purchase of the quarter.
The largest deal worldwide was KKR & Co.’s sale of its Eagle
Ford assets to  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  for $3.5 billion. Transactions
for shale gas properties in the Eagle Ford area of Texas
accounted for 20 percent energy deals in the quarter.  The price of  Brent crude , the benchmark for two-thirds of
the world, averaged $117 a barrel in the three months through
June, the highest since the third quarter of 2008.  “Analysts have been raising their long-term oil-price
assumptions, so valuations of assets have been creeping up,”
said Ivor Pether, a fund manager at Royal London Asset
Management. “You can see why buyers might have been more
cautious if their view on the oil price is less bullish.”  Global M&A  M&A in the oil industry has slumped even as global
transactions remained little changed from the first quarter.
Global activity was $637 billion in the quarter, led by  Johnson
& Johnson (JNJ) ’s $19.4 billion acquisition of Synthes, Inc., a maker
of orthopedic devices.  U.S. companies bought $7.1 billion of oil and gas assets
since March, compared with a quarterly average of $16.3 billion
over the past two years.  In the U.K., a new tax on North Sea oil profits may have
stopped deals. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne in
March raised the levy to 62 percent from 50 percent, a move that
Oil & Gas U.K., the industry lobby group, said will stymie sales
and investment. The tax hit Korea National Oil Corp., which last
year spent about $3 billion in a hostile takeover of North Sea
explorer Dana Petroleum Plc.  Concern the global economy is slowing may also weigh on
sales. The International Monetary Fund on June 17 lowered its
forecast for global growth to 4.3 percent from 4.4 percent.  China Consumption  The economic recovery last year pushed energy consumption
to rise at the fastest pace since 1973. The acceleration was
driven by China, which overtook the U.S. as the biggest
consumer,  BP Plc (BP/)  said in its  Statistical Review of World Energy 
report published June 8.  The Chinese central bank has raised  interest rates  four
times since October and bolstered banks’ reserve requirements
nine times to rein in inflation. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last
week that price gains are under control, signaling an end to
monetary tightening in China may that fuel global expansion and
encourage more energy deals.  “There has been a lot of buying by Asian companies and
those acquisitions need to be integrated,” said Alex Grant,
managing director in oil and gas at Jefferies Group Inc. in
London. “But these issues are temporary and we don’t see the
trend of Asian companies buying assets as changing in the long
term.”  India is also pursuing energy assets overseas.  GAIL India
Ltd. (GAIL) , the nation’s biggest natural-gas distributor, said June 9
that it may spend as much as $2 billion on acquisitions,
including shale gas assets in the U.S. and Australia, to meet
fuel demand in India. Oil & Natural Gas Corp. and  Oil India
Ltd. (OINL) , the biggest state-run explorers, are pooling at least $8.5
billion of cash reserves as they compete with rivals including
China’s  Cnooc Ltd. (883)   “There hasn’t been as much M&A as we would have
expected,” said SVM’s McLean. “There’s still scope for more.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brad Merchant in London at 
 bmerchant3@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  