-- 
Hollywood Model Could Create New Stars in R&D: Alice Schroeder

-- B y   A l i c e   S c h r o e d e r
-- 
2011-06-29T04:01:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/hollywood-model-could-create-new-stars-in-r-d-alice-schroeder.html
How much should it cost the U.S.  Air
Force  to develop a reliable system to detect sniper fire in a
fraction of a second and pinpoint the shooter’s location almost
as fast? If you’re thinking millions of dollars, how does
$50,000 sound? The Air Force is evaluating sniper-detection
proposals, and that’s how much it will award a researcher who
provides a solution and the proof that it works.  That surprisingly low number is possible because of open
source innovation. It’s the hot trend in R&D, built on the
success of the open source software movement, itself built on
the principle that crowds can solve problems faster than any
individual, or any single corporate lab, ever will.  The open source innovation movement caught fire in the past
few years and is best known for the great leaps it enabled in
mapping the human genome. For corporate executives, open source
innovation holds out the promise of maintaining a technological
edge while lowering R&D costs. Open sourcing may also be the
best hope for the U.S. to regain its toehold as the world’s R&D
capital. The  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development  ranks the U.S. a lowly eighth in the world for
innovation based on research spending, patents and startup
funding.  But open source innovation could also be a threat. If
companies, government labs and other organizations can obtain
scientific and engineering breakthroughs on the cheap, that
could devalue the work of scientists and engineers, which
already are in short supply. Will cost pressures put a ceiling
on researchers’ pay or lead to outsourced Ph.D.s paid by the
piece, instead of with full-time jobs and benefits? If so, will
the best and brightest of tomorrow’s students choose other
careers?  Bright Minds  Public and private R&D labs that keep bright minds
employed, even if their innovations come only once a decade, are
already headed in this direction, outsourcing some projects and
collaborating with networks of strategic partners on others. In
one sense, this is capitalism at its finest, finding the most
efficient path to the best result.  Thomas Edison, founder of the world’s first industrial
research lab, made this point clearly when he said, “I shall
make electricity so cheap that only the rich will burn candles.”
The scientific brain trust that runs the U.S.’s $400 billion-a-
year government and industry R&D effort must stretch the return
on investments past what a closed lab like Edison’s could do
today.  InnoCentive Model  Enter  InnoCentive , created by  Eli Lilly & Co.  to
revolutionize the R&D process in the pharmaceuticals industry,
which was crippled by research costs. Based in Waltham,
 Massachusetts , and now owned by private-equity firm  Spencer
Trask , InnoCentive is a pioneer in open source innovation and
may well be the next R&D model.  It crowd-sources R&D work -- and its approach is stunningly
cost-effective, as its sniper challenge shows -- by dividing the
world into seekers (organizations in search of a solution to a
problem) and solvers (scientists, lawyers, engineers, students).  InnoCentive earns its fees by consulting with the seekers,
which include the  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , SAP AG and the
Rockefeller Foundation, to refine the challenges and set the
size of bounties. Then a challenge, such as how to do laundry in
space for  NASA , is broadcast to 250,000 registered solvers -- a
number the company hopes will eventually reach millions -- who
agree to sell their intellectual property to the seeking
organization if their work is chosen.  Creative Challenge  Since 2001, InnoCentive has posted 1,300 challenges and
awarded $28 million in bounties. Prizes have reached as high as
$1 million for the most difficult tasks, including finding a
biomarker for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or  Lou Gehrig ’s
disease. Money is important, but solvers also crave the creative
challenge and the emotional reward that comes from contributing
something meaningful.  The bigger the social impact of the project, the more
people sign up, as in a current Air Force project to design a
humanitarian air drop for a $20,000 bounty that has attracted
1,129 people. InnoCentive also is trying to ensure that solvers
are recognized by promoting them on its website, a badge that
potentially becomes currency on someone’s resume.  Low Odds  It might seem counterintuitive that so many would be
willing to work on problems with such low odds of getting paid.
When it was founded, the company wasn’t sure how this would
work, either. But it learned that solvers love intellectual
challenges, such as the chance to outsmart methamphetamine-lab
chemists by figuring out how to re-engineer decongestants so
they can’t be processed into illicit drugs.  Harvard professor  Karim R. Lakhani , who has studied the
company’s effect on what he calls the “productivity of problem
solving,” found that allowing as many people to work on a
problem as possible produces better solutions, especially if the
solver group is diverse.  It’s commonplace for the solutions to come from people
working outside their own disciplines. “We’ve had lawyers solve
chemistry problems,” says Robert Kinney, InnoCentive’s chief
financial officer. “We’ve had veterinarians solve food service
industry problems.”  It’s unlikely that a lawyer would come up with a dozen
compounds of heterocycle-substituted 4-trifluoromethyl
pyridines, as one current challenge seeks. But there is an array
of projects, including “ideation” challenges, in which solvers
dream up ideas to do things like keep cat-litter boxes from
smelling repulsive, or improve how boxes are unloaded from
trucks.  Financial Leverage  The financial leverage that solution seekers gain from
crowd-sourcing is “a wonderful thing,” says Diane Parente, who
studies online procurement as professor of management at Penn
State University. InnoCentive is tapping into the “peripheral
employment” market of retirees and moonlighters who want extra
money, she says. The result is a significant gain in
productivity as the seeking organization offloads a major cost,
and the risk of failure, to solvers.  But over the long term, crowd-sourcing could undermine
itself. That so many people will work for relatively modest
rewards threatens to put a ceiling on research pay. As long as
someone shows up and solves InnoCentive’s $25,000 challenge on
how to predict the location of potholes in  Boston , that’s what
the work is worth, which means InnoCentive has set the market-
clearing price for the pothole project.  Cultural Resistance  It’s not surprising that crowd-sourcing has faced some
cultural resistance at research labs. To break through,
InnoCentive created the @Work program, which lets companies
crowd-source problems to its global research organization. If
the problem isn’t solved, a company can escalate to wider
audiences. It can reach out to partners InnoCentive identifies
outside the organization, or to the entire InnoCentive solver
group. If those don’t work, it can broadcast its challenge
through a portal run by a partner such as the Environmental
Defense Fund.  The multistep process is a brilliant way to sign up
multiple solvers who would normally compete with one another. It
gives companies flexibility in using InnoCentive’s platform. On
the other hand, I would rather not be a member of a failing
research team that caused a project to be crowd-sourced.
Kinney, the InnoCentive CFO, told me that, indeed, one of the
rewards for the employees who win @Work internal challenges
could be “keeping your job, maybe.”  Financial Benefits  InnoCentive is candid in selling the financial benefits of
its work, and has commissioned studies from Forrester Consulting
that quantify how much “cost avoidance” a project can generate
by not hiring researchers or not paying university grants.
InnoCentive senior marketing director Steve Bonadio dismisses
job losses as coming in “drips, not a flood” because the goal
ultimately is to do more R&D. The real impact is on the way R&D
is bought and sold, and that raises important questions.  If the new R&D marketplace favors the multi-skilled,
entrepreneurial risk-taker, what happens to the cerebral egghead
locked in a lab who thrives in a sheltered environment? How will
it affect the cost of acquiring a doctorate, and the lifetime
earnings of a graduate? What does this mean to academia, which
is already facing formidable financial challenges?  Those are hard questions. Henry Chesbrough, faculty
director of the  Garwood Center for Corporate Innovation  at the
 University of California  at Berkeley and an InnoCentive adviser,
has sketched out a model for what the R&D world of the future
could look like.  Hollywood Culture  He makes the comparison to Hollywood’s culture of open
innovation, in which producers, directors, talent agents,
actors, screenwriters, technical workers, studio employees and
specialty subcontractors collaborate through a fluid network of
partnerships and alliances. The mobility of this workforce is
legendary, Chesbrough writes. “Every waitress is a budding
actress; every parking attendant has a screenplay he is working
on.”  Science is not entertainment, and Ph.D.s are probably not
going to be waiting tables to support their research. Even so,
Hollywood evolved by abandoning the studio system that employed
actors on contract, which resemble today’s closed research labs.
In the process, it became, and remains, the global leader in
commercial entertainment. If a similar system is the best way to
locate snipers in a fraction of a second, the R&D world will
adjust, and we should welcome it.  ( Alice Schroeder , author of “The Snowball:  Warren Buffett 
and the Business of Life” and a former managing director at
Morgan Stanley, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this column:
 aliceschroeder@ymail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Paula Dwyer at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 