-- 
HomeAway Surges in First-Day Trading After Pricing IPO at Top of Range

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-06-29T21:06:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/homeaway-surges-in-first-day-trading-after-216-million-initial-offering.html
HomeAway Inc., the vacation-rental
website operator, surged on its first trading day after raising
$216 million in an initial public offering, selling its shares
at the top end of the marketed range.  The shares climbed $13.21, or 49 percent, to $40.21 as of 4
p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market, trading under the
symbol AWAY. The Austin, Texas-based company sold 8 million
shares at $27 apiece in its IPO yesterday.  HomeAway sold about 10 percent of its common stock in its
IPO, following LinkedIn Corp. in offering a smaller stake than
most Internet companies. Enthusiasm for a wave of technology
IPOs as well as the scant number of shares offered contributed
to HomeAway’s gains, said Pat Becker Jr., who manages $2.4
billion as a principal at Becker Capital Management in  Portland ,
 Oregon .  “They’ve done well because of the limited float,” Becker
said in an interview today. “There’s just not supply to go
around and you see some enormous moves in stock prices.”  The closing price values HomeAway at $3.2 billion, or 19
times last year’s revenue. Travel booking website  Priceline.com
Inc. (PCLN)  has a market value of $25 billion, 8.1 times 2010 revenue.
 Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  trades at 2.3 times last year’s revenue and is
valued at $7.8 billion.  Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank AG,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  served as lead managers on the IPO.  Internet companies sold an average of 17 percent of their
outstanding shares in U.S. IPOs this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Zynga Inc., the biggest maker of games
for Facebook Inc.’s social-networking website, may opt to list
less than 10 percent of its shares in an IPO, a person familiar
with the plans said this month.  “Rocket Ship” Companies  Brian Sharples, HomeAway’s chief executive officer, said
his business is different than the recent “rocket ship”
Internet companies that have offered shares to the public
because it benefits from consistent growth. Property owners and
managers pay to list vacation rentals on HomeAway.com, which
vacationers can peruse without charge.  “HomeAway is really a very, very predictable business,”
he said. “We have been an above average growth company but very
stable in terms of our growth year to year.”  More than 90 percent of HomeAway’s $168 million in revenue
came from property listings last year, according to regulatory
filings. Revenue increased $48 million, or 40 percent, from
2009. The company, founded in 2005, had more than 560,000
listings in over 145 countries as of March 31, it said in a
filing.  ‘On the Map’  HomeAway expects the IPO to increase those numbers by
drawing more customers to its 31 websites, CEO Sharples said.  “Even though we have a great company, most consumers
around the world have never heard of the business,” Sharples
said in an interview today. Taking the company public “really
puts the business on the map.”  Sharples plans to attract more property managers to the
company’s sites. While professional managers control about a
third of U.S. and European rental homes, they account for 10
percent of HomeAway’s revenue, he said.  HomeAway  purchased  two vacation-rental management software
providers in 2010 in a bid to make it easier for property
managers to publish listings.  The company is trying to make more money from each listing
by adding new features, Sharples said. HomeAway recently gave
homeowners and managers the ability to accept credit cards and
e-checks online, earning a fee from each transaction, he said.  HomeAway’s biggest shareholders include Austin Ventures,
Redpoint Ventures, Technology Crossover Ventures, Institutional
Venture Partners and Tiger Global Management. None sold shares
in the IPO, according to filings. The company plans to use the
proceeds to distribute unpaid dividends on convertible preferred
stock.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Elizabeth Wollman at 
 ewollman@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  