-- 
London Stock Exchange Drops $3.4 Billion Bid for TMX Group

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-29T20:15:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/london-stock-exchange-tmx-group-terminate-3-39-billion-merger-agreement.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) 
scrapped its bid for  TMX Group Inc. (X)  after it failed to win
shareholder support, opening the door for a competing bid from a
group of banks and pension funds trying to keep  Canada ’s main
stock exchange in local hands.  The London and Toronto exchanges said they won’t proceed
with the friendly C$3.29 billion ($3.4 billion) merger because
they didn’t get the required two-thirds votes cast by proxy
ahead of tomorrow’s shareholder meeting, according to a
statement today.  The LSE termination paves the way for a rival bid from a
group of Canadian banks and pension funds to buy the Toronto
Stock Exchange owner. TMX on June 24 called the London offer
“superior” and gave no recommendation on the proposal from
Maple Group Acquisition Corp. TMX said today it will continue to
review the Maple offer.  “The fact the LSE deal is not going to happen reinforces
the Maple deal,” said William Karsh, a consultant and former
chief operating officer at  Jersey City , New Jersey-based Direct
Edge Holdings LLC. “Maple doesn’t have to bid anymore. They
don’t have to do more than complete what was announced.”  London Stock Exchange Group’s failed bid marks the third
time in two months that one of the world’s biggest equity venues
failed to close a merger aimed at restoring growth.  Nasdaq  Bid  Nasdaq OMX Inc. dropped its hostile bid for NYSE Euronext
on May 16 after regulators signaled they would block it.
Singapore Exchange Ltd. lost ASX Ltd. on April 5 after
 Australia ’s treasurer said the merger wasn’t in the national
interest.  “We are clearly disappointed that despite a majority of
both LSEG and TMX Group shareholders voting for our recommended
merger, the two-thirds approval threshold for TMX Group
shareholders was not met,” LSE Chief Executive Officer  Xavier Rolet  said in a separate statement.  LSE’s failure to buy TMX is a setback for Rolet and leaves
the London bourse vulnerable to a takeover, analysts said.  “LSE will now continue to try to execute strategy and
protect market share, but they will struggle to do that,” said
Frederic Ponzo, managing partner at London-based GreySpark
Partners, which advises financial institutions. “The position
to stay independent is becoming less and less tenable.”  “The most likely predator is Nasdaq, but a cooling-off
period will likely be in order,” Ponzo said. “It’s the one
that would make the most sense.”  Consider Alternatives  TMX Group CEO  Thomas Kloet  said in a conference call that
he’s “confident” in the company’s business plan as a
standalone entity, though the exchange owner will consider
alternatives.  “We’re going to consider all opportunities in front of
us,” Kloet said. “Obviously we will reassess the Maple bid but
without the LSE Group standard of superior offer on the table.”  Maple Group, whose 13 members include  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD) ,  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , and Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board, spent the last five weeks urging TMX
shareholders to reject the LSE bid and consider its C$3.73
billion unsolicited offer.  “We hope we may now engage in a positive dialogue with the
TMX Group board,” Maple Group spokesman  Luc Bertrand  said in a
statement. “We genuinely believe Maple’s vision represents the
best way forward for TMX Group and the Canadian capital
markets.”  Shares Rally  TMX rose 64 cents, or 1.5 percent, to C$44.20 at 4 p.m.
trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, indicating investors are
betting the C$50-a-share cash-and-stock bid from Maple bid will
go ahead. LSE rose 3.3 percent to 956 pence.  TMX “says clearly that they’re considering the Maple
offer, but I think that they’ll also consider alternatives,”
said  Ed Ditmire , an exchange analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in
 New York .  Bertrand, a  National Bank of Canada (NA)  vice chairman and
spokesman for Maple, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  “Maple will stick around. This will be a very bad loss of
faith if they bailed now,” said Yemi Oshodi, managing director
of M&A and special situations trading at New York-based
WallachBeth Capital LLC.  Approvals Needed  Maple Group required TMX shareholders to reject the London
offer for its bid to proceed. The Maple Group offer, which
expires Aug. 8, would require approvals from Canada’s
competition bureau and provincial regulators in Ontario and
Quebec.  “I hope that the Maple offer still stands,” said Mathieu Roy, an investment manager at Louisbourg Investments Inc. in
Moncton,  New Brunswick , which manages about C$1.5 billion
including about 100,000 TMX shares. “I’ve been saying all along
I prefer the Maple offer, so I can’t be too disappointed.”  TMX, which was advised by banks including BMO Capital
Markets, must pay a breakup fee of C$10 million to LSE as part
of the merger agreement. LSE was advised by  RBC Capital Markets ,
among other banks.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  