-- 
Hong Kong Protests Loom as Tsang’s Support Sinks on Widening Wealth Gap

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   R i c h a r d   F r o s t
-- 
2011-06-29T06:24:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/hong-kong-protests-loom-as-tsang-s-support-sinks-on-widening-wealth-gap.html
Hong Kong ’s widening wealth gap,
with home prices soaring 70 percent since the start of 2009, may
prompt an increased turnout in annual protests this week as the
territory’s leader suffers his lowest poll ratings yet.  Chief Executive Donald Tsang’s failure to tackle Asia’s
biggest rich-poor divide has seen his support drop to a score of
46.5 in a survey of 1,000 residents taken during the week to
June 8, the worst since he took office in 2005, the University
of Hong Kong’s Public Opinion Programme shows. Respondents were
asked to rate him on a scale from 0 to 100.  “People think Donald Tsang favors the interests of big
business, and this is the reason behind his apparent refusal to
resolve the housing issue or narrow the wealth gap,” said
 Joseph Cheng , a political science professor at  City University
of Hong Kong . “Dissatisfaction against the government is
certainly rising, and we will probably see more protests,”
including at a July 1 rally commemorating the U.K. handover of
Hong Kong to  China , he said.  Tsang’s unpopularity parallels trends across Asia, where
economic development, inflation and rising asset prices have
deepened discontent among lower-skilled workers.  Singapore ’s
ruling party saw record support for the opposition in elections
last month, and China has arrested local officials in the
aftermath of protests over abuse of power as inequality grows.  Record Poverty  A record 1.26 million among Hong Kong’s 7 million residents
lived in poverty as of mid-2010, according to a government
advisory group, even as the combined wealth of the 40 richest
surged 20 percent to $163 billion in January from a year earlier,
Forbes magazine said. The rich-poor gap is  Asia ’s widest, based
on United Nations data.  Tsang “will continue to adopt a pragmatic and balanced
approached to governance,” his office said in an e-mailed
response to a Bloomberg News inquiry. “The government would
continue to listen to public views and opinions in a humble and
open manner.”  The term of the chief executive, who is elected by a group
of people appointed by China’s central government, ends on June
30, 2012.  The support for Tsang, 66, hasn’t yet reached the lows
endured by predecessor Tung Chee-hwa, who resigned after
hundreds of thousands took to the streets calling for his ouster.
Tung oversaw a surge in unemployment and a property bust that
had thousands of homeowners owe mortgages greater than their
property values. Ex-Governor Chris Patten, who managed the Hong
Kong handover, maintained support in excess of 50.  ‘Governance Crisis’  A further dip in Tsang’s backing to level of 45 could
signal a “governance crisis,” said Robert Chung, poll director
of the Public Opinion Programme.  Planned payments of HK$6,000 ($770) per permanent resident
and the introduction of a minimum wage haven’t boosted the
popularity of Tsang, a policeman’s son. Inflation was 5.2
percent in May, the fastest pace in almost three years. China’s
top official on Hong Kong, Wang Guangya, warned the city’s
leaders this month that  home prices  may turn into a “political
problem,” and urged more care for “ordinary” residents.  Hong Kong’s retail rents have climbed 27 percent since the
start of 2009, according to Colliers International, making it
harder for smaller businesses to stay in operation without
moving to less-popular areas of the territory.  Causeway Bay  and
Central had the world’s second and third-highest retail rents
after  New York ’s Fifth Avenue, Colliers said June 13.  ‘Quite Frightening’  Hong Kong’s peg to the  U.S. dollar  means the city follows
 interest rates  set by the  Federal Reserve , which has held its
benchmark rate at a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008. To cool home price gains that Tsang called this month
“quite frightening,” the city’s government has taken measures
including releasing more land to build homes, raising minimum
down payments for homebuyers and adding a requirement that
foreign buyers deposit an additional 10 percent.  “Hong Kong has a fixed  exchange rate ; at the top of a cycle,
inflationary pressures build dramatically, Hong Kong becomes
less competitive,”  Adrian Mowat , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chief
Asia and emerging-market strategist, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television today. “And so we’d expect Hong Kong’s
growth to slow next year. We’re very bearish on Hong Kong
property, which quite frankly, is unaffordable for the bulk of
the population.”  Inflation Forecast  The city government raised last month its estimate for
inflation this year to 5.4 percent, from a previous forecast of
4.5 percent, which would be the highest since 1997. It also
increased its economic growth forecast this year to as high as 6
percent from a previous range of 4 percent to 5 percent due to
“robust” domestic demand.  “With July 1 fast approaching and public anger constantly
surging, the government should better be prepared,” Chung said
in a report accompanying the poll, which has a margin of error
of 4 percentage points.  Hong Kong police spokeswoman Janet Lui said a permit has
been issued for the rally on July 1. While declining to forecast
how many people may turn out, Lui said the organizer had applied
for a rally of 50,000.  Tsang started office with a record-high rating of 72.3 in
2005, benefitting from perceptions of competence in handling the
Asian financial crisis of 1997-98.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Frost in Hong Kong at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  