-- 
Monsanto Raises Forecast as Net Gains 77% on Herbicide Sales

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-06-29T13:41:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/monsanto-raises-full-year-forecast-on-higher-roundup-sales-shares-advance.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest
seed company, raised its full-year profit forecast and posted
third-quarter earnings that topped analysts’ estimates on higher
sales of Roundup weed killer and genetically modified seeds.  Net income climbed 77 percent to $680 million, or $1.26 a
share, in the three months through May 31, from $384 million, or
70 cents, a year earlier, St. Louis-based Monsanto said today in
a statement. That beat the $1.10 average estimate of 17 analysts
in a Bloomberg survey.  Profit excluding some items will rise to $2.84 to $2.88 a
share in the fiscal year through August, compared with a
previous prediction of $2.72 to $2.82. The average estimate of
20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was $2.82. Monsanto also said
the Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating customer
incentives for Roundup.  Roundup, the world’s best-selling herbicide, and other crop
chemicals returned to profit after a $175 million loss before
interest and tax in the year-ago quarter. Gross profit from
seeds and genetics rose 21 percent after Chief Executive Officer
 Hugh Grant  cut prices of new corn and soybean seeds in an effort
to stop gains by DuPont Co.’s Pioneer unit.  “Soybeans had better sales and gross profit than expected,
which was probably the most upside in seeds,” Chris Shaw, a New
York-based analyst at Monness Crespi Hardt & Co. who rates the
shares “neutral,” said in an interview. “It will be
interesting to see whether the market rewards them for better
Roundup earnings or discounts that as a bonus.”  SEC Probe  Monsanto rose $2.30, or 3.4 percent, to $69.20 as of 9:35
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
declined 3.9 percent this year before today.  Monsanto said the SEC probe involves customer-incentive
programs relating to glyphosate products, the generic name for
Roundup, in fiscal years 2009 and 2010. Monsanto said it
received a subpoena for documents and is cooperating.  John Nester , a SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  The company planned to spend as much as $150 million “of
incremental price concessions or trade incentives” in the
Roundup business to establish the brand in  Latin America ,  North
America  and  Europe , Carl M. Casale, Monsanto’s former chief
financial officer, said in a February 2010 conference call.  Sales in the fiscal third quarter rose 21 percent to $3.59
billion, as crop chemicals such as Roundup gained 57 percent and
seeds and gene license fees climbed 12 percent.  Fourth Quarter  Monsanto’s loss in the fourth-quarter, traditionally a
money-losing period because of crop-planting seasonality, will
be 26 cents to 30 cents a share, the company said in a
presentation posted on its website. The average estimate of 16
analysts surveyed was for a loss of 18 cents.  Roundup Ready 2 soybeans and reduced refuge corn,
Monsanto’s newest modified seeds, will meet forecasts for
planting on mid-teens millions of acres in the U.S. this year,
the company said.  High crop prices are generating record income for U.S.
farmers, according to U.S. Department of Agriculture data. That
typically helps boost demand for pricier seeds that Monsanto
engineers to kill pests and tolerate applications of weed
killer.  DuPont last year tied Monsanto for the lead in North
American corn-seed market share, and the Wilmington, Delaware-
based company said on June 14 that it gained more share this
year in corn and soybeans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 