-- 
S&P Would Lower U.S. Credit Rating to D on Failure to Increase Debt Limit

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-06-30T10:54:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/moody-s-would-likely-cut-u-s-debt-rating-to-aa-range-in-event-of-default.html
Standard & Poor’s  would cut the U.S.
credit rating to its lowest level and Moody’s Investors Service
said it will probably reduce its ranking if the government fails
to increase the debt limit, leading to a default.  S&P would lower its sovereign top-level AAA ranking to D,
the last rung on its scale if the U.S. can’t pay its debt,  John Chambers , chairman of the company’s sovereign rating committee,
said today. Moody’s said it would probably assign a position in
the Aa range, or within three steps of its highest level.  “If any government doesn’t pay its debt on time, the
rating of that government goes to D,” Chambers said today in an
interview with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside
Track”. “Having said that, we think the government will raise
the debt ceiling. They’ve raised it 78 times more or less since
1960, often at the last moment, and we think that will be the
case this time.”  President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, is trying to reach a
compromise with Republican lawmakers who are seeking spending
cuts before they agree to raise the nation’s borrowing limit,
currently capped at $14.3 trillion. The Treasury has said it has
until Aug. 2 before its ability to pay the U.S. debt expires.  One-year credit-default swaps are rising this year as
investors seek insurance in case of a U.S. default.  Default Insurance  The contracts climbed to 49.42 basis points as of yesterday
in New York from this year’s low of 20.81 basis points in April,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  By contrast, one-year credit default swaps are 36.57 basis
points for  Japan  and 143.31 basis points for  Spain , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps pay the owner
if a borrower fails to meet its debt obligations.  Ten-year Treasuries completed their biggest three-day loss
this year yesterday, sending benchmark yields up a quarter
percentage point.  The rate dropped two basis points to 3.09 percent today as
of 8:46 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices, still less than its 10-year average of 4.07 percent.  S&P put the U.S. government on notice in April that the
nation risks losing its AAA standing unless policy makers agree
on and begin “meaningful implementation” of a plan by 2013 to
reduce budget deficits and the national debt. S&P would cut the
country’s sovereign rating if a deal on the debt ceiling isn’t
reached, affecting all  Treasury securities , Chambers said.  'More Chaotic'  A U.S default would cause upheavals in world financial
markets that would be “much more chaotic” than after the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, he said.  Ratings directly linked to the U.S. government would move
in step with any sovereign action, while some Aaa rankings of
state and local governments may be vulnerable, Moody’s said in
its report yesterday.  The U.S. would risk not winning back its top Aaa credit
soon if the nation’s debt limit causes even a short-term
default,  Steven Hess , the senior credit officer at Moody’s, said
earlier this month.  A default stemming from “the debt limit and the political
configuration would indicate that, well, this might happen
again,” Hess said. “That risk is perhaps not compatible with
Aaa.”  Moody’s said on June 2 that it would put the U.S. credit
rating under review for a downgrade unless there’s progress on
increasing the debt limit by mid-July.  U.S. Debt  U.S. lawmakers are “very likely” to raise the debt
ceiling limit before Aug. 2,  Fitch Ratings  said June 21, even as
it reiterated that failure to do so would result in the country
being placed on rating watch.  Obama said in a news conference yesterday that a default
would hurt the  U.S. economy .  “The yellow light is flashing,” he said. “If capital
markets suddenly decide, ‘You know what? The U.S. government
doesn’t pay its bills, so we’re going to start pulling our money
out,’ and the  U.S. Treasury  has to start to raise  interest rates 
in order to attract more money to pay off our bills. That means
higher interest rates for businesses. That means higher interest
rates for consumers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  