-- 
Oracle Opposes HP Bid to Seal Court Records in Contract Suit

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-06-29T21:47:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/oracle-seeks-to-keep-court-records-in-the-sunshine-in-hp-contract-suit.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  asked a judge to reject
an attempt by Hewlett-Packard Co. to seal court filings in the
computer company’s breach-of-contract lawsuit against the
software maker’s decision to end support for a product.  Lawyers for  Redwood City , California-based Oracle contend
officials of  Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard
overreached when they sought to have filings sealed in a suit
over Oracle’s announcement that it would no longer support its
 database software  on Hewlett-Packard computer servers that use
the Itanium chip.  “Oracle asks the court to make clear now that this
litigation will take place in the sunshine,” the company’s
attorneys said in a filing today in state court in  San Jose ,
California.  Hewlett-Packard sued Oracle earlier this month claiming the
software maker went from partner to “bitter antagonist” by
breaching agreements with the biggest personal computer maker.
The suit cited Oracle’s hiring of Hewlett-Packard’s former Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Hurd  as one of the acts that soured the
companies’ relationship.  The computer maker’s executives also alleged Oracle
officials used “strong-arm tactics” to force customers to
“shift from HP’s Itanium server hardware to Oracle’s own server
hardware.” Oracle said in March it would no longer support its
database software on Hewlett-Packard computer servers that use
the Itanium chip, made by  Intel Corp. (INTC)   Itanium Chip  “Oracle has displayed serious contempt for the joint HP-
Oracle customers they are contractually committed to serve,”
Michael Thacker, an HP spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.
“This is an important matter for HP, Oracle and the customers
we share, and we look forward to proving our case openly in
court.”  Oracle’s decision to stop supporting the Itanium chip that
powers Hewlett-Packard’s line of Integrity servers will harm
customers who have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on the
equipment, Hewlett-Packard contends.  Hewlett-Packard has asked a  California  judge to seal
filings in its suit because they reveal confidential
information, including details of a settlement of litigation
over Hurd’s defection, Oracle’s lawyers said in today’s filing.  Hurd left Hewlett-Packard in August after a company probe
determined he violated its standards of business conduct in
connection with a woman who served as one of the company’s
contractors. The panel didn’t find Hurd had violated the
company’s sexual-harassment policy.  ‘No Basis’  Oracle’s lawyers noted in today’s filing that the
settlement of litigation over Hurd’s hiring already has been
made public and there’s no basis for sealing filings detailing
it.  Hewlett-Packard’s request “is groundless because the
settlement agreement is by its explicit terms not confidential
in an action to enforce it -- which this case purports to be,”
the lawyers said.  Hewlett-Packard is the main user of Itanium chips in
servers sold to run large corporate databases and other
demanding computing tasks, after jointly developing the chip
with Intel.  Oracle is the largest maker of database software and became
a competitor to Hewlett-Packard in servers through its
acquisition of Sun Microsystems and its Sparc range of chips.  The case is  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  v. Oracle Corp.,
111CV203163, California Superior Court, Santa Clara County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  