-- 
Morgan Stanley Said to Suffer Trading Loss on Inflation Bet

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e ,   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-06-29T20:27:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/morgan-stanley-said-to-suffer-trading-loss-after-wager-on-u-s-inflation.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , the firm targeting a
2 percent market-share gain in fixed-income trading this year,
was burned by a wager on U.S. inflation expectations in the
second quarter, three people informed of the dealings said.  The bank’s interest-rates trading group lost at least tens
of millions of dollars on the trade, which the firm has been
unwinding, two of the people said, declining to be identified
because the transaction isn’t public. Mary Claire Delaney, a
Morgan Stanley spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Traders at the bank bet that inflation expectations for the
next five years would rise in Treasury markets, while forecasts
for the next 30 years would fall, according to two of the
people. Such wagers on so-called breakeven rates involve paired
purchases and short sales of Treasuries and Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, or TIPS, in both maturities.  The loss is a setback for Morgan Stanley as it seeks to
boost revenue at its fixed-income trading unit, which last year
posted less than half the amount of U.S. rivals including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman ,
52, said in February that improving fixed-income trading
performance is his top priority.  The interest-rate group is run by Glenn Hadden, who Morgan
Stanley hired from New York-based Goldman Sachs in January. The
move was part of a larger shakeup in the business as the firm
replaced fixed-income trading head Jack DiMaio, 44, with Ken deRegt, 55. Hadden didn’t respond to a message left at his
office.  Hurt by Oil  The TIPS market was roiled last week by the combination of
a slump in the price of crude oil and a stronger-than-expected
auction of new 30-year TIPS.  Declining crude oil prices disproportionately hurt the
value of TIPS maturing within five years because they have fewer
remaining interest payments that can benefit from a rebound in
prices. The five-year breakeven rate dropped to 1.88 percent
yesterday from 2.04 percent at the end of May, indicating
underperformance by five-year TIPS relative to nominals.  The 30-year breakeven rate climbed to 2.57 percent
yesterday from 2.42 percent at the end of May, indicating
outperformance by the 30-year TIPS relative to nominals. The
June 23 auction was awarded to investors at a lower-than-
expected yield last week, a sign demand outpaced dealers’
expectations. The TIPS drew a yield of 1.744 percent, 4.8 basis
points lower than where they were trading at the auction
deadline.  ‘Tough Sell’  Morgan Stanley analyst Subadra Rajappa wrote in a note to
clients before the auction that it would likely be a “tough
sell” because of month-end balance sheet constraints and the
end of the  Federal Reserve ’s Treasury purchase operations dubbed
QE2.  The spread between the 30-year and the 5-year breakeven
rates, which Morgan Stanley was said to be short, has more than
tripled to 69.2 basis points yesterday from a low of 19.7 basis
points on May 2.  Even without the loss, Morgan Stanley’s second-quarter
fixed-income trading revenue is expected to drop from the first
quarter amid weak trading volumes, low levels of client
leverage, widening credit spreads in high-yield and sovereign
assets, and declining volatility,  Keith Horowitz , a Citigroup
Inc. analyst, wrote in a report last week.  Revenue from fixed-income trading probably will be 30
percent less than the first quarter,  Roger Freeman , an analyst
at  Barclays Capital  in New York, said in a note last week.  Market-Share Gain  Morgan Stanley is seeking a 2 percentage point market-share
gain compared with the top nine U.S. and European investment
banks, Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said earlier this
month. The firm had about a 6.5 percent market share last year,
and 6 percent in the first quarter, according to Fiona Swaffield, an RBC Capital Markets analyst.  Nine analysts have cut their earnings estimates for Morgan
Stanley in the past four weeks, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Analysts predict the firm will earn 53 cents a share,
according to the average of 22 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Morgan Stanley climbed $1.06, or 4.8 percent, to $23.39 at
4 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have fallen 14 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 