-- 
Moynihan Opts to ‘Rip Off Band-Aid’ From Bank of America’s Mortgage Wound

-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-06-29T20:28:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/moynihan-opts-to-rip-off-band-aid-from-bank-of-america-s-mortgage-wound.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  is settling
for a bigger loss on defective mortgages than Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  had forecast in January as he seeks to
distance the firm from housing bets and reverse a stock decline.  The bank agreed to pay $8.5 billion to resolve claims from
bondholders, including BlackRock Inc. and Pacific Investment
Management Co., involving soured mortgages. The Charlotte, North
Carolina-based lender said today the bill for settling with
private investors may eventually exceed $14 billion, compared
with a projection five months ago of zero to an “upper range”
of $7 billion to $10 billion.  “We support management’s attempt to rip off the Band-Aid
and get the mortgage mess behind them so investors can look
forward, but unfortunately there remain many open issues and
likely billions more in costs,”  David Trone , an analyst at JMP
Securities, said today in a note. Moynihan took a “much higher-
than-expected hit” to resolve some claims, he said.  Moynihan, 51, is resolving mortgage disputes as he focuses
on his goal of restoring the largest  U.S. bank  into a “growth
company.” The lender has been unprofitable in three of the six
quarters since Moynihan took the post at the start of 2010,
including the company’s projection of a loss of as much as $9.1
billion for the period ending tomorrow.  Bank of America declined 19 percent this year through
yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange on concern mortgage-
related costs, new international capital rules and a slowing
U.S. economy will swamp earnings. The shares rose 32 cents, or 3
percent, to $11.14 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading.  ‘Favorable Development’  The settlement will benefit the bank and may contribute to
an upgrade of one of its financial strength ratings, Moody’s
Investors Service said.  Fitch Ratings  called the accord a
“favorable development.”  The agreement covers loans with an original balance of $424
billion, or about half of the bank’s so-called private-label
deals, the company said. The accord excludes loans sold to
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , the government-owned mortgage firms.
It also doesn’t cover securities and fraud claims, and is
limited to loans initiated by Countrywide Financial Corp., which
the bank acquired in 2008.  Moynihan said last year he’d engage in “hand-to-hand
combat” fighting demands that the bank repurchase bad loans.  “We did fight,” Moynihan said today. “The cost expense
and uncertainty are taken off the table for half the private-
label claims, but we fought” views on costs that were higher
than the bank’s, he said.  $14 Billion  Bank of America disclosed $14 billion in fresh costs today
-- the $8.5 billion settlement and an additional $5.5 billion
for reserves for future loan-repurchase demands -- and said that
losses beyond that may be as much as $5 billion.  The deal follows a $3 billion settlement announced in
January to resolve some claims from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
Assuming stable housing prices, the deal “largely addressed”
those liabilities, the bank said then, and Moynihan told
investors management was “pleased to put the GSEs behind us.”  Three months later, unresolved demands for loan refunds
surged $2.9 billion to a record  $13.6 billion , fueled mostly by
claims from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, known as government-
sponsored enterprises.  “Every time they’ve given us a number, they revise it
upward 90 days later to be worse,” said  Tony Plath , a professor
of finance at the University of  North Carolina  in  Charlotte  who
follows Bank of America. “Investors will realize this is just
one more in a series of losses that the bank underestimated.”  ‘Best Estimate’  Chief Financial Officer Bruce Thompson, pressed on a
conference call to explain why the projections are rising, cited
uncertainty around U.S.  home prices  and said they were
management’s “best estimate at this point.”  Home prices fell 4 percent in April from a year earlier,
the biggest drop since November 2009, according to the S&P/Case-
Shiller index of property values in 20 U.S. cities. Sales of new
houses fell about 2.1 percent in May, the first decrease in
three months, the Commerce Department said June 23.  Bank of America is recording $6.4 billion in additional
mortgage-related costs in the second quarter, including a $2.6
billion goodwill impairment at its real estate unit. The sum
also accounts for litigation costs and fees tied to the failure
of its mortgage-servicing business to meet deadlines for
foreclosing on homes for  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac.  Late Fees  The inability to meet timelines cost the firm more than $1
billion in the six months ended March 31, Bank of America said
last month. The tally will rise as the two U.S.-owned mortgage
firms become more “aggressive” with servicers, the company
previously said.  Moynihan is seeking to boost results from commercial
lending, wealth management and investment banking and limit
damage from home loans originated before he became CEO. He named
Terry Laughlin in February as head of a new unit managing
foreclosures and soured loans.  The settlement, which also includes changes in how Bank of
America services loans, won support from 22 investors, including
the BlackRock group represented by Gibbs & Bruns LLP, the  law
firm  said today in a statement. Bank of New York Mellon Corp.,
as the trustee for the mortgage-bond deals, will direct the flow
of settlement payments.  The accord may encourage other investors to seek relief
from Bank of America,  Standard & Poor’s  said. JMP’s Trone said
the agreement could increase costs for mortgage disputes at
rival banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   MBIA, Allstate  Bond insurer  MBIA Inc. (MBI) , in suing Bank of America and
Countrywide over $21 billion of mortgage securities in New York
State Supreme Court, said its reviews had found that 91 percent
of defaulted or delinquent loans had “material discrepancies
from underwriting guidelines,” such as borrower incomes, credit
scores or debt-to-income ratios.  MBIA jumped 11 percent to $8.61 in New York trading on
speculation Moynihan is more likely to settle with the company.
 Allstate Corp. (ALL) , which said in a lawsuit last year that the
bank’s Countrywide unit misrepresented $700 million in
residential mortgage-backed securities, climbed 2.6 percent.  Moynihan’s settlement with other bondholders “confirms the
validity of investor claims and shows that Bank of America-
Countrywide is acknowledging their responsibility in the RMBS
crisis,” said Maryellen Thielen, a spokeswoman for Northbrook,
Illinois-based Allstate, in an e-mailed statement today.  Countrywide was “one of the dumbest acquisitions ever, it
really was,” said  Paul Miller , a former examiner for the
 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia  and analyst with FBR
Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia. Bank of America managers
are “getting a lot of curve balls thrown at them and they’re
doing the best job trying to hit them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  