-- 
HP Bobbles Hardware in Assault on Apple IPad: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-06-29T23:00:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/hp-bobbles-touchpad-hardware-in-apple-assault-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
In mobile devices, the buzzword
these days is “ecosystem.” Buy an iPad or an Android smart
phone, and you aren’t just spending a few hundred dollars on a
new bauble; you’re joining a universe of interconnected devices,
apps and services.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  is the latest to enter the fray. Its
purchase of Palm Inc. last year brought with it the company’s
well-regarded webOS operating system. Now HP has launched the
TouchPad, a tablet gunning for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPads, iPhones and
iOS software.  I’ve been a fan of the polished, easy-to-use webOS software
since its debut on Palm smart phones, and the good news is that
it makes the leap from phone to tablet beautifully. Moreover,
the TouchPad comes with some cool new capabilities and
accessories that might make even an Apple-lover envious.  Unfortunately, there’s not-so-good news too. You’d expect
the world’s largest computer maker to know a thing or three
about hardware. But that, surprisingly, is where the TouchPad
comes in a little light.  Make that, a little heavy. Among other problems, the
TouchPad weighs in at about 1.6 pounds (740 grams), which is a
whopping 23 percent heavier than the comparable iPad 2, and
heavier even than the original iPad.  Same Screen  There are many similarities to the iPad. Both have 9.7-inch
screens and their height and width are nearly identical. They’re
priced the same too: $500 for a Wi-Fi-only model with 16
gigabytes of storage; $600 with 32 gigabytes. TouchPads with
built-in wireless data service from  AT&T Inc. (T)  are promised for
later in the year.  By controlling both the software and the hardware, HP can,
like Apple, create a largely seamless user experience. Learn the
webOS interface -- with its “card” metaphor, you simply flick
a window to dismiss an application -- on one device, and you
know how to use it on any.  In some areas, HP has even Apple beat. For instance, you
can pair the TouchPad and HP’s coming Pre 3 phone just by
tapping them together, and then pass information wirelessly
between them. Once I got the hang of it, which took a while, I
could find a Web site on the Pre, then toss it onto the
TouchPad’s larger screen.  With the Pre in my pocket, I was also able to answer
incoming calls and receive and send  text messages  directly on
the TouchPad.  Sluggish Response  For all those whiz-bang features, though, the TouchPad
sometimes struggles with the basics. The tablet, which is run by
a  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  microprocessor, can feel sluggish and
underpowered. When I turned it from portrait to landscape mode,
it took a moment for the screen to properly reorient itself, and
at one point I had one horizontal stack of cards and one
vertical stack on the desktop at the same time.  Battery life was less than stellar. While HP says you can
expect 8 to 9 hours of video-watching and Web surfing, I got
only 4 1/2 hours in my stress testing, which involved running
videos continuously with the screen at maximum brightness, and
Wi-Fi and Bluetooth both active. And the screen, even at the
max, was markedly dimmer than those of the iPad 2 and Samsung
Electronics Co.’s similarly sized Galaxy Tab 10.1, which runs
the tablet version of  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.  Fingerprint Magnet  The TouchPad also lacks the rear-facing camera that’s
become standard on competing tablets, most useful for shooting
video. And the glossy black plastic case is a major fingerprint
magnet.  Palm’s pre-HP challenge was attracting enough users to make
it worthwhile for developers to write apps for it. That problem
is likely to dog the TouchPad as well. Apple claims more than
90,000 programs written specifically for the iPad; HP says the
TouchPad will have about 300 at launch, plus a few thousand more
originally written for its phones and tweaked for the tablet.  The company is determined to lure developers by promising
no mere app store but something called “Pivot,” a handsome,
magazine-like online catalog. And HP says it will eventually put
webOS on many more devices, including printers and computers
that run  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows operating system, in hopes of
reaching the critical mass that will make its ecosystem
competitive.  It’s an ambitious strategy, with no guarantee of success.
Especially given the TouchPad’s hardware shortcomings, you’re
probably better off waiting for a TouchPad 2.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 