-- 
Pao de Acucar Rallies on Speculation Carrefour Deal to Succeed

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-06-29T15:28:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/pao-de-acucar-rallies-on-speculation-carrefour-deal-to-succeed.html
Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao
Grupo Pao de Acucar rallied for a second day in Sao Paulo as
speculation mounted that a plan to merge the retailer with
 Carrefour SA (CA) ’s Brazilian assets will succeed.  Pao de Acucar gained 7.7 percent to 78.91 reais at 11:07
a.m.  New York  time, and earlier rose as much as 12 percent. The
stock jumped 13 percent yesterday, reaching a record.  Banco BTG Pactual SA investment fund Gama proposed the
merger yesterday, spurring opposition from Carrefour rival
 Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO) , which partly owns Pao de Acucar
and called the plan “illegal.” While Casino could veto the
deal or seek better terms, the current proposal may value the
combined company at 92 reais a share, according to Banco
Santander SA. Investors are betting the plan will succeed, said
Julia Monteiro, an analyst at Ativa Corretora in Rio de Janeiro.  “I think it could in fact go through,” said Monteiro, who
recommends buying Pao de Acucar. Still, she said, “it won’t
happen overnight.”  Casino owns 37 percent of Pao de Acucar and, under a 2005
accord, would gain control of the company next year. Yesterday’s
proposal would make majority control by Casino impossible and
limit its voting power, according to a note to clients today
from Banco Bradesco SA analysts Ricardo Boiati and Alan Cardoso.  Under the merger proposal, Gama would buy all Pao de Acucar
shares and Carrefour’s Brazilian assets and would be listed in
 Sao Paulo  and New York. Investors would receive 0.95 Gama share
for each preferred Pao de Acucar share held.  The combined companies would save 700 million euros ($1
billion) a year, according to Gama. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analysts, including Andrea Teixeira, estimated savings of 150
million to 275 million euros, according to an e-mail to clients
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  