-- 
Papandreou Wins Budget Vote as Risk of Default Recedes

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-06-29T15:24:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/papandreou-has-enough-votes-to-pass-austerity-bill-as-balloting-continues.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  clinched enough votes to pass the first part of an
austerity plan aimed at meeting European Union aid requirements
and staving off default for his debt-laden nation.  Papandreou won by 155 votes to 138, a wider margin than
last week’s confidence ballot, as some opposition lawmakers
abstained rather than oppose a package that is the condition for
further rescue funds. The vote was overshadowed by a 48-hour
strike and scuffles outside Parliament that saw police fire tear
gas at demonstrators protesting budget cuts and asset sales.  Greek bonds rose as approval of the 78 billion-euro ($112
billion) plan sparked optimism Papandreou can keep the country’s
coffers intact for now. Attention now shifts to a second bill
tomorrow that authorizes implementation of the measures.
Approval would allow Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos to
meet European counterparts on July 3 for talks on releasing a
fifth tranche of aid from last year’s 110 billion-euro bailout.  “Markets will calm down a little bit and the situation
will improve a little,” said  Christoph Weil , an economist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “It’s of course only a matter of
time until this starts all over again.  Greece  needs to continue
to implement its reforms, and we can tell how difficult that
is.”  Tear Gas  The yield on Greece’s two-year government bond sank 77
basis points to 25.401 today. The euro traded at $1.4395 at 6
p.m. in Athens, compared with $1.4421 when the vote started.  Clouds of tear gas engulfed the square outside Parliament
as lawmakers voted on a package whose defeat could have led to
the euro area’s first sovereign default. Greece needs to cover
6.6 billion euros of maturing bonds in August and government
officials have said they may lack the money to pay wages and
pensions by mid-July.  Smoke appeared to be billowing from the Hellenic Post
Office, opposite Parliament and in the same building as Greece’s
finance ministry, at 6:18 p.m. Riot officers and hooded youths
with clubs have clashed over the past two days as crowds swelled
to more than 20,000 and some protesters fought police, broke
windows at a  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  restaurant and burned two vans.  Papandreou has fought his legislative battle in tandem with
a drive by European officials to convince lenders to participate
in a Greek rescue. German Finance Ministry officials met with
banks and insurers in Berlin today, using a French proposal as a
blueprint for discussion, two people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Patriotic Duty  The vote followed Papandreou’s plea to lawmakers to “do
their patriotic duty” after a struggle to keep his party in
line and recruit opposition allies. He appointed a new finance
minister to stem defections, survived a confidence vote and
outlined 5.6 billion euros of additional budget measures,
including a 5 percent levy on lawmakers’ wages.  “The overriding feeling across  Europe  will be relief,”
Tobias Blattner, an economist at Daiwa Capital Markets Europe in
 London  and a former European Central Bank official, said before
the vote. “There will always be people who say it won’t really
change anything and we’ll still get a haircut, but at least it
will buy time and calm the markets.”  Parliament has now begun to debate the next stage of the
austerity plan to authorize implementation of the budget
measures. Lawmakers will vote on the matter tomorrow. European
Union President Herman van Rompuy said in a statement that “the
eyes of Europe” will be on Athens again and that a second
approval will help work on a second bailout package “proceed
rapidly.”  Victory Margin  Lawmakers who backed Papandreou today “are likely to vote
in favor also of the implementation bill,” said Tullia Bucco,
an economist at Unicredit Global Research in Milan. No time for
the vote has yet been announced.  Papandreou’s victory margin improved after five lawmakers
in Dora Bakoyannis’ opposition Democratic Alliance party
abstained. While socialist lawmaker Panagiotis Kouroublis was
expelled from the party after he voted against the bill, the
impact was neutralized after New Democracy lawmaker Elsa Papadimitriou crossed the floor to vote with the government.  EU officials had called on Papandreou to draw the widest
possible support for the austerity plan. EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said yesterday that
there is “no plan B” if the laws aren’t passed, while
 Christine Lagarde , named as the next head of the  International
Monetary Fund , called on Greece’s opposition parties to offer
support. The IMF provides about 30 percent of Greece’s bailout
funds.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said today the vote outcome
is “good news.”  State Assets  Apart from sales of state assets such as a stake in Public
Power Corp. SA, the former power monopoly, and levies ranging
from 1 percent to 5 percent on wages, Papandreou’s plan includes
higher taxes on restaurants and bars, higher heating-oil taxes
and lowering the tax-free threshold to 8,000 euros from 12,000
euros presently. Greek newspaper  To Vima  calculated the
additional burden for an average Greek family of four at 2,795
euros a year, about the same as one month’s income.  Implementing more austerity measures threatens to deepen a
three-year recession and complicate efforts to boost government
revenue. Greek gross domestic product, which contracted 4.4
percent in 2010, will shrink a further 3.8 percent this year,
according to a report from EU and IMF inspectors in June. The
nation’s debt load will peak at 166 percent of GDP next year,
and is already the biggest in the euro region’s history.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  