-- 
Papandreou Seeks to Turn Enforcer in Drive to Keep Default Danger at Bay

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 
2011-06-30T13:02:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/papandreou-seeks-to-turn-enforcer-in-drive-to-keep-default-danger-at-bay.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  may struggle to persuade investors he can implement a
$112 billion austerity plan as Parliament votes on it in the
teeth of violent street protests.  Having approved a bill yesterday setting out his strategy
for budget cuts, lawmakers have just started voting in another
ballot that Papandreou must win to start executing measures
ranging from tax increases to asset sales. That may be easier
than inflicting the plan on an economy mired in recession whose
population is already enduring an income squeeze to curb the
nation’s record budget deficit.  Protests may resume later after a general strike and crowds
of more than 20,000 people paralyzed central Athens for the past
two days in a standoff focused on Parliament as lawmakers
deliberate on Papandreou’s proposals. While approval today would
pave the way for Greece to secure a fifth tranche of money from
the European Union to prevent a default, the yield on the
country’s two-year bond is still above 26 percent.  “There is a real risk that, given the political problems,
given the process, that at some stage it’s the Greeks who give
up on the program,”  Andrew Balls , Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s head of European  portfolio management , said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “The EU partners are spectators when it comes to the Greek
political dynamics.”  Default Risk  The cost of insuring Greek sovereign debt rose 33 basis
points today to 1,978 basis points, according to CMA prices for
credit-default swaps. That signals an 82 percent probability the
nation will fail to meet its commitments within five years. The
yield on the two-year Greek government bond was down 6 basis
points at 26.763 percent.  The road in front of Parliament reopened to traffic today
after an overnight cleanup of the area, which had been strewn
with rubble used to pelt riot officers. A repeatedly torched van
nearby had been removed, though the shell of a burnt-out
newspaper kiosk remains. The protest campsite of so-called
“indignants” is still in place in the center of the square
facing Parliament.  Protest Plans  ADEDY, Greece’s largest public-sector labor union,
announced plans to hold a rally at 7:30 p.m. today. “The
struggle of the workers will continue and escalate,” it said in
an e-mailed statement. Violence scotched the union’s plans to
march on Parliament yesterday.  Lawmakers yesterday needed the protection of riot police
who frequently deployed tear gas in violent clashes with hooded
protesters. A fire at the Hellenic Post Office, on the ground
floor of the building housing the  finance ministry  opposite the
legislature, was doused by fire fighters. Police said 31
officers and 30 protesters were injured.  Culture and Tourism Minister Pavlos Yeroulanos said today
that the scenes of violence shouldn’t deter visitors. He said
that no other cities were affected and that transportation and
sites are operating normally now.  “These events, although unfortunate, were local and do not
represent in any way everyday life in the city,” Yeroulanos
said in an e-mailed statement. “Visitors in Athens continue to
enjoy a secure and tranquil environment and a very vibrant
cultural experience.”  Tax Burden  The clashes underscore the challenge Papandreou faces in
meeting EU demands for imposing further austerity on an
electorate already balking at a wave of budget cuts introduced
last year. Greek newspaper To Vima calculated the additional
burden for an average family of four at 2,795 euros ($4,034) a
year, about the same as one month’s income.  The premier prevailed in yesterday’s ballot by 155 votes to
138, a wider margin than last week’s confidence poll, as some
opposition lawmakers abstained rather than hinder the
legislation.  “The key underlying risk remains, namely, there is a
solvency gap that will require more than just fiscal
consolidation and a privatization plan,” said Antonio Garcia Pascual, chief southern European economist at  Barclays Capital .  Under the terms of the new austerity plan, Papandreou has
pledged to find buyers for state assets worth 50 billion euros
and impose levies ranging from 1 percent to 5 percent on wages.
He also plans higher taxes on restaurants and bars, higher
heating-oil taxes and lowering the tax-free threshold to 8,000
euros from 12,000 euros presently.  Revenue Shortfall  Papandreou has already struggled to implement a first
bailout agreed in April last year as  tax revenue  persistently
fell short of targets. That sparked a renewed selloff in the
country’s bonds in April as concern mounted a default was
inevitable unless a second rescue was negotiated.  European officials are now racing to prepare a second
bailout package that could help  Greece  through until 2014 and
have sought participation from the region’s banks.  Financial institutions considering a roll-over of their
Greek bond holdings are showing “growing interest” in a
possible debt buyback,  Charles Dallara , managing director of the
 Institute of International Finance , said yesterday at a meeting
with three reporters in Istanbul.  Euro region finance ministers meet in Brussels on July 3
and again on July 11.  “We still expect government debt to remain stubbornly high
over the coming years, suggesting that the government may still
be unable to borrow from the markets when any bailout package
ends,” said  Ben May , European economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. “The upshot is that any market rally in response to the
government’s victory may prove to be fairly short-lived.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  