-- 
Pemex, Mexichem Form $556 Million Vinyl Chloride Joint Venture

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-06-29T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/pemex-mexichem-form-556-million-vinyl-chloride-joint-venture.html
Petroleos Mexicanos , the state oil
company, seeks to double its production of vinyl chloride by
forming a joint venture for $556 million with Mexichem SAB, the
largest maker of plastic pipes in  Latin America .  Pemex, as the Mexico City-based company is known, is
requesting approval for the project from the nation’s antitrust
 agency , the company said on its  website  yesterday. Vinyl
chloride is used to make plastic pipes, packaging and products
for wire and cable coatings.  With the joint venture, Pemex’s vinyl chloride production
will increase to more than 400,000 tons annually by 2013, which
represents a 116 percent increase from 2010, the company said in
yesterday’s statement. The increased output “will translate
into an important improvement of Pemex’s financial results,”
Pemex said.  Mexichem, the Latin American chemical producer which has
bought more than 15 companies since 2007, will contribute about
60 percent of the investment to create the new company,
spokesman Enrique Ortega said yesterday in a telephone interview
following the announcement.  Mexichem, based in Tlalnepantla, Mexico, wants to reduce
its dependence on third-party vinyl chloride producers such as
 Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , Ortega said.  Profit at Mexichem has nearly quadrupled in four years
after takeovers that include the $350 million purchase of Ineos
Fluor from Ineos Group Holdings in March 2010, according to
company filings. The deal made Mexichem the largest producer of
calcium fluoride, a refrigerant component, the company said at
the time.  In October 2010, Mexichem’s board approved about $1 billion
in investment in the state of Veracruz to expand its domestic
production of vinyl chloride, with the option to increase the
amount by $500 million if a joint venture with Pemex was
reached, former Chairman Antonio Del Valle Ruiz said in a Nov.
24 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in  Mexico  City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Roeder at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net  