-- 
Pemex, Mexichem Seek Antitrust Approval for Joint Venture of $556 Million

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-06-29T01:21:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/pemex-mexichem-seek-antitrust-approval-for-joint-venture-of-556-million.html
Petroleos Mexicanos ,  Latin America ’s
largest oil producer and Mexichem SAB plan to invest $556
million to create a petrochemical company in a joint venture to
increase production of vinyl chloride monomer.  Pemex, as the state-owned company is known, is requesting
approval for the joint venture from the nation’s antitrust
 agency , the  Mexico  City-based company said on its website. Vinyl
chloride is used to make plastic pipes, packaging and products
for wire and cable coatings.  Mexichem, the Latin American chemical producer which has
bought more than 15 companies since 2007, will contribute about
60 percent of the investment to create the new company,
spokesman Enrique Ortega said today in a telephone interview
following the announcement.  Profit at Mexichem has nearly quadrupled in four years
after takeovers that include the $350 million purchase of Ineos
Fluor from Ineos Group Holdings in March 2010, according to
company filings. The deal made Mexichem the largest producer of
calcium fluoride, a refrigerant component, the company said at
the time.  In October 2010, Mexichem’s board approved about $1 billion
in investment in the state of Veracruz to expand its domestic
production of VCM, with the option to increase the amount by
$500 million if a joint venture with Pemex was reached, former
Chairman Antonio Del Valle Ruiz said in a Nov. 24 interview.  Mexichem, based in Tlalnepantla, Mexico, wants to reduce
its dependence on third-party vinyl chloride producers such as
 Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , Ortega said.  With the joint venture, Pemex’s vinyl chloride production
will increase to more than 400,000 tons annually by 2013, which
represents a 116 percent increase from 2010, the company said.
The increased output “will translate in an important
improvement of Pemex’s financial results,” the Mexico City-
based company said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Roeder at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net  