-- 
Philippine Beauty Queen Wins Crown on Spratly Claim Defense

-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-06-30T05:10:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/philippine-beauty-queen-wins-crown-on-defense-of-spratly-claim.html
Sarah Osorio, an 18-year-old
resident of a South  China  Sea coral outcrop, was crowned  beauty
queen  of the Philippines’ Palawan province after she backed her
country’s claims in the disputed waters.  The win shows the popular appeal of the contest for control
of the Spratlys that has sparked rising tensions between China,
the Philippines and  Vietnam , all vying for untapped oil reserves
made more lucrative by the 24 percent jump in crude prices in
the past year. The growing nationalism over the  South China Sea 
islands has seen anti-China protests in Vietnam and Chinese
gunboats firing at Philippine trawlers.  Osorio said at last week’s pageant she wanted to defend her
home islands against aggression by neighboring countries. Her
speech touched “the main issue right now,” setting her apart
from her rivals, said Rem Divino, one of the judges.  Her victory also illustrates how governments use civilians
to stake their claims to the dozens of islands, reefs and banks
that make up the  Spratlys  -- and with them rights to surrounding
seabed and any oil that’s trapped beneath it. Communities on
islands are a way of asserting jurisdiction, analyst Earl Parreno said.  “There are many ways of letting everybody know your stake
without flexing military muscle,” said Parreno, a fellow at the
Institute for Political and Electoral Reform in  Manila . “They
put up  structures , they haul people to the islands. Some of
these islands are basically uninhabitable. These are artificial
communities.”  China’s Claims  China’s  claims  to the South China Sea extend more than
1,600 kilometers (1,000 miles) south from Hainan Island.
Malaysia,  Taiwan  and Brunei also have overlapping claims.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  last week reaffirmed U.S.
commitment to defend its Philippine treaty ally, while China
June 28 said disputes in the area were a matter for the
countries involved.  “I’ve heard stories from my relatives of fishermen being
harassed by the Chinese,” Osorio said in a telephone interview.
“They don’t have the right to do that. We own Kalayaan,” as
the Spratlys are known locally.  The Philippine Navy said this month it removed territorial
markers placed by China on reefs near Palawan in May. Beijing-
based  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the nation’s biggest phone company,
last month said it had extended cellular services to cover the
Spratlys, which are known as Nansha and are deemed part of
Hainan province.  Taiwan-occupied Dongsha islands, known internationally as
the Pratas group, share the same zip code as the city of
Kaohsiung, more than 400 kilometers east.  Solar, Soil  Vietnam has installed  wind turbines  and built roads and
reservoirs on islands it occupies in the Spratlys, and this
month announced plans to develop a marine  tourism industry  there.
Soil is shipped in to grow food, according to state-run  Vietnam
News Agency .  Vietnam’s claim to the Spratlys dates back centuries,
according to a  government document . Still, the first recorded
Vietnamese child to be born there was in 2009,  Vietnamplus  said.  China’s rising naval power has rattled its Asian neighbors,
giving an opening for the U.S. to tighten military ties with
allies such as  South Korea ,  Japan  and the  Philippines , and forge
new relations with former foe Vietnam. The U.S. began drills
with the Philippines this week off Palawan and will carry out
exercises with Vietnam next month.  Jigsaw Puzzle  Efforts by China, Vietnam and the Philippines to inhabit
the islands are an attempt to prove they have occupied and
demonstrated control over them to improve their legal claim,
said Mark J. Valencia, a maritime lawyer and senior research
fellow with the National Bureau of Asian Research, said by phone
from Honolulu.  Part of the problem is “you have to also show that at the
time, or for a good period of the time, there was no protest by
the other parties,” Valencia said. “That’s certainly not the
case here over the last two to three decades.”  Sorting out the territorial claims “would become the most
complex jigsaw puzzle on earth,” he said.  The Philippines, China, Vietnam,  Malaysia  and Taiwan have
troops stationed on the Spratlys. The islands and reefs cover 5
square kilometers of land, 1 1/2 times the size of  New York ’s
 Central Park , spread over an area roughly the size of  Iraq .  Chinese studies suggest the waters sit atop more than 14
times estimates of its oil reserves and 10 times those for gas.  Oil Contracts  Philippine Energy Secretary Rene Almendras today said the
government is studying whether it can offer more oil contracts
in the South China Sea’s Reed Bank basin on top of the 15 oil
blocks presented to investors. Reed Bank is 85 nautical miles
from the Philippines and 595 nautical miles from China.  “We are staking claims to these areas because they are ours;
that’s why we are offering these to investors,” Almendras said.  While the Philippine-occupied islands have around 200
registered voters, only about two dozen stay in Osorio’s home
island of Pag-Asa at any one time, Palawan Governor Abraham
Kahlil Mitra said by phone. Keeping people there is “of big
significance that Kalayaan is part of the country,” he said.  Osorio said she stays mostly in the Palawan capital Puerto
Princesa, 500 kilometers from Pag-Asa, the biggest of the
occupied islands, which has an airstrip that juts out from
either side. The youngest child of a municipal councilor father
and accountant mother, Osorio said she stays in Pag-Asa during
the summer holiday.  Protests erupted in Hanoi this month after Chinese ships
cut survey cables of a Vietnam Oil & Gas Group vessel. Chinese
ships in March chased away a boat working for U.K.-based  Forum
Energy Plc (FEP)  that was surveying the area. A Chinese frigate fired
warning shots at Philippine trawlers on Feb. 25.  “We don’t have the capability to fight with them,” Osorio
said. “The solution to the problem is diplomacy.” 