-- 
Philippine Bonds, Peso Climb as Government’s Deficit Narrows

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-06-29T09:23:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/philippine-peso-rises-a-second-day-as-greece-debt-concern-eases.html
Philippine bonds and the peso rose
as the government reported that its  budget deficit  was lower
than last year and said it will start a bond exchange next week.  The yield on three-year bonds fell the most in almost three
weeks as the shortfall narrowed to 9.54 billion pesos ($219
million) in the five months through May from 162.1 billion pesos
a year earlier. The Philippines may start a peso bond exchange
on July 5, Deputy Treasurer Eduardo Mendiola said today.  “The budget deficit was way below last year, putting the
government very much on track for their full year target,
boosting the market’s confidence,” said Dave Estacio, a senior
fixed-income trader at First Metro Investment Corp. in Manila.
“There’s also continuing demand for bonds that are likely
eligible for swap.”  The yield on the 6.5 percent notes due October 2014 slid 21
basis points, or 0.21 percentage point, to 4.69 percent as of 4
p.m. in  Manila , according to Tradition Financial Services. The
rate was the lowest since December.  The peso gained 0.2 percent to 43.482 per dollar as of the
close in Manila, according to prices from inter-dealer broker
Tullett Prebon Plc.  The government plans to offer new 10- and 20-year bonds in
exchange for shorter-maturity notes and “is hoping” the swap
will attract similar demand to the one at the end of last year,
Mendiola said on June 21.  The Bureau of the Treasury left the size of weekly debt
auctions unchanged at 9 billion pesos in the third quarter,
according to a memo by Treasurer  Roberto Tan  to fixed-income
dealers posted on the bureau’s website today.  The  Philippines  may also sell at least 70 billion pesos of
bonds targeted at individuals within the third quarter, First
Metro Investment Corp. President Roberto Juanchito Dispo told
reporters today. First Metro has helped arrange the government’s
retail bond sales from 2001.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 