-- 
Phononic Devices’s Chips Convert Waste Heat into Electricity

-- B y   K a r e n   A .   F r e n k e l
-- 
2011-06-29T19:49:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/phononic-devices-s-chips-convert-waste-heat-into-electricity.html
In 2008, the Rockefeller Family’s Silicon
Valley  venture capital  firm, Venrock, tapped chemist-turned-
venture-capitalist Anthony Atti to evaluate promising thermoelectric
research conducted by Patrick McCann, a professor of engineering
at the University of  Oklahoma . McCann’s technology showed the
potential to use semiconductors to capture waste heat and
convert it into power, as well as to displace heat to cool
everything from personal computers to tractor-trailer
refrigeration units.  About 55 percent of all energy consumed in the U.S. returns to
the environment as wasted heat, according to energy systems
analyst A.J. Simon of the Energy Dept.’s Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory. Traditional thermoelectric devices used for
cooling are quiet, compact, and reliable, but efficiency has
been very low since they were first commercialized more than 25
years ago. McCann’s breakthrough could make them more efficient
by using new materials.  In 2009, with $1 million from Venrock and  Oak Investment
Partners , Atti and McCann exclusively licensed the technology
from the university, launching  Phononic Devices  in Raleigh,
N.C., with Atti as chief executive officer. Today, the 16-
employee company makes thermoelectric semiconductor chips that
capture waste heat and convert it into usable electric power or
-- depending on the source of heat -- provide refrigeration and
cooling.  Phononic Devices has received a total of $12 million in venture
capital from Venrock and Oak, plus $3 million from the Energy
Dept.’s Advanced Research Projects Agency Energy program. Atti
expects to start selling the devices to electronics cooling-and-
refrigeration customers near the end of 2012. Phononic Devices
is one of just seven thermoelectric device makers specializing
in energy harvesting and cooling.  Atti, a 37-year-old organic chemistry PhD, spoke recently to
Bloomberg.com contributor Karen A. Frenkel about where Phononic
Devices fits in the $25 billion waste-heat-recovery industry.
Edited excerpts of their conversations follow.  Karen A. Frenkel: What is the origin of your company’s name?  Anthony Atti: A ‘phonon’ is a particle of heat -- a thermal
sound wave that vibrates through a material. An effective
thermoelectric material insulates against heat by deflecting
phonons (heat) and causing the phonon to lose its thermal
energy. An ineffective thermoelectric material absorbs phonons
and heats up itself.  Q: What was unique about what you saw in Professor McCann’s lab
that made you recognize its promise?  A: For a thermoelectric material to effectively manage heat, it
must do two things really well at the fundamental physics level:
It has to be electronically conductive, yet thermally
insulating. Those two processes have been very difficult to
decouple. McCann presented experiments to do that with
semiconductors that have not been explored for this purpose so
far. The icing on the cake from the investment and economic
perspective was that we could manufacture the material in a
high-volume, low-cost manufacturing manner at the early stage in
the company’s life.  Q: Why hasn’t the thermoelectric industry already tried these
other semiconductors?  A: They’ve been hiding in plain sight. They’re used for other
applications like optics [and] lasers, and other areas of the
semiconductor world use them successfully -- but not for thermal
management.  Q: What does the material do and how is it different or better
from what’s out there?  A: We demonstrated that the material decouples electronic
conductivity from thermal insulation. It manipulates the
direction of electrons at the nanoscale.  Q: How does decoupling help harness waste heat?  A: Our fundamental advance allows us to deliver devices that can
provide cooling for refrigeration or waste heat recovery and
efficiently convert it into power. It can compete head-to-head
against the incumbent technology, which uses the elements
bismuth and telluride.  Q: How efficient is your chip?  A: Our materials and devices are expected to more than double
thermal-electric efficiency -- compared to conventional
thermoelectrics -- for the interval between room temperature,
which is 73F, and 248F.  Q: How is your device different from what others in the
semiconductor waste-heat and cooling area are doing?  A: There is definitely competition in the electronics cooling
area and also in high-temperature waste-heat recovery for
automotive or power plants. There is also competition in very
low-temperature waste-heat recovery -- sensors, detectors, and
wearable materials for the military. There are “pure plays” at
the very low temperature range or at the high end. We believe
that’s because operating within that low-grade temperature
sector is really hard to do. But we have the three legs:
performance (the fundamental ability to decouple thermal and
electronic mechanisms), cost (efficiency with which we can
manage heat), and manufacturability (using existing
semiconductor processing in our path to market).  Q: What’s the size of the markets you’re going after?  A: The global electronics cooling market for applications
between 70F and 250F is $4.5 billion, refrigeration is $6.5
billion, and harvesting low-grade waste heat is about $3
billion. The thermoelectric-specific market -- that is, of
modules made from semiconductor materials engineered for
thermoelectric behavior -- is $300 million in global sales
annually.  Q: Explain your business model.  A: We’ve transitioned from proof of concept to proof of chip and
are now moving into device fabrication. We are packaging the
material into a high-efficiency-semiconductor thermoelectric
device and will sell it to end users in cooling, refrigeration,
and waste-heat recovery for power. That’s the business model
today, based on the low-cost, high-volume tools available.  Q: What is the market opportunity?  A: Heat is a major problem that impacts almost every segment of
the economy, but not all heat is created equal. Incumbent
technologies can handle heat greater than 250F, which is the
power generation market, pretty well. Converting waste heat to
power is done typically with heat exchanges or industrial
boilers. Some turn it into power, some use it elsewhere in the
plant to heat up equipment, [and] some pump it out of a smoke
stack. It gets better the hotter you go. But below 250F -- low-
grade heat waste -- the incumbents don’t work that efficiently.
Our technology works very well between 70F and 250F. That’s how
Phononic is able to compete. Technologies that serve those
markets now don’t do it very well because heat in that
temperature range is notoriously difficult to deal with.  Q: Why?  A: Because there is not a lot of it. Whether a compressor, heat
exchanger, or thermoelectric device, your efficacy is dictated
by the temperature difference you can maintain from a hot to a
cold side. You need to move from hot to cold to get rid of it,
whether cooling or capturing heat for power. If that temperature
gradient is small because you’re operating at low temperatures,
efficiency is really challenging. Our data show we’re really
good at that temperature range.  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen A. Frenkel at
 kfrenkel@nyc.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  