-- 
Puerto Rico Doubles Bond Offering After $1 Billion in Bids: Muni Credit

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-06-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/puerto-rico-doubles-bond-offering-after-1-billion-in-bids-muni-credit.html
Puerto Rico, which has a  credit
rating  lower than any U.S. state, almost doubled a debt offering
after $1 billion in bids from investors for the commonwealth’s
first new money general-obligation issue since 2008.  “It’s taken us a while to do the right thing and put the
house in order, but now was the right time to go to market” as
proved by demand which was about twice the amount offered, said
Jose Otero, vice president of financing for the Government
 Development Bank , in a telephone interview.  The commonwealth added two refunding portions, totaling
about $290 million, to its planned $304 million general-
obligation sale. It also brought forward institutional pricing
because of market instability related to  Greece , Otero said.  The debt of Puerto Rico, a self-governing territory ceded
to the U.S. in 1898 after the Spanish-American War, is exempt
from federal, state and local taxes throughout the U.S. In many
states investors have to pay taxes on investments in others.  Bonds with 30-year maturities were initially priced to
yield 5.95 percent, according to the development bank, compared
with the 7.06 percent yield on a Bloomberg index of BBB rated
bonds of comparable maturity yesterday.  JPMorgan Chase & Co led firms underwriting the deal.  The securities are rated second-lowest investment grade at
BBB by  Standard & Poor’s , which raised it one step in March,
citing  Puerto Rico ’s efforts to narrow its budget gap. Moody’s
Investors Service ranks them fourth lowest, at A3. It placed the
securities on a watchlist for a possible downgrade in May,
citing problems with the territory’s public retirement system,
which is 8.5 percent funded.  Unsigned Budget  The governor hasn’t signed a budget for the fiscal year
that begins July 1. Puerto Rico’s economy, which started
shrinking in the fourth quarter of 2006, contracted 2.1 percent
in April compared with a year earlier, according to its  economic
activity index  released June 15.  Puerto Rico’s fiscal weaknesses have been mitigated because
of steps it took to address its structural budgetary problems,
said Alan Schankel, director of fixed-income research at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, which holds the debt.  “We have a generally positive perception of Puerto Rico as
a work-in-progress moving in the right direction,” Schankel
said.  General Fund  General-fund revenue in the first 10 months of fiscal 2011
increased $125 million to $6.4 billion, from the same period
last year, after Governor Luis Fortuno’s temporary 4 percent
excise tax on foreign manufacturers was passed.  The territory has also narrowed its  budget deficit  to an
estimated $610 million next year from $3.3 billion in 2009, in
part by reducing its workforce by almost 20,000 though firings
and attrition, according to the budget office.  It funds its annual budget gaps by issuing bonds backed by
revenue from a sales tax, which was instituted in 2006 after
Puerto Rico was effectively frozen from the market because of
its low credit rating. The sales tax-backed debt is rated AA- by
S&P and A2 by Moody’s, according to the  website  of Cofina, the
government’s borrowing agency.  The general-obligation bonds, which will be used to fund
infrastructure projects including repaving 361 miles (581
kilometers) of roads, are backed by government revenue including
income, property, excise taxes, and the portion of the  sales tax 
not allocated to Cofina.  Following is a description of a pending sale of U.S.
municipal debt:  BUTLER COUNTY, where  Ohio ’s  Miami University  is located,
will issue $155.6 million in revenue bonds as soon as today to
build and equip  Kettering Health Network  hospital facilities,
including an acute-care hospital. Construction of the hospital
started in 2009 and is expected to finish in the first quarter
of next year. The bonds are rated A, the sixth-highest
investment grade, by S&P. Bank of America Merrill Lynch will
lead underwriters in the sale. (Added June 28)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  