-- 
Pulp Reforms, Scott Thomas Melts, Spitfire Sale: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-06-29T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/pulp-reforms-scott-thomas-swoons-12-8-million-spitfire-london-weekend.html
Cool Britannia returns to  London 
this weekend as rock band  Pulp  reunites after a decade.  Hyde Park’s summer season continues with the three-day
Wireless Festival, where Jarvis Cocker’s group will recall the
heyday of Britpop with songs such as “Common People” and
“Disco 2000.”  Friday’s lineup includes the Black Eyed Peas, Plan B and
 Tinie Tempah . The Chemical Brothers headline on Saturday after
the Streets. Pulp tops the bill Sunday, coming after Grace Jones
and TV on the Radio. There’s plenty of names off the Glastonbury
roster, with less of the mud. Tickets are still available,
though close to selling out for July 2 and 3.  Information:  http://www.wirelessfestival.co.uk .   Saturday  Read the last postcard an artist sent before his death at
the age of 23 in the trenches of World War I.  Henri Gaudier-Brzeska lived long enough to be recognized as
one of the 20th century’s foremost sculptors. He befriended the
poet Ezra Pound, and made a phallic sculpture of Pound’s head.
You can see both the postcard and the head in a show about the
Vorticist movement (which the artist belonged to) at Tate
Britain.  Reassuringly, Gaudier-Brzeska is said to have told Pound
that the sculpted head “will not look like you.”  “The Vorticists: Manifesto for a Modern World” ends Sept.
4. Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk  or +44-20-7887-8888.  It’s easy to overlook the Rex Whistler Restaurant, which is
hidden below Tate Britain. That’s a mistake. This establishment
is famed among wine lovers for its excellent cellar and on warm
summer days (if there are any) you can dine al fresco. The  set
lunch  is 20.50 pounds ($32.80) for three courses.  Saturday Night  Kristin Scott Thomas is impossibly chic as the cheating
wife in Harold Pinter’s “Betrayal.”  The British-born actress -- who had  Yves Saint Laurent ’s
chief designer as wardrobe consultant -- acts out her affair in
reverse chronological order. In the first scene, she awkwardly
meets her former lover in a pub; in the last, she watches in
amazement as he declares his everlasting love.  Scott Thomas plays the usual icy sophisticate, melting just
enough to give glimpses of her feelings. Ben Miles is perfect as
her publisher husband. Only the lover (Douglas Henshall) seems
miscast: It’s hard to picture Scott Thomas falling for an
earnest Scotsman in suede.  “Betrayal” ends Aug. 20 at the Comedy Theatre on Panton
Street, London SW1Y 4DN. Information:
 http://www.betrayaltheplay.com  or +44-844-871-7622.  When going to the Comedy Theatre, it’s worth a visit to the
new St John Hotel, the latest outpost of chef  Fergus Henderson ,
famed for his nose-to-tail cuisine. The place is starkly
designed, as unfussy as the dishes in its restaurant, which may
include Bacon & Beans. There’s a bar tucked away in the hotel.  Sunday  A two-seater World War II Spitfire, with a documented
service record dating back to the 1940s, will be on sale at
Masterpiece London with a guide price of 8 million pounds.  The art, antique and luxury-goods fair -- which ends on
July 5 at the Royal Hospital Chelsea -- has less unwieldy items
on offer, including a Vacheron Constantin watch that reproduces
Chagall’s ceiling design for the Paris Opera.  Tickets cost 20 pounds. Information:
 http://www.masterpiecefair.com  or +44-20-7499-7470.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 