-- 
QatarGas to Supply 5 Million Tons LNG to Energia Argentina

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-06-29T11:23:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/qatargas-to-supply-5-million-tons-lng-to-energia-argentina-1-.html
Qatar Liquefied Gas Co., the largest
producer of gas cooled to a liquid for transport, said it agreed
to supply  Argentina  with 5 million tons a year of the fuel.  The accord, signed with Energia Argentina SA, will supply
LNG equivalent to 16 percent of the South American country’s
total gas demand to the Southern Cone LNG hub for 20 years
starting in 2014, the company, called QatarGas, said in an e-
mailed release today.  “Argentina is one of the world’s fastest-growing LNG
markets, which needs long-term supplies to meet its increasing
demand for natural gas,” Qatar’s Energy Minister Mohammed Al-
Sada said. “We here in Qatar are very proud to partner with
Argentina and to be able to support their energy needs, for many
years to come.”  The agreement marks the first long-term Qatari supply
agreement with a South American country and may be the largest
supply agreement since 2008, when the country agreed to sell
China National Offshore Oil Corp. and PetroChina Co. 5 million
tons a year of the fuel.  Qatar, which raised its annual capacity to produce LNG to
77 million tons earlier this year, is redirecting LNG that was
initially intended for the North American market to other
locations including China and Dubai amid rising U.S. domestic
production and reduced demand for imports.  The country began selling LNG to  South America  in 2009 when
Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Co., a second Qatari producer
of the fuel called RasGas, shipped a spot cargo to  Chile . That
was followed by spot sales to Argentina and  Brazil  last year.  The 5 million tons of LNG a year, equivalent to 244 billion
cubic feet of gas, will supply what was South America’s biggest
natural gas consumer last year, according to statistics by BP
Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  