-- 
Rand Overvaluation Putting Pressure on Current Account, Minister Nene Says

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-29T09:13:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/rand-overvaluation-putting-pressure-on-current-account-minister-nene-says.html
South Africa ’s rand is overvalued
and is putting pressure on the current-account deficit,
increasing the country’s vulnerability to external economic
shocks, Deputy Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene said.  The rand has gained 36 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of 2009, undermining the competitiveness of the
country’s exports. The shortfall in the current account, the
broadest measure of trade in goods and services, expanded to 3.1
percent of gross domestic product in the first quarter from a
revised 1 percent in the previous three months, the  Reserve Bank 
said in its Quarterly Bulletin released on June 21.  “There is no silver bullet” for addressing the rand’s
strength, Nene told reporters in  Cape Town  today. “If it
corrects itself and you have taken drastic steps to try and deal
with that, you might actually find yourself on the other side
again and trying to actually see if you can’t appreciate the
currency. There is no agreed level” for the rand.  The currency gained 0.2 percent to 6.8257 per dollar at
10:48 a.m. in Johannesburg.  While South Africa’s economic recovery is stronger than a
year ago, the foundations aren’t yet sustainable and the economy
is still “highly dependent” on expansionary fiscal and
monetary policy, Nene said in a speech to a development
conference in Cape Town.  Africa’s largest economy grew at its fastest pace in a year
in the first quarter, expanding 4.8 percent, spurred by the
lowest  interest rates  in three decades.  “Our economic growth is based on growing demand, and
demand doesn’t take off quickly,” Nene said. “Most of the
markets are on a recovery path, which is fragile at the
moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 