-- 
Raymond James to Return $300 Million in Auction-Rate Settlement

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-06-29T19:36:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/raymond-james-to-return-300-million-in-auction-rate-securities-settlement.html
Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF)  will
pay $300 million to clients who bought auction-rate securities,
moving to resolve regulators’ claims that the firm misled
investors about risk before the market froze three years ago.  Raymond James agreed to repurchase securities from
customers whose holdings have been unavailable since the $330
billion market collapsed in February 2008, the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission and the  North American Securities
Administrators Association  said today in separate releases. The
firm will also reimburse interest costs for some clients who
took loans from the firm, the regulators said.  “Raymond James improperly marketed and sold ARS to
customers as safe and highly liquid alternatives to money market
accounts and other short-term investments,” Eric Bustillo,
director of the SEC’s regional office in Miami, said in a
 statement .  Federal and state regulators have sanctioned banks
including  Citigroup Inc. (C) , UBS AG,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
Deutsche Bank AG for selling them as safe, cash-like investments
before credit markets froze. Auction-rate securities are
typically municipal bonds, corporate bonds and preferred stocks
whose rates of return are reset periodically through auctions.  More than $67 billion has been returned to investors as a
result of those settlements, the SEC said.  SEC Claim Rejected  A U.S. judge rejected yesterday claims by the SEC that
 Regions Financial Corp. (RF) ’s Morgan Keegan brokerage unit misled
investors about $2.2 billion in ARS before the market froze.  The SEC entered the fray last week in a private lawsuit
against Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc., now part of Bank of America,
alleging that the firm manipulated the ARS market. In a brief
filed at the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit, the
SEC said Merrill’s disclosures failed to inform the plaintiff of
its alleged role in “propping up” the ARS market. Citigroup in
March won the dismissal of five consolidated lawsuits filed by
investors who claimed the bank manipulated ARS prices.  St. Petersburg , Florida-based Raymond James, which resolved
the claims without admitting or denying wrongdoing, agreed to
pay a $1.75 million fine to state regulators. The SEC didn’t
impose a monetary penalty.  “I am pleased we are able to resolve this issue and
provide liquidity to clients who continue to hold ARS in their
portfolios,” Raymond James Chief Executive Officer Paul Reilly
said in a statement.  Other Steps  Raymond James  agreed to provide liquidity solutions to
customers who may not be eligible for the repurchases, to
compensate customers who sold their ARS below par value and to
participate in a special arbitration process with customers who
claim additional damages, the SEC said.  Raymond James said in a statement that client holdings of
ARS were reduced to $280 million this month from about $2.1
billion in February 2008. It provided clients with no-cost loans
after the market froze, according to the statement.  The firm announced a pretax charge of about $50 million for
the quarter ending tomorrow. Current fair value of the
securities to be repurchased is less than par value.  “We expect that our ultimate realized loss will be
substantially less as issuers refinance or redeem these
securities,  interest rates  rise, and/or collateral values
improve,” the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  