-- 
Treasury 10-Year Notes Decline for Fifth Day as Manufacturing Pace Grows

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-07-01T20:19:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/treasury-yield-is-three-basis-points-from-two-week-high-before-greek-vote.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 10-year note
yields to the highest level since May, after a report showed
manufacturing unexpectedly expanded last month at a faster pace,
reducing concern the economic recovery is stalling.  Benchmark 10-year notes slid for a fifth straight day and
had their steepest weekly loss in almost two years as Greece may
receive a second bailout to avoid default after lawmakers
approved budget cuts.  U.S. debt  was routed this week as a total
of $99 billion in notes sold in three government auctions
produced poor demand.  “We’ve got to look carefully at the speed of moving back
from the soft patch to expected growth,” said  Jim Vogel , head
of agency-debt research at FTN Financial in  Memphis ,  Tennessee .
“We do have good news on the EU political situation.”  Yields on 10-year notes rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 3.19 percent at 4:12 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
securities maturing in May 2021 dropped 9/32, or $2.81 per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 13/32.  The 10-year note yields advanced earlier today to 3.22
percent, the highest level since May 19. They increased 33 basis
points this week, the most since an advance of 37 basis points
during the five days ended Aug. 7, 2009.  Two-year note yields were up three basis points to 0.49
percent after rising yesterday to 0.51 percent, the highest
level since May 26. They had a weekly gain of 16 basis points in
their first five-day increase since April 8. They dropped over
the previous 11 weeks in longest stretch of decreases since
September through November 1984, when the Fed had switched to
cutting from raising  interest rates .  ‘Bearish Cast’  “If anything, the market has a little more bearish cast to
it,” said James Collins, an interest-rate strategist in the
futures group in Chicago at Citigroup Inc., one of the 20
primary dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve . “Next
week, when we come back, we’ll probably resume the higher trend
in yields, despite how fast yields have risen.”  Treasuries returned 2.4 percent in the second quarter after
losing 0.1 percent in the first three months of the year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Bonds fell today as the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
manufacturing index increased to 55.3 in June, from 53.5 in the
previous month. The median forecast of 77 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a drop to 52. Figures greater than
50 signal expansion.  Break-Even Rate  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the next decade known as the break-even
rate, increased to 2.41 percentage points after touching 2.42
percentage points yesterday, the widest spread since May 13.  Greece  may receive as much as 85 billion euros ($124
billion) in new financing, including a contribution from private
investors, in a second bailout aimed at preventing default and
ending the euro-region’s debt crisis, according to an Austrian
Finance Ministry official.  Euro-area nations and private investors will contribute 70
percent of that aid, with the  International Monetary Fund 
offering the rest, Thomas Wieser, head of the ministry’s
economic policy and financial markets department, said at a
briefing yesterday in Vienna.  Prime Minister  George Papandreou  secured passage yesterday
of 78 billion euros of additional budget cuts and revenue
measures needed to meet the targets of the original bailout.  ‘More Time’  “Greece certainly bought itself more time,” said  Anthony Cronin , a trader in  New York  at Societe Generale SA, a primary
dealer. “They’re not going to default, at least immediately.
Now you can focus on the economics, and the economic news hasn’t
been as disappointing as it was earlier in the month. If you see
that continue, then the selloff can accelerate a little bit.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  is trying to reach a compromise
with opposition Republican lawmakers who are seeking spending
cuts before they agree to raise the nation’s borrowing limit,
currently capped at $14.3 trillion. The Treasury Department has
said it has until Aug. 2 before its ability to pay the U.S. debt
expires.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s potential
departure from the administration would force Obama to assemble
a new economic team as he enters a re-election campaign that’s
likely to be dominated by voter concern over jobs.  Geithner has told Obama that he’s considering leaving the
administration after the president reaches an agreement on the
debt limit, according to a person familiar with the matter.  “I live for this work,” Geithner said yesterday at the
Clinton Global Initiative in  Chicago . “It’s the only thing I’ve
ever done. I believe in it. We have a lot of challenges as a
country. I’m going to be doing it for the foreseeable future.”  Note Auctions  The $35 billion offering of seven-year notes held two days
ago produced the lowest participation in more than two years
from a class of investors including foreign central banks. The
$35 billion government auction of five-year securities on June
28 drew the lowest demand in a year. A record low yield of 0.395
percent at the $35 billion offering of two-year notes a day
before that drew the weakest demand from the group including
central banks since February 2008.  Treasuries also fell this week as the Fed completed
yesterday its $600 billion program of debt buying, which was
aimed at capping borrowing costs. The central bank said
following its June 21-22 policy meeting that it would maintain
its policy of reinvesting principal payments from its securities
holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  