-- 
Reckitt’s Condoms Face Shortages Amid India Dispute

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-06-29T17:29:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/reckitt-s-condoms-face-shortages-amid-india-dispute-correct-.html
(Corrects name of spokeswoman in fifth paragraph.)  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  faces
disruption to the supply of its Durex condom range because of a
dispute with an Indian manufacturer which makes 50 percent of
the brand.  A judge at the  High Court  in  London  refused to grant an
emergency injunction forcing India’s TTK Lig to resume supplying
the contraceptives, ruling the matter should be decided in an
Indian court.  TTK Lig, a joint venture between Slough, England-based
Reckitt and a number of Indian investors, hasn’t provided any
condoms since the beginning of May following a spat over
pricing. SSL International, maker of the Durex and Scholl
brands, was taken over by Reckitt Benckiser in 2010.  TTK Lig “has the claimants for the time being over a
barrel and it knows it,” Justice George Mann said in his
ruling. Reckitt has already run out of some Durex stocks, he
said.  The clash has caused “significant supply challenges,”
said Reckitt spokeswoman Andraea Dawson-Shepherd. “We are
working with our retailers to ensure that the consumer can carry
on getting the condoms they need.”  Reckitt has started proceedings in  India  seeking to force
the Indian venture to hand over its Durex stock, while the
group’s other manufacturing facilities in China and  Thailand  are
at full capacity.  The dispute began when the Indian backers of the joint
venture replaced two Reckitt representatives on its board
and increased its prices, Mann said in his judgment.  Reckitt claims the contract is covered by U.K. law and is
gathering evidence to pursue the case in London, Dawson-Shepherd
said.  The Indian venture wasn’t represented in court. Stephen Paget-Brown, a lawyer at Travers Smith, which Justice Mann said
responded to correspondence on behalf of one of the TTK
defendants, declined to comment. No one answered a telephone
call to TTK Lig in  Chennai , India, outside regulator office
hours.  To contact the reporter on this story: Kit Chellel in London
   cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Anthony Aarons
at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  