-- 
Regulators to Stay Out of Google Fight With Wireless Operators

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-06-29T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/regulators-to-stay-out-of-google-fight-with-wireless-operators.html
Telecommunications regulators in the
U.K. and U.S. say they plan to stay out of a dispute between
mobile-phone operators and Internet companies such as  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  over who should pay for high-speed wireless networks.  “I think it’s premature to regulate,” Ed Vaizey, the U.K.
communications minister, told Bloomberg News during a conference
in Paris yesterday. “Right now this really is a matter to be
considered between companies.”  Led by European operators including  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and
 Telefonica SA (TEF) , phone companies in 2010 began demanding a new
deal from the owners of bandwidth-heavy services like YouTube
and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes. The operators face mounting costs for
building next-generation networks, and have rarely succeeded in
offering their own video or social-networking services over
those conduits.  Vaizey joined U.S. Federal Communications Commission
Chairman  Julius Genachowski  at a summit in Paris this week in
ruling out regulatory intervention for now to help wireless
operators share network costs.  France ’s Industry Minister Eric Besson, who has in the past strongly backed such measures,
softened his position, saying that the subject is ‘legitimate’
for regulators to consider.  “It would be odd to say that disrupting the companies
providing valuable services to consumers would be positive for
the broadband economy,” Genachowski said at the conference,
organized by the  Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and
Development .  Traffic Surge  Mobile data traffic is growing by more than 100 percent a
year, and the necessary investments to keep up with that growth
may drive operators’ returns below their cost of capital,
according to consultancy AT Kearney.  In the absence of a new economic model for the mobile
Internet, operators and Web companies may find stopgap,
technological solutions.  France Telecom  and  Mountain View ,
California-based Google are working on a pact that could lead to
co-operation on technologies to reduce traffic impact, two
people familiar with the situation said this month.  Such measures might include storing more content on mobile
devices, rather than sending it over wireless networks, and
finding tiny slices of radio spectrum that aren’t used by
current equipment.  Bilateral Accord  “It’s possible to do a bilateral arrangement between the
content houses and the telcos that streamlines the process of
getting the content to the end consumer,” said Morten Singleton, an analyst at Investec in  London . “If the operators
do manage to do deals with these major houses, then you could
see the need for a more general regulated approach fall away
somewhat.”  Tom Wright , a spokesman for France Telecom in Paris, and
Bill Echikson, a spokesman for Google, declined to comment.  Without careful design, co-operation between Internet
companies and telecom operators could run foul of “net
neutrality” -- the principle that all online content should be
available at equal speed -- for example, by guaranteeing quality
for one company’s services at the expense of another’s.  European Union regulators “will be looking particularly
closely for any instances of unannounced blocking or throttling
of certain types of traffic,” Internet commissioner Neelie Kroes said in April.  ‘All You Can Eat’  For now, operators are calling for a comprehensive plan for
compensation. For SFR, France’s second-biggest wireless
operator, “the economic conundrum of network deployment is
still unsolved,” Sylvie Forbin, head of European affairs at
SFR’s owner Vivendi SA, said today.  Telecom operators are also trying to move customers away
from unlimited data packages that bring in no extra revenue for
heavy use, and are even considering pricing that might reflect
network congestion at certain times of the day.  AT&T Inc. (T) , the
largest U.S. phone company, last year eliminated such ‘all-you-
can-eat’ data pricing in favor of more restrictive plans.  Still, operators are benefitting from higher data use.
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , and Telefonica,
Europe’s three largest phone companies, all saw mobile data
revenue climb by more than 18 percent last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.netvroot @bloomberg.net; 