-- 
Renault-Nissan Said to Target Agreement on AvtoVAZ Stake Purchase in July

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-06-29T15:48:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/renault-nissan-said-to-target-avtovaz-stake-buy-deal-in-july.html
Renault SA (RNO)  and its alliance partner
Nissan Motor Co. aim to reach an agreement next month to assume
control of OAO  AvtoVAZ (AVAZ) ,  Russia ’s biggest carmaker, two people
familiar with the matter said.  Renault, which currently owns 25 percent of AvtoVAZ, and
Nissan are in discussions on how to split an additional 25
percent stake, the people said, declining to be named because
the negotiations are private. The parties have previously said
they aimed to wrap up talks by the end of 2011.  Renault and Nissan are in talks to buy shares in AvtoVAZ
held by Russian Technologies Corp. and Troika Dialog, which each
of which holds 25 percent. The Togliatti-based manufacturer
dominates the Russian car market with its Lada brand. By
partnering with  AvtoVAZ (AVAZ) , the Renault-Nissan alliance aims to
increase the three brands’ combined share to 40 percent.  “The alliance is still negotiating behind closed doors
with AvtoVAZ and is not disclosing details of the negotiation,”
Rachel Konrad, a Paris-based spokeswoman for Renault-Nissan,
said today via e-mail.  Valery Kartavtsev, a spokesman for Russian Technologies,
declined to comment, as did a spokeswoman for Troika Dialog.  Renault currently holds 25 percent of AvtoVAZ, while its
Japanese partner doesn’t have a direct stake. The French
carmaker, based in Boulogne-Billancourt, may seek to raise its
stake to 35 percent, under “one hypothesis” in the talks,
Konrad said today, giving Nissan 15 percent.  Konrad was confirming comments that  Carlos Ghosn , chief
executive officer of both Renault and Nissan, made to analysts
this week. She reiterated that Renault will be the “dominant
partner” in AvtoVAZ partnership.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  