-- 
Rentricity Powers Cities Using Pressure in Water Mains

-- B y   J o h n   T o z z i
-- 
2011-06-29T20:58:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/rentricity-uses-pressure-in-city-pipes-to-make-electricity.html
Most of the drinking water in Keene, N.H., flows from two
reservoirs at an elevation several hundred feet above the city’s water treatment plant. It
arrives there at a high pressure that needs to be reduced nearly tenfold for treatment. In
February, Keene began using that excess water pressure to spin two turbines plugged
into the pipe by a New York City startup called  Rentricity , using small generators to
make electricity from water pressure that was previously dissipated by a mechanical
valve. “What we’re really trying to do is recover energy that’s just not being tapped into
and use it to make [utilities] more efficient,” says Rentricity founder Frank Zammataro.  The 53-year-old former Merrill Lynch technology executive is one of dozens of
entrepreneurs trying to capture so-called hydrokinetic power from moving water in
rivers, oceans, or, in Rentricity’s case, pipes. Such projects are distinct from traditional
hydroelectric power because they tap into existing flows, rather than dam rivers. Joe
Sweet, a researcher at the Connecticut Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation
who co-authored a report on hydrokinetics last year, says the industry is young and “it
hasn’t been really settled what’s going to be the best commercially applied technology.”
Zammataro says the economics of Rentricity’s projects are more appealing than other
types of clean energy because they can count on consistent and predictable water
flows, unlike solar or wind generators that depend on the weather. The equipment has a
40-year life span, and energy savings will cover the cost in three to 16 years, depending
on the size of the installation and the clean energy incentives in place, he adds.  Rentricity posted a small profit on revenue of almost $500,000 in 2010, Zammataro
says. The 10-employee company doesn’t develop any unique technology. Instead, he
says, Rentricity uses off-the-shelf equipment such as pumps that can run in reverse to
keep project costs low. The generator in Keene can create about 62 kilowatts of
electricity at peak flow, about the same amount of energy needed to power roughly 50
homes. It cost the city about $500,000, about half of which was paid for by a federal
clean-energy grant under the 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act,
according to Kürt Blomquist, Keene’s public works director. The energy savings will pay
for the city’s investment in eight to 11 years, he says.  In addition to the Keene site, Rentricity has a 30-kilowatt installation in western
 Pennsylvania  and three more projects in development. The largest, a 325-kilowatt
installation at a water transfer station in Palos Verdes, Calif., is scheduled to start
operating later this year. Zammataro says the company can harvest energy anywhere a
water system needs to reduce pressure, including in pipelines beneath the streets, at
transfer stations, or at treatment plants for clean or waste water. The electricity can
power the water system’s needs or be delivered back to the grid.  REGULATORY BARRIERS  Many of Rentricity’s counterparts face substantial barriers from regulators and
environmental advocates to prove that the equipment they want to place in water bodies
won’t hurt ecosystems or interfere with ship traffic. “For a startup company, it’s very
difficult to be going into a very long process before you even get into the ground,” Sweet
says. By targeting pipelines rather than natural water bodies, Rentricity avoids much of
the red tape that other hydrokinetic companies encounter. No fish swim through the
water pipes it taps, though Zammataro says he still has to get projects approved by the
 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission .  His biggest hurdle is convincing wary water managers that his systems won’t interfere
with their operations. Zammataro has testified twice before the New York City Council,
recently joining executives from three other energy startups on June 20, to urge the city
to evaluate the energy potential of its water system. The city’s Department of
Environmental Protection is cautious. “It seems imprudent to experiment with these
systems for marginal power benefit with real potential consequence to our service
reliability,” the agency’s chief of staff, Anthony Fiore, said in prepared testimony
opposing the plan.  Zammataro understands why water utilities hesitate. “This is a conservative lot for all
the right reasons,” he says. Still, vast water systems like  New York ’s, mostly powered
by gravity pulling water from sources upstate, represent tremendous opportunity for
hydrokinetic outfits. Keene’s water treatment plant processes 6 million gallons a day at
peak times. New York’s water, Zammataro estimates, might provide up to 1 percent of
the city’s energy needs: “Over 1 billion gallons of water a day flow through this city,” he
says.  To contact the reporter on this story: John Tozzi at  jtozzi2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  