-- 
Rove Tops President Obama as Drawing Card in Democrat Burton’s Fundraising

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-06-29T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/rove-tops-obama-as-drawing-card-in-democrat-burton-s-fundraising.html
One name is often missing from  Bill Burton ’s pitch for money to help Democrats keep the presidency
in 2012:  Barack Obama .  Burton, a former White House spokesman, says the specter of
political victories orchestrated by Republican strategist  Karl Rove  and billionaire industrialists Charles and  David Koch  fires
up contributors more than Obama’s accomplishments do.  “The people who are particularly motivated are really
worried about the Koch brothers and Karl Rove, and the fact that
they will have hundreds of millions of dollars to basically
advance a hard-core, right-wing agenda,” said Burton, 33, who
leads Priorities USA and Priorities USA Action, two groups
modeled after organizations Rove helped organize last year to
elect Republicans.  Seeking to raise $100 million, Burton’s fundraising
approach appeals to people whose enthusiasm for Obama has waned,
such as Wall Street investors annoyed by new financial
regulations or progressives favoring immigration overhaul or
closing the Guantanamo Bay detention camp.  “Even among donors who are people who wish President Obama
was either more or less progressive, they all feel that it is
important not to let the money on the right rule the roost,”
said Geoff Garin, Priorities USA’s chief polling expert.  To fight his rivals, Burton has chosen to emulate them. His
groups may take unlimited amounts, often from anonymous donors,
and will solicit money from political action committees,
corporations and lobbyists that Obama’s official election
committee disavowed in 2008 and still shuns in the name of good
government.  Dancing With Devil  Burton and his allies are “dancing with the devil,” said
former Wisconsin Democratic Senator  Russ Feingold , who fought in
Congress to limit campaign spending.  “I understand the impulse to fight fire with fire, but
Democrats should never be in the business of taking undisclosed,
corporate money,” Feingold said in an e-mail. “It’s bad
politics and bad strategy, because it’s a game we can’t win.”  After the Supreme Court last year voided restrictions on
campaign spending by corporations and unions in the Citizens
United case, Rove, former President  George W. Bush ’s political
mastermind, helped start groups called American Crossroads and
Crossroads GPS that spent $70 million on political ads attacking
Democrats in the 2010 campaign. Brothers Charles and David Koch,
the chairman and president of family owned Koch Industries Inc.,
have backed the libertarian Cato Institute and groups, including
Americans for Prosperity, which have spent millions supporting
state and federal candidates.  Level Playing Field  Facing that Republican fundraising firepower, Democrats who
support campaign finance limits and disclosures in theory can’t
afford to unilaterally disarm, Burton said.  “They can call me a hypocrite all they want, but we have
to level the playing field,” Burton said, sipping a Bushmill’s
Irish whiskey in a corner of the Madison Hotel bar in
Washington. “We may think that the speed limit ought to be 50,
but the  Supreme Court  says it’s 75, and so we’re not going to
keep driving 50 while Karl Rove just speeds down the highway.”  In the money hunt, people connected with Burton’s
Priorities USA refer as often as possible to “Karl Rove and the
Koch brothers” as if they were a music group, like Tom Petty &
the Heartbreakers.  ‘Bottomless and Limitless’  “The pool of money available to Karl Rove and the Koch
brothers is bottomless and limitless,” said Paul Begala, a
Democratic strategist who is advising Burton. Garin said
Priorities USA “represents a way to level the playing field
against Karl Rove and the Koch brothers.”  The Kochs “have dedicated themselves to advancing the
principles that help societies prosper and, regardless of the
attacks leveled against them, they will continue to advocate for
market-based policy solutions that can spur real  job creation 
and long term prosperity,” Melissa Cohlmia, corporate
communications director for Koch Companies Public Sector LLC,
said in an e-mail. Rove didn’t respond to messages seeking
comment.  The Democrats’ animosity toward Rove and the Koch brothers
“at times, borders on absurd,” said Matthew Wilson, a
political science professor at Southern Methodist University in
 Dallas . “It’s become almost an obsession.”  ‘Scary’ Right  Still, disenchantment among some liberal Democrats and
Obama’s slipping poll standing -- his 44 percent approval rating
in Gallup Inc.’s daily tracking poll is down 9 points since June
1 -- means “it’s probably more effective” for fundraisers “to
talk about how scary the right is than to talk about the modest,
half-measures that many on the left see from the president,”
Wilson said.  The strategy may be working. In their first two months of
operations, Priorities USA and Priorities USA Action have taken
in between $4 million and $5 million, according the Washington-
based  Center for Public Integrity .  Dreamworks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) 
Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Katzenberg was the first and
largest donor to Priorities USA, and the  Service Employees
International Union  also jumped aboard early. Burton wouldn’t
say how much they gave. Katzenberg declined to comment.  Untethered by the Supreme Court, trade groups, labor unions
and non-profit political or advocacy organizations such as
Crossroads reported spending $305 million to influence the 2010
congressional elections, more than four times as much as they
spent in 2006’s midterm balloting, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics. Tilted toward Republicans, the campaign
cash is credited with helping the party take a majority in the
U.S. House and narrow the Democrats’ edge in the Senate.  Republican Playbook  After he left the White House in February, Burton said he
and another West Wing aide, Sean Sweeney, were thinking about
starting a political consulting firm when Democratic activists
urged him to take a page from Rove’s playbook and start a group
to bolster Obama’s re-election effort.  To free their donors from federal campaign contribution
limits, Burton and Sweeney are forbidden from coordinating with
Obama’s official campaign organization or the  Democratic
National Committee .  Priorities USA and Priorities USA Action will focus on
pointing to the weaknesses of Obama’s opponents, Burton said.
The first advertisement criticized former Massachusetts Governor
 Mitt Romney , the Republican frontrunner in early polling, for
supporting a Republican plan to convert Medicare into a system
of vouchers to buy health insurance.  Naming Contributors  Burton’s groups mimic the structure of the organizations
Rove advises. Priorities USA is organized as a nonprofit issue-
advocacy group and doesn’t have to identify its donors;
Priorities USA Action is set up as an independent political
committee and will disclose contributors.  Crossroads GPS, the part of the Republican-leaning
Crossroads duo that doesn’t name donors, accounted for about $43
million out of $71 million the pair raised last year. American
Crossroads has raised $4.8 million so far this year, toward a
combined goal of $120 million for the 2012 campaign. Crossroads
GPS, which hasn’t released 2012 fundraising figures yet, said on
June 24 it plans to spend $20 million in the next two months on
ads criticizing Obama’s economic policies.  Burton spent much of 2010 criticizing secret funding of
pro-Republican political attack ads as a threat to democracy.  ‘Lack of Transparency’  “Unless a bright light is shined on the shadowy activity
of these outside groups, people aren’t going to know the facts -
- which is that with their complete lack of transparency, Lord
knows who’s participated in these races,” he said on Oct. 15.
“The president thinks that if you’re going to participate in
politics, you ought to be transparent about it.”  Jonathan Collegio, a spokesman for American Crossroads,
chided Burton and his Democratic colleagues for adopting tactics
they so vigorously attacked.  “In their previous jobs, these guys publicly declared that
money is bad for politics and that nondisclosure is bad for
democracy, but their new jobs require raising big checks from
non-disclosed sources,” Collegio said. “So the only way to
market themselves is to claim these tactics are a necessary evil
required to compete with their opponents -- the Crossroads
groups.”  The Priorities USA organizations, which will focus on the
presidential race, will coordinate with three other newly formed
Democratic groups: House Majority PAC will focus on House races,
Majority PAC will concentrate on the Senate, and American Bridge
21st Century, will conduct opposition research on Republican
candidates that other groups can use in advertising or direct
mail literature.  Burton’s campaign experience, his knowledge of issues and
his easy-going demeanor make him well-suited to woo wealthy
supporters, Begala said.  ‘Taking a Shower’  “I know a lot of people who think fundraising is
distasteful,” Begala said. “Bill’s the kind of guy who can
meet with someone and they don’t feel like taking a shower
afterward.”  Burton and Sweeney, best friends who live across the street
from one another on  Capitol Hill , were veterans of the
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and spent two years
together at the White House, where Sweeney was a senior aide to
former Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel .  Burton grew up in Buffalo,  New York , and attended the
 University of Minnesota . He met his future wife, Laura Capps,
when Burton was working on former House Majority Leader Dick Gephardt’s 2004 primary race and she was on eventual Democratic
nominee  John Kerry ’s campaign staff.  Burton’s mother-in-law, California Representative Lois Capps, keeps an apartment in their house where she stays when
she’s in  Washington .  Wooing Contributors  While he travels to New York,  Chicago ,  Los Angeles  and
other cities to woo potential contributors, Burton said his job
with  Priorities USA  lets him spend more time at home than the
White House did -- a priority with a newborn son, Oscar.  Burton wouldn’t say what he’d being paid; he acknowledges
it’s more than the $113,000 he earned at the White House last
year. He says he isn’t taking a percentage of money raised for
Priorities USA, as is typical.  Dave Levinthal, a spokesman for the Center for Responsive
Politics, a Washington nonpartisan group that tracks political
giving, said he’s skeptical whether Democrats can match
Republican fundraising, given Obama’s criticism of outside
groups and anonymous contributions.  “It remains to be seen how many big-dollar Democratic
donors are willing to compete in a game that they may, in
principle, find distasteful,” Levinthal said.  Burton doesn’t expect to raise as much money as Rove.
“Democrats don’t have that kind of money,” he said. While
Begala agreed, he said Democrats will still come out ahead of
2010 “when we did nothing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  