-- 
Russia’s Micex Gains Second Day on Oil, Greek Austerity Measures

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-06-29T15:04:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/russia-s-micex-gains-second-day-on-oil-greek-austerity-measures.html
Russia ’s Micex Index advanced for a
second day on bets OPEC may reduce output and after  Greece 
passed budget cuts.  The 30-stock Micex gauge added 0.5 percent to 1,660 by by
the 6:45 p.m. close in Moscow, paring an earlier gain of as much
as 0.9 percent. Oil producers OAO Rosneft and OAO Gazprom Neft
climbed 0.7 percent and 1.9 percent, respectively. VTB Group,
Russia’s second biggest lender, jumped 4.2 percent. The dollar-
denominated RTS Index rallied 1.1 percent to 1,894.58.  Oil, Russia’s chief export revenue earner, increased for a
second day on speculation the International Energy Agency’s plan
to release strategic reserves may prompt the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries to limit output. Stocks and oil
pared earlier gains after Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
clinched enough votes to pass the first part of an austerity
plan aimed at meeting European Union aid requirements and
staving off default for his debt-laden nation.  “Equity markets had been discounting a favorable outcome
to the vote,” Julian Rimmer, a trader of Russian shares at CF
Global Trading in  London , wrote in e-mailed comments. “This is
very clearly a short-term palliative, the respite temporary and
the longer-term viability of Greece as a sovereign credit still
very much in doubt.”  Copper for September delivery climbed a second day in  New
York . Aluminum, nickel, zinc and tin rose on the London Metal
Exchange.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, also produces
metals including steel, copper, nickel, gold, palladium and
aluminum. Oil and natural gas make up a quarter of its economic
output.  -- Editors: Linda Shen, Alex Nicholson  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  