-- 
Russia’s RTS Futures Rise as Oil Rallies Most in Seven Weeks

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-06-29T21:46:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/russia-s-rts-futures-rise-as-oil-rallies-most-in-seven-weeks.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
gained, signaling shares may rise for a third consecutive day in
Moscow, after oil, the country’s top export, capped the biggest
two-day rally in seven weeks.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in
September gained 0.1 percent yesterday and have jumped 3.4
percent in the past three sessions. Contracts on OAO Rosneft,
the country’s biggest oil company, rose 0.2 percent. Agreements
on OAO Lukoil, the country’s second largest, and OAO Gazprom,
the world’s largest gas producer, were little changed.  U.S. and emerging markets’ stocks rose, oil surged and the
dollar declined after Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
clinched enough votes to pass the first part of an austerity
plan aimed at meeting European Union aid requirements and
staving off a default. The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities
gained 2.1 percent yesterday.  “Risk assets have been given temporary respite thanks to
the short-term solution to  Greece ’s long-term crisis,” Julian Rimmer, a trader of Russian shares at CF Global Trading in
 London , wrote in e-mailed comments. “Crude becomes more
upwardly mobile, taking Russia with it.”  Crude also gained after the U.S. Energy Department said
inventories fell for a fourth week, the longest stretch of
declines this year, as imports decreased.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, also produces
metals including steel, copper, nickel, gold, palladium and
aluminium. Oil and natural gas make up a quarter of its economic
output.  Oil Advances  Crude for August delivery rose 2 percent to settle at
$94.77 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday.
That brought the two-day advance to 4.6 percent, the biggest
since May 10. Oil futures have gained 25 percent in the past
year and have fallen 11 percent in the second quarter.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.8 percent and the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 1.2 percent at 4:09 p.m. in  New
York  yesterday. The dollar declined against 15 of 16 major
counterparts, with the euro rising for the third day.  Russia’s 30-stock, ruble-denominated  Micex index (INDEXCF)  added 0.5
percent at yesterday’s close in Moscow. Oil producers Rosneft
and OAO Gazprom Neft climbed 0.7 percent and 1.9 percent,
respectively. VTB Group, Russia’s second biggest lender, jumped
4.2 percent. The dollar-denominated RTS Index rose 1.1 percent
to 1,894.58.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, gained 0.4 percent. The American
depositary receipts of OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-largest oil
producer, were unchanged, while ADRs of Russian gas export
monopoly OAO Gazprom rose 1.8 percent, the most in more than two
weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  