-- 
Russia Considers Additional Purchases of Spanish State Debt

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-06-29T14:34:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/russia-considers-additional-purchases-of-spanish-state-debt-1-.html
Russia , holder of the world’s third-
largest reserves, is considering additional purchases of Spanish 
bonds after adding debt issued by the euro-area’s fourth-biggest
economy to its list of approved investments in March.  “We are much less concerned about Spain than about  Greece 
because the government is implementing very serious measures
there,”  Arkady Dvorkovich , President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s economic
aide, told reporters outside Moscow today.  Spain aims to cut its deficit to 6 percent of gross
domestic product this year from 9.2 percent in 2010. Prime
Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero met Medvedev during the
St. Petersburg International Economic Forum earlier this month.  Russia’s National Wellbeing Fund, one of two funds the
state uses to safeguard windfall oil revenue, could buy Spanish
 government bonds  with maturities of between three months and one
year starting March 21, according to the  Finance Ministry .
Russia’s currency and gold reserves reached $520.3 billion as of
June 17, an increase of more than 8 percent this year.  Dollar Holdings  Russia may also continue to cut its U.S. dollar holdings,
Dvorkovich said, adding that the euro’s share in reserves is
“unlikely” to increase in the “near future.”  The Russian funds are managed by the central bank under
guidelines set down by the Finance Ministry. They can also
invest in state debt of Austria, Belgium, Britain,  Germany ,
Canada, Denmark, Luxembourg, Netherlands, U.S., Finland, France
and Sweden, according to the ministry.  Russia initially removed  Spain  and Ireland sovereign debt
from its investment list on Nov. 3 as the two euro-member
countries struggled to contain record deficits.  Bank Rossii probably won’t add currencies to its reserves
after expanding into Canadian and Australian dollars, central
bank Deputy Chairman Sergei Shvetsov said in a May 19 interview.  The loonie, as Canada’s dollar is sometimes known,
accounted for 0.8 percent of the stockpile at the end of 2010
and may rise to between 1 percent and 2 percent, approaching the
level of the Japanese yen, central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev
said in December.  Russia’s addition of Canadian dollars came at the expense
of British pound, the central bank said May 16. The regulator
raised the U.S. currency’s portion by 0.7 percentage point to
45.2 percent as of Jan. 1, while reducing the euro’s share by
the same amount. The yen made up made up 1.6 percent of the
total at the start of the year, up from 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 