-- 
Russia May Pause Six-Month Monetary Tightening on Inflation, Debt Crisis

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-06-30T07:44:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/russia-may-pause-six-month-monetary-tightening-on-prices-crisis.html
Russia ’s central bank may refrain
from monetary tightening for the first time since November as
inflation slows and Europe’s debt crisis threatens to sap a
rebound in global economic growth.  Bank Rossii  will hold its refinancing rate at 8.25 percent
at a policy meeting today after two increases this year,
according to 18 of 19 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
overnight auction-based repurchase rate will be kept at 5.5
percent while the overnight deposit rate will remain at 3.5
percent and reserve ratios will be unchanged, according to three
separate surveys.  The central bank has been raising interest rates and
 reserve requirements  every month since December to soak up
excess cash and combat the fastest price growth among the so-
called BRIC countries. Risks from a slowing economy and
inflation are now balanced for the “coming months,” policy
makers said in May.  “There has been a noticeable slowdown in the weekly
inflation rate,” Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief economist at
Moscow-based Otkritie Financial Corp., said by e-mail yesterday.
That may “serve as a reason for the central bank to pass on any
active interest-rate measures.”  Investor Bets  Investors have scaled back bets for higher  interest rates .
Forward-rate agreements show the likelihood of 35 basis points
of interest-rate increases in the next three months, down from
63 basis points on May 17, Bloomberg data show.  The cost to fix payments on ruble debt using one-year swap
contracts dropped 26 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point,
from last month’s peak on May 23 to 4.805 percent today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The ruble climbed for a third day, poised for the strongest
closing level in more than two weeks and helping to tame prices
on imported goods. The currency gained 0.3 percent to 27.8849
per dollar as of 10:29 a.m. in Moscow, extending its advance
this quarter to 1.9 percent. The ruble was little changed
against the euro at 40.40, leaving it steady at 33.5167 versus
the central bank’s target dollar-euro basket.  Lowest Since 1991  Consumer prices were unchanged for two weeks this month,
failing to grow for the first time since May last year. Consumer
prices rose 9.6 percent in May from a year earlier, matching a
19-month high. Chairman Sergey Ignatiev is targeting inflation
of between 6 percent and 7 percent, the lowest level since the
 Soviet Union  collapsed in 1991.  Slower weekly price growth this month will probably bring
inflation down to 9.5 percent in June from a year earlier, VTB
Capital economists led by Alexei Moiseev said by e-mail today.  Policy makers are trying to keep inflation from cutting
into consumer incomes before parliamentary elections in December
and a presidential vote early next year. Gross domestic product
per capita should nearly double in the next decade to $35,000
from around $19,000 now, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  has said.  Consumer prices will rise no more than 5.2 percent in the
first half and another 0.3 percent to 0.4 percent in the third
quarter,  Alexei Ulyukayev , a Bank Rossii first deputy chairman,
said June 17. The central bank is “comfortable” with current
interest rates and “very likely won’t need to change them” in
the coming months, he told the Vedomosti newspaper in an
interview published June 6.  Debt Crisis  Europe ’s debt crisis is imperiling a global recovery, with
the U.S. Federal Reserve earlier this month lowering its growth
forecast for the world’s largest economy. The slowdown threatens
to erode demand for Russia’s commodities exports.  “There’s been alarming news from Europe, from the U.S.,
from  Japan ,” Elena Matrosova, a Moscow-based economist at BDO
International, a financial adviser that lists the central bank
among its clients, said yesterday by e-mail. “That’s where the
primary risks to the Russian economy are coming from.”  Urals crude, Russia’s main export blend, dropped 13 percent
from this year’s high on April 8 to $106.48 a barrel.  Russia’s economy grew 4.1 percent in the first quarter from
a year earlier, compared with 4.5 percent in the previous three
months. Industrial production, which propelled the economy’s 4
percent expansion last year, has slowed since January to the
lowest level since 2009.  Keeping Up  The country should seek growth of at least 8 percent
annually within five years to keep up with other major emerging
economies, President  Dmitry Medvedev  said in January.  The central bank began lifting borrowing costs in December
after pushing the refinancing rate to a record low of 7.75
percent. Bank Rossii raised all of its key rates in February and
April and also raised the deposit rate, used to absorb
liquidity, a further two times in December and May. Banks’
 reserve requirements  were lifted three times this year.  The increases, some of which surprised the market, were
intended by Bank Rossii to “stress its commitment to lowering
inflation,”  Yaroslav Lissovolik , chief strategist at Deutsche
Bank AG in Moscow, said by phone. Policy makers are now seeking
to manage inflation expectations by communicating its intentions
on monetary policy more clearly to the market, he said.  Money held on correspondent accounts and deposits at the
central bank, a key indicator of liquidity, has averaged 798
billion rubles ($28.6 billion) this month, down from 1.4
trillion rubles in January, Bloomberg data show.  “Excess liquidity may still be an important factor this
year because budget expenditures will grow,” Lissovolik said.
“It’s also possible we’ll have capital inflows after the
significant outflow in the preceding months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 