-- 
RWE Says German Power Prices Need to Rise to Build New Plants

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-06-29T12:00:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/rwe-says-german-power-prices-need-to-rise-to-build-new-plants.html
RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s second-largest
utility, said power prices must rise to justify the construction
of generators needed to plug a supply shortfall left by the
government’s plan to exit nuclear energy.  “The market doesn’t support new investments at the
moment,” Leonhard Birnbaum, the company’s chief commercial
officer, told reporters in Berlin today. “We’d need power to be
somewhere around 75 euros to 80 euros a megawatt-hour.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  wants to exit atomic energy
by 2022 after shutting eight nuclear plants in March after
explosions at reactors in  Japan  stoked safety concerns in
 Europe ’s biggest power market. The country’s utilities must
build 10 gigawatts of fossil fuel-fired power plants from 2013
to 2020 to plug the gap, Economy Minister Philipp Roesler said
in a speech today.  “If the German market won’t pay for the needed capacity
then we should make supply as European as possible,” Birbaum
said.  Baseload power for 2012 rose for a third day, gaining 20
cents, or 0.4 percent, to 57.10 euros ($82.22) a megawatt-hour
as of 9:51 a.m. Berlin time, according to broker data compiled
by Bloomberg. Baseload power is delivered around the clock.  Roesler said he wants to implement a law that will speed
the approval process for the construction of  power plants . He
made the comments in a speech to energy industry executives in
Berlin today.  Available Engineers  RWE “won’t build more offshore wind parks as our ability
is limited by the number of available engineers and ships,” the
management board member said. “We’re building four in parallel,
we couldn’t do five.”  A planned model whereby wind park operators get more aid
upfront will make offshore facilities in Germany “more
attractive,” he said.  Separately, RWE may miss a target of reducing its carbon-
dioxide output to about 0.45 metric tons per megawatt-hour of
power in 2020 as the nuclear exit cuts the amount of CO2-free
plants in the company’s portfolio, according to Birnbaum.  The company is sticking to a plan to slash CO2 output to
the average amongst its European competitors by then, allowing
RWE’s power plants to profit should prices for European Union
emission permits rise, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net 
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net  