-- 
Ryan Plan Hurts Women Most as Deficit Talks Comprise Only Men

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-06-29T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/ryan-plan-hurts-women-most-as-deficit-talks-comprise-only-men.html
During a recent trip to  New York ,
Democratic Senators Mary Landrieu and  Patty Murray  lamented one
aspect of the U.S. deficit talks that they say may cloud the
outcome: No women lawmakers have been at the table.  It’s a concern shared by some female colleagues, who say
programs that disproportionately serve women and children are at
risk in negotiations over where to cut federal spending. Several
of the programs were targeted by Representative  Paul Ryan  in a
budget that passed the U.S. House in April and which he and many
other Republicans see as a road map for shrinking the
government.  The budget called for reductions in food stamps, two-thirds
of whose adult recipients are women;  Pell grants , about two-
thirds of which go to female college students; Medicaid, about
70 percent of whose beneficiaries are female, and child care.
This month, House Republicans voted to cut nutritional aid to
low-income pregnant women by about 12 percent.  “You think that we’ve come such a long way,” said
Landrieu, 55, of Louisiana, who discussed the issue of women’s
lack of a presence in the debt talks with Murray at a June 13
fundraiser in New York. “And then you wake up and realize that,
in one of the most serious debates to take place in our country,
there’s not a woman in the room.”  While the Ryan budget was rejected by the Democratic-run
Senate, it will be an issue in the 2012 elections, with
Democrats and women’s groups such as Emily’s List using it to
spur fundraising. All but four  House Republicans  voted for it.  Ryan, 41, a Wisconsin Republican, dismisses the criticism,
saying lawmakers must address a national debt that the
Congressional Budget Office estimates may eclipse the size of
the economy by 2021.  Pelosi’s Gavel Gone  The complaints by Landrieu and other female lawmakers,
mostly Democrats, that they have been under-represented in this
year’s budget fights come just six months after  Nancy Pelosi 
gave up the House speaker’s gavel that had made her the highest-
ranking woman in U.S. government history.  Some lawmakers have begun to act on their concerns.  Days before the House adopted the Ryan budget, Murray, 60,
the No. 4 Democrat and only woman with a leadership post in the
Senate, helped repel an effort to cut off federal funding to
Planned Parenthood, which primarily provides family planning
services to women, as well as abortions, for which it can’t use
federal funds. This time, the  Washington  State lawmaker said
she’s “making sure that they know that we’re watching.”  The talks she’s been watching, led by Vice President  Joe Biden , collapsed last week, forcing President Barack Obama and
House Speaker  John Boehner  to take over. Women were also absent
from a separate group of senators known as the Gang of Six that
worked on a plan to reduce the long-term deficit.  Won’t Raise Taxes  Republicans are focusing on spending cuts because they are
unwilling to raise taxes or slash defense spending and
immediately pare retirement benefits. That means they’re relying
on domestic programs to produce savings, many of which mainly
benefit women.  The House voted on June 16 to scale back a program
providing nutritional assistance to 9 million pregnant and
postpartum women and their children. Democrats said the plan
would cut aid to hundreds of thousands.  The Republican budget also called for reducing Medicaid
spending by more than $700 billion over the next decade by
converting the program into block grants to the states. Twice as
many females as males benefit from the insurance system for low-
income Americans, according to the  Kaiser Family Foundation .  ‘The Debate Changes’  Medicaid is generally restricted to poor children, pregnant
women, parents of dependent children, the disabled and those 65
and older. In 2003, seven of the top 10 hospital services billed
to the program were maternity-related, Kaiser says, including
cesarean sections, fetal monitoring and labor inductions.  Another $127 billion in  savings  in the Ryan budget would
come from  food stamps .  “When women are at the table, the debate changes,” said
Senator Jeanne Shaheen, a New Hampshire Democrat. “We bring to
whatever the discussion is the experiences we’ve had as women,
and they’re different than men.”  The House budget would convert Medicare to a voucher
program in 2022, when the government would start providing a set
amount of funds for purchasing private insurance. Women make up
56 percent of Medicare recipients, and they are more reliant on
the program’s system of defined benefits because they have more
chronic health conditions and  live  an average of about five
years longer than men, according to the Census Bureau.  ‘On Your Own’  Under the Ryan plan, “if there’s a health catastrophe,
“you’re on your own,” said Terry O’Neill, president of the
Washington-based National Organization for Women. Many women
“have no savings, no ability to pay for this.”  Ryan, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, argues
that the government has no choice but to enact steep spending
cuts to put its books in order.  “Nothing hurts people living on the safety net more than a
debt crisis -- they’re the ones who are going to get hurt first,
the worst, and those are the programs that will get cut right
away,” he said. “The best thing we can do is get people back
to work and prevent a debt crisis,” he added. “Faster economic
growth and more prosperity is good for everybody no matter what
gender.”  Asked which female lawmakers had a major role in crafting
his fiscal blueprint, Ryan pointed to Representative Diane Black
of Tennessee as well as to “countless” listening sessions he
held with women colleagues.  Not Shy  Black is the committee’s only female Republican member.
She’s also one of two Republican women on the Ways and Means
Committee, which is responsible for drawing up legislation
implementing entitlement changes. Seven women Democrats serve on
the House Budget Committee.  “None of the women in our caucus are shy about letting
leadership know how we feel about any issue, debt-limit
negotiations included,” said Black, one of nine women elected
last year as part of a class of 87 Republican freshmen. “Our
budget aims to strengthen the social safety net and provide the
greatest assistance to those who need it most. Allowing programs
to go bankrupt --- which is what happens under the current
structure --- is absolutely unacceptable.”  To be sure, Democrats have been reluctant to spell out how
they would reduce the deficit with their own budget. Senate
Democrats say they’re waiting for the outcome of the deficit
negotiations.  Just a Speech  While Obama called in April for cutting $4 trillion over
the next dozen years, his administration has provided few
details on how it would do that. The nonpartisan  Congressional
Budget Office  has said his proposal is too vague to analyze.  “We don’t estimate speeches,” CBO Director Doug Elmendorf
told Ryan’s House panel on June 23.  Representative Jeff Flake of Arizona said there is
“widespread” consternation among his Republican colleagues
that Obama has been allowed to “carp at our proposal without
having a proposal of his own.”  And Democratic leaders also appointed only men to the debt
talks. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  chose two lawmakers --
Senators Daniel Inouye of  Hawaii  and  Max Baucus  of  Montana  -- to
negotiate with Biden. Pelosi named Representatives Christopher Van Hollen of  Maryland  and James Clyburn of  South Carolina .  Reid “feels very strongly that we must protect women’s
health programs from Republican extremists who want to decimate
them,” said Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for the Nevada
Democrat.  69th Place  It’s not only Pelosi’s loss of power that limits women’s
clout in Congress; it’s also their numbers. There are 93 women
in Congress, about 17 percent of all members, with 52 Democrats
and 24 Republicans in the House.  That’s a decline from the previous Congress, when a record
95 women were elected, and puts the U.S. in  69th place  on the
list of legislatures worldwide ranked by percentage of women,
according to the Inter-Parliamentary Union, a Geneva-based group
that promotes dialogue among lawmaking bodies and tracks the
number of women who serve.  Some women’s groups have taken their concerns over the
deficit negotiations to the White House.  A group of women’s associations, including NOW, recently
demanded a meeting with Obama’s budget and economic advisers,
Jack Lew and  Gene Sperling , on the lack of female representation
in the Biden talks. NOW’s O’Neill said she urged the White House
officials to push for cuts in defense spending and impose a
financial-transactions tax, to prevent cuts to Medicaid.  Sebelius, Solis  “At the very least someone of the stature of Sebelius or
Hilda Solis should be at the table negotiating with these
people,” O’Neill said she told the officials, referring to
Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius and labor
secretary Solis.  Asked their response, she said, “They wrote it down.”  The White House officials couldn’t be reached for comment.  At least one Republican lawmaker agreed that women need a
voice in the talks. “We do better when we have some of the
women in the Senate involved” on any issue, said Alaska Senator
 Lisa Murkowski .  Penny Nance, chief executive of Concerned Women for
America, a Republican-leaning coalition that promotes family
values, shares that view. “It’s a mistake” to not have women
negotiating, she said.  Added Senator Barbara Mikulski, a Maryland Democrat:
“While we’re working on the macro issues, we bring the macaroni
and cheese issues to the fore.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  