-- 
South Korea to Encourage Fixed-Rate Loans to Control Record Household Debt

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-06-29T08:00:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/s-korea-to-encourage-fixed-rate-loans-to-curb-record-home-debt.html
South Korea  said it will encourage
banks to cut lending in floating rate loans as record household
debt and rising interest charges increase risks to the economy.  Banks will be asked to lift the ratio of fixed-rate loans
to 30 percent from the current 5 percent by 2016, Lee Suk Joon,
a commissioner at the nation’s financial regulator, told
reporters today in Seoul. Lenders should also offer fewer
borrowers grace periods on repayments, the Financial Services
Commission said in a statement.  Floating-rate mortgages account for 95 percent of home
loans in South  Korea , compared with 10 percent in the U.S. and
62 percent in the U.K., according to the statement, citing
figures for 2009. That leaves the nation’s households, with a
record 801.4 trillion won ($740 billion) in debt, exposed to
higher repayments as the central bank raises borrowing costs.  “An increase in fixed-rate loans will reduce default risks
when interest rates are rising, which is good for banks in the
long run,” Ku Yong Uk, a banking sector analyst at Daewoo
Securities Co. in Seoul, said. “The measures will help keep the
household debt from becoming a real threat to the financial
system as well as the economy.”  About 40 percent of South Korean  mortgage loans , or 117
trillion won, require the borrowers to repay all of the
principal in one payment at the end of a set period, compared
with 9.7 percent in the U.S. and 7.5 percent in  Europe ,
according to the regulator.  Above OECD Average  The ratio of household liabilities to disposable income was
153 percent in 2009 in South Korea, above the 134 percent
average for member economies of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, the FSC said.  “What concerns us is the fast loan growth and vulnerable
loan structure,” said the FSC’s Lee. “Today’s measures are
intended to slow down the growth and make the loans less risky
to the economy,” he said, adding that debt levels are
“manageable” now.  Non-bank financial companies, including credit card issuers,
need to set aside more provisions for bad loans, the FSC said.
The government will provide tax incentives for borrowers to
switch to fixed-rate mortgages and to repay principal in
installments, according to the statement.  Bank of Korea board member Kang Myung Hun said on June 16
that a comprehensive response was needed to avoid causing a
crisis as the nation tackled the debt problem.  Rate Increases  The Bank of Korea’s policy board raised the benchmark
interest rate to 3.25 percent on June 10 in a unanimous vote,
citing risks of inflation and  household debt . The bank began
increasing borrowing costs from a record-low 2 percent last July.  “A sharp increase in interest rates may burst the
household-debt problem,” Kang said. “If the debt-bomb blows,
builders and lenders will be crippled and  property market  will
crash when people start to sell off their homes to repay debt.”  Fitch Ratings warned in April that it may cut  China ’s
local-currency credit rating on concern that increasing
corporate and household debt is a risk to government finances.  Rising household debt in the Nordic countries may pose a
threat to financial stability and economic developments,
 Standard & Poor’s  said on May 30, giving backing to policy
makers seeking to toughen capital standards.  Erik Lueth, a Hong Kong-based economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc., said last month that Korean households face
powerful incentives to increase their debt and hence interest
rates must rise toward or even beyond the economic growth rate.  Separately, the nation’s financial regulator released
guidelines encouraging banks with a capital adequacy ratio of at
least 10 percent to sell covered bonds, according to an e-mailed
statement today. Covered bonds are backed by assets such as
mortgages that can be sold in case of default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  