-- 
S&P Would Cut U.S. Rating to Lowest on Default, Expects Debt-Ceiling Rise

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-06-29T18:34:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/s-p-would-cut-u-s-rating-to-lowest-on-default-expects-debt-limit-rise.html
Standard & Poor’s  would cut the U.S.
sovereign rating to D, the lowest on its scale, in the event of
a default after a failure to raise the debt limit, according to
 John Chambers , chairman of the sovereign rating committee.  The U.S. credit grade following even a short-lived default
after which the government resumed making debt payments would be
determined by the company’s sovereign rating committee and would
“be dependent on facts on the ground,” Chambers said, noting
that would be standard policy for the company. Republicans are
using talks to increase the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling to press
for cuts in spending.  “We believe the debt ceiling will be raised and the
government won’t default, otherwise we wouldn’t have a AAA
rating on the U.S. government,” Chambers said in a telephone
interview from  New York . “It’s evolving as we expected.”  Derivatives traders are demanding higher prices to insure
Treasuries against default as the standoff between Congress and
the Obama administration drags on.  The costs for insuring against default for one year have
risen to 51 basis points as of June 28 from 24 basis points on
May 16, when the U.S. reached its borrowing limit, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  Moody’s View  The U.S. would risk not winning back its top Aaa credit
rating soon if the nation’s debt limit causes even a short-term
default, Moody’s Investors Service’s senior credit officer said
in an interview this month.  A default stemming from “the debt limit and the political
configuration would indicate that, well, this might happen
again,” according to Moody’s Steve Hess. “That risk is perhaps
not compatible with Aaa,” Hess said at Bloomberg headquarters
in New York on June 21.  S&P put the U.S. government on notice in April that it
risks losing its top AAA rating unless policy makers agree on
and implement a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits and the
national debt.  Reuters reported earlier today that the S&P would “deeply
cut” the U.S. credit grade if the government missed a debt
payment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  