-- 
Samsung, Medtronic, Sturgis, Google, SF Giants: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-06-29T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/samsung-medtronic-google-sf-giants-intellectual-property.html
AU Optronics Corp. (2409) , Taiwan’s second-
largest maker of liquid-crystal display panels, sued Samsung
Electronics Co. and  AT&T Inc. (T) , claiming they infringed some of
its liquid-crystal display patents.  “AUO has been damaged” by Samsung’s and AT&T’s alleged
infringements on flat-panel displays used in TVs and cell
phones, lawyers for the company said in a complaint filed June
27 in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  The allegation comes almost a month after Samsung, the
world’s largest flat-screen panel maker, sued AUO in federal
courts in Delaware and  California , alleging infringement on some
of its display patents.  Samsung also filed a complaint with the U.S. International
Trade Commission over the alleged misuse of its technology. In
the trade-commission complaint, Samsung seeks an order
prohibiting the import and sale of the LCD products used in
televisions and computer monitors.  Samsung will “actively” try to protect its patents and
customers against “groundless patent-infringement claims,” the
Suwon, South Korea-based company said in an e-mail statement
responding to the AUO suit.  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, the second-
largest U.S. wireless carrier, declined to comment on the AU
lawsuit.  AU also filed a trade-commission complaint over the display
technology. The trade agency has the power to block imports of
products found to infringe U.S. patents. If the commission
agrees to investigate Samsung’s and AU’s complaints, their
patent-infringement suits will be put on hold. The agency
typically completes its reviews in 15 to 18 months.  Samsung received the second-largest number of patents in
the U.S. last year behind International Business Machines Corp.,
IFI Claims Patent Services, a Wilmington, Delaware-based
research company, said in January.  The case is AU Optronics Corp. v. Samsung Electronics Co.
Ltd., 11-cv-00568, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Medtronic Accuses Edwards of Infringing Heart Valve Patents  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  sued Edwards Lifesciences Corp. in two U.S.
lawsuits accusing the company of infringing patents on a heart
valve system.  Edwards’s products, including the Embol-X Glide Protection
System and the Perimount Mitral Valve, use patented technology
without permission, Medtronic said in a lawsuit filed June 24 in
federal court in St. Paul,  Minnesota . In dispute are patents
6,004,330, 7,468,073, 7,503,929, and RE42,395.  Medtronic’s CoreValve unit also sued on June 27 in
California, claiming the Sapien transcatheter valve made by
Edwards infringes patent 7,892,281.  Edwards, the world’s biggest maker of heart valves,
reported a 25 percent jump in first-quarter sales in its heart-
valve therapy unit, to $244.9 million. The Perimount valve is
“the most prescribed tissue heart valve in the world,” Irvine,
California-based Edwards said in its annual report.  Sapien, in which an aortic valve is threaded into the
cardiac chamber to avoid chest-cracking surgery, is awaiting
U.S. regulatory approval. An advisory panel with the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration is scheduled to review the application
on July 20.  Sapien, as well as a competing product by CoreValve, could
generate sales of $2.4 billion and account for more than one in
three aortic valve repairs by 2015 if they are cleared for use
in the U.S.,  Larry Biegelsen , a Wells Fargo Securities analyst
in  New York , said in April. The products already have approval
in  Europe .  In both lawsuits, Minneapolis-based Medtronic, the world’s
biggest maker of heart-rhythm devices, is seeking cash
compensation for the unauthorized use of its technology, plus
orders to prevent future infringement.  Edwards and Medtronic have sued each other in the U.K. and
 Germany  as well as the U.S. over heart valve technology. Edwards
won a $73.9 million verdict in Wilmington, Delaware, in 2010
that’s being appealed by Medtronic.  The Perimount case is Medtronic Inc. v.  Edwards
Lifesciences Corp. (EW) , 11cv1650, U.S. District Court for the
District of Minnesota (St. Paul), and the Sapien case is
Medtronic CoreValve LLC v. Edwards Lifesciences Corp., 11cv961,
U.S. District Court for the Central District of California.  IV, BlueCat Sign Licensing Pact After BlueCat Sued by Infoblox  Intellectual Ventures , the patent-licensing company begun
by former Microsoft Chief Technology Officer Nathan Myhrvold,
has licensed patents to  BlueCat Networks  of Toronto, according
to a  joint company statement .  BlueCat, a provider of Internet address management
solutions, took the license for undisclosed terms. The statement
also didn’t disclose which of Bellevue, Washington-based IV’s
patents are covered by the license.  The reason the BlueCat took the license is that it’s the
target of patent litigation, the company said in the statement.  Santa Clara , California-based  Infoblox Inc.  sued BlueCat
for patent infringement in federal court in Santa Ana,
California, in December 2007, accusing the Canadian company of
infringing its patent 7,814,180.  The disputed patent, which was issued in October 2010,
covers the technology for an Internet domain name service
server.  That case is Infoblox Inc., v. BlueCat Netwowrks USA Inc,
8:10-cv-01962-JVS-MAN, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Santa Ana).  Infoblox filed a second suit in federal court in Delaware
on June 27, seeking a declaration it wasn’t infringing two
patents owned by the Canadian company.  In dispute in that case are patents 6,098,098, issued in
August 2000 and covering a system for managing the configuration
of multiple computer devices; and 6,532,217, issued in March
2003, and covering a system for automatic determination of a
network address.  In addition to the non-infringement declaration, Infoblox
also asked the court to rule that both patents are invalid.  That case is Infoblox Inc. v. BlueCat Networks USA Inc.,
1:11-cv-00567-UNA, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Google Sued for $421 Million by Paris Rival for Ad Policies  Google Inc. was sued in  France  by a local competitor over
claims the world’s largest search engine blocks rivals from
reaping advertising revenue and gives preference to its own
sites in query results.  1PlusV, a Paris-based web publisher, filed the lawsuit with
the Paris Commercial Court yesterday, seeking 295 million euros
($421 million) in damages and an order that Google post details
of alleged “anti-competitive behavior” on its French home page
for three months, 1PlusV said in an e-mailed statement.  “Google employed a number of anti-competitive practices
and unethical behavior over a period of four years to cripple
1PlusV’s ability to generate business and advertising,” 1PlusV
said in its statement. These practices include “suffocation of
technological competitors” and “manipulation of ‘natural
results.’”  1PlusV has made similar complaints against Google in two
filings to European Union competition regulators last year and
in February, saying the  Mountain View , California-based company
discriminates against so-called vertical search sites like
1PlusV. Other companies including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  have joined
with 1PlusV in asking for a review of Google’s practices.  “We have only just received the complaint so we can’t
comment in detail yet,” Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in
Brussels, said in an e-mailed statement. “We always try to do
what’s best for our users. It’s the key principle that drives
our company and we look forward to explaining this.”  The EU and U.S. federal and state antitrust regulators are
investigating Google to see whether it discriminates against
other services in its search results and stopped some websites
from accepting rival ads. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
subpoenaed Google on June 23 to review its search and
advertising practices.  Sturgis Bike Rally Sues Souvenir Distributor for Infringement  The  Sturgis Motorcycle Rally Inc. , which draws  more than
600,000 bikers and motorcycle fans  to a small town in South
Dakota every August, is suing a regional souvenir distributor
for trademark infringement.  According to the complaint filed in South Dakota federal
court on June 22,  Rushmore Photo & Gifts Inc.  is offering
merchandise to retailers falsely  designated as officially
licensed products . The rally sponsors also object to
applications the company has filed with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office to register “Officially Licensed Sturgis” and
“Sturgis Motor Classic” as trademarks.  Rushmore Photo, based in Custer, South Dakota, is acting in
bad faith, the rally sponsors claim, and has also registered and
used domain names that violate the rally’s trademarks, according
to the complaint.  The rally sponsor claims the infringement is deliberate and
that it has caused confusion in the marketplace. It says as a
result of the allegedly infringement, the rally is losing
royalty revenue, some of which in the past it donated to 90
different causes and charities in the Sturgis vicinity.  In addition to seeking a court order barring future
infringement of the marks, the rally sponsor asked the court for
awards of money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs. The
sponsor also seeks an order to the patent office to cancel
Rushmore Photo’s pending registrations that are allegedly
infringing.  Rushmore Photo didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  Sturgis Motorcycle Rally is represented by Michael C. Loos
of Clayborne Loos & Sabers LLP and  Jason M. Sneed  of Atlanta’s
Alston & Bird LLP.  The case is Sturgis Motorcycle Rally Inc., v. Rushmore
Photo & Gifts Inc., 5:11-cv-05052-JLV, U.S. District Court,
Western District of South Dakota.  Fake SF Giants World Series Gear Donated to Charity in Haiti  Counterfeit goods sold in  San Francisco  during the Giants
push toward World Series victory in 2010 are to be donated to a
charity that will distribute them to survivors of the Haitian
earthquake, the San Francisco Weekly  reported .  The merchandise, worth $150,000 if it had been legitimate,
was seized by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
according to the Weekly.  Major League Baseball gave permission for the black-market
goods to be donated to charity instead of destroyed as is the
usual case, the Weekly reported.  Federal authorities had been holding the merchandise since
the series to wait for the deadline after which the accused
vendors could no longer contest the seizures, according to the
newspaper.  Fake Designer Watches Worth $1 Million Seized in Kentucky  Fake watches worth more than $1 million were seized by
federal customs officials at a  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) 
facility in Louisville, Kentucky, WDRB television reported on
its WDRB.com website.  The watches were marked with luxury brands belonging to
Georgio Armani Spa, Cartier Ltd., Lacoste, and Breitling SA,
according to WDRB.  They were to be sent to an addressee in  Texas , the
television station reported.  Customs officials have intercepted more than 1,100
shipments of fake goods with a retail value approaching $20
million at the same UPS facility, according to WDRB.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Tom Petty Objects Use of His ‘American Girl’ at Bachmann Rally  Singer Tom Petty is sending Republican presidential
candidate  Michele Bachmann  a cease-and-desist letter complaining
of her use of his “ American Girl ” song,  according to  the
Hollywood Reporter.  The song was played as Bachmann left the stage following
her June 27 announcement of her candidacy, the newspaper
reported.  Previously Petty objected to the use of his song “I Won’t
Back Down” in the presidential campaign of  George W. Bush ,
according to the Hollywood Reporter.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 