-- 
Samsung Sues Apple Over Patents for IPhone, IPad and IPod Technology

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-06-30T01:27:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/samsung-files-patent-suit-against-apple-over-iphone-technology.html
Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s
largest computer-memory chip maker, filed another lawsuit
against  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , claiming the U.S. company infringed patents
for technology used in its iPhone and iPad devices.  “Apple has copied many of Samsung’s innovations in its
Apple iPhone, iPod and iPad products,” lawyers for the Suwon,
South Korea-based company said in a lawsuit filed yesterday in
federal court in Delaware.  Samsung also filed a complaint with the U.S. International
Trade Commission in  Washington  on June 28 seeking to block
imports of the devices containing the allegedly infringing
technology.  The suit follows litigation in at least four countries as
Samsung and Apple, the world’s largest technology company by
market value, compete in the mobile-device market. In April,
Cupertino, California-based Apple sued Samsung in federal court
in Oakland,  California , alleging the Korean company’s Galaxy
phone and table computers “slavishly” copy the iPhone and
iPad.  “They seem to have a lot to talk about,” Seo Won Seok, a
Seoul-based analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co., said.
“With these steps they are taking now, they seem to be trying
to take a favorable position as part of the process to reach an
agreement on cross-licensing in the end.”  Prior to the latest lawsuit, Samsung, which also supplies
memory chips for Apple, had sued Apple in Seoul,  Tokyo ,  San
Francisco  and Mannheim,  Germany . Apple also has a case pending
against Samsung in South Korea.  Trudy Muller, an Apple spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the suit.  Samsung’s  Delaware  suit will be delayed if federal
regulators agree to investigate the company’s complaints against
Apple. The trade commission typically completes its reviews in
15 to 18 months.  Apple’s April 15 complaint claims Samsung is infringing
seven patents related to the way Galaxy devices’ touch screens
understand user gestures, including selecting, scrolling,
pinching and zooming. Samsung is also copying three patents on
the design, including the flat black face of the iPhone and
iPad, according to Apple.  Apple also said on April 18 that Samsung “blatantly”
copied its technologies and designs.  Samsung had asked a federal judge in the U.S. to order
Apple to turn over samples of Apple’s forthcoming iPads and
iPhones. It lost that bid on June 22.  The latest case is Samsung Electronics Co. v. Apple Inc.,
11-cv-00573, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  