-- 
Samsung Takes Apple Dispute to ITC to Block IPhone Imports

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-06-29T14:53:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/samsung-files-itc-patent-complaint-against-apple.html
Samsung Electronics Co. escalated
its legal dispute with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  over smartphone patents,
filing a trade complaint that seeks to block U.S. imports of the
iPhone, iPod and iPad.  Samsung, the world’s second-largest maker of mobile phones
whose Galaxy devices compete with the iPhone and iPad, claims
Apple is infringing five patents, according to a  filing  with the
U.S. International Trade Commission in  Washington  yesterday. The
ITC, which can block imports of products found to violate U.S.
patents, must decide if it will investigate Samsung’s claims.  The case by Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung adds to
lawsuits in at least four countries as the companies vie for
share of the mobile-device market and use the courts to try and
gain access to samples of products the other has in development.
The dispute began in April when Cupertino, California-based
Apple claimed in a U.S. lawsuit that Samsung’s Galaxy phone and
tablet computers “slavishly” copy the iPhone and iPad.  Samsung, which also supplies memory chips for Apple,
retaliated with lawsuits in Seoul,  Tokyo ,  San Francisco  and
Mannheim,  Germany . Apple also has a civil suit pending against
Samsung in South Korea.  The patents in the ITC case are related to ways to transmit
multiple services over a wireless network; the format of data
packets used for high-speed data transmission; integrating Web
browsing into a phone; a way to store and play digital audio;
and viewing digital documents using a touch-sensitive display,
according to the complaint.  Competitive Industry  “Each of the asserted patents is important to Samsung’s
success in the highly competitive industry of mobile electronic
devices by providing Samsung with features that are highly
desirable to consumers,” the company said in the complaint.  A representative for Apple wasn’t immediately available to
comment on the case.  If the ITC takes the case, a judge would hear arguments
within a year and the case would be completed within 15 to 18
months.  Samsung, which has U.S. headquarters in Richardson,  Texas ,
and a research facility in San Jose,  California , said it
“invests in U.S.-based personnel who provide product design,
research and development, and engineering to help design a
product that will work in the U.S. market.” The Apple devices,
it said, are made in  China .  The case is In the Matter of Mobile Electronic Devices,
including Wireless Communication Devices, Portable Music and
Data Processing Devices, and Tablet Computer, Complaint No.
2824, U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  