-- 
Scene Last Night: Amanda Burden, David Byrne, Dratch, Badgley

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-06-29T14:27:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/scene-last-night-amanda-burden-david-byrne-rachel-dratch-penn-badgley.html
Waiters passed out  Coach Inc. (COH) 
luggage tags at the  Friends of the High Line  party last night,
getting 800 guests ready for summer travel.  The setting offered plenty of reasons to stay put, from the
view of the sunset over the  Hudson River  to the popsicles laced
with Grey Goose flavored vodka to the people-watching (David Byrne, Sean Avery, Rachel Dratch).  “The breeze is amazing,” said Jessica Szohr on the
Diller-von Furstenberg Sundeck with fellow “Gossip Girl” cast
member Penn Badgley. She carried a red Coach purse.  Coach Men’s collection paid for the party, allowing all
proceeds from $150-ticket sales to go toward maintaining the
elevated park on former railroad tracks, said Robert Hammond,
Friends of the High Line co-founder and executive director.  The expenses of the party included setting up embossing
machines so guests could have their luggage tags personalized
with one or two initials.  Lew Frankfort, chairman and chief executive of Coach, fell
into conversation with Amanda Burden, chairman of the  New York 
City Planning Commission.  Burden spoke of the plans to extend the No. 7 subway line
to Eleventh Avenue, where it will meet the High Line. “In 2013,
you’ll be able to go from Jackson Heights to the Meatpacking
district,” Burden said.  “We’re both romantics when it comes to New York,”
Frankfort added.  As for actual romance on the High Line, Hammond said he
didn’t know of any weddings that have taken place there.  “I’d like the first to be a gay marriage,” he said.  Proposals are another story.  Lost Love  “We’ve fished several engagement rings out of the
cracks,” Hammond said, pointing to the flooring at his feet.  Many guests at the party were content to walk up and down
the High Line checking out members of the opposite sex. The
prowl continued at the club Avenue, until guests caught sight of
Mary-Kate Olsen standing on a banquette, alternately surveying
the room and conferring with the DJ. She carried a bag by The
Row, the line she and her sister design.  A Recipe  For a refreshing adult party treat over the long holiday
weekend, here’s a recipe for one of the popsicles served at the
Friends of the High Line party last night:  Combine 3/4 ounce Grey Goose L’Orange Vodka.  With 1/4 ounce Licor 43.  And 4 ounces orange juice.  Pour liquid into popsicle mold and freeze overnight.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 