-- 
Scrapping Record Fails to End ‘Nightmare’ for Shipowners: Freight Markets

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-06-29T16:00:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/scrapping-record-fails-to-end-nightmare-for-shipowners-freight-markets.html
Shipowners are scrapping capesize
vessels at a record pace after rates plunged about 50 percent in
a year. It’s still not enough to end losses.  Forty-eight capesizes, usually used for hauling  iron ore  or
coal, have been demolished this year through June 24, compared
with 18 in the whole of last year, according to shipbroker
 Clarkson Plc . Rates will remain below about $11,000 a day for
the rest of the year, compared with a breakeven point of about
$23,000, according to  Johnson Leung , head of regional transport
at Jefferies Group Inc. in  Hong Kong .  The surge in scrapping has failed to revive capesize rates
because 117 new vessels have been launched this year as yards
work through orders placed in anticipation of a surge in iron
ore and coal shipments to China. Instead, China is paring
commodity imports to help cool growth, while  Vale SA (VALE) , the
world’s largest iron-ore miner, is adding vessels larger than
capesizes to cut its reliance on the charter market.  “The capesize sector is just a nightmare for shipowners,”
said Shin Ji Yoon, an analyst at KTB Investment & Securities Co.
in  Seoul . “Lines went on a buying frenzy and business just
hasn’t panned out as they hoped.”  The capesize fleet may rise to about 1,300 by year-end from
1,218 as of May, according to Osuke Itazaki, an analyst at SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc. in  Tokyo . That follows a net increase of
195 vessels in 2010 and 103 a year earlier, he said. Capesizes
carry about 170,000 tons of cargo on average.  Plunging Rates  The growing supply of ships has pushed capesize rates to
about $6,405 a day on the  spot market  compared with an average
of $30,587 for the whole of last year, according to London-based
Clarkson, the world’s biggest shipbroker. Its Baltic Capesize
4TC Index was at 12,898 yesterday compared with 24,237 a year
earlier.  Forward-freight agreements, traded by brokers and used to
bet on or hedge future transportation costs, anticipate rates no
higher than $18,230 a day through 2016, Baltic Exchange data
show.  “The bulk market will probably be bearish for as long as
five years because of the overcapacity issue,” said Um Kyung A,
an analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co. in Seoul. “Shipping
lines have been quite reckless in ordering new vessels in the
last three years.”  Jefferies Group’s Leung said he expects about 80 capesizes
to be scrapped this year. Shipbroker  Lorentzen & Stemoco AS 
predicted as many as 100 earlier this month. That compares with
a record 25 in 1998, according to Clarkson data.  Mitsui, Grand  China   As of June 1, 570 new capesizes were on order, according to
the shipbroker. The vessels accounted for 45 percent of the
249.3 million tons of bulk ships on order. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines
Ltd. had the biggest backlog with 30, followed by 22 for Grand
China Logistics, according to Clarkson.  Mitsui expects daily rates for capesizes to average $15,000
in the six months ended September and $25,000 in the following
six months, according to a  statement  last month. The Tokyo-based
shipping line had 109 capesizes as of March.  The company has no intentions of changing its fleet plans,
said Kazumi Nakamura, a spokeswoman. Calls to Grand China, which
is backed by the investment arm of China’s Hainan province, went
unanswered yesterday.  Orders for dry-bulk vessels jumped from 2007 through the
first half of 2009 alongside a surge in freight rates. The
Baltic Dry Index, a benchmark for commodity-shipping costs, hit
a record 11,793 in May 2008, after rising fourfold in two years.  The index has since tumbled 88 percent, partly because of a
22 percent increase in the size of the global bulk fleet in the
past three years.  China Commodities  Demand has also slowed as China, the biggest customer for
bulk-shipping lines, curtails commodity purchases from Brazil
and  Australia  because of rising prices and concerns about its
economy overheating. Imports of coal and iron ore rose 2.8
percent this year, compared with a 21 percent increase last year
and a 30 percent jump in 2009.  “Overseas iron-ore prices are still very expensive,”
Leung said. “That’s why domestic iron-ore production in China
is picking up.”  Rio de Janeiro-based Vale has also hurt charter rates as it
begins to take delivery of 19 Chinamax ships, which are almost
as big as the Bank of America Tower in  New York  and can haul
twice as much cargo as a capesize. The miner is adding the
vessels as it seeks greater control over shipping costs,
particularly on routes to China, its biggest customer.  “Vale wanting to do its own thing has certainly
contributed to the plunge in the spot market for capesize
ships,” Shinyoung’s Um said.  Metals Prices  Alongside the decline in rates, rising metals prices are
boosting the appeal of scrapping because shipowners can get
higher prices. Some capsize owners were able to get as much as
$10 million selling ships for scrap this year, an amount it
would take three years to earn in the current charter market,
according to Braemar Shipping Services Plc.  Shipowners have scrapped capesizes as new as 15 years old
because of the rates plunge, compared with traditional ages of
about 25 years or more, said Nitinbhai Kanakia, joint secretary
of the Ship Recycling Industries Association, which represents
shipbreakers in Alang, the western India city that’s home to the
world’s largest scrapping industry. Seven capsizes are currently
being taken apart on the city’s beaches, he said.  “Capesizes are sure to be a big proportion of business
moving ahead,” said Kanakia. “Shipowners just don’t have
sufficient cargoes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 