-- 
LSE Failing Means Rolet Joins Nasdaq Without Merger Partner

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-06-30T00:24:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/lse-failing-to-get-tmx-means-rolet-joins-nasdaq-s-greifeld-without-partner.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) 
terminated its purchase of  TMX Group Inc. (X) , marking the third
time since April that one of the world’s biggest equity venues
failed to close a merger aimed at bolstering growth.  LSE joins  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ,  IntercontinentalExchange
Inc. (ICE)  and  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  among markets without a
partner. Nasdaq OMX and ICE dropped their hostile bid for  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  on May 16 after regulators signaled they would block
it. Singapore’s bourse lost Sydney-based  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  on April 8
after Australian Acting Prime Minister  Wayne Swan  said the
acquisition wasn’t in the national interest.  The rejections may mean this year’s flurry of exchange
takeovers isn’t over as executives search for ways to offset
declining profitability from equity trading.  Nasdaq  OMX Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld , LSE’s Xavier Rolet and
Singapore CEO Magnus Bocker have all said international
alliances would make them more competitive.  “LSE will now continue to try to execute strategy and
protect market share, but they will struggle to do that,” said
Frederic Ponzo, managing partner at London-based GreySpark
Partners, which advises financial institutions. “The position
to stay independent is becoming less and less tenable. The most
likely predator is Nasdaq, but a cooling-off period will likely
be in order. It’s the one that would make most sense.”  Nasdaq Rallies  Nasdaq OMX shares jumped after the LSE-TMX deal was
abandoned, climbing 4.7 percent to $25.14 for the biggest
advance since April 1. TMX rose 1.5 percent to C$44.20. European
markets were closed for the day once the deal was broken, so LSE
shares haven’t reacted yet. The Bloomberg World Exchanges Index
that tracks 25 stocks gained 1.1 percent.  Frank De Maria, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, declined to
comment, as did LSE’s Victoria Brough,  Singapore Exchange ’s
Carolyn Lim and ICE’s  Kelly Loeffler .  LSE bowed out after failing to win the support of two-
thirds of TMX’s shareholders for its C$3.32 billion ($3.42
billion) purchase of Canada’s main stock exchange. “It is clear
that the two-thirds threshold required to approve the merger
would not have been achieved,” TMX said in a statement.  Shareholders of the Toronto Stock Exchange operator were
scheduled to decide on the proposal tomorrow. LSE said a
majority of shareholder votes cast by proxy supported it.  ‘Very Disappointing’  “This is very disappointing for Xavier, and he doesn’t
have many places to turn right now,” said Niki Beattie, CEO of
Market Structure Partners Ltd., a London-based consulting firm
that advises brokers and exchanges. “He has to do a deal.
Organic growth won’t do it. LSE is facing a certain future where
whatever happens they will be the lesser partner. It’s unlikely
though that anything will be imminent.”  LSE’s Rolet, Nasdaq OMX’s Greifeld and  Singapore ’s Bocker
have been frozen out of a wave of exchange consolidation in
which more than $20 billion of takeovers have been announced
since October, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nasdaq OMX of  New York  and Atlanta-based ICE dropped their
bid for the operator of the New York Stock Exchange on May 16
after U.S. regulators threatened to block the deal. The decision
spurred a one-day advance of 6.8 percent in LSE, which Nasdaq
OMX has tried to acquire three times, and came after LSE’s offer
for Canada’s largest bourse was trumped by a group of 13 local
banks, pensions and insurers.  Bid Rejected  In February 2007, LSE shareholders rejected Greifeld’s
hostile bid when the LSE was valued at $5.33 billion. It was one
of five takeover offers that LSE’s former CEO Clara Furse fended
off in two years. LSE is now worth $4.16 billion. Nasdaq OMX
currently has a market value of $4.44 billion.  Greifeld first set his sights on LSE about five years ago
to create what would have been the first trans-Atlantic stock
exchange. In March 2006, he offered 2.4 billion pounds ($3.9
billion) for the London-based bourse in what the company called
an “attractive offer.” LSE rejected that bid, which led to
Greifeld’s failed takeover attempt in 2007.  In July 2002, before Greifeld joined Nasdaq OMX, talks
between the two broke down after U.S. and U.K. regulators failed
to agree on how to oversee the combined market.  Nasdaq OMX owns 12 equity and options markets in the U.S.
and Europe including the Nasdaq Stock Market, Nasdaq Options
Market and venues in Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Estonia,
Latvia and Lithuania. The combined market capitalization of
Nasdaq OMX and LSE is $8.6 billion, more than Singapore Exchange
and ASX.  “Senior management at the exchange will continue to have
their calendars cluttered with exchange merger discussions,”
 Robert Young , chief executive officer of Liquidnet Canada Inc.,
said of TMX. “The best path to increasing value for
shareholders is to drop costs and the easiest way to drop costs
is to merge exchanges.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 