-- 
SEC Proposes Fiduciary Duty for Public-Fund Swap Advisers

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-06-29T15:11:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/sec-may-propose-fiduciary-duty-for-public-fund-swap-advisers.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission will seek comment on a rule that would require swap
dealers advising pension funds, endowments and municipalities to
place the interests of such investors above their own.  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 today to propose a rule that
would impose the fiduciary duty as part of business-conduct
practices for swap dealers advising so-called special entities.
Dealers would also have to “reasonably believe” the investors
have an independent representative capable of evaluating risks,
according to an SEC fact sheet released in Washington.  The Dodd-Frank Act called on regulators including the SEC,
which oversees security-based swaps, to crack down on abuses in
sales to states, cities and school districts after swaps pushed
Jefferson County,  Alabama , to the brink of bankruptcy. The
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which oversees swaps tied
to  interest rates , has already proposed a similar rule.  “The rules we are proposing today would level the playing
field in the security-based swap market by bringing needed
transparency to this market and by seeking to ensure that
customers in these transactions are treated fairly,” SEC
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in a statement.  The SEC will seek public comment through Aug. 29 on the
rule, which would also require dealers to provide counterparties
with material information about swaps, including risks and
conflicts of interest. Dealers would have to provide information
on daily valuations and determine whether recommendations to
clients meet suitability standards.  Dealers would also be required to verify whether a client
is a special entity, and to comply with so-called pay-to-play
rules that restrict campaign contributions to politicians who
hold the power to award contracts, according to the fact sheet.
Special entities generally include federal agencies, states,
employee benefit plans and endowments, the SEC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  