-- 
Securitas Extends Niscayah Offer Against Stanley Black & Decker

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-29T11:52:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/securitas-extends-niscayah-offer-against-stanley-black-decker.html
Securitas AB (SECUB) , whose takeover bid for
Niscayah AB was trumped by  Stanley Black & Decker Inc. (SWK) , said its
proposal for the maker of electronic security systems is its
“best offer” and extended the acceptance period to gain more
support.  Securitas prolonged the acceptance period for Niscayah’s
shareholders to Aug. 12 from July 18 because it found out the
European Commission may clear the deal from a competition
standpoint at about Aug. 4, it said in a statement today.
Stockholm-based Securitas is the world’s second-largest security
services company by sales after G4S Plc.  Securitas may offer a higher price despite its comments
indicating otherwise, said Soeren Lontoft Hansen, an analyst
with Sydbank A/S in Aabenraa,  Denmark  with an “underweight”
rating on Securitas shares. “It’s hard to say how they will
play this,” Hansen said by telephone today.  “This is a game,
and I think they’re holding their cards back. You don’t want to
disclose your next step in this process.”  Securitas on May 16 offered to buy Niscayah through a share
swap, exchanging one Securitas Class A share for every 4.19
Niscayah Class A share, and the same condition for the
companies’ Class B shares. Stanley Black & Decker, most known
for its power tools, outbid Securitas on June 27, offering 7.6
billion kronor ($1.19 billion) to expand its security-related
business.  Optimistic Plan  “We were maybe a bit optimistic about our time plan,”
Gisela Lindstrand, a Securitas spokeswoman, said today by
telephone, reiterating that the company doesn’t plan to raise
its bid in response to Stanley Black & Decker’s offer. “We’re
still interested in acquiring Niscayah and we think we have
offered the price tag that Niscayah is worth for us. We have
made our best offer.”  Securitas’ biggest shareholders, Gustaf Douglas and Melker
Schoerling, are also among the top-six owners in Niscayah,
according to Bloomberg data.  Securitas rose 2.4 percent to 65 kronor at 1:50 p.m. in
Stockholm trading. Niscayah was unchanged at 18.30 kronor.  Securitas spun off three of its divisions between 2006 and
2008, including Niscayah. The unit, then called Securitas
Systems, was distributed to shareholders in 2006 “to enhance
transparency, specialization and shareholder value.”  Securitas aims for cost savings of about 200 million kronor
a year from the proposed merger, with the full effect from 2013,
it said on May 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 