-- 
Senate Votes to Let Some Federal Positions Bypass Confirmation Process

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-06-29T22:55:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/senate-votes-to-let-some-federal-positions-bypass-confirmation-process.html
The  U.S. Senate  voted 79-20 to ease
a logjam of executive-branch nominations by removing about 200
federal jobs from the 1,200 requiring confirmation by the
chamber.  If the House follows suit, the president can simply appoint
his picks to the lower-level jobs that include chief scientist
for the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration  and
assistant secretary of agriculture for public affairs.  Partisan tensions continue to block President  Barack Obama ’s choices for a handful of top jobs, including secretary
of commerce.  Republican leaders say they will try to prevent a vote on
former Edison International Chief Executive Officer John Bryson,
Obama’s choice for commerce secretary, until the White House
forwards pending trade deals for  South Korea ,  Panama  and
 Colombia  to Congress for approval. They also say they won’t
approve anyone to head a new Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, part of last year’s financial overhaul, until the
bureau’s powers are restructured.  Senator  Joe Lieberman , chairman of the Senate  Governmental
Affairs panel , said presidents are hobbled by delays in getting
executive-branch jobs filled. Some of the positions don’t merit
Senate consideration, and approval of today’s measure will free
senators and future presidents to focus on prospective
officeholders who make policy decisions, he said.  ‘Takes Too Long’  “It takes too long for an incoming president and a sitting
president to get his team in place, and there are too many
vacancies during the course of an administration,” said
Lieberman, a Connecticut independent. Lieberman said about 25
percent of Obama’s nominees still haven’t been confirmed.  Leaders of both parties pledged to enact the legislation in
January. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
and Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, also
reached an informal agreement to curtail use of the filibuster -
- the threat of endless debate -- to block the Senate from
bringing measures to the floor.  Partisan acrimony has slowed work in the Senate, where few
measures have cleared this year beyond an overhaul of patent law
and a measure to modernize the  Federal Aviation Administration .  Senator Lamar Alexander, the chamber’s No. 3 Republican
leader and a co-sponsor of the bill that passed today, said the
Senate’s action will add more sense to the process and reduce
the number of nominees who find to their “great horror” they
are going through a maze of paperwork and personal scrutiny to
try to get a job serving the public.  ‘Modest Step’  “This is a modest step, but an important one,” said
Alexander of  Tennessee .  There have been calls for change to the confirmation
process for decades, in part because of the increasing number of
executive jobs needing Senate approval. When President  John F. Kennedy  took office in 1961, fewer than 300 posts required a
Senate vote. That grew to just over 900 by the time President
 Bill Clinton  entered the White House in 1993.  Nobel laureate and Federal Reserve board choice  Peter Diamond  announced he was withdrawing from consideration June 5
after more than a year of Republican delays. He joined a handful
of other Obama nominees who dropped out because of frustration
with the process.  The measure passed today applies to executive-branch
appointees and doesn’t affect federal judicial nominees.  Separately, the Senate passed 89-8 a resolution to
streamline the process for approving about 200 additional
executive-branch positions. The rule change would allow
confirmations for these jobs, generally part-time positions with
federal advisory boards and councils, to bypass the committee
process and go straight to the Senate floor for approval.  The bill approved today is S. 679, and the resolution is
S.Res. 116.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  