-- 
Senate Panel Backs Halting Raytheon Kill-Vehicle Production

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-06-30T00:43:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/senate-panel-backs-u-s-halting-raytheon-kill-vehicle-production.html
The Senate Armed Services Committee
has backed the  Missile Defense Agency ’s decision to suspend
production of  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  “kill vehicles” that are designed
to destroy incoming ballistic missiles.  The panel, in its report on the Pentagon’s 2012 budget,
said the MDA was right in “suspending further production” of
the exoatmospheric kill vehicles, which are linked to two test
failures of the primary U.S. missile defense system. The
suspension should not be lifted until the agency “has verified
through extensive testing that the problem has been successfully
corrected,” it said.  In January, the MDA halted purchases of the so-called kill
vehicles made by Waltham, Massachusetts-based Raytheon. The
spacecraft is designed to collide with enemy targets about 200
miles in space while traveling at about 15,000 miles an hour.
MDA had bought 12 of 23 units on order before linking them to
failures in the two tests, which were conducted in January 2010
and December 2010, according to a report by the Government
Accountability Office.  Raytheon is continuing production of “sub-assemblies and
the product” except one component whose failure is under
investigation, the company’s chief executive officer, Bill Swanson, said in an interview at the  Paris Air Show  last week.
“That’s the portion that has stopped,” he said.  “The final assembly” of the kill vehicles “is the key
item that has been halted,” MDA spokesman  Richard Lehner  said
in an e-mail. “The production pause is in effect until the
failure investigation” of the December 2010 test is complete,
he said. The next intercept test is planned for 2012, he said.  Gates’s Comments  Even with test failures, the ground-based system works,
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said in an interview with
Bloomberg News today. The MDA is trying to make the system
“ever more advanced,” said Gates, who leaves his job tomorrow.
He will be succeeded by  Leon Panetta , the director of the
Central Intelligence Agency.  “I know the base capability of the ground-based
interceptors in  Alaska ,” Gates said. “We have tested them time
and again. So, what you’re seeing is trying to move the
technology to the next level.” The setbacks from test failures
“shouldn’t create in anybody’s mind a growing sense of unease
with the program,” he said.  Test Failures  In reports accompanying the 2012 Pentagon budget
authorization, defense committees in the House and the Senate
said they were concerned about the failures of the two tests in
2010.  The House report said the unsuccessful tests raised doubts
about the reliability and effectiveness of the deployed system
and also “questions whether there are more systemic issues”
within the ground-based Midcourse Missile Defense program. The
House report also noted that the system, with interceptors
located in Alaska and  California , “is currently the only
missile defense system that protects the United States homeland
from long-range ballistic missile attacks.”  The entire system -- ground-based interceptors mounted with
the kill vehicles, satellites, ground- and sea-based radar, and
command and control operations -- is overseen by Chicago-based
 Boeing Co. (BA) , which has held the contract since 1998.  The MDA is holding the first competition to pick a
contractor that will manage the system, an order valued at as
much as $10 billion. The agency on June 7 delayed a decision on
the contract until November.  Boeing and its partner, Los Angeles-based  Northrop Grumman
Corp. (NOC) , are competing against a team led by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) 
that includes Raytheon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  