-- 
Serbian Economy Minister Sees Period of Dinar Stability

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-06-29T12:09:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/serbian-economy-minister-sees-period-of-dinar-stability-1-.html
Serbia is entering a period of dinar
stability and “without excessive fluctuations,” Economy
Minister Nebojsa Ciric said.  Government officials met with central bank Governor Dejan Soskic yesterday to discuss its policies, including its “market
interventions,” after export-oriented companies complained when
the dinar rose to 96 from 107 to the euro in only five months,
Ciric said today at a press conference in Belgrade.  “It would have been okay if the dinar strengthening was
based on an unbelievable increase in industrial output but that
was not the case,” he said. “My impression is that we are
entering a period of the dinar stability and without excessive
fluctuations.”  Following its 40 percent decline against the euro between
late 2008 and 2010, the dinar gained almost 10 percent in early
2011, mainly led by high yields on increased  government
borrowing . Changes in credit plans earlier this month were read
by many bond investors as a signal to close some of their dinar
positions.  The currency traded at 102.53 to the euro at 12:54 p.m. in
Belgrade, according to Bloomberg data, down 0.4 percent on the
day.  Stabilization Period  “The central bank is independent and they should decide
themselves when to intervene, but it appears that we are
approaching the period of the dinar stabilization,” Ciric said.
“It would be good for the dinar to stabilize at some level, any
level, and that there is no excessive depreciation or
appreciation.”  The National Bank of Serbia is fighting inflation above 10
percent with high  interest rates . The Belgrade-based Narodna
Banka Srbije unexpectedly cut its two-week repurchase rate by a
half-point to 12 percent on June 9 on initial signs of slowing
price growth.  The bank has sold a total of 20 million euros ($29 million)
since June 14 to stem the dinar’s decline, according to its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  