-- 
Shui On Plans $1.2 Billion Shanghai Rail Hub Bar Project

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-29T10:05:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/shui-on-plans-1-2-billion-bar-office-project-at-shanghai-transport-hub.html
-  Shui On Land Ltd. (272)  will spend about
8 billion yuan ($1.2 billion) to develop an office and
restaurant precinct under its Xintiandi brand near  Shanghai ’s
smaller airport and high-speed rail station.  The company expects “high returns” from Hongqiao Tiandi
because it sees rents catching up to the level of Xintiandi,
which the developer built into a bar and restaurant district
from Shanghai century-old homes nine years ago, said Chairman
Vincent Lo in an interview in the city yesterday. The investment
amount includes the cost of the land, Lo said.  “We are very bullish as Hongqiao will be the central
business district for the whole  Yangtze River Delta  because of
the high-speed rail,” said Lo. “I believe all the businesses
are very keen to get established here.”  Shui On is developing the 280,000-square-meter (3 million-
square-foot) project as the Chinese government plans to spend
2.8 trillion yuan on railways by 2015 that will boost the
network to about 120,000 kilometers (74,580 miles), according to
the railway ministry. Hongqiao’s transportation hub has 1
million people passing through in a location where 75 million
are within an hour’s train ride, according to the company.  The stock gained 2.1 percent to HK$3.34 at the close in
 Hong Kong  trading, the highest in almost three weeks.  While Hongqiao will provide some similar facilities to the
Shanghai district, it will include offices, shops, and a luxury
hotel, which is expected to be finished as early as the second
quarter in 2013, Lo said.  Lots of Activities  Xintiandi , which means New Heaven and Earth in Chinese, is
a residential and commercial complex built through the
redevelopment of houses dating back to the 19th and 20th
centuries located in downtown Shanghai. The project attracted
local and international retailers and restaurants, including
Paulaner Brahaus and Starbucks Corp.  Shui On has no fundraising plans for Hongqiao as banks are
“very keen” to provide loans, Lo said. The company is
unveiling the project later today in Shanghai.  The Shanghai-based developer said it paid 3.2 billion yuan
for the site. The total building area including park lots will
be 380,000 square meters, Lo said.  “We believe there will be a lot of activities for business
people who are conscious of time in Hongqiao Tiandi,” he said.
“In the future you can check in at our site, have a cup of
coffee and walk to the airport.”  Shui On is working to spin off its property leasing
business in  China  and seeking an initial public offering, which
will likely be in Hong Kong, Lo said. There is no timetable, the
billionaire said.  The company is seeking financing as the Chinese government
tightened credit and extended measures to control the risks in
the  property market , said Lo without elaborating.  “Under the current circumstances, all developers will have
to plan for the worst-case scenario,” he said. “Developers do
have to look for alternative sources of funding. We’ll do that
like everybody else.”  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Linus Chua  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  