-- 
Singapore Banks, Solvency II, Lagarde-IMF: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-06-29T13:12:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/singapore-banks-solvency-ii-lagarde-to-head-imf-compliance.html
Singapore said it will raise capital
rules for local lenders to more than the global minimum to
solidify the city’s reputation as a financial hub after
regulators tightened norms for the world’s biggest banks.  Lenders incorporated in Singapore will need to meet a
minimum common equity Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio of 6.5
percent from Jan. 1, 2015, the  Monetary Authority of Singapore 
said in a statement yesterday. That’s 2 percentage points more
than the so-called Basel III rules announced last year.  Policymakers in the Southeast Asian nation aim to join U.S.
and European regulators in shoring up capital at banks that are
deemed too big to fail. The Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision this weekend said that systemically important banks
must hold as much as 2.5 percentage points in additional capital
as part of efforts to prevent another financial crisis.  The Basel III capital rules announced last year, which
apply to a broader group of banks worldwide, are scheduled to be
phased in from 2013 through 2019. National regulators should
treat the rules as a minimum standard that they can surpass if
they wish, according to the Bank for International Settlements,
the parent organization of the Basel committee.  The world’s largest banks will have to meet the Basel
surcharges using core Tier 1 capital, also known as common
equity, regulators said in a June 25 statement. The extra
measures for as many as 30 of the biggest lenders will be
imposed in addition to the Basel rules announced last year that
require lenders to hold core capital equivalent to at least 7
percent of their risk-weighted assets.  Singapore plans to raise the Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio
to 8 percent from 6 percent and introduce a capital conservation
buffer of 2.5 percentage points.  Compliance Policy  Solvency Rules Should Ease for Asset-Backed Debt, AFME Says  Insurers would need less regulatory capital to hold top-
rated residential mortgage-backed securities under a financial
lobby group’s counter-proposal to rules being drawn up by
European lawmakers.  The  Association for Financial Markets in Europe  said
insurance firms should set aside capital equal to 2.8 percent of
holdings of five-year bonds secured by prime U.K. and Dutch
mortgages, according to the proposal obtained by Bloomberg News.
That’s as little as a sixth of the capital charge regulators
used in tests of new rules known as Solvency II.  AFME’s proposal will “give lower capital charges to high-
quality products with good credit performance and low price
volatility,” according to the London- and Brussels-based
group’s document. AFME, created in 2009, represents more than
160 bond and equity market participants including Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   Solvency II, which aims to align insurers’ risks with
capital to offer more protection to policyholders, comes into
effect in 2013. Banks and insurers in Europe lost or wrote down
a total $107 billion of investments in securities bundling
subprime mortgages and consumer loans since 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The rules are being developed by the  European Commission ,
the  European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority  in
Frankfurt and local regulators. Rob McIvor, a London-based
spokesman at AFME, declined to comment.  U.K. Law Should Change to Block Debit-Payment Fees, OFT Says  British law should be changed to prevent customers being
made to pay additional charges when they use debit cards to buy
airline tickets and other goods and services online, the U.K.’s
antitrust regulator said.  A three-month investigation found evidence of “drip
pricing” surcharges that cost U.K. consumers 300 million pounds
($479.1 million) in 2009 in the airline industry alone, the
 Office of Fair Trading  said yesterday in a statement.  The probe followed a so-called supercomplaint filed with
the OFT in March by  Which? , a U.K. consumer-rights group. Which?
argued that many surcharges exceed the true cost of processing
credit and debit transactions. The group singled out retailers,
taxi services and low-cost airlines including  Ryanair Holdings
Plc. (RYA)   Ryanair yesterday said the OFT’s findings won’t affect it
because it doesn’t use surcharges.  U.K. charter carrier Monarch Airlines said it welcomed the
OFT stance on fees.  U.S. Proposes Derivatives Monitoring System, Nikkei Says  The U.S. Treasury Department has proposed to Japan
requiring financial institutions to report transactions using a
universal identification system, the Nikkei newspaper said,
citing Adam Lavier, a Treasury official.  Discussions are also taking place in Europe, Nikkei said.  Compliance Action  Deutsche Boerse to Seek EU Approval of NYSE Deal, Almunia Says  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  will seek European Union approval in
coming days for its plan to buy  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,  Joaquin Almunia ,
the EU’s competition chief, said yesterday in London.  Almunia said EU antitrust regulators will examine the deal
with “objectivity” and aim to present in Brussels “formal
notification of the proposed merger in the coming days.”  French AMF Regulator Says  Soitec (SOI)  Will Publish Statement  Soitec SA, or Silicon-On-Insulator Technologies, had its
shares suspended pending a statement from the company, Christine
Anglade, a spokeswoman for France’s AMF regulator, said by
telephone yesterday.  Soitec manufactures substrates used in the production of
semiconductors in the microelectronics industry.  Anglade declined to say when the statement by the company
might be made.  Level Global Settles SEC Claims Tied to Goldman Sachs Trades  Level Global Investors LP, the hedge fund that is closing
after the FBI raided its offices in an insider-trading probe,
agreed to pay more than $3.2 million to resolve claims it
violated anti-manipulation rules.  Level Global, which has offices in  New York  and Greenwich,
Connecticut, made about $2.68 million in 2009 by short-selling
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Regions Financial Corp. during a
restricted period and then buying the shares in a public
offering, the Securities and Exchange Commission said in an
administrative  order  yesterday.  SEC rules prohibit investors from selling short a stock, a
bet that its price will fall, within five business days of
participating in a public offering of the same security. The
provision, known as Rule 105, aims to prevent investors from
artificially depressing the price shortly before the sale.  In a separate  order  yesterday,  Brookside Capital LLC , an
affiliate of Boston-based private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC,
agreed to pay $2.12 million to resolve SEC claims it made
similar improper trades in  Lincoln National Corp. (LNC)  in June 2009.
In settling the claims, Level Global and Brookside, which has
about $10 billion in assets under management, didn’t admit or
deny the SEC’s allegations.  Lee Richards, an attorney for Level Global at  Richards
Kibbe & Orbe LLP  in New York, didn’t return a phone message left
after regular business hours. Ganek didn’t return an e-mail.  Brookside Capital “cooperated with the SEC, paid all
associated costs and its funds were not harmed,” Alex Stanton,
a spokesman for the firm, said in an e-mailed statement.  U.K. Insider-Trading Suspects Face Interviews, Lawyer Says  Seven people arrested by Britain’s financial regulator last
year in its highest-profile insider-trading probe are being
called in by the regulator for final interviews over the next
three months.  Stephen Pollard, a lawyer for  Moore Capital  Management
LLC’s Julian Rifat, said the suspects in the case have been
scheduled for interviews with the regulator in July, August and
September. The FSA is probing whether the suspects engaged in
the front-running of block trades by using knowledge of upcoming
securities sales, generally on behalf of a corporate client, to
generate a profit for themselves.  The people, including employees from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
Exane BNP Paribas and Moore Capital, were put on extended bail
until later this year as the Financial Services Authority
continues to investigate the case. The regulator arrested the
seven suspects in March of last year. Those questioned include
Rifat, Deutsche Bank’s Martyn Dodgson, Exane’s Clive Roberts,
Novum Securities Ltd.’s Graeme Shelley and Iraj Parvizi, a
director of Aria Capital Ltd.  Front running is a practice in which a trader takes a
position to capitalize on advance knowledge of a sale that is
expected to influence the price of stocks or commodities.  Money managers are barred from trading on such information
under U.K. law.  Chris Hamilton , a spokesman for the FSA, declined to
comment.  Sony Cooperating With U.S. Antitrust Probe of Battery Business  Sony Corp. (6758)  said it is cooperating with a probe by the U.S.
Justice Department’s antitrust division as part of a wider
investigation into competition in the rechargeable battery
business.  The Tokyo-based company’s U.S. subsidiary, Sony
Electronics, received the request for information on May 3,
Keita Sanekata said in an e-mailed statement. Sanekata declined
to comment further on the scope of the investigation disclosed
in an annual report filed yesterday.  Lithium batteries account for the largest portion of the
global market for rechargeable batteries. They are used in
smartphones, personal computers, tablets and plug-in electric
vehicles. The largest battery makers cut prices in 2010 amid a
supply glut, according to the Institute of Information
Technology, a Tokyo-based market research firm.  Courts  Merrill, UBS Commit Fraud on Swaps, Lombardy Tells U.K. Court  Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit and  UBS AG (UBSN) 
committed fraud and made “an unfair profit” through hidden
fees charged on swaps, according to U.K. court filings by the
Italian region of Lombardy, which must set aside millions of
euros to cover potential Greek bond losses.  Both banks “deliberately failed to disclose the implicit
costs of the transaction, intending to derive an advantage”
from the region’s “inexperience and ignorance,” lawyers for
Lombardy said in court filings this month.  The region was responding to lawsuits filed by Merrill
Lynch and UBS at the High Court in London last July. The banks
are seeking confirmation that derivatives contracts with the
region, home to Italy’s financial capital Milan, are valid.  The case centers on a 2002 agreement between the banks and
the region that changed the way Lombardy would repay a $1
billion 30-year bond. Under the deal, Lombardy was to make the
payments in installments instead of a so-called bullet repayment
when the bond matured. The banks set up a fund to invest the
city’s payments in securities, such as sovereign bonds, until
the debt matured. Lombardy said in a statement June 27 it will
set aside 153 million euros ($218 million) for potential losses
on Greek bonds held in the fund.  “I was 25, had recently graduated, and had a junior role
on the desk at the time of the transactions,” Gaetano
Bassolino, a UBS banker, said. A spokeswoman for UBS declined to
comment further.  Lombardy “was acting for its own account and had made its
own independent decisions to enter the transaction and as to
whether the transaction was appropriate or proper for it based
upon its own judgment,” Merrill Lynch said in its lawsuit.  A spokesman for the region declined to comment.  Judge Rejects SEC Claims Morgan Keegan Misled ARS Investors  A U.S. judge rejected Securities and Exchange Commission
claims that  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) ’s Morgan Keegan brokerage
unit misled investors about $2.2 billion in auction-rate
securities before the market for the instruments collapsed in
2008.  U.S. District Judge William S. Duffey Jr. said yesterday in
a summary judgment in Atlanta that the SEC didn’t introduce any
evidence showing Morgan Keegan instituted a “companywide policy
encouraging its brokers to misrepresent ARS liquidity risks.”
The “failure to predict the market does not amount to
securities fraud,” Duffey wrote in the judgment.  The SEC sued Morgan Keegan in July 2009, claiming it
encouraged brokers to push the debt before the $330 billion
market froze in February 2008, and customers weren’t told about
the growing risk the securities could become difficult to sell.
Since then, dozens of banks have returned billions of dollars to
harmed investors.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said the agency is
considering whether to appeal. A phone call after normal
business hours to Tim Deighton, a spokesman for Birmingham,
Alabama-based Regions, wasn’t immediately returned.  Federal and state regulators have sanctioned banks for
selling auction-rate securities as safe, cash-like investments.
The instruments are typically municipal bonds, corporate bonds
and preferred stocks whose rates of return are periodically
reset through an auction.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Morgan
Keegan, 09-01965, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Georgia (Atlanta).  Interviews/Speeches  Barclays, Citigroup Lawyers Say Regulator May Curb Innovation  Top lawyers for  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said the
U.K. regulator taking over for the Financial Services Authority
may stifle innovation by using its power to ban risky financial
products.  Brad Gans, Citigroup’s chief legal officer for Europe,
Middle East and Africa, said it is how financial products such
as collateralized debt obligations were used and sold, rather
than how they were designed, that contributed to the global
credit crunch. The products themselves weren’t bad, he said.  Gans made the remarks at a Financial Services Authority
conference yesterday.  The FSA, the U.K.’s financial regulator, will be abolished
by the end of 2012 and replaced by at least two new authorities
as part of an overhaul of financial supervision. One of the
replacement agencies, the Financial Conduct Authority, has been
given powers to ban risky financial products or limit how they
are marketed, as well as publish information about its
disciplinary investigations while they are in progress.  “I don’t think the FSA should outlaw products, that’s too
far,” Gans said. “We do want consumers to have choice.”  Mark Harding, the general counsel for Barclays, said “we
just kill innovation” if we ban products.  U.K. Regulator’s ‘Focused Nature’ Will Free Staff, CEO Says  The U.K.’s regulator will benefit from the “more focused
nature” of its new structure, which will free its staff to
spend more time with individual firms, Financial Services
Authority Chief Executive Officer Hector Sants said.  “We should recognize there has been improvement in the
quality of staff in the FSA’s supervisory group,” Sants said at
the  British Bankers’ Association  annual conference in London
today. “It’s always a challenge to keep good staff where market
price is more than regulators are able to pay.”  Comings and Goings  Lagarde Named First Female Head of IMF, Replacing Strauss-Kahn  Christine Lagarde  was named the first female head of the
 International Monetary Fund  to take on Europe’s debt crisis and
balance the demands of fast-growing emerging nations with the
needs of a recovering developed world.  Lagarde, 55, currently France’s finance minister, will
begin July 5, the Washington-based fund said yesterday. She won
the job over Mexican central bank governor Agustin Carstens
after gaining a reputation as a skilled negotiator during the
financial crisis within both the Group of 20 and the European
Union as it provided bailouts for Greece, Ireland and Portugal.  Steering support for those countries and nurturing their
economies will remain one of Lagarde’s biggest challenges as she
moves from Paris to Washington to begin her five-year term as
the IMF’s 11th leader. She will also need to restore morale at
the fund, which is reeling from the arrest on charges of sexual
assault and subsequent resignation of her predecessor, Dominique
Strauss-Kahn. He has pleaded not guilty.  Lagarde will need to decide whether the IMF is ready to
provide extra funding for Greece, which already received the
second-largest loan in the fund’s history, as Europeans attempt
to craft a new package to help the country avoid debt
restructuring.  Lagarde was appointed finance minister by French President
Nicolas Sarkozy in June 2007, just before the onset of the
global financial crisis.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 