-- 
Singapore Loses Fight Over Bid for Bankrupt Paulson Resorts

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-06-29T18:32:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/singapore-is-denied-right-to-make-offer-for-bankrupt-paulson-resort-group.html
Government of Singapore Investment
Corp. lost a bid to move forward with a $1.5 billion offer for a
group of resorts that hedge fund Paulson & Co. is seeking to
restructure.  The Singapore sovereign wealth fund, known as GIC, says the
five resorts are putting it and other creditors at risk by
prolonging their bankruptcy case and should instead be put up
for sale.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in  New York  rejected that
argument today, giving the resorts more time to control the
bankruptcy so they can pursue restructuring objectives. GIC
sought to end that control so it could push ahead with its
offer.  “The debtors do get a chance to do what Chapter 11
contemplates,” Lane said at a hearing.  Paulson , a New York hedge fund, and other investors took
ownership of eight resorts through a foreclosure earlier this
year. Five of the properties, including the  Grand Wailea  resort
in  Hawaii  and the  Doral Golf Resort & Spa  in  Florida , then filed
for  bankruptcy protection .  GIC, a creditor in the case that owns $360 million in
mezzanine debt, offered $1.5 billion, subject to higher bids at
an auction, according to court papers. The bid, offering the
resorts a way out of bankruptcy, has been “completely
ignored,” GIC said in a court filing.  No ‘Fire Sale’  “This is not a fire sale offer,” Michael Sage, a GIC
lawyer, said.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , another lender, and Midland Loan Services
Inc., the servicer of mortgage debt, backed GIC’s effort and
called for the resorts to be put up for sale.  GIC is attempting to “disrupt” the bankruptcy and acquire
the assets before they rise in value, lawyers for the resorts
said in a court filing. The business wants time to complete
restructuring efforts to increase value, including a sale of the
Doral.  Director Mohsin Meghji testified yesterday that it would be
“premature” for the resorts to take the GIC offer now and
conduct an auction before pursuing those plans.  “We are basically preordaining a sale and a path that’s
premature,” he said.  The case is In re MSR Resort Golf Course LLC, 11-10372,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 