-- 
Global Agriculture Supply Worsening May Spur Food Shortages, Rogers Says

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-06-29T12:37:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/situation-in-global-agriculture-continues-to-worsen-jim-rogers-says.html
The global agriculture supply
situation has worsened and a failure to boost  food production 
fast enough to meet demand may lead to shortages, said investor
 Jim Rogers , chairman of Rogers Holdings.  “We’ve got to do something or we’re going to have no food
at any price at times in the next few years,” Rogers said in a
Bloomberg Television interview with Rishaad Salamat today in
Singapore. “I still own agriculture. If I found something to
buy, I would buy it.”  Rogers joins former United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan, the UN Food & Agriculture Organization and the  World Bank ,
in highlighting the need to boost global food production and
address issues pushing prices higher. Group of 20 farm ministers
agreed last week to increase agriculture output, set up a crop
database and limit export bans to tackle what French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  calls the “plague” of rising food prices.  Monthly food prices tracked by the FAO have surged nine
times in the past 11 months and last month stayed near a record
reached in February, as global demand for corn and wheat
outstripped production and drought and flooding ravaged harvests.
The World Bank estimates higher food prices have pushed 44
million more people into poverty.  Food Inflation  China , the world’s largest consumer of grains, energy and
metals, has raised  interest rates  four times since October and
increased bank reserve requirements nine times to tame above-
target inflation. The nation’s food-price inflation was at 11.7
percent in May, matching levels in March and November when they
were at the highest since July 2008, the year of the global
food-price crisis.  Global stockpiles of corn, the most-consumed grain, are
forecast to drop to 47 days of use, the fewest since 1974, data
from the U.S. Department of Agriculture show. Inventories are
declining as demand continues to outstrip production that’s
forecast to rise to a fifth consecutive year of record.  The proportion of the U.S. corn harvest going to ethanol
has almost quadrupled since 2002 and will reach 40 percent in
the current marketing year, according to USDA data. Ethanol
output has increased more than six-fold since 2002, boosted by
federal renewable fuel standards and subsidies now being
scrutinized by Congress.  Farm Prices  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index fell 9.6
percent this quarter, the first loss since the first three
months of 2010. While corn has lost 4.7 percent this quarter,
the grain is still 92 percent costlier than it was a year ago,
making it the best performer in the index. Corn traded at $6.685
a bushel in  Chicago  today.  Inventories of wheat, used in making pasta, noodles, bread
and feed for hogs and poultry, will drop to a three-year low of
184.26 million metric tons before next year’s Northern
Hemisphere harvest, as output misses demand for a second year,
the USDA said.  “Production just hasn’t been able to respond to new
demand,”  Michael Creed , an agribusiness economist at National
Australia Bank Ltd., said in a phone interview from  Melbourne 
today. Demand continues to outstrip global harvests because of
rising ethanol production in the U.S. and China’s surging demand
for meat, Creed said.  Kellogg View  “Grain is a solid input into all those food sectors and so
there’s really no way to go to avoid grain-based inflation,”
John Bryant, chief executive officer of  Battle Creek , Michigan-
based Kellogg Co., the largest U.S. maker of breakfast cereal,
said in a June 2 conference.  Unless governments come together to successfully address
the issue of  food security , “hopes for wider international
cooperation looked doomed,” Annan, who served as UN Secretary
General from 1996 to 2007, said last week.  “We have serious problems in inventories” of farm
products, Rogers said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  