-- 
Soggy Corn Fields Curb Planting as Demand for Ethanol, Feed Grow

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-06-29T21:04:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/soggy-corn-fields-curb-planting-as-demand-for-ethanol-feed-grow.html
U.S. corn farmers were unable to
plant on soggy or flooded fields from  Arkansas  to North Dakota
this year, signaling tighter grain stockpiles even after rising
demand for livestock feed and ethanol sent prices surging.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  may cut its planting
forecast tomorrow to 90.629 million acres, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of 31 analysts. That’s less than the
92.178 million that farmers predicted in a government survey
three months ago and would be the USDA’s biggest such reduction
from the March forecast since 1995.  Parts of the Ohio River Valley and North Dakota had triple
the normal rainfall in the past 90 days, Mississippi River
floods were a record in May, and millions of Midwest acres were
inundated with water. While prices slumped in the past few weeks
as drier weather improved conditions, late planting means fields
are more susceptible to heat and frost damage before the harvest
in September.  “It’s incredible how wet it has been this year,” said
Scott Stirling, who plans to make an insurance claim for the
first time in his 21 years of farming because 500 acres of his
7,500-acre farm near Martinton,  Illinois , were too soggy to
plant. “We needed the best crop ever to begin to rebuild
inventories, and that’s just not going to happen.”  Corn futures for July delivery, the closest to expiration,
reached a record $7.9975 a bushel on June 10 on the Chicago
Board of Trade. The contract has slumped 13 percent since then
to settle at $6.98 today.  Biofuel, Feed  The most-active contract by open interest, currently
December futures, has jumped 89 percent in the past year.
Ethanol producers have used record amounts of grain to make
biofuel, and meat prices at all-time highs kept livestock
producers from cutting herds.  Higher grain prices mean consumers are paying more for
everything from  Hormel Foods Corp. (HRL) ’s Jennie-O turkey to  Del
Monte Foods Co. (DLM) ’s Kibbles ‘n Bits dog food. Global food prices
are up 37 percent in the past year, reaching a record in
February, according to the  United Nations .  Another period of unusual weather, such as a heat wave in
July or August or an early freeze, may send corn to $10, said
Chad Hart, a grain-market specialist at  Iowa State University  in
Ames.  ‘U-Turn’  “This market is primed to head up, and up significantly,
if we have a short crop,” Hart said. “Concern about what’s
going on in  Europe  and other places in the world has pulled
everything down, but if we start to see some real concerns about
how corn production is shaping up, we could see the market do a
U-turn in a hurry.”  As many as 500,000 acres in  Iowa ,  Nebraska ,  South Dakota 
and  Missouri  may be hurt by floods on the Missouri River, Hart
said. The U.S. is the world’s biggest exporter of corn, soybeans
and wheat.  Wet weather that extended into June also may have prevented
farmers from seeding more soybeans, an alternative to corn
because it has a shorter growing season. About 76.487 million
acres may have been sown with the oilseed, down from the
previous USDA estimate of 76.609 million, according to the
Bloomberg survey.  Spring wheat, grown primarily in the Dakotas, Montana and
 Minnesota , may have dropped to 13.279 million acres, compared
with 14.427 million estimated in March, according to the survey.
That would leave total U.S. wheat planting at 56.725 million
acres, down from the government’s March estimate of 58.021
million.  Under Water  Terry Borstad, who grows spring wheat, corn, soybeans and
other crops on his 6,000-acre farm near Starkweather,  North
Dakota , said about 1,500 acres will go unplanted this year
because some areas remain under water.  “The 75 percent we’ve been able to plant, I feel
fortunate,” Borstad said. “A lot of farmers have only been
able to get in 50 percent or 25 percent.”  Wet weather may have prevented 6.3 million acres from being
planted in North Dakota, the most ever, said Aaron Krauter, the
executive director of the state’s USDA Farm Service Agency in
Fargo. The previous record was 3.9 million in 1999.  Ethanol Refiners  More of the U.S. corn crop will be used to make fuel in the
year that ends Aug. 31 than to feed animals for the first time,
the USDA estimates. Ethanol refiners may consume about 40
percent of last year’s harvest.  While U.S. lawmakers are considering an end or limits to
tax credits for ethanol after corn and crude-oil prices surged,
petroleum refiners are still required to use 15 billion gallons
of renewable fuels by 2015.  “That means ethanol production is totally unresponsive to
price,” Wallace Tyner, an agricultural economist at  Purdue
University  in  West Lafayette ,  Indiana , said in a  report  this
week. “There’s no flexibility.”  U.S. corn inventories as of June 1 may have totaled 3.29
billion bushels, down from 4.31 billion at the same time last
year and 6.523 billion estimated at the end of March, according
to the Bloomberg survey.  Lower corn inventories signal feed demand isn’t slowing
from livestock farmers, said  Roy Huckabay , an executive vice
president of the Linn Group in  Chicago . In April, cattle futures
reached a record $1.21625 a pound on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange, and hogs climbed to an all-time high of $1.0435 a
pound.  U.S. production of beef, veal, pork and lamb rose 4.9
percent to 3.91 billion pounds in May from a year earlier, the
USDA said June 24.  Higher Weights  “We are feeding more animals to a higher slaughter weight,
and that means high prices have not slowed feed usage of corn,”
Huckabay said. “We are using a lot more corn than people
expected, and that means consumption will have to slow the last
three months of the marketing year to stretch remaining
supplies.”  The number of cattle on feed on June 1 totaled 10.928
million, up 4.1 percent from a year earlier, the USDA said this
month. The number of hogs to be sold for slaughter on June 1 was
59.197 million, up 0.6 percent from 58.862 million a year
earlier, the agency said on June 24.  Meat companies are passing higher costs to consumers.
Austin, Minnesota-based Hormel, the second-largest U.S. turkey
producer, has raised prices twice this fiscal year, James Splinter, the vice president at the grocery-products division,
said on a June 16 conference call.  ‘New Price Points’  “The price increases have been very extensive across the
portfolio,” Splinter said. “We are testing some new price
points going forward, and we will have to see how consumers
react.”  San Francisco-based Del Monte said it raised prices on pet
food as much as 5 percent to offset higher raw materials costs,
according to a June 17 conference call. “We expect inflation to
be a significant headwind, primarily in energy, grains, and raw
products,” Chief Financial Officer Larry Bodner said.  Mark Legan, a hog farmer with 2,400 sows in Coatesville,
Indiana, said he’s not planning to reduce his herd, even as feed
prices rise. Legan said he’s using more distillers dried grains,
a byproduct of ethanol plants, in feed rations, cutting his corn
and soybean-meal costs by almost 10 percent.  “We’re hoping to be able to stay the course and manage
through this, but going forward, the world needs more corn,”
Legan said. “Everyone feeding or using corn is concerned about
what 2012 will hold, as far as availability of corn. There’s a
lot of uncertainty.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  