-- 
Spain Starts Wireless-Spectrum Sale in Plan to Trim Deficit

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-06-29T16:07:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/spain-starts-wireless-spectrum-sale-to-raise-2-9-billion-to-trim-deficit.html
Spain kicks off its first wireless-
spectrum auction today, a sale aimed at raising 2 billion euros
($2.9 billion) as the government races to rein in the euro
area’s third-largest  budget deficit .  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  France Telecom SA (FTE)  are
among 11 phone companies that participated in the  auction  of 270
megahertz for mobile services that started today. Operators will
bid for 58 blocks in the 800-MHz, 900-MHz and 2.6-gigahertz
frequency bands.  “This will be very significant for Spain’s aim to meet its
deficit target at the end of the year,” Jose Carlos Diez, chief
economist at Intermoney Valores in Madrid, said by phone today.
“It will also be a good booster for country’s competitiveness
so that it’s not left behind compared with other European
counterparts.”  Final results of the auction will be known in 10 to 15
days, said a spokeswoman for the Industry Ministry, who declined
to be named citing government policy. The Madrid-based ministry
will post daily results on its  website , indicating the price and
the blocks auctioned, without providing the name of the
operators, she said.  The auction is  aimed at boosting competition , including
helping reduce prices and increasing quality, by giving smaller
operators more access to mobile-phone frequencies. Phone company
 Jazztel Plc (JAZ) , Spanish broadband provider Grupo Corporativo Ono SA
and Basque-region cable company Euskaltel SA also participated
in the auction.  Spanish Deficit Targets  Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero is facing
growing political and popular opposition to his efforts to scale
back the budget deficit this year to 6 percent of gross domestic
product from 9.2 percent in 2010. The government plans to cut
spending by an additional 3.8 percent next year to reduce the
deficit by 2013 to within the European Union’s target of 3
percent of GDP.  The Spanish auction will take place ahead of mobile-phone
frequency sales this year in France, Italy and Switzerland. U.K.
Communications Minister Ed Vaizey said in Paris today that his
government is “absolutely” committed to holding a frequency
auction early next year following delays.  The U.K., which has already seen the number of operators
fall from five to four, is one of the most competitive markets
in  Europe , according to Matthew Howett, an analyst at
telecommunications consultant Ovum in  London .  France Telecom , TeliaSonera  While Spain is among countries that have sought to
rebalance spectrum holdings amongst the operators, the U.K. is
seeking to impose rules through the auction to maintain at least
four operators.  In Spain, France Telecom won a license earlier this month
for a 900-MHz spectrum block and  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ’s Spanish
mobile-phone unit won three 1,800-MHz licenses in uncontested
sales. The French company pledged to invest 433 million euros in
mobile infrastructure, the ministry said June 10. France Telecom
also paid 126 million euros to the Spanish treasury.  Xfera Moviles SA, which operates under the Yoigo brand and
is owned by Stockholm-based TeliaSonera, paid 42 million euros
for its licenses and promised to invest 300 million euros. All
the licenses run through 2030.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  