-- 
Spanish Central-Government Five-Month Budget Deficit Narrows

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-06-29T15:56:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/spanish-central-government-five-month-budget-deficit-narrows.html
Spain ’s central-government budget
deficit narrowed in the five months through May, helping the
nation toward its overall fiscal target even though some
regional governments may be overspending.  The gap narrowed to 1.26 percent of gross domestic product
through May, or 13.8 billion euros ($19.9 billion), compared
with 1.72 percent of GDP, or 18.3 billion euros, a year earlier,
Deputy Finance Minister Juan Manuel Lopez Carbajo told a
committee in parliament in  Madrid  today.  The data are better than the government’s forecasts,
indicating it will meet its deficit target this year, he said.  The government has pledged to bring the overall shortfall,
including the balances for Spain’s 17 semi-autonomous regions
and the social-security system, to 6 percent of GDP this year
and within the euro area’s 3 percent limit in 2013. The central
government compensated for regional overspending in 2010 by
cutting its own budget further. It is implementing the deepest
austerity measures in three decades to convince investors it can
avoid following Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  into a bailout.  Spain’s regions, which together control more than a third
of the country’s spending and employ half of all public-sector
workers, may fail to meet their deficit target of 1.3 percent of
GDP this year, first-quarter data indicate. Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said yesterday those figures highlight
“uncertainties” about the regions’ public finances. The
central government is aiming for a deficit of 4.8 percent of GDP
this year, while the social-security system is expected to post
a surplus.  Voter Backlash  Zapatero, who doesn’t plan to seek re-election next year,
is facing growing political and popular opposition to the budget
cuts, as well as measures to increase the  retirement age  and
reduce firing costs. The steps fueled a popular backlash that
sent his Socialist Party to its worst local-election defeats in
more than 30 years on May 22. Polls indicate the opposition
 People’s Party  will beat the Socialists in general elections in
March 2012.  The measures have failed to stem a surge in Spanish
borrowing costs. The yield premium investors demand to hold
Spanish 10-year bonds over comparable German debt stood at 259.7
basis points today from nearly 270 basis points yesterday,
approaching a 298 basis-point intraday record set on Nov. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 