-- 
Speculation on Banking Stress Test Failures Is Unfounded, EBA’s Enria Says

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-06-29T10:57:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/speculation-on-stress-tests-unfounded-eba-s-enria-says-1-.html
The head of the European Banking
Authority said “speculation” that a certain number of banks
would fail the upcoming stress tests is “completely
unfounded.”  The data for the tests, which may be released as soon as
next month, is still being processed, Andrea Enria, the EBA
chairman, said in a speech in  London  today. The EBA may fail as
many as 15 banks to give the lender examinations more
credibility, a person familiar with the negotiations told
Bloomberg News.  Last year’s tests, which allowed national regulators to use
their own capital definitions, were criticized by bank analysts
for not being tough enough. Lenders in the 27-nation region were
shown by regulators to need only 3.5 billion euros ($5 billion)
of new capital, about a 10th of the lowest analyst estimate.  “We are still receiving the submissions of the results by
banks and in the coming days we will be looking at the quality
of the data,” Enria said. “At that point we will be in a
position to estimate when we can realistically publish the
results.”  91 Banks  Ninety-one banks will be expected to maintain a Core Tier 1
capital ratio of at least 5 percent under the stress-test
scenarios, the EBA said. That capital measure is stricter than
last year’s assessment, which had a pass rate of 6 percent Tier
1 capital, a measure of financial strength that encompasses a
broader range of securities.  “The results have not yet been put together,” Enria said
today. “They have not gone through the final round of quality
assurance and peer review process.”  This year’s tests will include a review of how banks would
handle a 0.5 percent economic contraction in the euro area in
2011 as well as a 15 percent drop in European equity markets.  The EBA tests will also examine the effect of a 75 basis-
point jump in  interest rates  on European sovereign bonds and an
increase in short-term inter-bank financing costs of 125 basis
points. Losses on sovereign bonds held to maturity won’t be
tested, according to the EBA.  The EBA said last week that it had updated the tests to
consider potential losses caused by banks’ holdings of sovereign
debt from crisis-hit European Union countries. Reuters reported
the EBA may fail as many as 15 banks yesterday.  Basel Rules  Enria also said that a “strict implementation” is needed
for rules on bank capital drawn up by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision . The EBA will have to ensure that all
countries in the 27-nation European Union “have exactly the same
rules on the definition of capital,” Enria said.  National regulators should still be left “some room for
flexibility” in the amount of capital they require from banks,
Enria said. This flexibility could apply in cases where the
overall economic situation justifies tougher rules, he said.  Shadow banking is also an area of concern for regulators,
Enria said. Authorities have warned that shadow banking, which
includes structured investment vehicles used to move
transactions off balance sheets, could be used to evade attempts
by regulators to clamp down on excessive risk taking.  “To me shadow banking is an oxymoron: everything that is
banking cannot be in the shadow,” Enria said. Authorities must
either regulate shadow banks that take systemic risks, or
restrict such risk taking to “banks and other strictly regulated
institutions” through a “strict licensing regime,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  