-- 
Spreadtrum Says Muddy Waters Questions Over Its Accounting Are Groundless

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-06-29T20:41:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/spreadtrum-says-muddy-waters-questions-over-its-accounting-are-groundless.html
Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) , the
Chinese chip designer whose accounting was questioned by Muddy
Waters LLC, responded to the short seller’s  report  today by
saying inventory surged last year because of new products.  Muddy Waters, the investment firm run by Carson Block whose
research has preceded almost $5 billion in share losses among
Chinese companies trading in  North America , cited a fivefold
increase in inventory in a letter to Spreadtrum’s management.
Block’s firm said the company’s deferred costs may have climbed
too fast in explaining why it was betting the stock will fall.  Spreadtrum is so far the only company out of six analyzed
by Block that isn’t trading below its price the day his report
was published. The shares rose 10 percent to $13.76 as of 4 p.m.
in New York, advancing 6.3 percent from their June 27 close.
Sino-Forest Corp., the Hong Kong-based tree-plantation operator,
has tumbled 85 percent since  Muddy Waters  said June 2 it was
overstating timber holdings.  “The allegations made against Spreadtrum were not nearly
as damning nor as well diligenced as the allegations made
against Sino-Forest,” Kevin Pollack, a  fund manager  at New
York-based Paragon Capital LP who invests in U.S.-listed Chinese
stocks, wrote in an e-mail. “There was no real evidence of
management wrongdoing presented, it was more about displeasure
about the company strategy and management changes.”  Erasing Losses  Spreadtrum tumbled as much as 34 percent yesterday before
paring declines, closing down 3.5 percent after Needham Group
Inc. and Chardan Capital Markets LLC said the Muddy Waters
assertions were overblown. The shares fell 32 percent in 2011
through yesterday after rallying 452 percent in 2009 and 236
percent in 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Muddy Waters highlighted five financial-statement items in
its report: inventories, advances from customers, prepayments,
accounts payable and accrued expenses. The short seller said
it’s most concerned about the jump in the first two.  “Can you explain why the size (in absolute value terms) of
each of these accounts is much larger than in the past?” the
short seller wrote in the report, which appeared on its website.
“What processes did the auditors undertake to confirm the sizes
of each of these accounts?”  Spreadtrum doesn’t expect to record any write-offs on
inventory and its auditor has completed its review of the way it
accounts for merchandise, said Leo Li, the company’s chairman,
chief executive officer and president. He spoke today during a
 conference call  with investors and analysts.  Tracking Revenue  “The inventory level increased due to new product
introductions and also the need to maintain the current product
line,” Li said on the call. “Also, the inventory level tracks
to the level of revenue increases,” he said. “We provide full
access to accounting records to auditors.”  The value of Spreadtrum’s inventories rose more than
fivefold to $133.1 million in 2010 from $25.5 million in 2009 as
revenue more than tripled to $346.3 million, data compiled by
Bloomberg from company statements show.  “Building inventories can be a way to lower your costs,”
said Bill Fleckenstein, president of Fleckenstein Capital Inc.
in  Seattle . “It allows a company to report lower costs for the
products that it has sold because you’re moving a chunk of your
cost onto the balance sheet. It may be a warning sign, but it
can also be completely legitimate.”  Revealing His Process  Block said in an e-mail yesterday that the report achieved
its goals.  “We get a lot of requests from investors wanting to know
how they can protect themselves against getting blindsided by a
major expose on a company,” he said. “We therefore wanted to
give investors a look at our internal process, and let them see
how we approach the earlier stages of our research,” Block
wrote. “It brought important issues to investors’ attention,
and helped investors better understand how to spot red flags. We
hope the company will make a sincere attempt to answer our
questions candidly.”  Short selling, or the sale of borrowed stock to profit from
a decline, rose to a record 15 percent of Spreadtrum’s
outstanding shares as of June 27, up from 6.7 percent at the
beginning of the month and 1.5 percent at the end of 2010,
according to  Data Explorers , a New York-based research firm.  Quinn Bolton, an analyst at Needham with a “buy”
recommendation on the stock, wrote that the “conference call
reiterates our belief that SPRD is a real and rapidly growing
company,” according to a note to clients, in which the analyst
referred to the company by its stock symbol.  ‘Most Positive’  “We are incrementally more positive given the company’s
efforts to return cash to shareholders through the dividend and
repurchase program,” New York-based Bolton said.  Spreadtrum said today that it will pay a dividend on its
American depositary shares of 5 cents and that it will continue
buybacks it announced this month. The company can repurchase as
much as $100 million of its American depositary receipts under
the program. It has purchased 1.44 million shares, or about 3
percent of outstanding stock, through today, according to an
investor presentation.  “We think our stock is undervalued,” Li said. “This
repurchase program will be a benefit for shareholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  