-- 
Stone’s Move to Obvious Leaves Twitter Without Full Attention of Founders

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-06-29T20:04:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/stone-s-move-to-obvious-leaves-twitter-without-full-attention-of-founders.html
Twitter Inc. co-founder Biz Stone’s
decision to join fellow company alumnus  Evan Williams  at Obvious
Corp. leaves Twitter with none of its creators fully devoted to
the microblogging service.  Obvious, a startup incubator that helped give rise to
Twitter, will be revamped to focus on “solving big problems”
and help develop systems that “improve the world,” Stone said
yesterday on his  blog . Williams had announced in March that he
was stepping away full time from Twitter, though he remains
involved in the company.  While co-founder Jack Dorsey is still at Twitter as
executive chairman, he divides his time with another startup --
mobile-payment company Square Inc., where he serves as CEO.
Twitter’s newer executives are now working to maintain user
growth and compete with social-networking rivals such as
Facebook Inc., without as much day-to-day help from the
founders.  “Inventing something is not the same as turning it into a
business,” said Josh Bernoff, an analyst with Forrester
Research Inc. in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “They already have a
passionate user base that’s growing. So I think that the
founders probably look at that and say, ‘You know what? Why
don’t we let people who are good at that work on that, and we’ll
go and work on something else?’”  ‘Incredibly Productive’  Twitter is now run by former  Google Inc. (GOOG)  product manager
 Dick Costolo , who took the reins from Williams last year.  “The Twitter crew and its leadership team have grown
incredibly productive,” Stone said in the blog posting. “I’ve
decided that the most effective use of my time is to get out of
the way until I’m called upon to be of some specific use.”  While Twitter’s traffic has surged over the past four
years, its advertising business has grown more slowly than at
Facebook, the world’s largest social network. Its ads may
generate less than a 10th the revenue of Facebook’s this year,
according to New York-based  EMarketer Inc.   The company also has undergone multiple management changes
since its start. Dorsey served as CEO until 2008, when he ceded
the role to Williams.  The three founders remain involved in Twitter, the San
Francisco-based company said in an e-mail.  ‘Deeply Connected’  “Twitter is lucky to have all three of our founders still
deeply connected to the company,” Twitter said. “Jack is
executive chairman and leads our product team; Biz works closely
with us on social good efforts, consumer media opportunities and
various other projects; and Ev is regularly involved at the
board level.”  Obvious  also will be run by Jason Goldman, a former Twitter
executive.  Obvious  was first created by Williams to buy back a
company from investors that he and Stone failed to sell about
six years ago, Stone said. The two began working together after
leaving Google in 2005.  The assets from their failed company included Twitter,
which lets users publicly write 140-character messages to people
who follow them. Williams and Stone, as well as Dorsey,
continued building the company within Obvious. In 2007, the
group raised capital from outside investors and rolled out the
service.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Galante in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  