-- 
Stop the Fiscal War Against Our Children Now: Laurence Kotlikoff

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f
-- 
2011-06-29T04:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/stop-the-fiscal-war-against-our-children-now-laurence-kotlikoff.html
Our war in  Afghanistan  may be
ending, but our war against our children continues in full
force.  The  Congressional Budget Office  just  released  its annual
long-term fiscal forecast. It shows, after some simple
calculations, that our government’s fiscal gap -- the bill
presumably being left to our children -- has grown enormously
over the past year.  The fiscal gap measures, in present value, the difference
between all projected federal spending and future taxes. By
including all spending on the same footing -- whether official
debt service, entitlement programs or discretionary government
purchases -- the fiscal gap makes no distinction between
official and unofficial spending obligations, and properly so.  In fact, the government’s classification of obligations
such as interest payments as official and others, such as Social
Security payments, as unofficial is a labeling game with no
basis whatsoever in economic theory. It’s a strategy politicians
have used for decades to disguise the true nature of our
country’s indebtedness.  How big is the fiscal gap? By my own calculations using the
CBO data, it now stands at $211 trillion -- a huge sum equaling
14 times the country’s economic output. To arrive at that
figure, I assumed that annual noninterest spending, as well as
taxes, would grow indefinitely by 2 percent a year beyond 2075,
the point at which the CBO’s estimates end.  Growing Gap  The gap was $205 trillion last year, measured in today’s
dollars. That’s an increase of $6 trillion. By contrast, the
government’s count of official debt held by the public is $10
trillion -- $850 billion more than last year’s figure, after
adjusting for inflation. Hence, the real deficit we should be
worrying about is more than six times larger than the $850
billion official deficit capturing all the attention.  In other words, Congress and the president’s administration
could agree to run a balanced budget, making this year’s
official deficit zero, and the nation’s true indebtedness would
still rise by $5.15 trillion!  What accounts for the extra $5.15 trillion? In part, the
CBO is now projecting somewhat smaller future taxes.  But the
main reason is that we are one year closer to having to pay 78
million  baby boomers  roughly $40,000, on average, per year in
Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid benefits.  Because the
fiscal gap is a discounted present value, one year makes a big
difference.  Dire Position  Our fiscal position is so dire that it’s showing up even in
our phony official deficit accounting. Last year the CBO
projected that official U.S. federal debt would first exceed 90
percent of annual economic output in 2021. This year it projects
2018 as that critical date. That’s a three-year deterioration in
just 12 months. Including the debts of federal agencies to one
another, such as those of the Treasury to the  Federal Reserve ,
the number has already passed 90 percent.  Why is 90 percent a critical debt-to-gross domestic product
threshold? Because two prominent economists,  Ken Rogoff  of
Harvard and  Carmen Reinhart  of the Peterson Institute for
International Economics,  studied  the historical record and have
found that countries passing this threshold face sharply lower
rates of economic growth.  Rogoff and Reinhart are outstanding scholars, but I take
issue with their analysis. Were they to form official debt-to-
GDP series for each country in their sample using alternative
labeling conventions, they would find a different threshold.
Indeed, depending on the set of labels applied, Rogoff and
Reinhart could arrive at any threshold they would like for the
critical value.  Different Labels  The fact that governments choose a particular set of words
to characterize receipts and payments does not prevent others
from using their own set of labels and making up their own
historical time series for deficits. For example, I could call
last year’s FICA  contributions  “borrowing” rather than “taxes”
and label a portion of the contributors’ future Social Security
and Medicare benefits as return of principal plus interest on
this borrowing. Voila! Last year’s official deficit would be 15
percent, not 10 percent of GDP.  The 90 percent official debt-to-GDP threshold is
important only because Rogoff and Reinhart take governments’
inherently arbitrary fiscal labeling as meaningful and have
persuaded themselves and others that 90 percent is the
threshold.  No Arbitrary Measure  Again, the fiscal gap, measured over the infinite horizon,
is the only label-invariant measure of fiscal solvency, and its
message is loud and clear. We aren’t broke in 2021 or in 2018.
We’re not broke when some arbitrary measure of official debt
exceeds some arbitrary threshold. We’re broke today because the
fiscal gap is huge.  Furthermore, because the government’s cash flows aren’t
well defined, there is no label-invariant distinction between
long-run and short-run fiscal policy. There is only the present
value of the policy’s path of promised outlays net of projected
receipts, no matter how they are labeled. Consequently, the
assertion by some prominent politicians that our fiscal problems
are long-term and that we have time to fix them is, economically
speaking, mindless. Time may be on our side, but it’s certainly
not on our kids’ side.  Fiscal Order  What would it take to get our fiscal house in order? One
answer is to raise all federal taxes -- personal income taxes,
corporate income taxes, payroll taxes, and estate and gift taxes
-- immediately and permanently by 64 percent. Another option is
to cut all noninterest spending by 40 percent.  Alternatively, if we wait 20 years to change policy, these
two figures become 77 percent and 46 percent, respectively. If
we wait 40 years, until all the baby boomers have safely taken
their leave, the requisite permanent tax increases and spending
cuts are 93 percent and 53 percent.  Thus, the longer we wait to address the problem, the larger
the bill our children must pay either in higher taxes or lower
benefits. This is the awful zero-sum nature of our generational
dilemma and the moral challenge of our day.  The growing fiscal gap leaves no doubt. Intentionally or
not, we have placed our children in grave economic danger. Their
protection must be our highest priority. Our leaders, if they
actually care about their children and ours, need to stop
playing word games. They need to forget about the “official”
debt, forget about the “official” deficit, forget about the
“official” debt ceiling, start seeing the economic forest for
the trees, and set in place policies -- policies that go far
beyond what’s being considered -- to eliminate the fiscal gap.  ( Laurence J. Kotlikoff , a professor of economics at  Boston
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more Bloomberg View  columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
 kotlikoff@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 