-- 
Sudan, Southern Sudan Agree to Demilitarize Common Border byIndependence

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-06-29T16:27:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/sudan-southern-sudan-agree-to-demilitarize-border-by-july-9-1-.html
Sudanese authorities agreed with
 Southern Sudan ’s government to demilitarize their common border
before the south declares independence next week, the  African
Union  said.  The Sudanese army, based in Khartoum, and Southern  Sudan ’s
forces, agreed to redeploy 10 kilometers (6.2 miles) outside the
border within 10 days, the AU High-Level Implementation Panel on
Sudan, led by former South African President  Thabo Mbeki , said
in an e-mailed statement.  Today’s agreement will hold “pending the resolution of the
status of disputed border areas and the final demarcation of the
border,” the statement said. The oil-rich south is due to
become independent on July 9.  Clashes between Sudanese government forces and units of
Southern Sudan’s army in Southern Kordofan, northern Sudan’s
only oil-producing state, have forced more than 73,000 people to
flee their homes since June 5, according to the  United Nations .
The fighting there and in the border region of Abyei raised
concern of a return to the two-decade civil war in sub-Saharan
 Africa ’s third-biggest oil producer that ended in 2005.  Mbeki last week mediated an accord between the north and
south to withdraw their troops from Abyei and allow Ethiopian
peacekeepers to deploy in the area. Sudan’s army seized the main
town in Abyei on May 21.  ‘Common Border’  Delegations from the two sides signed today’s accord in
Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian capital, to “reaffirm” a May 30
agreement to establish the “common border zone,” the AU panel
said.  Southern Sudan has accused President Umar al-Bashir’s
government of attempting to militarily occupy disputed border
areas before the south’s independence.  Southern Kordofan borders the oil-rich states of Unity and
Upper Nile in Southern Sudan, which will assume control of about
75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels
when it becomes independent on July 9. The crude is pumped
mainly by China National Petroleum Corp., Malaysia’s Petroliam
Nasional Bhd and India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  The state accounts for about 115,000 barrels per day,
according to Sudan’s minister of state for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  Al-Bashir’s government in Khartoum accused the Southern
Sudanese army of starting the violence in both Southern Kordofan
and Abyei.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 