-- 
Syria Death Toll Exceeds 1,500 Amid New Army Assault, Rights Group Reports

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-06-29T19:58:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/syria-death-toll-climbs-above-1-500-since-march-as-army-maintains-assault.html
Syrian security forces have killed
1,504 people since the start of anti-government demonstrations
in mid-March, said  Ammar Qurabi , head of the National
Organization for Human Rights in Syria.  The death toll increased in the past day as tanks and
helicopters pressed on with an assault on the village of Rameh
in the northern province of Idlib, killing at least four people,
Qurabi said in a telephone interview.  Hundreds of people have also been detained in the Damascus
suburbs of Barzeh, Harasta and Kaswa, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the
Arab Organization for Human Rights, said by phone today from the
capital. Arrests also took place in the southern area of Daraa,
where the unrest began in March, he said.  The unrest continued even as about 200 Syrian intellectuals
and academics who are critics of President Bashar al-Assad’s
government met this week at a conference in Damascus. Some
activists say the event was intended to set the stage for a
dialogue, and most argue that it won’t work without tangible
policy changes by the government.  “The situation is no longer about people’s demands, it’s
about implementing change on the ground and moving beyond the
stage of asking the government to act,” Qurabi said, adding:
“I expect military operations to continue.”  National Dialogue  At least 20,000 people have been detained since the start
of the unrest, and half of them remain in detention, according
to Qurabi.  A national dialogue committee formed by the government has
set July 10 as the date for convening a consultative meeting,
which intellectuals and political and national personalities are
invited to attend, the official  SANA news agency  reported this
week.  Thousands of Syrians have fled across the border to  Turkey 
to escape violence in northern towns, straining relations
between the countries. The number of Syrian refugees in Turkish
camps has swelled to 11,739, Turkey’s state-run Anatolia news
agency said June 24.  Assad blamed the protests on a foreign conspiracy last
week. U.S.-backed efforts to get the  United Nations Security
Council  to condemn Assad and order a halt to attacks have
foundered amid opposition from  Russia ,  China ,  Brazil  and  India .  U.S. Sanctions  The U.S. Treasury Department said it had sanctioned Syrian
and Iranian security forces for involvement in the Syrian
crackdown.  The sanctions designate “one of the four major branches of
Syria’s security forces, the Syrian Political Security
Directorate, for engaging in the commission of human rights
abuses in  Syria , as well as  Iran ’s national police for providing
support to the Syrian regime. The chief and deputy chief of
Iran’s national police and the head of the Syrian Air Force
Intelligence were also sanctioned today,” according to a
Treasury Department statement issued by e-mail in  Washington .  Russia called for an end to violence in Syria yesterday and
said it will remain a friend of the Syrian people regardless of
who is in power in the Middle Eastern country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Dubai at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  