-- 
U.K., France, Spain Lead 12 EU Nations Meeting CCS Law Deadline

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-06-29T17:12:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/u-k-france-spain-lead-12-eu-nations-meeting-ccs-law-deadline.html
Britain, France and  Spain  led 12 of
the 27 nations in the European Union in meeting a deadline to
adopt a law governing storage of carbon dioxide underground.  Belgium ,  Denmark , Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania,  Luxembourg ,
Austria, Romania and Finland also met the June 25 goal, said
Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman for the European
Commission, the executive arm of the union.  The directive, a piece of EU legislation that member states
must implement into national law, establishes guidance for the
safe storage of CO2 underground as  Europe  tries to entice
investors to bet on a technology that captures and stores
emissions underground in a bid to fight  climate change .  Notifications are still being received though the deadline
has already passed, according to Valero-Ladron. “In this sense
it is a moving target,” he said.  The Commission is running a contest to fund at least  eight
CCS projects  using funds generated from the sale of 300 million
allowances to emit carbon dioxide. Nations such as the U.K., the
Netherlands, Poland and  Germany  are planning so-called carbon
capture and storage demonstration projects to help meet their
emission reduction goals. No plants bigger than 100 megawatts
have been built yet.  The Commission will check the notifications it’s received
for “completeness,” Valero-Ladron said. “The Commission will
issue letters of formal notice to member states that have
submitted no or only partial transposition notification as part
of due process,” he added.  The “letters of formal notice” mark the beginning of an
infringement procedure the Commission takes when member states
don’t fulfill EU law obligations. That’s followed by steps
requesting compliance with the law and the process could lead to
a possible fine if the nation doesn’t do so, though in 90
percent of cases member states comply, Valero-Ladron said.  The  directive  2009/31/EC lays down requirements for the
lifetime of a storage site. It guides, among other things, on
measures to be taken in case of CO2 leakage and responsibility
for the storage sites once they are closed. No geological
storage of carbon dioxide will be allowed without a storage
permit, according to the directive.  Sites that pose no significant risk of leakage,
environmental or health risks under the proposed conditions of
use may be selected, according to the directive.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 