-- 
U.K. Services Drop Most Since January 2010

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-29T08:39:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/u-k-services-drop-most-since-january-2010.html
Britain’s services industries shrank
the most in more than a year in April as an extra public holiday
for the royal wedding disrupted some businesses.  Services, which account for about three quarters of the
economy, contracted 1.2 percent from March, when the sector grew
0.8 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said in London
today. That’s the biggest decline since January 2010. In the
three months through April, the index of services rose 0.9
percent from the previous three months.  “The data is distorted by the bank holidays, but the big
picture is that any temporary loss from will be recouped the
following month,” Philip Rush, an economist at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in London, said before the data were released. “Given the
strength of services towards the end of the first quarter, it
really does set up for a very strong second quarter.”  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  has defended policy
makers’ decision to hold the key interest rate at a record low
this month as signs of a cooling recovery outweigh concerns
about soaring inflation. Data yesterday showed  consumer spending 
dropped the most in almost two years in the first quarter and
some officials see a potential need to extend stimulus.  Data from the central bank today showed mortgage approvals
rose less than economists forecast in May, underlining the
fragility of the housing market. Lenders granted 45,940 loans to
buy homes, compared with the median forecast of 18 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey for an increase to 46,300.  Weather Impact  The pound pared its gain against the dollar after the
reports were published. It traded at $1.6011 as of 9:32 a.m. in
London, up 0.1 percent on the day.  From a year earlier, the index of services was up 0.8
percent in April, the statistics office said. On a three-month
basis, the annual gain was 1.1 percent. On the month, the
decline in services was led by distribution as well as business
services and finance, which recorded the biggest fall since
November 2008. Hotels and restaurants grew 0.9 percent as warm
weather boosted demand.  While exports helped the U.K. economy grow 0.5 percent in
the first quarter, surveys of manufacturing, services and
building companies by  Markit Economics  show expansion in the
current quarter may not have exceeded 0.3 percent. Factory
production, which makes up about 13 percent of gross domestic
product, dropped the most since January 2009 in April, the ONS
said earlier this month. Services growth slowed to a three-month
low in May, Markit said on June 3.  Seperately, the statistics office said output per worker
increased 0.1 percent in the first quarter from the previous
three months and 0.3 percent on the year. Unit wage costs rose
0.5 percent on the quarter and 0.6 percent on the year.  Wage growth is lagging inflation, which was 4.5 percent in
May, more than twice the Bank of England’s target. While some
policy makers said there may be a need to add to the bank’s
bond-purchase program, Deputy Governor Paul Tucker indicated
yesterday he would be reluctant to back such a move, saying he
would have a “high threshold” for more stimulus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  