-- 
U.K. Insider-Trading Suspects Face Final Regulator Interviews, Lawyer Says

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-29T13:05:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/u-k-insider-trading-suspects-face-final-interviews-lawyer-says.html
Seven people arrested by Britain’s
financial regulator last year in its highest-profile insider-
trading probe are being called in by the regulator for final
interviews over the next three months.  Stephen Pollard, a lawyer for  Moore Capital ’s Julian Rifat,
said the suspects have been scheduled for interviews with the
regulator in July, August and September. The FSA is probing
whether the men engaged in the front-running of block trades by
using knowledge of upcoming securities sales, generally on
behalf of a corporate client, to generate a profit for
themselves.  The people, including employees from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
Exane BNP Paribas and Moore Capital Management LLC, were put on
extended bail until later this year as the Financial Services
Authority continues to investigate the case. The regulator
arrested the seven suspects in March of last year. Those
questioned include: Rifat, Deutsche Bank’s Martyn Dodgson,
Exane’s Clive Roberts, Novum Securities Ltd.’s Graeme Shelley
and Iraj Parvizi, a director of Aria Capital Ltd.  The FSA, which prosecuted its first criminal insider-
trading case in 2008, is “determined to take insider-dealing
enforcement right into the heart of the city,” its acting head
of enforcement, Tracey McDermott, said last month. The regulator
is under pressure to secure a conviction that is comparable to
U.S. prosecutors’ case against Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  ‘Little Tavern’  The FSA in March 2010 conducted dawn raids in the case,
codenamed Tabernula, Latin for “little tavern.” The arrests
came after two years of surveillance with the Serious Organised
Crime Agency, which typically targets criminal gangs and drug
traffickers.  Front running is a practice in which a trader takes a
position to capitalize on advance knowledge of a sale that is
expected to influence the price of stocks or commodities.  Bankers typically alert select money managers to planned
sales of securities before companies disclose them. The guidance
they get from fund managers helps underwriters measure demand
for the securities so they can better price them.  Under Section 118 of the U.K. Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000, money managers are barred from trading on such
information.  Chris Hamilton , a spokesman for the FSA, declined to
comment.  Littlewood, Calvert Convictions  The regulator in February secured the longest-ever U.K.
sentence for  insider trading  when former Dresdner Kleinwort
banker Christian Littlewood was imprisoned for 40 months after
admitting illegally trading over a 10-year period, along with
his wife and an accomplice.  The FSA successfully tried  Malcolm Calvert , an ex-partner
at JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Cazenove unit, last year in its first
successful case against a finance professional for insider
trading. It had previously convicted a former company lawyer, a
brokerage intern and his father, a dentist, in two other cases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 