-- 
U.K. Schools Closed by Pension Strike; Few Airport Disruptions Reported

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 
2011-06-30T13:29:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/u-k-schools-closed-as-public-workers-strike.html
U.K. public-sector workers went on
strike today, closing schools and museums to protest curbs on
pensions. A walkout by immigration staff caused little
disruption at airports.  The government said just under 100,000 civil servants, less
than 25 percent of the total, were on strike at noon. It
disputed  Public and Commercial Services Union  estimates that 90
percent of its members in the Department for Work and Pensions
were on strike and that 85 percent of staff at the Revenue and
Customs service stayed away from work.  Four unions with 750,000 members staged the one-day strike
to fight proposals for government employees to retire later and
contribute more to their pensions. The government says the
changes are essential to make pensions sustainable and help trim
the U.K.’s fiscal deficit.  “The vast majority of hard-working public-sector employees
do not support today’s premature strike and have come into
work,” Cabinet Office minister Francis Maude said in an e-
mailed statement. “Reform of public-sector pensions is
inevitable.”  British Airways and BAA Ltd., which runs  London Heathrow ,
 Europe ’s biggest hub, and five other U.K. airports, said there
were no delays at passport control as a result of the
immigration officers’ action.  Schools Out  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman, Steve Field, told
reporters that 48 percent of the 21,565 schools in England and
 Wales  were closed or only partially open, with no information on
another 29 percent. Most services at the tax-collection and
employment agencies were still running, he said. The PCS said
its members closed all national museums in Wales.  London’s Metropolitan Police said more than 90 percent of
communications-center staff went on strike, delaying the average
time taken to answer an emergency call to 15 seconds, compared
with the 10-second target  “This is the best supported strike we’ve ever had,” PCS
General Secretary  Mark Serwotka  said in an e-mailed statement.
Union members have “sent a clear message to the government that
they will not tolerate these attacks on their hard-earned
pensions rights.”  Maude said less than half the union’s members were on
strike and fewer had walked out than in previous disputes in
2004 and 2007.  ‘Paid Later’  “We will ensure that public-sector pensions will still be
among the very best, with a guaranteed pension which very few
private-sector staff now enjoy,” he said. “But they will be
paid later because people live longer. And public-sector staff
will pay more, for a fairer balance between what they pay and
what other taxpayers pay.”  Members of the PCS, the Association of Teachers and
Lecturers, the  National Union of Teachers  and the  University and
College Union  marched through central  London  and held
demonstrations in other cities.  “The government’s broken a contract they made,” said Mike
Hensmen, 62, who works for the National Apprenticeship Service
and was part of a three-man picket outside the Department for
Business, Innovation and Skills in London. “You can negotiate
new contracts and new conditions for people who join, but I
don’t believe you should drive down conditions for existing
staff. They’re trying to drive down conditions.”  Flights Normal  Heathrow and London’s third airport, Stansted, reported
normal operations.  “There are currently no significant issues at Heathrow,”
BAA spokeswoman Claire Lovelady said by phone. “It looks like
the problem may not be as great as some people thought.”  At Stansted, the biggest base for  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,
“there’s no disruption at all so far,” BAA spokesman Mark
Davison said. The U.K. Border Agency added extra workers as
cover for strikers with the result that staffing levels may
actually be higher than normal, he said.  Cameron’s Conservative-led administration is starting to
feel public pressure over its efforts to cut the  budget deficit ,
which will see the loss of more than 300,000 jobs in government
by 2015. The proposed overhaul of pensions comes at a time when
the economy is barely growing and inflation is outpacing pay
increases.  ‘Reasoned and Reasonable’  “We’re not seeking to be at loggerheads with the trade
unions, we all agree -- across the political spectrum -- that
public-sector pensions need to be reformed,” Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg  told reporters. “We want to do that in a
reasoned and reasonable way, but that reform does have to
happen.”  “We’re not saying no to change, we’re not saying no to
reality,” ATL President Andy Brown told a rally in London. “We
want to work with the government, we’ve offered time and again
to sit down and negotiate but we can’t do it with the loaded gun
of these proposals to our head.”  It’s the first time the union has been on strike.  The opposition  Labour Party  leader,  Ed Miliband , called on
both sides to resolve the dispute through talks.  “The strikes are wrong because negotiations are still
going on, but parents and the public have been let down by the
government as well, who have acted in a reckless and provocative
manner,” Miliband told BBC television. “Both sides should,
after today’s disruption, get around the negotiating table, put
aside the rhetoric and stop this kind of thing happening
again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  