-- 
U.K. Stocks Rally as Greece Passes Package of Austerity Measures

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-06-29T16:32:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/u-k-stocks-rally-for-fourth-day-glencore-mining-shares-climb.html
U.K. stocks climbed for a fourth
day, the longest stretch of gains in a month, after Greek
lawmakers passed a package of austerity measures needed to avoid
a default.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  led mining companies higher as base metals
rallied and the copper producer said it expects to see “huge
demand” from China.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  advanced as the company
opened a secondary listing in  Hong Kong .  Ferrexpo Plc (FXPO) ,  Man Group
Plc (EMG) ,  ITV Plc (ITV)  and  ICAP Plc (IAP)  all surged amid speculation they may
become takeover targets.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  increased 89.07, or 1.5
percent, to 5,855.95 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The gauge
has still lost 3.9 percent from this year’s peak in February
amid concern that Greece will default on its debt. The All-Share
Index also gained 1.5 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
rose 1 percent.  “The affairs in Greece are dominating what is otherwise a
relatively quiet market,” said Yusuf Heusen, senior sales
trader at IG Index in  London . “Traders have been riding the
recent wave of confidence on the broad-based assumption that the
austerity vote will be passed.”  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  clinched enough
votes to pass the first part of the austerity plan after gaining
155 votes in the 300-seat Parliament. The European Union has
made the budget cuts a condition of providing further aid to the
indebted country.  Antofagasta Advances  Antofagasta rallied 4.8 percent to 1,365 pence as Chief
Executive Officer Jean Paul Luksic said the company expects to
benefit from increased demand for metal as China and other
emerging economies develop.  Luksic, whose family controls Antofagasta, said the company
will continue to invest in new mines in Chile and overseas to
meet demand from the so-called BRIC economies of Brazil, Russia,
India and China.  Kazakhmys, Kazakhstan’s biggest copper producer, rallied
3.9 percent to 1,350 pence as the company listed on the Hong
Kong stock market. The shares also advanced as copper led base
metals higher on the London Metal Exchange.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, rose
2.7 percent to 2,404.5 pence and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  increased 4.5
percent to 1,341.5 pence.  Ferrexpo, Man Group  Ferrexpo, a producer of iron ore in Ukraine, gained 2.6
percent to 469.6 pence after the Independent cited speculation
from unidentified sources that BHP may make a takeover offer for
the Baar, Switzerland-based company at a price of 650 pence to
700 pence a share.  Man Group rallied 3.8 percent to 233.7 pence after the
Independent reported renewed takeover speculation for the hedge-
fund manager, without saying where it got the information. The
newspaper said previous talk had linked Man Group with Bank of
New York Mellon Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  ITV, the U.K.’s biggest commercial broadcaster, jumped 6.6
percent to 71.95 pence after rallying more than 5 percent in the
last hour of trading.  “We’ve seen a bit of activity in ITV towards the latter
part of the day,” said Kishan Mandalia, a sales trader at City
Index in London. “I did hear some bid speculation on ITV for
110 to 120 pence per share and RTL Group was named.”  ITV spokesman Mike Large and RTL spokesman Oliver Herrgesell
both declined to comment.  ICAP Jumps  ICAP, the world’s biggest broker of trades between banks
which had lost 18 percent this year through yesterday, surged
9.7 percent to 478.8 pence. That’s the biggest increase since
February 2010.  “There has been some talk about ICAP being bought out
again, but we have heard this in the past,” said Atif Latif, a
director of trading at Guardian Stockbrokers in London. “On a
more fundamental view, they have been sold off over the last few
months” as Chief Executive Officer  Michael Spencer  sold 1.5
million shares in May.  Mike Sheard, a spokesman at ICAP, declined to comment.  Charter International Plc (CHTR)  soared 28 percent to 787 pence on
the broader FTSE 250 Index after Melrose Plc proposed to buy the
engineering company for about 1.3 billion pounds ($2 billion).  Marks & Spencer Group Plc paced declining shares, dropping
2 percent to 361.6 pence after the Financial Times reported that
the retailer has begun its summer sale two weeks ahead of
schedule, without saying where it got the information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  