-- 
U.K. Prosecutors to Assist U.S. on Fund Bribery Probes

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-29T22:47:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/u-k-prosecutors-to-assist-u-s-on-wealth-fund-bribery-probes.html
U.K. prosecutors are assisting the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on inquiries involving
financial institutions and whether bribes were paid in
transactions with sovereign wealth funds.  The  Serious Fraud Office , which prosecutes corruption and
white collar crime in Britain, has been contacted by the U.S.
regarding the probes, SFO Director  Richard Alderman  said in an
interview yesterday.  “We’re talking to the Americans about various issues,”
Alderman said, without specifically identifying the companies.  The SEC is examining whether transactions with Libya’s
sovereign fund may have violated bribery laws, the Wall Street
Journal reported earlier this month, citing people it didn’t
identify. SEC officials are reviewing documents including those
related to a $50 million fee  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  agreed to
pay the Libyan fund to help recoup losses, the newspaper said.
The payment was never made, it said.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Goldman Sachs are among banks that
held funds for the Muammar Qaddafi-controlled Libyan sovereign
wealth fund, London-based advocacy group  Global Witness  said
last month. HSBC held $292.7 million across 10 accounts and
Goldman Sachs had almost $44 million in four accounts as of June
30, 2010, according to a  document  posted on  Global Witness ’s
website.  When asked about whether HSBC would be a focus for the SFO,
Alderman replied, “Yes, that’s the thought.”  HSBC spokesman Jezz Farr declined to comment. Goldman Sachs
spokeswoman Fiona Laffan also declined to comment.  SEC Probe  The SEC opened an investigation into whether banks,  hedge
funds  and private-equity firms paid placement agents to win
access to the state-owned money, four people familiar with the
matter said in January. An agent working with a sovereign wealth
fund may be considered a government official, making
interactions with that person subject to the U.S.’s Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act.  Bank of America Corp., Morgan Stanley, and Citigroup Inc.
received letters of inquiry from the SEC, one of the people said
at the time. Investigators are also scrutinizing whether the
firms improperly provided other benefits, including
entertainment or travel, directly to fund employees in order to
secure investments or sell securities.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 