-- 
U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for June 24 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-06-29T14:37:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-june-24-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 15.2 million barrels per
day during the week ending June 24, 31 thousand barrels per day
below the previous week’s average. Refineries operated at 88.1
percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production decreased last week, averaging nearly 9.1 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel production increased last week,
averaging about 4.4 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged just under 8.9 million barrels
per day last week, down by 271 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have
averaged 8.8 million barrels per day, 891 thousand barrels per
day below the same four-week period last year. Total motor
gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline
blending components) last week averaged 683 thousand barrels per
day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 80 thousand barrels per
day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 4.4 million barrels
from the previous week. At 359.5 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by
1.4 million barrels last week and are in the middle of the
average range. Finished gasoline inventories decreased while
blending components inventories increased last week. Distillate
fuel inventories increased by 0.3 million barrels last week and
are in the upper limit of the average range for this time of
year. Propane/propylene inventories increased by 1.7 million
barrels last week and are below the lower limit of the average
range. Total commercial petroleum inventories decreased by 0.3
million barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged nearly 19.0 million barrels per day, down by 1.7
percent compared to the similar period last year. Over the last
four weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged about
9.3 million barrels per day, down by 0.3 percent from the same
period last year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged
close to 3.6 million barrels per day over the last four weeks,
down by 4.7 percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel
product supplied is 3.4 percent higher over the last four weeks
compared to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  