-- 
Facebook, UBS, MBIA, Google, Credit Suisse in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-06-29T10:31:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/ubs-bofa-mbia-merrill-google-credit-suisse-in-court-news.html
Lawyers representing  Paul Ceglia ,
the western  New York  man who claims a 2003 contract with
 Facebook  Inc. co-founder Mark Zuckerberg entitles him to half of
Zuckerberg’s holdings, said they are quitting, less than three
months after taking on the case.  Seven lawyers, with the firms DLA Piper LLP and Lippes
Mathias Wexler Friedman LLP, announced the withdrawal in papers
filed yesterday in federal court in Buffalo, New York.  The lawyers gave no reason for leaving and said in the
filing that they will be replaced by Jeffrey Lake, a San Diego
attorney. Ceglia, 37, remains represented by Paul Argentieri,
the Hornell, New York, lawyer who filed the original complaint
against Palo Alto, California-based Facebook and Zuckerberg on
June 30, 2010.  “We have withdrawn from the case and no longer represent
Paul Ceglia,” DLA Piper said in a statement. “Due to our
attorney-client privilege obligations, there will be no further
comment.”  The lawyers’ withdrawal comes two days before a judge in
Buffalo will hear arguments on Facebook’s request for an order
requiring Ceglia to immediately turn over the original of the
contract, a set of alleged e-mails between Ceglia and Zuckerberg
and all of his computers. Facebook argued the order is needed to
short-circuit what it calls a “fraud on the court.”  Among the lawyers leaving the case yesterday are DLA Piper
partners Christopher Hall and Robert Brownlie and Lippes Mathias
partner Dennis Vacco, a former New York state attorney general.
Vacco declined to comment and the other lawyers didn’t return
calls seeking comment.  Argentieri and Lake didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Ceglia claims he is entitled to a multibillion-dollar stake
in Facebook. The closely held company is valued at as much as
$71 billion, according to Sharespost.com, an online marketplace
for investments in companies that aren’t publicly traded.
Facebook runs the world’s biggest social-networking site.  Facebook has denied Ceglia’s claim, calling the contract a
forgery and the suit a scam in court filings. Earlier this
month, the company asked the court to put on hold the normal
pretrial exchange of evidence and order Ceglia to turn over the
contract and other materials to determine whether they are
phony.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  For more, click here.  Bank of America Said to Near $8.5 Billion Settlement  Bank of America Corp. is nearing an $8.5 billion settlement
with a bondholder group including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  to resolve
claims over soured mortgage securities, three people briefed on
the talks said.  The bank’s board of directors met yesterday to discuss an
accord, which would resolve demands from institutional investors
that it buy back billions of dollars in home loans, said the
people, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the talks
aren’t public.  Investors, also including Pacific Investment Management Co.
and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, demanded in October
that the Charlotte, North Carolina-based company repurchase home
loans that had been packaged into bonds by Countrywide Financial
Corp., which was acquired in 2008 by Bank of America, the
nation’s largest lender by assets.  Jerry Dubrowski, a spokesman for Bank of America,  Brian
Beades  at New York-based BlackRock and Jeffrey Smith at the New
York Fed said they couldn’t comment. Kathy Patrick, a lawyer at
Houston-based Gibbs & Bruns LLP, who is representing investors,
also said she couldn’t immediately comment. Mark Porterfield, a
spokesman for Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, didn’t
return phone and e-mail messages seeking comment.  UBS Can Sue MBIA Over Restructuring, N.Y. Highest Court Says  UBS AG (UBSN) , Bank of America Corp. and about a dozen other banks
won reinstatement of a lawsuit against MBIA Inc. challenging the
2009 restructuring of its insurance unit that guaranteed toxic
debt.  The state Court of Appeals in Albany, New York’s highest
court, announced its decision yesterday, overturning a lower-
court ruling.  A state appellate court in January dismissed the suit by
the banks, which claimed the bond insurer’s restructuring was
intended to defraud policyholders. The banks claim the
restructuring was a “fraudulent conveyance” that left MBIA
undercapitalized and possibly unable to pay future claims.  The Court of Appeals decision turned on whether approval of
the split by the state Insurance Department superintendent
precluded the bank policyholders’ claims.  The decision restored the banks’ claims of fraudulent
conveyance, breach of contract and abuse of the corporate form.
The court agreed with the lower court that a claim for unjust
enrichment should be dismissed.  “We are disappointed by the court’s decision, but as it is
strictly a procedural ruling it does not address the merits of
the case, and we remain confident that we will ultimately
prevail,” Willard Hill, MBIA’s chief marketing and
communications officer, said in an e-mailed statement.  “This is a significant victory,” Robert Giuffra Jr., lead
counsel for the banks and a partner at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP
in New York, said in an interview. “The position MBIA was
proposing was one that basically would have resulted in a
massive increase in the power of administrative agencies in New
York state government and less power for courts.”  The banks said in court filings that the split transferred
$5 billion in cash and securities out of MBIA’s primary
operating unit, MBIA Insurance Corp., to another entity, now
known as National Public Finance Guarantee Corp.  The banks suing also include French banks BNP Paribas and
Societe Generale and a unit of Belgian bank KBC Groep NV, the
recipient of 7 billion euros ($10 billion) in Belgian government
rescue funds.  The case is ABN Amro Bank NV v.  MBIA Inc. (MBI) , 601475-2009, New
York state Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Madoff Trustee Serves Summons on Citigroup Fund Company  The trustee liquidating Bernard Madoff’s firm served a
summons on a Citigroup Inc. affiliate that was named as a
defendant in a $975 million lawsuit against so-called feeder
fund Kingate Global Fund Ltd., according to a court filing
yesterday.  Citi Hedge Fund Services Ltd. of Bermuda was administrator
for the Kingate funds, which put all their money in the Ponzi
scheme, according to trustee Irving H. Picard’s lawsuit. Instead
of verifying Madoff’s pricing information, Citi Hedge calculated
the Kingate funds’ value using the con man’s data and reviewed
trade confirmations that were “facially impossible,” he said
in a suit amended this month.  Citi Hedge was bought by Citigroup in 2007, according to
Picard. Kingate Global paid the firm or its predecessor $4.2
million from 2000 to 2007, and Kingate Euro Fund Ltd. paid a
smaller amount, he said.  In the suit, Picard said the Kingate funds and other
parties should have known of the fraud and should be ordered to
return $975 million in funds they took out of the Ponzi scheme
before Madoff’s 2008 bankruptcy. HSBC Bank Bermuda Ltd.,
custodian for the Kingate funds, also was named as a defendant.  The funds are being liquidated in the British Virgin
Islands.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment. HSBC Holdings
Plc, which has asked a judge to dismiss a $9 billion Picard
lawsuit against it and feeder funds, has said it is fighting
Madoff-related claims. William Tacon of Zolfo Cooper, the
liquidator for the Kingate funds, has declined to comment on
Picard’s suit.  The case is Picard v. Ceretti, 09-1161, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Merrill, UBS Commit Fraud on Swaps, Lombardy Tells U.K. Court  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch unit and UBS AG
committed fraud and made “an unfair profit” through hidden
fees charged on swaps, according to U.K. court filings by the
Italian region of Lombardy, which must set aside millions of
euros to cover potential Greek bond losses.  Both banks “deliberately failed to disclose the implicit
costs of the transaction, intending to derive an advantage”
from the region’s “inexperience and ignorance,” lawyers for
Lombardy said in court filings this month.  The region was responding to lawsuits filed by Merrill
Lynch and UBS at the High Court in  London  last July. The banks
are seeking confirmation that derivatives contracts with the
region, home to Italy’s financial capital Milan, are valid.  The case centers on a 2002 agreement between the banks and
the region that changed the way Lombardy would repay a $1
billion 30-year bond. Under the deal, Lombardy was to make the
payments in installments instead of a so-called bullet repayment
when the bond matured. The banks set up a fund to invest the
city’s payments in securities, such as sovereign bonds, until
the debt matured. Lombardy said in a statement yesterday it will
set aside 153 million euros ($218 million) for potential losses
on Greek bonds held in the fund.  Lombardy claims Merrill hid 59.39 million euros in costs
from the region, and that UBS hid 35.95 million euros on the $1
billion deal. The costs were “abnormal and exorbitant,”
because “a reasonable or normal implicit cost of the sinking
fund was nil,” the region said. If the costs were known,
Lombardy wouldn’t have entered into the transaction, it said.  UBS, and its banker Gaetano Bassolino, Merrill and its
banker Daniele Borrega committed “truffa,” Lombardy said in
the filing, using the Italian word for fraud.  “I was 25, had recently graduated, and had a junior role
on the desk at the time of the transactions,” Bassolino said. A
spokeswoman for UBS declined to comment further.  Borrega, who like Bassolino was authorized by the U.K.
securities regulator at the time of the deals, declined to
comment through a bank spokesman. A spokesman for the region
also declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Sierra Club Can’t Join U.S. to Sue BP Over Spill, Judge Says  The Sierra Club lost its bid to join the U.S. government’s
civil lawsuit against  BP Plc (BP/)  seeking billions of dollars for
violations of pollution laws and damage to natural resources
during the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  The environmental group asked on Feb. 7 for “a seat at the
table” in the government’s case, saying environmentalists would
push for stiffer fines than the U.S. would. The government
argued that environmentalists could express their opinions
through “friend of the court” briefs.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Sally Shushan in New Orleans said in
her ruling yesterday that the Sierra Club could make its
positions known without becoming a party to the litigation.  “In the event there is a settlement, it will be able to
present public comment,” Shushan said in her ruling.  The court is overseeing more than 350 lawsuits against BP
and other companies involved in the worst offshore oil spill in
U.S. history.  The government may pursue fines against BP of $1,100 to
$4,300 per barrel spilled, depending on the level of negligence
it determines was involved in the incident. The government
lawsuit also seeks billions of dollars for restoration of
publicly owned wetlands, marshes, beaches, fisheries and
wildlife harmed by the spill.  More than 4.1 million barrels of crude oil gushed from a
subsea well off the Louisiana coast, after the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig exploded and sank in April of last year. BP, as
owner of the offshore lease, is legally responsible for civil
fines and natural resources restoration costs under the Oil
Pollution Act.  The Sierra Club, based in  San Francisco , claims regulators
may share some blame for the environmental damage because they
approved “BP’s grossly inadequate oil spill response plans”
and let London-based BP “overuse damaging oil dispersants”
during the government-directed spill clean-up effort, the
group’s lawyers said in court papers.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a U.S. Justice Department spokesman,
declined to comment. Eric Huber, a Sierra Club lawyer, didn’t
return a voice-mail message seeking comment after regular
business hours.  Daren Beaudo, a BP spokesman, declined to comment.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Icahn’s High River Sues for Access to Forest Labs Records  High River LP, a firm controlled by billionaire Carl Icahn,
sued  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  seeking details on a U.S. proposal
to bar the company and Chief Executive Officer Howard Solomon
from doing business with federal health programs.  Shareholders have a right to know what Solomon did or
failed to do to warrant such an “unprecedented” action by the
government, lawyers for High River said in the complaint filed
yesterday in Delaware Chancery Court.  “The company’s public disclosures about this affair have
been opaque, inaccurate and seemingly designed to reveal the
least possible information,” High River said in the complaint.
“The stockholders have not even been informed of the factual
charges against Mr. Solomon.” U.S. Food and Drug
Administration.  Forest said in April that it would contest plans by the
Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of the Inspector
General to bar it from U.S. programs. The action follows the
company’s guilty plea and $313 million settlement last year for
distributing its Levothroid drug before it was approved by the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration.  Icahn’s claims are “entirely without merit,” Forest Labs
said in an e-mail sent by outside spokesman Hugh Burns .  “The company previously has disclosed the sole basis of
the HHS-OIG action against Mr. Solomon, which is that he is
‘associated with’ Forest,” the company said in the statement.
“Mr. Solomon has never been accused of any wrongdoing in
connection with the matters settled by the company in 2010.”  The case is High River Limited Partnership v. Forest
Laboratories Inc., CA6614, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Google Sued for $421 Million by Paris Rival for Ad Policies  Google Inc. (GOOG)  was sued in France by a local competitor over
claims the world’s largest search engine blocks rivals from
reaping advertising revenue and gives preference to its own
sites in query results.  1PlusV, a Paris-based web publisher, filed the lawsuit to
the Paris Commercial Court yesterday, seeking 295 million euros
($421 million) in damages and an order that Google post details
of alleged “anti-competitive behavior” on its French home page
for three months, 1PlusV said in an e-mailed statement.  “Google employed a number of anti-competitive practices
and unethical behavior over a period of four years to cripple
1PlusV’s ability to generate business and advertising,” 1PlusV
said in its statement. These practices include “suffocation of
technological competitors” and “manipulation of ‘natural
results.’”  1PlusV has made similar complaints against Google in two
filings to European Union competition regulators last year and
in February, saying the Mountain View, California-based company
discriminates against so-called vertical search sites like
1PlusV. Other companies including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  have joined
with 1PlusV in asking for a review of Google’s practices.  “We have only just received the complaint so we can’t
comment in detail yet,” Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in
Brussels, said in an e-mailed statement. “We always try to do
what’s best for our users. It’s the key principle that drives
our company and we look forward to explaining this.”  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Deutsche Bank’s Fitschen Backs Lender’s View in Kirch Suit  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  management board member Juergen Fitschen
backed the testimony of other executives at the lender that they
had no plan to make  Leo Kirch  hire the bank to restructure his
media group in 2002.  Fitschen testified about a management board meeting on Jan.
29, 2002, as part of a 2 billion-euro ($2.85 billion) lawsuit
filed by Kirch. At the meeting,  Rolf Breuer , the bank’s chief
executive officer at the time, talked about a dinner he had with
then-Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder regarding Kirch Media. No
decision was made to actively seek work from Kirch, Fitschen
testified at the Munich appeals court yesterday.  “We agreed that Breuer should seek talks with Kirch to see
where he stands,” said Fitschen. “Only after such a step had
been taken would we have formed an opinion on what to do.”  Kirch has claimed Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank secretly
planned in 2002 to damage his reputation in an effort to exert
pressure on him. According to Kirch, part of that plan was a
Feb. 3, 2002, interview Breuer gave on Bloomberg Television in
which the executive said, “everything that you can read and
hear” is that “the financial sector isn’t prepared to provide
further” loans or equity to Kirch. Within months, Kirch’s group
filed the country’s biggest bankruptcy since World War II.  Fitschen testified yesterday regarding language in the
minutes of the management board meeting. Chief Executive Officer
Josef Ackermann and Chairman Clemens Boersig also had testified
about that issue in May.  At the end of yesterday’s hearing, Presiding Judge Guido
Kotschy said that under the court preliminary assessment,
Ackermann and Boersig’s statement that the board only talked
about what it would do if it was approached by a third party,
wasn’t in line with the language of the minutes.  The judge also called “hardly believable” Breuer’s claims
that his comments about Kirch during the TV interview were an
“accident,” as the former Deutsche Bank chief had told the
court in February.  The judges scheduled more hearings in October and November
and will call several former executives of others lenders to
testify about a Feb. 14, 2002, meeting to which Deutsche Bank
had invited the media group’s banks. Kirch claims Deutsche Bank
suggested then that his group be broken up. Among the witnesses
to be called are Bernd Fahrholz, former Dresdner Bank AG CEO and
former Commerzbank AG CEO Klaus-Peter Mueller.  The next hearing is scheduled for Oct. 25.  The case is OLG Muenchen, 5 U 2472/09.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Judge Rejects SEC Claims That Morgan Keegan Misled Investors  A U.S. judge rejected Securities and Exchange Commission
claims that  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) ’s Morgan Keegan brokerage
unit misled investors about $2.2 billion in auction-rate
securities before the market for the instruments collapsed in
2008.  “The SEC has not introduced any evidence to show that
Morgan Keegan instituted a companywide policy encouraging its
brokers to misrepresent ARS liquidity risks,” U.S. District
Judge William S. Duffey Jr. said yesterday in a summary judgment
in Atlanta. The “failure to predict the market does not amount
to securities fraud.”  The SEC sued Morgan Keegan in July 2009, claiming it
encouraged brokers to push the debt before the $330 billion
market froze in February 2008, and customers weren’t told about
the growing risk the securities could become difficult to sell.
Since then, dozens of banks have returned billions of dollars to
harmed investors.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said the agency is
considering whether to appeal. A phone call after normal
business hours to Tim Deighton, a spokesman for Birmingham,
Alabama-based Regions, wasn’t immediately returned.  Federal and state regulators have sanctioned banks for
selling auction-rate securities as safe, cash-like investments.
The instruments are typically municipal bonds, corporate bonds
and preferred stocks whose rates of return are periodically
reset through an auction.  The SEC cited testimony of four customers claiming they
were misled by Morgan Keegan brokers who allegedly said ARS were
“cash equivalents” and “completely liquid,” according to the
judgment. Duffey faulted the agency for arguing those investors’
claims were true for others.  “The SEC is attempting to bootstrap the investor-specific
impact of the misrepresentations alleged by four individual
investors as a grounds to seek relief for a whole class of
investors without any evidence that the other investors received
similar oral misrepresentations,” Duffey said in the judgment.  Ex-Credit Suisse Broker Butler Has Resentencing Postponed  Former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  broker  Eric Butler , whose
securities-fraud conviction was overturned by an appeals court,
had his resentencing postponed on two other convictions.  Butler was to be resentenced yesterday. In a letter June 27
to U.S. District Judge Jack B. Weinstein in Brooklyn, New York,
his lawyers said Butler couldn’t be resentenced yet because of
procedural issues. They also said Butler would agree to have the
fraud charge remain in federal court in Brooklyn, even after the
appeals court said it belonged in federal court in Manhattan.
The agreement apparently means that the conviction would stand.  “The defendant will agree to venue in the Eastern District
of New York,” they wrote.  Butler and his partner,  Julian Tzolov , were convicted of
intentionally misleading clients about securities purchased on
their behalf.  One of Butler’s lawyers, Steven F. Molo, confirmed the
adjournment in a phone interview and said the parties would have
to discuss the procedural issues.  Robert Nardoza  , a spokesman
for U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch, declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  Madoff Judge Approves $212 Million Deal With Feeder Funds  A judge approved a $212 million settlement between the
trustee liquidating Bernard Madoff’s firm and two bankrupt U.S.
funds related to the Fairfield Greenwich Group, the biggest so-
called feeder fund in Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  approved the deal
yesterday in bankruptcy court in Manhattan.  Trustee Irving Picard made changes to the deal after
investors in Fairfield Sentry Ltd., a related fund, objected to
the settlement, which is part of a total $4 billion deal with
funds related to the Fairfield Greenwich Group. He agreed they
could sue fund managers to try to recoup their losses.  Under the agreement with Greenwich Sentry LP and Greenwich
Sentry Partners LP, Picard will drop claims of $212 million
against the funds. The funds in return will reduce their claims
against the Madoff bankruptcy estate and sign over claims they
had made against Fairfield Greenwich Group, according to court
papers.  Greenwich Sentry will cut its claim against the Madoff
estate to $35 million, from more than $140 million, and the
other fund’s claim will drop to about $2 million from $2.5
million.  Last month, Picard said he would end his effort to collect
$3.8 billion that three offshore Fairfield funds allegedly
withdrew from the Madoff firm in the final six years of the
fraud. The offshore funds agreed to cut their claims on the
Madoff estate.  Fairfield Greenwich Group, founded by Walter Noel, invested
about $7 billion with Madoff, according to court documents.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-1789, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  