-- 
Hugo Boss Plans Record Marketing

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 
2011-06-29T22:34:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/hugo-boss-plans-record-marketing-to-support-selection-line.html
Hugo Boss AG (BOS) , the German luxury
clothing company, will spend a record amount on marketing this
year to support the reintroduction of the Boss Selection line
following a positive response from retailers.  Spending on advertising and sponsorship will increase to
about 6 percent of revenue from last year’s 5 percent, Chief
Financial Officer Mark Langer said in an interview at the
clothier’s Metzingen headquarters. Marketing expenditure rose 23
percent to 90.9 million euros ($131 million) in 2010, returning
to the level of previous years after declining in 2009.  “Retailers have reacted very positively to our new Boss
Selection collection,” Langer said. The collection, which
includes casual leather jackets for as much as 2,000 euros, was
first shown at the Pitti Uomo fashion show in Florence,  Italy ,
where the clothier booked one of the biggest exhibition stands
and focused solely on the line, he said.  Boss Selection represents about 4 percent of group sales,
which the company forecasts will grow at least 12 percent this
year, excluding currency shifts.  Hugo Boss , which gets almost
two-thirds of revenue from  Europe , is benefiting from rising
demand for men’s wear in China, where it started a joint venture
with retailer Rainbow Group last year, the executive said.  Chinese people “are crazy about brands like Hugo Boss and
they are willing to pay much higher prices than western
customers,” Thomas Effler, an analyst at WestLB, said in an
interview. The Frankfurt-based analyst has a “neutral” rating
on the stock.  Share Outperformance  Hugo Boss has outperformed the broader German market this
year as most analysts advise clients to buy the stock. The
preferred shares have risen 16 percent in 2011, compared with a
6.1 percent gain in  Germany ’s MDAX index of mid-sized companies.
Fifteen of 22 analysts monitored by Bloomberg have a “buy”
rating on the stock, with only one advising clients to sell.  The new Boss Selection line offers a wider range, including
casual wear and sportswear, making the seasonal collection 25
percent to 30 percent bigger than before, the company said.  The increased advertising will demonstrate that the company
is putting new clothing ranges into stores more frequently,
Langer said. Hugo Boss has reduced the time taken to get
fashions from the design board into stores by 12 weeks to 38
weeks, according to the executive.  “The customer shall learn that the themes of our
collections are changing every six-to-eight weeks,” he said.  The clothier will introduce its first winter collections,
which have been produced more quickly than usual, in October.  Chinese Expansion  The new process will be of particular importance for
women’s wear and sportswear where fashion changes faster than
for men’s business suits and shirts, the CFO said.  China  will probably become Hugo Boss’s third-largest market
this year, overtaking  France  and the U.K., while still lagging
behind Germany and the U.S, according to Langer.  The clothier operates three Selection mono-brand stores in
Shanghai, Singapore and Macao and plans to add more in the Asia-
Pacific region, he said.  Mainland China, which doesn’t include  Hong Kong , Macau or
 Taiwan , will remain the fastest-growing market for high-end
goods in 2011 as sales rise 25 percent to 11.5 billion euros,
Bain & Co. said May 3. The country may become the world’s third-
largest luxury market in five years, the consulting firm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 