-- 
Human Rights Watch Tells Consumers to Refuse Zimbabwe Diamonds

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-06-29T16:06:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/human-rights-watch-tells-consumers-to-refuse-zimbabwe-diamonds.html
Human Rights Watch  called on
governments, companies and consumers to refuse to buy Zimbabwe
diamonds until all members of the Kimberley Process
Certification Scheme agree the country is protecting people’s
rights.  The Kimberley Process, which was created in 2003 to prevent
so-called “blood diamonds” from financing conflict, said on
June 23 that exports from Zimbabwe’s Marange fields could
resume. The decision was broadly supported by African countries,
while the U.S. and  Canada  objected.  “If diamonds from Marange are KP certified we’d be arguing
for consumers not to buy those diamonds from sellers,” Tiseke
Kasambala of Human Rights Watch said by phone from Johannesburg
today. “The allowing of exports while there are ongoing abuses
is a terrible decision.”  In 2009, restrictions were placed on the export of gems
from the Marange field, which is near  Zimbabwe ’s border with
Mozambique, after an investigation found human-rights violations
and smuggling at the site. In 2008, more than 200 people were
killed when Zimbabwean security forces took over the
concessions, according to a  Human Rights Watch  report.  Kimberley Process President Mathieu Yamba said June 23 that
Zimbabwe was now complying with the organization’s requirements
and had guaranteed cooperation with civil society
representatives and special monitoring of its exports. Yamba did
not answer his phone when called for comment by Bloomberg today.  “Consensus cannot mean that everyone has to say ‘yes’,”
he said June 23 in response to Canada’s objection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in  London  at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 