-- 
Hungary’s Five-Year Bonds Gain for 3rd Day as Greece Passes Bill

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-06-29T13:34:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/hungary-s-five-year-bonds-gain-for-third-day-before-greek-vote.html
Hungary ’s five-year government bonds
gained for a third day as  Greece ’s parliament passed the first
part of an austerity plan, easing concern its debt crisis will
spread to other indebted European countries.  The yield on the government notes maturing in 2017 fell
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.11 percent as
of 3:15 p.m. in Budapest. The forint appreciated 0.5 percent to
267.29 per euro, the biggest jump since June 21.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won approval of his
78 billion-euro ($112.3 billion) package of budget cuts and
asset sales, key to receiving further international financial
aid. Implementation of the plan, which will determine if the
indebted nation can receive further rescue funds, may be
complicated by escalating riots in  Athens .  “The Greeks are voting today on the austerity measures,”
analysts at Erste Group Bank AG in Budapest including Zoltan Arokszallasi wrote in a research report before the vote today.
“Markets are increasingly believing in a positive outcome.”  Hungarian government debt held by foreign investors rose to
a fresh record high of 3.52 trillion forint ($19 billion) as of
yesterday’s close, the most on record, compared with 2.61
trillion forint at the end of 2010, according to data from the
Debt Management Agency on Bloomberg.  The rise in foreign holdings leaves Hungary “exposed most
to portfolio investment flight” among emerging markets in
 Europe , Peter Attard Montalto and Olgay Buyukkayali, analysts at
Nomura International Plc in  London , wrote in a research report
today.  The peak in foreign holdings of Hungarian treasury bonds
and bills is “a good reminder of the risk that these bonds are
exposed to if the sovereign debt crisis spills over to more
countries,” strategists at BNP Paribas SA including Bartosz
Pawlowski wrote in a research report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  