-- 
Utah Seeks Law Firms to Probe Bowl Championship Series Antitrust Claim

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-06-29T21:53:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/utah-seeks-law-firms-to-probe-bowl-championship-series-antitrust-claim.html
Utah ’s attorney general is
organizing a legal team to pursue a lawsuit of alleged antitrust
violations tied to college football’s Bowl Championship Series.  The series, which claims to ensure that the two top-rated
teams in the country meet in a national championship game, is
“rigged to reward tens of millions of dollars to the preferred
conferences and universities at the expense of those that aren’t
preferred,” Utah Attorney General Mark Shurtleff said today in
an interview.  The system, which includes the Fiesta Bowl, Orange Bowl,
 Rose Bowl  and Sugar Bowl, is a “cartel” offering teams in
preferred conferences “pre-selected, automatic qualifying,”
Shurtleff said.  Shurtleff said he aims to file a lawsuit by the end of the
year and issued a request for information for lawyers interested
in pursuing the claims. The attorney general said his office
analyzed the Bowl Championship Series and shared its antitrust
findings with lawyers at the U.S. Justice Department, who are
“interested and very concerned,” he said.  The BCS is managed by the commissioners of the 11 National
Collegiate Athletic Association Football Bowl Subdivision
conferences, the director of athletics at the University of
 Notre Dame  and representatives of the bowl organizations,
according to the BCS website. The BCS says its conferences
include the Atlantic Coast, Big East, Big Ten, Big 12,
Conference USA, Mid-American, Mountain West, Sun Belt, Pacific-
10, Southeastern and Western Athletic.  BCS ‘Confident’  “The BCS was carefully created with antitrust laws in mind
and we remain confident that the BCS is a pro-competitive force
in college football,” Bill Hancock, executive director of the
 Bowl Championship Series , said in an e-mailed statement. “It
has brought significant and unprecedented benefits to the game,
the universities, the student-athletes and the fans.”  Shurtleff argues teams that don’t belong to the BCS’s
automatic-qualifying conferences -- such as Utah State
University and the University of Utah -- are unfairly excluded
from the process of determining who plays in the bowl games. The
BCS system costs Utah tens of millions of dollars in revenue,
and states across the U.S. hundreds of millions of dollars, he
said. He said BCS revenue comes from television contracts and
ticket and concession sales.  Shurtleff said the NCAA, which licenses the bowl games, is
failing to live up to its bylaws guaranteeing “full, free and
fair competition.”  Bob Williams, an NCAA spokesman, referred questions about
the Utah investigation to the BCS, saying “it is an independent
entity not administered by the NCAA.”  Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice
Department, said the agency continues to review information
provided to it to determine whether to open an investigation.
She declined to say whether the department is working with
Shurtleff.  The BCS championship game following the 2011 season will be
held at the Superdome in  New Orleans  in January 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  