-- 
Venezuela Approves $100 Million in Late Dividend Requests

-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-06-29T23:56:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/venezuela-approves-100-million-in-late-dividend-requests-1-.html
Venezuela approved $100 million for
33 companies to repatriate delayed dividends today in the food,
health and finance sectors including  Banco del Caribe CA Banco
Universal ,  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB)  and  Jarden Corp. (JAH)   The foreign currency requests that will be granted at the
official rate of 4.3 per dollar are the beginning of a process
to review dollar needs for foreign companies operating in
Venezuela, Vice President Elias Jaua said today during the event
in Caracas.  “We respect the private sector as long as the companies
comply with our constitution, laws and interests of the
Venezuelan people,” Jaua said. “Thank you for your patience in
this process.”  Since President  Hugo Chavez  installed currency controls in
2003, companies have had to turn to the  foreign exchange board ,
known as Cadivi, to request dollars at the official  exchange
rate  to repatriate earnings to headquarters. Cadivi began to
restrict the transfer of dividends in 2008 after  oil prices 
plunged, prompting the government to ration its hard currency.  Chavez has also nationalized key industries in the oil
producing nation since 2006, including the seizure of assets
from  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , Cemex SAB,  Owens-Illinois Inc. (OI)  and
Ternium SA.  ‘Positive Sign’  Cadivi President Manuel Barroso said today in an interview
that the total amount of dividend requests at the moment is
about $2 billion.  Venezuelan Finance Minister Jorge Giordani, central bank
President Nelson Merentes and representatives of foreign
companies in the South American country attended the event in a
hotel in Caracas.  “This is a positive sign from the government that we hope
continues for foreign companies operating in the country,” said
Juan Carlos Dao, president of Bancaribe, a local bank which
counts Canada’s  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  as a minority shareholder.  Venezuela has devalued its currency twice since the
beginning of 2010, which has caused some foreign companies to
report foreign exchange losses for their operations in the South
American country.  Government Aims  Besides Cadivi, companies used an unregulated currency
market until May 2010, when the government shuttered the market
and blamed its participants for fueling inflation and setting
artificial exchange rates.  Now companies must wait for the government to sell dollar
bonds in order to repatriate earnings or request money for
imports through the central bank’s currency market known as
Sitme, which allocates funds for imports at an exchange rate of
5.3 per dollar.  While the government will look to speed up the repatriation
of dividends, part of the earnings in local currency should be
re-invested into the country, Jaua said. The government also
wants to form joint ventures with private firms, he said.  “We’re going to work toward keeping your companies in
 Venezuela  so that earnings are not only repatriated but also re-
invested to support the development of the country,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  