-- 
Venezuela Cancels Summit as Chavez Health Questions Escalate

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-06-30T19:48:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/venezuela-said-to-cancel-latin-america-caribbean-summit-as-chavez-recovers.html
The Venezuelan government, citing
 Hugo Chavez ’s health problems, canceled a July 5-6 regional
summit just hours after broadcasting images of an apparently fit
president in Havana, a move that raised fresh questions about
the gravity of the socialist leader’s ailments.  Chavez was due to host the summit of the Community of Latin
American and Caribbean States, or CELAC, a hemispheric bloc that
excludes the U.S. and  Canada . Chavez is undergoing a “very
strict medical treatment” following an operation to remove a
pelvic abscess that prevented him from attending, the Foreign
Ministry said in a  statement .  “President Chavez wasn’t going to cancel such an important
event if his health wasn’t worse,” said Luis Vicente Leon,
director of Caracas-based polling firm Datanalisis. “This
information amplifies the worries that already exist about the
president’s health and without a doubt will generate a
significant increase in the rumors.”  Chavez has made Latin American integration -- which he sees
as countering the “imperialist” influence of the U.S. in the
region -- a centerpiece of his foreign policy, said  Michael Shifter , president of the Washington-based Inter-American
Dialogue, a public policy center on Western Hemisphere affairs.  He would have found the opportunity to host the summit
“irresistible,” Shifter said.  Surgery June 10  Chavez, 56, underwent surgery June 10 in Cuba as he
completed the final leg of a regional tour that also included
Brazil and  Ecuador .  The former paratrooper, who hadn’t spoken in public since
June 12, appeared in a video broadcast yesterday on  state
television  alongside  Fidel Castro , Cuba’s ex-president, in what
the Caracas government said was evidence of a satisfactory
recovery.  Chavez will address the nation on television from Cuba this
afternoon, Maracaibo-based newspaper  Panorama said  on its
website, citing government officials they didn’t identify. The
speech may occur at 6 p.m. local time, Panorama reported.  In the video yesterday, Chavez spoke animatedly while
standing and reading headlines from Cuban newspapers and then
sat in a rocking chair, chatting with Castro about his military
career and about former Chilean President Salvador Allende.  ‘Bring Calm’  “These images should bring calm to the Venezuelan people
about the president’s health,” Information Minister Andres Izarra said after still images of the meeting were shown on June
28. “Images speak more than a thousand words.”  The yield on  Venezuela ’s benchmark 9.25 percent dollar
securities due in 2027 has fallen 68 basis points, or 0.68
percentage points, to 13.07 percent, since closing June 10 at
13.75 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The price rose 1.0 cents on the dollar to 74.50 cents at
3:25 p.m. in New York trading today.  The cost of protecting Venezuelan debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 41 basis points to
976 today, the lowest since May 3, 2010, according to data
compiled by CMA in  London . The country’s credit-default swaps
have plunged 235 basis points since June 20.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The Foreign Ministry didn’t say whether Chavez will return
for the 200th anniversary of the country’s independence from
 Spain , also on July 5.  Public Celebrations  Chavez, who frequently invokes  Simon Bolivar  in speeches
and talks of fulfilling the South American liberator’s dream of
uniting the continent as one state, has used the bicentenary
celebrations as a rallying cry to stoke nationalist sentiment
ahead of elections next year. He renamed a chain of supermarkets
expropriated last year from Saint-Etienne, France-based Casino
Guichard Perrachon the “Bicentenary Hypermarket.”  Should Chavez fail to attend the public celebrations, his
hold on power will appear even more fragile, said  Christopher Sabatini , senior director of policy at the Council of the
Americas, a New York-based international business organization
focusing on the Western Hemisphere.  “Showing up at the celebrations will only lessen the blow
if this has all been a ploy and he appears in full vigor,”
Sabatini said in an e-mail. “If not, the inherent weakness of
the Bolivarian project and of Chavez as a human has been made
painfully obvious.”  Seclusion, Opposition  Aside from a June 12 telephone interview on the Telesur
network and messages on his  Twitter account  on June 25, Chavez,
who has occupied Venezuelan airwaves during his 12 years in
power with speeches that have stretched as long as six hours,
had been silent since June 10.  The president’s post-surgical seclusion and lack of
information about his health have raised questions about whether
he should be running  South America ’s largest oil producer from
 Havana .  Ramon Guillermo Aveledo, executive secretary of the
opposition Democratic Unity Table alliance, called on Vice
President Elias Jaua today to replace Chavez until he recovers,
according to a statement.  Aveledo said the opposition will continue with its plans to
remove Chavez through the ballot box next year. The fact that
there are rumors circulating that Chavez’s health may be worse
than he is letting on is the fault of the government for
providing sparse information, he said.  ‘Lack of Transparency’  “There is a lack of transparency through a lack of
democratic spirit in the government in relation to information
about the president’s health,” Aveledo said, according to the
statement.  A full-blown political crisis could ensue if Chavez’s
opponents decide to force the government’s hand by staging
marches and demonstrations that could provoke a violent reaction
from the government, Sabatini said.  Chavez’s extended convalescence is providing an already
bolstered opposition with “even more of an edge” in
presidential elections scheduled for next year, RBS Securities
Inc. debt strategists Siobhan Morden and Felipe Hernandez wrote
in a note to clients today.  “We do not believe that the sympathy votes from illness
would be an effective campaign tactic, but rather risk losing
voters who appeal to his strong-man image,” the report said.  An opposition win in elections next year would cause
Venezuela’s borrowing costs to drop 500 basis points, or 5
percentage points, Morden and Hernandez said.  Another theory that has been circulating in Caracas is that
Chavez has been allowing speculation to brew that his condition
is worse than it is before making a triumphant return on July 5.  “With this news I think we can safely rule out that this
is a Chavez ploy,”  Inter-American Dialogue ’s Shifter said in an
e-mailed response to questions. “He may not be on his deathbed,
but he’s got a serious health problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  