-- 
VeriFone to Unveil Tablet Credit-Card Reader This Year to Take On Square

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-06-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/verifone-new-tablet-credit-card-reader-to-compete-with-square.html
VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY)  will introduce
a tablet-computer accessory this year that makes it easier for
retailers to accept credit and debit cards, Chief Executive
Officer Douglas Bergeron said.  The product will encase tablets including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad
and Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy Tab, offering businesses an
alternative to a payment device from startup Square Inc. and
traditional cash-register terminals, he said. Several retailers
are testing the device, to be released after the end of August,
he said. No price has been set.  “We are trying to make payments an easier and richer
experience,” Bergeron said in an interview. The device
communicates wirelessly with retailers’ financial systems, he
said.  VeriFone is chasing a stake in a potential $100 million
U.S. market for accessories, software and services that read
cards on tablets, Bergeron said. The product could help VeriFone
boost sales at large retail stores and set it apart from  Square ,
which targets mom-and-pop shops with card readers for
smartphones and tablets.  Square got fresh ammunition yesterday in its bid to fend
off rivals. The startup said it raised $100 million in funding
from investors led by venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers.  Retailers are increasingly moving away from traditional,
stationary cash registers to mobile checkouts. More than 50
percent of large specialty stores plan to deploy tablets in the
next 12 months, according to a January survey by market
researcher  IHL Group  in Franklin,  Tennessee . Sales associates
can use the devices to look up information on products, place
orders and accept payments.  Consumer Purchases  “The salesperson who spends half an hour with you
explaining the product should close the deal right there,”
Bergeron said. “You can increase sales.”  Many consumers research their purchases in a brick-and-
mortar store only to purchase the items later online, he said.  Card-accepting tablets will probably increase an average
store’s outlay for payment products from companies like VeriFone
and Ingenico by about 20 percent within three years, said Greg Buzek, founder of IHL Group.  “It’s an opportunity for the VeriFones of the world to
sell more devices,” Buzek said.  Square’s business model isn’t threatened by competing
entries in the market for tablet payments, said Keith Rabois,
chief operating officer of Square. The company remains focused
on selling its products to the 29 million small businesses that
currently don’t accept credit cards, he said.  “We have our own vision for improving buying and
selling,” Rabois said. “We don’t pay much attention to what
others are doing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland ,  Oregon , at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 