-- 
Vodafone Sees Annual Verizon Dividend of Up to $5.5 Billion

-- B y   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a
-- 
2011-06-30T09:14:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/vodafone-sees-potential-verizon-wireless-dividend-of-up-to-5-5-billion.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s
largest mobile-phone company, said it could potentially get an
annual dividend of as much as $5.5 billion from its 45 percent
stake in U.S. venture Verizon Wireless.  The calculation is based on an assumed Verizon Wireless
annual free cash flow of $10 billion to $12 billion, Vodafone
Chief Financial Officer Andy Halford told reporters in  New Delhi 
yesterday. No agreement has been reached yet, he said.  Bob Varettoni , a Verizon spokesman, declined to comment.  Vodafone has retained its stake in Verizon Wireless, the
largest U.S. wireless provider, even after failing to receive a
dividend from the company since 2005, while partner  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  focuses on paying down debt. Verizon said in
January it may pay a “fair dividend” to Vodafone.  “We see the CFO’s comments on  Verizon Wireless  dividend as
significant progress,” Royal Bank of Scotland analyst Lawrence Sugarman said today. “Halford’s comments mark the first time
Vodafone has gone on the record as to what quantum of dividend
it could expect.”  RBS today upgraded its recommendation for Vodafone shares
to “Buy” from “Hold,” with a target price of 190 pence.  Vodafone dropped 0.2 percent to 165.10 pence in London
trading as of 9:43 a.m., valuing the Newbury, England-based
company at 84 billion pounds ($134 billion). New York-based
Verizon Communications rose 0.4 percent to $36.72 in New York
Stock Exchange yesterday.  Reducing Debt  “What we find interesting is whether Halford is just
giving a theoretical number based on the free  cash flow , or
whether this is his expectation or understanding of what the
actual dividend should be,” Sugarman said.  Verizon Wireless had $9.6 billion of net debt at the end of
March, Halford said in May. The company is paying down about $1
billion each month, he said.  Vodafone Chief Executive Officer Vittorio Colao has focused
on unwinding some of his predecessors’ takeovers. Arun Sarin
pushed Vodafone into markets such as Ghana and Turkey.
Christopher Gent led Vodafone through a six-year $300 billion
acquisition spree.  Vodafone sold a stake in China Mobile, reduced interests in
 Japan ’s Softbank Corp. and this month completed a sale of its 44
percent holding in French wireless operator SFR to  Vivendi SA. (VIV) 
The U.K. company is now pursuing a disposal of its 24 percent
stake in Polish mobile-phone operator Polkomtel SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mehul Srivastava in New Delhi at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  