-- 
WaMu Judge Allows More Creditors to Join Insider Trading Probe of Funds

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-06-29T22:17:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/wamu-judge-allows-more-creditors-to-join-insider-trading-probe.html
A group of  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) 
shareholders, including Black Horse Capital, can join a probe of
four hedge funds accused of using confidential data to trade
debt of the bankrupt former  bank holding company , a judge ruled.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath today gave the holders
of WaMu trust preferred securities access to information already
collected by an official shareholders committee. Walrath
declined to give either group any more information, except for a
single compliance report from one of the four hedge funds,
Aurelius Capital Management LP.  Allowing the two groups to share the confidential
information would allow them to coordinate their effort to
defeat WaMu’s proposed reorganization plan when it comes before
Walrath next month, committee attorney Edgar Sargent said in
U.S.  Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware .  “Their rights as a party means they are entitled to the
information,” Walrath said.  During a three-day hearing set to start July 13, WaMu will
try to persuade Walrath to approve a reorganization plan that
would distribute more than $7 billion to creditors. The trust
preferred shareholders and the shareholder committee say they
will oppose the plan, using evidence they claim shows the  hedge
funds  may have violated  insider trading  laws.  Aurelius, Centerbridge  The shareholder committee says Aurelius, Centerbridge
Partners LP, Appaloosa Management LP and Owl Creek Asset
Management LP may have used confidential information they
obtained while negotiating with WaMu to buy the company’s debt.
The hedge funds have repeatedly denied the allegations and claim
the committee is just trying to force senior creditors to pay
something to shareholders.  Walrath refused to grant the shareholders more access to
information they said they needed to prepare for next month’s
hearing. She only required Aurelius to provide a copy of a
report on how well the hedge fund complies with its own ethical
rules.  An agreement to end the investigation fell apart this
month, prompting the shareholder committee to renew its plans to
question the hedge funds at the July hearing. WaMu’s
reorganization plan would pay senior noteholders, including the
four hedge funds, in full and give shareholders nothing.  2008 Bankruptcy  WaMu, based in  Seattle , filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $1.9 billion.
WaMu’s Washington Mutual Bank was the biggest bank to fail in
U.S. history, with more than 2,200 branches and $188 billion in
deposits.  Giving the trust preferred holders access to the hedge fund
documents will delay WaMu’s exit from bankruptcy by having two
groups trying to prove insider trading occurred, David Stratton,
an attorney for the official committee of unsecured creditors
told Walrath today.  “The creditors’ committee does not believe there is any
evidence that any of the noteholders engaged in insider trading
or other inequitable conduct,” the committee said in court
papers filed yesterday. “Instead, it appears that by trying to
exploit this issue the equity committee is, for at least the
fourth time in this case, trying to delay these proceedings in
an inappropriate effort to extract value from the debtors’
legitimate creditors.”  The case is In re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229 in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 