-- 
Weidmann Says Banks May Transfer Risk If Too Strictly Regulated

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-06-29T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/weidmann-says-banks-may-transfer-risk-if-too-strictly-regulated.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Jens Weidmann said banks may transfer risky
activities into less regulated business areas if authorities are
over-zealous.  “Stricter regulation carries the risk that banks
increasingly move their risks into areas that are lightly or not
at all regulated,” Weidmann said at an event in Berlin today.
“The crisis has shown that in these exact areas, risks can
develop that, through their repercussions on banks, endanger the
whole financial system. Since they could spread systemic risks,
as the crisis has shown, regulation must also cover the shadow
banking system.”  The shadow banking system, which includes structured
investment vehicles used to move transactions off balance
sheets, had liabilities of about $16 trillion in the first
quarter of 2010, the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  said in a
report last year. Regulators are at loggerheads with some banks
over capital rules, with lenders arguing the requirements may
harm the global economic recovery.  Global regulators decided on June 25 that banks deemed too
big to fail must hold as much as 2.5 percentage points in
additional capital as part of efforts to prevent a repeat of the
financial crisis unleashed by the failure of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. That’s on top of a core Tier 1 Capital of 7
percent of risk-weighted assets internationally active banks
should hold.  Regulators “must find instruments” to make systemically
important financial institutions, or SIFIs “more resistant,”
Weidmann said. “Even for a SIFI with a strengthened capital
base, a default can’t be excluded,” he added. “Restructuring
funds could be a complementary instrument for cleaning-up and
winding-down procedures.”  At the same time “we mustn’t succumb to the illusion that
all risks can be regulated away,” Weidmann said. “In a market
economy, it is in the responsibility of market participants to
assess risk, to control and to be liable with the invested
assets in case of losses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Black  in Berlin at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  