-- 
Wells Fargo Agrees to Sell H.D. Vest Brokerage to Parthenon

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-06-29T21:35:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/wells-fargo-will-sell-h-d-vest-brokerage-to-equity-firm-parthenon-capital.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
home lender, agreed to sell the H.D. Vest Financial Services
brokerage and tax-advisory unit to Parthenon Capital Partners, a
private-equity firm.  The companies didn’t disclose a price in a statement
announcing the deal today. San Francisco-based Wells Fargo
bought H.D. Vest for $128 million in 2001, and it had a book
value of about $142 million as of Dec. 31, according to a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission  filing .  Wells Fargo became the owner of the third-largest U.S.
retail brokerage after buying Wachovia Corp. in 2008. Chief
Executive Officer John Stumpf, 57, has been revamping the bank’s
wealth, brokerage and retirement business after calling it
“sub-optimized” in December.  H.D. Vest supports a network of 4,800 independent tax
professionals who are licensed to sell securities. The firm
“does not align precisely with the business model of Wells
Fargo Advisors, Wells Fargo’s retail brokerage unit, which is
centered on supporting full-time financial advisers,” the bank
said in the statement.  Wells Fargo will continue to maintain a separate network of
independent advisers through its Wells Fargo Advisors, the
lender said.  Wells Fargo used its investment bankers for advice on the
sale and law firm Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP.  H.D. Vest was founded by Herb D. Vest in 1983 and is based
in Irving, Texas. Parthenon has offices in Boston and  San
Francisco .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 