-- 
Forget the Hamptons, Dip and Sip at Manhattan’s Poshest Pools

-- B y   L i l i   R o s b o c h   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   S m i t h
-- 
2011-06-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/who-needs-the-hamptons-dip-and-sip-at-manhattan-s-poshest-swimming-pools.html
This happens all the time,
especially when it’s hot: You wake up and decide it’s a perfect
day to lounge around a pool sipping something cold.  If you aren’t already at the Hamptons, you’ll need access
to deck chairs, a pool and drinks. Here’s our list of options in
Manhattan:  By far the most straightforward is the midtown  Holiday Inn 
with an outdoor, rooftop pool, plastic lounge chairs and a long
line of liquor bottles that shimmer against a wall the color of
sea foam. Frozen-drink machines dispense strawberry daiquiris
and pina coladas for $8. Burgers cost $5; hotdogs are $3.  Kids are allowed, though the sign says the lifeguard can
eject them at will every hour on the hour for an adult swim.  The pool is open from 10 to 6 daily; access costs $70 and
includes a towel. But consider the $25 day pass for the over 21
set. It’s available Monday through Friday after 3 p.m. A little
research revealed that deck chairs are first-come, first-served
and fill up quickly on the weekend. Cash only.  Holiday Inn Midtown is at 440 W. 57th St. Information: +1-
212-581-8100;  http://www.holidayinn.com/ .  James Hotel  The glass elevator at The  James  is a good indication of the
swank scene that awaits on the rooftop above the 17th floor. The
hotel’s modern indoor bar and small outdoor pool with deck, both
under a vague door policy, are surrounded by views of Midtown,
 Wall Street  and the  Hudson River .  Grab an orange towel and an open lounge chair. Stop inside
at the Jimmy for a St. George Absinthe Drip ($22). Don’t despair
of the cost; the pool is free from noon to 5 p.m. on weekends.
Swimming is off-limits at all other times unless you’re a hotel
guest.  The James is at 27 Grand St. Information: +1-212-465-2000;
 http://www.jameshotels.com/New-York.aspx   The Peninsula  To get access to the brand-new, wrap-around sun deck
opening on July 1 and the glass-enclosed pool at the Peninsula
hotel, book a “Spa-cation” Monday through Thursday for $285.
It includes 75 minutes of treatments like holistic massage or
intensive facial, a bento-box lunch, yoga, sunscreen and more.  While there’s no swim-up bar, there’s a full-time
attendant, and cocktails like a $22 frozen margarita are just a
room-service bell away.  To get access on the weekend, book two hours of spa
services for approximately $400 or ask for a summer fitness
membership for $500 monthly with a three month minimum. The
luxurious facilities are located on the top three floors of the
22-story hotel with views over Central Park.  The Peninsula is at 700 Fifth Ave. at 55th St. Information:
+1-212-956-2888;
 http://www.peninsula.com/New_York/en/default.aspx .  Gansevoort Meatpacking  The Gansevoort Meatpacking also offers full access to its
rooftop pool Monday through Thursday for the cost of a $299
Renewal Day Package. It includes spa services like massage,
facial and manicure/pedicure, and a poolside drink from the
adjacent Plunge bar. Cocktails include raspberry caipirinhas and
the French Kiss, which combines vodka, Chambord and Champagne.  If you’re claustrophobic, this might not be your place. The
sundeck is only a narrow strip surrounding the pool, separated
from the bar by a hazy glass wall.  Still, the view is great, and when you have sun, swimming
and cocktails in the heart of  Manhattan  there’s not much to
complain about.  Gansevoort Meatpacking is at 18 Ninth Ave. at 13th Street.
Information: +1-212-206-6700. Gansevoort Park Avenue also has an
outdoor rooftop pool that can be accessed with a similar package
for the same price. It’s located at 420 Park Avenue South.
Information: +1-212-317-2900;  http://www.hotelgansevoort.com/ .  Le Parker Meridien  Soon, maybe even this weekend,  Le Parker Meridien  on 56th
Street will reopen its outdoor deck near the already open indoor
pool, with lounge-side cocktail deliveries available.  A day pass to the facility is $100, on Saturdays and
Sundays too, so keep checking their website for details on deck-
opening day. Proximity to the Burger Joint is a plus.  Le Parker Meridien is at 119 W. 56th St. Information: +1-
212-245-5000;  http://www.parkermeridien.com/index1.php .  Soho House  Of course, you could also book a room in a hotel with a
pool like  Trump Soho ,  Thompson LES  or  The Empire .  Soho House in the Meatpacking district is a members-only
club with a small number of hotel rooms offered at $350 and up a
night.  The outdoor, rooftop pool has a beach feel. Extra-wide
lounge chairs are pushed together on one side to create the
largest communal couch we’ve ever seen. The dining area is
shaded by umbrellas, and two bars complete the scene. It’s a
very relaxed atmosphere where kind servers in striped dresses
cater to your needs.  Soho House New York is at 29-35 Ninth Ave. Information: +1-
212-627-9800;  http://www.sohohouseny.com/ .  City Pools  There are also 50 free outdoor  city pools  opening today. We
like the Lasker Pool in Central Park which is open from 11 to 7
daily with an hour off from 3 to 4 in the afternoon. Officially,
imbibing isn’t allowed in public, though stealth nipping might
go unnoticed.  Lasker Pool is at West 110th St. at Lenox Avenue.
Information: +1-212-534-7639;
 http://centralpark.org/index.php/attractions-h-w/lasker-pool -
rink/.  (Lili Rosboch and  Catherine Smith  write for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed
are their own.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lili Rosboch in New York 
 erosboch2@bloomberg.net .
Catherine Smith in New York 
 c.smith@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 