-- 
Yemen Militant Attack Leaves 15 Soldiers Dead, Witness Says

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-06-29T17:52:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/yemen-militant-attack-leaves-15-soldiers-dead-witness-says-1-.html
At least 15 Yemeni soldiers were
killed when armed men suspected of links to al-Qaeda attacked
them today in the southern city of Zinjibar, capital of Abyan
province, said Esam Mohammed, a witness.  The independent al-Masdar website later reported that the
military death toll had risen to 25 and that 28 militants also
were killed.  The militants attacked soldiers who were guarding a
stadium, Mohammed said by phone.  In a separate incident, the opposition al-Sahwa website
said five people were killed and 12 wounded when a military
aircraft bombed a passenger bus on the road between Abyan and
Aden.  Yemeni forces are also in conflict with anti-government
protesters who want President Ali Abdullah Saleh to step down.  Fighting with the supporters of tribal leader Sheikh Sadeq
al-Ahmar, leader of Hashid tribal confederation and a backer of
anti-Saleh protests, left 137 civilians and 118 members of the
security forces and the military dead from May 23 through June
6, Interior Minister Rashad al-Masri said today, according to
the state-run Saba news agency.  Al-Masri said 1,402 civilians and an equal number of
security forces personnel were injured in the battles in the
north of the capital, Sana’a. Al-Ahmar’s office had put the toll
of his fighters at 100 dead and 325 injured.  Defections  About 320 security and army personnel defected to the
opposition and announced their support for demonstrations
calling for Saleh’s ouster, according to an e-mailed statement
by the protest organizers today. A total of 150 of those who
defected late yesterday are from the Republican Guards, 130 are
from the Central Security Forces and 60 are from the police,
they said. Their photos were carried by local news
organizations.  Thousands protested today in cities including Sana’a, Taiz,
Ibb, al-Baidah, Mukalla to demand the establishment of a
transitional council to rule the country in the absence of
Saleh, who is being treated in  Saudi Arabia  for injuries
sustained during an attack on his compound on June 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a, Yemen, at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 