-- 
Yemen’s Saleh Agrees to Transition Talks With Opposition, Official Says

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-06-29T19:27:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-29/yemen-s-saleh-agrees-to-transition-talks-with-opposition-official-says.html
Yemen President Ali Abdullah Saleh
has authorized the start of transition talks with the nation’s
main opposition coalition, said Abu Bakr al-Qirbi, the  
minister of foreign affairs in the caretaker government.  Saleh, who is in  Saudi Arabia  recovering for wounds
suffered in an attack on the presidential compound, approved
talks based on the Gulf Cooperation Council plan and UN Security
Council statements, said al-Qirbi in a statement carried on
state TV.  That GCC plan, which the  United States  supports, calls for
Saleh to surrender power in exchange for immunity from
prosecution. Saleh has agreed to the plan three times in recent
months, refusing at the last minute each time to sign an accord.  Ruling party officials have been refusing any talks on
power transition awaiting the return of Saleh from Saudi Arabia.  The minister said that he met Saleh today in his hospital
in Saudi Arabia and discussed with him the situation in the
country and the political crisis.  He said the political talks will involve the main
opposition coalition known as Joint Meeting Parties, the
separatist Southern Movement and the Shiite Houthi rebels in
order “to formulate the new future of Yemen.”  Mohammed Qahtan, spokesman of the JMP, said that the
situation of the country does not allow for any more meetings
and negotiations.  “The first step should be transferring power to the vice
president and then, we can start talking about other issues,”
he said by phone. “There is no much time to waste in talks
before this step,” Mr Qahtan said by phone.  In a separate televised message, Health Minister Abdulkarim
Rasee said that he also met with Saleh and that he is in good
health. Saleh will address the nation soon and talk to the
people about about his health, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Terry Atlas at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net  