-- ‘Damsels’ Cope; ‘Hunter’ Misfires; ‘Reunion’ Stumbles: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-04-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/-damsels-cope-hunter-misfires-reunion-stumbles-movies.html
“You probably think we’re
frivolous, empty-headed, perfume-obsessed college coeds,” says
one such creature in “ Damsels in Distress ,” Whit Stillman’s
whimsical paean to youthful dreamers. “You’re probably right.”  Well, not empty-headed.  The film’s erudite young women navigating the sub-Ivy
campus of a fictional East Coast college are brimming with ideas
and brainy theories. Tap-dancing, they’re certain, prevents
suicide, and the perfect-smelling soap could change the world.  Stillman’s trio of arch 1990s comedies (“ Metropolitan ,”
“ Barcelona ,” “ The Last Days of Disco ”) celebrated a kind of
alternate universe populated by preternaturally witty, angst-
filled preppies. In his welcome return to moviemaking, he
doesn’t stray far from that rarified terrain. Only now he’s
letting women do most of the talking.  Greta Gerwig gives a breakthrough performance as Violet
Wister, the self-ordained (and self-invented) top girl of a
cliquish campus threesome. Adam Brody (“The O.C.”) is her
equally verbose love interest.  Neanderthals  Pretty, stylishly prissy and opinionated if not always
self-assured, Violet’s crew takes transfer student Lily
(Analeigh Tipton) under its wing, mentoring the newcomer on how
to survive the school’s “atmosphere of male barbarism.”  Writer/director Stillman has no interest in presenting an
over-educated “ Mean Girls ,” though. His damsels are full of
heart, however easily broken. Though they gag, literally, when a
group of loud, sweaty athletes rolls by, Violet and her pals
(Megalyn Echikunwoke, Carrie MacLemore) are the first to defend
lunkhead frat boys when the guys’ house is shut down.  Stillman’s quirks too often totter into twee territory --
there’s a full-blown musical number at the end -- and he zigzags
along a very thin line between absurdity and idiocy. One of the
girl’s boyfriends doesn’t know the names of colors because his
demanding parents had him skip a year of nursery school.  “We’re all flawed,” Violet deadpans after Lily chastises
her for something or other. “Must that render us mute to the
flaws of others?” Certainly not, when it’s done with panache.  “Damsels in Distress,” from  Sony Pictures Classics , is
playing in New York and  Los Angeles . Rating: *** (Evans)  ‘The Hunter’  A note in the credits of “ The Hunter ” informs us that
“traps and snares are illegal in Tasmania.”  That’s nice. You wouldn’t know it from the way the camera
caresses a steel trap, though. “The Hunter” is a movie for
nature lovers who enjoy seeing animals trapped, pieced and shot.  The story involves a professional hunter, Martin (Willem Dafoe), who’s employed by an evil corporation -- the only kind
in movies -- to bring back a Tasmanian tiger.  The last specimen of this stripe-backed, jackal-like
creature is thought to have died in captivity in 1936. But like
the spotted owl, it keeps getting sighted. (Some years ago,  Ted Turner  offered $100,000 to anybody who could prove one was
alive.)  Dafoe’s Martin is a sensitive hunter: he shoots, and then
he weeps over his prey. He is such a suffering actor that he
looks ready to cry before he spots the animal -- Dafoe seems to
be in anguish when he’s taking a warm bath.  Tiger Secrets  When he’s not out in the wilderness impaling furry things
and setting snares, he lodges on its edge with a pretty young
widow (Frances O’Connor), her motor mouth daughter and her mute
son. The boy, in the way of screenplays, knows the secrets of
the tiger and lets Martin in on them, little by little, with his
pictures.  More cliches: hippies and brutish, pool-playing loggers.  The movie is most pleasurable during its long stretches
without dialogue. The director, Daniel Nettheim, has put a lot
of his budget into handsome aerial shots of the Tasmanian bush.
Everything about the story rings phony (including the
corporation’s reason for wanting to get its paws on the tiger’s
DNA, which feels like the product of a last-minute story
conference). But the beauty of the wilderness is real.  “The Hunter,” a  Magnolia Pictures  release, is playing in
 New York , Washington and Austin, and in other cities over the
next month. Rating: *1/2 (Seligman)  ‘American Reunion’  Feeling nostalgic for a movie best remembered for its man-
on-pie love scene? “ American Reunion ” is your film.  Mixing the requisite (and rarely funny) sex jokes, nudity
(both genders) and a maudlin, self-referential sentimentality
for 1999’s hit teen comedy “ American Pie ,” the latest in a
string of sequels and offshoots, brings together the original
cast -- and more than a few of the original jokes.  The premise is a high school reunion (an oddly fancy affair
for a 13th anniversary), with the expected drunken hijinks and
sexual misunderstandings. Jason Biggs, as the former zhlub, gets
caught in the kitchen with his pants down again.  “American Reunion,” from  Universal Pictures , is playing
across the U.S. Rating: *1/2 (Evans)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 