-- ‘Evita’ Returns With Grand Sets, New Eva, Ricky Martin
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-04-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/-evita-returns-with-grand-sets-new-eva-ricky-martin.html
Rolling fog suffuses the slums and
palaces of  Argentina  in “Evita,” the second and far better
Andrew Lloyd Webber/Tim Rice revival to have opened on Broadway
in as many weeks.  Dating to 1979, and more sophisticated in its storytelling
and music than “Jesus Christ Superstar,” “Evita” begins with
the end: flickering newsreels depicting the state funeral of Eva
Peron, whose death at 33 in 1952 concluded a life devoted to
power, couture, saintly deeds and ransacking the public coffers.  All her garish shenanigans are eerily rendered in
chiaroscuro through the billowing clouds of mist and moody,
monumentalist settings in Michael Grandage’s fevered production.  At the center is Elena Roger, a petite Argentine soprano
who delivers a charismatic performance as the ambitious nobody
who box-springed her way up the power ladder, from the provinces
to the Casa Rosa in  Buenos Aires  as the wife of dictator Juan Peron.  In the first act’s terrific one-two punch, Eva and Juan
(the electrifying Michael Cerveris) sing “I’d Be Surprisingly
Good for You,” envisioning their plans as cold-bloodedly as the
Macbeths.  At the same time, she gives the boot to his current
mistress, who ends up on the street below singing “Another
Suitcase in Another Hall.” One of Lloyd Webber’s loveliest
melodies, it’s beautifully sung by Rachel Potter.  Rice and Lloyd Webber’s audacious idea was to drop Che
Guevara (Ricky Martin) into the action. The revolutionary hero
comments mostly from the sidelines as the Perons promise
redemption to the shirtless poor while stealing everything in
sight.  Close, No Cigar  Eschewing the character’s familiar military fatigues and
stogy, Martin plays Che (who never had anything to do with
Argentina) as a populist observer. He’s more the jaunty, glinty-
eyed critic than the embodiment of dashed hopes. In an open
shirt and suspendered slacks, his eyes crinkled and mustache a
bushy wonder, Martin exudes bonhomie.  That’s not enough to offset the comically shameless Perons,
especially given Rice’s compressed libretto. We’re left to
connect a lot of dots.  In her Broadway debut, Roger has plenty of the star quality
Evita sings about. I worry how long her voice, a little brittle
at the top, will hold up, even on a limited performance
schedule.  Michael Cerveris  Along with a magnificent sound, Cerveris’s bottomless eyes
make up for what’s shortchanged in Peron’s barely sketched
character. Max Von Essen plays Eva’s first stepping stone, a
provincial entertainer, with just the right dash of pomposity.  Grandage and choreographer Rob Ashford offer two hours of
swirling motion with crowds clamoring for human rights and
dancers turning tangos into erotic tableaux. It all subtly
underpins a score that occasionally swells into grandiosity,  Christopher Oram’s sets take us to grand plazas and to the
living quarters of the presidential palace. His costumes range
from rough tatters to Evita’s voluminous white-sequined gown,
altogether offering knockout visuals.  With his trinity of mesmerizing public figures (the Opera
Phantom, Jesus and Eva Peron) on Broadway, Lloyd Webber himself
returns to star status. The other names attached to these shows
may not even matter.  At the Marquis Theatre, 1535 Broadway at West 46th Street.
Information: +1-800-745-3000;  http://www.evitaonbroadway.com .
Rating: ***  ‘4000 Miles’  Lincoln Center Theater  has moved Amy Herzog’s acutely
observed “4000 Miles” into the Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater. The
production and its wonderful cast have only deepened in the
transition.  Click here for my original review. Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 