-- Taiwan’s Bonds Decline on Inflation Concern; Currency Weakens
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-04-06T09:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/taiwan-s-bonds-decline-on-inflation-concern-currency-weakens.html
Taiwan’s government bonds dropped
this week, with  benchmark  five-year yields reaching a four-month
high, on concern inflation may quicken. The island’s dollar
weakened.  The  consumer-price index  rose 1.21 percent in March from a
year earlier, after a revised 0.25 percent increase the previous
month, official data released yesterday showed. That’s less than
the 1.32 percent estimated by analysts in a Bloomberg News
survey. The central bank held the  benchmark   interest rate  at
1.875 percent on March 22, and said inflation will be a bigger
issue than maintaining economic growth this year.  “Inflation is still a concern even though the consumer
price index came in lower than expected,” said Eric Hsing, a
fixed-income trader at First Securities Inc. in Taipei.  The yield on the government’s 1 percent bonds due January
2017 rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, this
week to 1.03 percent after reaching a four-month high of 1.04
percent yesterday, according to Gretai Securities Market. The
rate decreased one basis point today.  Taiwan ’s dollar declined 0.2 percent to NT$29.562 today
against its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The
currency lost 0.1 percent this week. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings that traders use
to price options, was steady at 3.90 percent today and was down
10 basis points this week.  The island’s benchmark stock index has lost 4.1 percent
since March 28, the day before Taiwan’s Economic Daily reported
that the government was considering a capital-gains tax on stock
trades. Overseas investors without offices and direct business
operations in Taiwan will be exempt “in principle” from the
tax, Finance Minister Christina Liu said yesterday.  The overnight  money-market  rate fell one basis point to
0.443 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
Taiwan Interbank Money Center. It was 0.416 percent at the end
of last week.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  