-- Taiwan’s China Development Offers Up to $1.9 Billion for KGI
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-04-06T08:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/taiwan-s-china-development-offers-up-to-1-9-billion-for-kgi.html
China Development Financial Holding
Co. (2883) ,  Taiwan ’s largest venture capital company, bid as much as
NT$54.6 billion ($1.9 billion) for  KGI Securities Co. (6008)  targeting
the island’s No. 2 brokerage to boost its presence in  China .  China Development offered NT$5.5 in cash and 1.2 of its own
shares for each share of KGI, valuing the deal at NT$16.71 per
share, the Taipei-based  company  said in an exchange filing
yesterday after the market closed. That’s 47 percent higher than
KGI’s closing price of NT$11.40 in Taipei yesterday.  Taiwan’s 10th-largest publicly traded financial company by
market value said it will use a merger with its own brokerage,
Grand Cathay Securities Corp., to push into China where it plans
to set up yuan-denominated private equity funds and expand its
securities business. Declines in technology company investments
have dragged China Development to two straight quarterly losses
and a 33 percent share price  drop  last year.  “Their aim is for the merger to help them expand in the
China market, yet it won’t help their share trading business in
a meaningful way,” said Eric Chang, an analyst at Jih Sun
Securities Co. in Taipei. “It could help their private equity
and underwriting businesses in China.”  Open Market Purchase  KGI climbed 6.6 percent, its daily limit, to close at
NT$12.15 in Taipei today. That’s the stock’s biggest jump since
Jan. 30. China Development  advanced  4.7 percent to NT$8.74.  China Development plans to buy 50.1 percent to 100 percent
of the Taipei-based securities broker in the open market and
will issue as many as 3.9 billion new shares as part of the
transaction, it said today.  KGI had 7.7 percent of Taiwan market trading in February,
trailing  Yuanta Financial Holding Co. (2885) , according to data posted
on the Taiwan Stock Exchange  website . The company had 3,143
employees at the end of December and has acquired five brokers
in the past ten years, according to a company  report .  KGI was Taiwan’s fourth-largest underwriter last year, with
101 deals valued at $3.3 billion, while Grand Cathay ranked
eighth, handling 108 transactions for $2.6 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  KGI’s net income last year dropped 36 percent to NT$1.98
billion after brokerage commissions, which account for 61
percent of revenue, declined 14 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Market Share Boost  Combining KGI with Grand Cathay will lift China
Development’s share of the Taiwan brokerage market from 1.63
percent to 9.5 percent, it said in a statement on its  Website .
Its banking unit, China Development Industrial Bank, has a 30
percent share of Taiwan’s private equity and venture capital
market, it said.  China Development “is working with local governments and
major institutional investors in Mainland China to set up yuan
private equity funds as well as leasing businesses,” it said in
the statement. Eddy Chang, spokesman for China Development, and
Sheng Chia-chen of KGI, didn’t return calls seeking comment.  “The purchase of KGI would help China Development reduce
its reliance on stock investments to drive profits,” said Tina Chen, an analyst at  President Securities Corp. (2855)  in Taipei.  China Development, which holds stakes in more than 300
companies, posted losses in the third and fourth quarters of
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Our investments were overly exposed Taiwan’s technology
industry,” it said in a Feb. 15  presentation  explaining the
losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gunsalus at 
 jgunsalus@bloomberg.net . 