-- Apple Asks Appeals Court to Halt Samsung Tablet, Phone Sales
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-04-06T17:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/apple-asks-appeals-court-to-halt-samsung-tablet-phone-sales.html
Apple Inc., (AAPL)  maker of the iPhone and
iPad, asked a U.S. appeals court to block sales of some products
made by Samsung Electronics Co. that it contends “slavishly
copy” the two devices.  “Apple is widely regarded as an innovator of beautiful
designs,” Apple lawyer Michael Jacobs of Morrison & Foerster
told a three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit in  Washington  today. “What we’re asking Samsung
to do is stop copying. There are other beautiful designs out
there.”  Apple is challenging a trial judge’s December decision
allowing some of Samsung’s Galaxy tablets and phones to remain
on the market while a patent-infringement case is pending. The
Cupertino, California-based smartphone maker contends Samsung
has copied the look and feel of the iPhone and iPad to lure away
customers. A trial is scheduled to begin July 30 in  San
Francisco .  “There is no clear error that would warrant reversing the
judge’s decision, especially since we’re on a July trial
schedule,” said Samsung lawyer Kathleen Sullivan of Quinn
Emanuel.  Jacobs said that it would be months before the judge in the
case would rule on post-trial motions, so the request to halt
sales quickly is still important.  Apple, Sullivan said, was trying to get a monopoly on
rectangular tablets with flat screens and rounded corners.  “There was no evidence that consumers were basing their
decision to buy a Samsung product or drop an Apple product
because of design features,” Sullivan said. “Our phones are
very different if you strip out their over-broad claims.”  Biggest Battle  The Samsung dispute is the biggest front in Apple’s efforts
to curtail the growth of phones that run on Google Inc.’s
Android operating system, the most popular platform for mobile
devices. Apple contends Android devices have copied features
that make the iPhone and iPad unique, and it’s also filed
patent-infringement suits against Android-phone makers  HTC Corp. (2498) 
and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  The case argued today is one of more than 30 filed in 10
countries between Samsung and Apple. Samsung was forced to delay
the release of some Galaxy devices or alter the product in
 Germany , the Netherlands and  Australia  because of the legal
battle.  Car Example  The three judges questioned both sides on the proper
standard for patent owners to block products where only one
feature is infringing a patent. Circuit Judge Timothy Bryson
asked whether Ford Motor Co. would be able to halt sales of
Chrysler Corp. cars that copied a cup-holder design.  “People may have been flocking to Chrysler and leaving
Ford because they have neat ads or a great engine,” Bryson
said.  Jacobs said consumers buy phones for a number of reasons
and there is evidence Samsung changed its designs in reaction to
the popularity of the Apple products.  “Consumers make purchases because of the elegance of the
user interface, and this is an element of the user interface,”
he said. To force a patent owner to prove that a design or
feature alone drove sales “would set the bar too high” and
limit the ability of a patent to exclude competition.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh on Dec. 2 denied Apple’s
request to halt sales of the Galaxy S 4G, Infuse 4G and Droid
Charge phones and the Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer made by
Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung.  Koh said that while Apple had a good chance of winning the
case on some of its claims, it wouldn’t suffer irreparable harm
if Samsung were to remain on the market.  ‘Direct Competitors’  “Although Apple and Samsung are direct competitors in the
market for new smartphone purchases, Apple has not provided
sufficient evidence to establish more than a mere possibility of
future harm,” the judge said.  Apple introduced the iPhone in June 2007 and the iPad in
April 2010. It claims that Samsung’s Galaxy products “blatantly
imitate the appearance of Apple’s products to capitalize on
Apple’s success.” Samsung began selling the Galaxy products
that are the subject of the hearing in February 2011.  Apple claimed that Galaxy S and Infuse phones copied two of
its patented designs, that the Galaxy Tab copied a design
protected by a fourth patent, and that all three products, along
with the Droid Charge, infringed a patent for a function known
as “bounce back.” That feature means that when an image is
dragged past the final screen’s edge, it goes back to fill the
entire screen.  ‘Close Question’  Koh said it was a “close question” as to whether the
phones infringe the two design patents and said Samsung had
raised a “substantial question” of invalidity of Apple’s
tablet patent. Samsung argued the tablet design was an obvious
variation of tablets that existed as early as 1994, including
one made by  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   As for the bounce-back patent, the judge said it would be
unfair to block the Samsung products based on a single function
of the device.  Apple and Samsung vie for the title of world’s largest
maker of smartphones. Apple had 23.9 percent of the global
market in the fourth quarter, while Samsung was No. 2 with 23.5
percent, according to data from Boston-based researcher  Strategy
Analytics .  In the tablet market, Apple had 58 percent of the market in
the fourth quarter, while Android products, which also include
Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle Fire and  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) ’s Nook
readers, had 39 percent, the analyst group said.  The case is Apple Inc. v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , 12-1105,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The
lower court case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.,
11-1846, U.S. District Court for the District of California ( San
Jose )  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  