-- Asian Currencies Drop This Week as Spain Reignites Debt Concerns
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-04-06T08:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/asian-currencies-drop-this-week-as-spain-reignites-debt-concerns.html
Asian currencies declined this week,
led by the Thai baht and India’s rupee, as rising borrowing
costs in Spain renewed concern over  Europe ’s debt crisis and
after the  Federal Reserve  ruled out further monetary easing.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index (ADXY) , which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, slipped
0.2 percent, the fifth weekly drop this year. Yields on Spain’s
10-year  bonds  rose to 5.76 percent yesterday, the highest level
since December, on prospects the country will need European aid
after signaling difficulty in reining in its budget deficit.  “Preference for riskier assets weakened as expectations
for stimulus policies retreated, and also because economic
figures out of Europe this week were negative,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a Seoul-based currency analyst at Samsung Futures Inc.  The baht fell 0.5 percent to 31.01 per dollar and  India ’s
rupee lost 0.4 percent to 51.105, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Both markets are shut today for holidays, along with
 Indonesia , the Philippines and  Singapore . India was also closed
yesterday. The yuan declined 0.1 percent to 6.3063 in Shanghai,
according to the  China  Foreign Exchange Trade System.  “It’s hard to see a trend given that most markets are
closed,” said Azmi Shukri Rahman, a foreign-exchange trader at
CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “Most people are
adjusting their positions ahead of the weekend before the
release of U.S. non-farm payrolls data.”  Trade Figures  Minutes from the Fed’s last policy meeting released on
April 3 signaled the central bank won’t approve additional
stimulus measures unless economic growth shows signs of losing
momentum or consumer prices dip below 2 percent. The Labor
Department may report today that U.S. companies hired 205,000
workers in March, holding above the 200,000 mark for a fourth
month, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Other data this week showed retail sales in the European
Union contracted in February, while factory orders in Germany
rose by a fifth of the pace economists had predicted. Spanish
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said on April 4 that the euro
region’s fourth-largest economy is in “extreme difficulty.”  Malaysia’s ringgit dropped 0.2 percent for the week to
3.0643 per dollar. The currency rose 0.2 percent today ahead of
data on April 10 that may show exports increased 8 percent in
February, the most since November, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed.  “I expect the coming months’ trade numbers to show some
improvement after the holiday effects in January,” said Yeah Kim Leng, chief economist at RAM Holdings Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur .  Taiwan, China and the Philippines are due to report export
figures next week, while Bank of Korea and Indonesian policy
makers meet to set  interest rates .  Elsewhere this week, Taiwan’s dollar lost 0.1 percent to
NT$29.562 against its U.S. counterpart and Indonesia’s rupiah
declined 0.1 percent to 9,171. The  Philippine peso  advanced 0.3
percent to 42.798 and South Korea’s won strengthened 0.1 percent
to 1,131.80.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  