-- Asian Stocks Fall Most This Year as Europe Stokes Concern
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-04-06T23:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/asian-stocks-fall-most-this-year-as-europe-stokes-concern.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the regional
benchmark index capping its biggest weekly loss this year, after
the Federal Reserve damped expectations for more monetary easing
and on renewed concern Europe’s debt crisis will weigh on
economic growth, damping the outlook for Asian exporters.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , a carmaker that gets 83 percent of its
revenue abroad, dropped 4.3 percent in Tokyo.  Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd. (13)  and other companies that do business in Europe slid after
demand fell at a Spanish government bond auction.  Fast Retailing
Co. (9983) , Asia’s top clothier, plunged 6.8 percent in Tokyo after
sales at its Uniqlo stores disappointed investors.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 1.3 percent to 124.91 this
week, the most since the period ended Dec. 16. The measure has
gained 9.7 percent this year amid signs the U.S. economy is
recovering. Gains slowed after China last month cut its target
for economic growth, seeking to cool its property market and
become less reliant on exports.  “You can’t stay confident about the U.S. economy without
policy support,” said Kazuyuki Terao, chief investment officer
of RCM Japan Co. “Europe’s economy faces a downside risk, and
it remains to be seen whether it will spread across the world.”  Trading volume across Asia fell during market holidays.
Japan and South Korea were the only major markets open all week.
The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  plunged 3.9 percent this week, the
biggest weekly loss since the period ended Aug. 5, as the yen
strengthened, dimming the earnings prospects for Japanese
exporters. South Korea’s Kospi Index added 0.7 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index added 0.2 percent on the week.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 0.4 percent, while
Singapore’s  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  dropped 0.8 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index advanced 1.9 percent on
speculation China will ease monetary policy further to spur
growth.  Fed Holding Off  Asian stocks fell after the Federal Reserve’s meeting
minutes revealed on April 3 showed it’s holding off on
increasing monetary accommodation.  “The perception is that you’re taking away the safety net
of excess liquidity that lifted asset prices and at the same
time the prospects for growth that beat expectations aren’t that
good,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion at
Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “Under that scenario and
given the exceptionally good run we’ve had year-to-date, people
are reassessing their risk-reward scenarios.”  Exporters and resources companies fell after the release of
the Fed notes, with Honda slipping 4.3 percent to 3,010 yen.
 Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s No. 1 exporter of consumer electronics, lost
4.1 percent to 1,634 yen.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest
mining company, lost 0.5 percent to A$34.44 in Sydney.  Rio Tinto
Group (RIO)  fell 0.2 percent to A$65.29.  ‘Significant Recession’  Stocks also fell after sluggish demand at Spain’s debt sale
and slowing German factory output fueled concern Europe’s debt
crisis is spreading and the economy is contracting. European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi said the region’s economic
outlook is “subject to downside risks.”  “Investors realize those economies are heading into a
significant recession,” said  Andrew Pease , Sydney-based chief
investment strategist for the Asia-Pacific region at Russell
Investment Group, which manages about $150 billion. “Gains from
here are going to be hard work.”  Companies that rely on  Europe  slid. Hutchison Whampoa lost
1.9 percent to HK$76.10. Nissan Motor Co., a carmaker that gets
15 percent of its revenue from Europe, lost 2.8 percent to 856
yen.  Fast Retailing plunged 6.8 percent to 17,570 yen, its
biggest weekly loss since November. Revenue at its Uniqlo stores
in Japan failed to recover from last year’s March 11 earthquake,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG. The clothier’s same-store
sales rose 5.1 percent after falling more than 10 percent in the
year-earlier period.  China Policy  Losses were limited on speculation China may relax policy.
The country is “almost guaranteed” to either cut interest
rates or reserve requirement ratios in April, Dariusz Kowalczyk,
a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole, said in a
Bloomberg television interview on April 4. The strategist cited
comments made by Premier Wen Jiabao the day before that he plans
to soon unveil fine-tuning measures.  Mainland developers gained in Hong Kong. China Overseas
Land & Investment Ltd. advanced 8.1 percent to HK$15.96.  Agile
Property Holding Ltd. (3383)  jumped 10.2 percent to HK$9.87.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  