-- Bernanke Warning on Jobs Vindicated by March Payrolls Report
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s ,   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-04-06T17:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/bernanke-warning-on-jobs-vindicated-by-march-payrolls-report.html
Ben S. Bernanke  warned last month
that payroll gains might slow as companies adjust their labor
needs for a period of moderate growth. Today’s Labor Department
report may have proved the Federal Reserve chairman right.  Employers in the U.S. added 120,000 jobs in March, the
fewest in five months. The unemployment rate fell to 8.2 percent
from 8.3 percent the month before as people stopped looking for
work. The March report followed the best six-month streak of job
growth since 2006.  “Chairman Bernanke should be putting out the world’s
biggest ‘I told you so,’” said  Phillip Swagel , an economist at
the University of  Maryland  and former assistant Treasury
secretary in  George W. Bush ’s administration. “It must give the
Fed some comfort that they continue to have this accommodative
stance.”  Today’s report probably won’t trigger a decision to buy
more assets when Fed policy makers next meet April 24-25, nor
will it alter their commitment to keep the benchmark lending
rate around zero until late 2014, said  John Silvia , chief
economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte,  North
Carolina .  At the same time, he said, disappointing labor reports in
April and May could help build a case for further easing at the
June meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee , headed by
Bernanke.  “When you look at employment per se, it’s not up to the
level he wants to see,” Silvia said. “It’s very difficult for
the Fed to say 8.2 percent, that’s good enough.”  Yellen, Dudley  More insight into the Fed’s response to the data will come
next week when policy makers discuss the economic outlook. Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  will speak in  New York  on April 11, and
William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York, will speak in Syracuse the next day. Bernanke is scheduled
to discuss financial stability on April 9.  In a speech on March 26, Bernanke said recent strong job
gains may be a “reversal of the unusually large layoffs that
occurred during late 2008 and over 2009.” If that is the case,
he said, then “significant improvements in the  unemployment
rate  will likely require a more-rapid expansion of production
and demand from consumers and businesses, a process that can be
supported by continued accommodative policies.”  Today’s jobs report showed scant improvement in some of the
trends that the Fed chairman said he finds most worrisome. The
share of the unemployed who have been out of work for 27 weeks
or more was little changed at 42.5 percent in March. Average
weekly earnings fell, and the average work week decreased to
34.5 hours from 34.6.  Worker Skills  Last month, and in several speeches and testimony before
that, the Great Depression scholar has made it clear that long-
term unemployment threatens to erode workers’ skills and
eventually detach them from the  labor force , ultimately reducing
how fast the  U.S. economy  can grow. Bernanke has never embraced
that as an acceptable outcome, or one that the Fed can do
nothing about. He also hasn’t taken the view that long-term
unemployment is fully explained by a mismatch of worker skills
with employers’ needs.  “What will lead to more hiring and, consequently, further
declines in unemployment?” Bernanke said in last month’s speech
to the National Association for Business Economics. “The short 
answer is more-rapid economic growth.”  The U.S. economy expanded at a 3 percent annual rate in the
final three months of 2011, helping boost job growth to an
average monthly gain of 246,000 from December through February.
Growth may slow to 2 percent in the first quarter, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Manufacturing Cools  Manufacturing, a mainstay of the recovery, has cooled in
recent months. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory
index was 53.4 in March, down from a high of 59.9 at the
beginning of last year. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  “Overall, we ought to focus our attention on the fact that
we’ve got to keep the growth rate of the economy at a sufficient
level that it generates jobs,” said  Austan Goolsbee , former
chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers and an
economist at the University of Chicago’s Booth School of
Business. That probably means the economy has to grow faster
than 2 percent, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at
   lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  