-- Bingu wa Mutharika, Malawi Leader Behind Crackdown, Dies
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n k   J o m o
-- 2012-04-06T23:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/bingu-wa-mutharika-malawi-leader-behind-crackdown-dies-1-.html
Malawi’s president, Bingu wa
Mutharika, who sparked a political and economic crisis with a
crackdown on opponents demanding an end to fuel and foreign-
currency shortages, died yesterday of a heart attack, the
 Associated Press  said, citing doctors treating him. He was 78.  Vice President Joyce Banda said earlier today that
Mutharika was flown to a Johannesburg hospital yesterday. The
late president’s spokesman, Hetherwick Ntaba, declined today to
comment on reports of his death.  A former World Bank economist, Mutharika was elected
president in 2004 and won plaudits at home and abroad for ending
years of intermittent food shortages. During his first five
years in office, the economy of the southern African nation, the
world’s biggest producer of burley tobacco, used principally for
cigarettes, grew an average 6.6 percent annually. Mutharika won
66 percent of the vote and a second five-year term in 2009.  His reputation soured in July 2011, when his security
forces killed 19 people protesting fuel shortages and rising
food costs. The U.S. and U.K. suspended aid to Malawi, which
relies on donor funds to finance as much as 40 percent of its
budget.  The government was forced to rein in spending, while the
central bank devalued Malawi’s kwacha by 10 percent in August to
address the foreign-exchange shortages. The economy depends on
tobacco, tea and sugar for export income.  Mutharika refused to bow to demands from good-governance
groups to step down or call a referendum on his popularity,
saying on March 22 that he was ready to fight those who
challenged his authority. Opposition to his rule continued until
he fell ill.  ‘I Will Not Step Down’  “I will continue to run this country until 2014,”
Mutharika said at the time. “I will not step down because the
constitution of this country mandates me to run for a full five-
year term.”  The U.S. and  Kenya  expressed condolences today, according
to e-mailed statements. The U.S. also said it’s concerned about
the delay in transferring power to Vice President Banda, who
called for constitutional order in comments broadcast on Zodiak,
a Lilongwe-based private television station.  Banda was dismissed from the ruling  Democratic Progressive
Party  in 2010 for allegedly undermining power within the party,
London-based Control Risks said on its website today.  “The ruling party will use the coming days to regroup and
explore ways in which to ensure that the president’s brother
assumes the presidency,” according to Control Risks, which said
the DPP may push for early elections. Peter Mutharika was
nominated by the DPP to run in a 2014 election, the risk
analysis group said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  