-- BlackRock Leads ETF Boom to Global Junk Rally: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-04-06T02:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/blackrock-leads-etf-boom-to-global-junk-rally-credit-markets.html
The $28.4 billion  Blackrock Inc (BLK) .-led
industry of exchange-traded funds that buy U.S.  junk bonds  is
expanding into global speculative-grade debt as the notes
outperform dollar-denominated securities by the most since 2009.  BlackRock, the world’s biggest money manager, opened the
first ETFs on April 3 that will invest in junk bonds from Europe
to  Asia  after its iShares iBoxx High Yield Corporate Bond Fund
in the U.S. grew to more than $14 billion in less than five
years. Van Eck Global, the investment firm founded in 1955,
opened its International High Yield Bond ETF the same day.  Fund managers are broadening their investments beyond  U.S.
debt  with yields on junk bonds outside the country almost double
the average of the past 10 years. Investors poured a record
$31.1 billion into speculative-grade debt in the 14 weeks ended
April 2, according to EPFR Global data, and a three-month rally
in dollar-denominated junk securities is now losing steam.  “There are many fixed-income managers today who are really
reaching out to international and global issuers,” Darek Wojnar, head of product development and management for
BlackRock’s iShares, said in a telephone interview. “That’s one
of the ways to diversify sources of yield.”  High-yield bonds sold outside the U.S. returned 10.4
percent in the first quarter, compared with a 5.1 percent gain
for junk notes in dollars, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. That’s the biggest three-month outperformance
since the period ended July 31, 2009, the data show.  Seek to Replicate  BlackRock’s  IShares Global ex-USD High Yield Corporate Bond
Fund  and  IShares Emerging Markets High Yield Bond Fund (EMHY)  seek to
invest in bonds that replicate  indexes  composed of debt from
both developed and emerging countries outside the U.S. The U.S.
junk-bond market is about five times the size of the comparable
market in Europe, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “It is not easy to create a diversified portfolio of
European high-yield names,” said Jason Rosiak, head of
 portfolio management  at  Pacific Asset Management , the Newport
Beach, California affiliate of Pacific Life Insurance Co., in an
e-mail. The new ETFs “would create a more liquid vehicle for
total return or high-yield investors to gain international
exposure.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark gauge of U.S.
company debt risk jumped by the most in almost four months amid
investor concern that  Spain  may need international aid,
deepening Europe’s fiscal crisis. Burger chain  Wendy’s Co. (WEN)  set
the  interest rate  it will pay on a $1.125 billion loan to
refinance debt. Bon-Ton Stores Inc.’s debentures fell the most
in almost three months as the retailer said its March same-store
sales dropped, missing analyst estimates.  Credit Swaps  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, climbed 4.4 basis points to a mid-price of 97
basis points as of 5:13 p.m. in  New York , according to Markit
Group Ltd. That’s the biggest daily increase since Dec. 8, when
the measure surged 6 basis points.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings rose 2.4 to 132.2. The Markit
iTraxx Japan index was little changed at 159.5 basis points as
of 9:05 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Deutsche Bank AG. The gauge
closed yesterday at 158.9, the highest level since March 23,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Deteriorating Confidence  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Markets in  Australia ,  Hong Kong  and  Singapore  are closed
today for a public holiday.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, rose 0.88 basis point to 29.19 basis points,
the highest level since Feb. 27. The gauge, which has climbed
from an almost eight-month low on March 28, widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
the world’s largest maker of jet engines, were the most actively
traded U.S. corporate securities by dealers yesterday, with 123
trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Bon-Ton Bonds  Bon-Ton’s $480 million of 10.25 percent notes due March
2014 fell 2.25 cents to 85.75 cents on the dollar to yield 19.4
percent, Trace data show. That’s the biggest drop since Jan. 13.  Comparable-store sales for the five weeks ended March 31
fell 0.1 percent to $254.1 million, compared with $254.5 million
in the same period last year, York, Pennsylvania-based Bon-Ton
said yesterday in a statement. The figure came in below the 1.7
percent average projection from analysts surveyed by researcher
Retail Metrics Inc.  The  Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index 
fell for the first time in four days to a more than three-week
low, declining 0.05 cent to 93.6 cents on the dollar. The
measure, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-
lien leveraged loans, has returned 4.3 percent this year.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  Wendy’s Loan  Wendy’s, the second-largest U.S. hamburger chain, is
seeking its term loan B to refinance debt, according to a person
with knowledge of the transaction. The Dublin, Ohio-based fast
food company’s debt, due in seven years, will pay 3.5 percentage
points to 3.75 percentage points more than the London interbank
offered rate, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the terms are private.  Libor, a rate banks say they can borrow in dollars from
each other that acts as a benchmark for about $360 trillion of
financial instruments worldwide, will have a 1.25 percent floor.
Wendy’s is proposing to sell the loan at 99 cents on the dollar,
the person said, reducing proceeds for the company and boosting
the yield to investors.  In  emerging markets , relative yields rose for a second day,
climbing 5 basis points to 346 basis points, or 3.46 percentage
points, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index .
The guage has averaged 376 basis points this year.  With the  Federal Reserve  saying economic conditions will
probably warrant interest rates remaining near zero through at
least 2014, ETFs are gaining in popularity with individuals
seeking higher-yielding investments. European speculative-grade
debt is yielding an average of 8.4 percent, versus a 7.3 percent
yield on comparable debt in the U.S., Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show.  ETF Scrutiny  “There’s a growing universe of high-yield debt globally,”
said Francis Rodilosso, an investment manager at Van Eck
Associates Corp. “With the advances of the ETFs and more people
getting exposure to high-yield debt, it made sense to create an
alternative way for people to seek higher-yielding assets.”  ETFs, which drew congressional scrutiny last year as more
complex and riskier versions emerged, allow individual investors
to speculate on debt ranked below investment grade without
owning the bonds. Unlike mutual funds, which have shares that
are priced once a day, ETFs are listed on exchanges and bought
and sold like stocks.  Market Vectors’s International High Yield Bond Fund ETF
will track an index of speculative-grade debt sold by companies
throughout the world, including emerging markets, according to a
prospectus filed on March 29.  Fund Inflows  High-yield bond ETFs recorded $6.9 billion of U.S. inflows
during the first three months, compared with $1.9 billion of
inflows in the comparable period in 2011, according to data
compiled by London-based ETF Global Insight. Global inflows have
totaled $7.9 billion so far this year, the data show.  Yields on U.S. high-yield bonds are within 0.5 percentage
point of the record low of 7.19 percent reached in May 2011,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. The debt has lost
0.1 percent since the end of February amid concern that  Europe ’s
debt crisis may be escalating.  BlackRock’s global junk-bond ETF aims to invest at least 40
percent of its assets in companies located or doing business
outside the U.S., according to a prospectus filed on March 29.  The fund which won’t try to beat the index it tracks or
position itself defensively when markets decline or appear
overvalued, will charge a management fee of 0.55 percent and be
overseen by James Mauro and Scott Radell, the document said.  More Volatile  While passive management “may eliminate the chance that
the fund will substantially outperform the underlying index,”
it “may reduce some risks of active management, such as poor
security selection,” according to the prospectus.  “The passive approach is what many of our clients seek,”
Wojnar said. “We always start by asking, what is the client’s
problem that we’re trying to solve.”  Investors in ETFs are often seeking the ability to sell
quickly, making them more volatile compared with traditional
buyers of corporate debt, such as pension plans and insurance
companies, Rosiak said.  The key to the new funds’ success “will be portfolio
diversification and construction in a market that has
historically has less liquidity than the domestic arena,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shannon D. Harrington at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net  