-- BTA Has Access to $271 Million in Central Bank Funding
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-04-06T08:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/bta-has-access-to-271-million-in-central-bank-funding-correct-.html
BTA Bank (BTAS)  has access to about 40
billion tenge ($271 million) of funding via repurchase
transactions with the central bank as inflows of corporate and
household deposits resumed, said BTA Chairman Anvar Saidenov.  BTA, the Kazakh lender that’s seeking to restructure its
debt for a second time in as many years, drew down “a lot” on
a 500 billion-tenge repo line with the central bank in January,
Saidenov told reporters in Almaty today. It has maintained
access to between 43 billion tenge and 47 billion tenge of
funding in February and March, he said.  BTA failed to make an interest payment on its July 2018
dollar bonds in January. The country’s biggest bank before its
default on $12 billion of debt in 2009 is seeking an agreement
with creditors on its second restructuring by September,
according to a March 22 presentation published on its website.  Kazakh sovereign-wealth fund Samruk-Kazyna took over BTA in
February 2009. The government holds an 81.5 percent stake in the
bank, which won 92 percent creditor approval for a restructuring
plan in May 2010.  The lender repays the central bank when it accumulates
sufficient liquidity, Saidenov said. It saw increased inflows of
deposits from individuals and companies in March compared with
February, he said.  ‘More Optimistic’  BTA’s medium-term prospects are “more optimistic” with an
April 11 shareholder meeting set to elect board members and a
new chief executive officer, Samruk-Kazyna’s head,  Umirzak Shukeyev , said today, adding that the wealth fund is “going to
support the bank.”  Samruk-Kazyna held 300 billion tenge in deposits with BTA,
Saidenov said. Total deposits shrank to 630 billion tenge in
January from 736 billion tenge in December, according to the
Kazakh central bank’s financial oversight committee.  In February, BTA Bank said a group of investors were
appointed to represent its creditors for a debt restructuring.
Members of the steering committee include Ashmore Investment
Management Ltd.,  Asian Development Bank , D.E. Shaw Oculus
International, Inc. withD.E. Shaw Laminar International, Inc.,
BNP Paribas SA’s FFTW U.K. Ltd., Gramercy Funds Management LLC,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , VR Capital Group
Ltd., the  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  and Swedish Export Credits
Guarantee Board - EKN, the bank said April 4.  ‘Illusory’ Prospects  If creditors holding BTA’s recovery notes speed up
payments, the bank’s prospects for restructuring its debt become
“illusory” because their amount reflected on the balance sheet
will rise to $5.2 billion, Saidenov said.  BTA creditors received 10-year recovery notes as part of a
restructuring accord in 2010, under which they’ll get 50 percent
of anything the lender recovers from impaired assets, including
any award in a lawsuit against the bank’s previous management.  The value of recovery units under international financial
reporting standards was estimated at a preliminary $628 million
as of Jan. 1, the bank said by e-mail today.  “If auditors consider that the IFRS value of recovery
units should be $5.2 billion, the Tier 1 capital shortfall would
then be further negatively impacted,” BTA said last month in
presentation to creditors.  BTA’s capital shortfall may reach about $6 billion by the
end of 2012, according to its presentation. The bank in January
predicted the gap would reach $5.1 billion by the end of the
year.  Halyk Savings Bank (HSBK)  Chief Executive Officer Umut Shayakhmetova on April 3 called the government to abandon BTA’s
restructuring and forbid the lender from attracting deposits.
“A horrible end is better than horror without end,”
Shayakhmetova said.  The emphasis on developing a “sustainable business model”
for BTA during its debt restructuring talks “gives some chance
to save the bank and it would be shortsighted to halt the
process now,”  Yelena Bakhmutova , a deputy chief executive
officer at the fund, said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  