-- Bulgarian Cabinet Faces No-Confidence Vote Over Atomic Plant
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-04-06T11:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/bulgarian-cabinet-faces-no-confidence-vote-over-atomic-plant-1-.html
Bulgarian Prime Minister Boiko Borissov’s minority government will face its fourth no-
confidence vote in parliament next week after canceling a
project to build a nuclear plant with  Russia ’s Rosatom Corp.  The Bulgarian Socialist Party and the nationalist Attack
Party introduced the motion to the legislature today, Sergei Stanishev, ex-premier and leader of the opposition Socialists,
told reporters in Sofia.  The European Union’s poorest country in terms of output per
capita gets most of its oil and natural gas from Russia and
wants to diversify its energy sources. It canceled on March 28 a
project to build a 2,000-megawatt nuclear power plant at Belene,
about 250 kilometers (155 miles) north of Sofia, with Russia’s
state nuclear company after failing since 2005 to agree on its
cost and find Western investors.  “The government stopped Bulgaria’s biggest industrial
project in two decades,” Stanishev said. “This decision is
fatal for  Bulgaria . It puts at risk the existence of Bulgria’s
nuclear energy industry and will lead to much higher electricity
prices.”  The Fukushima accident after a March 2011 earthquake in
 Japan  raised costs for improved safety measures and risk
insurance on the Bulgarian project by an extra $2.1 billion,
according to a report by the Balkans and Black Sea Studies
Center in Sofia, which also was in favor of canceling the
project.  Confidence Votes  Borissov survived three no-confidence votes since he took
office in July 2009. The last one was held in July 2011 after
the country failed to win EU approval to join the passport-free
Schengen zone.  Passage of the no-confidence motion requires a simple
majority in the 240-member parliament. The government has 117
seats and may gain the support of independent lawmakers and
smaller groups that have backed it previously, including the
Blue Coalition, which groups several parties with a total of 14
lawmakers.  The Socialists and Attack control 50 seats in the assembly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  