-- HTC Profit Declines 70% After ‘Dropping the Ball’ on Phones
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-04-06T08:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/htc-profit-declines-70-after-dropping-the-ball-on-phones-1-.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , Asia’s second-largest
smartphone maker, posted its biggest drop in profit since
listing a decade ago after sales declined amid competition from
Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co.  First-quarter net income was NT$4.46 billion ($151
million), the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company said in a statement
on its  website  today, a 70 percent drop from a year earlier. The
average of 17  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was for
profit of NT$4.62 billion.  HTC “dropped the ball” on new products during the fourth
quarter, Chief Financial Officer Winston Yung said in February,
pushing inventories higher and prompting the company to forecast
a “transitional” first quarter.  “HTC’s sales growth for 2Q12 from a low base should exceed
those for major competitors Apple and Samsung,” Dale Gai, who
rates the stock equal weight, the equivalent of hold, at
Barclays Plc in Taipei, wrote in an April 3 report.  Revenue for the quarter dropped 35 percent to NT$67.8
billion, compared with the NT$71.1 billion average of 22
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg and HTC’s own February
guidance of NT$65 billion to NT$70 billion.  “We simply dropped the ball on products in the fourth
quarter,” Yung said in a Feb. 6  conference call , where he
described the first quarter as a transitional period and
forecast a sales decline. “The form factor could be better and
the product design could be better. So we’ve learned lessons
from the fourth quarter products.”  HTC shares climbed 2.8 percent to close at NT$585 in
Taipei, before the announcement.  HTC no longer provides shipment numbers, and is scheduled
to update second-quarter guidance and discuss first-quarter
results in a conference call to be held later this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  