-- Cash and Loans to Be Allowed to Back European Swaps, Russo Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-04-06T20:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/cash-and-loans-to-be-allowed-to-back-european-swaps-russo-says.html
Cash and secured loans will be
allowed as collateral to back cleared swap contracts in Europe,
while equities won’t be accepted, said Daniela Russo, a director
general at the  European Central Bank .  The Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems and the
Technical Committee of the International Organization of
Securities Commissions plans to release its report on financial
market infrastructure that’s specific to clearing swaps on April
16, Russo said today in a speech at an over-the-counter
derivatives symposium at the Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago.  Banks,  hedge funds  and asset managers active in the $708
trillion over-the-counter  derivatives market  are adapting to
changes mandated by U.S. and European regulators, including a
requirement to process most swaps with a clearinghouse to cut
counterparty risk. How much margin and of what type will be
allowed to back such trades at clearinghouses is being debated
now as rules are written.  The collateral should be of “high quality and liquidity,”
Russo said. Cash held at central banks or commercial banks, as
well as collateralized loans, will be accepted by European
regulators, she said. When asked for more details from an
audience member she said such loans “secured with  government
bonds ” were acceptable, an answer that drew laughter.  Spain, Italy Bonds  Yesterday, Spanish and Italian bonds led losses among
Europe’s higher-yielding government securities on speculation
authorities will struggle to stop the region’s debt crisis from
spreading.  Spain ’s  10-year bonds  dropped after demand fell at a
debt sale and an International Monetary Fund spokesman said the
nation is facing “severe” challenges. The slide in Spanish
securities pushed 10-year yields to the highest since the
European Central Bank started providing three-year loans in
December in its longer-term refinancing operations.  Because equities may not be able to be sold immediately if
cash is needed for collateral, they aren’t being allowed, Russo
said. “There are very limited central banks that accept
equities as collateral,” she said.  While the Dodd-Frank Act in the U.S. mandated that swaps
that are cleared must be traded on exchanges or similar systems,
European regulators are still determining how swaps users will
be allowed to buy and sell contracts.  As the European rules stand, derivatives contracts will be
divided across three categories and traded on different
platforms depending on how active or liquid they are, according
to proposed amendments to the European Unions’ Markets in
Financial Instruments Directive, or MiFID. EU legislators have
yet to detail the rules.  MiFid  One issue in  Europe  is that there are more than 100
regulated trading systems on the continent, all with different
reporting systems, Russo said.  “That’s why the discussion on MiFid is so difficult,
because we need to find common ground,” Russo said. Another
issue in Europe is that swap data repositories, where trade
sizes and prices would be reported daily, are lessening the need
for trading requirements, she said.  “It’s very important that there’s a perception of common
standards and implementation” between global regulators, she
said. There must be cooperation and enforcement of the rules
“in ways that aren’t debatable,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shannon D. Harrington at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net  