-- CEO Pay at AIG, GM, Ally Won’t Rise This Year, Treasury Says
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-04-06T19:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/ceo-pay-at-aig-gm-ally-won-t-rise-this-year-treasury-says.html
The chief executive officers of
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) , Ally Financial Inc. and
 General Motors Co., (GM)  which received government bailouts, won’t
get an increase in total compensation this year, the U.S.
Treasury Department said.  “Although there has been some modification in the mix of
stock salary and long-term restricted stock for the CEO group,
the overall amount of CEO compensation is frozen at 2011
levels,” according to a  Treasury statement  today in Washington.  The Treasury said the top 69 executives at the three
companies saw their total cash compensation decrease 18 percent
and their direct compensation drop 10 percent from 2011 levels.  The three companies have received “exceptional’ assistance
from the Troubled Asset Relief Program. Earnings for the top 25
executives at the bailed-out companies must be approved by
Patricia Geoghegan, the Obama administration’s acting special
master for  executive compensation .  This was the second year in a row for a CEO pay freeze,
according to the Treasury.  Robert Benmosche  is the CEO of AIG,
and his counterparts are  Michael Carpenter  at Ally and Dan
Akerson at General Motors.  AIG received about $68 billion from the bailout program; GM
received $50 billion; and Ally accepted $17.2 billion.  The TARP special master annually determines the
compensation levels for institutions that received exceptional
assistance from the bailout program. The Treasury decides the
amount based on criteria including incentives for excessive
risk, the company’s ability to repay Tarp, and performance-based
compensation structures.  Treasury also gave exceptional assistance to Bank of
America Corp., Citigroup Inc., Chrysler Financial Corp., and
Chrysler Group LLC, which have all exited the rescue program.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  