-- Chinese Accounts Frozen in SEC Zhongpin Insider-Trade Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-04-06T16:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/chinese-accounts-frozen-in-sec-zhongpin-insider-trade-suit-1-.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission won a court order freezing assets of six Chinese
citizens and a British Virgin Islands entity in an insider-
trading case involving China-based pork processor  Zhongpin Inc. (HOGS)   U.S. District Judge Matthew F. Kennelly in  Chicago  issued
the restraining order requested by the SEC on April 4, without
prior notice to those whose assets were frozen, according to an
April 5 court filing.  The individual defendants and the offshore Prestige Trade
Investments Ltd. made more than $9.2 million in profits on
“eerily well-timed” purchases of call options and stock in
Zhongpin, in the days and weeks before the company’s chairman
announced a proposal to take the Nasdaq-listed company private,
according to a court filing by the SEC.  The asset freeze was needed “to prevent a group of foreign
traders from absconding with millions of dollars in illicit
profits from  insider trading  that they conducted through their
U.S.-based brokerage accounts,” the SEC said.  Xianfu Zhu, chairman and chief executive officer of the
Changge, Henan-based company, on March 26 offered to purchase
the company’s outstanding shares for about $418 million, or
roughly $13.50 a share. He already owns about 18 percent of the
business. The shares jumped 22 percent the following day.  ‘Highly Suspicious’  “Defendants’ trading is highly suspicious and strongly
indicates that defendants purchased securities while in
possession of and based on material, nonpublic information,”
according to the SEC.  Each of the defendants is a citizen of  China  or  Hong Kong 
and lives outside the U.S., the SEC said.  Kennelly said the SEC had shown “good cause” to believe
the defendants’ transactions had violated federal securities
laws. He told them to repatriate to the U.S. any assets removed
since March 27 within seven days of his order.  David Furbush, of Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP, an
attorney for defendant Siming Yang, didn’t immediately reply to
a voice-mail message seeking comment. Attorney information for
the other individual defendants wasn’t immediately available.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Yang, 12-cv-2473, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  