-- Chinese Plan Indicates Fewer Wind Farm May Win Approval
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-06T11:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/chinese-plan-indicates-fewer-wind-farm-may-win-approval.html
China , the world’s biggest wind-
power market, issued plans that may indicate it will approve
fewer of the projects this year than it did in 2011.  The National Energy Administration plans to approve 16.76
gigawatts of wind-power projects in 2012, Shi Lishan, deputy
director of the administration’s renewable energy division, said
by telephone today. That doesn’t include six provinces where
extensive capacity has already been built or is planned and
where new approvals will be considered separately, Shi said.
China approved 26.83 gigawatts of wind farms last year.  Authorities began tightening approval for projects last
year after rapid growth of capacity led some wind farms to
produce less power than they were capable of either because the
electricity generated exceeded demand or because transmission
lines couldn’t safely carry it. Bloomberg New Energy Finance
analyst Demi Zhu estimates China will approve 18 gigawatts to 20
gigawatts of new wind projects this year.  “There’s an attempt to slow down to make sure development
of wind farms is more carefully planned,”  Michael Parker , an
analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  Hong Kong , said today
by phone. The slowdown will be “short term” because China
continues to be focused on expanding renewable power generation,
Parker said.  The energy administration’s plan, which was distributed to
its regional branches, state-owned grid operators and utility
companies, includes 837 megawatts of “distributed-access” wind
farms, which produce electricity for consumption at the place of
generation. The plan also includes 1 gigawatt for pilot grid-
connected projects, said the administration’s Shi.  Separate Review  Approvals for projects in the provinces of Heilongjiang,
Jilin, Inner Mongolia, Ningxia, Gansu and Xinjiang aren’t
included in the plan. Proposed projects in these regions will be
considered separately, said Shi.  Curtailment, when wind farms produce at less than their
generation capacity, has been seen in regions including  Inner
Mongolia  and Heilongjiang, said Sanford C. Bernstein’s Parker.  “Winning bids are heavily skewed toward those areas or
provinces that don’t have grid connection problems,” Charles Yonts, an analyst at CLSA Ltd. in Hong Kong, said by e-mail.  China Longyuan Power Group Corp. (916) , the nation’s biggest
wind-farm developer, said Mar. 26 that it plans to add 1.6
gigawatts of capacity this year, down from 2 gigawatts in 2011.  The nation installed 20 gigawatts of wind farms in 2011, an
18 percent increase from a year earlier, according to New Energy
Finance. The London-based research firm expects new
installations to decline to 19.1 gigawatts this year.  “For turbine makers, it’s the worst news,” Parker said.
“Their growth’s gonna decelerate and may be negative.”   Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co. (002202) , China’s
second-biggest wind turbine maker, said in March that it expects
first-quarter net income to fall more than 50 percent. Its
profit last year tumbled 73.5 percent from a year earlier.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  