-- CIFG Asks to Add Loan Originator to Goldman Sachs MBS Suit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-04-06T19:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/cifg-asks-to-add-loan-originator-to-goldman-sachs-mbs-lawsuit.html
CIFG Assurance North America Inc.
asked a judge to let it add shuttered loan originator GreenPoint
Mortgage Funding Inc. to a lawsuit against  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  over $275 million in mortgage-backed securities.  The insurer sued Goldman Sachs in New York State Supreme
Court in  Manhattan  in August, accusing the investment bank of
making misrepresentations in connection with the securitization
of a portfolio of 6,204  mortgage loans .  In court documents filed yesterday, CIFG asked Justice O.
Peter Sherwood to allow it to add GreenPoint as a defendant if a
motion by Goldman Sachs to dismiss the complaint isn’t granted,
saying that GreenPoint originated a “substantial” number of
the loans involved in the securitization.  “GreenPoint was not included in the original complaint
because GreenPoint’s contractually provided time to respond to
CIFG’s demand that it repurchase defective loans had not yet
expired,” CIFG said in yesterday’s filing. “Post-complaint
correspondence with GreenPoint has now confirmed that GreenPoint
will not comply with CIFG’s repurchase demand.”  Goldman Sachs in October asked the court to throw out the
lawsuit, saying CIFG was informed of the risks associated with
the investments, failed to conduct its own due diligence and
hasn’t sought “clear contractual remedies” that would allow it
to seek the repurchase of specific loans.  ‘Needless Burden’  In a letter to Sherwood dated yesterday, lawyers for
Goldman Sachs called CIFG’s request an “inappropriate
maneuver” that would impose “needless burden” on the court
and the parties involved.  Justice Bernard Fried on Feb. 24 denied a motion by CIFG
and Syncora Guarantee Inc. to bring new claims against
GreenPoint in a lawsuit over the quality of $1.8 billion of
home-equity loans the two insurers guaranteed.  Fried in March 2010 threw out the original 2009 lawsuit,
which accused the loan originator of violating its mortgage-
underwriting guidelines.  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  shut Novato, California-based
GreenPoint in August 2007, less than a year after acquiring its
parent company,  Long Island ’s North Fork Bancorp. Julie Rakes, a
spokeswoman for McLean, Virginia-based Capital One, said in an
e-mail that the company doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  The case is CIFG Assurance North America Inc. v. Goldman,
Sachs & Co., 652286/2011, New York Supreme Court, New York
County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  