-- Clearinghouse Default Process Needs Clarity, Swaps Users Say
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-04-06T16:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/clearinghouse-default-process-needs-clarity-swaps-users-say.html
Regulators need to finish writing
the rules on how to unwind a swaps clearinghouse if it fails,
derivatives industry users and observers said at a conference
today.  “It’s very important that sooner rather than later
regulators make sure we get these things written down so they’re
respected,”  John Williams , a partner in the derivatives and
structured products finance group at law firm Allen & Overy LLP,
said today at an over-the-counter derivatives symposium at the
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago. He called a default by a
clearinghouse “the worst worst scenario,” and said more
research on how to handle such an event is needed.  Clearinghouses are required to process most swaps in the
$708 trillion OTC derivatives market under both U.S. and
European regulations. The Financial Stability Oversight Council,
led by U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , is
determining which clearinghouses should face heightened
supervision, examination and reporting requirements, and it
hasn’t yet announced its designees. The body also includes
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  The Dodd-Frank Act in the U.S. allows the Fed to bail out a
clearinghouse if it has been deemed systemically important. The
law also allows regulators to take over a clearinghouse if it’s
not bailed out, said David Skeel, a professor of corporate law
at the University of Pennsylvania Law School.  Implications of Failure  “We really do need to be thinking of the implications of
financial failure in this area,” he said at the symposium,
which was attended by members of the dealer banks that dominate
the swaps market, asset managers, lawyers, regulators and
academics.  Clearinghouses , capitalized by their members, seek to
reduce the effect of a member default by collecting daily margin
and ensuring users can meet their obligations. If they can’t,
their positions are liquidated. They also provide regulators
with access to derivatives positions and pricing.  Speakers at the Fed event debated how derivatives trades
should be treated when a counterparty defaults. Under current
bankruptcy law, swaps and futures trades don’t face a “stay,”
or a freeze in activity, if the bank or money manager that owns
the trades defaults.  A stay of a few days may give the defaulted user time to
value the transactions, Skeel said. Derivatives are live
contracts, however, with their value changing constantly through
a bankruptcy process, and should be allowed to be settled or
transferred as soon as possible, said Athanassios Diplas, global
head of systemic risk management at Deutsche Bank AG.  ‘Added Uncertainty’  “The market will only move against you” in the time that
any trades were stayed, he said.  Not allowing trades to be settled or moved would also add
to systemic risk, said representatives of clearinghouses.  A stay would cause “a tremendous amount of added
uncertainty” in the time of default, said Dale Michaels, a
managing director in credit and market risk management at  CME
Group Inc. (CME)  A delay could “even cause more systemic risk or even
the default of a central counterparty,” or clearinghouse, he
said.  Chris Edmonds, president of ICE Clear Credit,
 Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) ’s credit-default swap
clearinghouse, agreed.  “You’re increasing systemic risk if you limit our ability
to act,” he said. Clearing members are required to bid on and
take over positions from a defaulted fellow member, and are
under stress in such scenarios, Edmonds said. “Those who have
the most amount to lose are the ones we have to go to first,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shannon D. Harrington at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net  