-- Consumer Credit in U.S. Rose Less Than Forecast in February
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-04-06T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/consumer-credit-in-u-s-rose-less-than-forecast-in-february.html
U.S.  consumer borrowing  rose less
than forecast in February, restrained by a drop in credit-card
debt, according to a Federal Reserve report.  Credit increased $8.7 billion, the least in four months,
after a revised $18.6 billion gain in January that was more than
initially estimated, Federal Reserve figures showed today in
 Washington . Economists projected a $12 billion rise in the
measure of revolving and non-revolving loans for February,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Smaller gains in borrowing indicate American households are
continuing to pay down debt or are less optimistic about their
finances. Another report today showed the economy created fewer
jobs than forecast in March, a sign it may take time before
consumers become more comfortable taking on debt.  “Credit card borrowing has slowed down a bit,”  Aneta Markowska , a senior U.S. economist at  Societe Generale  in  New
York , said before the report. “Clearly there was a run up in
the past few months related to the holidays, and we’ve seen a
pretty meaningful slowdown. The process of repairing consumers’
balance sheets still has farther to go.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 33 economists ranged
from gains of $2 billion to $20 billion.  Payrolls climbed 120,000 in March, the smallest gain in
five months, the Labor Department in Washington said today. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for a 205,000
increase. The  unemployment rate  fell to 8.2 percent from 8.3
percent as people left the  labor force .  The Fed’s statistics showed  revolving debt , which comprises
credit cards, fell $2.2 billion in February after a $3 billion
drop a month earlier.  Non-Revolving Debt  Non-revolving debt , including educational loans and
borrowing for autos and mobile homes, climbed by $10.9 billion
in February, the smallest gain in four months, today’s report
showed. The Fed’s report doesn’t track debt secured by real
estate, such as home equity lines of credit.  Cars and light trucks sold at a 14.3 million  annual rate  in
March, capping the strongest quarter in four years, according to
data from Ward’s Automotive Group.  The increase in credit reflected a $300 million non-
unadjusted rise to $453.3 billion in the federal government
category of borrowing, which includes school loans and has shown
bigger gains in recent months.  Even with the slowdown in March, job growth this year has
been enough to boost spending. Purchases rose 0.8 percent, the
most in seven months, Commerce Department data showed last week.  Consumer confidence  is “getting a little better,” Michael
Schlotman, chief financial officer at Kroger Co., the largest
U.S. grocery chain, said during a March 28 conference. “People
who want to spend a little bit more on things inside our store
appear to be having a little more confidence, but more budget-
minded customer continues to show significant signs of stress.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  