-- Credit Agricole Unit, Magnetar Sued by Intesa Over ‘Pyxis’ CDO
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-04-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/credit-agricole-unit-magnetar-are-sued-over-cdo-by-intesa-1-.html
Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , France’s third-
biggest lender, and hedge fund Magnetar Capital LLC were sued by
an investor in a collateralized debt obligation that claims to
have been defrauded.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  said in a complaint filed yesterday in
 Manhattan  federal court that it lost $180 million after Credit
Agricole’s Calyon unit induced it in 2006 to invest in a CDO
secretly structured by Magnetar to lose money.  “Calyon itself would have borne that loss had it not
fraudulently transferred the risk to Intesa,” according to the
complaint.  Intesa claims Calyon told investors that the CDO -- known
as Pyxis ABS CDO 2006-1 -- was based on residential mortgage-
backed securities that had been chosen by an independent
investment firm, Putnam Advisory Co., when the underlying
securities were really selected by Magnetar.  Putnam was also named as a defendant in the case.  “The scheme was designed by Magnetar,” Intesa alleged.
“Calyon collected fees on the deal and, through the Pyxis swap,
shifted losses on the CDO which it would have otherwise borne
itself.”  Intesa, based in Turin,  Italy , and formerly known as Banca
Intesa SpA, seeks unspecified money damages in its fraud
lawsuit.  Mary Guzman, a spokeswoman for Calyon, and Putnam spokesman
Jon Goldstein didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment on
the filing after regular business hours yesterday.  Melinda McMullen, a spokeswoman for Evanston, Illinois-
based Magnetar, also didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment.  The case is Intesa v. Credit Agricole, 12-cv-2683, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 