-- EDF, Iberdrola Beat GDF Suez in French Offshore Wind Tender
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-04-06T13:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/edf-iberdrola-beat-gdf-suez-in-french-offshore-wind-farm-tender.html
Electricite de  France  SA and
partners including turbine maker  Alstom SA (ALO)  won a French
government tender to build three offshore wind farms, and
 Iberdrola SA (IBE)  got one, while  GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  was left empty-handed.  EDF, Danish utility Dong Energy A/S, and Alstom were picked
to build 1,428 megawatts of wind power at three sites off the
coasts of Brittany and Normandy, the government said today.
Spanish power company Iberdrola and U.K. group RES will erect a
500-megawatt farm with  Areva SA (AREVA) ’s turbines off the Saint-Brieuc
shore in Brittany, though its offer was higher than Paris-based
EDF’s on that site, France said.  “We want an industry walking on two legs, which is why we
picked the second-best” bidder in Saint-Brieuc, French Industry
Minister Eric Besson said at a press conference in Paris today.
“It was in Saint-Brieuc that the gap” between the best two
bids “was the smallest.”  Today’s win represents an order of about 240 turbines worth
more than 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion), which will be booked
over a several years, Alstom said in a statement. The company
based near Paris will invest about 100 million euros and create
5,000 direct and indirect jobs in French factories that will
make towers, blades, generators and nacelles for its 6-megawatt
turbines currently under development.  Le Havre  Areva, which manufactures 5-megawatt  wind turbines  in
 Germany , has said it will build plants in the French harbor of
 Le Havre  which would also be used if the company were to win
orders for U.K. offshore farms.  Eiffage SA (FGR) , STX and  Technip SA (TEC) 
will help install the foundations of the turbines, Iberdrola and
RES said in a joint statement today.  France, which doesn’t yet have any offshore wind power,
plans to install 6,000 megawatts of offshore wind, tidal and
wave power by 2020 to boost clean energy, Besson said. The four
zones awarded today with a combined capacity of 1,920 megawatts
will require about 7 billion euros of investment and allow the
creation of 10,000 direct jobs, the minister said.  Companies are due to proceed to further studies on the
seabed, continue discussions with local stakeholders such as
fishermen and confirm funding of the projects by the end of
2013.  Power prices offered by today’s winners all exceeded
indicative tariffs suggested by the government in the tender,
and will add 1.1 billion euros to the annual electricity bill of
French households when these farms are due to be completed by
the end of the decade, the minister said.  GDF Suez Empty-Handed  GDF Suez, which was bidding in four of the five offshore
areas being tendered today, got none. The  Paris-based company
didn’t get a site near Le Treport in the Channel where it was
sole bidder because its offer was “extremely” costly, Besson
said. Awarding the Treport area to GDF would have added an
annual 500 million euros to French consumers’ bills, he said.  The government will start another round of tenders for
offshore wind farms in the second half, which will again include
the Treport area and a site near the Noirmoutier island off the
Atlantic coast, among other sites, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  