-- Mediocre AAA Bonds Ready to Rebound From Worst Rout: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-04-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/mediocre-aaa-bonds-ready-to-rebound-from-worst-rout-muni-credit.html
Top-rated municipal bonds are poised
to end their worst annual start in at least 19 years as the
waning of debt insurance and borrowers’ deteriorating credit
quality shrink supply.  Tax-exempt debt rated AAA has earned 0.94 percent this year
through April 4 in price gains and interest, according to a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index. That’s less than half the 2.04
percent for the full market and the biggest difference since at
least 1993, when the data begin.  Bonds with the best grade have shrunk from about 70 percent
of those outstanding in 2007 to about 20 percent of the $3.7
trillion market now, according to Matt Fabian of Municipal
Market Advisors. Debt insurers were stripped of their top
ratings after losses on mortgage securities, while the longest
recession since the 1930s led to municipal downgrades.  “Increased scarcity of AAAs will make people bid more
aggressively for the ones that remain,” said Fabian, a managing
director at Concord, Massachusetts-based MMA. “It’s a much
stronger statement in 2012 to show a AAA rating than it was five
years ago.”  Of the $82 billion of municipals sold so far in 2012, about
14 percent were top-rated, down from an average of 20 percent in
the same period of the previous five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Currently, 13 states carry the Aaa rating of Moody’s
Investors Service on their general-obligation bonds and two have
an Aaa issuer rating, the same as a year ago, according to  David Jacobson , a spokesman. Moody’s Aaa corresponds to the AAA mark
used by  Standard & Poor’s .  Oregon Issue  Among borrowers rated AAA selling next week is the Oregon
Department of Administrative Services. It’s offering about $68
million of lottery-revenue securities to fund college-
construction projects.  Investors have favored lesser-ranked bonds as the yield on
top-rated general-obligations due in 10 years in a Bloomberg
Fair Value index  fell to 1.88 percent  Feb. 6, the lowest since
at least 1991. It was little changed yesterday at 2.3 percent.  “It’s more a reach for yield than anything else,” said
Dexter Torres, head trader at Samson Capital Advisors in  New
York , which oversees $6.8 billion of munis. “People are looking
for some sort of income, and they aren’t seeing it with AAAs.”  General-obligations due in 10 years in a Bloomberg index of
 BBB bonds  yielded 3.68 percent yesterday. Demand for the
securities drove down  the difference  with AAA debt to 136 basis
points March 16, the lowest since August. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Less Insurance  More than half of new bonds were insured against default in
the five years through 2007, according to Joe Deane, who helps
oversee $16 billion as head of munis for Pacific Investment
Management Co. in New York. The share was less than 10 percent
last year, his February report shows.  Ambac Financial (ABK)  Group Inc.,  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  and Financial
Guaranty Insurance Co., the three biggest muni insurers, had
their AAA credit ratings cut amid losses from backing mortgage
bonds. Those are the same securities that bankrupted Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  Without insurance, investors now must examine the soundness
of borrowers themselves, said Torres at Samson.  “Since the financial crisis, credit has become the
story,” he said.  Moody’s has cut more ratings than were raised for 12
straight quarters. Five were lowered for every one lifted from
October through December, a January report said.  New Criteria  In the first half of 2006, seven states had the top grade.
Moody’s assigned higher ratings to 34 states and  Puerto Rico  in
2010 when it shifted criteria for municipals to match those used
for company debt.  Moody’s may lower 453 top-rated issuers using a new
evaluation method under consideration, it said in a March 19
report. The stand-alone U.S. public finance housing issues with
mortgage enhancements would be capped at Aa1, a step below the
highest grade, under the proposed change.  The amount of bonds involved is about $3 billion, less than
5 percent of the Aaa market share, Fabian at MMA said in an
interview. That’s still about 25 percent of all of Moody’s
municipal Aaa ratings, he said in a March 26 report.  Following are descriptions of coming sales:  LOS ANGELES,  California ’s most-populous city, plans to
offer about $278 million of general-obligation refunding bonds
as soon as next week. S&P rates the debt AA-, its fourth-highest
investment grade. (Updated April 6)  CONNECTICUT (STOCT1)  will issue about $260 million of tax-exempt and
$83 million of taxable general-obligation bonds as soon as next
week, according to Bloomberg data. The debt is rated AA by S&P,
third-highest.  Barclays Capital  will lead banks. (Added April 6)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 