-- Fred Couples Shares Masters Lead After Two Rounds as Woods Slips
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-06T23:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/lee-westwood-leads-masters-after-day-one-as-woods-trails-by-5.html
Fred Couples  is tied for the lead
after the second round of golf’s  Masters Tournament , 20 years
after his victory at the season’s first major championship.
Tiger Woods shot a 3-over-par 75 and fell eight shots behind.  The 52-year-old Couples shot a 5-under 67 today at Augusta
National Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia, and is 5 under overall
after 36 holes. He’s tied atop the leaderboard with fellow
American  Jason Dufner , who shot a second-round 70.  Couples is playing in his 28th Masters and has had 11
top-10 finishes at Augusta National, including his win in 1992
and a sixth-place finish in 2010.  “It’s a little bizarre,” Couples, who tied for 15th place
last year, said of being atop the leaderboard. “A few people
asked me how I was going to do this year and I said, ‘I really
just want to be competitive.’ This is my favorite place in the
world to play. It really was a magical day.”  U.S. Open  champion Rory McIlroy is among a group of five
players at 4 under par after shooting a second-round 69. McIlroy
blew a four-stroke final-round lead at the Masters a year ago
before winning at the U.S. Open.  “I know I’m playing well, the recent results have shown
that,” said McIlroy, who’s ranked second in the world. “I just
wanted to try to put myself in position to win another major,
another tournament. I just want to keep that rolling.”  One Shot Back  Lee Westwood , Bubba Watson,  Sergio Garcia  and Louis Oosthuizen are also one shot off the lead. Westwood was in the
lead until making a double-bogey at the final hole and finishing
with a second-round 73. Garcia shot 68, Watson had a 71 and
Oosthuizen, the 2010 British Open winner, birdied three of the
final five holes in a second-round 72.  Woods struggled with the putter and matched his second-
worst second-round score in 18 Masters appearances. He carded
five bogeys after birdies on two of the first three holes today
and at one point kicked his club in frustration after a poor tee
shot at the par-3 16th hole.  “I didn’t quite have it today with my swing,” Woods, the
pre-tournament favorite, said in a televised interview. “I was
2 under through three and then blew that.”  In Woods’s 14 major tournament victories, he hasn’t posted
a score worse than 69 in the second round.  Matt Kuchar of the U.S., Paul Lawrie of  Scotland  and Miguel Angel Jimenez of  Spain  are tied at 3 under par, while three-time
Masters winner  Phil Mickelson  is among eight players at 2 under.
Mickelson shot 68 today to rebound from an opening-day 74.  “I played well and shot something in the 60s that got me
back in the tournament,” Mickelson said. “To be only three
back now heading into the weekend feels great.”  World No. 1 Luke Donald is 4 over par, making the cut for
weekend play by two strokes.  Sixty-three players in the field of 94 finished within 10
strokes of the lead to advance to weekend play. Jason Day of
 Australia , a runner-up at the Masters a year ago, pulled out of
the tournament midway through today’s round because of an ankle
injury. He was 5 over par at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Augusta,  Georgia , at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  