-- Egypt’s Islamists Join Race for Presidency Ahead of May P
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-04-06T13:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/egypt-s-islamists-join-race-for-presidency-ahead-of-may-p.html
Thousands of backers of Salafi
Egyptian presidential hopeful Hazem Abu Ismail gathered today in
Cairo amid concern he may be disqualified if reports that his
mother held U.S. citizenship are confirmed.  The elections commission said yesterday that it received a
letter from the passports and citizenship authority saying Abu
Ismail’s mother used an American passport on three occasions to
enter and leave the country. Under Egyptian law, a candidate is
ineligible for the top office if either they or their parents
hold or had held another nationality. Abu Ismail has repeatedly
denied that his mother held U.S. citizenship.  Abu Ismail’s disqualification would be a boost for the
Muslim Brotherhood’s nominee, Khairat el-Shater. The millionaire
businessman served as the second-in-command for the Brotherhood,
whose political arm holds nearly 50 percent of the seats in the
lower house of parliament. Salafis follow a stricter
interpretation of Islam than the Brotherhood.  “The people want Hazem Abu Ismail,” chanted crowds of men
with the bushy beards without moustaches common to Salafis in
the capital’s  Tahrir Square , according to footage shown on the
private Egyptian satellite channel ON TV. “Field Marshal, we
won’t allow rigging,” they shouted, referring to Field Marshal
Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, the military ruler, and the perceived
attempt to maneuver the candidate out of the race.  Monopolize Power  The election commission is still awaiting confirmation from
the Foreign Ministry, which is inquiring about the citizenship
of Abu Ismail’s mother from U.S. officials, the commission’s
secretary-general, Hatem Bagato, said by telephone today. The
final list of qualified candidates will be announced on April
26, he said. The commission has accepted the completed
applications from 13 hopefuls so far, including Abu Ismail,
according to its  website .  The Brotherhood’s decision to field a candidate, reversing
an earlier pledge to stay out the May vote, has ratcheted up
tensions in the first presidential election since last year’s
ouster of  Hosni Mubarak . It also sparked criticism from secular
groups that the Brotherhood is seeking to monopolize power.  El-Shater was nominated because “the government is ruining
Egypt,” said Saad el-Husseini, a lawmaker with the
Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party. “This decision was
made to serve the interests of Egypt and not personal
interests.”  The registration of candidates comes at a time when
wrangling between the ruling military council, the Brotherhood
and other groups vying to shape the country’s future is stifling
efforts to revive the economy.  Reserves Decline  Net international reserves fell to $15.1 billion at the end
of March, down more than 50 percent since the start of the
uprising that toppled Mubarak. A $3.2 billion International
Monetary Fund loan is still pending amid criticism from the
Brotherhood and other groups over the government’s economic
program. The  IMF  has said it wants consensus among  Egypt ’s main
political groups before it concludes the deal.  Gamal Saber, an aide to the Salafi presidential hopeful,
called for a million-man march today in Cairo to defend Abu
Ismail’s bid.  The deadline for submitting candidacy papers for the
presidential vote is April 8. The commission will notify those
who failed to qualify on April 12 and 13 and they will have the
right to appeal, the official Middle East  News Agency  reported.  Opinion Poll  Abu Ismail ranked second with 22.7 percent in a survey
about presidential candidates published this week and conducted
by Al Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies. His
absence from the race would boost votes for el-Shater. The
survey was conducted before the Brotherhood announced it was
fielding a candidate.  The former secretary-general of the  Arab League  and foreign
minister,  Amre Moussa , took the most votes in the poll.  Omar Suleiman , Egypt’s former intelligence chief and Mubarak’s vice
president, said he will not run, ending months of speculation,
the state-run MENA news agency said April 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  