-- Job Gains in U.S. Trail Most-Pessimistic Forecasts: Economy
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-04-06T20:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/employers-added-120-000-jobs-in-march-fewest-in-five-months.html
Hiring by American employers trailed
forecasts in March, casting doubt on the vigor of the more than
two-year-old economic expansion.  The 120,000 increase in payrolls reported by the Labor
Department in Washington today was the smallest in five months
and less than the most pessimistic estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists. The  unemployment rate  fell to 8.2 percent
from 8.3 percent as people left the labor force.  Stock futures, the dollar and Treasury yields all fell as
the report highlighted Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke ’s concern that stronger economic growth is needed to
keep the nation’s jobs engine humming. Today’s data also showed
that Americans worked fewer hours and earned less on average per
week, boding ill for the  consumer spending  that makes up 70
percent of the world’s largest economy.  “We see a lack of sustainability in terms of strong job
growth,”  Tony Crescenzi , a strategist at Pacific Investment
Management Co. in Newport Beach,  California , said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken
Prewitt. “This is still not strong enough to create escape
velocity, which is to say an economy strong enough to make it on
its own without additional monetary stimulus from the  Federal
Reserve .”  Among those having trouble finding work is Xander Piper,
30, who has been looking for a full-time job since September,
when he completed a master’s program in social science at the
University of Chicago. He decided to go to graduate school in
2010 to improve his employment prospects after losing his
position at an advertising agency.  Expected Work Sooner  “When I graduated, I assumed I was going to get a job
within the first couple of months,” said Piper, a San Francisco
resident who said he’s looking for work in education and
sometimes sends out 10 resumes a day.  “Now I work for a temp company, but even they’re having
trouble staffing me,” he said. “I recently had a two to three
month break at my temp company. What I have gotten recently is
call center work, which is just brutal.”  A separate report today from the Fed showed consumer
borrowing rose less than forecast in February, restrained by a
drop in credit-card debt. Credit increased $8.7 billion, the
least in four months, after an $18.6 billion gain in January.  Employment Forecasts  Employment in March was forecast to increase by 205,000,
according to the median projection of 80 economists in the
Bloomberg survey. Estimates ranged from increases of 175,000 to
250,000 after an initially estimated 227,000 gain the prior
month.  S&P 500 futures expiring in June slumped 1.1 percent to
1,374.90 following the benchmark index’s 0.7 percent weekly
loss. U.S. stock exchanges were shut for the Good Friday
holiday. The dollar weakened 1 percent to 81.57 yen at 12:14
p.m. in  New York , touching the lowest level since March 8. The
yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.06
percent from 2.18 percent.  “We see modest growth inside the U.S. and demand for
labor,”  Carl Camden , president and chief executive officer of
 Kelly Services Inc. (KELYA) , a Troy, Michigan-based staffing agency,
said March 12 during a conference. The expansion is “a nice
steady, not robust, not rock-and-roll, but a steady recovery,
capable of producing a steady stream of jobs.”  Temporary Hiring  Employment at service providers increased 89,000 after a
211,000 gain in February. Professional and business service
payrolls rose 31,000 last month, restrained by a 7,500 drop in
temporary hiring.  J.C. Penney Co., the fourth-largest U.S. department-store
company, is among employers cutting jobs. The company said today
it notified about 1,000 workers, primarily in its headquarters
in Plano,  Texas , and its Pittsburgh customer call center, that
their jobs will be cut as part of a restructuring plan.  Part of the slowdown in March may have reflected a warmer
winter, which prompted some employers to hire more or retain
workers in previous months than they otherwise would have,  Paul
Ashworth , chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics Ltd., said
in an e-mail to clients. The average gain in payrolls from
December through February was 246,000.  “We had mild weather, which basically had consumers in the
marketplace earlier,” said Jack Kleinhenz, chief economist of
the National Retail Federation, a Washington-based trade group.
As a result, retailers postponed headcount reductions that
typically follow the holiday shopping season, he said.  Retailers Cut Back  The March data showed a 34,000 decrease in retail
employment, the biggest decline since October 2009. The Labor
Department said today that the number of people unable to work
due to inclement weather was 360,000 below average from December
through February.  Temperatures in December through February averaged 36.8
degrees Fahrenheit (2.7 degrees Celsius), 3.9 degrees above the
average in the 20th century, representing the fourth-warmest
winter on record for the 48 contiguous U.S. states, according to
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.  Some economists saw similarities with early 2011, when the
economy slowed amid rising energy prices, a disruption of
supplies caused by the tsunami in  Japan  and political gridlock
in the U.S. over the debt ceiling.  This year, rising gasoline prices and the European debt
crisis are taking a toll, said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,  Pennsylvania .  ‘A Better Place’  Even so, “We are definitely in a better place today than
we were a year ago, and two years ago,” he said. “The thing
that’s quite amazing is how well the economy’s performed given
all those headwinds.”  The jobs report broke a pattern that was boosting President
Barack Obama’s re-election prospects and prompted a renewed
attack on his record from Mitt Romney, the leading contender for
the Republican nomination.  “Millions of Americans are paying a high price for
President Obama’s economic policies, and more and more people
are growing so discouraged that they are dropping out of the
 labor force  altogether,” Romney, a former Massachusetts
governor, said in a statement released by his campaign.  Obama said “we welcome” the added jobs and the decline in
the  unemployment rate . The economy’s created more than 4 million
private sector jobs in the past two years, more than 600,000 in
the past three months, he said.  ‘More Work To Do’  “But, it’s clear to every American that there will still
be ups and downs along the way and that we’ve got a lot more
work to do,” the president said at a forum on women and the
economy at the White House.  Only one president since World War II,  Ronald Reagan , has
been re-elected with a jobless rate above 6 percent. Reagan won
a second term in 1984 with 7.2 percent unemployment in the month
of the election, after the rate had fallen almost three
percentage points in the previous 18 months.  The unemployment rate, derived from a separate survey of
households, was forecast to hold at 8.3 percent, according to
the Bloomberg survey median.  The jobless rate dropped as both unemployed and employed
workers left the labor force. The participation rate, which
indicates the share of working-age people in the labor force,
fell to 63.8 percent from 63.9 percent.  Private Payrolls  Private payrolls, which exclude government agencies, rose
121,000 in March after a gain of 233,000 the prior month. They
were projected to climb by 215,000. Manufacturing payrolls
increased by 37,000 after a 31,000 gain.  Sustained auto purchases are prompting  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the
second-biggest U.S. automaker, to bring in more workers. The
Dearborn, Michigan-based manufacturer boosted its 2012 sales
forecast to 14.5 million to 15 million vehicles from a previous
projection of 13.5 million to 14.5 million.  “We’ve already announced some shift increases, some adds
in terms of shifts this year,”  Erich Merkle , sales analyst at
Ford, said April 3 on a conference call with analysts. “So,
certainly we’ll be adding some people to fill those shifts.”  At the Western Area Career and Technology Center in
Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, about 25 miles southwest of
Pittsburgh, the job placement rate is 94 percent.  Energy Boom  Some companies in the region, home to an energy boom
related to shale gas drilling, are starting to compete for
workers, Joseph Iannetti, the school’s director said April 4.
Enrollment at the campus in Canonsburg, typically less than 400
students, is 430 this year, he said.  “We’re about to go into a really nice labor shortage
here,” he said. “We’re seeing increasing demand for people
with skill.”  The Commerce Department last week said the economy expanded
at a 3 percent annual pace in the fourth quarter after a 1.8
percent rate in the prior three months. Gross domestic product
grew at a 2 percent pace in the first quarter, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists last month.  Today’s report also showed construction companies reduced
payrolls by 7,000 workers last month after a 6,000 decrease.
Government payrolls fell 1,000 in March.  Average weekly earnings fell to $806.96 in March from
$807.56. The average work week for all workers decreased to 34.5
hours from 34.6.  Wage increases are needed to help Americans weather
 gasoline prices  that have increased by 66 cents this year
through April 5, to $3.94 a gallon, according to data from AAA,
the nation’s largest auto club.  Underemployment Rate  The so-called underemployment rate, which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking, decreased to 14.5 percent
from 14.9 percent.  Bernanke, in a speech to economists on March 26, said the
recent employment gains have been a “welcome development.
Still, conditions remain far from normal, as shown, for example,
by the high level of long-term unemployment and the fact that
jobs and hours worked remain well below pre-crisis peaks.”  “We cannot yet be sure that the recent pace of improvement
in the labor market will be sustained,” Bernanke said, adding
he was particularly concerned about the number people out of
work for six months or longer.  Today’s report also showed a decrease in long-term
unemployed Americans. The number of people unemployed for 27
weeks or more eased as a percentage of all jobless, to 42.5
percent from 42.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  