-- Ex-Intel Worker Pleads Guilty to Stealing Design Documents
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-04-06T21:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/ex-intel-worker-pleads-guilty-to-stealing-design-documents-1-.html
A former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  engineer
accused of stealing $1 billion worth of information from the
chipmaker to advance his career with a competitor pleaded guilty
to federal criminal charges.  Biswamohan Pani, 36, of Chelmsford,  Massachusetts , today
admitted to stealing “valuable computer chip manufacturing and
design documents from his former employer,” according a U.S.
 Justice Department  statement. He pleaded guilty to five fraud
counts before U.S. District Judge F. Dennis Saylor in Worcester,
Massachusetts, the government said.  Pani, who worked at  Santa Clara , California-based Intel’s
chip-making plant in Hudson, Massachusetts, gave notice of his
intent to leave on May 29, 2008, and asked that his last day of
work be June 11, according to the U.S. He started at  Advanced
Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  on June 2, while retaining access to Intel’s
data system, prosecutors said.  “Unbeknownst to Intel, Pani had started downloading from
Intel computers numerous secret documents about Intel’s
manufacturing and design of computer chips,” the Justice
Department said.  Intel put a value of $200 million to $400 million on the
documents that Pani admitted to stealing and that federal agents
found in his home, prosecutors said.  Reached by phone, Boston defense attorney Liam Scully, who
appeared in court with Pani today, had no immediate comment on
the guilty plea. Pani was charged in August 2008.  Reported Quickly  “The FBI was able to recover these documents quickly,
before Pani could use them to Intel’s disadvantage, largely
because Intel reported the theft quickly and assisted the
investigation,” the U.S said. “AMD also cooperated with the
investigation,” and there was no evidence its personnel asked
Pani to take the data or knew he had it, the U.S. said.  Pani faces as long as 20 years in prison on each fraud
count. Saylor scheduled sentencing for Aug. 8.  The case is U.S. v. Pani, 08-cr-40034, U.S. District Court,
District of Massachusetts (Worcester).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  