-- Ex-Trader McCrudden Gets 28 Months in Prison for Threats
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-04-06T19:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/ex-trader-mccrudden-gets-28-months-in-prison-for-threats-2-.html
Vincent P. McCrudden, a former  New
York  commodities trader, was sentenced to two years and four
months in prison for threatening to kill federal financial
regulators.  McCrudden, 51, who pleaded guilty last year, was sentenced
today by U.S. District Judge Denis R. Hurley in federal court in
Central Islip, New York. He apologized to his victims.  “I wrote provocative language on my website that could
have been perceived as threatening,” McCrudden told the judge.
“I would never intentionally hurt or cause bodily harm to
another human being.”  On the day his trial was to begin in July he admitted to
threatening the lives of 47 current and former officials,
including Chairman Mary L. Schapiro of the Securities and
Exchange Commission and Chairman  Gary Gensler  of the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.  McCrudden has been held without bail since his arrest upon
returning to the U.S. in January 2011 from Singapore, where he
lived with his fiancee. He was charged with threatening the
officials in profanity-filled e-mails and, after the CFTC sued
him the month before his arrest, Web postings.  ‘Judge Was Fair’  “We do believe the judge was fair,” McCrudden’s lawyer,
Sarita Kedia, said after the sentencing. “We would have liked
to have seen Vincent get to go home sooner rather than later.”  McCrudden posted an “execution” list of government
officials online, urging visitors to his website to take up arms
against them and saying he would “lead by example.” He also e-
mailed a threat directly to one person using Gensler’s name,
prosecutors said.  “The nature of the crime, it’s just horrendous,” Hurley
said today.  McCrudden said he was being persecuted for fighting back
against unfair regulatory actions that destroyed his career. In
addition to trading commodities, he ran his own  hedge funds .  McCrudden wrote in a Sept. 30, 2010, e-mail to Daniel A. Driscoll, chief operating officer of the  National Futures
Association , that he had hired people to kill him.  “It wasn’t ever a question of ‘if’ I was going to kill
you, it was just a question of when,” McCrudden wrote. He sent
the e-mail from Singapore over Gensler’s name.  ‘Execution’ List  Prosecutors charged that, after the CFTC accused him in the
lawsuit of operating unregistered commodity pools, he posted the
“execution” list on his company website.  “Go buy a gun, and let’s get to work in taking back our
country from these criminals,” he wrote on the site, according
to prosecutors. “I will be the first one to lead by example.”  McCrudden moved from  Long Beach , New York, to  Singapore  in
September 2010 because his fiancee had gotten a position there.
He was arrested at Newark Liberty International Airport in  New
Jersey  on returning from the Southeast Asian country.  McCrudden pleaded guilty to two counts of transmission of
threats to injure. Those charges carry a maximum sentence of 10
years in prison. The government asked for 37 months. McCrudden
said he should get the 15 months he already served. He has spent
14 of those months in a Queens, New York, detention center where
he was locked down 23 hours a day, he said.  Regulatory Entanglements  McCrudden’s legal and regulatory entanglements began in
2000, when he was criminally charged with masking shortfalls in
statements to his hedge-fund investors. The government said he
included in his results money he expected to get from a lawsuit
after  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  was accused of manipulating the copper
market.  In 2003, a federal jury in Central Islip acquitted
McCrudden of 15 counts of mail fraud.  The National Futures Association in 2005 denied his
registration application because of the alleged overstatements.
After that decision, which the CFTC and a federal appeals court
upheld, he agreed to get anger-management therapy to avoid
prosecution for sending an NFA lawyer a threatening e-mail.  In October 2009, the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority Inc. ruled that McCrudden induced Hedge Fund Capital
Partners LLC, a New York broker-dealer where he had worked, to
file a form saying he left voluntarily when he really had been
fired, something McCrudden denied.  The National Adjudicatory Council, which hears appeals of
Finra decisions, upheld that finding.  The criminal case is U.S. v. McCrudden, 11-cr-61; and the
civil case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v.
McCrudden, 10-cv-5567, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
New York ( Central Islip ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich in U.S. District Court in Central Islip, New York,
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  