-- Facebook to Nasdaq Gives CEO Greifeld a Victory Over NYSE
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-04-06T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/facebook-to-nasdaq-gives-ceo-greifeld-a-victory-over-nyse.html
Scoring what may be the biggest
listing by a technology company ever will help  Robert Greifeld ,
chief executive officer of Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., forget about
his last clash with  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s  Duncan Niederauer .  Facebook Inc. (FB)  plans to list its shares on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, further cementing the exchange’s position as the favored
venue for the biggest U.S. technology companies, a person with
knowledge of the matter said yesterday. The person declined to
be named because the discussions are private. The social media
giant spurned the New York Stock Exchange, whose stocks have a
market value about triple that of Nasdaq’s companies.  The two biggest American exchange operators are rivals for
virtually every IPO in the country and competed for Facebook,
which filed for a $5 billion initial public offering on Feb. 1.
Winning the IPO would mean more fees, a boost in trading revenue
and the chance to link an exchange’s brand with the largest
social-networking website in the world.  “People are asking about what it means for NYSE to lose
it, but it was critical for Nasdaq to win,”  Richard Repetto , an
analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in New York, said in a
phone interview. “What it does is it keeps the momentum and
likely leads to further IPOs in the future. Whatever brand
Facebook attracts, whether it’s tech or social media, it likely
helps Nasdaq’s cause.”  Robert Madden, a Nasdaq OMX spokesman, declined to comment
on the decision. So did Jonathan Thaw of Facebook and  Rich Adamonis  of NYSE Euronext.  Blow to Niederauer  The decision is the latest blow to Niederauer, who saw his
own attempt to merge with Deutsche Boerse AG fall apart when
European antitrust regulators blocked the deal. Shares of the
company slid 13 percent in 2011, while  Nasdaq OMX (NDAQ)  climbed 3.3
percent and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed.  Greifeld will get bragging rights about luring Facebook
after his unsolicited attempt to acquire the New York Stock
Exchange parent in conjunction with IntercontinentalExchange
Inc. fizzled out when the  Justice Department  said last May it
would sue to block such a transaction. Niederauer was on the
board that rejected Greifeld’s offer and referred to it as
“loosely worded and full of unanswered questions” in an
interview with Bloomberg on April 10.  Nasdaq rose 1.2 percent to $25.52 yesterday, while NYSE
Euronext fell 1.3 percent to $28.31.  Biggest Technology Companies  Nasdaq OMX lists seven of the 10 biggest U.S. technology
companies by market value, including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Microsoft
Corp., the two largest, as well as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Intel Corp .
The NYSE is the home venue for International Business Machines
Corp., ranked third.  Inclusion in the Nasdaq-100 Index may have spurred Facebook
toward Nasdaq, Josef Schuster, founder of Chicago-based Ipox
Schuster LLC, which has about $2 billion tied to indexes that
track IPOs, said in a phone interview. The benchmark gauge
comprises nonfinancial companies including Apple and Google.  The Nasdaq-100 has surged 165 percent since equity markets
bottomed in March 2009, beating the 107 percent gain by the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Should Facebook get a weighting of 4 percent to 5 percent
in the Nasdaq-100, the PowerShares QQQ Trust exchange-traded
fund that tracks the measure “could create $2 billion to $3
billion of systematic demand” for the stock, Schuster said. The
ETF has a market value of $35.9 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Other securities tracking the index would
need to make similar purchases.  ‘Supportive’ of Price  “It would be very supportive for the stock price and may
be one of the main reasons Facebook chose  Nasdaq ,” Schuster
said. “They’d be with Microsoft, Yahoo and Apple. Being
included would create demand no matter how expensive or cheap
the stock is.”  While listings bring in less than a quarter of net revenue
and even less of profit for NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX, the
exchanges fight for IPOs because it leads to more trading and
brand value, said  Larry Tabb , founder of financial-market
research and advisory firm Tabb Group LLC. Listings accounted
for 17 percent of NYSE Euronext’s net revenue last year and 19
percent of Nasdaq OMX’s.  Tabb said March 27 that Facebook’s trading may translate
into about $500,000 to $1 million revenue per year, split among
the exchanges and other venues. That means that NYSE Euronext
and Nasdaq OMX could get an additional $260,000 in trading and
market data revenue alone.  “It’s a huge prestige thing for the exchanges and I’m sure
NYSE is very disappointed, but I don’t think it matters in terms
of the exchange’s share of trading,” Mike Bleich, chief
executive officer of Scout Trading LLC, a market-making firm in
 New York , said in a phone interview. Facebook “will trade
across a variety of exchange platforms as all other stocks do.
The particular platform they list on isn’t special.”  Percent of Trading  Markets owned by NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX had about 30
percent of trading this year in shares listed on NYSE and
Nasdaq, respectively, according to data compiled by Barclays Plc
in a report March 26. The NYSE owner accounted for 11.2 percent
of volume in Nasdaq companies while Nasdaq OMX’s venues had 16.8
percent of trading in NYSE companies, the data showed.  Nasdaq OMX had more at stake because of the perception it
gets all the technology companies, according to Sang Lee,
managing partner at Boston-based Aite Group LLC. Among Internet
IPOs since the beginning of 2011, LinkedIn Corp. and Pandora
Media Inc. picked NYSE, while Nasdaq won Groupon Inc. and Zynga
Inc.  ‘Very Nice Position’  “Having that brand name on that listings side would be
huge,” Lee said of Facebook’s selection. “If they’re able to
do it correctly, the other social-media sites and players would
certainly be talking to Nasdaq initially,” he said. “It would
certainly put them in a very nice position.”  Facebook’s decision follows Bats Global Markets Inc., the
third-largest U.S. exchange operator, withdrawing its IPO on
March 23. Bats planned to compete with NYSE and Nasdaq in
corporate listings, making its own shares the first to call the
Bats BZX Exchange home. A computer bug prevented Bats from
getting its own shares to trade.  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , filed Feb. 1 to
raise $5 billion in the largest Internet IPO on record. The
amount was a placeholder used to calculate fees and may change.
The combined U.S. and German debut of Infineon Technologies AG
in 2000 totaled about $5.85 billion, making it the biggest
technology offering in history.  “I think  Mark Zuckerberg  wants to be mentioned with the
likes of  Bill Gates ,  Michael Dell  and  Steve Jobs ,” Philip Panaro, president and chief executive officer of IM2 Consulting
LLC, said in an e-mail about Facebook’s founder. He was an
adviser to Nasdaq in the mid-1990s and to NYSE in 2004 and 2005.
“Facebook’s culture and brand identity more closely align to
those names and their associated brands,” he said. “At the end
of the day, I think it was all about legacy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  