-- Rejected BOJ Nominee Says Politicians Unrealistic on Policy
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-04-06T09:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/failed-boj-nominee-says-japan-policies-divorced-from-reality-.html
  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  economist  Ryutaro Kono , rejected by lawmakers as a nominee for the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s
board, said politicians are proposing monetary policies that are
“divorced from reality.”  Politicians are spreading “sweet words” that such
policies will reduce the public’s burden, he said in an e-mailed
note today. Kono is surprised that even conservatives are
promoting such views, he said.  The economist said he was “not necessarily passive” about
monetary policy, after he was criticized by lawmakers for
failing to back more aggressive easing to spur growth and end
decade-long deflation. He said a view that he was negative about
an inflation target was a misunderstanding and added that a 2
percent goal, double the central bank’s current aim, may be
suitable for  Japan  in the long term.  The upper chamber of Japan’s parliament yesterday rejected
Kono, adding pressure on the central bank to expand easing after
increasing asset purchases by 10 trillion yen ($122 billion) on
Feb. 14. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his officials are set to
review monetary policy on April 9 and 10 after Shirakawa met
with Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  today.  “Japan’s imminent issues are to reform the social security
system and to achieve fiscal health and so I think raising taxes
is inevitable” as those goals can’t be achieved through
monetary policy, he said. Postponing “necessary reforms by
proposing a high growth rate and unrealistic economic policies
is more widespread among politicians than I expected.”  Yesterday’s vote by the upper chamber, where the ruling
Democratic Party of Japan is a minority, leaves the BOJ with two
vacancies on a nine-person board and more changes are coming:
the terms of two deputy governors end in March next year and
Shirakawa’s tenure ends the following month.  The  Liberal Democratic Party , the largest of
the opposition groups, objected to the nomination, as did some
members of the DPJ.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  