-- Fondiaria, Unipol May Struggle on Cost Goal, Fitch Says
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-04-06T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/fondiaria-unipol-may-struggle-on-cost-goal-fitch-says.html
Fondiaria-SAI SpA (FSA)  and  Unipol Gruppo
Finanziario SpA (UNI)  may struggle to reach their cost-savings goal
after they merge to become  Italy ’s second-largest insurer,
according to  Fitch Ratings .  “This is a very complex integration,” Federico Faccio,
director of the insurance team for London-based Fitch, said in
an interview in Milan. “The ongoing due diligence may unveil
unexpected issues.”  Unipol, Italy’s No. 3 insurer, targets more than 300
million euros ($392 million) of additional revenue and cost
savings by 2015 for the merged group. Fitch said Jan. 31 it may
upgrade the rating of Fondiaria, Italy’s No. 2 insurer, by as
much as three levels if the merger is successfully completed.
Fitch downgraded Fondiaria to  B+ from BB- .  Unipol agreed in January to buy new shares in  Premafin
Finanziaria SpA (PF) , the holding company controlling Fondiaria. The
purchase will allow Premafin to participate in the 1.1 billion-
euro stock sale announced by Fondiaria on Jan. 30. After the
capital increase, Unipol, Premafin, Fondiaria and its unit
 Milano Assicurazioni SpA (MI)  will merge to challenge Italy’s biggest
insurer,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA. (G)   Merged Group  Unipol, based in Bologna, forecast the new entity will have
a combined ratio, or claims and expenses as a percentage of
premiums, of 93 percent at the end of 2015, indicating
profitable underwriting. Non-life gross written premiums may
rise to 10.5 billion euros, the company said March 15.  It’s forecasting net income of 970 million euros in 2015.
“Post-merger targets presented by Unipol look reasonable, even
if there are risks linked to cost synergies and network
integration” Faccio said. “If the due diligence doesn’t
surprise, the targets will be reachable. Still, Fondiaria’s
track record is not the best.”  Fondiaria, which gets most of its revenue from property and
casualty businesses, is suffering from rising claims and tougher
competition at home. The insurer posted a net loss of 852.7
million euros last year, after it wrote down the value of non-
strategic assets and real estate by 657 million euros.  Capital Level  “Fondiaria urgently needs to increase its capital level as
it’s the only Italian insurer with a solvency margin below the
regulatory threshold,” Faccio said. Fitch will “probably”
upgrade Fondiaria by one level if the share sale is completed,
while it would consider downgrading the company if it fails.  The rating outlook for the country’s insurance industry
remains negative because of credit risk associated with Italian
 sovereign debt , according to Fitch. “We still see a dangerous
situation and with government bond spreads staying at current
levels we cannot say that the crisis is over,” Faccio said.  A rebound in Italian government bond prices in the first
quarter will positively affect the earnings of Italian insurers,
he said. “That’s not enough to improve the ratings.”  Editors: Dan Liefgreen, Marco Bertacche  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
James Ludden at   jludden@bloomberg.net  