-- JetBlue Pilot’s Hearing Postponed After Testing Ordered
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-04-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/jetblue-pilot-s-hearing-postponed-after-testing-ordered.html
Clayton Osbon, the  JetBlue Airways
Corp. (JBLU)  pilot ordered by a judge to undergo a psychiatric
examination after his behavior led to the diversion of his
flight, won’t have a detention hearing on April 9.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Clinton Averitte in Amarillo,  Texas ,
yesterday granted Osbon’s request to waive the April 9 hearing,
which Christy Lee Drake, the prosecutor on the case, said the
U.S. doesn’t oppose.  Osbon, 49, was taken into custody March 27 after his co-
pilot cut short a Las Vegas-bound flight to make an emergency
landing in Amarillo, Texas. Osbon, who was evaluated at
Northwest Texas Healthcare System, was charged with interfering
with a flight crew and sent to the county jail in Amarillo.  He was ordered on April 4 to undergo a psychiatric
examination at a federal medical facility to determine if he’s
suffering from mental illness and not competent to stand trial.
Prosecutors said the exam was required to determine whether
Osbon was “legally insane” at the time of his offense.  “We’ll wait to see what happens” after Osbon’s
evaluation, Drake said yesterday in a phone interview. Drake
said she didn’t know what federal medical facility he’ll be
taken to. Osbon must be indicted before a grand jury within 30
days of April 2, his first court appearance, she said.  ‘Unable to Understand’  U.S. District Judge Mary Lou Robinson said the exam was
necessary to determine whether Osbon is “unable to understand
the nature and consequences of the proceedings against him.”  During the flight, Osbon began reciting numbers and talking
about “sins in  Las Vegas ,” according to prosecutors. The co-
pilot locked him out of the flight deck and passengers subdued
him as he banged on the cockpit door, prayed and talked about
“Jesus, Sept. 11, Iraq, Iran and terrorists,” prosecutors
said.  If convicted, Osbon could be sentenced to as long as 20
years in prison and fined $250,000, according to U.S. Attorney
Sarah R. Saldana in  Dallas . At the April 2 court appearance,
Osbon told a magistrate he understood the accusations he faced.  Osbon has been suspended from duty pending the conclusion
of an investigation, according to New York-based JetBlue.  The case is U.S. v. Osbon, 2:12-MJ-22, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Amarillo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  