-- Jewelers in India End Three-Week Strike on Minister Assurance
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2012-04-06T09:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/jewelers-in-india-end-three-week-strike-on-minister-assurance.html
Jewelers in  India , the biggest
bullion buyer, suspended the longest nationwide strike after the
government assured them it will consider their concerns on a tax
on non-branded gold ornaments.  The 21-day strike ended after their meeting with Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee , who imposed a 1 percent levy for non-
branded jewelery for the first time and doubled  import duties  on
gold bars, coins and platinum in his March 16 budget speech,
according to an e-mailed statement from the All India Gems &
Jewellery Trade Federation.  “The minister assured that he would consider the demand
for the rollback of excise duty favorably,” Bachhraj Bamalwa,
chairman of the trade body, told reporters in New Delhi after
meeting with Mukherjee. The strike cost the industry about 200
billion rupees ($4 billion) in lost revenue, he said.  The end to the shutdown may boost Indian imports, helping
sustain this year’s 4.5 percent rally in gold prices. Bullion is
rising for a 12th year as  Europe ’s debt crisis and concerns that
global economic growth may slow fueled demand for a protection
of wealth.  Mukherjee raised the import tax on gold for a second time
this year as part of steps to curb the  current account-deficit ,
partly stoked by record bullion purchases. He raised the import
duty on gold bars and coins and platinum to 4 percent from 2
percent, after doubling the tax in January.  A levy on gold ore, concentrate and so-called dore bars for
refining will be doubled to 2 percent and an excise tax on
refined gold will climb to 3 percent from 1.5 percent, he said.  India’s current-account deficit widened to $19.6 billion in
the three months to Dec. 31 from a revised $18.4 billion in the
prior quarter, the central bank said in a report on March 30.
That’s the widest quarterly gap since at least 1949, data
compiled by Bloomberg show, threatening to revive pressure on
the rupee. The currency fell 16 percent last year.  Gold for immediate delivery rose 0.2 percent to $1,633.85
an ounce today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  