-- Jobs Growth Is No Excuse to Kill the Recovery
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-06T13:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/jobs-growth-is-no-excuse-to-kill-the-recovery.html
     April 6 (Bloomberg) - Today’s disappointing jobs report
highlights an important point about the state of the U.S.
recovery: It’s not so strong that the country’s politicians
couldn’t kill it off.  Almost three years after it hit bottom in mid-2009, the
economy has recently been showing signs of entering a virtuous
cycle in which rising employment,  consumer spending  and business
activity reinforce one another. Even with March’s relatively
meager 120,000-job increase in nonfarm payrolls, the three-month
average gain comes to about 212,000. That’s more than enough to
make a dent in the  unemployment  rate, which fell to 8.2 percent
in March from 8.3 percent in February.  If the strengthening trend persists, the U.S., which
accounts for about a fifth of the planet’s economic activity,
could become an engine of growth just in time to help offset a
slowing in the rest of the world. Economists expect the euro
area to suffer a recession this year as austerity measures bite.
 China ’s government has lowered its growth target as it seeks to
engineer a soft landing.  Still, as the latest employment report demonstrates, the
U.S. isn’t out of the woods. We’ve seen false dawns before, and
the recovery remains weak. The job growth in March fell far
short of expectations, and a decline in the number of people
looking for work drove the drop in the  unemployment rate .
Forecasters surveyed by Bloomberg News expect the economy to
grow at an inflation-adjusted rate of just 2.2 percent this year
and 2.4 percent in 2013, below what most consider to be its
long-term potential. Payroll employment, at about 133 million,
remains about 5 million short of its peak in December 2007.  Man-Made Obstacles  More important, the economy faces some daunting man-made
obstacles. Under current law, the expiration of Bush-era tax
cuts at the end of this year will add about $4 trillion to
Americans’ tax bills over 10 years. An additional $1.2 trillion
in automatic spending cuts could take effect as a result of last
year’s debt-ceiling deal. At the same time, stimulus measures
such as payroll-tax breaks and extended  unemployment benefits 
are scheduled to end.  Much larger tax increases and spending cuts will eventually
be needed to get the U.S. government’s long-term finances under
control. But with the economy already operating well below
capacity, and with the  Federal Reserve ’s ammunition running low,
the risks of making such moves now are skewed heavily to the
downside. A renewed slump could permanently stunt the economy’s
growth as despondent businesses failed to invest in the future
and the long-term unemployed dropped out of the  labor force 
permanently.  By contrast, putting off the cuts -- or even engaging in
more short-term fiscal stimulus -- could be a great investment.
Costs are extremely low: Markets are willing to lend the U.S.
government money for 10 years at an interest rate of only 2.2
percent. Meanwhile, the danger of falling into a spiral of self-
perpetuating high unemployment makes the benefit of any added
job creation particularly large. In a recent  paper , economists
J. Bradford DeLong of the  University of California  at Berkeley
and  Lawrence Summers  of  Harvard University  estimated that in
these unusual times, a temporary boost in  government spending 
would actually reduce the U.S. debt burden, because the added
tax revenue would outweigh the increase in debt-service costs.  We recognize that a new round of stimulus is a political
nonstarter in this election year. At the very least, though,
President Barack Obama and Congress should refrain from doing
exactly the opposite of what is advisable. If they can muster
the responsibility to make a deal before the end of the year
that extends the Bush tax breaks in return for a postponement of
spending cuts, they would greatly increase the recovery’s
chances of survival.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on  Khalid Sheikh Mohammed’s
trial ;  Jonathan Alter  on the  auto bailout ;  Michael Kinsley  on
saving the  dollar bill ; Luigi Zingales on  Fed nominees ;  Amity
Shlaes  on tax policy and  “The Hunger Games” ; Alex Marshall on
 improving U.S. roads .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 