-- Knicks Beat Magic After Van Gundy Says Howard Wants Him Fired
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-06T04:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/knicks-beat-magic-after-van-gundy-says-howard-wants-him-fired.html
Carmelo Anthony  scored 19 points and
the  New York Knicks  defeated  Orlando  96-80 after Magic coach
Stan Van Gundy told reporters that center  Dwight Howard  wants
him fired.  Van Gundy, 52, said before the game at Amway Center in
Orlando that members of management confirmed Howard’s demand.
Howard denied the coach’s assertion.  The Knicks (28-27) hold the eighth and final playoff spot
in the  National Basketball Association ’s Eastern Conference. The
Magic (32-23) slipped to sixth place in the conference by losing
five straight games for the first time since January 2007, six
months before Van Gundy took over the team.  J.R. Smith and Toney Douglas came off the bench to
contribute 15 points each for the Knicks, who had a 56-44
halftime advantage. New York hit 13 of 25 3-point attempts in
the game.  Jason Richardson  scored 16 points for the Magic, and  Glen Davis  added 15 points. Howard was held to eight points and eight
rebounds.  Van Gundy was holding an impromptu news conference before
the game when Howard walked in and embraced the coach, unaware
of what Van Gundy had just said.  “I was told it was true by people in our management,” Van
Gundy said. “So right from the top. I’m the coach right now,
and I’m the coach until they decide I’m not the coach. It’s
12:02 right now. If they want to fire me at 12:05, I’ll go home
and find something to do. I’ll have a good day.”  Howard denied he had requested that Van Gundy be fired.  “Whatever happens at the end of the season is not under my
control,” Howard told reporters yesterday. “Why would I want
Stan to be fired with 12 games left in the season? Who’s going
to be the coach?”  Expiring Contract  Van Gundy’s contract expires at the end of the season.  “I’ll be fine,” Van Gundy said. “I can get another job.
I have money put away, so there’s no concern about  job security 
and there shouldn’t be any real concern about what Dwight wants
right now, quite honestly.”  Last month, ESPN.com reported the team’s management gave
Howard control over the future of General Manager Otis Smith and
Van Gundy if the player agreed not to become a free agent this
season. Howard signed a contract through next season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  