-- Nuri Plans Smart Metering Bids in Scandinavia, Japan
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-04-06T04:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/nuri-plans-smart-metering-bids-in-scandinavia-japan.html
Nuri Telecom Co. (040160) , South Korea’s only
exporter of so-called smart metering systems used in utility
services, is preparing to bid for projects in Scandinavian
countries in July or August to reverse a drop in sales.  Nuri will partner with Norwegian utility Embriq AS and
other companies and is also looking at sales opportunities this
year in  Thailand ,  Japan  and  South Africa , Chief Executive
Officer Cho Song Man said in an interview in  Seoul .  “Bidding procedures in those countries may start in the
second half after being put on hold because of the global
financial crisis,” Cho said. The Seoul-based company aims to
boost overseas sales of advanced metering infrastructure or AMI
to 20 percent of overall sales this year from 6 percent last
year, Cho said.  The company  plans to increase total sales in 2012 by 13
percent to 42.3 billion won ($37 million), and raise operating
profit seven-fold, according to Nuri’s website. Sales dropped 20
percent to 37.2 billion won in 2011 and operating profit halved
to 306 million won as the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe 
delayed projects with overseas utility companies. Also, South
Korea’s government put off a plan to install AMI networks for
residential users to this year from last year.  The stock  has dropped 27 percent this year in Seoul trading
while the country’s benchmark Kospi index has gained 11 percent
as of midday trading today.  Smart Power  Smart meters aim to give users real-time information on
what they are paying for power, gas and water services, which
utilities say will help customers better manage energy use and
reduce bills by shifting consumption to off-peak hours. As the
meters also communicate with the utilities supplying the
services, they can give a more accurate picture of demand.  The meters are part of projects in the U.S., U.K.,  Italy ,
 South Korea  and many other countries to build so-called smart
grids to make electricity supply more efficient in matching
supply with demand and reducing carbon emissions at  power plants .  “Smart metering systems are in the initial stages of
development domestically and as they are Nuri’s main business it
makes sense for them to bolster exports,” said Park Seong Min,
an analyst at Kyobo Securities Co. in Seoul.  Nuri, which says it’s Asia’s biggest smart metering
solution provider measured by orders, was set up in 1992 by Cho,
a former systems engineer with Daewoo Telecom Co.  Global Market  Nuri won its first overseas project in Thailand in 2005 and
has now been involved in AMI projects in 13 countries, according
to the investor documents.  “The global market at present reaches only 5 percent of
potential users,” Cho said. “Within eight years, we believe
the market will grow to reach more than 50 percent of potential
users.”  Cho said Japan may open bidding procedures for energy
management systems at the end of this year and
he plans to form a bidding group with Japanese companies
involved in meter production and trading.  Nuri’s business partners include General Electric Co. in
smart meter production, and Landis+Gyr and  Mitsubishi Electric
Corp. (6503) , according to its handouts to investors.  Cho said Uzbekistan,  Kazakhstan  and other  developing
countries  could also provide business opportunities as their
electricity supply can’t meet demand because of the jump in
sales of consumer electronics appliances.  “The unexpected fast pace of power demand in developing
countries may open up business opportunities for AMI systems,”
Cho said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 