-- Jobs Data Breaks Pattern That Was Boosting Obama Re-Election
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-04-06T14:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/obama-may-get-election-boost-as-economists-see-more-jobs-added.html
A smaller than forecast addition of
120,000 jobs last month broke a pattern that was giving U.S.
voters a growing sense of security and boosting President  Barack Obama  as Republican  Mitt Romney  attacked his economic record.  The Labor Department reported today that employers added
120,000 jobs in March, after an increase of 227,000 the previous
month. It was the fewest jobs added in five months. Unemployment
fell to 8.2 percent, the lowest since January 2009, from 8.3
percent.  Obama said “we welcome” the added jobs and the decline in
the unemployment rate. The economy’s created more than 4 million
private sector jobs in the past two years, more than 600,000 in
the past three months, he said.  “But, it’s clear to every American that there will still
be ups and downs along the way and that we’ve got a lot more
work to do,” the president said at a forum on women and the
economy at the White House.  Romney said Obama has created a “stagnant” employment
market.  “Millions of Americans are paying a high price for
President Obama’s economic policies, and more and more people
are growing so discouraged that they are dropping out of the
 labor force  altogether,” the former Massachusetts governor said
in a statement released by his campaign.  ‘I’m Nervous’  Today’s data showed unemployed workers left the labor force
as Americans worked fewer hours and earned less on average per
week.  “I’m nervous,” said  Jared Bernstein , former chief
economist for Vice President  Joe Biden . The “downside
surprise” may be “payback” for warm weather that boosted job
creation in the early months of 2012, he said.  The chairman of the president’s  Council of Economic
Advisers , Alan Krueger, said “it is important not to read too
much into any one monthly report.” There have been 25 straight
months of job growth in the private sector, he said.  A rise in jobs bolsters household spending, which accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy, even as those households
are threatened by higher gasoline costs.  Regular gasoline  at the
pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.8 cent on April 4 to $3.936,
according to AAA, the biggest U.S. motoring club. Prices have
risen 20 percent this year and are 6.8 percent above a year ago.  Trend Toward Recovery  Still, there are signs the economy is on a trend toward
recovery.  The  unemployment rate  has fallen from 9.1 percent in
August.  Consumer confidence  climbed last week to the highest
level in four years as brighter job prospects and an advancing
 stock market  bolstered Americans’ view of the economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 31.4 in
the period ended April 1, the best reading since March 2008,
from minus 34.7 the prior week. All three of its components, the
economy, personal finances and buying plans, advanced.  The Bloomberg consumer sentiment figures also showed some
good news for Obama’s re-election bid. Democrats’ confidence
rose to minus 25.2, and that of political independents increased
to minus 29.1, both the best since 2007.  “Confidence is critical,” Ellen Hughes-Cromwick, chief
economist at Ford Motor Co., said April 3 on a conference call
with analysts.  Delinquencies Fall  Consumer-loan delinquencies fell in the fourth quarter as
borrowers benefited from improving job and housing markets, the
 American Bankers Association  said yesterday.  Total delinquencies in the 11 loan categories surveyed by
the Washington trade group fell to 2.49 percent of all accounts,
from 2.59 percent in the preceding quarter, the ABA said in its
Consumer Credit Delinquency Bulletin. It marked the first
quarter in eight years that all 11 loan categories fell.  Obama’s presidential rivals have criticized his stewardship
of the economy, which has played a leading role in the
Republican debates. The Republicans haven’t swerved from the
main theme that the unemployment rate remains too high.  The economy has been central to Romney’s presidential
campaign, as he criticizes the Obama administration for failing
to pull the country out of the recession more quickly.  “He points out that he did not cause the recession, and
that’s true,” the Republican front-runner said at an event in
 Milwaukee  on April 2. “But he’s the one we looked to to end the
recession and to lead a recovery, and he didn’t.”  Reagan’s Recovery  Since World War II, no U.S. president has won re-election
with a jobless rate above 6 percent, with the exception of
 Ronald Reagan , who faced 7.2 percent unemployment on Election
Day in 1984.  “Unemployment, he said he’d keep under 8 percent -- itself
a very high level, 8 percent -- he said he’d keep it under 8
percent if we let him borrow $787 billion, and it has not been
under 8 percent since 37 months ago,” Romney said.  The $787 billion refers to the 2009 economic-stimulus
package that Republicans say did little to jump-start the
economy.  The labor market is still weak, so there’s still a case to
be made, Phillip Swagel, a White House economist during
President  George W. Bush ’s administration, said in an interview
before the report.  “There’s a sense that this might be the best we’re going
to see,” he said, with the  unemployment rate  still above 8
percent and an economy growing “maybe about 2.5 percent.”  ‘Not Enough’  “That means jobs growth will continue but moderate,”
Swagel said. “It’s not enough” to reduce the jobless rate.  Swagel said another downturn in  Europe , a surge in  oil
prices , another debt-ceiling showdown in Washington after the
election or some other surprise shock could derail the nation’s
slow recovery.  The  Congressional Budget Office  has predicted 8.9 percent
unemployment for the year, while the  Federal Reserve  has
projected between 8.2 percent and 8.5 percent.  The new report is “certainly disappointing,” said  Chris Rupkey , managing director and chief financial economist at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd in  New York . “The president looked
on much firmer ground talking about recovery in the labor market
and today it’s a little shakier.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  