-- Dodgers’ Bankruptcy Recovery Plan Hinges on $2 Billion Team Sale
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-04-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/los-angeles-dodgers-to-file-amended-bankruptcy-recovery-plan.html
Major League Baseball ’s Los Angeles
Dodgers said creditors will be paid in full and the team is
expected to exit Chapter 11 by April 30 under an amended
reorganization plan.  The plan, filed yesterday in federal  bankruptcy court  in
Wilmington,  Delaware , rests on a $2 billion sale of all the
equity in the team to Guggenheim Baseball LP, the Dodgers said
in a statement today. A hearing to seek court approval of the
amended plan is set for April 13, with the sale to close on or
before April 30, according to court filings.  “By any measure, the plan is a remarkable outcome for the
debtors, their estates, and all parties in interest, especially
taking into account where these cases began,” lawyers for the
team said in a filing.  “When the debtors entered bankruptcy on June 27, 2011,
they did not have enough cash to meet payroll that was due in
three days, and they were embroiled in a bitter dispute with
Major league Baseball.”  Magic Johnson   Basketball Hall of Famer Magic Johnson and a group of
investors that includes Guggenheim Partners Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Walter  won an auction for the team on March 28,
with their bid more than doubling the previous record amount
paid for a major U.S. professional sports franchise.  Johnson’s group includes former Atlanta Braves and
Washington Nationals President Stan Kasten, who will relocate to
Los Angeles and run the Dodgers.  The terms of the plan are supported by “all of the major
constituents” in the case, including MLB,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox
Sports -- which holds the club’s television rights through the
2013 season -- and the official committee of unsecured
creditors, according to the team’s filing.  Creditors are receiving payment in full, meaning they are
“deemed to have voted to accept the plan,” according to
yesterday’s filing.  ‘Substantial Distribution’  The amended plan “provides for the payment of all allowed
claims of creditors in full, includes a substantial distribution
for debtors’ equity interest holder, and provides a solid
foundation for the long-term success of  Los Angeles  Dodgers and
its affiliates,” the company said.  Team owner  Frank McCourt  put the Dodgers into bankruptcy in
June, claiming MLB Commissioner Bud Selig forced the club into a
cash crisis by rejecting a new contract with Fox Sports.  Once under court protection, McCourt lost the support of
Fox when he tried to solicit bids for a new television deal
earlier than allowed under the Fox Sports contract. After
mediation sessions, McCourt settled his dispute with MLB in
November and dropped his effort to sell the television rights
early in January.  As part of the $2.15 billion purchase of the franchise,
parking lots and undeveloped land surrounding Dodger Stadium
were sold for $150 million to a joint venture of McCourt and
affiliates of Guggenheim Baseball Management LLC.  The Dodgers have won six World Series titles, tied for
fifth most in baseball. Five of them came in Los Angeles, where
Duke Snider, Sandy Koufax, Steve Garvey, Fernando Valenzuela and
Kirk Gibson led the team to championships.  The case is In re  Los Angeles Dodgers  LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  