-- Most Emerging Stocks Rise on Taiwan, China Policy Speculation
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-04-06T08:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/most-emerging-stocks-rise-on-taiwan-china-policy-speculation.html
Most emerging-market stocks rose
after  Taiwan  said it may exempt some overseas investors from a
possible capital-gains tax on stock trades and on speculation
 China  will ease monetary policy to bolster economic growth.  KGI Securities Co. rallied by the daily limit after  China
Development Financial Holding Co. (2883)  bid as much as NT$54.6 billion
($1.9 billion) for the brokerage. Taiwanese carriers gained
after the nation’s aviation authority said it’s considering fuel
surcharges on domestic routes. LG Innotek Co. slid 2.7 percent
after Dongbu Securities Co. said its light-emitting diode
business won’t be profitable anytime soon. Chinese lenders
extended losses after Premier Wen Jiabao said China needs to
break a banking “monopoly” of a few big lenders.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added less than 0.1 percent
to 1,037.48 as of 3:50 p.m.  Seoul  time, with 166 companies
rising and 104 stocks falling. Most markets are shut for
holidays. The gauge has declined 0.4 percent this week, headed
for its third straight weekly drop. Taiwan’s Taiex index rose
0.9 percent today, the most in Asia. The  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.2 percent and is up 4.9 percent this year on
expectations the central bank will lower lenders’  reserve
requirements  and cut borrowing costs after tightening monetary
policy in the previous two years to tame inflation.  “Expectations of lower reserve requirements for banks in
China linger on,” said Chu Moon Sung, a Seoul-based  fund
manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which
oversees $28 billion. “With many markets shut, investors are in
a wait-and-see mode especially ahead of the U.S. job market
data.”  Taiwan Rebounds  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has fallen for the past
three weeks amid signs of a slowdown in China and renewed
concerns  Europe  won’t contain its debt crisis. Still, the gauge
has advanced 13 percent this year, outpacing the 9 percent
advance in the MSCI World Index of developed nations.  The gauge of  developing countries  is valued at 10.6 times
estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s earnings
multiple of 12.6 times.  South Korea’s  Kospi index  rose less than 0.1 percent and
Malaysia’s FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index added 0.4 percent.
Markets including India, Thailand and Indonesia are closed
today.  Taiwan’s benchmark index climbed the most since March 22 as
Finance Minister Christina Liu said overseas investors without
offices and direct business operations in Taiwan will be exempt
“in principle” from a capital-gains tax on stock trades that
the government is deliberating.  KGI Bid  The  Taiex (TWSE)  Index yesterday slumped to a two-month low and
the currency weakened after the chairman of the stock exchange
said the island will probably impose a capital-gains tax on
share transactions.  KGI Securities surged 6.6 percent, the most since Jan. 30.
China Development offered NT$5.5 in cash and 1.2 of its own
shares for each share of KGI Securities, valuing the transaction
at NT$16.71 per share, the Taipei-based  company  said in an
exchange filing yesterday after the market closed. That’s 47
percent higher than KGI’s closing price of NT$11.40 in Taipei
yesterday.
      EVA Airways Corp. (2618) , Taiwan’s second-largest carrier, jumped
5.9 percent in Taipei, while  China Airlines Ltd. (2610)  added 4.9
percent. Taiwan’s Civil Aeronautics Administration is
considering introducing a fuel surcharge for domestic flights,
the authority said by e-mail.  Banks Slide  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the biggest
lender, slipped 0.2 percent to 4.29 yuan, while largest rival
Construction Bank declined 1.3 percent to 4.73 yuan.  In Seoul,  LG Chem Ltd. (051910)  advanced 2.6 percent as investors
bet the biggest South Korean chemicals maker’s earnings recovery
will accelerate this quarter.  Second-quarter operating income may rise 38 percent from
the previous quarter to 775.8 billion won ($687 million),
according to Tong Yang Securities Inc. That compares with an
estimated 12 percent profit gain in the first quarter, the
brokerage said.  LG Innotek slid to its lowest level since Feb. 28 after
Dongbu Securities Co. said the company’s LED business is
unlikely to swing to profit this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  