-- TPG Capital Said to Plan Bid for Japanese Chipmaker Elpida
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-04-06T08:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/tpg-capital-said-to-plan-bid-for-japanese-chipmaker-elpida-1-.html
TPG Capital plans to bid for  Elpida
Memory Inc (6665) ., the Japanese memory-chip maker that filed for
 bankruptcy protection , a person familiar with the matter said.  The person, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public, declined to comment on an offer
amount. An Elpida spokesman in  Tokyo  and Tim Payne, an external
spokesman for TPG in  Hong Kong , didn’t return phone calls
seeking comment.  Gaining control of Tokyo-based  Elpida (6665) , which was bailed out
by the Japanese government and banks in 2009, will give the
buyer access to 12 percent of the global market for dynamic
random access memory, or DRAM chips, used in computers.  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , the world’s second-largest maker of such
semiconductors, has also submitted an initial proposal for
Elpida, which was delisted from the stock market last month.  TPG and  China ’s  Hony Capital Ltd. (HONYCZ)  are preparing to make a
joint bid for Elpida, the Nikkei reported today, without citing
anyone. Hony Capital Chief Executive John Zhao didn’t
immediately respond to queries seeking comment.  Boise, Idaho-based  Micron Inc. (MU)  has been in talks with
Elpida since the end of last year and is considered a candidate
to buy the Japanese chipmaker, the Nikkei newspaper reported on
March 30, without saying where it got the information.  Elpida filed for bankruptcy in February with liabilities of
448 billion yen ($5.4 billion) after losing money for five
quarters. Falling chip prices and a stronger yen eroded earnings
at the company, whose customers include  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The Japanese company’s 0.5 percent five-year convertible
note offered in October 2010 was unchanged at 15.5 yen per 100
face value as of 4:46 p.m. in Tokyo, according to Citigroup Inc.
prices.  Defaulting Bonds  DRAM prices plunged to a record low last year after PC
shipments missed analyst forecasts. The price of the benchmark
DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM declined to a record 71 cents in November,
compared with $4.85 on Sept. 1, 2010, amid slowing personal-
computer sales, according to DRAMeXchange, Asia’s biggest spot
market for the chips. The price has since risen over $1.  Hynix, Elpida, and other makers of DRAM chips lost a
combined $14 billion in the past three years, according to
Bloomberg calculations.  Revival Plan  The company gained court approval on March 23 for President
Yukio Sakamoto to lead its revival plan after filing for Japan’s
biggest bankruptcy in two years, which caused a plunge in the
company’s shares and bonds. Elpida plans to submit a
restructuring plan by Aug. 21.  Elpida had said it defaulted on six bonds as they came due
for redemption Feb. 27, according to a company statement. The
face value of the bonds totaled 138 billion yen, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The chipmaker was created through the 1999 merger of the
memory businesses of  NEC Corp. (6701)  and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)   Toshiba Corp. (6502) 
announced its withdrawal from the DRAM business in 2001 to focus
on making NAND flash memory chips.  Suwon, South Korea-based  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  controlled
45 percent of the DRAM market by value in the third quarter,
according to Englewood, Colorado-based IHS Inc. Hynix held a 22
percent share, followed by Elpida’s 12 percent, the researcher
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  