-- Treasuries Gain After Jobs Increase Falls Below Forecasts
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-04-06T12:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/treasuries-gain-after-jobs-increase-falls-below-forecasts.html
Treasuries rose after a government
report showed the U.S. added fewer jobs than forecast last
month, raising speculation the  Federal Reserve  will need to
provide more monetary stimulus to sustain the economic recovery.  U.S.  10-year notes  extended a weekly gain as employers
added 120,000 jobs in March and the jobless rate fell to 8.2
percent. Treasuries gained this week amid renewed speculation
that the European debt crisis is worsening as rising borrowing
costs make it more difficult to finance budget deficits in
nations such as Spain.  “Concerns of a slowdown as we enter the middle part of the
year are being increasingly validated, and that is a positive
for Treasuries,”  Carl Lantz , head of interest-rate strategy in
New York at Credit Suisse AG, one of 21 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed, said before the report. “This raises the
likelihood that the Fed will move into an easing mode.”  The benchmark 10-year note  yield  fell eight basis points,
or 0.08 percentage point, to 2.10 percent at 8:35 a.m. in  New
York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The increase in payrolls, the fewest in five months,
followed a revised 240,000 gain in February that was bigger than
first estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The March increase was less than the most
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, in which the
median estimate called for a 205,000 rise. Unemployment fell to
the lowest since January 2009, from 8.3 percent.  The 10-year yield rose 10 basis points to 1.92 percent Feb.
3 after Labor Department data showed the economy added 200,000
jobs, 60,000 more than the consensus forecast. The yield fell 14
basis points to 1.99 percent on Sept. 2 after the government
said there had been no job growth in August, compared with a
forecast for a gain of 68,000 positions.  ‘Additional Stimulus’  Even as economic data has suggested increasing strength in
the economy, investors continue to price in some probability
that the Fed may initiate a third round of asset purchases amid
signs that the pace of the recovery remains subject to risks,
including rising oil prices and continued turmoil in  Europe .  “A couple of members indicated that the initiation of
additional stimulus could become necessary if the economy lost
momentum or if inflation seemed likely to remain below” 2
percent, according to minutes of the Federal Open Market
Committee March 13 meeting released April 3. That contrasts with
the assessment at the January meeting, at which some Fed
officials saw current conditions warranting additional action
“before long.”  ‘Extreme Difficulty’  Yields fell earlier in the week as Spain’s borrowing costs
climbed as the yield on the country’s 10-year bonds gained 13
basis points to 5.82 percent. The yield difference, or  spread ,
between Spanish 10-year securities and similar-maturity German
bunds rose to more than 400 basis points for the first time
since Dec. 12.  Spain , the euro region’s fourth-largest economy, is in
“extreme difficulty,” Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said April
4, raising the likelihood of a bailout for the second time this
week. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said April 4 that the economic
outlook remained subject to “downside risks.”  Ten-year yields will increase to 2.51 percent by year-end,
according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg survey of banks
and securities companies, with the most recent projections given
the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  