-- Treasuries Snap Gain as Economists Predict Jobs Gains
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-04-06T11:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/treasuries-snap-gain-as-economists-predict-jobs-gains.html
Treasuries snapped a two-day gain
before a government report forecast to show American employers
added more than 200,000 jobs for a fourth month.  U.S. sovereign debt has handed investors a 1.1 percent loss
this year while the nation’s corporate bonds rallied 3 percent
as the economy showed signs of improvement, based on Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. Benchmark 10-year yields, which
move inversely to the price, have climbed about half a
percentage point from the record low set in September. There
will be a “modest increase” in bond rates for the rest of
2012, according to  Charles Schwab  Corp.  “This is the first step in a gradual trend up for yields
over the next couple of years,” said Marc Fovinci, who helps
oversee $3 billion as head of fixed income at Ferguson Wellman
Capital Management Inc. in  Portland ,  Oregon . “The labor market
has firmed up.”  Ten-year notes  yields  were little changed at 2.19 percent
at 7:41 a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 2 percent note due in February 2022 was little
changed at 98 11/32. The record low yield was 1.67 percent on
Sept. 23, versus the average of 3.86 percent for the past
decade.  Fovinci said he plans to use the money from maturing
Treasuries in his portfolio to buy government debt due in less
than two years, favoring short-term securities that will fall
the least in price if yields rise.  Boosting Corporate Holdings  Ferguson Wellman added to its holdings of corporate bonds
this week, he said. It bought the debt of  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the
world’s largest home-improvement retailer, and Simon Property
Group Inc., the biggest real estate company, he said.  The Bank of America index of U.S. corporate debt yields
2.80 percentage points more than Treasuries. The spread was as
narrow as 2.69 percentage points on March 20, versus 3.95
percentage points six months ago.  Japan ’s 10-year yields fell as low as 0.975 percent, the
least since March 13.  Hiring in the U.S. increased by 205,000 in March after
rising by 227,000 in February, according to the median
projection of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
 jobless rate  probably held at a three-year low of 8.3 percent,
the survey showed.  Schwab Forecast  “ Interest rates  will continue a modest increase over the
rest of this year,” Charles Schwab, which is based in  San
Francisco  and manages $199 billion, said in a  report  on its
website yesterday. “We look forward to the time when rates
begin to move up a bit, actually, because it’ll mean that the
economy is healthier,”  Rob Williams , the director of income
planning, and Kathy A. Jones, the fixed-income strategist, wrote
in the note.  Treasuries were scheduled to close today in Japan for Good
Friday and didn’t open in the U.K., based on  recommendations 
from the New York-based Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association. Trading will close at noon in New York.  Loss of Momentum?  The U.S. economic recovery may lose momentum as the  Federal
Reserve  and the government withdraw support, said Hideo Shimomura, who helps oversee the equivalent of $73 billion in
 Tokyo  as chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management
Co., which is part of Japan’s largest publicly traded bank.  The minutes of the Fed’s latest meeting issued this week
showed policy makers see the improving economy reducing the need
for new stimulus even as they keep their plan to hold borrowing
costs near zero at least through late 2014. Tax reductions
enacted by former President  George W. Bush  are scheduled to
expire at the end of 2012, and $1 trillion in automatic cuts in
 government spending  will begin in January.  “Yields will decline,” Shimomura said. “Markets are
fearful of lost stimulus.”  Ten-year rates will be less than 2 percent at year-end, he
said.  Treasuries advanced for a second day yesterday as
speculation that the euro region’s sovereign-debt crisis is
worsening spurred demand for the safest assets.  France  sold 4.32 billion euros ($5.64 billion) of 10-year
debt at an average yield of 2.98 percent, more than the 2.91
percent paid at the last auction on March 1. Borrowing costs for
5- and 15-year debt also rose, while they fell for the 30-year
bonds.  Ten-year Treasuries  yield  45 basis points more than same-
maturity debt in  Germany , reflecting demand for bunds because of
the region’s sovereign crisis. The gap widened to 49 basis
points on April 3, the most since January 2011.  Spain Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said April 4 that his
nation’s economic situation is one of “extreme difficulty.”  Investors betting on Treasuries are in the minority.  Ten-year yields will increase to 2.51 percent by year-end,
according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
financial companies, with the most recent projections given the
heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  