-- RIM Executives Depart as BlackBerry Maker Weighs Strategy
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-04-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/rim-executives-depart-as-blackberry-maker-weighs-strategy-shift.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  said two
executives, including Senior Vice President Alan Brenner, are
departing as the maker of the BlackBerry smartphone considers
strategic options that include a sale of the company.  Brenner, senior vice president of the BlackBerry platform,
will depart after a transition period, and Alistair Mitchell, a
vice president for the BlackBerry instant-messaging service, has
already left, Tenille Kennedy, a spokeswoman for Waterloo,
Ontario-based RIM, wrote yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins said last week that
the company is weighing shifts ranging from licensing its
BlackBerry software to an outright sale after recording its
fifth straight quarterly sales shortfall. RIM is refocusing on
business customers and scaling back an emphasis on consumers
after failing to keep legions of users from shifting to Apple
Inc. iPhones and devices that sport Google Inc.’s Android.  Jim Balsillie , RIM’s former co-CEO, resigned from the board
and two other executives departed as part of the overhaul. The
Waterloo, Ontario-based company said also it will discontinue
giving financial forecasts.  Plunging U.S. sales have left RIM’s share of the global
smartphone market at 8.2 percent in the fourth quarter, down
from 14 percent a year earlier, according to research firm IDC.
Apple’s share in that period rose to 24 percent from 16 percent.  RIM was unchanged at $12.67 yesterday at the New York
close. The shares have fallen 77 percent in the past year.  Heins, CEO since January, said on March 29 that a sale
would be considered. Still, it’s not the “main direction” for
RIM’s strategic review, he said. The company is also weighing
whether to set up joint ventures.  Plunging Sales  While former CEOs Balsillie and  Mike Lazaridis , who both
stepped down in January, had assured investors the latest
iteration of its smartphone would deliver a revival, BlackBerry
7 devices with better Web browsing and touch-screen navigation
failed to do so after going on sale last year. Total  sales  last
quarter tumbled 25 percent from a year earlier as  U.S. revenue 
plunged 57 percent, RIM said last week.  U.S. government agencies, oilfield-services provider
 Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and banks like  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  have
either stopped issuing BlackBerrys or let employees use their
own iPhones and Android devices in the past 18 months.  The Wall Street Journal previously reported the departures
of Brenner and Mitchell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  