-- Roche’s Hostile Bid Undervalues Illumina, ISS Says
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2012-04-06T16:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/roche-s-hostile-bid-undervalues-illumina-iss-says.html
Roche Holding AG’s (ROG)  $6.7 billion
hostile takeover bid undervalues  Illumina Inc. (ILMN) , and investors in
the maker of gene-mapping tools should reject Roche’s attempt to
seize control of the board, a proxy-advisory firm said.  The recommendation today by Institutional Shareholder
Services may prompt Roche to increase its offer for San Diego-
based Illumina a second time, said Lionel Melka, co-manager of
Bernheim, Dreyfus & Co.’s  Diva Synergy Fund (DIVASYA) , which holds
Illumina stock.  “This report puts a lot a pressure on Roche to bump again
to get a friendly negotiation going prior to the April 18
meeting” of Illumina shareholders, Melka, whose firm is based
in Paris, said in an e-mail today.  Acquiring Illumina would expand Roche’s offering of
diagnostic products and potentially allow the Swiss company, the
world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs, to better target
medicines to patients. Illumina plans to introduce a machine
capable of scanning a person’s complete DNA within a day by the
end of this year, Illumina said.  Shareholders of Illumina should vote for management’s
nominees to the board of directors at the April 18 annual
meeting, and reject Roche, according to the report by ISS.  “Roche would seem to be an excellent partner for Illumina
as the sequencing industry grows more intertwined with new  drug
development ,” ISS analysts wrote. “The current bid, however,
falls short of providing a compelling enough consideration to
cause Illumina’s shareholders to support Roche’s nominees.”  Rejections  Roche had no immediate comment on the report, Alexander Klauser, a spokesman, said by e-mail. The Basel, Switzerland-
based drugmaker bid $44.50 a share for Illumina in January, and
raised the offer to $51 on March 29. Illumina, which closed
yesterday at $52.33, rejected both proposals as inadequate and
refused to negotiate.  After the first rebuff, Roche proposed that Illumina
shareholders oust four directors at the annual meeting, expand
the board and elect six Roche nominees. That would give the
Swiss company a majority on  the board , clearing the way for
negotiations.  The sweetened offer values Illumina at 34 times this year’s
expected earnings, Roche said in a statement March 29. That’s a
higher valuation than other publicly traded gene-sequencing
companies, such as Carlsbad, California-based  Life Technologies
Corp. (LIFE)  Roche said in a presentation to investors.  Still, no one should value Illumina based on this year’s
profit, ISS said.  “Traditional financial metrics that focus on near-term or
past profitability -- exactly the metrics on which Roche has
focused -- are not particularly useful because they do not
measure the one thing both current shareholders and Roche are
most interested in: the commercial potential of the company’s
disruptive technology, across a number of large addressable
markets,” ISS wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  