-- Romney Turns Weak Jobs Report Into Fresh Attack on Obama
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-04-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/romney-turns-weak-jobs-report-into-fresh-attack-on-obama.html
Republican  Mitt Romney  seized on the
slowest reported jobs growth in five months, saying President
 Barack Obama ’s economic policies have failed and “the
president’s excuses have run out.”  The Labor Department said yesterday that employers added
120,000 jobs in March, after an increase of 227,000 in February.
It was the fewest jobs added in five months. Unemployment fell
to 8.2 percent from 8.3 percent as discouraged workers left the
labor force.  Obama said the added jobs and the decline in the
unemployment rate were “welcome.” The economy’s created more
than 4 million private sector jobs in the past two years, and
more than 600,000 in the past three months, he said.  “But, it’s clear to every American that there will still
be ups and downs along the way and that we’ve got a lot more
work to do,” the president said at the White House.  Romney, seeking to emerge as the likely Republican nominee,
said the report gives Americans new evidence to vote for him
instead of Democrat Obama. The jobs growth was less than the
most pessimistic estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  “Millions of Americans are paying a high price for
President Obama’s economic policies, and more and more people
are growing so discouraged that they are dropping out of the
 labor force  altogether,” the former Massachusetts governor said
in a statement released by his campaign. “It is increasingly
clear the Obama economy is not working and that after three
years in office the president’s excuses have run out.”  ‘Speed Bump’  The chairman of the president’s Council of Economic
Advisers, Alan Krueger, said “it is important not to read too
much into any one monthly report.” There have been 25 straight
months of job growth in the private sector, he said.  Chris Rupkey , managing director and chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd in New York,
called it “a speed bump on the road to recovery.”  “It throws cold water on this idea that, hey, we’ve got
this great recovery,” said  Peter Schiff , chief executive of
Westport, Connecticut-based broker- dealer Euro Pacific Capital
Inc., with more than $3 billion in customer accounts.  S&P 500 futures expiring in June slumped 1.1 percent to
1,374.90 at 11:42 a.m. following the benchmark index’s 0.7
percent weekly loss. All stock exchanges in the U.S., Western
 Europe ,  Canada  and  Brazil  were closed for Good Friday. Yields on
10-year Treasuries fell to 2.05 percent from 2.18 percent.  The evidence of a sluggish recovery heightens a potential
threat to Obama’s re-election campaign, said  Ken Duberstein ,
chief of staff to former President  Ronald Reagan .  ‘Danger for Obama’  “The trajectory has to be firmly in favor of major job
creation and obviously it’s not. That’s the danger for Obama,”
Duberstein said.  Today’s data showed unemployed workers left the labor force
as Americans worked fewer hours and earned less on average per
week. Employment in the retail industry fell 34,000, the biggest
drop since October 2009.  “I’m nervous,” said  Jared Bernstein , former chief
economist for Vice President Joe Biden. The “downside
surprise” may be “payback” for warm weather that boosted  job
creation  in the early months of 2012, he said.  A rise in jobs bolsters household spending, which accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy, even as those households
are threatened by higher gasoline costs.  Regular gasoline  at the
pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.8 cent on April 4 to $3.936,
according to AAA, the biggest U.S. motoring club. Prices have
risen 20 percent this year and are 6.8 percent above a year ago.  Trend Toward Recovery  Still, the big-picture story is of an economy on a trend
toward recovery. Bernstein said average job gains of the past
three months still exceed 200,000, and John Podesta, former
chief of staff to President  Bill Clinton  said, “You can’t live
or die over these one-month figures.”  The  unemployment rate  has fallen from 9.1 percent in
August. Consumer confidence climbed last week to the highest
level in four years as brighter job prospects and an advancing
 stock market  bolstered Americans’ view of the economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 31.4 in
the period ended April 1, the best reading since March 2008,
from minus 34.7 the prior week. All three of its components, the
economy, personal finances and buying plans, advanced.  The Bloomberg consumer sentiment figures also showed some
good news for Obama’s re-election bid. Democrats’ confidence
rose to minus 25.2, and that of political independents increased
to minus 29.1, both the best since 2007.  No ‘Champagne Corks’  “Confidence is critical,” Ellen Hughes-Cromwick, chief
economist at Ford Motor Co., said April 3 on a conference call
with analysts.  Job creation and growth in the economy continues to be
“decent,” Podesta said on Bloomberg Television. “No one’s
going to pop the champagne corks over this report but we
continue to go in the right direction.”  The economy has been central to Romney’s presidential
campaign, as the co-founder of Bain Capital LLC criticizes the
Obama administration for failing to pull the country out of the
recession more quickly.  Obama “points out that he did not cause the recession, and
that’s true,” the Republican front-runner said at an event in
 Milwaukee  on April 2. “But he’s the one we looked to to end the
recession and to lead a recovery, and he didn’t.”  Reagan’s Recovery  Since World War II, no U.S. president has won re-election
with a jobless rate above 6 percent, with the exception of
Republican Reagan, who faced 7.2 percent unemployment on
Election Day in 1984.  “There’s a sense that this might be the best we’re going
to see,” with the  unemployment rate  still above 8 percent and
an economy growing “maybe about 2.5 percent,” said  Phillip Swagel , a White House economist during Republican President
George W. Bush’s administration in an interview before the
report’s release.  “That means jobs growth will continue but moderate,”
Swagel said. “It’s not enough” to reduce the jobless rate.  Swagel said another downturn in Europe, a surge in  oil
prices , another debt-ceiling showdown in  Washington  after the
election or some other surprise shock could derail the recovery.  The Congressional Budget Office has predicted 8.9 percent
unemployment for the year, while the  Federal Reserve  has
projected between 8.2 percent and 8.5 percent.  Chris Rupkey, the managing director and chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd in  New York , said,
“The president looked on much firmer ground talking about
recovery in the labor market and today it’s a little shakier.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  