-- Sobbing Chavez Pleads for Life at Catholic Mass in Home State
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-04-06T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/sobbing-chavez-pleads-for-life-at-catholic-mass-in-home-state.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
wiped tears from his face as he pleaded for life in his fight
against an undisclosed cancer at a Catholic mass in his home
state of Barinas.  Chavez, speaking yesterday at the mass held for his health
and broadcast on state television, said cancer is a “real
threat” that takes many lives and that he has faith that he
will win the fight against the disease.  Chavez, who returned April 4 from Cuba where he underwent a
second round of radiation therapy, said he shed tears when he
felt the hands of his parents, Hugo and Elena, touch him during
the mass. His siblings also attended the service.  “If this was necessary, may it be welcome,” Chavez said,
who wore a white T-shirt under a blue and white track suit.
“But I ask God to give me life, however painful. I can carry
100 crosses, your crown of thorns, but don’t take me yet. I
still have things to do.”  Chavez, who has undergone three operations as part of his
treatment since June, will seek re-election in October in a bid
to extend his 13-year rule until 2019. The government hasn’t
disclosed any succession plans in case Chavez, 57, isn’t healthy
enough to participate in the elections.  He may travel to  Brazil  for medical treatment after having
a reaction to the radiation therapy, Merval Pereira, a columnist
for O Globo newspaper reported yesterday, without saying where
he got the information.  No Trip Planned  A spokeswoman at  Venezuela ’s Information Ministry, who
isn’t authorized to comment, said Chavez didn’t have a trip to
Brazil on his agenda.  Chavez is also having intestinal problems, which might be a
sign the cancer is spreading, Pereira added.  Brazilian and Venezuelan doctors have clashed with Cubans
on the medical team over whether radiation therapy is the
appropriate treatment for Chavez, Nelson Bocaranda, a journalist
who frequently reports developments on the president’s health in
absence of details from the government,  wrote yesterday  on his
blog.  Chavez received a phone call from former Brazilian
President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  on April 3 in which the
Venezuelan leader said he would like to visit Brazil soon to
meet with Lula and President  Dilma Rousseff , Venezuela’s  Foreign
Ministry  said in a statement sent by e-mail.  Chavez said on April 4 his body had no adverse reactions
from the radiation treatment and that all tests showed his
recovery was going well after arriving in Venezuela.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  