-- Spanish Yields Climb After Auction Shakes Faith in ECB Measures
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-04-06T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/spanish-yields-climb-after-auction-shakes-faith-in-ecb-measures.html
Spanish 10-year yields posted their
biggest weekly gain since January as borrowing costs rose at an
auction and Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  admitted the nation’s
economy is in “extreme difficulty.”  Spain’s 10-year bonds dropped for a fourth time in five
weeks as the  International Monetary Fund  said the nation faces
“severe” challenges, stoking concern the euro-region will be
unable to stem its debt crisis. German bunds advanced for a
third week as investors sought the safety of Europe’s benchmark
debt amid concern the  European Central Bank ’s longer-term
refinancing operations are proving insufficient to end the
turmoil. German two-year yields fell to a record.  “The most notable development this week was the very poor
performance of Spain in the wake of a soft set of auction
results,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-income
strategist at Rabobank International in  London . “Significant
pressure saw Spanish 10-year yields reach a new post-LTRO high,
underpinning concern that the positive effects of the ECB’s
aggressive liquidity provisioning are waning and giving way to
speculation that contagion risks are returning.”  The yield on Spanish 10-year bonds climbed 40 basis points
to 5.75 percent for the week at 4:25 p.m. London time yesterday
in a holiday-shortened week. The 5.85 percent bond due January
2022 changed hands at 100.71 percent of face value. The
additional yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year bonds
instead of similar-maturity bunds jumped to as much as 410 basis
points, the widest since Nov. 30.  Bund Yields  German 10-year bund yields fell six basis points to 1.73
percent. The  five-year yield  slid to 0.711 percent, the least
since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1990.  The two-year yield touched 0.13 percent, also the lowest
since 1990.  Spain  sold 2.59 billion euros ($3.38 billion) of bonds,
just above the minimum amount it planned for the auction on
April 4.  Spanish 10-year yields yesterday rose to the highest level
since the ECB started providing three-year loans in December to
stem the turmoil. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the euro-
region’s economic outlook remains subject to “downside risks.”  Germany is scheduled to sell 5 billion euros of 10-year
bunds on April 11. Italy plans to auction treasury bills the
same day, as well as notes and bonds on April 12.  “In light of the Spanish auction results, focus will be on
next week’s Italian and German supply,” said  Peter Chatwell , a
fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank in London.  European government bond trading resumes on April 10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 