-- Stenson’s Masters Birthday Round Ends With Record-Tying Blunder
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-06T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/stenson-s-masters-birthday-round-ends-with-record-tying-blunder.html
Henrik Stenson spent much of the
opening round at the  Masters Tournament  atop the leaderboard
before falling apart at the 18th hole, where he hit his tee shot
into the trees and walked off with a quadruple-bogey 8.  Stenson’s 36th birthday had started much more favorably at
Augusta National Golf Club, where he played the first 10 holes
in 6 under par to open a four-stroke advantage. It was a drastic
change of fortune for the Swede, who had started the previous
two Masters with scores of 83 and 80 -- a combined 19 strokes
over par.  Stenson was still in the lead at 5 under yesterday before
his round unraveled by matching the worst score at the closing
hole in Masters history. Now tied for 14th place at 1 under par,
he enters today’s second round four shots behind leader  Lee Westwood  at the opening major championship of the golf season.  “After 11 I didn’t hit one fairway off the tee and that’s
obviously going to cost you at some point,” said Stenson, the
2009 Players Championship winner who entered the tournament
ranked 171st in the Official World Ranking. “I didn’t expect it
to cost as much as it did on 18.”  Stenson, who missed the cut at the Masters in 2010 and
2011, hit his drive into the trees along the right side of the
18th hole. His second shot didn’t reach the fairway and his
third, off pine straw, was almost topped. Stenson’s fourth shot
flew over the green, his chip came up short in the fringe and
his sixth shot rolled about four feet past the cup.  When Stenson missed the next putt, he became the seventh
golfer to shoot an 8 at the 18th hole in the Masters. Camilo Villegas was the last to do it in 2007.  None of the other 94 players in the tournament shot worse
than a bogey 5 on the 18th hole yesterday.  “That’s the difficult part here -- accepting your mistakes
and even playing for double bogey,” said Stenson, who with a 71
matched his best score in 19 career Masters rounds. “That’s
when this course really bites back. It can really grab you and I
sure got my bit of it on 18.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  