-- U.S. Concerned With Malawi Succession After President Dies
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   F r a n k   J o m o
-- 2012-04-06T17:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/u-s-concerned-with-malawi-succession-after-president-dies-1-.html
The U.S. said it is concerned about
the delay in transferring power to Malawi’s vice president after
the death of President Bingu wa Mutharika.  The U.S. and  Kenya  expressed condolences after the 78-year-
old president died from a heart attack yesterday, according to
e-mailed statements. Mutharika’s spokesman, Hetherwick Ntaba,
declined today to comment about reports of his death. Vice
President Joyce Banda called for constitutional order in
comments broadcast on Zodiak, a Lilongwe-based private
television station.  “Malawi’s constitution lays out a clear path for
succession and we expect it to be observed,” Johnnie Carson,
U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for  Africa , said in a
statement. “We are concerned about the delay in the transfer of
power. We trust that the vice president who is next in line will
be sworn in shortly.”  Mutharika was flown to a Johannesburg hospital yesterday,
Banda said earlier today. The government is waiting to receive
an update from the South African government on Mutharika’s
health, she said.  Mutharika won a second term in office in the southern
African nation after a 2009 election. Banda was dismissed from
the ruling  Democratic Progressive Party  in 2010 for allegedly
undermining power within the party, London-based Control Risks
said on its website today.  “The ruling party will use the coming days to regroup and
explore ways in which to ensure that the president’s brother
assumes the presidency,” according to Control Risks, which said
the DPP may push for early elections. Peter Mutharika was
nominated by the DPP to run in a 2014 election, the risk
analysis group said.  -- With assistance by Brian Latham in Harare,  Zimbabwe . Editors:
Emily Bowers, Dick Schumacher  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Latham in in Harare at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 