-- Yale’s Faculty Passes Rights Resolution on Singapore Campus
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-04-06T14:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-06/yale-s-faculty-approves-rights-resolution-for-singapore-campus.html
     April 6 (Bloomberg) --Yale University professors approved a
resolution urging that a planned joint campus with the  National
University  of  Singapore  respect and support human rights and
political freedom.  Yale, one of the world’s wealthiest universities, is
preparing to open the overseas campus, the first in its 300-year
history, next year. About 200 faculty members of the New Haven,
Connecticut-based college attended the meeting late yesterday,
Yale said in an e-mailed statement.  Professors have expressed concern about human rights in
Singapore and the faculty’s exclusion from the planning of the
venture. Singapore’s government censors the media and uses the
courts to silence criticism of the regime,  according  to  Human
Rights Watch , a New York-based group.  New York University  and
Duke University are among other U.S. colleges developing
campuses in East Asia.  “This is a great day for Yale,” Christopher Miller, a
professor of African-American studies and French, said in an e-
mail after the vote. The resolution was approved after a weaker
version of it that he called “pablum” was defeated.  Yale-NUS College is scheduled to open in August 2013 with
150 undergraduate students and will grow to about 1,000,
according to Yale. Its board includes  Richard Levin , Yale’s
president, and members appointed by both Yale and NUS. Last
year, Levin said he was confident that Yale’s faculty in
Singapore could teach and publish without restrictions.  Levin Comment  “I value the engagement of my colleagues and their
commitment to important principles, even though I opposed the
resolution because it did not capture the mutual respect that
has characterized the Yale-NUS collaboration from the
beginning,” Levin, who attended last night’s meeting, said in
the statement.  Yale, a member of the Ivy League of eight private U.S.
universities, was founded in 1701. As of June 30, 2011, the
school’s $19.4 billion endowment was second only to  Harvard
University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , according to an  annual
report  from the National Association of College and University
Business Officers and the Commonfund Institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  