-- 
T-Mobile Customer Losses Seen Tripling as AT&T Deal Review Drags Out: Tech

-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-10-07T20:55:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/t-mobile-client-losses-seen-tripling-on-at-t-deal-review-tech.html
T-Mobile USA , the wireless company
 AT&T Inc. (T)  is trying to acquire, may lose three times the number
of contract subscribers this year as in 2010 as the U.S. Justice
Department’s attempt to stop the deal is hampering the company’s
ability to cut prices and creating concerns among users.  The fourth-largest U.S. wireless operator will see the
number of customers on monthly contracts decline by about 1.2
million, compared with a drop of 390,000 the year before,
according to the average estimate of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. That would give the company 33.5 million total
customers and 25.2 million contract subscribers by year’s end.  T-Mobile’s market share losses are being exacerbated
because it’s refraining from the aggressive price cuts it has
used in the past, said  Craig Moffett , an analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. Though price cuts have helped the company
attract customers in the past, they may now aid the  Justice
Department  in making its case T-Mobile should remain independent
because it helps suppress prices for consumers, he said.  “Cutting prices at this point would be very difficult
because the DOJ has said their strategic importance stems from
their role as a price cutter,” said Moffett.  The Justice Department sued in August to block AT&T’s
proposed $39 billion takeover of T-Mobile, a unit of  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) , saying that such a deal would “remove a significant
competitive force from the market.” AT&T said in a response
last month that the deal would not inhibit competition and would
allow the combined companies to offer high-speed wireless
services more rapidly and broadly.  Revamping Stores  T-Mobile spokesman David Henderson declined to comment on
the company’s pricing plans. Henderson said AT&T has promised to
honor T-Mobile’s rate plans after the merger is completed.  The loss of 1.2 million contract, or postpaid, subscribers
is based on estimates from analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein, UBS
AG,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  RBC Capital Markets , Hudson Square
Research and Robert W. Baird & Co. The highest estimated loss is
1.39 million subscribers and the lowest is 965,000.  In the past, when T-Mobile wanted to draw customers, it
would offer promotions like $40 a month for 1,000 minutes or
one-day specials where every phone was free with a new contract,
said  Roger Entner , an analyst with Recon Analytics LLC. Without
such deals, T-Mobile will struggle, especially because the
company’s future is uncertain, he said.  “T-Mobile is already in a difficult spot from a consumer
perspective,” Entner said in an interview. “People will ask
themselves, ‘Am I really going to sign a two-year contract with
a company that may be on life support if the deal doesn’t go
through?’”  Advertising and Stores  T-Mobile is likely to gain prepaid customers, or those who
pay month-to-month, this year, in part through offers such as a
$30 a month plan for unlimited text messaging and Web access
through  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   Still, such customers, who don’t agree to long-term
contracts, are less profitable than contract customers and T-
Mobile is unlikely to attract enough of them to boost the total
number of customers, according to Nick Lyall, an analyst with
UBS. He estimates the company will lose a net 250,000
subscribers, including prepaid and contract customers, this
year, compared with 56,000 last year.  T-Mobile, which also will be the only major U.S. carrier
without  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone after  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  begins
selling the device this month, is investing in marketing and
store improvements. The company spent $115 million in the second
quarter, compared with $111 million in the first, according to
Kantar Media, a company that analyzes ad spending. In the same
period, AT&T decreased spending on wireless ads to $356 million
from $468 million, Kantar said.  “Suddenly you’re seeing T-Mobile advertising everywhere
you look,” said Moffett.  ‘Hand-Tied’  Last week, T-Mobile also said it was remodeling nearly 400
stores in an effort to boost sales and improve the customer
experience. The first remodeled stores opened in Boston and
 Washington  this week, the company said.  T-Mobile does have wireless service plans that are less
expensive than its largest rivals. In some of its major markets,
T-Mobile, for example, charges $80 a month for its unlimited
data, text and calling plan, while AT&T gets about $115 for a
comparable offering. Still, T-Mobile may not be as aggressive
with its pricing as it has been in the past, said Michael Cote,
whose consulting firm Cote Collaborative Inc. has advised U.S.
handset makers and wireless operators.  “They’re a bit hand-tied on pricing because they need to
show the DOJ that the pricing gap isn’t that big,” Cote said in
an interview.  AT&T rose 3 cents to $28.44 at the close in  New York  and
has dropped 3.2 percent this year. Deutsche Telekom lost 17
cents to 9.07 euros in Frankfurt trading and has lost 6.1
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net 
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  