-- 
Stocks Tumble; Wealthy Keep Shopping

-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 
2011-10-07T13:48:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/-x-fluents-at-saks-defy-turbulence-to-buoy-luxury-sales-retail.html
When stock markets tumble, wealthy
U.S. shoppers typically cut back their visits to such luxury
emporiums as  Saks Inc. (SKS)  and  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  Yet even as the
markets have seesawed, they’ve kept right on spending.  Exhibit A: Saks and Nordstrom yesterday reported September
sales that exceeded analysts’ estimates, while luxury retailers
as a whole outpaced all other segments except gasoline-selling
wholesale clubs.  Affluent Americans aged 24 to 49 who have a yen for high
living and bling are helping drive luxury sales, says Unity
Marketing, which conducts quarterly shopper surveys. One cohort,
called the “X-Fluents” -- for “extremely affluent” -- are
responsible for 23 percent of luxury sales in the U.S., up from
18 percent in 2007, the Stevens, Pennsylvania-based firm said in
a Sept. 14 client presentation it provided to Bloomberg News.  “The U.S. marketplace is more concentrated among young
people,” said Unity President Pam Danziger. “They are more
predisposed to luxury indulgence and represent more promising
targets to luxury brands.”  X-Fluents were out in force again last month, she said.  Another group that Unity has dubbed “Aspirers” are also
spending more on luxury, according to Danziger. They favor
“flash, bling and status” and now account for 18 percent of
luxury sales compared with 16 percent in 2007, she said.  Wealth Effect  In the past, affluent shoppers’ willingness to buy baubles
has been tied to the stock market because its performance
affects the perception of their own wealth -- the so-called
wealth effect. Luxury was the hardest hit retail segment during
the financial meltdown three years ago; sales in the U.S.
plummeted 9.1 percent in 2009, according to the  International
Council of Shopping Centers .  This time is different. Though the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  swung by 4 percentage points daily for an unprecedented
stretch in August and  consumer confidence  stagnated near a two-
year low in September, luxury sales may outpace the overall
industry this holiday season.  Sales at luxury stores open at least a year will climb 7.5
percent, faster than the 6.7 percent increase in November and
December of 2010, predicts the ICSC. Other retail segments will
see slower or unchanged sales growth, the New York-based trade
group said.  Unity, which sells the results of its surveys to such
retailers as Neiman Marcus Group Inc. and  Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , has
been asking luxury shoppers questions since 2002.  Survey Questions  Respondents are asked to agree or disagree with such
statements as: “Luxury is defined by the brand of the product,
so if it isn’t a luxury brand it isn’t a luxury.” Or: “Once
you experience luxury in your life, you never want to go back to
the ordinary.”  The firm devised five personality groups based on income
and spending patterns.  X-Fluents are the most highly indulgent, spending more,
buying the most frequently and dedicated to maintaining a deluxe
lifestyle. Aspirers like to buy and display brands.  “Butterflies” are on average are over 47, mostly female
and enjoy luxury experiences such as travel. “Cocooners,” also
over 47 on average, express their luxury identity by spending on
their nests. “Temperate Pragmatists” -- average age 45 -- have
a take-it-or-leave it attitude toward  luxury goods  and the
lowest income of the five.  X-Fluent Incomes  X-Fluents laid out an average $253,960 on fashion
accessories, cars, home furnishings, travel and dining last
year, up almost a third from 2009. X-Fluents’ income averages
$410,152 before taxes, and they are the youngest, or 42 on
average, with a majority 40 or younger.  Some of the purchases they reported were paid for with
financing and others by tapping net worth. The averages were
pulled upward by the super-wealthy respondents.  The younger luxury consumers are, the more concerned they
are with “bragging rights,” the Affluence Collaborative, a New
York market research firm, wrote in a July research report.  Aspirers have an average age of 43.5 and income of
$303,057, with a minimum of $100,000 to qualify, Unity says.
They have not achieved the level of luxury to which they aspire
and are the most materialistic, according to the firm.  After pulling back for the past two years, aspirational
consumers have returned to the stores to sate their pent-up
demand, says Milton Pedraza, chief executive officer of the
Luxury Institute, a New York-based research firm.  Stock Options   Their wherewithal stems from  job security , bonuses and
stock options, Pedraza said. Many are clustered in financial
services and Silicon Valley, removed from the economic
challenges other Americans face.  “Right now people continue to want luxury,” Neiman Marcus
Chairman Burton Tansky said in an interview.  The Dallas-based retailer has been actively courting
younger, affluent customers, Wanda Gierhart, senior vice
president, said in a Sept. 30 phone interview.  It is updating its contemporary fashion department -- which
sells such brands as Diane von Furstenberg and Alice + Olivia --
to give it “a different edge” than the rest of the store,
Gierhart said. Six months ago, Neiman Marcus for the first time
started allowing sales associates in that department to wear
denim to work.  The retailer shifted “a lot” of its advertising spending
to digital ads this past year, so customers know they can shop
at  Neiman Marcus  whenever and wherever they want to, Gierhart
said. It has ramped up its social media efforts and modernized
the aesthetics of its publications, she said.  ‘Emerging Customer’  The “emerging customer” likes to mix fashions according
to her own taste, Gierhart said, which differs from a more
traditional head-to-toe look in European brands, she said.  A greater concentration of X-Fluents does not necessarily
bode well for the industry long term, Danziger said.  Since the recession, many former luxury buyers have dropped
out and once again view themselves as middle-class, Danziger
said. While many of these had spent significantly less on luxury
goods individually, they together had accounted for a lot of
purchasing, she said.  “Where is the growth going to come from?” she asked.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 