-- 
Ablyazov Loses U.K. Bid to Delay Jail Hearing in BTA Bank Case

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-10-07T17:05:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/ablyazov-loses-u-k-bid-to-delay-jail-hearing-in-bta-bank-case.html
Mukhtar Ablyazov, the ex-chairman of
 Kazakhstan ’s BTA Bank, lost in a bid to delay a U.K. trial over
whether he should be jailed for violating an asset freeze in the
lender’s fraud case against him.  A two-week trial over the bank’s contempt-of-court claim
will start Nov. 28 as previously scheduled, Judge Nigel Teare
ruled today in London. Teare cited bank evidence showing that in
March, land “indirectly owned” by the defendant was pledged to
the Central Bank of Russia in violation of an October 2010
freezing order and without court permission.  “His failure to make such an application before executing
the pledge is disturbing and worrying,” Teare said. “It
certainly fuels the claimant’s fear that unless the contempt
application is brought on promptly, other assets of the
defendant may be disposed of in breach of the freezing order.”  BTA, which defaulted on $12 billion of debt before
restructuring last year, filed a series of U.K. cases against
Ablyazov and Roman Solodchenko, its ex-chief executive officer,
claiming they siphoned money from the bank using fake loans. The
men fled to  London  and deny the claims. Ablyazov also argued he
didn’t violate the freezing order.  BTA asked a judge in May to jail Ablyazov for failing to
fully disclose his assets under the freezing order. The bank
said its forensic accountants uncovered evidence of more than
600 shell companies used by Ablyazov to hide his wealth.  Lawyers for Ablyazov argued he was “burdened” by new
evidence provided by BTA and delayed by a dispute over his stake
in the bank’s Georgian subsidiary allegedly being sold without
his permission, according to the judgment.  License Revoked  Ablyazov’s London-based spokesman, Locksley Ryan, declined
to comment when reached today by phone.  Ablyazov also claimed to have been delayed by problems at
Moscow-based AMT Bank, one of his “most important assets,”
Teare said in his ruling. The Central Bank of  Russia  revoked
AMT’s license in July and a liquidation hearing is scheduled for
Oct. 10 in Moscow, the judge said.  Ablyazov was previously accused of violating the asset
freeze by failing to reveal his ownership in a Moscow skyscraper
project. That dispute prompted the judge in August to place an
estimated $5 billion in Ablyazov’s assets into receivership
under the control of KPMG LLP during the case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  