-- 
Labor Chief Says U.S. Headed in ‘Right Direction’ on Jobs

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-10-07T14:22:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/labor-chief-says-u-s-headed-in-right-direction-on-jobs-1-.html
U.S. Labor Secretary Hilda Solis said
a government report showing employers added 103,000 jobs in
September “is a good indication that we’re going in the right
direction.”  “We need to do more,” Solis said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. The package of tax cuts and spending that
President  Barack Obama  proposed last month “will create,
hopefully, at least another 1 million jobs,” she said.  The labor secretary’s message was reinforced by Katharine Abraham, acting chairwoman of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers, who said the data underscore Obama’s call for
Congress to act on his proposal.  “Clearly, we need faster economic growth to put Americans
back to work,” Abraham said in a statement.  The Labor Department said in a monthly report that
employers added 103,000 jobs, after a revised 57,000 increase in
August. Analysts expected the report to show an increase of
about 60,000 in September, according to a Bloomberg survey.  The jobless rate was unchanged at 9.1 percent.  The figures were released as Obama prepared to meet with
U.S. Senate Democratic leaders on a strategy for getting a vote
as early as next week on a $447 billion jobs plan to boost the
economy and reduce unemployment.  ‘Jolt’ for Economy  “Our economy really needs a jolt right now,” the
president said at a White House press conference yesterday.  “Soup-to-nuts, this is a solid report,” said  Eric Green ,
chief market economist at TD Securities Inc. in  New York , in a
telephone interview. Employers added jobs, household employment
rose for the second straight month and temporary hiring
increased and the number of hours worked increased.  “This is not consistent at all with recession,” Green
said.  John D. Herrmann, senior fixed-income strategist at State
Street Global Markets LLC in Boston, said in an interview after
the report that the  unemployment rate  “will grind lower from
here toward about 8.9 percent” by the end of the year  He said the  U.S. economy  will grow, on average, about 2
percent the second half of the year. Over the next four months,
he said, any recession risk “is mostly due to some kind of
uncertainty in Europe, not domestically here in the U.S.”  The economy must add at least 130,000 jobs each month to
keep up with growth in the adult population, according to  Peter Morici , an economics professor at the Robert H. Smith School of
Business at the University of  Maryland  in  College Park .  The economy must add 13.4 million jobs over the next three
years, or 373,000 each month, to bring unemployment down to 6
percent, he said in an e-mailed statement.  The government’s long-range forecast shows the unemployment
rate will average 9.1 percent this year and 9 percent in 2012,
according to the Office of Management and Budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  