-- 
Adobe to Sell Software Online to Spur More Frequent Buying

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-10-08T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/adobe-to-sell-photoshop-software-online-to-spur-more-frequent-purchases.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  is overhauling the
way it sells its most popular software to spur more frequent
purchases by distributing programs such as Photoshop and
Dreamweaver over the Internet.  Chief Technology Officer Kevin Lynch plans to release what
Adobe calls its Creative Cloud software package early next year.
The company will let customers rent programs on a monthly basis
and share their work across PCs and mobile devices, rather than
make larger purchases that can cost more than $1,000.  The move may help  San Jose , California-based Adobe, the
largest maker of graphic-design software, rely less on biennial
releases to spur sales and record more consistent revenue
growth. The Creative Cloud products make it easier for Adobe
users to share their ideas over the Web, Lynch said in an
interview.  “The reason we’re still here is we’re willing to change,”
Lynch said in his  San Francisco  office, surrounded by the six
computers, two tablets and a massive digital drafting table he
keeps to test new product ideas. “If you look at Adobe software
historically, it’s a person using a computer to make something.
It’s no longer a solo experience. You’re not alone in the
cloud.”  Sharing Work  Creative Cloud will move Adobe tools including the
Photoshop photo-editing software, website-design tool
Dreamweaver and publishing application InDesign to versions that
customers can download for a subscription over the Web. They can
share their work online through a so-called cloud computing
service.  Adobe’s creative-solutions division supplied 45 percent of
the company’s profit last quarter and delivered a gross margin
of 95 percent. The company is facing competition from Apple Inc.
and Microsoft Corp. and an industry shift away from its Flash
technology for Web programming. The new way of selling software
will add another challenge: protecting a gross profit margin
that tops the software sector, according to Bloomberg data.  Computer users will pay less for online versions of Adobe’s
tools than they do for versions that run on Macs and Windows
PCs, said  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS AG in San Francisco.  Pricing to Come  “In the near term, the cloud is dilutive,” said Thill.
Adobe, which plans to set pricing for the cloud computing
version of its design tools in November, may need to keep prices
affordable to attract freelance designers who are typically
tight on cash, he said. Large publishing and advertising
companies that use Adobe tools will continue to buy more
expensive desktop versions because they’ll perform faster.  “Creative professionals don’t have a lot of money,” said
Thill, who recommends buying Adobe shares because they are
inexpensive. “Until the bandwidth gets good enough, no one’s
going to go all the way to the cloud.”  Lynch compares the change from desktops to mobile devices
and Web software to the shift from typed commands to mice 20
years ago. Creative Cloud will include access to six new “Touch
Apps” for creating printed pages and websites using iPads and
other tablet computers. Adobe announced the software earlier
this week at a technical conference in  Los Angeles .  While not as robust as Adobe’s pricey desktop tools, the
Touch Apps may provide enough features to satisfy many users,
said Lynch.  Soul of Photoshop  “It’s not everything Photoshop can do today on the
desktop, but it is the soul of Photoshop,” he said.  Adobe has tinkered with subscription pricing before. Its
Creative Suite 5.5 -- an interim release in April -- let
customers download subscription-priced versions of Photoshop and
Dreamweaver. This time, the company is folding Web, desktop and
tablet versions of its software together under one pricing plan.  Lynch, who joined Adobe through its 2005 acquisition of his
old company, Macromedia Inc., is also reckoning with the
increasing popularity of HTML5 and other industry-standard
software tools for creating video and graphics on the Web. Adobe
got Flash in the deal, and the tools have been widely used.  Now the HTML5 programming language is supplanting them, and
Adobe is adapting by supporting the new technology in more of
its products. One new tool is the development software for
mobile devices called PhoneGap that Adobe gained in its Oct. 3
acquisition of closely held Nitobi Software.  State of Innovation  “We see HTML in a state of great innovation right now,”
said Lynch. “We are absolutely very focused on delivering new
technology to the Web.”  Flash software has been shunned by Apple for its iPhone and
iPad devices, most notably in a  2010 letter   Steve Jobs  wrote and
posted online. The letter criticized Flash as outdated and ill-
suited for the mobile device world.  Microsoft says the new design for Windows 8 won’t allow the
use of Flash in its Internet Explorer 10 Web browser. Another
version of the browser that relies on the older design of
Windows will still run Flash.  Lynch declined to speculate on how relations with Apple
might change in the post-Jobs era.  He preferred to recall his days as an early Mac developer
in the 1980s, and of demonstrating Dreamweaver on stage with
Jobs in 1997.  “He’s a very quick thinker, his patience is very short --
all that is true,”  he said. Happily, the demo went well.  Adobe fell 5 cents to $25.28 yesterday in  New York . The
stock has dropped 18 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  