-- 
Agrokor Says Business Unaffected by Demand to Buy Rest of Belje

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-10-07T06:22:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/agrokor-says-business-unaffected-by-demand-to-buy-rest-of-belje.html
Agrokor d.d. Croatia’s largest
private company, said its business will be unaffected by an
obligation to complete the takeover of its agricultural
facility, Belje d.d.  Hanfa, the Croatian market regulator, yesterday said that
Agrokor must buy the remaining stock of Belje, following the
2005 acquisition of a majority stake. Agrokor, which bought more
Belje shares in 2007, now owns 67 percent of the eastern
Croatian agricultural plant.  “Hanfa’s decision doesn’t present a problem to Agrokor’s
business,” said Agrokor spokeswoman Anja Linic. Agrokor will
also file a complaint to the administrative court in the next 30
days, Linic said today in a statement e-mailed to Bloomberg
News.  The purchase, which may cost Agrokor as much as 100 million
euros ($134 million), may present an obstacle to Agrokor’s plans
to acquire a majority stake in Slovenia’s  Mercator Poslovni
Sistem (MELR)  d.d., said Petar Brkic of Abacus Brokeri d.d.  “This decision probably signals the end of Agrokor’s plan
to take over Mercator,” Brkic said yesterday by phone. “It
affects Agrokor’s stability and the banks that have supported
the plan concerning Mercator will have to take this obligation
into account.”  Agrokor will probably have to offer about 300 kuna per
share, the price of Belje’s stock when Agrokor’s “obligation
originated in 2007,” according to the regulator. Belje’s shares
closed at 70 kuna per share today.  Mercator Interest  Agrokor repeatedly said it is interested in submitting an
offer for a majority stake in Ljubljana-based Mercator, the
region’s largest supermarket chain.  Agrokor has already secured about 700 million euros ($951
million) in a syndicated loan from a group of European banks,
including Deutsche Bank AG, Societe Generale SA, UniCredit SpA,
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, Erste Group Bank AG, Raiffeisen Bank
International AG and UBS AG, the Ljubljana-based newspaper
Finance said on Sept. 28.  Slovenian banks and other Mercator investors in August
appointed ING Bank NV to advise on the sale of just more than 50
percent of Mercator with the process likely to be completed by
the end of the year.  To contact the reporter responsible for the story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for the story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  