-- 
Thailand Starts Rice-Support Program at Prices ‘Way Too High’

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-10-07T07:57:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/thailand-starts-rice-support-program-at-prices-way-too-high-.html
Thailand , the largest rice exporter,
started a government-purchase program for the grain aiming to
boost rural incomes amid criticism from industry executives that
the guaranteed prices are excessive and distort the market.  “This is a very important policy of the government to
boost crop prices and increase rural income,” Prime Minister
Yingluck Shinawatra said at the program’s opening today. The
policy would also help growers to recover from floods, she said.  Yingluck aims to shield the country from a global slowdown
and the nation’s worst floods in half a decade by lifting
incomes of poorer Thais who propelled her party to victory in a
July election. The guaranteed prices to be paid to farmers may
boost export rates and cut Thailand’s share of the global market,
according to a Bloomberg survey of exporters and traders.  The prices the state is paying are equivalent to an export
rate of $800 per ton and are “way too high,” Vichai Sriprasert,
president of Riceland International Ltd., an exporter, said
today. “Government interference with a market mechanism amid a
global economic slowdown is the wrong time to boost prices.”  Under the plan, the government is paying 15,000 baht ($482)
per metric ton for white rice and 20,000 baht per ton for
jasmine rice. That’s as much as 44 percent above local market
rates, according to calculations based on data from the Thai
Rice Mills Association. The export price of 100 percent grade-B
Thai rice, the benchmark for  Asia , has gained 18 percent to $615
per ton since Thailand’s July 3 election.  ‘Make a Living’  The guaranteed prices are “appropriate because they take
into account production costs and profits that are enough for
farmers to make a living,” Yingluck, who took power two months
ago, said yesterday.  The policy has helped to fuel a 26 percent rally in global
food prices in the past year. Costlier food, driving faster
inflation, complicates the challenges facing central bankers as
they seek to sustain the global economic recovery.  “The amount of rice joining the program today isn’t that
much as floods devastated crops,”  Permanent Secretary  for
Commerce Yanyong Phuangrach said. “Total rice purchase under
the program may be less than targeted.”  Floods have swept across Thailand since late July, killing
252 people and damaging almost 10 percent of nation’s rice
production, data from the Department of Disaster Prevention and
Mitigation and the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives show.  Vietnamese Shipments  Exports of rice from Thailand may fall to 8.5 million tons
next year, from an estimated 10.3 million tons in 2011,
according to the United Nations  Food & Agriculture Organization .
 Vietnam , its nearest rival, will ship about 7.3 million tons.  “Exports from Vietnam could come even closer to those of
Thailand, or even match them by 2013,”  Concepcion Calpe , a
senior economist at the FAO, said by phone from  Rome .  The Thai government has said it will spend as much as 410
billion baht on the program between Oct. 7 and Feb. 29. It may
buy about 15 million tons of unmilled rice, Deputy Prime
Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said Oct. 5.  The plan may boost government stockpiles and increase
government control of the rice trade, heightening uncertainty in
the market, Samarendu Mohanty, a senior economist at the
International Rice Research Institute, said on Sept. 30.  Thailand has about 3.3 million rice-farming households and
total planted area of 60 million rai (9.6 million hectares),
according to the farm ministry. The ministry cut its forecast
for production from the main harvest by 12 percent to 22.73
million tons because of the floods.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  