-- 
Airbus Hunts for Maintenance Acquisition in Push for Services

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-10-07T11:51:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/airbus-hunts-for-maintenance-acquisition-in-push-for-services.html
Airbus SAS is working on a takeover
or partnership in aircraft maintenance to broaden its revenue
base and prepare for the introduction of composite planes that
require more sophisticated repairs, the head of strategy said.  Airbus is in discussions with several potential targets and
may announce an accord in the field of maintenance in coming
months, Airbus Executive Vice President Christian Scherer said
in an interview in Toulouse, southern  France , where the
manufacturer is based.  “Diversification is in the cards for Airbus,” said
Scherer. “The main purpose is to dampen the cyclicality of
sometimes-violent shifts in the core manufacturing business.”  Airbus now draws less than 1 percent of sales from
services, an area the European company wants to contribute 20
percent over time. The focus on maintenance coincides with the
launch of the A350 wide-body jet by late 2013, built largely
from lightweight materials that require more complex repairs
than the metal planes that have been in service for decades.  Expanding into maintenance would put Airbus on a potential
collision course with carriers including  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,
which operates the world’s largest third-party aircraft
maintenance operation. Scherer said Airbus will buy an
“independent” maintenance provider so as not to align itself
with one airline customer.  More Acquisitive  Airbus has stepped up purchases in recent months, buying
Danish aircraft parts distributor Satair A/S as well as
Virginia-based Metron Aviation Inc. to help expand in air-
traffic management. Airbus is seeking acquisition to counter
demand swings of aircraft sales and offer customers services
that’ll be required even when orders slow.  In maintenance, Airbus is seeking a takeover target that
already has the customer base and industry experience to combine
with Airbus’s technological knowledge, Scherer said. Airbus
isn’t looking to get into the traditional market for
maintenance, repair and overhaul, which is highly labor-
intensive, and will focus instead on component repair and
traditional airframe maintenance, he said.  Component repairs involves complex movable parts such as
avionics, and Airbus also wants to expand in engineering, which
involves component upgrades, Scherer said. The aim is to offer
total-care packages, in which an aircraft sale is bundled with
guarantees to maintain the plane over its lifetime.  A380 Agreement  Airbus said yesterday that it signed an agreement with
British Airways Plc to support inventory on its fleet of A380
planes, providing spare parts, repairs and logistics over 15
years. Airbus had already forged a similar agreement with
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  for both A380s and A330 planes.  Airbus’s expansion in services parallels a similar approach
by its parent company, European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.
EADS Chief Executive  Louis Gallois  wants to wean the company
from its dependence on Airbus aircraft sales, which now
contribute more than two thirds of total revenue.  EADS in July bought Vector Aerospace Corp., a Canadian
helicopter- and engine maintenance company, to improve its
presence in  North America  and increase its natural dollar hedge.
In July, it agreed to pay $960 million for Vizada, a provider of
satellite communications for the media, ships and the Pentagon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  