-- 
Taiwan Export Growth Holds Below 10% for a Second Straight Month

-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 
2011-10-07T08:29:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/taiwan-export-growth-holds-below-10-for-a-second-straight-month.html
Taiwan ’s export growth held below 10
percent for a second month, as a faltering global recovery hurt
demand for the island’s mobile phones and tablet computers.  Shipments abroad increased 9.9 percent in September from a
year earlier, compared with a 7.2 percent pace in August, the
Ministry of Finance said in Taipei today. The median of 16
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 9.6 percent
advance. Imports rose 10.8 percent for a trade surplus of $1.78
billion.  Taiwan’s central bank left  interest rates  unchanged last
week, snapping five straight quarterly increases and joining
Asian neighbors from  South Korea  to  Malaysia  in seeking to
shield expansion. HSBC Holdings Plc has lowered its estimate for
the island’s economic growth next year to 1.7 percent from 4.9
percent because of the global slowdown.  “Western consumers and governments are all under pressure
to deleverage,” Donna Kwok, an economist at HSBC in  Hong Kong ,
said before the release. “Chinese demand will help to counter
some, but not all, of the negative impact on Taiwan’s export
growth in coming months.”  Taiwan’s central bank, which sets rates once per quarter,
will probably keep borrowing costs unchanged at 1.875 percent
through the middle of 2012, she said.  The benchmark Taiex stock index ended the day up 1.1
percent before today’s report. The Taiwan dollar rose 0.4
percent to NT$30.493 at the 4 p.m. close, according to Taipei
Forex Inc.  Shutting Production  Europe ’s debt crisis and elevated U.S. unemployment
threaten  Asia ’s overseas sales of computers and cars. Exports
account for about two-thirds of Taiwan’s $355 billion economy,
with  China  the island’s largest trading partner.  Taipei-based Inventec Corp. said yesterday it will shut its
tablet computer production because of “changes in the macro
environment and external factors.” Some employees will be
relocated to other production lines, and “appropriate
arrangements” will be put in place for excess or unsuitable
workers, it said.  Today’s report showed the value of Taiwan’s exports slipped
to $24.61 billion in September from $25.79 billion in August.
Shipments to China climbed 9.6 percent from a year earlier,
after a 7.9 percent increase in August. Shipments to the U.S.
advanced 3.8 percent after gaining 6.2 percent in August.  Exports of electronics products including semiconductors
rose 3 percent last month from a year earlier after increasing
3.6 percent in August, today’s report showed. Shipments of
optical products, including screens used in flat-panel TVs,
increased 0.8 percent, after gaining 0.1 percent in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  