-- 
Malaysia’s Najib Aims to Boost Spending, Help Poor in Pre-Election Budget

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m ,   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 
2011-10-07T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/malaysia-to-boost-spending-help-poor-in-pre-election-budget.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak
will distribute cash to low-income families, raise wages for
civil servants and boost spending on transportation, seeking to
shield growth as the global recovery falters and elections loom.  Gross domestic product may expand 5 percent to 6 percent
next year after growing as much as 5.5 percent in 2011, Najib,
also finance minister, said in an annual budget speech yesterday.
The government may spend about 232.8 billion ringgit ($74
billion) in 2012, he said, 1.4 percent more than this year’s
outlay. The  budget deficit  is forecast to narrow to 4.7 percent
of GDP from 5.4 percent.  The prime minister plans to transform the Southeast Asian
nation’s economy by improving efficiency, spurring investment
and cutting a budget deficit that counts as one of the largest
in Asia as a proportion of GDP. Najib last month also promised
to roll back laws that allow the government to detain citizens
without trial, described by critics as draconian, as he seeks to
bolster support before elections due in 2013.  “This is obviously an election budget which we think will
take place early next year,” said Kun Lung Wu, an economist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in  Singapore . “We see the growth
forecasts for next year as optimistic while the deficit target
is realistic. If the world economy growth remains weak, the risk
is that the budget deficit and growth will be worse than the
government is expecting.”  Wage Increases  Malaysia  will increase civil servants’ salaries by as much
as 13 percent and boost pensions as the government overhauls the
civil-service system, Najib, 58, said. It will also remove
school fees for primary and secondary students and give a one-
off cash handout of 500 ringgit to households with monthly
incomes of 3,000 ringgit or less, he said.  “This unprecedented measure reflects the government’s
commitment to reduce the impact of the increasing cost of living
on the low-income group,” Najib said in yesterday’s speech,
referring to the payments to households. The government will
also give money to poor children and elderly and the disabled
every month, he said.  Elections may be held as early as this year, Barclays
Capital economist Rahul Bajoria said, predicting Najib probably
wants to go to the polls before a weakening global economy hurts
Malaysian growth further. The ruling coalition in 2008 had its
narrowest election victory in half a century.  ‘Challenging’ Environment  “Amid a challenging external environment, coupled with
inflationary pressures, there is added pressure on fiscal
resources to ensure that the domestic economy remains resilient
and generates higher growth,” the Ministry of Finance said
yesterday in its Economic Report 2011/12.  Malaysia has eased barriers to foreign investment since
2009, when the global recession hurt exports of the country’s
semiconductors and palm oil. Foreign direct investment rose 75.4
percent in the first six months of 2011 after growing six-fold
to 29 billion ringgit last year, the fastest in  Asia , the
government said.  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and the threat of a U.S.
recession have roiled global stock markets, erasing almost $10
trillion from equities last quarter. The benchmark FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index has dropped more than 7.8 percent this year,
while the ringgit has declined 3 percent. The currency closed at
3.1608 per dollar yesterday.  Economic Growth  Malaysia’s economic expansion will be 5 percent to 5.5
percent this year, the government said yesterday, lower than an
earlier target of as much as 6 percent growth in 2011. The
economy grew at the slowest pace since 2009 in the second
quarter, climbing 4 percent from a year earlier.  “The growth momentum is expected to pick up in the second
half of the year on the back of resilient private consumption
and strong private investment,” the government said. “For 2012,
GDP growth in Malaysia will remain largely domestic driven, due
to heightened uncertainties in the global economy.”  Malaysia will spend 49.2 billion ringgit on roads and rail
next year, Najib said. Construction on the first phase of
Malaysia’s biggest infrastructure project, a mass rail network,
will begin next month, the government said yesterday. The
building of a 100-storey tower, a new financial district and a
township covering an area of 1,060 hectares will commence in
2012.  Total government expenditure in 2011 may reach 229.6
billion ringgit, according to the  finance ministry . State
revenue may rise 1.9 percent in 2012 to 186.9 billion ringgit
amid higher contributions from corporate and personal taxes and
income from petroleum, the report showed.  Subsidy Burden  Najib has tried to cut operational expenses, including
trimming subsidies for sugar, gasoline, diesel and liquefied
petroleum gas. The government will maintain the subsidy program
to ease the impact of rising prices on its citizens and
implement it in a more targeted way, it said yesterday.  Subsidies paid by the state to keep prices of fuel and
other essential goods and services low will “remain stable” at
33.2 billion ringgit in 2012 from 32.8 billion in 2011, the
ministry said.  “The government recognizes the burden of subsidy outlay on
the country’s fiscal position and the need to strengthen it,”
it said in the report. “However, any subsidy rationalization
will be gradual and the government will ensure that the poor and
low-income group will continue to receive government support.”  Malaysia’s monetary policy remains accommodative and
supportive of growth, the finance ministry said yesterday.  Inflation has probably peaked and price pressures may ease
as the global economy deteriorates, central bank Governor Zeti
Akhtar Aziz said Sept. 25.  Bank Negara Malaysia  kept borrowing costs unchanged at 3
percent for a second straight meeting in September after four
increases from early March 2010 to May this year.  “Domestic inflation is increasingly affected by external
factors, including supply constraints,” the government said.
“Under such circumstances, sustaining a low inflation
environment domestically is more challenging than in the past.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  