-- 
Malaysia to Raise Energy Output With New Fields After Repairs

-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 
2011-10-07T08:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/malaysia-to-raise-energy-output-with-new-fields-after-repairs.html
Malaysia , Southeast Asia’s second-
biggest oil and gas producer, expects to raise energy output
next year after upgrading its facilities and as new fields come
on stream.  Crude output is likely to rise 3.3 percent to 620,000
barrels a day in 2012, after shrinking 6 percent this year while
the nation closed some facilities for repair and expansion, the
Ministry of Finance said. Natural gas production will probably
gain 2.6 percent to 2.22 trillion cubic feet in 2011 and
continue expanding next year, the government said in its
Economic Report 2011/2012 today.  State-owned Petroliam Nasional Bhd. temporarily shut
several facilities for works this year to extend the productive
capacity of the country’s oil reservoirs. The disruption caused
output of crude and condensates to drop 12 percent in the first
seven months of this year, according to today’s report.  “Production of crude oil is envisaged to pick up following
completion of the plan and resumption of production in several
 oil fields  in Sabah,” the report said. “In addition, LNG
exports are projected to expand backed by increasing demand from
 Japan  following the government’s plan to reduce reliance on
nuclear energy and closure of a few nuclear plants.”  Prime Minister Najib Razak last year announced incentives,
including tax breaks, to encourage the exploration of less-
profitable fields in a bid to boost the country’s petroleum
reserves.  Offshore Drilling  Petroliam Nasional, or Petronas, has since stepped up
offshore drilling with local and overseas partners, including
 Petrofac Ltd. (PFC) , to boost the nation’s underground holdings of oil
and gas. Four new oil fields and one  gas field  were discovered
this year, today’s report said.  Crude oil reserves rose 1 percent to 5.86 billion barrels
as of Jan. 1, with an expected lifespan of 24 years, the
government said. Gas reserves grew 0.3 percent to 88.9 trillion
cubic feet, enough to last 39 years, one year more than
previously projected.  Export earnings from crude may contract 1.8 percent this
year to 30.2 billion ringgit ($9.6 billion) even though Malaysia
is expected to fetch 29 percent more for its oil grade, the
 finance ministry  said. Benchmark Tapis oil is expected to
average $108 per barrel in 2011, up from $83.84 in 2010, it
said.  ‘Elevated Levels’  “ Oil prices  are expected to trend lower on weak economic
outlook in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development countries and heightened global uncertainties in the
second half of 2011,” said the finance ministry. “Despite
these uncertainties, fundamental supply-demand pressure will
continue to keep prices at elevated levels.”  Brent crude , the benchmark grade for more than half the
world’s oil, has averaged $111.24 a barrel so far this year.  LNG exports may rise 18.2 percent to 45.1 billion ringgit
this year on external demand and firmer prices, the government
said. Output may further increase next year after expansion of
the MLNG Dua complex in Sarawak state with an annual production
capacity of 1.3 million metric tons, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barry Porter  in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  