-- 
All Blacks Re-jig for Pumas; Injured Wallabies Return: World Cup Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-07T02:37:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/all-blacks-re-jig-for-pumas-injured-wallabies-return-world-cup-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of stories
from the 2011  Rugby World Cup  in New Zealand.  All Blacks Re-jig  New Zealand picked Sonny Bill Williams on the wing among
six changes for its Oct. 9 quarterfinal against Argentina.  Williams switches from inside center to accommodate Ma’a Nonu’s return, with wingers Israel Dagg, Zac Guildford and
Richard Kahui unavailable because of injuries. Cory Jane was
chosen on the other wing and Mils Muliaina named at full-back
for his 100th Test.  Piri Weepu replaces  Jimmy Cowan  at scrum-half, while Keven Mealamu, Brad Thorn and captain Richie McCaw come in for  Andrew
Hore ,  Ali Williams  and  Victor Vito , who drop to the
replacements’ bench.  With a combined record 769 appearances, the lineup for the
match at Auckland’s Eden Park is  New Zealand ’s most-experienced
team in Test rugby, tournament organizers said.  “This is sudden death, finals rugby,” All Blacks coach
Graham Henry said. “We have the utmost respect for Argentina.
They showed in their pool matches, especially against England
and Scotland, just how physical their game is.”  NEW ZEALAND: Mils Muliaina, Cory Jane, Conrad Smith, Ma’a
Nonu, Sonny Bill Williams, Colin Slade, Piri Weepu, Kieran Read,
Richie McCaw (captain), Jerome Kaino, Sam Whitelock, Brad Thorn,
Owen Franks, Keven Mealamu, Tony Woodcock.  Replacements: Andrew Hore,  Ben Franks , Ali Williams, Victor
Vito, Jimmy Cowan, Aaron Cruden,  Isaia Toeava .  Injured Trio Return  Full-back Kurtley Beale, winger Digby Ioane and inside
center Pat McCabe came off the injured list to return for
Australia’s quarterfinal against South Africa in two days.  The Wallabies’ lineup for the match in Wellington features
14 of the 15 players who began the  World Cup  with a 32-6 win
over Italy. Center Anthony Fainga’a, who started against the
Italians, was named on the replacements’ bench after recovering
from a concussion.  “Fortunately, a lot of the injury problems that we’ve had
are now behind us,” Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  said in a
statement. “The players that are coming back into the team
after breaks are good to go.”  Radike Samo, who played on the wing in the last match
against Russia, moved back to No. 8 in one of five changes to
the forward pack. Flanker Rocky Elsom, lock Dan Vickerman, and
props Ben Alexander and Sekope Kepu were recalled.  Pumas Change Four  Argentina made four changes to face the All Blacks in two
days, recalling Rodrigo Roncero, Manuel Carizza, Gonzalo Camacho
and Martin Rodriguez in place of Marcos Ayerza, Mariano Galarza,
Juan Jose Imhoff and Lucas Gonzalez Amorosino.  With the exception of No. 8 Leonardo Senatore, it’s the
same team which started the 13-12 win over Scotland on Sept. 25.
The only absentee is Juan Martin Fernandez Lobbe, who suffered a
tournament-ending knee injury in that match.  Pumas captain Felipe Contepomi enters the game needing to
score five points to overtake Hugo Porta’s national-record total
of 590 career points in international rugby.  ARGENTINA : Martin Rodriguez, Gonzalo Camacho, Marcelo
Bosch, Felipe Contepomi (captain), Horacio Agulla, Santiago
Fernandez, Nicolas Vergallo, Leonardo Senatore, Juan Manuel
Leguizamon, Julio Farias Cabello, Patricio Albacete, Manuel
Carizza, Juan Figallo, Mario Ledesma, Rodrigo Roncero.  Replacements: Agustin Creevy, Martin Scelzo, Marcos Ayerza,
Alejandro Campos, Alfredo Lalanne, Lucas Gonzalez Amorosino,
Juan Jose Imhoff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  