-- 
Anti-Wall Street Protests Ignore Legitimate Gripe: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-10-07T00:00:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/anti-wall-street-protests-ignore-legitimate-gripe-caroline-baum.html
From the looks of the youthful,
costumed characters swaying to the music and flying colorful
balloons, it was hard to tell if Occupy Wall Street was a street
fair, a ‘60s-style love-in or a protest rally.  To get up to speed on the leaderless movement that started
in  New York City  on Sept. 17 and has expanded to about 150
cities nationwide, I tuned in to what looks to be its website to
watch the “Global Revolution” being  streamed  live. After hours
of watching a lot of folks milling around, apparently waiting
for something to happen (nothing did), I still couldn’t identify
the target of their angst (the options seem to include
capitalism, banks, greed, bailouts, foreclosures, taxes, foreign
wars,  income inequality , the police, the  Federal Reserve  and a
fiat currency) or their goal.  One man with dreadlocks spent a few minutes trying to
determine whether it was morning or afternoon. An off-screen
voice directed the crowd where to go for “donation-based
cigarettes,” with the caveat that “cigarettes kill you and
help corporations.” (Judging from the laptops, cameras and
other kinds of technology on display, corporations are getting
all kinds of help from the protesters.)  Catered Protest  A woman said the food was good -- “it’s catered” -- even
for vegans like herself. A scary-looking dude said he was at
Zuccotti Park to explain to people their rights should they be
stopped by the police. He said he was glad “to see so many
people working toward a solution.”  Solution? I was still trying to get a grasp on the problem.
To get traction, protests need to have clear goals, be they
narrow (ending the war in  Vietnam ) or broad (freedom, in the
case of Cairo’s  Tahrir Square ). They need spokespeople who can
articulate the issues. And, they need solutions, according to
Saul Alinsky, whose “Rules for Radicals” is a guide for
turning unfocused grass-roots discontent into effective anti-
government and anti-corporate activism.  “The price of a successful attack is a constructive
alternative,” Alinsky wrote.  Oh, sure, some protesters have posted lists of pie-in-the-
sky  demands . (The  occupywallst.org  website insists there is no
official list of demands.) One of these includes a $20 minimum
wage regardless of employment, tariffs on all imports, trillions
of dollars in new spending on alternative energy and
infrastructure, and debt forgiveness -- all debt “on the entire
planet.”  Cost-Benefit Analysis  In other words, lots of benefits and no consideration of
the cost. You’d think one of these kids -- and that’s how they
come across -- would have taken an economics course along the
way. Where do they think the government gets the money for its
largesse? Imposing usurious taxes on the top 1 percent of
earners won’t yield enough money to provide for the other 99
percent. (One of the protesters’ slogans is, “We are the 99
percent that will no longer tolerate the greed and corruption of
the 1 percent.”)  It’s not as if young adults couldn’t find good targets for
their anger. If these protesters are looking for something to
get exercised about, they might want to wander into Chris
McHugh’s Monetary Economics class at  Tufts University  in
Medford,  Massachusetts , and learn about “generational
economics,” the idea that government is going to stick the
younger generation with the bill for supporting the retiring
baby boomers. McHugh asked his students to identify grass-roots
youth groups that are agitating about this, but all they found
were a couple of minor groups that tended to be  Tea Party  and
Ron Paul spinoffs.  Drowning in Debt  Talk about haves and have-nots. The debt burden that the
younger generation is staring at almost guarantees it will have
a reduced standard of living. After all, if more dollars are
directed at keeping Granny alive until age 102, that means fewer
dollars for productivity-enhancing investments.  This idea clearly hasn’t resonated with today’s youth.  Maybe that’s because the numbers -- tens of trillions of
dollars in unfunded Social Security liabilities, for example --
are hard to fathom. It’s much easier to vent their anger at bank
bailouts and preferential treatment for corporate interests,
much of which is justified. They seem to be ignoring  Capitol
Hill , where the rules are made by our bought-and-paid-for
government.  Ask a Lobbyist  Congress’ Select Committee on  Deficit Reduction , charged
with finding at least $1.2 trillion in spending cuts over the
next decade, has been operating in relative secrecy over the
last few weeks, much to the consternation of the news media.  If you want to find out what’s going on, according to
 Politico , you need to “ask a lobbyist.” Democratic and
Republican lobbyists, the news website reported on Oct. 3,
“continue to get corporate clients with interests before the
committee face time with members and staff.”  One hundred of those lobbyists were formerly employed by
members of the supercommittee, according to the Washington Post,
making access all that much easier. The Occupy  Wall Street 
protesters, like many of us ordinary Americans, have no
lobbyists watching out for our interests. We don’t have the
option of exchanging campaign contributions for tax favors.  Scrapping the  tax code  and moving to a flat tax -- the
simplest way to kill the lobbying industry -- might seem unfair
to a bunch of protesters with amorphous gripes. But with that as
a goal, the new movement might get a bunch of us grown-ups off
our chairs and into the street to join them.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 