-- 
Romney Calls for Civility, Unity Among Religions at Republican Conference

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-10-09T15:17:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/anti-romney-republicans-courting-evangelical-christian-vote.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney , who was labeled a cult member last week, said
religious differences shouldn’t divide Republicans and urged
civility in party’s 2012 presidential nomination process.  “Poisonous language does not advance our cause,” the
former Massachusetts governor and current frontrunner in polls,
said yesterday at the “Values Voter Summit” in Washington. The
conference is held by evangelical Christians, an important
voting bloc in the Republican nominating contests. “Decency and
civility is a value, too,” he said.  Robert Jeffress, a Baptist minister from  Dallas , told
reporters that Romney, a Mormon, is “a good, moral person, but
someone who is part of a cult.” Jeffress, introduced Romney’s
rival  Rick Perry , the  Texas  governor, at the summit on Oct. 7.  Perry “does not believe Mormonism is a cult,” spokesman
Mark Miner in a statement. Romney didn’t directly address that
comment yesterday.  Romney’s religion and his record favoring same-sex marriage
and abortion rights while governor -- both of which he now
opposes -- became a focus at the summit.  The annual gathering focuses on efforts to “champion
traditional values,” limit government and cut federal spending.
Self-described evangelicals accounted for 44 percent of
Republican primary voters in the 2008 campaign, according to
exit polling.  Republican presidential candidates  Michele Bachmann ,  Herman Cain , Newt Gingrich and  Rick Santorum  dismissed questions about
Romney’s religion.  ‘Theologian in Chief’  “I’m not running for theologian in chief,” Cain said on
CNN’s “State of the Union” today. “I am not going to do an
analysis of Mormonism versus Christianity for the sake of
answering that,” he said, adding “it’s not going to boost this
economy.”  Bachmann, speaking on the same CNN program, called the
issue “inconsequential,” and said “to make a big issue out of
this is ridiculous.”  “I think what the real focus is here, is on religious
tolerance,” Bachmann said, “This is not what people are
talking about.”  Gingrich, speaking on the CBS “Face the Nation” program,
said the minister’s comments about Mormonism were
“inappropriate.” On “Fox News Sunday,” Santorum, a former
 Pennsylvania  senator, said he doesn’t think Mormonism is a cult
and that “every Mormon I know is a good and decent person.”  Ron Paul  Wins  Representative Ron Paul of Texas, also seeking the 2012
Republican nomination, won a straw poll held at the summit with
37 percent of the votes cast, according to Paul’s campaign.
Businessman Herman Cain received 23 percent of the votes,
followed by former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania with 16
percent, and Perry and Minnesota Representative Michele Bachmann
each with 8 percent. Romney won the  2007 straw poll  with 27.6
percent of the votes, according to the Family Research Council,
which organizes the summit.  Summit attendee Ellen Elmore, 62, of  St. Louis , said
Romney’s record may be used against him in the presidential
election if he becomes the  Republican Party ’s candidate.  “I think there are two Romneys: One is what he says and
one is what he does, and we never know which one we are
getting,” Elmore said, adding that she voted for Romney in the
2008 Republican primaries.  Abortion, Gay Rights  Romney supported legal abortion and advocated for gay
rights when he won the Massachusetts governorship in 2002. When
he sought the 2008 presidential nomination, his position on both
issues had changed: He supported a constitutional amendment
banning same-sex marriage and opposed abortion rights.  Romney drew the loudest cheers when he said during his
speech that he would support the Defense of Marriage Act, which
defines marriage as being between a man and a woman, and when he
called on the  Supreme Court  to overturn its 1973 Roe v. Wade
decision making abortion legal in the U.S.. He said he wanted to
return the law to state jurisdiction.  Elmore said Romney switching his position showed he was
“very plastic, robotic and a typical politician,” who
“expects us to vote for him because he’s next in line.”  Elmore said she would pick either Cain or former House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  as the party’s candidate.  Bill Westerling, 73, of Saint Charles,  Illinois , said he
was leaning in favor of Romney “regardless of his religion,
because of his experience” as a former governor and a business
executive.  Economy and Jobs  Romney focused most of his comments on the economy and
jobs, criticizing President  Barack Obama ’s economic stimulus
program. Perry also focused on the economy, spotlighting his
call for lower taxes on businesses and a freeze on pending
government regulations, as well as promoting Texas’s job-growth
record during his almost 11 years as governor.  “I’ve listened to thousands of Americans and they are not
under any illusions about the current state of our country,”
Perry said. “They know our first order of business to getting
Americans working again is sending our current president to the
private sector.”  Perry has dropped in opinion polls after drawing attacks
from his Republican opponents in recent debates. A  Washington 
Post-ABC News poll of Republicans and Republican-leaning
independents taken Sept. 29-Oct. 2 gave Perry 16 percent, a
decline of 13 percentage points since early September. Romney
led the Republican field with 25 percent. Perry was tied for
second in the survey with Cain.  Tax Simplification  Cain drew standing ovations at the summit as he stressed
his opposition to abortion rights, his support of traditional
marriage and his pledge to simplify the  tax code . He also
chastised the “Occupy Wall Street” protests. He said the
demonstrators are “anti-capitalism” and “anti-free-market.”  Rival Bachmann, a Minnesota congresswoman, said the Tea
Party movement’s push for significantly limited government would
join with independent voters and disaffected Democrats to defeat
Obama in next year’s general election.  “This is not the election to choose a moderate or a
compromise candidate,” she said. “Conservatives, we can have
it all this year.”  Proving socially conservative credentials on issues such as
abortion, traditional marriage and school prayer won’t be enough
for candidates this year, said Ralph Reed, founder and chairman
of the Faith and Freedom Coalition.  “The evangelicals want to win, and they’re smart enough to
know that to win you’ve got to have a compelling message on the
economy,” Reed said.  Obama “has done a better job of energizing and focusing
evangelicals and other social conservatives in this country than
I thought anyone could ever do,” said Richard Land, leader of
the Nashville, Tennessee-based Southern Baptist Convention.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  