-- 
Harleysville Buyout Highlights Directors’ Potential Conflicts at Insurer

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-10-07T04:01:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/harleysville-buyout-highlights-directors-potential-conflicts-at-insurer.html
Harleysville Mutual Insurance Co.
directors may draw scrutiny for potential conflicts of interest
when customers are asked to approve the sale of the company and
its Nasdaq-listed subsidiary,  Harleysville Group Inc. (HGIC) , to
Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co.  Michael Browne is chief executive officer of each
Harleysville company, and most of the directors serve on both
boards. Directors last week approved the companies’ sale on
terms that give the publicly traded firm more than twice the
valuation of its parent.  All nine directors of Harleysville Mutual own stock in the
other company. Among them are two people who, according to the
general counsel, comprised a special committee to assess the
deal because they aren’t on the Harleysville Group board. Those
two will realize about a $1.35 million gain on their stock if
the sale to Nationwide is completed, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. None of the nine has an economic stake in the
mutual beyond the role of policyholder.  “It doesn’t sound like arm’s length,” said  Robert Hunter ,
a former Texas insurance commissioner and the director of
insurance for the  Consumer Federation of America . “Unless
there’s a very rigorous study by the regulating state with a
good report, it’s probably going to end up in court.”  Browne owns about 557,000 options in the publicly traded
firm, all of which were under water before Bloomberg News
reported the talks with Nationwide on Sept. 23. If the sale is
completed, they’re worth more than $14 million. His shares and
restricted stock would be worth at least $11 million.  Pennsylvania Law  Robert Kauffman, general counsel of the Harleysville,
Pennsylvania-based insurers, said the policyholders will benefit
because they will become affiliated with Nationwide, a larger
company with a better financial-strength rating. He added that
under Pennsylvania law, a mutual company’s board must balance
the interests of policyholders, employees, and other
stakeholders rather than maximize economic value as a stock
company incorporated in  Delaware  would.  The members of the committee of Harleysville Mutual
directors that blessed the deal include Nicholas DeBenedictis,
CEO of Aqua America Inc., a Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania-based water
utility. He had 28,707 shares of Harleysville Group stock,
according to an April regulatory filing. The stake would be
worth about $1 million more on completion of the deal than on
Sept. 22. DeBenedictis didn’t return a call seeking comment.  The directors don’t have a conflict of interest, Kauffman
said. Under Pennsylvania law, stock ownership in another company
does not “in and of itself” mean the director has a conflict, he
said.  Missing Fords  Harleysville  traces its roots  to 1915 when the
disappearance of Ford sedans prompted a local man to organize an
association to protect against auto theft. The company first
sold stock in Harleysville Group to the public in 1986.  In the deal with Columbus, Ohio-based Nationwide, also
policyholder-owned, the public shareholders who own about 47
percent of Harleysville Group get $60 a share in cash, or 137
percent more than its stock price on Sept. 22.  It also values Harleysville Group at more than $1.6
billion, or more than twice company’s book value under U.S.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The book value was
$781.7 million as of June 30, or about $28.81 per share. The
company’s net worth is about $711 million under the accounting
rules used by state insurance regulators.  $840 Million  Holders of restricted stock and options, including Browne,
will get a payout of about $80 million for those securities,
Nationwide said. That’s almost 10 percent of the $840 million
the buyer is paying to Harleysville Group equity holders.  “Policyholders literally get nothing, and management gets
about $70 million to $80 million,” said Jason Adkins, founder
of Boston-based law firm Adkins Kelston & Zavez PC, which has
brought suits against mutuals on behalf of policyholders. “That
clearly, clearly is not appropriate. Policyholders should be
compensated.”  Adkins represented policyholders of Allied Mutual Insurance
Co. and claimed in a suit that company assets were improperly
transferred to Allied Group Inc. The case was settled in 2005
for at least $100 million, according to Nationwide, which
acquired the Allied insurers.  Policyholders of the mutual company will see their interests
and the firm’s $892 million of net worth combined with that of
Nationwide’s, with no payout -- a transaction similar to a stock
merger of equals. Nationwide’s financial strength rating of A+
from A.M. Best Co. is a level higher than Harleysville Mutual’s.  ‘No Worse Off’  Griffin Financial Group LLC, a Pennsylvania-based investment
bank, gave Harleysville Mutual an opinion that the deal was
fair. Policyholders are “no worse off, and arguably better off
because they’re members of a stronger, more highly-rated company
than they are today,” said Jeffrey Waldron, a Griffin senior
managing director.  “Nationwide is better diversified nationally, both in
product and in catastrophe exposure,” said Joe Case, a
spokesman for the buyer. “Harleysville policyholders will also
benefit from Nationwide’s more complete line of products and its
national service support.”  The Nationwide takeover requires approval by a majority of
Harleysville Mutual policyholders who cast a vote. Harleysville
Group shareholders and Nationwide policyholders must also
approve the deal for it to be completed.  Rosanne Placey, a spokeswoman for the Pennsylvania
Insurance Department, said the companies haven’t yet submitted
their filings to the regulator related to the deal, and she
declined to comment further.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  