-- 
Stocks in U.S., Euro Retreat as Fitch Lowers Italy, Spain Credit Ratings

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-10-07T20:35:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/asian-stocks-won-metals-gain-on-europe-outlook-optimism-yen-strengthens.html
U.S. stocks fell, halting a three-day
rally, and the euro reversed earlier gains versus the dollar
after  Fitch Ratings  cut debt ratings on  Spain  and Italy.
Treasuries slid, sending the 30-year yield above 3 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.8 percent to
close at 1,155.46 after rebounding more than 8 percent from a
one-year intraday low on Oct. 4. The euro lost 0.4 percent to
$1.3388, erasing a gain of as much as 0.7 percent. Ten-year
Treasury note yields rose nine basis points to 2.08 percent and
climbed 16 points in five days, its biggest weekly increase
since July. Oil capped its largest weekly gain in seven months.  Early gains in U.S. equities faded today as faster- than-
forecast growth in jobs was overshadowed by concern Europe’s
debt crisis will worsen.  Italy  had its foreign and local
currency long-term issuer default ratings cut to ‘A+’ from ’AA-
,’ while Spain had the same set of ratings cut to ‘AA-’ from
‘AA+.’ The outlook for both is negative.  “We’re still going to get a bad event in Europe,”  Michael Strauss , who helps oversee about $27 billion as chief investment
strategist at Commonfund in Wilton,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview. “What took the wind out of the stock
market was the variety of downgrades.” The jobs data showed
“it’s not an economic recession, but it’s slow growth.”  Stocks started the session higher after government data
showed payrolls climbed by 103,000 workers, topping the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists for a rise of
60,000. The data followed reports earlier this week showing
faster-than-estimated growth in manufacturing, construction and
service industries and improving retail sales.  Swinging Between Gains, Losses  The  S&P 500  then turned lower before staging a rally late
in the day, reversing its loss and climbing as much as 0.4
percent, before finally giving up gains and closing lower.
Losses were led by smaller U.S. companies and banks, with the
 Russell 2000 Index (RTY)  slumping 2.6 percent today after surging 11
percent in the previous three sessions for the its strongest
rally in more than two years.  The  S&P 500 Financials Index (S5FINL)  lost 3.7 percent after
climbing 8.8 percent over the previous three days. The group of
banks, insurers and investment firms is up 4.8 percent after
sinking to a two-year low on Oct. 3.  Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Travelers Cos.
and American Express Co. lost more than 2.2 percent for the
biggest declines in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , which
slipped 0.2 percent to 11,103.12. Sprint Nextel Corp.
tumbled 20 percent, the biggest loss in the S&P 500, after
saying it needs to raise additional capital as it spends on a
network upgrade and new handsets.  Rebound  The S&P 500 ended the session up about 7.5 percent from a
one-year intraday low on Oct. 4 and capped a 2 percent weekly
gain. The benchmark index sank 14 percent in the third quarter
and this week came within 1 percent of extending its decline
from its April peak to 20 percent on a closing basis, the common
definition of a  bear market . The slump pushed the index to 12
times reported earnings, the cheapest valuation level since
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum producer, will mark
the unofficial start of the earnings-reporting season when it
reports results on Oct. 11. Third-quarter profits for S&P 500
companies are projected to have grown 12 percent, according to
analyst forecast compiled by Bloomberg, down from an estimate of
17 percent when the index traded at a three-year high at the end
of April.  Jobs Revision  The government jobs data also showed hours and earnings
both increased and revisions to previous reports added a total
of 99,000 jobs to payrolls in July and August after last month’s
jobs report showed no gain in non-farm payrolls for August.  “This is yet another data point suggesting that the U.S.
is not moving toward recession any time soon,”Richard Skaggs,
senior equity strategist at Loomis Sayles & Co. in  Boston , which
manages more than $150 billion, said in a telephone interview.
The revisions to prior months “were significant,” he said.
“Last month, the unchanged number really sent stocks for a
loop.”  The rate by which data on the economy has been trailing
forecasts has been decreasing since June, according to the
Citigroup Economic Surprise Index. The U.S. gauge, which fell
below zero on April 29 as the S&P 500 was peaking, has climbed
from a low of minus-117.2 on June 3 to minus-7.5.  The 30-year Treasury bond’s yield climbed six basis points
to 3.01 percent increased 10 points this week, the biggest
increase since August. Two-year yields climbed three basis
points to 0.29 percent, up five points on the week.  ‘Positive Surprise’  “We saw a positive surprise in payrolls and the market has
to respect that and push yields higher on the optimism, but no
one is too excited about the data given the uncertainty in
 Europe ,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate strategist in
 New York  at BNP Paribas SA, one of the 20 primary dealers
obliged to participate in U.S. debt offerings. “The uncertainty
isn’t going away anytime soon.”  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.8 percent to extend its
weekly gain to 2.6 percent. Gauges of energy producers and auto
companies climbed more than 1.7 percent to lead gains among 19
industries.  European markets closed before Fitch downgraded Italy and
Spain.  The yield on 10-year Italian bonds rose seven basis points
to 5.49 percent. The nation said it plans to sell securities
maturing between 2016 and 2025 on Oct. 13. Spanish yields fell
two points to 4.95 percent.  Greece  Talks  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy will meet in Berlin on Oct. 9 to discuss
Greece’s debt problems as the nation edges closer to default. It
will be their eighth one-on-one summit in 20 months.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 2.1 percent,
extending its rebound from a two-year low on Oct. 4 to 6.1
percent. The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, added 2.8
percent after Citigroup raised its rating on the nation to
“neutral.” The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese
companies listed in  Hong Kong  advanced 3.7 percent. Benchmark
indexes gained more than 2.5 percent in  Russia  and  South Korea .  Crude oil for November delivery rose 39 cents to settle at
$82.98 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  and rallied
4.8 percent this week, the most since March.  Among commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI Index, zinc and
sugar rose more than 2 percent to lead gains and coffee and
natural gas dropped more than 3 percent for the biggest losses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  