-- 
Asian Stocks Pare Losses as Europe Takes Steps to Resolve Its Debt Crisis

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-10-07T23:41:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/asian-stocks-pare-weekly-losses-as-europe-seeks-solutions-for-debt-crisis.html
Asian stocks pared weekly losses amid
optimism  Europe  will act to contain its debt crisis and as
companies from Samsung Electronics Co. to Aeon Co. boosted
profit forecasts.  HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest lender by market value,
gained 1.2 percent in  Hong Kong . Samsung Electronics, the
world’s second-largest maker of mobile phones, surged 2.4
percent in Seoul, while Aeon, Japan’s biggest supermarket
company, gained 3.2 percent in Tokyo. Sony Corp. fell 6.1
percent in Tokyo after Nomura Holdings Inc. cut its rating and
the Wall Street Journal reported the company is close to an
agreement to buy Ericsson AB’s stake in their mobile-phone
venture.  “It certainly sounds like policy makers in Europe are
understanding the situation with the banking system and getting
more willing to recapitalize the banks,” said Belinda Allen, a
senior investment analyst at Colonial First State Global Asset
Management in Sydney, which oversees about $145 billion. “That
has been a positive step.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 0.2 percent to 112.95 this
week, erasing most of a decline as steep as 5.1 percent, as the
European Commission pushed for a coordinated capital injection
for banks to shield them from the fallout of a potential Greek
debt default.  Australian Rate  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 advanced 3.9 percent after the
country’s central bank left its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged and signaled it has scope to lower the nation’s
borrowing costs if necessary as inflation eases.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 1.1 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi Index dropped 0.6 percent and Hong Kong’s Hang
Seng Index gained 0.7 percent.  China ’s markets were shut for a
week-long holiday.  Banks and exporters rallied after European Central Bank
President Jean-Claude Trichet said the ECB will resume purchases
of mortgage-backed securities and reintroduce yearlong loans for
banks. In  London , the  Bank of England  boosted its asset-purchase
program by more than a third to 275 billion pounds ($425
billion).  HSBC rose 1.2 percent to HK$61.60 in Hong Kong.  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , the nation’s largest lender to businesses,
climbed 6.2 percent to A$23.76 in Sydney. Commonwealth Bank of
Australia, the nation’s biggest bank, added 1.5 percent to
A$46.25.  European Market  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a Hong Kong-based clothier that
counts Europe as its biggest market, climbed 8.1 percent to
HK$10.32 in Hong Kong. Cosco Pacific Ltd., which operates
container facilities at  Greece ’s Piraeus port, gained 3.4
percent to HK$9.04. LG Electronics Inc., the world’s fourth-
largest maker of mobile phones that gets about 16 percent of
sales from Europe, jumped 7.4 percent to 74,000 won in Seoul.  Samsung Electronics, South Korea’s biggest exporter of
consumer electronics, climbed 2.4 percent to 860,000 won in
Seoul. The company reported third-quarter operating profit that
beat analyst estimates. Aeon advanced 3.2 percent to 1,082 yen
in Tokyo after raising its full-year profit forecast to a record
following the acquisition of two grocery chains.  Raw material producers rallied as copper futures posted its
biggest advance in three months. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s
largest mining company, increased 6.2 percent to A$37.20. Rio
Tinto Group Ltd., the world’s No. 2 mining company by sales,
rose 7.4 percent to A$66.40. Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest
producer of the metal, jumped 2.8 percent to HK$14.18 in Hong
Kong.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index has declined 18 percent this
year amid concern the global economy is poised for another
recession as Europe’s debt crisis worsens and U.S. economic
growth falters.  Recession Fear  “Fear is still in the driver’s seat,” said  Shane Oliver ,
Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under management.
“With Europe sliding into recession, credit markets continue to
worsen, and that will affect growth in Asia by reducing export
demand. There’s this worry that Europe is going to implode and
drag down the U.S. with it.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on Oct. 4 lowered its forecast for
earnings growth in Asia excluding  Japan  after reducing its
outlook for global economic expansion. Stocks in the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index were valued at 11.53 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 11.6 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and 9.8 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  ‘Financial Burden’  Among stocks that dropped this week, Sony Corp. tumbled 6.1
percent to 1,415 yen in Tokyo, after Nomura cut its rating to
“neutral” from “buy,” saying the company will have
difficulty cutting costs at its television business.  Separately, Sony is closer to an agreement to buy Ericsson
AB’s stake in their mobile-phone venture, according to a Wall
Street Journal report, citing people familiar with the matter.  “The deal could amount to a huge financial burden on
Sony,” said Hideki Yasuda, a Tokyo-based analyst at Ace
Securities Co. in  Tokyo  with a “neutral” rating the stock.
“On top of that, there could be a costly fee for using patents
reserved by Ericsson.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John McCluskey  at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net . 