-- 
Asian Currencies Gain in Week as Europe Officials Act to Stem Debt Crisis

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-10-07T09:07:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/asian-currencies-gain-in-week-as-europe-officials-act-to-stem-debt-crisis.html
Asian currencies completed their
first weekly advance in a month, led by Malaysia’s ringgit, as
optimism European officials will contain the region’s debt
crisis helped revive demand for emerging-market assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, rose 0.6
percent this week as the  European Central Bank  outlined plans to
pump cash into the debt-ridden economy. The ringgit and Taiwan’s
dollar gained as reports today showed export growth accelerated.
Global funds bought a combined $403 million more of South
Korean, Taiwanese and Thai shares than they sold yesterday,
exchange data show.  “Markets appear to have taken it positively that the ECB
provided extraordinary liquidity measures at its policy meeting
yesterday,” said Nick Verdi, a Singapore-based currency
strategist at  Barclays Capital . “We have very positive
fundamental views on a number of Asian currencies. Given the
risks emanating from  Europe  which will persist in the near term,
the volatility isn’t likely to fall.”  The ringgit gained 1.2 percent this week to 3.1561 per
dollar as of 4:33 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , snapping four weeks of
declines, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 Philippine peso  gained 0.4 percent to 43.545 and South Korea’s
won jumped 1.1 percent today to 1,178.73 and was little changed
from last week.  Malaysian exports climbed 10.9 percent in August from a
year earlier, the most in four months, according to a trade
ministry statement today. Shipments from Taiwan rose 9.9 percent
in September, the Ministry of Finance said today. That compared
with a gain of 7.2 percent in the prior month and the median
estimate of 9.6 percent in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Ongoing Uncertainty’  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares advanced for a second
day after ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday the
monetary authority would reintroduce purchases of covered bonds
and offer banks additional unlimited loans to support markets.
Europe’s policy makers left the benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 1.5 percent.  A U.S. Labor Department report today will show companies in
the world’s largest economy hired 55,000 workers in September
compared with zero new jobs the previous month, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The ECB’s plan to boost liquidity allayed concern in the
market,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a currency analyst at Samsung
Futures Inc. in  Seoul . “The ongoing uncertainty about  Greece 
and the U.S. unemployment data due today will make it difficult
for investors to take strong positions.”  The baht strengthened 0.5 percent today and 0.6 percent
this week to 30.92 per dollar in Bangkok, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Taiwan ’s dollar increased 0.4 percent
today to NT$30.552 and was little changed from last week.  Intervention  Data this week showed currency reserves in Taiwan fell by a
record $11.2 billion last month, while Korea’s stockpile shrank
by the most in three years, indicating central banks sold
dollars to support local currencies. Indonesian holdings dropped
$10 billion last month from a record $124.6 billion in August,
the bank reported yesterday.  Taiwan’s dollar had its worst month in September since
1997, prompting central bank Governor Perng Fai-nan to say on
Oct. 5 policy makers don’t favor a weaker currency.  Rupee, Rupiah  Bank Indonesia  will continue to purchase government debt to
stabilize the rupiah, Hendar, the central bank’s director of
monetary policy who uses only one name, said in a mobile-phone
text message on Oct. 3. Thailand’s central bank also said this
week it entered the market to curb volatility. Policy makers
intervene by buying or selling currencies to try and influence
exchange rates.  “Some Asian central banks, not just Thailand, seem to have
been intervening and that should also support currencies in the
region,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a trader at Sumitomo Mitsui
Banking Corp. in Bangkok.  India ’s rupee gained 0.3 percent today to 49.20 per dollar,
paring its drop for the week to 0.5 percent.  Indonesia ’s rupiah
declined 0.6 percent today and 1.7 percent this week to 8,943,
according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.
Markets in  China  are shut this week for the National Day
holidays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  