-- 
Atlas Should Shrug at Millionaires’ Surtax Proposal: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-07T00:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/atlas-should-shrug-at-u-s-senate-proposal-for-millionaires-surtax-view.html
Class warfare leads nowhere. Taxes
must be a shared burden. Singling out one group or another does
nothing to repair the social fabric. It’s for this reason that
we question the Democrats’ latest idea of a millionaires’ surtax
to pay for President Barack Obama’s jobs plan, particularly
because it was presented in isolation.  But we also object to misinformation, and there have been
assertions associated with taxing the well-off that bear
scrutiny -- notably that taxing them will cost jobs.  It isn’t true. Don’t take our word for it; we know this is
so because of the work of Republican economists, who say little
evidence exists that increased income-tax rates dampen hiring.
If anything, the statistics point in the other direction: When
taxes have risen, so have the number of jobs.  Let’s back up. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, on Oct. 5 proposed a 5 percent surtax on anyone whose
income, whether earned or from investments, exceeds $1 million.
(The top marginal tax rate is currently 35 percent, and  capital
gains  are subject to a 15 percent levy.) The proposal would
generate $450 billion, enough to cover the cost of Obama’s jobs
package. Democrats challenged Republicans, who generally oppose
tax increases, to block the plan, knowing that recent polls show
most voters, Republican-leaning ones included, favor higher
taxes on the wealthy.  We’ll skip the partisan politics propelling the surtax
idea, and let others judge whether it has any chance of becoming
law, and move to the evidence behind the policy arguments. As
Bloomberg News has reported, experts including Joel B. Slemrod,
a  University of Michigan  professor who was senior tax economist
for  Ronald Reagan ’s  Council of Economic Advisers , say the data
don’t back up assertions that tax increases on the affluent
thwart growth and jobs.  Look what happened under President  Bill Clinton , when the
top marginal  tax rate  was raised to 39.6 percent from 31
percent. Almost 23 million jobs were created, versus the 1.1
million new jobs under  George W. Bush ’s lower-tax years. Even
more compelling: During the golden age of growth in the 1950s,
the top tax rate was as high as 91 percent.  Then there is the argument that raising taxes on the rich
will damage the small-business owners, many of whom pass their
enterprise profits through to their personal income, where it’s
taxed. By raising the top rate, the argument goes, entrepreneurs
will have less profit with which to expand and hire.  Not really. The No. 1 reason that small-business owners say
they’re not hiring is lack of consumer demand, not the burden of
taxes. Moreover, a U.S. Treasury Department study of 2007 tax
returns, released in August, concluded that only 8 percent of
income covered by the top two tax brackets (33 and 35 percent)
derived from small-business profits. More than half of small-
business earnings were reported by taxpayers in lower brackets,
the analysis found.  The proposition that tax cuts are always a net-plus for the
economy is equally iffy. Cuts that aren’t paid for, but instead
add to a large budget shortfall that must be financed, can
stifle economic growth, says Martin A. Sullivan, a former
Treasury Department tax economist who is now an analyst for Tax
Notes, a trade publication.  Although a higher levy on millionaires won’t hurt job
growth, it’s worth noting that there are taxation strategies
that can promote it. We believe that  job creation  can be spurred
by reducing payroll or income taxes on the poor and middle
class, who will spend the money on food, clothing and other
necessities. A Congressional Budget Office ranking found that
cutting taxes for low- and middle-income families was more than
twice as powerful in stimulating immediate demand as tax cuts
for the wealthy.  As Obama said yesterday, “Our economy really needs a jolt
right now.” September’s employment numbers, to be released
today, will probably underscore that sentiment. That jolt,
however, shouldn’t ignite class warfare. Yes, the money has to
come from somewhere. But we believe that “somewhere” should
include the middle class as well as the most fortunate among us.
The road to recovery depends on spreading the benefits and the
sacrifices equitably.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 