-- 
ATP of Denmark Snubs French, Italian Bonds for Collateral

-- B y   R a d i   K h a s a w n e h   a n d   N i c h o l a s   D u n b a r
-- 
2011-10-07T15:17:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/atp-of-denmark-snubs-french-italian-debt-as-funding-collateral.html
ATP, Denmark’s biggest pension fund,
said it renegotiated contracts to avoid having to accept top-
rated French sovereign bonds as collateral for funding.  The 711 billion-kroner ($122 billion) fund reworked swap
agreements to exclude the use of bonds sold by  France , Italy and
other southern European governments as collateral against equity
derivatives, interest-rate swaps and  repurchase agreements , or
repos, Chief Executive Officer Lars Rohde said. Hilleroed,
Denmark-based ATP holds 173 billion kroner of collateral,
according to its 2011 half-year report.  “We have changed the contracts,” Rohde said in an
interview with Bloomberg’s Risk Newsletter this week. “We put
ourselves in a position where we only receive the very highest
quality collateral, which is German, Danish and U.S.  government
bonds .”  The cost of insuring against default on French debt almost
trebled in the past six months amid concern the nation will lose
its top credit rating while having to bail out lenders hurt in
the sovereign crisis.  Italy , whose government-bond market is the
third-largest with 1.6 trillion euros ($2.2 trillion)
outstanding, was downgraded by Moody’s Investors Service for the
first time in almost two decades this week.  Funds’ demands to receive only a limited range of
government notes as collateral may make it harder for banks that
rely on pledging sovereign bonds to get money.  LCH.Clearnet  These demands are on top of a decision by LCH.Clearnet
Group Ltd. to impose a 5 percent initial margin increase on
Italian bonds used for repo loans, which took effect on Sept. 22
before being reversed a few days later. Clearinghouses charge an
initial margin to banks that want to use bonds to back repo
loans, and then apply a rate to the collateral to protect
members and manage risk.  The increases in margin were related to changes in the
volatility of government debt, according to  John Burke ,
LCH.Clearnet’s London-based director of fixed income. The
company has treated French and Italian debt in the same
volatility bracket, and is in the process of changing the
treatment based on higher volatility in Italian bonds.  “LCH is likely to increase Italian haircuts to the same
level as that of  Spain  in the near future,” Nikolaos Panigirtzoglou, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London ,
wrote in a Sept. 23 report.  Italian Investors  The largest holders of Italian government debt as of the
end of 2010 were  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , UniCredit SpA, and Monte
Dei Paschi di Siena SpA, according to European Banking Authority
stress-test disclosures and subsequent filings. The foreign
banks holding the most were  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and Franco-Belgian
municipal lender  Dexia SA. (DEXB)   Increased collateral requirements hit Irish bonds in
November, after LCH.Clearnet lifted the margin requirement on
the debt three times to 45 percent. Collateral increases for
Portuguese government bonds beginning in April this year
prompted yields to rise.  “LCH collateral requirements have been a pro-cyclical
factor in the case of Ireland and  Portugal ,” said  Laurent Fransolet , a fixed-income analyst at  Barclays Capital  in London.  Further changes will depend on market indicators, according
to LCH.Clearnet. The clearinghouse firm manages its collateral
requirements by monitoring downgrades, bond yields and  default
risk , according to a risk-management policy document published
in October 2010.  French Debt Swaps  Debt-insurance costs for European governments have surged
this year as the sovereign crisis that started in  Greece 
infected other countries in the euro region.  Credit-default swaps backing French government debt are at
173 basis points, up from 63 basis points on April 7, according
to CMA. Contracts on Italy are at 445 basis points, from 132
basis points.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting $10 million of debt for five years is
equivalent to $1,000 a year.  Investors demand an extra yield of 0.78 percentage point to
hold French 10-year notes instead of benchmark German debt,
compared with 0.31 percentage point in April. The spread on
Italian bonds is 3.6 percentage points, up from 1.32 percentage
points six months ago.  ‘Material’ Increases  LCH.Clearnet has said that trading at 4.5 percentage points
over a 10-year AAA blended benchmark would mean “material”
increases to its margin requirements.  “We are not in that territory for Italy yet,” said Don Smith, an economist at ICAP Securities in London. “That is an
onerous level that begins to undermine the quality of the asset
for holders.”  Spreads at that level may mean a 15 percent increase in
margin requirements, according to Smith.  Sovereign yields aren’t the determining factor in setting
margin requirements, LCH.Clearnet’s Burke said.  “We have discretion on establishing whether the yield has
pushed decisively to the level where we would apply a
significant increase to the sovereign risk framework margin,”
he said.  Concern is growing that France will lose its top  credit
rating  amid contagion from peripheral euro-region countries. The
rescue of Dexia prompted speculation the government will have to
bail out other banks.  Moody’s lowered Italy’s rating three levels on Oct. 4, to
A2 with a negative outlook from Aa2, the first time it
downgraded the country since May 1993.  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
nation’s rating on Sept. 20 for the first time in five years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radi Khasawneh in London at 
 Rkhasawneh1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Dunbar in London at 
 Ndunbar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Dunbar at 
 Ndunbar1@bloomberg.net  