-- 
Australia Has Scope to Cut Rates If Needed, IMF Staff Say

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-10-07T05:02:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/australia-has-ample-scope-to-cut-rates-if-needed-imf-staff-say.html
Australia’s central bank has “ample
scope” to cut  interest rates  and the government has room to
deploy fiscal stimulus in the event of another global financial
crisis, International Monetary Fund staff said today.  Australia’s economy will expand 1.8 percent this year,
accelerating to 3.3 percent in 2012, the IMF staff said in the
report, called an Article IV consultation, reiterating forecasts
made last month. Bolstered by Asian demand for commodities, the
outlook “remains favorable, despite global financial market
volatility in recent months,” it said.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia this week left its benchmark
rate unchanged at 4.75 percent, citing a “softer” labor market
and consumers who are “more concerned about the possibility of
unemployment rising.” The central bank signaled less concern
about wage pressure from a mining investment boom, and today’s
 IMF report  said the RBA concurred that it has room to lower
rates if necessary.  “The RBA has ample scope to cut the policy interest rate
and provide liquidity support to banks, which proved effective
in the global financial crisis,” the report said. “In
discussions with the mission, the RBA agreed that there is
considerable policy space to react to a downside scenario.”  Rate Survey  Three of 21 economists surveyed today by Bloomberg News
predict RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  will lower the overnight cash
rate target by a quarter percentage point to 4.5 percent at the
next policy meeting on Nov. 1. Eighteen expect no change.  Stevens hasn’t reduced borrowing costs since April 2009,
when he cut them to a 49-year low as the global economy slumped.  Should another slowdown in global growth occur, “the
exchange rate would likely depreciate, limiting the fall in
commodity prices in Australian dollars and providing stimulus to
the non-commodity tradable sector,” the IMF report said.  The local dollar has dropped 12 percent from its record-
high $1.1081 reached July 27 as speculation mounts that  Greece 
will default and spur a repeat of the 2008 credit freeze that
followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The
currency was little changed after today’s report, trading at
97.81 U.S. cents at 3:17 p.m. in Sydney.  “Staff estimates suggest an overvaluation of the
Australian real effective  exchange rate  by 10-20 percent from a
medium-term perspective,” the IMF said.  Rising Dollar  The local currency appreciated as the central bank boosted
rates seven times from October 2009 to November 2010 to a
developed-world high of 4.75 percent as it sought to contain
inflation spurred by resource investment.  Australia’s economy is being driven by a mining boom and
record terms of trade, or export prices relative to import
prices. At the same time, the nation’s recovery is uneven as
non-mining industries struggle with a high currency, the IMF
said.  Australian business and consumer confidence have weakened
in recent months in response to international financial turmoil
and the nation’s unemployment climbed to a 10-month high of 5.3
percent in August.  IMF staff said demand from  Asia  is reflected in the
construction of several large  iron ore  and liquefied natural gas
projects, which could raise private business investment to 50-
year highs in coming years. It forecast the  unemployment rate 
will fall gradually to 4.75 percent by 2012.  Inflation Worries  “While recent global financial market volatility has
increased uncertainty about the outlook, further increases in
the policy interest rate are likely to be needed to contain
inflation if the recovery remains on track,” the IMF staff
report said. “An exit from budget deficits is needed to
increase fiscal space and support monetary policy.”  Australia’s budget deficit was narrower than forecast in
the year through June as a reduction in spending more than
offset lower-than-estimated  tax revenue .  The shortfall was A$47.7 billion ($46.7 billion) in fiscal
2010-11, compared with the A$49.4 billion forecast in the May
budget, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said last week.  “Staff welcomed the authorities’ commitment to return to a
 budget surplus  by 2012/13, despite the negative impact of recent
natural disasters,” the IMF report said today.  Responding to the assessment, Swan said the IMF underscored
 Australia ’s low unemployment, strong fiscal position and
favorable medium-term prospects contrast with conditions in many
other developed nations.  “While we are not immune, the IMF confirms that our
successful response to the global financial crisis and strong
fundamentals mean we are better placed than most other advanced
economies to deal with the global instability,” he said in a
statement.  IMF staff also said model-based estimates indicate that
Australia house prices are overvalued by about 10 percent, from
a medium-term perspective.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  