-- 
Autlan, OGX, Petrobras, Walmex: Latin America Equity Preview

-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 
2011-10-07T06:51:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/autlan-ogx-petrobras-walmex-latin-america-equity-preview.html
The following companies may have
unusual price changes in Latin American trading. Stock symbols
are in parentheses and share prices reflect the previous close.  The MSCI Latin America Index rose 3.4 percent to 3,393.00.  Brazil   Light SA (LIGT3)  (LIGT3 BS): Brazil’s second-biggest electricity
distributor is studying the purchase of a minority stake in
Norte Energia SA, according to a statement to Brazil’s
regulator. Norte Energia is responsible for the construction and
future operation of a hydroelectric plant, according to the
statement. The stock retreated 0.9 percent to 24.35 reais.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3 BS): The  oil
company  controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista  signed a contract
with Shell Western Supply and Trading Ltd. for its first two
cargoes of oil produced from the Waimea field off Brazil’s
coast. The contract includes 1.2 million barrels of oil, OGX
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The shares rallied 4.4
percent to 11.28 reais.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  (PETR4 BS): Brazil’s state-
controlled oil company and  Venezuela ’s state oil company
Petroleos de Venezuela SA have until the end of the month to
reach an agreement on the construction of the Abreu e Lima
refinery in Pernambuco after Brazil’s development bank Banco
Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social accepted PDVSA’s
guarantee for financing, Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said
yesterday. The shares jumped 3.5 percent to 18.85 reais.  Chile   Cruz Blanca Salud SA (CRUZBLAN CC): Chile’s second-largest
health services provider registered a unit in  Peru  as part of an
international expansion plan, according to a statement posted on
the website of Chile’s securities regulator. The shares added
3.8 percent to 460 pesos.  Mexico   Cia. Minera Autlan SAB (AUTLANB MM):  North America ’s
largest manganese producer said third-quarter sales fell 5
percent and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, known as Ebitda, declined 35 percent from the same
period a year earlier amid lower magnesium prices and higher
electrical costs.  Sales rose 4 percent and Ebitda increased 6 percent
compared with the second quarter, Autlan said in a preliminary
earnings release with the Mexican stock exchange. The shares
slipped 0.1 percent to 13.56 pesos.  Consorcio Ara SAB (ARA* MM): Moody’s Investors Service
confirmed the company’s national scale issuer rating and the Ba2
global local currency issuer rating. The rating outlook remains
stable, Moody’s said. Shares of Mexico’s fourth-largest
homebuilder climbed 0.8 percent to 3.91 pesos.       Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB (WALMEXV MM):  Latin America ’s
largest retailer said same-store sales rose 4.2 percent in
September from a year earlier. Total sales for Mexico and
Central America were 29.1 billion pesos ($2.2 billion), the
company said in a statement to the Mexican stock exchange. The
shares rose 1.8 percent to 33.01 pesos.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  