-- 
Baht Set for First Weekly Gain in a Month on Inflows Into Stocks

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-10-07T01:37:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/baht-set-for-first-weekly-gain-in-a-month-on-inflows-into-stocks.html
Thailand’s baht strengthened, headed
for its first weekly advance in a month, and  government bonds 
rose after international investors added to holdings of the
nation’s assets.  The currency gained for a second day as exchange data
showed global funds purchased $94 million more Thai equities
than they sold this week through yesterday. The currency touched
a one-week high after Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said on
Oct. 4 the Bank of Thailand sold the dollar to curb volatility
in the foreign-exchange market. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of
shares climbed on optimism European officials will shield their
banks from the region’s debt crisis.  “With some optimism about the European issue, stocks have
been rising and investors are also buying back Thai equities,
helping to boost the baht,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a trader at
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in Bangkok. “Some Asian central
banks, not just  Thailand , seem to have been intervening and that
should also support currencies in the region.”  The baht strengthened 0.1 percent today and 0.2 percent
this week to 31.04 per dollar as of 8:03 a.m. in Bangkok,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched
30.98 earlier, the strongest level since Sept. 29. It may trade
between 30.90 and 31.20 next week, Hasegawa said.  Government bonds rallied for a second week after overseas
investors bought $51 million more local debt than they sold this
week through yesterday, adding to net purchases of $111 million
the previous week, according to data from the Thai Bond Market
Association.  The yield on the 3.65 percent notes due December 2021
dropped 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 3.63
percent this week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
rate rose two basis points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  