-- 
Bank of Japan Keeps Policy Unchanged

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   T h e r e s a   B a r r a c l o u g h
-- 
2011-10-07T04:23:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/bank-of-japan-keeps-policy-unchanged.html
The Bank of  Japan  held off from
adding more monetary stimulus as it studied whether a yen near
post-World War II highs and slowing growth abroad were damping
the economy’s recovery.  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his policy board members
kept the overnight lending rate between zero and 0.1 percent at
a meeting in Tokyo today, the central bank said in a statement.
The vote was unanimous. They also left credit and asset-buying
programs totaling 50 trillion yen ($652 billion) unchanged,
while extending a loan program in earthquake-affected areas.  European policy makers moved yesterday to calm concern that
the region’s debt crisis will worsen, with the  European Central
Bank  to buy covered bonds again and the  Bank of England  boosting
asset purchases. In Japan, an improvement in manufacturers’
sentiment and a rebound in vehicle sales may have encouraged the
central bank to stand pat even as the yen’s strength threatens
exports. Shirakawa calls existing easing measures “powerful.”  “There have been no bad data that would justify further
easing by the BOJ,” Jin Kenzaki, vice president of economics at
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. in Tokyo, said before the
announcement. “However, it’s a fact that the yen is
strengthening, so they may start to talk about easing.”  The yen traded at 76.63 versus the dollar as of 12:42 p.m.
in Tokyo, little changed from its level before the announcement.
The currency touched a postwar high of 75.95 on Aug. 19. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.6 percent on optimism European
officials will take steps to protect banks from the region’s
crisis.  Analyst Expectations  Twelve out of the 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predicted the central bank will keep monetary policy unchanged
at today’s meeting. One analyst saw a 50 percent chance of
further stimulus and another expected the BOJ to extend the
maturity of bonds it buys under its asset purchase program.  The BOJ also said it has extended by six months to April 30
a 1 trillion yen lending program to help companies hurt by the
March 11 temblor.  Policy makers elsewhere are focusing on maintaining growth
over damping price increases, with the  Federal Reserve  easing
policy two months in a row, while central banks in  Malaysia  and
 South Korea  have refrained from raising  interest rates .  The Tankan index of sentiment at large manufacturers rose
to 2 in September from minus 9 in June, the  Bank of Japan  said
on Oct. 3, meaning that optimists now outnumber pessimists.  The survey “showed that Japanese companies have recovered
90 percent from earthquake,” said Masaaki Kanno, chief Japan
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co and a former BOJ official.  Vehicle Sales  Toyota Motor Corp., Japan’s largest automaker, led a 1.7
percent gain in domestic vehicle sales in September, the first
increase in 13 months, according to data from the Japan
Automobile Dealers Association.  Other recent economic reports underscored Shirakawa’s
remark in parliament this week that Japan’s economic state and
outlook are “very severe.” Industrial production, exports and
retail sales figures released last month all were worse than the
median forecasts of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its forecast for Japan’s
growth to 2.1 percent from 2.5 percent in the fiscal year
starting April 2012 and to 0.1 percent from 0.2 percent for this
fiscal year, due to a slowdown in global expansion, it said in a
report this week.  Yen Forecast  Threatening to undermine export growth is a yen rate that
remains stronger than large manufacturers’ forecasts. They see
it trading at 81.15 per dollar on average in the year ending
March 31, according to the Tankan survey. The euro’s decline to
a decade low against the yen this month also pressures
exporters’ earnings.  Sony Corp. (6758)  is “especially concerned” about the weakness
in the euro, Vice Chairman Ryoji Chubachi said this week at an
industry convention near Tokyo. A continued drop in the currency
would cause “trouble worldwide,” Toshiyuki Shiga, chief
operating officer of Nissan Motor Co., said at the same
convention.  In response to the yen’s gains, the BOJ on Aug. 4 expanded
to 15 trillion yen from 10 trillion yen a program to buy assets
from  government bonds  to exchange-traded funds. It also
increased a fund to encourage banks to lend to 35 trillion yen
from 30 trillion yen.  The moves have failed to stem the advance in the Japanese
currency, which has climbed almost 3 percent since then.  Opposition Proposals  In a sign of mounting political pressure on the BOJ to do
more to alleviate the economic pain caused by the strong yen,
Japan’s largest opposition party yesterday called on the BOJ to
increase its asset-buying fund by 10 trillion yen to 25 trillion
yen. The  Liberal Democratic Party  also urged it to adopt an
inflation target, according to a document obtained from LDP
lawmaker Naokazu Takemoto.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s government has earmarked
$100 billion to cope with the stronger yen, including subsidies
for companies. The ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan proposed
last week a 12 trillion yen stimulus package to support an
economy recovering from the record temblor in March that
devastated the northeast coast of Japan and triggered the worst
nuclear crisis since Chernobyl.  Highlighting the challenges Japan faces in securing
overseas demand, the  International Monetary Fund  last month cut
its global growth forecast to 4 percent for this year and next.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in  Tokyo  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Theresa Barraclough in Tokyo at 
 tbarraclough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  