-- 
Bank of America Hands Krawcheck $6 Million Severance

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-10-08T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/bank-of-america-gives-krawcheck-6-million-severance-package-after-ouster.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the lender
seeking to trim expenses by eliminating at least 30,000 jobs,
will pay former wealth-management division head Sallie L. Krawcheck $6 million after her dismissal last month.  That sum includes one year of her former salary, or
$850,000, and a one-time payment of $5.15 million to be awarded
in 2012, the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank said yesterday
in a filing.  Joseph Price , whose position was also eliminated,
gets a $5 million package, the bank said.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  ousted Krawcheck
and Price in September as part of his effort to streamline the
biggest  U.S. bank  amid mortgage-related losses and a 56 percent
share decline this year. His target is to reduce annual costs at
consumer banking units by $5 billion, mostly through job cuts.  “This is yet another story about a corporate executive
getting significant amounts of money after they’ve left their
employer,” said Richard Lipstein, a managing director for
headhunter  Boyden Global  Executive Search. “She was part of a
restructuring that eliminated a layer of management; at her
level, there are certain obligations that have to be fulfilled
if you leave for non-cause.”  Price, 50, ran consumer banking and credit cards. Just like
Krawcheck, 46, he will get $850,000 in installment payments, and
his one-time award of $4.15 million is contingent upon not
breaching a contract with the lender.  The executives agreed to release Bank of America from
claims, and to refrain from competing with the firm, soliciting
employees or luring away customers for one year. They will
receive health care benefits until the agreement expires in
2012, the bank said.  Krawcheck also stepped down from the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority’s board of governors, said  Nancy Condon , a
spokeswoman for the brokerage-industry watchdog, declining to
elaborate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  