-- 
Barclays Planning Tokyo Dark Pool, Daiwa Sees Expansion in Asia

-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 
2011-10-07T04:11:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/barclays-planning-tokyo-dark-pool-daiwa-sees-expansion-in-asia.html
Barclays Plc plans to open its first
Asian dark pool in Tokyo, and Daiwa Securities Capital Markets
Co. is looking to expand into Hong Kong and  Singapore , as
popularity of the off-exchange trading platforms increases.  The Barclays venue will target international clients
trading in Japan and expand to domestic users, according to
 Michael Kim , head of equities electronic trading in the Asia-
Pacific region at Barclays Capital Inc. in Hong Kong. Barclays
is seeking regulatory approval for the dark pool and doesn’t
know when it will open, Kim said.  “In Japan, while dark pools are a real factor, they are
still in the early stage of growth,” Kim said in a telephone
interview on Sept. 28. “We’re going to employ a lot of the
logic that is currently used in our U.S. dark pool, but we have
to localize it to meet the various differences around market
behavior, liquidity and regulation that exist in  Japan .”  Dark pools are private venues for trading securities that
don’t publicly display bids and offers. The platforms, designed
for mutual funds and other large investors who would rather not
use public exchanges where traders may sniff out and exploit
their intentions, are expanding in Japan after growing in
popularity in the U.S.  No more than 2 percent of trading in Asia occurs through
dark pools, according to  Investment Technology Group Inc. (ITG) , a New
York-based brokerage. That compares with 12.1 percent of U.S.
trading in June and 2.7 percent in Europe, according to data
from New York-based brokerage Rosenblatt Securities Inc.  Reporting Rules  Rules that require trades done outside exchanges to be
reported to a system called Tostnet, operated by the Tokyo Stock
Exchange, have boosted interest in dark pools among institutions,
Joseph Sarcona, head of electronic trading for Asia-Pacific at
Morgan Stanley in  Hong Kong , said in a telephone interview on
Sept. 28.  Having the extra layer of transparency and accountability
has made local institutions more comfortable with the concept.
When dark pools were first launched in Japan about five years
ago, the trades didn’t have to be reported.  Bank of America Corp., BNP Paribas SA, Citigroup Inc.,
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) , Daiwa, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Instinet Group Inc., Liquidnet Holdings Inc., Morgan Stanley,
Nomura Holdings Inc., and UBS AG operate dark pools in Japan.  Investment Technology Group Inc.’s platform, POSIT
Marketplace, which allows clients to access multiple dark pools
through one point, was launched in Japan last month.  Hong Kong, Singapore  Chi-East, a joint venture of Chi-X Global Inc. and
 Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , matches Japanese, Hong Kong and
Singapore stocks. The system allows clients to access dark-pool
trading in Japan even if they are not located there.  In Hong Kong, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Citigroup,
Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs, Instinet,
Liquidnet, Morgan Stanley, Nomura and ITG’s POSIT have dark
pools.  In  Australia , they are operated by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, Liquidnet,
Morgan Stanley and ITG’s POSIT. Singapore’s dark-pool operators
include Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Liquidnet and Goldman Sachs.  Daiwa, a Tokyo-based broker, has operated the Daiwa Routing
& Execution Crossing Technology, or DRECT, dark pool in Japan
since last November.  David DeGraw, a director in electronic trading services for
Daiwa in  Tokyo , said in a telephone interview on Sept. 27 that
the company plans to expand this technology into Hong Kong and
Singapore from next year.  ‘Tremendous Interest’  “Since the launch of DRECT, we have seen tremendous
interest from the domestic client base to use our dark pool,”
Degraw said. “We are roughly halfway through on-boarding the
large domestic client base with the rest targeting year-end to
come on board.”  Singapore has lagged behind Japan, Hong Kong and Australia
when it comes to the growth of dark pools because of regulations
in the country.  “There is a minimum cross size of 50,000 shares or
S$150,000 ($116,000), which restricts the amount of orders
eligible for crossing,” Morgan Stanley’s Sarcona said. “We are
optimistic that the exchange and regulator will in due time
review the benefits crossing brings to price and liquidity
improvement for end-investors, and adjust this requirement
accordingly.”  Morgan Stanley has had dark pools in Japan since 2007, Hong
Kong since 2008 and Australia since 2010. Sarcona said the
introduction of more dark pools to the market will increase the
volume of orders crossed, the liquidity and the benefits of the
venue to the end user.  “Increasing the efficient use of dark pools will help the
trading community deal with the two most important factors in
trading  Asia , which is spread and liquidity,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John McCluskey  at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net . 