-- 
BC Partners Said to Plan Fitness First Gym Chain Sale in Asia, Australia

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-10-07T00:58:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/bc-partners-said-to-plan-sale-of-fitness-first-network-in-asia-australia.html
BC Partners Ltd. , the London-based
private equity firm, plans to sell its Fitness First Ltd. chain
in  Asia  and  Australia  in an auction that may raise about A$1
billion ($975 million), said a person familiar with the matter.  Initial bids are due this month, the person said, declining
to be identified because the sale hasn’t been announced. Fitness
First has about 165 gyms and more than 400,000 members in Asia
and Australia, the person said.  Fitness First, which started with one club in the U.K. in
1993, this week delayed an initial public offering in  Singapore 
because of volatile equity markets, according to people familiar
with the matter. BC Partners bought the business in 2005 for
about 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) from private-equity firm
Cinven Ltd. The health company operates in markets including
 Hong Kong , the Philippines, Malaysia and Singapore.  A message left in  London  with Tulchan Communications, which
handles press enquiries for BC Partners, wasn’t immediately
returned. A spokeswoman at Kreab Gavin Anderson in Singapore,
which manages communications for Fitness First, declined to
comment on the sale.  Any buyer may pay seven times the Asian and Australian
operations’ earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization of A$150 million, or more than A$1 billion,
according to the Australian Financial Review, which reported the
proposed sale earlier today.  Fitness First had been weighing plans to raise about $500
million in a Singapore listing, two people with knowledge of the
matter said in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  