-- 
Belka Says Fund Exodus Might Overcome Polish Firepower on Zloty

-- B y   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 
2011-10-07T14:48:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/belka-says-fund-exodus-might-overcome-polish-firepower-on-zloty.html
While  Poland  has the “firepower” to
act on  currency markets , it may have to live with a weaker zloty
if investors continue to pull out of emerging markets, central
bank Governor Marek Belka was quoted today as saying on the
Narodowy Bank Polski’s  Obserwatorfinansowy.pl  website.  Belka’s comments published in the article are below.  On the zloty:  “We’re seeing not just hedge funds, but long-term
investors, withdrawing from emerging markets, including Poland.
We’re monitoring the situation because if this process
continues, we’ll have to accept further zloty depreciation.”  On central bank intervention:  “In a matter of days the zloty fell from 4.40 against the
euro to 4.53. In normal times we’d be calling this a currency
crash. Our three interventions were designed to show that we’re
not acting randomly and that we have the firepower to use.  ‘‘We’re not going to defend any specified exchange rate. If
the trend is going to be that certain types of capital are being
withdrawn from emerging markets, including ours, than there’s
not much we’ll be able to do. The only thing we can accomplish
is to ensure that the process is orderly and that speculation
doesn’t get too feverish.”  On foreign financing of Polish banks:  “About 14 percent of domestic lending is financed via
credit lines from parent banks or is obtained on the European
 interbank market . This financing isn’t stable. If we’re
concerned about increasing domestic lending, Poles should save
more. We have a low domestic savings rate. One can say that
Poles save about 10 percent of their income.  ‘‘I wouldn’t accept an expansion of domestic credit funded
from outside the Polish banking system. I’d prefer less access
to credit than dependency on foreign financing and an
increasingly unstable currency.”  On the economy:  “Poland has a chance to buck a global downturn as it did
in 2009 if there isn’t a drastic deterioration in local business
sentiment. We won’t avoid a dip in growth, but it doesn’t have
to be as deep as those in neighboring markets. Besides, if the
market consensus is pointing to gross domestic product growth of
more than 3 percent this year, this is no tragedy, although
after the results in 2010 and 2011, it would be hard to call it
good news.”  On “super-ambitious” government budget plans:  “This will involve a fiscal tightening of about 5
percentage points of GDP over two years. If it succeeds, one
could call Poland the budget-cut leader. But there’s the
question of whether curbing the deficit on this scale is
possible during a slowdown. True, the budget situation this year
is comfortable, but that’s mainly due to one-time factors such
as a reduction of transfers to privately managed pension funds.  ‘‘One also has to keep in mind so-called market
perceptions. If this year’s  budget deficit  were close to 8
percent of GDP instead of 5.5 percent, the economy would be
expanding at a 6 percent rate. But the consequences for the
current-account deficit and the zloty would be terrible. If
Poland turned out to have a problem with its budget deficit or
its external deficit, the market’s negative reaction could be
blown out of all proportion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McQuaid in Warsaw at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at   htromm@bloomberg.net  