-- 
Blackstone’s James Says Deals Slow as Financing Costs Rise

-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-10-07T18:25:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/blackstone-s-james-says-lbos-will-slow-as-financing-costs-rise.html
Tony James , president of  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , said the pace of leveraged buyouts will slow because
of an increase in financing costs.  “The pipeline is skinnier,” James said today in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in  Delaware  City, Delaware,
where Blackstone is opening an  oil refinery  it owns through PBF
Energy, a three-year-old venture with private-equity firm First
Reserve Corp. “Financing is expensive, prices are down. If you
don’t have to sell your company, you don’t do it when prices are
low.”  The value of global LBOs in the third quarter fell 33
percent to $23.2 billion from the second quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, amid signs that banks were hesitant
to finance deals because of  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and a
slowdown in U.S. economic growth.  Buyout firms typically use loans secured on the targets
they acquire to finance more than half of the purchase price and
cash from their own funds for the rest. The firms seek to
improve performance at the companies they acquire or expand them
before selling them within about five years.  Sales of  junk bonds  have stalled as the lowest-ranked debt,
rated in the CCC tier or below, suffers its worst losses since
credit markets froze after the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. There were no high-yield offerings in the
U.S. this week and issuance of the debt has fallen short of the
2011 average for 10 consecutive periods, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  No Exits  Volatility in equity markets and questions around
governments’ abilities to deal with deficits are also hampering
firms’ abilities to sell businesses they own. James said
investors need more certainty to proceed.  “One thing we need is clarity of leadership,” James, 60,
said. “The uncertainty, the divided  Washington , it creates a
lack of confidence.”  As a result, distributions of profits to pensions,
endowments and sovereign-wealth funds, the primary backers of
buyout funds, have slowed.  “Investors will get their capital back eventually,” James
said. “They’ll have to wait. Meanwhile it’s earning a return,
it’s not dead capital.”  Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm, has
invested about $5 billion in the energy and natural-resources
industries. KKR & Co. and Apollo Global Management LLC, two of
the firm’s biggest rivals, are also targeting oil and gas as a
slowing economy and rising financing costs make traditional
corporate buyouts more expensive.  Jobs in Maine  The Delaware City facility was PBF’s first investment,
purchased from Valero Energy Corp. in June 2010. James was on
hand, along with Delaware Governor Jack Markell and First
Reserve’s Tim Day, for a ceremonial ribbon cutting.  Valero, based in  San Antonio , shut the refinery in 2009.
PBF spent $450 million on renovations, including steps to reduce
carbon dioxide emissions by as much as 35 percent. The
processing plant has about 500 full-time employees and 250
contract workers, and has a capacity of 190,000 barrels a day.  Blackstone Chairman  Stephen Schwarzman , 64, told investors
on a conference call in July that energy “has been a
spectacularly successful place for us,” noting that the firm
had never lost money on an energy deal.  Blackstone oversees $159 billion in assets across buyout
investments,  hedge funds  and real estate.  KKR, also based in  New York , earlier this year sold Hilcorp
Resources Holdings LP in a deal that almost tripled its $400
million investment.  Blackstone said in a separate statement that it had
committed $3 million through its foundation to fund businesses
in  Maine , with the goal of adding 10,000 jobs during the next
decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  