-- 
BP Sells North Sea Forties Crude; Elgin-Franklin Fields Restart

-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-10-07T16:46:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/bp-sells-north-sea-forties-crude-elgin-franklin-fields-restart.html
BP Plc sold a cargo of  North Sea 
Forties crude to Royal Dutch Shell Plc. Total SA restarted its
Elgin-Franklin oil and natural-gas fields after the Elgin
platform was halted yesterday because of a technical fault.  Indian Oil Corp., the country’s biggest refiner, issued a
tender seeking to buy low-sulfur crude oil loading in December.  North Sea  Forties crude traded from BP to Shell for Oct. 20 to Oct.
22 loading, according to a survey of traders and brokers
monitoring the Platts trading window. The consignment was sold
at a premium of 60 cents a barrel to the cash cost of North Sea
crudes for November. That compares with BP’s offers yesterday
for late-October Forties shipments at premiums of $1.11, 96
cents and 97 cents a barrel.  Reported North Sea trading typically occurs during the
Platts window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Before the
window, Forties loading in 10 to 21 days was at 71 cents a
barrel more than Dated Brent, down from 95 cents yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brent for November settlement traded at $105.87 a barrel on
the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange at the close of the
window, up from $103.23 yesterday. The December contract was at
$104.19 a barrel, $1.68 less than November.  Total said its North Sea Elgin-Franklin oil and gas fields
started after a fault halted production.  “Elgin-Franklin restarted this morning and we are now
ramping back up to normal production levels,”  Brian O’Neill , an
Aberdeen, Scotland-based company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Mediterranean/Urals  OAO Lukoil’s trading unit Litasco failed to buy a 100,000-
metric ton cargo of Russian Urals crude in northwest Europe at a
$1 discount to Dated Brent.  The last offer for the grade in the Mediterranean was on
Oct. 5, when Shell didn’t manage to sell an 80,000 metric-ton
shipment at a discount of 50 cents a barrel to Dated Brent, the
survey of Platts showed.  OMV AG booked a 1 million-barrel oil tanker to sail from
 Libya  to  Italy  in mid-October, according to four shipbroker
reports. The Vienna-based energy company, which is the largest
in  Central Europe , hired the Valtamed to ship crude from Libya
to Trieste, Italy, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The vessel, scheduled to load on Oct. 15, was chartered for
the cross-Mediterranean voyage at a rate of 95 industry-standard
Worldscale points, Athens-based Optima Shipbrokers Ltd. said in
a report yesterday. Optima didn’t specify the ship’s cargo.  West Africa  Indian Oil Corp. sought to buy crude for December,
according to official documents obtained by Bloomberg News. Last
month, the company bought 7 million barrels of West African
crude for loading in November via two tenders.  Nigerian benchmark Qua Iboe was at a $3.58 a barrel premium
to Dated Brent, compared with $3.63 yesterday, Bloomberg data
showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  