-- 
Advisers Suggest Less Generous Health Plans

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-10-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/business-groups-win-support-as-u-s-advisers-back-health-limits.html
Health plans sold to the uninsured
shouldn’t cover more benefits than the typical program offered
by small business when provisions of the health-care law take
effect, advisers said in a report for the Obama administration.  The U.S.  Institute of Medicine ’s recommendation favors
business groups and insurers who have sought a narrow package of
required benefits because of concerns the plans would be too
costly, said Neil Trautwein, vice president for the  National
Retail Federation . The U.S. should limit premiums to levels no
higher than what small businesses pay on average and choose
benefits “within the context of financial constraints,”
according to the 297-page report released yesterday.  Small businesses tend to offer less generous medical
benefits than larger companies. Trade groups for companies such
as  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  have lobbied against a broad
package of benefits, saying workers may drop their employers’
plans when provisions of the law take effect in 2014.  The recommendation “is the appropriate tack to take since
the objective is to cover everyone with at least basic
benefits,” Trautwein said in a telephone interview.  The issue has pitted businesses against patient advocacy
groups such as the  American Cancer Society , which argues for
robust coverage. The law required insurance plans to cover 10
broad categories of care, including hospitalization, mental
health and pediatrics starting in 2014 and left details to
Obama’s health secretary,  Kathleen Sebelius . Sebelius asked the
 Institute of Medicine , a nonprofit that advises the U.S. on
health issues, to recommend a way to select the benefits that
should be included in the plans.  Employer lobby groups argue that a generous package of
benefits would cause workers to desert plans offered by
companies, forcing employers to pay fines and raise premiums as
the number of people covered by their health plans dwindles.  Small Business Standard  The institute said Sebelius should start with a package of
benefits that mirrors what small businesses offer their
employees. She should set a “premium target” for the benefits
that equals what small businesses would pay, on average, in
2014, according to the report. Then she can select benefits to
meet the target, a process the institute likened to shopping for
groceries under a budget.  “If the package of essential health benefits gets too
comprehensive it quickly becomes unaffordable,” said John Ball,
chairman of the institute committee that wrote the report, said
in a telephone interview. Ball has been a hospital administrator
and was an aide to former President  Jimmy Carter .  Effect on Disabled  Modeling the benefits on health plans offered by small
companies may leave services important to people with
disabilities uncovered, said Peter Thomas, a lawyer at Powers,
Pyles, Sutter & Verville in Washington who co-chairs the health
task force of the Consortium for Citizens with Disabilities, an
advocacy group.  “It’s clear that a large employer plan would be of greater
assistance” to disabled people or the chronically ill, he said
in a telephone interview.  Congressional staff who helped write the health law told
Ball’s committee that they intended the benefits to be based on
large-employer plans, and the committee’s recommendation
“stands in stark contrast” to that testimony, Thomas said.  The decision to base benefits on small-employer plans “is
an important step toward maintaining affordability” said  Karen Ignagni , president and CEO of America’s Health Insurance Plans,
a Washington trade group, in a statement.  Public Meetings  The government will soon issue a list of required benefits,
Sebelius said in a statement yesterday. Her department will
first hold meetings nationwide to take public comment on the
issue, another of the institute’s recommendations, she said.  “These conversations will help us ensure that every
American can access quality, affordable health coverage they can
rely on,” Sebelius, secretary of the  U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services, said in the statement.  The meetings could become a “feeding frenzy process,”
Trautwein said, by people who want coverage of specific
conditions and services.  “I applaud them for the intent and worry about what
happens in reality,” he said. Sebelius could try to “shove the
kitchen sink” into the benefits package regardless of the limit
on premiums.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim in Washington at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 