-- 
California Says Build America Bond Refi Cleared by IRS

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-10-07T20:26:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/california-says-build-america-bond-refinancing-cleared-by-irs.html
California  won’t lose federal
subsidies by refinancing Build America Bonds that have variable
 interest rates , according to Treasurer Bill Lockyer’s office,
which cited assurances from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.  When it sells $2 billion of general-obligation bonds this
month, California plans to remarket $133 million in Build
America Bonds sold in a 2009 private offering to the Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Under President
 Barack Obama ’s economic-stimulus program, 35 percent of the
interest on the debt is federally subsidized. Sales of the
taxable securities ended last year when the program expired.  State- and local-government borrowers must comply with IRS
rules or risk losing the subsidy. California said the agency
assured it that reoffering the debt wouldn’t be considered a new
bond deal, which would have placed the subsidy at risk. The
issue hinged on technical ways that floating-rate bonds subject
to periodic resales are classified for tax purposes.  “We are obviously very pleased with the IRS ruling,” said
 Tom Dresslar , a Lockyer spokesman.  The agency’s decision may not affect many other state and
local governments, said Perry  Israel , a Sacramento-based bond
lawyer who read the letter from the IRS.  While almost $188 billion of the subsidized debt was sold
in 2009 and 2010, all but $1.6 billion of it carried fixed
interest rates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I would say there was not a lot of variable-rate BABs,”
Israel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  