-- 
California Teachers Pension Fund to Seek Increase From Taxpayers

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-10-07T01:20:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/california-teachers-pension-fund-to-seek-increase-from-taxpayers.html
Executives with the California State
Teachers Retirement System said now is the most politically
opportune time to ask for a rise in taxpayers’ contributions
toward employee pension benefits, to fix a widening funding gap.  The second-largest fund in the U.S., with $146.6 billion of
assets as of Sept. 30, wants to include the increase in a
pension proposal Governor  Jerry Brown  has said he plans to roll
out possibly as early as this month, said Chief Executive
Officer Jack Ehnes. The rise would be the first in 21 years and
may be as much as 14 percent, though that likely would be phased
in incrementally, he said.  Calstrs, as the fund is known, saw its unfunded liability
more than double since 2008 to $56 billion, in part because of
investment losses, leaving it without enough money to pay future
costs. That’s something that state Auditor Elaine Howle has said
is a “high-risk issue” since California is on the hook for the
difference.  “We think we’re at the right moment where it’s time to
move on the funding strategy politically,” Ehnes said at a
board retreat in  Huntington Beach . “We’re going to see where we
come out on this. There may be competing priorities, educational
and otherwise.”  Any increase could be divided among teachers, districts and
the state, Ehnes said. Calstrs hasn’t expressed a preference as
to how the burden should be spread.  Contribution Rates  Contribution rates for teachers and school districts
haven’t changed since 1990. Teachers  pay  8 percent of their
income toward retirement. Districts add 8.25 percent; the
state’s share is 2.017 percent.  Without additional state funding, the  pension plan  may run
out of money in the early 2040s, Calstrs said in April.  The fund in January 2010 said it would wait until this year
to seek a rate increase from the Legislature because lawmakers
at the time wouldn’t have been receptive while trying to find a
way to erase a $20 billion gap in the state budget.  “What’s different now is that people are getting their
arms around the funding situation,” Ehnes said.  Increased public attention to the growing costs of
government-worker retirement benefits and to pay-to-play
scandals at other pensions also would have made it more
difficult to win contribution increases before 2011, the fund
said at the time.  Brown’s office didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
requesting comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  