-- 
California Pot-Clinic Crackdown Threatens $1 Billion Industry

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-10-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/california-pot-clinic-crackdown-threatens-1-billion-industry.html
A U.S. Justice Department crackdown
aimed at the landlords of California’s medical-marijuana
dispensaries threatens an industry that, by state estimates,
generates as much as $1.3 billion in annual sales.  In  Los Angeles  alone, there were 638 dispensaries last year
before a city restriction forced many to close, according to a
Rand Corp.  study  Sept. 21. The state health department has
issued medical marijuana  identification  cards to almost 57,000
people since 2004, though the cards aren’t required.  About 400,000 Californians use marijuana on a daily basis,
consuming as much as 1 million pounds each year, according to
the  Board of Equalization , the state’s tax administrator. Sales
taxes amount to as much as $105 million annually, said Anita Gore, a spokeswoman.  “There are literally tens of thousands of legal jobs that
have been created by the medical-marijuana industry in
California,” said Dale Gieringer, who runs the  California 
office of NORML, the  National Organization for Reform of
Marijuana Laws .  Lynnette Shaw, owner of  Marin Alliance for Medical
Marijuana , a dispensary north of San Francisco she claims is the
oldest licensed in the U.S., said her landlord received a letter
from federal prosecutors on Sept. 29.  “It was very ominous,” Shaw said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “It informed him there was medical-marijuana
dispensing on his site, and that he had 45 days to evict us, or
possibly face 40 years in jail, forfeiture of the property and
any money we had given him.”  Coordinated Crackdown  Lauren Horwood, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Benjamin Wagner in  Sacramento , said in an e-mail that her office had sent
similar letters.  “We are initiating similar communications to selected
property owners,” Horwood said. “We will be in a position to
say more in the near future.”  The U.S. attorneys for the four federal districts in
California are conducting a coordinated crackdown on medical
marijuana dispensaries this week, according to a law-enforcement
official who wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly.
The effort is limited to California, the official said.  Last year, when California voters were asked to approve a
ballot measure to legalize marijuana for personal use, U.S.
Attorney General Eric Holder threatened to “vigorously”
prosecute possession and distribution if the referendum won.  The proposition failed even in Humboldt, Trinity and
Mendocino counties in northern California, identified in a Rand
report last year as the center of the state’s pot production.  First to Legalize  California was the first state to permit marijuana
consumption for medical purposes when voters approved a 1996
ballot measure. Sixteen states and the  District of Columbia  have
now legalized its use, according to NORML.  Dispensaries regularly advertise in newspapers such as L.A.
Weekly.  Hempcon , a trade show for the marijuana industry, is
scheduled for the San Jose Convention Center in mid-November,
with seminars on hydroponics and defending crops against pests.  Marijuana sales remain illegal under federal law and many
dispensaries in California violate even state rules that forbid
making money from distribution, according to Mark Kleiman, a
professor of public policy at the  University of California , Los
Angeles.  “Most are private, for-profit entities,” he said in a
telephone interview.  Cities including Los Angeles and Berkeley have taken steps
to license and regulate dispensaries, although those efforts may
be endangered by a state appeals court ruling Oct. 4.  Appellate Court Ruling  The court decided that  Long Beach  couldn’t proceed with a
dispensary-permitting plan because cities “are preempted by
federal law from doing anything that would facilitate the
distribution of marijuana,” according to Michael Mais,
assistant city attorney.  The City Council will discuss the ruling next week, Mais
said, and could decide to appeal to the state  Supreme Court .
Permitting is on hold, he said, as is a similar registration
effort in Los Angeles, according to Frank Mateljan, a spokesman
for City Attorney Carmen Trutanich.  Kris Hermes, a spokesman for Oakland-based Americans for
Safe Access, which advocates policies to make it easier for
patients to get pot, said closing dispensaries may boost crime.  ‘Quite Alarmed’  “We’re quite alarmed by this renewed federal effort to
crack down on facilities that in most cases, are either
licensed, or at the very least, complying with local and state
laws,” Hermes said in a telephone interview. “You’re talking
about hundreds of thousands of patients being without
medication, with really nowhere to turn except the illicit
market.”  Steve DeAngelo, executive director of Oakland-based
 Harborside Health Center , said his dispensary is the largest in
the U.S., with $22 million in annual revenue, and he has no
intention of going out of business.  “There’s nothing that anyone can do to stop me from
providing this medicine to people who need it,” DeAngelo said
in an interview. “Unless they lock me up, chain me down, and
put me in a box, I will keep on doing this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  