-- 
California Teachers Pension Fund Will Seek Taxpayer Rate Boost

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-10-07T04:28:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/california-teachers-pension-fund-will-seek-boost-in-taxpayer-contributions.html
The  California  State Teachers’
Retirement System, the second-largest U.S. public pension, said
now is the best time to ask lawmakers for an increase in
taxpayer contributions toward employee pension benefits.  Calstrs, as the $146.6 billion fund is known, wants to
include the step in a pension proposal Governor  Jerry Brown  has
said he plans to roll out as early as this month, said Jack Ehnes, the system’s chief executive officer. The increase would
be the first in 21 years and may be as much as 14 percent,
though that likely would be phased in over years, he said.  The pension’s unfunded liability, or what it will owe
compared with projected assets, has more than doubled since 2008
to $56 billion, in part because of investment losses. That’s
something that state Auditor Elaine Howle has said is a “high-
risk issue” since California is on the hook for the difference.  “We think we’re at the right moment where it’s time to
move on the funding strategy politically,” Ehnes said yesterday
at a board meeting in  Huntington Beach . “We’re going to see
where we come out on this. There may be competing priorities,
educational and otherwise.”  Any increase could be divided among teachers, districts and
the state, Ehnes said. The fund hasn’t expressed a preference as
to how the burden should be spread.  Contribution Rates  Contribution rates for teachers and school districts
haven’t changed since 1990. Teachers  pay  8 percent of their
salaries toward retirement. Districts add 8.25 percent of pay,
and the state pitches in 2.017 percent.  Without additional revenue, the  pension plan  may run out of
money in the early 2040s, managers said in April, citing an
actuarial report.  The fund in January 2010 said it would wait until this year
to seek a rate increase from taxpayers because lawmakers at the
time wouldn’t have been receptive while trying to find a way to
erase a $20 billion gap in the state budget.  “What’s different now is that people are getting their
arms around the funding situation,” Ehnes said.  Increased public attention to the growing costs of
government-worker retirement benefits and to pay-to-play
scandals at other pensions also would have made it more
difficult to win contribution increases before this year, the
fund’s overseers said in early 2010.  Three Brown representatives didn’t immediately respond to
e-mailed messages requesting comment on an increase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Huntington Beach, California at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  