-- 
U.S. Takes Aim at California’s $1 Billion Marijuana Dispensaries

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-10-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/california-pot-clinic-crackdown-focuses-on-landlords-u-s-prosecutors-say.html
Federal prosecutors say they’re using
property seizures and criminal charges to crack down on
 California ’s commercial medical-marijuana dispensaries,
threatening a billion-dollar industry.  The top U.S. prosecutors in California said they’re
responding to “explosive” growth in the state’s marijuana
trade, which feeds national distribution by people with criminal
backgrounds. The industry corrupted the intent of a 1996
referendum that made California the first state to permit
marijuana use for medical purposes, the U.S. Attorneys in Los
Angeles, Sacramento,  San Diego  and  San Francisco  said yesterday.  About 400,000 Californians use pot on a daily basis,
according to the Board of Equalization, the state’s tax
administrator. The clinics have annual revenue of as much as
$1.3 billion and produce sales taxes of as much as $105 million,
said Anita Gore, a spokeswoman.  “While California law permits collective cultivation of
marijuana in limited circumstances, it does not allow commercial
distribution through the store-front model we see across
California,” Andre Birotte, the U.S. Attorney in  Los Angeles ,
said at a press conference in Sacramento.  Last year, when California voters were asked to approve a
ballot measure to legalize marijuana for personal use, U.S.
Attorney General Eric Holder threatened to “vigorously”
prosecute possession and distribution if the referendum won.  The proposition failed even in Humboldt, Trinity and
Mendocino counties in northern California, identified in a 2010
Rand Corp. report as the center of the state’s pot production.  Sixteen states and the  District of Columbia  have legalized
its use, according to the National Organization for Reform of
Marijuana Laws.  ‘Legal Remedies’  Rhode Island U.S. Attorney Peter Neronha warned of possible
“civil and criminal legal remedies” against growers and
dispensary operators as well as “property owners, landlords and
financiers” in an April letter to Governor Lincoln Chafee, who
was considering issuing licenses to three medical-marijuana
dispensaries.  Chafee cited the warnings when he announced he wouldn’t
proceed with the licensing in a Sept. 29 statement.  Prosecutors yesterday said the crackdown involves civil
forfeiture lawsuits against properties allegedly used in drug
trafficking, letters of warning to clinic operators and
landlords, and criminal indictments that charge six people with
marijuana trafficking in  Southern California .  Lynnette Shaw, owner of Marin Alliance for Medical
Marijuana, a dispensary north of San Francisco she claims is the
oldest licensed in the U.S., said her landlord received a letter
from federal prosecutors on Sept. 29.  ‘Very Ominous’  “It was very ominous,” Shaw said in a telephone interview
Oct. 6. “It informed him there was medical-marijuana dispensing
on his site, and that he had 45 days to evict us, or possibly
face 40 years in jail, forfeiture of the property and any money
we had given him.”  In Los Angeles alone, there were 638 dispensaries last year
before a city restriction forced many to close, according to a
Sept. 21 Rand study. The state health department has issued
medical-marijuana identification cards to almost 57,000 people
since 2004, though the cards aren’t required in order to buy
pot.  “Large, commercial operations cloak their money-making
activities in the guise of helping sick people when in fact they
are helping themselves,” said Benjamin Wagner, the U.S.
attorney in  Sacramento . “Our interest is in enforcing federal
criminal law, not prosecuting seriously sick people and those
who are caring for them.”  Trade Show  Dispensaries regularly advertise in newspapers such as L.A.
Weekly. Hempcon, a trade show for the marijuana industry, is
scheduled for the San Jose Convention Center in mid-November,
with seminars on hydroponics and defending crops against pests.  Marijuana sales remain illegal under federal law and many
dispensaries in California violate even state rules that forbid
making money from distribution, according to Mark Kleiman, a
professor of public policy at the  University of California , Los
Angeles.  “Most are private, for-profit entities,” he said in a
telephone interview.  Cities including Los Angeles and Berkeley have taken steps
to license and regulate dispensaries, although those efforts may
be endangered by a state appeals court ruling Oct. 4.  City Regulation  The court decided that  Long Beach  couldn’t proceed with a
dispensary-permitting plan because cities “are preempted by
federal law from doing anything that would facilitate the
distribution of marijuana,” according to Michael Mais,
assistant city attorney.  The City Council will discuss the ruling next week, Mais
said, and may decide to appeal to the state  Supreme Court .
Permitting is on hold, he said, as is a similar registration
effort in Los Angeles, according to Frank Mateljan, a spokesman
for City Attorney Carmen Trutanich.  Kris Hermes, a spokesman for Oakland-based Americans for
Safe Access, which advocates policies to make it easier for
patients to get pot, said closing dispensaries may boost crime.  “We’re quite alarmed by this renewed federal effort to
crack down on facilities that in most cases, are either
licensed, or at the very least, complying with local and state
laws,” Hermes said in a telephone interview. “You’re talking
about hundreds of thousands of patients being without
medication, with really nowhere to turn except the illicit
market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  