-- 
California Gasoline Falls First Time in a Week on Lower Demand

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-10-07T21:25:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/california-gasoline-falls-first-time-in-a-week-on-lower-demand.html
California-blend gasoline weakened
for the first time in five days on speculation that refineries
conducting maintenance have covered supply shortages, lowering
demand in the market.  The premium for California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in
Los Angeles slipped 2 cents to 33 cents a gallon above gasoline
futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 4:16 p.m.
East Coast time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  San Francisco Carbob traded at a discount to Los Angeles
for the first time since Sept. 19, falling 3 cents to a 32-cent
premium.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  is conducting maintenance at its Richmond
refinery, and Valero Corp. was working on a compressor at its
Benicia plant. BP Plc is said to be planning work this month at
the Carson refinery, and  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  will reduce rates at the
Martinez plant in January for work.  California gasoline inventories rose 3.5 percent last week,
and diesel stocks in the state climbed 7.2 percent, according to
the state Energy Commission.  California-blend diesel in  Los Angeles  strengthened 1.25
cents to a premium of 14 cents above heating oil futures traded
on the Nymex.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon , was
unchanged at a premium of 47 cents over futures.  BP shut two reformers, the north and south coker heaters
and a hydrocracker compressor at its Cherry Point refinery in
 Washington  for work, according to a notice filed with air
regulators Oct. 3.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  will shut a sulfur plant at
its Ferndale refinery in Washington for work in the second
quarter of 2012, the company told regulators.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  is conducting work at the Puget Sound
refinery in Anacortes, Washington, that is expected to last
until Nov. 8, and Tesoro is working on a residual oil unit its
own Anacortes refinery that was scheduled to be completed at the
end of last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  