-- 
Calpers Urged to Reject Proposal to Limit Corporate Politicking

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-10-07T04:21:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/calpers-urged-to-reject-proposal-to-limit-corporate-politicking.html
Business groups appealed to the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System  not to use its
$218 billion power as the largest U.S. public pension to push
the boards of corporations in which it invests to vote on
political donations and disclose them annually.  A coalition led by the  California Chamber of Commerce , the
state’s biggest business group, said the proposed  policy  would
handcuff publicly traded companies in the political arena.  The U.S. Supreme Court, citing free-speech protections,
ruled last year that corporations and unions could spend their
own money on elections, not just contributions from employees
and political-action committees.  The pension’s proposal “is an unfair and discriminatory
mandate on corporate boards of directors, designed to chill the
ability of businesses to defend themselves from political
attacks by competitors, overzealous regulators, labor unions or
no-growth advocates,” the business organizations said yesterday
in a letter to the Calpers board.  The proposed rule would require boards to “ensure that
only contributions consistent with and aligned to the interests
of the company and its shareowners are approved.” It also would
require corporations to disclose political contributions every
year, including those to third-party groups that attempt to
influence elections.  ‘Robust’ Oversight  “The recommendations of Calpers staff are based on the
widely held belief that robust board oversight and public
disclosure of corporate activities can ensure alignment with
business strategies to further the interests of all
shareholders,” said  Brad Pacheco , a spokesman for the pension.  The proposed policy was reviewed by a subcommittee in
August and awaits approval by the full investment committee.  The California State Teachers’ Retirement System, the
second-largest U.S. pension, is considering a similar  policy .
The letter from the business organizations didn’t address the
Calstrs proposal.  In June, California Treasurer Bill Lockyer called on both
state pension systems, whose investments total $364.6 billion,
to push for more corporate disclosure of political spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Huntington Beach , California at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  