-- 
Cameroon’s Biya May Extend 29-Year Rule on Weakened Opposition

-- B y   P i u s   L u k o n g   a n d   E m i l y   B o w e r s
-- 
2011-10-07T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/cameroon-s-biya-may-extend-29-year-rule-on-weakened-opposition.html
Cameroon’s Paul Biya may extend his
29-year rule in an election on Oct. 9 as the splintered
opposition fails to take advantage of slumping oil production
and the government’s inability to meet poverty reduction goals.  Biya, 78, of the Cameroon People’s Democratic Movement,
will compete against 22 candidates for the support of 7.5
million registered voters. His main challenger is John Fru Ndi
who is representing the Social Democratic Front party in his
third bid for the presidency.  As  Africa ’s fourth-longest sitting leader, Biya has
consolidated power, benefiting from a divided opposition to seek
another seven-year term. He is pledging to boost investment in
agriculture in a country where half the population make a living
from farming and spur economic growth that the  World Bank  says
isn’t fast enough to cut poverty.  “Biya will win due to the strong advantage of his three-
decade incumbency,” said Sebastian Spio-Garbrah, managing
director with New York-based Da Mina Advisors. “The government
is unwilling and unable to undertake the major public sector
reforms that will unleash that type of high economic growth.”  While the  International Monetary Fund  estimates growth will
accelerate to 3.8 percent this year from 3.2 percent in 2010,
that’s still less than the 5.2 percent expansion in sub-Saharan
Africa. The economy is forecast by the IMF to grow 4.5 percent
in 2012, compared with 5.8 percent for the region.  Obiang, Dos Santos, Mugabe  Given its current growth trajectory, Cameroon won’t meet
goals set by the  United Nations  to halve poverty by 2015,
according to the World Bank.  Biya, who won 71 percent support in the 2004 election, is
the longest-serving African leader currently in power after
Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo of Equatorial Guinea, Angola’s
Jose Eduardo dos Santos and Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe.  Cameroon, which borders six other nations on Africa’s West
coast, generates about 35 percent of its foreign income from
oil, according to the Institute for Security Studies, based in
 South Africa ’s capital,  Pretoria . Agriculture makes up about a
third of the economy, employs 50 percent of the population and
is the source of half of export earnings.  BowLeven Plc (BLVN) , based in Edinburgh, is drilling for oil in
Cameroon.  Switzerland ’s Barry Callebaut AG owns Cameroon’s sole
cocoa-processing plant, Sic-Cocoa, with the government. Oil
output fell to 5.3 million barrels in the first quarter from 6
million barrels in the same period in 2010, the state-owned
National Hydrocarbons Corp. said on May 18.  Youth Employment  Both Biya and Fru Ndi have pledged to boost agriculture in
Cameroon, which follows  Ivory Coast ,  Ghana  and  Nigeria  as the
continent’s fourth-biggest cocoa producer. Cameroon produces
arabica and robusta varieties of coffee as well as  palm oil .  Biya pledged to created boost youth employment in
agriculture to 165,000 by 2014 by boosting farming, cutting
taxes on some exports and lowering  customs duties  on imports of
industry equipment, he said in a campaign speech Oct. 4. Fru Ndi
also promised to create jobs for young Cameroonians and expand a
public health-care program, according to an Oct. 3 report on
state-owned broadcaster Cameroonian Radio Television Corp.  The central African nation may face “significant
violence” in the port city of Douala and other urban areas
during and immediately after the vote amid discontent at the
prospect of Biya’s continued rule, Spio-Garbrah said.  A group calling itself the Army for the Liberation of the
Cameroonian People claimed responsibility for opening fire on
the Bonaberi bridge on Sept. 29 in Douala, according to London-
based Control Risks. Opposition groups have “denounced delays
in the publication of voter lists and distribution of voter
cards, as well as alleged attempts to prevent opposition leaders
from campaigning,” the risk-analysis group said on its website
Oct. 5.  In 2008, 100 people were killed when security forces opened
fire on people protesting the rising cost of living, according
to  Amnesty International .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pius Lukong in Yaounde at 
 plukong@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Bowers in Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  