-- 
Canada to Tie Public Servant Performance Pay to Spending Cuts

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-10-07T04:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/canada-to-tie-public-servant-performance-pay-to-spending-cuts.html
The Canadian government is linking
the performance pay of senior government workers to its effort
to cut spending as it seeks to eliminate its  budget deficit ,
Treasury Board President  Tony Clement  said.  To encourage over 8,600 executives to find savings, 40
percent of performance pay is being tied to the success of the
government’s one-year “strategic” review of operating
expenses, Clement said in a Bloomberg interview yesterday. The
rest will be based on individual performance, a percentage that
has usually been higher, according to Clement.  “We’re saying we’re all in the same boat,” Clement said
by phone from Ottawa. “There’s an automatic incentive on all of
the executives to help us achieve the targets of deficit
reduction that the government has laid out.”  The government’s plan to eliminate its deficit by the
fiscal year that begins in April 2014 depends on its ability to
find C$4 billion ($3.9 billion) annually in spending cuts. The
finance department projects  Canada  will run a deficit of C$29.6
billion during the year that began April 1.  The unions representing public workers have said the
spending review will put thousands of bureaucrats out of work
and prevent the delivery of basic services. Giving managers a
financial incentive to cut spending risks creating an
adversarial relationship with rank-and-file employees, the head
of the country’s biggest union of federal public servants said.  ‘Feeding Frenzy’  “When you tie things to dollars, there’s going to be a
feeding frenzy, and I think that’s a huge mistake,” said John
Gordon, national president of the Public Sector Alliance of
Canada.  Clement, whose department sets compensation standards
across the government, has been leading a review of about C$80
billion in program spending. He said the government may end up
cutting more than C$4 billion.  “If a program is not as important as it used to be, or if
there’s a way we can deliver the program in a more efficient and
effective manner, then we don’t stop because we hit a C$4-
billion number,” he said, adding that the review results will
be incorporated in next year’s fiscal plan.  A panel that advises Clement on executive retention and
compensation said in a July report that public-service
executives tend to earn less of their compensation through
performance pay, and more through pension and benefits, compared
with comparable positions in the private sector and broader
public sector.  ‘Not Unheard Of’  A portion of the salaries of senior government workers is
considered “at risk” and is paid depending on performance. The
panel  recommended  linking 25 percent of performance pay to
savings at the departmental level. “This is something that is
not unheard of in the private sector. We thought that this is
something that could easily be transposed to the public
sector,” Clement said.  A slow economic recovery in the U.S. and market turmoil
tied to  Europe ’s debt crisis hasn’t derailed the spending
review, Clement said. The opposition  New Democratic Party  has
called on the government to introduce further stimulus spending
to prevent Canada from slipping back into recession.  “What is creating turmoil are countries with sovereign
debt issues,” Clement said. “We want to continue to be a
country that pays its bills.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 