-- 
Canada Regulators to Hold December Hearings on TMX Takeover

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-10-07T16:42:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/canada-regulators-to-hold-public-hearings-on-maple-bid-for-tmx-in-december.html
Securities regulators in Ontario and
Quebec will hold hearings in December into the C$3.73 billion
($3.61 billion) proposed bid for  TMX Group Inc. (X)  by a group of 13
Canadian banks and pension funds.  Maple Group Acquisition Corp.,  whose members include
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , Caisse de Depot en Placement du Quebec
and  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , made an unsolicited bid for the
owner of Canada’s main stock exchange in May.  “We are moving forward with our offer, our discussions
with the TMX Group are ongoing and we remain confident we can
obtain all necessary regulatory approvals by early 2012,” Maple
Group Acquisition spokesman  Luc Bertrand  said today in a
statement.  TMX entered takeover talks with the consortium in July,
after shareholders rejected a friendly bid by the London Stock
Exchange Group Plc. The Maple offer was extended last month to
Oct. 31 as it awaits regulatory approval.  In a filing to the Ontario Securities Commission dated Oct.
3, Maple Group named  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  Chief Operating Officer
Sarabjit Marwah and Canada Pension Plan Investment Board Senior
Vice President Eric Wetlaufer to its proposed board of directors
for TMX.  Maple Group announced in June that the board would include
Bertrand, Marie Giguere of the Caisse de depot, AltaCorp Capital
Inc. Chairman George Gosbee, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
Vice Chairman Jim Prentice, Toronto-Dominion Deputy Chairman
Frank McKenna, Ontario Teacher’s Pension Plan Board executive
William Royan and  GMP Capital Inc. (GMP)  Deputy Chairman  Kevin Sullivan .  Separately, the Ontario Securities Commission said today it
was seeking public comment ahead of the hearings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  