-- 
Cantor Calls for Action on Skilled-Worker Exodus (Transcript)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   L e s l i e   H o f f e c k e r
-- 
2011-10-07T21:48:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/cantor-calls-for-action-on-skilled-worker-exodus-transcript-.html
U.S. House Majority Leader Eric
Cantor, a Virginia Republican, told a gathering of chief
executive officers and university leaders that the U.S. must
grant visas to skilled workers from overseas more quickly to
halt an “exodus” of “foreign nationals in this country who
come here” to attend universities “and then find it too
difficult to stay here.” The Oct. 5 event at Bloomberg News’
Washington bureau was sponsored by  Harvard University  and the
Business Roundtable.  Participants during the day’s series of discussions on
innovations and the economy included Drew Gilpin Faust,
president of Harvard University; former Michigan Governor John
Engler, president of the Business Roundtable; Albert R. Hunt,
executive editor of Bloomberg News; Bill Green, chairman of
consulting firm Accenture Plc; Tim Solso, CEO of diesel-truck
engine maker Cummins Inc.; Susan Hockfield, president of the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology ; Sally Mason, president of
the  University of Iowa ;  Ellen Kullman , CEO of DuPont Co.; James
Goodnight, CEO of SAS Institute Inc.; Freeman Hrabowski,
president of the University of  Maryland , Baltimore County; John
Hennessy, president of  Stanford University ; Linda Katehi,
chancellor of the University of California-Davis; John
Lechleiter, CEO of drugmaker Eli Lilly & Co.; and Teresa
Sullivan, president of the University of  Virginia .  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  DREW GILPIN FAUST: Why don’t we get started. I’m so
delighted to have Leader Cantor here with us. I know how busy he
is and it is a deep honor to have him join us and to be so eager
to hear about our conversation.  Let me just say a couple of words about Leader Cantor. It’s
a great privilege for me to introduce him because I am a fellow
Virginian by origin. As you know, he has represented the 7th
District of Virginia very ably since 2001 and was elected
majority leader in January of this year. He is a deep friend to
innovation; he came to Harvard last year and spoke about
universities as the anchors within the  United States  for growth
and prosperity and for the future, and I know he made similar
remarks at Stanford later in the spring. So he has put himself
on the record on behalf of the kinds of things that matter so
much to us, and we are really delighted to have him here to
engage in this dialogue and hear a little bit about some of the
conclusions we came to and -- and discussion we had this
morning.  I’ll say very briefly a few things that we focused on. I
think from the outset we saw that the partnership between
universities and industry is absolutely critical, that we need
to understand how to frame the conversation to emphasize what it
is that we share and that we see as so central to the future of
this country from the kinds of innovations that we, together,
can create.  The students that we train who become the leaders of
tomorrow and the innovators of tomorrow, the discoveries that we
advance and then discoveries that are also embraced and carried
further by industry and also by research and industry itself.  We focused on three areas this morning. The first was
immigration and the absolutely critical role that friendly
immigration plays for all of us. We agree that we must make the
case better and make the case by telling the stories of why this
is good for people in the United States and why it’s imperative
for United States competitiveness to bring the talent to the
United States that is necessary for its future.  The second set of issues we focused on were about research
and development. We acknowledge that it’s a very small part of
the federal budget overall, and yet one that is so critical for
our future as a nation because it has exponential impact for the
kinds of discoveries that come from it and for the -- the real
seed corn of the generation of scientists to come who want to
know that there will be the support for their science and for
all of our institutions, both as industrial partners, building
on that research and also universities generating that research.  The third subject of our focus was patent reform and the
recent bill which everyone applauded. And one of the questions
we asked ourselves was how did that coalition get created, how
were we successful in bringing that forward, and what lessons
can we learn from that experience about the ways we frame the
issues and the ways we -- we made partnerships to advance the
issues.  “Partnerships” was a constant theme of everything we did
-- our own partnership as universities and industry, but our
partnerships with our communities, our partnerships with others
across the political spectrum to make sure that these essential
issues are brought together by a coalition.  So with that, Governor, let me let you answer.  JOHN ENGLER : It’s -- first of all you did a great job,
Leader Cantor, it’s summing everything up and I don’t mean to
add very much to it, I think there was great appreciation for
the House, you know, process in getting this the -- the
intellectual property patent reform bill to the president’s desk
and getting it signed and certainly the hopes then that the
funding from the private sector follows through the office so
that we really start to whittle away on that backlog and that
that’s all part of a strategy to have an innovation economy
which I think overarching everything was the importance of
innovation to economic growth and the importance of economic
growth to dealing with this terrible jobs situation we’ve got.  So we’ve heard from the president’s science adviser today
and also the head of the patent office, a little bit of a
conversation with Ellen Kullman including about the president’s
jobs commission what they’re talking about but they thought the
idea that you put forward a jobs agenda, you’ve been a leader on
innovation and have been committed to that and so -- so just the
opportunity to talk to some leaders from the roundtable and from
the -- through most importantly, the universities. We welcome
you.  ERIC CANTOR : Well thank you and I -- I appreciate very much
the -- the honor of being here and, Madam President, thank you,
thanks for hosting us in Cambridge and we were in  Palo Alto  and
looked forward to visiting even more because I would say,
governor, President Faust is right, I do think that the future
of our country lies in your hands and we want to work with you
to -- to provide the engine for growth, and that engine is
innovation.  So I think that the -- the emphasis in this discussion is
right on, you know, we’ve obviously got a lot going on in the
country right now, a lot of troubles. But if we step back just a
second, it is the growth that comes from innovation that can be
the key to a lot of sort of the problems that we’re dealing
with.  And in my mind, it really has to do with whether we all
have the courage in this town to do the things necessary to be
that country that leads as an innovator. And we have in the
country enjoyed a lead, we know the competition is very fierce
at this point, but with the jewels of the higher education
institutions that you all represent and together partnering with
industry, we have an unbeatable -- an unbeatable formula if we
could just see our way clear to a path forward.  And, you know, I think that where we need to start is sort
of some self-examination here in  Washington  about what
Washington is doing, frankly to raise the price of risk because
if you think about it, innovation is something that is -- is
furthered by individuals willing to take a risk, willing to
engage in -- in growth and in activities that don’t guarantee
any kind of outcome, and we all have to sort of I think look
from a policy-making standpoint that we’re not making it more
difficult in Washington for those risk-takers. I happen to think
that we are.  And, you know, we’ve said when we were in Cambridge and in
Palo Alto and other places: From innovation comes jobs. And we
in this country have done it better than anybody, and that is
take ideas that come from your institutions and bring them to
market, and once you bring them to market, we go to
manufacturing and the jobs and the wealth begins to grow among
the middle class of this country and is shared. That should be
the goal. And I think that on any -- either side of the
political aisle and any part of the philosophical spectrum, I
think there is some general agreement on that. And the question
is: How are we going to get there?  And obviously in this town we are dealing with in the
country two extremely difficult crises: The first is the federal
debt crisis and deficit, which has been obviously growing for
decades; no -- no one has a monopoly on blame here. But we also
have a -- a real growth and innovation crisis, I believe, as
well, an innovation deficit that is -- is caused very much by I
think what some of the actions and inactions of this town are
about. And so I applaud the effort of trying to come together
and see where we have been successful in -- in patent reform and
others, and see if we can replicate it to go forward so we can
begin to bring about more of the kind of activity that we’d like
to see.  And you know, it -- it is clear to me that there is a real
divide on how to approach some of the issues on the table in
Washington. We -- we have clearly divide with both parties on
how to address entitlements, which as we know is the main driver
of the debt situation. And if we can’t get that straight, we’re
going to have a continued push and pull as to what priorities
are and how much money we can commit to basic science research
so that your institutions can be the incubators of this
innovation ideas.  But we do have a divide on that, and we also have an
urgency in a political realm that keeps too many people out of
work in this country and, with that, adds to the lack of
confidence and turns over into investors and the rest. So if you
look at sort of where we’d all like to go, I think we’d like to
fix both crises right now and so we can get on about the good
things, which is to promote more innovation. That’s not so
simple.  So instead of trying to continue to hammer away at a
proposal that is just not going to go anywhere -- such as, you
know, raising taxes on an economy right now -- we -- we just
honestly believe, and a majority in the  House of Representatives 
believes, that now is not a good time to raise taxes if you want
to see economic growth. And I know it’s very politically
expedient for the president, the majority leader in the Senate
and others to say, “Well, we can just tax the millionaires
because they’re convenient, there’s a pile of money and that’s
enough and we can address the problem and go forward.” It’s
just not that simple. We know that. And although politically
expedient, that’s not going to happen and we don’t believe
that’s the right policy.  So if we know that that’s a divide, then let’s set that
aside, OK? So where do we go from here? Well, there are some
things that we can agree on together. The -- the -- the
president talked about things that will help regain some
confidence in the small business arena. Well, small business has
a lot to do with innovation, a lot of the start-ups, especially
in the bio area and others, are small, small businesses. Well,
they’ve got difficulty accessing capital. Well, we can do some
things. Both sides, I think, are in agreement; there’s some
bipartisan bills moving through the Financial Services Committee
in the House that will allow for more access to capital.  We -- we can do some things like make sure that this
promise of a 3 percent withholding on contractors dealing with
the government is taken away, and I’ve actually been contacted
by some of the public universities in my district in Virginia
saying, “Hey, wait a minute, you know if we’re going to be tied
to that requirement, we’re going to be having to see an increase
in price for us because the vendors are going to do nothing but
pass that price along because that may represent some of the
margin in their contract.” So the president indicated in his
speech he wanted to do that; I think we can get that done.  Free trade agreements -- free trade agreements are good for
manufacturing in this country, because it allows our
manufacturers to access foreign markets. And we’re looking to
make sure that we deliver on that promise next week so we can
get the Colombia, Panama and South Korea free trade agreements
done finally. It’s been a long time in coming, and
unfortunately, for all reasons obvious, it has not happened and
we’re hopeful that next week it will happen.  But again, I think it is important for us to remember: We -
- we want to do the kinds of things that make us competitive. We
need a competitive strategy in this -- in this country. I think
patent reform is a piece of it. Republicans put that in our job
creators agenda last spring. It is because we said it is
important to attract capital to this country and investor
confidence and the -- the -- the certainty that can come from
reform in the -- in the patent office, I think, is absolutely
additive to that end.  We can also do some things when it comes to the FDA. You
know, much of the research that is going on in your institutions
has to do with approvals by the FDA, and there is much
uncertainty connected with that process. Again, what that does
is it raises the price of risk for people willing to commit the
capital, and we can’t continue to raise that price of risk
because at some point we become not competitive at all versus
our counterparts in the globe. And we’ve got to do that and we
have an opportunity with two bills, Perdue (ph) for the
Prescription Drug User Fee Act and the Medical Device User Fee
Act to actually effect some reforms in the FDA approval process.  You know, there are some other things that we can do from
the regulatory standpoint, whether it’s again from the aftermath
of Dodd-Frank, which we believe has gone too far in trying to
correct that so small businesses and individuals can access
capital. But we can also do some things when it comes to
manufacturing. Some of the EPA proposed regs are extremely
restrictive, and the anecdotes and evidence that we have found
across this country demonstrate that we’re not going to see
continued investment to expand manufacturing here if we don’t
knock some sense back into the regulatory arena.  So all -- all I can say is we -- we do need an economic
development competitive strategy mindset to return to
Washington, because I think it helps all of us.  I can look to my state, in Virginia, and we’ve actually
been relatively successful -- and a lot more so than most states
-- in attracting economic growth. And frankly, I think, from a
bipartisan standpoint, we’ve been able to put up the sign saying
we’re open for business. We’ve got a positive tax environment,
which we need desperately to address here at the federal level.
We don’t chase away the kind of investment capital that we want
to see come to Virginia by -- by dangling out there the promise
that we’re going to tax investors and capital gains, and we have
a more sensible regulatory environment. That’s the kind of
attitude that I think  we need here in Washington and dial back
on some of the things that we can’t agree on right away, put
some wins on the board like the free trade agreements, like the
patent reform and others that we can agree to, and regain some
confidence in this country.  So again, I thank you for having me, Governor, President,
and delighted to engage in discussion.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Great.  HRABOWSKI: Freeman Hrabowski from -- from Baltimore,
Maryland, at UMBC. We continue to attract the best talent to
this country, to American higher education, everybody knows, the
best graduate schools. What’s your sense about the general
thinking, not just in the public but among elected officials
about the need to make sure that we are able to retain some of
that talent, as those people have many opportunities back in
their home countries and other places?  CANTOR: Well, also part of the House majority job creators’
agenda is an attempt to address the antiquated visa laws in this
country and I think, as you point out, as did Dr. Faust, we have
an alarming rate of -- of exodus, if you will, of foreign
nationals in this country who come here to attend your
universities and then find it too difficult to stay here and,
given the rise in the standard of living elsewhere, can just as
easily go home.  I do still think that America is the beacon of freedom and
opportunity. We could very easily lose that if we don’t get back
on our game. So we intend to try and address that and to make it
easier for the folks who are in our graduate programs,
especially in the STEM areas, to stay, because they’re the
innovators, they’re the ones who can create jobs and who can
ultimately, I think, remain here so we can see innovation and
growth return. But right now it’s entirely too difficult, and
you ask me what the attitude is in the general public and
members of Congress -- I think that there is a general sense
that that we want to do.  Now it’s not unanimous. I mean, legal immigration is what
this country has always been about, and most of us in America
have found ourselves here because our families, most of us, our
families that voluntarily come to seek that opportunity. That’s
what we need to be about again, and need to be sure that the
legal structure is in place and is predictable and is certain.  Now, that does not address the illegal situation that we
have to address, but I think we can be -- we can be of -- of
benefit if we address the legal side when you’re talking about
the need for continued innovation.  JOHN LECHLEITER: Mr. Leader, good to see you again.  CANTOR: Thank you, John.  JOHN LECHLEITER:  Is -- is corporate -- fundamental
corporate  tax reform  caught up in -- in -- in the deficit -- is
it -- is it sort of now back further in line in terms of
something that can be considered absent, a solution from the
supercommittee? And -- and I tag on with that, this R&D tax
credit, we talked about that today, you know, is that -- is that
going to be held hostage as a constant to making that permanent,
which we think makes a lot of sense? Now we play this every-
year, every-two-year game right to the end of the session
almost, is it going to get renewed or not, another element of
uncertainty that raises the prices of risk. What -- what, you
know, all -- all of us I think can sit here and agree that
corporate -- the corporate tax system in this country needs
attention. It’s out of step, there’s -- it’s not -- it’s not
territorial, it’s global, it’s all kinds of things, highest
marginal rate. But where do you think that -- where do you think
that -- that’s another important, obviously driver of
innovation?  CANTOR: Right. Simplifying the code, bringing down rates,
adding some certainty so that we don’t continue to have sunsets
and cliffs as far as tax provisions is -- is I -- I think an
essential element to lowering the price of risk for innovation
and investment.  As far as the supercommittee is concerned, they’re, if you
look at it, there’s not a lot of time for resolution on issues
of import. The supercommittee’s first mission is to look to the
$1.2 trillion in savings needed to effect the increase in the
credit limit of the country by the end of the year. And
unfortunately, when you’re looking at the issue of comprehensive
tax reform, although we can agree on the basics, what we’ve seen
over the last or the earlier part of the year, there’s not
agreement on how you do that. And -- and especially there is an
insistence by the White House and the president himself saying
that we have to add a lot of money to the baseline, which means
raising taxes.  So, John, I would say there’s not a unanimous sense that we
should have revenue-neutral tax reform to simplify the code from
the base, fix the territorial issue, there’s -- there’s not
unanimity on how you do it, because unfortunately we’re still
reeling from a desire on the part of some to raise taxes right
now because of the dire situation of the fiscal outlook.  But again, we just don’t believe you do that right now. You
raise taxes when you’re trying to promote interest and
investment and so, I would say the supercommittee will likely
not be able to accomplish the kind of comprehensive reform that
some of us think is badly needed. I’m -- I’m hopeful they can
lay the groundwork, though, and point the direction with some
kind of directive.  JOHN HENNESSY: Leader Cantor, what -- I think all of us in
the higher education community are concerned that over this
difficult  budget crisis  and that the sort of default situation
will lead to significantly more cuts on the discretionary
spending piece especially, which includes basic research funding
that you alluded to as well as Pell grants and other things that
support higher education and are critical to our long-term
growth. How much confidence do you have that we will get to an
agreement that doesn’t head in that default direction?  CANTOR: I -- I think our Speaker has said that failure’s
not an option here, that we need an outcome and I share his view
on that. He appointed me to the so-called Biden talks last
spring and in those talks, we actually, to the vice-president’s
credit, were able to produce a blueprint to accomplish what the
joint select committee’s mission is. And it doesn’t get to the
comprehensive nature of entitlement reform that all of us would
like to see, or at least some of us. It doesn’t get to the
comprehensive tax reform, again, but it goes back to the fact
that there’s just a difference of agreement and you agree to
disagree on those things, but we provided a blueprint for
success. And I’m hopeful that what we’ll see is the joint select
committee in the end deliver on that.  TIM SOLSO: Tim Solso from Cummins, and I can’t applaud
enough that the free trade agreements that I -- I hope this goes
through and also general systems and preferences, but I’m very,
very concerned about the action against  China  around the -- the
currency and I -- I think there could be a lot of unintended
consequences for companies that do a lot of business in China,
so I’d be interested in hearing your comments about that.  CANTOR: Tim, I -- I share the concern about unintended
consequences of a -- a new trade war, of impact on consumers in
this country at a time in which people are having a rough time.  Obviously, there’s a great political upside to beating up
on a competitor. That doesn’t -- that doesn’t -- we shouldn’t go
without saying that our manufacturers in this country and our
small businesses, small manufacturers are having a lot of
trouble, and China’s coming in with what appears to be with an
uneven playing field and an upper hand, and we’ve got to address
that.  What I’ve said is I’d like to hear from the administration,
from the trade rep, as to what their position is. Typically on a
bill like that, you will have a staff that’s issued, the
administration, the president will say what their position is on
the bill. That has not been forthcoming, to my knowledge. And
since they’re on the frontlines of this relationship, I think
they understand the same thing.And I would like to hear from
them about the prospects of unintended consequences.  We -- we’ve got a situation in this country where our
manufacturing sector needs a jump-start. We have some success
stories out there that we can talk about, as you demonstrate,
and we can compete. My -- my sense is we can compete, especially
in the advance -- in the advanced manufacturing area because
that comes directly from the kind of work and research that’s
done at these institutions.  But we need a cheerleader, we need somebody who can stand
up for American industry who can say, you know what, we’ve got
plenty of work to do here at home to create an environment for
you to grow. So I -- I’m not -- I’m not so sure that with our
economy three times as big as China that the only thing that we
can go do is put on the floor a -- a bill like Senator Schumer’s
that does have with it a lot of unintended consequences, I
believe.  JAMES GOODNIGHT: I have one suggestion on the H1-B visa:
Leave the 85,000 cap where it is and just increase the master
cap from 20 to maybe 25 or 30, because we really do want to
capture more of those master’s and Ph.D. students. I think a lot
of the -- the regular H1-B visas are -- are being (inaudible)
programs are being brought in from  India , which I don’t care
much about, so if you could increase, just leave the 85 where it
is, increase the 20 up to 25 or 30 thousand for the master cap,
that should be fairly painless.  CANTOR: That -- that seems to be a fairly painless kind of
tweak, and we’ll take a look at that.  You know, there’s also some -- there’s -- there’s been some
indication that some of these other type of visas, like the EB-5
that is sort of an investor type of visa, but if someone’s
willing to commit a sizable sum of capital in this country can
also gain admittance if they’re going to go and create jobs.
These are the kinds of things I think have been demonstrated to
work, and the problem is, it’s almost as if Washington’s
speaking out of both sides of its mouth when we say welcome to
those who want to come here to learn, to invest, while on the
other hand we’re saying anybody who is investing we’re going to
increase the costs of that investment by raising your taxes. I
mean, that doesn’t make sense, it’s time for us to stop this yin
and the yang and start getting focused on the priority, which is
growth and jobs.  So I appreciate the suggestion.  ENGLER: (Inaudible) I was -- I was just going to follow up
a little bit on -- on Tim’s question on China because Chairman
Gant came into the  Business Roundtable , one of the things he
talked about was a hearing that was going to be held -- held in
the House side -- sort of inquire if that’s still sort of in the
works where they wanted to look at -- at the whole relationship
with China, sort of the indigenous innovation strategies of
China, the protection of intellectual property in China, a
number of -- it wasn’t just the currency question, but it was a
broader sort of review of the status of -- and I don’t know if
that was still sort of the thinking of the leadership in the
House.  CANTOR: Absolutely. We know that we have an intellectual
property challenge with China and we -- we know that again, our
manufacturers are feeling it that -- that somehow we’re not
playing with a -- with a fair -- a fair hand here and we have to
-- have to look at it. I mean there’s no question that our
constituents and the companies that look to us to do the right
thing are expecting us to do that, and from a trade
relationship, obviously the increasing import of China, we ought
to be doing that.  But I -- I would just underscore, Governor, that we’ve got
a lot to do here at home to straighten out the environment. And
again, there have been many, many pieces written lately today is
no exception whether people and business are saying, “I
couldn’t do what I did 15, 20 years ago because it’s so
difficult now to do it.” Now there’s no excuse for that. We --
we should get straight and stop the ideological chase and get
back to common sense here so we can start to see entrepreneurs
grow again.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (Inaudible). Go ahead.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (Inaudible) you go ahead.  LINDA KATEHI: First of all, I wanted to thank you for being
here today and I wanted to say I’m -- I’m one of those who came
to study in this country and decide to stay. But I would like to
go back to what John said about basic research and how critical
it is in the innovation ecosystem. One of the problems we have
away from the level of the funding is the uncertainty we have
from one year to another. In the last 10 years or so, I don’t
believe we had a budget on time, and even when we had a plan for
a budget, we were never sure that that would materialize. As you
are thinking forward about a more stable process, for the budget
in general but also for basic research, have you through about
doing a multi-year type of a thing instead of every year
revisiting it?  CANTOR: Yeah, I -- I am certainly one who has -- who has
had the experience coming from a state legislature that had a
biannual budget process. It does lend itself to certainty.
Again, that’s one of the things that’s seeming to be a common-
sense direction, but it is a big change in this town for some
reason. And what you’re seeing right now in all the rancor that
comes out of Washington is the result of, I think, people who’ve
come here in -- in a new way to effect real change.  So I -- I agree it is -- the goal is certainty for the
positive. I don’t agree with those who say, just get something
done, good or bad, because negative certainty is not good. But
positive growth oriented certainty that can create an
environment for risk-taking entrepreneurs -- innovation. of
course -- is something that we want to do.  And I think, John, to your point before, you know on the
tax credit is -- is the ancillary to that because if -- if the
private sector can’t rely upon the -- the certainty in the  tax
code  that the advantage will be there, then there’s a question.
And so if there’s a question then the price goes up for taking
that action.  Again making the case for the simplification and/or
certainty for these provisions, but it goes hand in hand with
your question about research budgets. And I -- I don’t think
there’s any question, we ought to put a priority on research in
this country. Washington does a lot of things that perhaps we
ought to reexamine and say it ought not be doing anymore, but
one thing that I think the country expects is leadership in
research, because it has a huge leverage effect in our quality
of life, in what we can do in productivity.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: President Hockfield.  SUSAN HOCKFIELD: (Inaudible) and on that point, you just
underscored it. I want to thank you for being here and thank you
for the message you’re carrying.And, you know, I can’t tell you
how much predictability is important when we’re doing very long-
cycle things like basic research, we’re doing very long-cycle
things like starting the kinds of companies and industries that
will attack the really hard problems, like the cost of health
care and whether we’re going to create a sustainable energy
system, these -- these require investments of decades, not
months -- and so predictability is important, and whatever
policies that we put in place to encourage patient capital. One
of the things that really scares me is seeing the capital
investments in start-up companies going, you know, toward short-
term thing, you know fast-cycle enterprises, rather than having
the right kind of incentives for people to invest in the decade
or two that it takes to bring a some of the more complicated
technologies to -- to the marketplace.  So, you know, I applaud what you’re saying and (inaudible)
the kind of -- from the outside looks like either bipartisanship
or chaos in  Capitol Hill  (inaudible) just end with something a
little bit more philosophical: that as we watch countries around
the world evolving into new kinds of government, it is really a
shame that the U.S. government does not stand as a model that
other countries want to follow. And so, as much as you can
encourage your colleagues to demonstrate the intelligence, the
wisdom, the efficiency of the American system, it will be all to
the good for the world.  ENGLER: Thank you very much, Leader Cantor, this is great
of you to take time. You’re awfully busy (inaudible) we
appreciate it.  CANTOR: Thank you, thank you very much.
 