-- 
Carter Holt Said to Start Marketing NZ$1.45 Billion Loan

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-10-07T08:39:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/carter-holt-said-to-start-marketing-nz-1-45-billion-loan-1-.html
 Carter Holt Harvey Ltd.,  New Zealand 
billionaire  Graeme Hart ’s wood products firm, will start
marketing a NZ$1.45 billion-equivalent ($1.1 billion) loan to
other banks next week after attracting 10 lenders in early
syndication, a person familiar with the matter said.  Bank meetings will be held in Sydney on Oct. 10 and  Hong
Kong  on Oct. 12, the person said, asking not to be identified as
details are private. Meetings may also be held in Taipei, the
person said.  Credit Suisse Group AG was hired to help organize the five-
year facility in August and invited other banks to join at the
top level. The loan is now fully underwritten by seven banks,
including  Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.,  Bank of
New Zealand ,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , HSBC Holdings Plc,
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. and Westpac Banking Corp., the
person said.  The seven are expected to each syndicate only a small part
of their commitment to the loan, the person said. Another three
banks -- Mizuho Financial Group Inc., HBOS Plc and Rabobank
International -- have also submitted so-called early bird
commitments, the person said, declining to elaborate.  The facility will be split into two parts, a bullet loan
and an amortizing loan, another person familiar with the matter
said on Aug. 25. The latter will pay a margin of 400 basis
points more than either the London interbank offered rate or the
New Zealand bank bill swap rate, while the bullet loan pays a
margin of 425 basis points, that person said.  The loan, which can be drawn in either U.S. or New Zealand
dollars, comprises a NZ$1.35 billion equivalent term portion and
a NZ$100 million equivalent revolving credit facility.  A bullet loan is where a payment of the principal, and
sometimes the interest as well, is due at the end of the term.
An amortizing loan is one where the principal is paid down over
the life of the loan, typically through equal payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  