-- 
Cash Better Than Cheap Emerging-Market Stocks: JPMorgan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-10-07T12:38:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/cash-beats-cheapest-emerging-market-stocks-since-08-at-jpmorgan.html
U.S. dollars are a more attractive
investment than developing-nation stocks trading at the lowest
valuations since 2008 as  Europe  struggles to solve its debt
crisis and  China’s economy  slows, said  Adrian Mowat , JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s chief Asia and emerging-market strategist.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has tumbled as much as 31
percent from this year’s high, sending its price-to-earnings
ratio to 9.4 on Oct. 5, the lowest level since December 2008,
three months after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed. The
gauge yields 3.2 percent in dividends, compared with 0.04
percent for the biggest money-market mutual funds, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg and Crane Data LLC.  Low valuations aren’t enough to spur a rally, Mowat said in
an interview today. Shares may keep falling because European
leaders haven’t agreed on a “serious” plan to recapitalize
banks and  China ’s inflation is still too high for the central
bank to ease monetary policy, he said. The MSCI index sank 54
percent in 2008 as the Dollar Index rose 6 percent.  “The lesson from the Lehman debacle was that U.S. cash was
really the only safe asset,” Mowat, who leads JPMorgan’s
emerging-market strategy team from  Hong Kong , said in a phone
interview. “Unfortunately Europe has to get a lot worse before
it’s going to get better.”  Fund Outflows  Emerging-market equity funds have posted 10 straight weeks
of outflows, with investors withdrawing $3.3 billion in the
seven days ended Oct. 5, according to data compiled by
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR Global. China
funds had $167 million of outflows during the week as the Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index sank to the lowest level since
April 2009.  “We’re still in a world where a significant amount of
international speculative risk flow comes out of the U.S.,”
said Mowat. “You tend to repatriate capital so it’s closer to
where your liabilities are when there’s a big risk event.”  Mowat’s outlook contrasts with a forecast for “big gains”
in developing-nation stocks during the next 12 months by
Geoffrey Dennis, the head of emerging-market strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in  New York . Dennis wrote in a report dated
yesterday that low valuations make a rally likely and that
domestic demand in emerging markets including China will shield
the economies from a global slowdown.  The MSCI emerging gauge has climbed 6.1 percent in the past
three days, including a 2.1 percent gain to 882.41 as of 1:09
p.m. in London. The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency
against those of six trading partners, slipped 0.2 percent
today, paring its gain since the end of August to 5.9 percent.  Short Rallies  For emerging-market shares, “I see an environment of these
rather short, sharp rallies that then fade because people come
back to realizing that this European situation is more
serious,” said Mowat. “Stocks can easily go through previous
valuation lows.”  European banks’ capital will be a subject for discussion at
the Oct. 17-18 summit of European Union leaders, German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in Berlin today. Lenders in the
region may need as much as 200 billion euros ($269 billion) of
additional capital, according to the International Monetary
Fund’s European head Antonio Borges. The Bloomberg Europe Banks
and Financial Services Index has dropped 30 percent this year as
investors became concerned that financial firms will have to
write down their holdings of Greek, Italian, Spanish and
Portuguese government bonds.  China Slowdown  “If I could just completely ignore Europe, we would have a
different recommendation,” Mowat said. “But unfortunately our
perspective at JPMorgan is that you need a very serious proposal
to recapitalize the European banking system, and that is not
really being discussed at a euro-wide basis.”  While Mowat began 2011 forecasting the MSCI index would
rise to 1,500, he cut his year-end estimate to 1,300 in
February. Mowat told Bloomberg Television on April 18 that the
gauge may fall about 20 percent. The index peaked two weeks
later and entered a  bear market  on Sept. 13.  Investors should hold “underweight” positions in Chinese
stocks, Mowat wrote in a report today. The biggest emerging
economy will slow as an inflation rate 50 percent higher than
the central bank’s stated target keeps it from easing policy,
while a worsening real-estate market, slower corporate spending
and rising nonperforming loans weigh on demand, Mowat said.  Signs that leaders in Europe and the U.S. are finding ways
to end the debt crisis and boost growth, along with easing
inflation in China, would create a more bullish outlook for
emerging-market stocks, Mowat said. Shares began surging from
their 2008 lows after the Group of 20 nations and China
announced stimulus plans, the strategist said.  “Look for the policy response,” Mowat said. “That’s when
the market changes direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  