-- 
McGuinty’s Liberal Party Holds on to Power in Ontario Provincial Election

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-10-07T11:51:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/mcguinty-s-liberal-party-holds-on-to-power-in-ontario-provincial-election.html
Ontario Premier Dalton McGuinty
returned to power with a weakened mandate as  Canada ’s most
populous province faces a dimming economic outlook while it
tries to reduce a  budget deficit  and create jobs.  McGuinty’s Liberals became the first party in more than 25
years to win a third consecutive term in Ontario, although the
party fell short of the 54 seats needed to form a majority in
the 107-seat legislature. The Liberals won 53 districts,
compared with 37 seats for the Progressive Conservatives and 17
seats for the  New Democratic Party , according to unofficial
results from  Elections Ontario  yesterday. Ontario was last led
by a minority government in 1985.  With a relatively strong minority, the Liberals should be
able to govern as if they have a majority, at least for the next
couple of years, said Lawrence Leduc, a political science
professor at the  University of Toronto . McGuinty would need at
least one opposition vote to pass legislation.  “It’s hard to imagine a PC-NDP coalition of some kind
throwing them out any time soon,” Leduc said by phone.  Progressive Conservative Leader Tim Hudak, 43, whose party
headed into the campaign leading in most opinion polls, said his
party would continue to push its agenda of creating
“sustainable” jobs, reining in spending and protecting family
budgets.  “It is very clear that the people of Ontario have put
Dalton McGuinty on a much shorter leash,” Hudak told supporters
after conceding defeat in his district near Niagara Falls.  No Coalition  In the closing days of the campaign, McGuinty ruled out
forming a coalition with NDP Leader Andrea Horwath, who hasn’t
said what concessions her party would require in exchange for
its support. Horwath, 48, said after the vote yesterday no
decision has been made on a possible coalition.  The Liberals likely won’t have to form a coalition or reach
a formal accord with the NDP to implement the government’s
agenda, Leduc said.  The McGuinty government faces economic challenges,
including a strong Canadian dollar and a faltering recovery in
the U.S, the biggest export destination for the province’s
manufacturers.  The government projected last month that the provincial
deficit will reach C$16 billion ($15.4 billion) in the year that
began April 1. The government’s projections are based on
forecasts for U.S. growth of 3.1 percent this year and 3.3
percent next year. Last month, the  International Monetary Fund 
cuts its forecast for U.S. growth to 1.5 percent in 2011 and 1.8
percent in 2012.  Debt to GDP  Ontario’s debt-to-gross-domestic product ratio will be 38.9
percent this fiscal year, third highest behind  Quebec  and Prince
 Edward Island  among the nation’s 10 provinces, according to
credit-rating company DBRS.  “This is a government that’s already running a pretty fair
deficit, so almost certainly they’re going to have to deal with
that,” Leduc said. “It’s not going to be a time for bold new
policy initiatives.”  Ontario’s bonds have underperformed other provinces’ debt
this year, as the sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe  drove
investors toward safe havens. The extra yield demanded by
investors to hold Ontario government debt relative to federal
bonds has widened by 20 basis points to 83 points since the
start of the year through Oct. 5, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index. The average spread of Canadian provincial
and municipal bonds has widened by 18 basis points over the same
period to 71.  Popular Vote  The Liberals took 38 percent of the vote, compared with 35
percent for the Progressive Conservatives and 23 percent for the
NDP.  McGuinty, 56, likely benefitted from the same unease about
the impact of political change on the economy that benefited
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  in the May 2 federal election,
said Frank Graves, president of Ekos Research Associates.  “The conventional thinking is that when the economy gets
wobbly, the incumbent suffers, that doesn’t seem to have
happened here,” Graves said by phone from Ottawa.  The Liberals held 70 seats at dissolution. The Tories had
25 and the  New Democrats , 10. Two seats were vacant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 