-- 
Chile’s September Prices Grow at Fastest Pace Since March

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-10-07T13:38:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/chile-september-consumer-prices-rise-0-5-from-month-earlier.html
Chilean consumer prices increased in
September at the fastest monthly pace since March on gains in
transportation, food and beverages, indicating the central bank
won’t follow  Israel ’s lead by cutting key  interest rates .  Prices rose 0.5 percent from the previous month, matching
the median estimate of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Annual inflation accelerated to 3.3 percent from 3.2 percent in
August, while monthly  core inflation , which excludes fuel and
produce prices, was 0.3 percent, the National Statistics
Institute said in a report today.  Consumer prices often climb in September as food and
transportation costs increase during Independence Day
celebrations, Cristobal Doberti, an economist at Bice
Inversiones, said today. Rising salaries and producer prices may
cause consumer prices to grow faster in future, he said.  “The central bank will keep rates on hold given the
current scenario,” Doberti said by phone from Santiago. “A cut
would be justified when we start seeing a bigger deceleration in
internal demand. Companies continue to face price pressures, and
whether they will pass those on to consumers will depend on
internal demand.”  Producer prices rose 0.4 percent in September from the
previous month, the institute said today. Salaries climbed 0.4
percent in August from July, it said yesterday.  Commodity Prices  The global economic slowdown will cause commodity prices to
fall, reducing inflationary pressures in  Chile  and eventually
giving policy makers space to reduce their rates, Leonardo Suarez, chief economist at Larrain Vial SA, said in an Oct. 3
report. Inflation may slow to 2.1 percent next year from 3
percent in 2011, he wrote.  “If the global economic scenario intensifies, we don’t
rule out reductions in the monetary policy rate before December
2011,” said Suarez, who estimated monthly inflation of 0.4
percent to 0.5 percent for September.  Traders and investors surveyed by the central bank on Sept.
27 forecast policy makers would keep rates unchanged at 5.25
percent in October and cut to 5 percent by January.  Three-month interest rate swaps, which reflect traders’
views of rate decisions, rose 7 basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, to 5.12 percent today from yesterday.  Inflation will be 3.3 percent in December and 2.9 percent
by the end of next year, the government’s budget office said in
a presentation yesterday. The central bank, which estimates
consumer prices will rise 3.3 percent in December, targets 3
percent inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 