-- 
Chilean Peso Caps First Weekly Gain in Five on U.S. Payroll Data

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-10-07T18:23:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/chilean-peso-climbs-on-u-s-payroll-data-heads-for-weekly-gain.html
Chile ’s peso jumped after a report
showed U.S. payrolls rose more than forecast last month, pushing
the currency to the first weekly gain in five weeks.  The peso appreciated 0.3 percent to 518.5 per dollar at the
close today to register a 0.2 percent weekly advance. Interest-
rate swaps and bond yields rose, recovering some of the ground
lost last week.  U.S. employers added 103,000 workers last month, more than
the 60,000 rise expected by economists in a Bloomberg survey, a
sign they remain confident the U.S. will avoid a recession. The
Chilean currency reverted part of its earlier gains after  Fitch
Ratings  cut its rating on  Spain ’s debt by two notches and
lowered  Italy ’s by one.  “Global markets had been rallying for a couple of days and
then payrolls came out better than expected and that has
increased appetite for risk,” said Cristian Donoso, a trader at
Banchile Inversiones in Santiago. “It has been very volatile.
Everyone’s looking at New York stocks.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fluctuated between gains
and losses before sliding to a 1 percent decline as of 1:05 p.m.
New York time.  The peso fell earlier this week as the price of copper, the
country’s principal export, reached a 14-month low on concern
that  Europe ’s deepening debt crisis will stifle raw material
demand. The currency was trading at 518.88 per  U.S. dollar 
before the payroll data came out at 8:30 a.m. New York time. It
rose as much as 1.7 percent to 511.07 per dollar.  Long Positions  Foreign investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
increased long positions in the U.S. dollar against the peso to
$6.4 billion on Oct. 5, the most since July 2010.  Interest-rate swap and bond yields rose for a third day.
The two-year swap rate in pesos climbed 8 basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 4.10 percent as of 2:15 p.m. New York time.
It earlier rose 18 basis points to 4.2 percent.  The rate has increased 24 basis points in three days after
falling 75 basis points over nine sessions to 3.86 percent on
Oct. 4 from 4.61 percent on Sept. 21.  Two-year inflation-linked swaps also rose 8 basis points.  “The fall was very abrupt so this is a natural
correction,” said Christian Gomez, a trader at Banco Santander
Chile in Santiago. “The whole market reacted to improved data
from the U.S.”  Interest-rate swap rates reflect traders views of the
likely average of future central bank benchmark rates. Investors
had pushed swaps yields lower as they priced in earlier and
deeper rate cuts on nervousness about the European debt crisis
and slowing growth.  Implied Inflation  Breakeven inflation, the rate of price increases discounted
by the swaps market, fell in every maturity from three months to
10 years. Six-month breakeven inflation declined 17 basis points
to a three-week low of 1.92 percent.  Prices rose at the fastest pace since March last month, the
National Statistics Institute said today. Annual inflation
accelerated to 3.3 percent from 3.2 percent in August, matching
the median forecast of 12 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  