-- 
China Says UN Carbon Credits Should End If Kyoto Targets Lapse

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-10-07T00:08:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/china-says-un-carbon-credits-should-end-if-kyoto-targets-lapse.html
China  and the European Union are at
odds over the future of the United Nations carbon market and the
Kyoto Protocol, a rift that threatens agreement at next month’s
ministerial climate-change conference in South Africa.  The EU has “moved the goal posts” in negotiations to
extend Kyoto, an emissions-control agreement that lapses at the
end of 2012,  Su Wei , the lead Chinese negotiator said yesterday
in an interview at UN-sponsored talks in Panama City. The EU is
seeking to broaden the accord to include commitments from
developing nations such as China,  India  and  Brazil .  A failure to agree on new Kyoto limits would dry up the
future of the UN’s eight-year-old carbon market, worth $7.8
billion at current prices, Su said, publicly linking the fate of
an agreement and trading for the first time. The breach
threatens progress on a fund to help developing nations adapt to
the impacts of  climate change  and efforts sought by the U.S. and
richer nations to bolster the system to monitor country
emissions pledges.  “The impasse on Kyoto will be the determining factor
whether we can get agreement,” Jake Schmidt, international
climate policy director for the New York-based Natural Resources
Defense Council, said in an interview. “If we can’t find a
resolution on Kyoto, the developing countries have basically
said no progress on the other issues.”  Fallen Value  Carbon-dioxide emissions credits generated through the UN’s
Clean Development Mechanism are directly tied to the fate of the
Kyoto Protocol, Su said. The value of offsets under the program
has fallen 41 percent in the past year as Europe’s economic
slump left factories idle and reduced demand for the
certificates that let industry pollute.  “If you’re talking about the legally binding treaty, the
 Kyoto Protocol , you certainly need to have targets to have the
CDM projects,” Su said.  “If there are no targets, how can that be implemented?”
Su said.  India, Brazil and  Venezuela  are backing China’s position,
Schmidt said, though delegates from those nations haven’t
commented about the matter to reporters in Panama this week.  Delegates from more than 190 nations are working to replace
or extend the 1997 Kyoto accord, which set limits on emissions
of gases blamed for changing the Earth’s climate. Su said the
talks this week have bogged down over “new conditions” imposed
by the European Union.  Carbon Reductions  “The European Union has made clear that as a precondition
for taking on binding commitments under the Kyoto Protocol after
2012, negotiations must start on a more comprehensive regime”
that includes enforceable carbon-reduction agreements from
“major  developing countries  such as China, India, and Brazil,”
 Alden Meyer , an observer attending the UN talks for the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Union of Concerned Scientists,
said in an interview.  Artur Runge-Metzger, the European Commission’s climate
envoy, rejected the idea that the clean-development market can’t
move forward without a extension of the Kyoto accord.  “The CDM institutions are self-funding,” Runge-Metzger
said in an interview. “There’s no kind of clause that says it
comes to the end at the end of 2012.”  China and other developing countries may be using the
market issue for leverage in talks with richer nations,
according to Schmidt.  Misreading the Impact  “They have misread the impact of that because the
Europeans will reconstitute a carbon market system within
 Europe ,” Schmidt said in an interview.  The European Union and  New Zealand  have adopted carbon-
market rules. “Are they going to stop those because they don’t
have the Kyoto Protocol continuation? Not likely,” Schmidt
said.  Industrial nations favor the clean-development market
because it gives them a cheap way of cutting emissions. China’s
comments suggest Su will use the program to push for deeper
pollution cuts from those nations.  Japan ,  Canada  and  Russia 
already have signaled they wouldn’t sign up for an extension of
Kyoto’s restrictions. The U.S. never ratified the pact.  UN offset credits can be bought by companies such as
utilities seeking to comply with limits on greenhouse-gas
emissions under cap-and-trade systems. China is the world’s
biggest emitter of carbon dioxide and has generated 57 percent
of the CDM credits since the program started in 2003. India is
No. 2 with 15.8 percent.  About 13 billion euros ($17.5 billion) of emissions-
reductions certificates were issued last year, accounting for 14
percent of the 93 billion-euro carbon market, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates on Jan. 6.  This round of talks wraps up today and is the last formal
session before the event in Durban,  South Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in Panama City at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  