-- 
Chinese Stocks in the U.S.: Shanda, Sina, Suntech, Trina Fall

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-10-07T22:01:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/chinese-stocks-in-the-u-s-shanda-sina-suntech-trina-fall.html
The Bank of New York Mellon  China  ADR
Index, which tracks American depositary receipts, fell 3 percent
to 350.27. The New York Stock Exchange Arca China Index sank 3
percent to 210.29. Markets in China were closed this week for a
holiday.  The following companies were among the most active Chinese
shares in New York trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses and
prices are as of the close of trading.  China is likely to roll out measures soon that would step
up management of social media, which may include requiring users
of microblogs to register using their real names, the Hong Kong-
based  South China Morning Post   reported , citing Song Jianwu,
dean of the School of Journalism and Communication at China
University of Political Science and Law.  Sina Corp. (SINA US), the owner of the Twitter-like Weibo
service, fell 6.3 percent, the most in six trading sessions, to
$73.81.  Shanda Interactive Entertainment Ltd. (SNDA)  , the owner
of China’s third-biggest provider of online games, slid 4
percent to $32.48.  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  , the operator of China’s fifth-most
visited website, retreated 2.8 percent to $54.51.  Germany  may reduce solar feed-in-tariffs, which require
utilities to pay generators set rates over fixed periods of
time, by more than the 15 percent cut that has been discussed,
Daniel Ries, an equity analyst at Collins Stewart LLC wrote in a
research note, citing comments  Chancellor Angela Merkel  made
suggesting reductions in solar subsidies.  Suntech Power Holdings (STP US), the world’s largest maker
of solar panels, fell 8.2 percent, the most in four days, to
$2.34.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  , China’s largest solar panel
maker by market capitalization, plunged 25 percent to $6.02, the
most in three years.  JinkoSolar Holding Co. (JKS US), a Chinese manufacturer of
solar cells and modules, lost 7.2 percent to $6.30. The company
completed the first phase of a safety upgrade at a plant in
Haining, China, where fluoride in a temporary waste-storage unit
leaked into a river in August after heavy rains, it said in a
statement through PR Newswire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  