-- 
Christie ‘Never Got Off of That No’ on Joining Presidential Race

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-10-07T04:14:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/christie-never-got-off-of-that-no-on-2012-bid.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ,
speaking publicly for the first time since closing the door on a
run for president in 2012, said that while he may have wavered,
he never reversed course from earlier denials.  “I never changed my mind,” Christie, a 49-year-old
Republican, said yesterday on his monthly “Ask the Governor”
radio show from  WKXW-FM  studios in Ewing. “I listened to a lot
of people. I thought about it, but I never got off of that no.”  Christie, who rose to national prominence for cutting
budgets and feuding with public-employee unions, said Oct. 4
that he would serve the remainder of his first term as governor
of the Garden State. “New Jersey, whether you like it or not,
you’re stuck with me,” he said.  In his radio appearance, Christie said he doesn’t plan to
accept a cabinet-level post, including attorney general, if a
Republican ousts President Barack Obama in 2012. Christie served
as  New Jersey ’s U.S. Attorney for seven years before beating
Democrat  Jon Corzine  in the 2009 race for governor.  Christie began saying last year that he wouldn’t run for
president in the current election cycle. This week he put an end
to renewed speculation and said he won’t make a bid for the
Republican presidential nomination. He left open the possibility
of a White House run in 2016 or later.  His recent fund-raising swing through California, Missouri
and  Louisiana  helped bring in about $500,000 for Republican
candidates in New Jersey, the governor said.  Resurgent Interest  Leading Republican financial backers and business
executives stepped up calls for Christie to enter the race
following Texas Governor  Rick Perry ’s stumbling performance in a
nationally televised debate on Sept. 22, according to a party
member close to Christie who declined to be identified because
he isn’t authorized to speak for him publicly.  The governor’s standing in national Republican circles grew
after he cut $10 billion in projected state spending on schools,
public pensions and aid to cities in his first budget.  Christie said he wants to finish the job he started when he
took office in January 2010. He seeks to overhaul schools and
tighten ethics rules, such as imposing more stringent financial
disclosure on lawmakers and governors, and to immediately end
dual-office holding.  His education proposals would increase the number of
 charter schools  in New Jersey and make it easier for
administrators to fire teachers deemed to be inadequate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  