-- 
Chrysler Says UAW Talks Intensify as Union Grows ‘Anxious’

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-10-07T19:49:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/chrysler-says-in-intense-talks-over-next-3-to-4-days-with-uaw.html
Chrysler Group LLC, seeking a new
labor agreement with the  United Auto Workers , is in “some
pretty intense” talks with the union that should go over the
next three to four days, the automaker’s top executive said.  Chrysler, based in  Auburn Hills ,  Michigan , wants to get a
new contract with the union without going to arbitration, Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  told reporters today in
Montreal.  “The intent here is to try and get to a deal without going
to arbitration,” Marchionne said. “If we cannot resolve the
issues we will go there.”  Chrysler, majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , is still negotiating
with the union after  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
reached labor deals. The UAW gave up its right to strike as part
of Chrysler’s 2009 U.S-backed bankruptcy, with unresolved
differences subject to binding arbitration.  Progress is being made at the bargaining table with “key
issues” still being discussed, General Holiefield, the UAW vice
president who heads the union’s Chrysler department, said in a
Facebook posting today.  “Your negotiators are as anxious as I am to attain a
tentative agreement and bring home a contract that delivers the
respect and dignity that our membership deserves,” Holiefield
said.  The UAW and Ford reached a four-year tentative agreement
Oct. 4 that followed an earlier accord at GM. The GM deal was
approved by UAW members while union-represented workers at Ford
have yet to vote.  UAW President  UAW President  Bob King , while discussing the Ford
agreement, disagreed with Marchionne’s contention that Chrysler
can’t follow the pattern of wages and benefits set by GM and
Ford.  “I respectfully believe that you can” follow the pattern
at Chrysler, King told reporters Oct. 4. “We did not do
everything lockstep at GM and Ford because there are some
differences.”  “We’ll look at the Chrysler situation,” he said.
“They’ve got some differences from Ford and from General Motors
in terms of demographics of the membership. And we’ll figure out
creative solutions together.”  Chrysler’s labor agreement was extended twice after the two
sides failed to reach a deal when the 2007 contract was set to
expire on Sept. 14. Chrysler has set an Oct. 19 deadline.  ‘Overly Generous’  Parts of the Ford and GM accords “may be overly generous”
for Chrysler “at least at the beginning” of the contract,
Marchionne said today.  Those agreements include raises for so-called second-tier
workers, who receive about half what more senior production
employees make. Such raises would have a bigger effect at
Chrysler, which has said it has at least 12 percent of its
workers receiving the lower wage rate. The UAW has estimated
that about 4 percent of GM’s union workforce is paid at the
second-tier rate while Ford has fewer than 100 second-tier
workers.  “Whatever cost structure we come up with as a result of
this needs to” be competitive with North American rivals,
including foreign companies, Marchionne said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  