-- 
Cinemark Movie Chain to Boycott Universal’s ‘Tower Heist’ Over VOD Plan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-10-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/cinemark-movie-chain-to-boycott-universal-s-tower-heist-over-vod-plan.html
Cinemark Holdings Inc. (CNK) , the third-
largest U.S. movie chain, said it won’t screen Universal
Pictures’ “Tower Heist” if the studio proceeds with a plan to
offer the film to cable-TV viewers while it is still in
theaters.  Cinemark has asked Universal, controlled by cable system
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , to reconsider the video-on-demand test planned
three weeks after the film’s Nov. 4 debut in theaters, the
Plano, Texas-based cinema operator said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. The cable-TV offering is scheduled for Atlanta and
Portland, Oregon.  Movies need longer exclusive runs in theaters to build
awareness among consumers, said Cinemark, which operates 3,825
movie screens in 293 locations. Studios are testing earlier VOD
release dates to replace declining DVD sales. The window between
the theatrical opening and home-video release typically is about
four months, the company said.  “Over the past year Cinemark has continually voiced its
concern to Universal and other studios regarding any early-to-
the-home premium video-on-demand,” Cinemark said in the
statement. “Movies are designed to be exhibited in today’s
state of the art digital theaters.”  Comcast plans to offer the movie, starring Eddie Murphy and
Ben Stiller, for home viewing for $59.99 starting three weeks
after its Nov. 4 debut, the studio said Oct. 5.  Universal, Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros.,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Fox and  Sony Corp. (6758)  previously offered films two months after the
theatrical release through  DirecTV. (DTV)   Comcast, based in Philadelphia, rose 46 cents, or 2.1
percent, to $22.09 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
Shares of the largest U.S. cable TV service have declined less
than a percent this year before today.  Cinemark fell 8 cents, or less than a percent, to $18.79
yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange.  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC)  is the largest U.S. cinema
operator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  