-- 
Citigroup Sued by Cardholders Over May Security Breach

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-10-07T17:34:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/citigroup-sued-in-n-y-by-cardholders-over-security-breaches.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
U.S. bank, was sued by cardholders over a May computer security
breach that affected more than 360,000 accounts.  Kristina and Steven Orman of Northport, New York, sued
Citigroup in federal court in  Manhattan  today, seeking to
represent victims of the hacking in a class-action, or group,
lawsuit. Money was stolen from their bank account and their
credit cards were illegally used by third parties following the
breach, they said.  “Defendants have taken no steps that adequately or
effectively protect cardholders against illegal use of the
cardholders’ sensitive and extensive financial records since the
breach,” the Ormans alleged in the complaint. They seek
unspecified damages.  Citigroup said in June that the breach, affecting
1.5 percent of its card customers in  North America , was
discovered at Citi Account Online during routine monitoring.
Customers’ names, account numbers and e-mail addresses were
viewed, Citigroup said.  Sean Kevelighan , a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup,
said bank officials haven’t seen the lawsuit and couldn’t
comment on it.  ‘Brute Force’  A weakness in Citigroup’s online security allowed hackers
to use a “brute force data intrusion” to access thousands of
cardholders’ accounts, the Ormans said. While Citigroup said the
breach occurred and was “immediately rectified” by May 24, it
didn’t notify customers until June 3, the Ormans said.  Citigroup also failed to disclose how it concluded that
“more sensitive information like social security numbers, birth
dates, card expiry dates and CVV card security codes were not
compromised,” according to the complaint.  “Defendants were willing to accept security risks to save
money for the bank while exposing the customer to huge financial
risk,” the Ormans said.  The case is Orman v. Citigroup Inc., 11-cv-7086, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 