-- 
Clearwire Plunges as Sprint Says Accord May End After 2012

-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-10-07T20:35:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/clearwire-tumbles-as-partner-sprint-explains-network-plans.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , the money-losing
wireless broadband provider, plunged 32 percent after  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  signaled it may end the companies’ partnership
after the current accord ends in 2012.  Clearwire, which is majority owned by Sprint, fell 66 cents
to $1.39 in New York trading today. It was the largest drop
since November 2008.  Sprint, which uses Clearwire’s WiMax network to offer high-
speed services, said at an investor conference today that it
will stop selling WiMax devices after 2012 as it focuses on a
technology called long-term evolution, or LTE. Sprint, which
accounts for most of Clearwire’s wholesale revenue, is building
out its own LTE network and also has a partnership with LTE
carrier LightSquared Inc.  While Clearwire also plans to shift toward LTE, it has yet
to gain funding for the network upgrade. Sprint Chief Executive
Officer  Dan Hesse  said the carrier may extend its relationship
with Clearwire beyond the end of next year, without committing
to provide Clearwire money to shift to LTE.  “We signed an agreement which takes us through 2012
already,” Hesse said today in interview at an investor meeting
in New York. “We are hopeful we can extend and expand that.”  Clearwire has said that it needs about $600 million for LTE
plus $350 million in working capital. The Kirkland, Washington-
based company’s stock had lost 60 percent this year before today
partly on concern the company will struggle to gain the funding
it needs to make the shift.  Sprint ‘Distancing Itself’  Clearwire Chief Executive Officer Erik Prusch said in an
interview he’s confident the company can raise the capital
needed. He said the company will be able to monetize its extra
spectrum, and  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint is among the
companies that needs it.  “We service the majority of their growth, a majority of
their customers,” he said. “Without us, they don’t really have
a 4G strategy.”  It sounds like Sprint “is distancing itself from its
reliance on Clearwire,”  Chris Larsen , an analyst at Piper
Jaffray & Co., said in a research note today.  Hesse said that service for Sprint’s wireless customers
would continue if Clearwire files for bankruptcy.  “If there were any bankruptcy, we would expect it to be
constructive and we would be part of the discussion,” Hesse
said. “We feel confident that we would be able to support our
4G wireless customers.”  Prusch said he is “not going to speculate” on the
possibility of bankruptcy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  