-- 
Clinton Touts Power of Foreign Investment to Generate U.S. Jobs

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-10-07T18:39:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/clinton-touts-power-of-foreign-investment-to-generate-u-s-jobs.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
pledged the full backing of her agency to foreign businesses
seeking to expand and create jobs in the U.S.  Clinton today hosted a meeting of President Barack Obama’s
Council on Jobs and Competitiveness in  Washington . The event
reflected Clinton’s push to shift the focus of the State
Department to boosting jobs and investment at home, and opening
overseas markets for U.S. businesses.  The jobs meeting took place after the release of better-
than-expected September employment figures that buoyed U.S. and
European stock markets. Obama is urging Congress to pass his
jobs bill, which the administration says would create 1 million
jobs. The Senate may vote next week.  “We have a significant but untapped potential for  job
creation  and economic growth that comes with attracting foreign
investment to the  United States  to put Americans to work,”
Clinton told executives from  Siemens AG (SI) ,  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) , and
other firms.  Payrolls climbed by 103,000 workers after a revised 57,000
increase the prior month. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey called for a rise of 60,000. The gain reflected the
return to work of 45,000 telecommunications employees. The
jobless rate held at 9.1 percent.  R&D Spending  Five percent of Americans work for U.S. affiliates of
foreign companies, according to  Jeffrey Immelt , the chairman of
General Electric and Obama’s Jobs Council. These companies
account for 14 percent of all spending on research and
development, almost 21 percent of all the exports and pay their
employees an average salary of over $77,000, Immelt said at
today’s event.  Executives gathered for the hour-long meeting said changes
would help raise the level of their investment in the U.S. They
urged Clinton and the administration to ease visa requirements,
particularly for trainers to come to the U.S. to work with
American employees.  They stressed the need to improve U.S. education and worker
training, amend the  tax code  and remove other barriers. Peter Solmssen, who heads the Americas division of Siemens, said the
crucial message the executives delivered is the need to rebuild
U.S. infrastructure.  “The country ought to do what it needs to do anyway, which
is invest in infrastructure,” Solmssen said in an interview.
“That was pretty much the unanimous view in the room.”  Clinton said the department is seeking to speed up the
processing of business visas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  