-- 
Collapsing Deutsche Boerse Takeover of NYSE Can Still Return 45%: Real M&A

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-10-07T05:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/collapsing-deutsche-boerse-takeover-of-nyse-can-still-return-45-real-m-a.html
The  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  acquisition of
NYSE Euronext is valuing the owners of the  New York  Stock
Exchange and Frankfurt bourse at $16.6 billion, about the same as
the German exchange when the deal was announced in February --
diminished by the European debt crisis and an economy teetering
on the brink of recession. For all of the disappointment,
traders buying NYSE Euronext shares today can make 45 percent
after the deal is approved by regulators.  Since the two venues agreed to merge, the value of the
acquisition has fallen more than any all-stock takeover in the
U.S. this year as investors fled European equities, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. NYSE Euronext owners lost billions
of dollars by tying themselves to  Deutsche Boerse ’s stock, which
slid almost 40 percent from $16.2 billion eight months ago.  While the decline now implies the Frankfurt-based exchange
has virtually nothing to gain from buying the symbol of American
capitalism, the combined entity may still be worth $24 billion,
based on next year’s earnings and the prices that comparable
companies command, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The deal decline is not a reflection of what value is
being created,”  Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based
merger arbitrage strategist for Tullett Prebon Plc, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s hard for me to believe that the
market really believes that NYSE isn’t adding any value. Does
that present a buying opportunity? Yes.”  Medieval Fairs  Deutsche Boerse’s Naomi Kim declined to comment on the
decrease in the value of the takeover.  Rich Adamonis , a spokesman for New York-based NYSE Euronext,
said in a telephone interview that “our proposed merger with
the Deutsche Boerse will produce efficiency gains and accelerate
our standalone strategy.”  The agreement to buy NYSE Euronext was part of more than
$30 billion in announced takeovers as the world’s biggest
exchanges turned to dealmaking to trim costs and produce more
revenue from trading in equities, options and futures.  The combination will create the world’s largest futures
exchange. It will also control 41 percent of U.S. options,
helping to offset declines in equities trading.  The takeover, approved by shareholders and boards of
directors at both companies, won out over a hostile offer from
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  of New York and  IntercontinentalExchange
Inc. (ICE)  in Atlanta after regulators signaled they would block it.  NYSE Euronext’s owners will get 0.47 shares in the merged
entity for each share they own. Shareholders of Deutsche Boerse,
which traces its roots back to the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and
the  medieval fairs  of the 11th century, will swap their shares
and own 60 percent after the transaction is completed.  Acquisition Detail  At the time of the announcement, the agreement valued NYSE
Euronext’s 40 percent stake at $9.53 billion. It has since
dwindled by about a third to $6.4 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The decline is the largest of any all-stock
takeover in the U.S. of at least $1 billion.  With Deutsche Boerse valued at $10.2 billion, the merged
entity would be worth just 3 percent more than the German
bourse’s capitalization before the acquisition was announced.  Shares of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse have retreated
as concern increased that  Europe ’s debt crisis will trigger a
recession and the  Federal Reserve  said there are “significant
downside risks” to the  U.S. economy .  Germany ’s 30-company  DAX Index (DAX)  has slid 25 percent from its
high on May 2 on speculation the nation will have to bail out
European governments to keep them from defaulting as the
region’s finance chiefs clash over how to assist  Greece . Germany
is the chief underwriter of emergency loans offered to Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal .  Transaction Tax  European Union proposals for a financial-transaction tax
have also dragged down Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext, which
owns exchanges in Amsterdam, Lisbon, Paris and Brussels, as well
as London-based Liffe, Europe’s second-largest  derivatives
market . The EU last month proposed a tax that would apply a levy
of 0.1 percent on trading of stocks and bonds, with a 0.01
percent rate for derivatives contracts, starting in 2014.  NYSE Euronext has tumbled 38 percent since the deal was
announced on Feb. 15, in line with Deutsche Boerse’s 37 percent
drop. The declines are more than double the 18 percent slide for
Nasdaq OMX.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  has lost 14 percent.  “In retrospect, as a New York Stock Exchange holder, I
would have appreciated greater cash consideration on the deal,”
said Tim Hoyle, research director for Radnor, Pennsylvania-based
Haverford Investments, which oversees $6.5 billion, said in a
telephone interview.  Sum of Parts  Still, “we’re considering adding to our New York Stock
Exchange position,” Hoyle said. “The markets have discounted
the value of the deal because of macro uncertainties, but the
prospects for both companies remain positive.”  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext currently trade at less
than 9 times analysts’ estimates for 2012 earnings, versus an
average of 15.2 times for exchanges worldwide, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. By applying the multiples of their
closest competitors across each of their four main businesses --
equity trading and listings, derivatives, settlement and custody,
and market data and technology -- the merged company could
command a valuation of 12 times, the data show.  That would give the company a $24 billion capitalization,
based the $2 billion in net income that the two exchanges will
earn next year, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  in August posted better-than-estimated
second-quarter earnings and sales, the 10th straight quarter
that it beat projections, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s prompted analysts to boost their earnings estimates for
2011 and 2012 by 3.4 percent and 0.9 percent, respectively.  Earnings Estimates  For the companies in the Bloomberg World Exchanges Index,
profit estimates are down 13 percent for 2011 and 15 percent for
2012 in the same time period, the data show.  NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse are also forecasting 400
million euros ($537 million) in cost savings and intend to boost
revenue by about 150 million euros from the merger, according to
an earnings presentation from NYSE Euronext on Aug. 2.  Creating a transatlantic exchange that generated more than
twice as much revenue in the past 12 months as any other trading
venue in the world is drawing scrutiny from European regulators.  Joaquin Almunia , the European Union’s antitrust
commissioner, said last month that he’s “concerned” the deal
may monopolize the derivatives market.  The exchanges received this week a statement of objections
listing the European Commission’s “provisional position” on
the merger and laying out possible competition issues.  ‘No-Deal Basis’  The EU can require companies to change their behavior or
sell off units to eliminate competition concerns. It has a Dec.
13 deadline to rule on the deal, which it can extend.  For  Thomas Caldwell , chief executive officer of Caldwell
Securities Ltd. in Toronto, NYSE Euronext has fallen so much
that betting on its future now outweighs the risks.  “The market is telling you it’s valued on almost a no-deal
basis,” Caldwell said in a telephone interview. “Fundamentals
are no longer the determining factor in the stock price, it’s
geopolitical events, it’s financial crises. There’s so much else
that’s impacting the stock prices now, and the New York Stock
Exchange is at a pretty good buying level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 