-- 
Community Health Calls at Five-Year High on Medicare: Options

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r ,   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-10-07T13:49:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/community-health-calls-at-five-year-high-on-medicare-options.html
Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH)  options
traders are the most bullish in five years, convinced shares
already reflect the impact of Medicare cuts on the second-
largest U.S. hospital owner.  Calls to buy shares of the Franklin, Tennessee-based
company outnumber puts to sell by more than 5-to-1, and last
month the ratio soared to 9.5, the highest since March 2006,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The hospital operator
trades for a record low 5.1 times earnings from the past year,
less than half the valuation for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, after the shares fell 61 percent since March through
yesterday.  The U.S. congressional supercommittee formed to reduce the
budget must decide on spending reductions by Nov. 23, or else
automatic cuts will take effect. Those would include a 2 percent
decrease in Medicare, which pays hospital owners such as
 Community Health .  “The Medicare reimbursement cuts that are being priced in
to Community Health’s valuation appear unrealistic,” Sam Goodyear, an analyst at New York-based CreditSights Inc., said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “The valuations are
attractive,” he said. “They’re way oversold.”  Tomi Galin, a spokeswoman for Community Health, declined to
comment, saying the company is in a “quiet period.”  The stock climbed 0.4 percent to $16.50 as of 9:35 a.m. in
New York.  President  Barack Obama  has proposed a $248 billion cut to
Medicare as part of a $1.5 trillion reduction of the U.S.
deficit. If the supercommittee, composed of six Democrats and
six Republicans, misses the Nov. 23 deadline, the federal
government will automatically reduce Medicare spending, which is
likely to lower reimbursements to hospitals.  Higher Valuation  A.J. Rice, a New York-based analyst at Susquehanna
Financial LLLP in New York, said Community Health would benefit
most should investors assign higher valuations to stocks in the
industry following the budget decision by Congress. A 1 point
increase in the ratio between enterprise value and earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization would
drive Community Health up about 135 percent, Rice said in an e-
mail yesterday.  HCA Holdings Inc. would advance 61 percent,  Tenet
Healthcare Corp. (THC)  would gain 56 percent and  Health Management
Associates Inc. (HMA)  would climb 52 percent, Rice said.  Five of the six Community Health options with the greatest
ownership, or open interest, are calls expiring about a month
after the supercommittee’s deadline. They include December $34
calls, which are priced 107 percent above the stock price.  Less Bullish  Community Health’s rivals have lower call-to-put ratios,
signaling less optimism. For Tenet, the third-largest U.S.
hospital operator, the figure is 1.87-to-1, down from 3.83 in
March. At HCA, the nation’s biggest hospital chain, it’s 1.59.  “Now seems like a pretty good time to bet on a return to
outperformance” for Community Health, Michael A. Gayed, chief
investment strategist at Pension Partners LLC in  New York , said
in an e-mail yesterday. His firm oversees about $140 million.
“Bullish wagers in the options market are sensing that the
multiyear weakness in the stock is about to reverse,” he said.  Community Health has slumped the most among 38 peers in the
S&P MidCap 400 Index this year. The company faces a federal
investigation spurred by an April lawsuit by Tenet, which
accused the company of overcharging Medicare at least $280
million. Tenet filed the lawsuit to help block Community
Health’s unsolicited takeover offer. Regulators probably won’t
finish the probe until sometime next year, said  Art Henderson ,
an analyst at Jefferies & Co in Nashville,  Tennessee .  VIX, VStoxx  “That kind of settlement could translate into a fine of
hundreds of millions for a company like Community Health if the
investigation finds something,” he said in a phone interview.
Henderson has a “hold” rating and $27 share-price estimate.  The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, jumped a record 160 percent during the third
quarter as concern grew the global economy was slowing and the
sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  was worsening. The volatility
gauge fell 0.6 percent to 35.68 today. In Europe, the VStoxx
Index, which measures the cost of protecting against Euro Stoxx
50 Index losses, dropped 5.9 percent to 40.10.  Investors shouldn’t grow complacent about the degree
reimbursements may drop should Medicare’s budget be reduced,
said  Les Funtleyder , a  money manager  and health-care strategist
at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.  “If they’re serious about  deficit reduction , hospitals are
the most exposed of any industry group if their reimbursements
get cut proportionally,” he said in a phone interview
yesterday.  Options Prices  Community Health puts priced 10 percent below the stock
price cost 1.09 times more than calls to buy the shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s near the six-
month low of 1.06 set on Sept. 26, indicating investors aren’t
paying up for protection from losses. The options with the
biggest open interest are December $29 calls, priced 76 percent
above the stock, and December $34 calls.  “When you see these options bets being made, sometimes
it’s a good indicator that you’d see a reversal,”  Walter Todd ,
who helps manage about $950 million at  Greenwood Capital  in
Greenwood,  South Carolina , said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “It’s not going to stay that extended on the
downside forever.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  