-- 
Conoco Names CEOs for New Production, Refining Companies

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-10-07T20:31:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/conocophillips-names-ceos-for-new-production-refining-companies.html
ConocoPhillips (COP) , the third-largest
U.S. oil company, named two men to lead the independent
production and refining companies that will be created by its
breakup next year.  Ryan M. Lance, 49, will be chairman and CEO of the oil and
gas company and Greg C. Garland, 53, will take those positions
at the refining business, ConocoPhillips said in a statement
today. Both men currently oversee exploration and production for
the company. Lance is senior vice president for international
exploration and production and Garland has the same title for
the Americas. Garland is the former head of Chevron Phillips
Chemical Co., half-owned by ConocoPhillips,  The company, based in Houston, said July 14 it would spin
off its refining segment next year and Chairman and CEO  Jim Mulva , 65, would retire after the split. The production company
will keep the ConocoPhillips name and have an estimated $110
billion in assets. The refining company will have $50 billion in
assets, including pipelines, chemical and marketing units,
according to a  Sept. 7 company presentation .  “Ryan Lance and Greg Garland are both longtime
ConocoPhillips people, so I would not expect the day-to-day way
the business runs is going to change too much under their
leadership,”  Jason Gammel , an analyst at Macquarie Capital
Europe Ltd. in  London , said in a telephone interview today.
Gammel has a “neutral” rating on ConocoPhillips shares and
owns none.  Group of Six  The selection of new leadership comes a year after
ConocoPhillips initiated a series of changes that included the
departures of President John Carrig and Chief Financial Officer
Sigmund Cornelius. At the time, the company listed Garland and
Lance among a group of six executives who were part of its top
management.  Other executives who were considered in the running for a
top job at the company included Alan Hirshberg, who formerly
worked for  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , and Willie Chiang, who has run the
company’s refining business. Chief Financial Officer Jeff Sheets
also has been part of ConocoPhillips’s leadership.  Both CEOs face challenges after the spinoff,  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in
Houston, said in a telephone interview today.  For the exploration and production company, that includes
gaining access to oil and natural-gas fields to try to boost
output and reserves, said Molchanov, who has a “market
perform” rating on ConocoPhillips shares and owns none.  ‘Effective, Relaxed Manner’  In refining, the new CEO will have to manage a business
facing a decline in North American and European demand, he said.  Garland understands strategy, is a good leader and has a
demeanor that makes him well liked by people who work for him,
said George Pilko, founder of Pilko & Associates, a Houston-
based company that advises chemical and energy companies on risk
and has done work for ConocoPhillips in the past.  “He’s got a very effective, relaxed manner,” Pilko said.
“Many CEOs are so hyper and wound tight, and Greg is always
relaxed and in control.”  Garland received a degree in chemical engineering from
 Texas A&M University  and has been with ConocoPhillips or
affiliated entities for more than 30 years, according to the
company.  Technical Background  Lance will take over the oil and gas business with a degree
in petroleum engineering from Montana Tech in Butte. That
technical background will help the company in future years as it
seeks to improve in exploration and possibly add acreage, said
 Philip Weiss , an analyst at Argus Research in  New York , who has
a “buy” on ConocoPhillips shares and doesn’t own any.  Lance has more than 26 years of oil and gas experience, the
company said, including 17 years at Atlantic Richfield, now a
subsidiary of BP Plc.  ConocoPhillips announced a plan in 2009 to sell $10 billion
in assets during two years to reduce debt and will expand that
by as much as $10 billion next year.  The company also plans to spend as much as $10 billion
buying back shares in 2012, after this year’s planned $11
billion stock repurchases.  ConocoPhillips fell 0.3 percent to $64.16 at the close in
New York. The shares have fallen 5.8 percent this year.  Exxon and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  are the two largest U.S. oil
companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Jim Polson} in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
{Edward Klump} in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  