-- 
Copper Rises for Third Day After Central-Bank Stimulus Actions

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-10-07T11:22:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/copper-rises-for-third-day-after-central-bank-stimulus-actions.html
Copper rose for a third day in  New
York , heading for its biggest weekly gain since April, after
European policy makers took steps to stimulate economies.  The  European Central Bank  said yesterday it would
reintroduce purchases of covered bonds and yearlong loans for
banks, and the  Bank of England  boosted its asset-purchase
program. A report today may show employment climbed in the U.S.,
the world’s second-biggest copper consumer, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Central-bank actions “helped to boost risk appetite,”
Christin Tuxen, an analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen,
said by phone. “There is quite some optimism that base metals
are heading for a rebound in the next couple of months.”  Copper for December delivery gained 5.8 cents, or 1.8
percent, to $3.3045 a pound by 7:06 a.m. on the Comex in New
York. Prices are up 4.8 percent this week, headed for the first
climb in five and the biggest since the week ended April 8.  The S&P GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities is up 2.3 percent
this week, led by nickel, after reaching the lowest level since
November on Oct. 4 amid concern a worsening European debt crisis
would crimp demand.  “Sentiment has improved, and that is leading to some
bargain-hunting,”  William Adams , head of research at
Basemetals.com, said in a report today.  Copper for three-month delivery gained 1.3 percent to
$7,319 a metric ton on the  London  Metal Exchange.  U.S. Employment  Figures due at 8:30 a.m. New York time may show U.S.
employment climbed by 55,000 workers after no change in August,
according to the median forecast of 91 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The jobless rate was 9.1 percent for a third
consecutive month, according to the forecasts.  Stockpiles of copper monitored by the LME declined 1
percent, the most since January, to 467,100 tons, daily exchange
figures showed. Canceled warrants, or orders to draw metal from
inventories, climbed 71 percent this week on gains in  Singapore 
and  South Korea .  Chinese trade figures scheduled for release next week will
have to show “signs of a rebound” for metals to post “a
sustainable rally in prices,” Danske’s Tuxen said. “Import
data next week will be quite important for metals markets going
forward.”  Zinc, lead and tin rose in London, aluminum was little
changed and nickel fell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  