-- 
Credit Lyonnais Agrees to Settle AIG Suit for $150 Million

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-10-07T22:51:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/credit-lyonnais-agrees-to-settle-aig-lawsuit-for-150-million.html
Credit Lyonnais SA agreed to settle a
suit filed by  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s SunAmerica
unit over its 1993 investment in a  California  insurance company
that the French bank had illegally acquired.  AIG Retirement Services, formerly SunAmerica, and Credit
Lyonnais, filed a settlement agreement yesterday in federal
court in  Los Angeles . The settling parties also include
Consortium de Realisation SA, a French state-owned company that
took on Credit Lyonnais’s unprofitable assets and liabilities
related to Executive Life Insurance Co., the California insurer.  The AIG unit sued a group of French companies including
Credit Lyonnais in 2005, alleging that it was defrauded when it
bought a 33 percent stake in New California Holdings Inc.
because it didn’t know that the French owners, a group led by
MAAF Assurances SA, were a front for Credit Lyonnais. At the
time, the French bank couldn’t own an insurer under U.S. law.  “We’re pleased to have resolved our dispute with this
group of settling defendants,” Mark Herr, a spokesman for New
York-based AIG said in an e-mailed statement.  New California is the restructured successor of Executive
Life, which was taken over by the state of California after it
had become insolvent and was later sold to the MAAF group.
 France , on behalf of Credit Lyonnais, paid $600 million to
settle claims the bank misled regulators by not disclosing it
was the true owner of Executive Life.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  bought Credit Lyonnais in 2003.  Settled Claims  MAAF in August agreed to pay $24 million to settle AIG’s
claims. Artemis SA, the holding company of French billionaire
 Francois Pinault , is still a defendant in the case. The trial is
scheduled to start Oct. 18.  The potential claims in the lawsuit were as much as
$1 billion, George Terwilliger, a lawyer for Consortium de
Realisation, said in a telephone interview. The case was the
last one pending over Credit Lyonnais’s involvement in the
takeover of Executive Life in the early 1990s, Terwilliger said.  “We believe this was a fair and reasonable settlement,”
Terwilliger said.  The French state had to bail out Credit Lyonnais in 1995
and transferred the unprofitable assets, including those related
to Executive Life, to state-owned Consortium de Realisation. The
bank was set up in 1863 to fund businesses in the French town of
Lyon. Credit Lyonnais was nationalized after World War II.
 Credit Agricole  bought the bank in May 2003 for 16 billion euros
($21.5 billion).  Lawrence Friedman, a lawyer for Credit Lyonnais, declined
to comment.  The case is AIG Retirement Services v. Altus Finance,
05-1035, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  