-- 
Crude Set for First Weekly Gain in Three Before U.S. Employment Report

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-10-07T07:39:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/crude-oil-erases-decline-in-new-york-heads-for-first-weekly-gain-in-three.html
Oil headed for its first weekly gain
in three weeks in  New York  before an employment report forecast
to show the U.S. gained jobs last month.  Futures are set for a 4.4 percent gain this week. The
European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet yesterday
announced a bond-purchase program to tackle the region’s debt
crisis. U.S. crude stockpiles declined last week to the lowest
level since January, the Energy Department said Oct. 5.  “If we get a good print on the jobs number, we could get a
bit of rally in oil here,” said Jeremy Friesen, a commodity
strategist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . “We expect it
to be a positive surprise versus consensus, and that should give
some life to oil.”  Crude for November delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  was up 10 cents at $82.69 a barrel at 8:32 a.m. London
time after climbing as high as $83.08. The contract yesterday
climbed $2.91 to $82.59, for a two-day gain of 9.1 percent, the
biggest since Feb. 22-23.  Brent oil for November settlement fell 0.2 percent to
$105.56 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a premium of
$22.94 to New York crude, compared with a record of $26.87 on
Sept. 6.  Non-Farm Payrolls  U.S. employment rose by 55,000 workers last month,
according to the median estimate of 91 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before today’s report on non-farm payrolls. The
jobless rate has been at 9 percent or higher since April.  The Energy Department said crude inventories fell 4.7
million barrels to 336.3 million last week, the lowest since the
period ending Jan. 21. An increase of 1.5 million barrels was
expected, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Brent crude futures have slipped 8.5 percent since Sept. 15
amid concerns the debt crisis in  Europe  will crimp demand for
fuels. Prices have yet to find a floor because of “damage” to
consumer and business confidence, SocGen said in a report
yesterday from analyst  Michael Wittner  in New York. He
reiterated his forecast that the European benchmark may trade
between $90 and $100 a barrel for the rest of this year.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
export about 22.72 million barrels a day in the four weeks to
Oct. 22, little changed from the 22.74 million a day shipped in
the month to Sept. 24, Halifax, England-based Oil Movements said
yesterday in a report. Shipments typically rise at this time of
year as refiners prepare to boost production of winter fuels.
The figures exclude Ecuador and  Angola .  Libya  Output  Crude also gained on signs that oil from Libya, once
 Africa ’s third-largest producer, may return faster than expected
after a rebellion against Col. Muammar Ghadafi.  Eni SpA said there was no serious damage done to its
Elephant oil field in Libya. The company is “not aware of any
heavy damage” to the Elephant field, a press officer said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. Mellitah Oil & Gas BV, which
operates some Libyan fields for Eni and the country’s National
Oil Corp., said Oct. 2 pipelines and wells at the field were in
“OK” condition. Mellitah Chairman Najmi Karim said an initial
assessment only showed damage to worker accommodations and the
theft of some equipment such as portable generators.  Fighting in Libya reduced the availability of light, sweet
crude, or oil with low density and sulfur content. The country’s
output fell to 45,000 barrels a day in August, according to
Bloomberg estimates. The North African nation pumped 100,000
barrels a day last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Gordon  at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net  