-- 
David Beckham Will Stay With Los Angeles Galaxy, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-10-07T09:38:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/david-beckham-will-stay-with-los-angeles-galaxy-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  L.A. Extension  David Beckham  will probably reject an 18-month contract
with Paris Saint-Germain worth 4 million pounds ($6.2 million)
after deciding to stay in Los Angeles,  the Sun said.   The  Los Angeles Galaxy  offered the former England captain a
one-year extension to his contract, which ends in December, the
newspaper said. Beckham, who wants to make sure his children
have a stable upbringing, will make a decision after the  Major
League Soccer  playoffs, the Sun said.  Beckham has also attracted interest from Leicester City,
Queens Park Rangers, and teams in Brazil and the Middle East,
the newspaper said.  Carragher Plans  Liverpool defender Jamie Carragher said he may retire in
the next two years,  the Daily Mail said.   The 33-year-old vice-captain has played for Liverpool for
14 years, the newspaper said. He said his future will be decided
by team coach  Kenny Dalglish , the newspaper said.  Arteta’s Transfer  Mikel Arteta  said there wasn’t time for a medical exam
before moving to Arsenal from Everton on transfer deadline day
and he agreed to assume liability if he had a health issue,  the
Daily Mirror said .  Arsenal paid 10 million pounds for the Spaniard who needed
12 months to recover from a knee ligament injury suffered in
February 2009, the Mirror said.  Anelka for Russia?  Chelsea striker Nicolas Anelka is being pursued by Russian
team Terek Grozny,  the Daily Mail said.   The 32-year-old’s contract ends at the end of the season
and he’s been linked to moves to Turkey and Major League Soccer,
the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 