-- 
Goldman, Deutsche Bank, Lone Star, Apple in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-10-07T10:27:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/deutsche-bank-credit-suisse-lone-star-apple-in-court-news.html
A unit of  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ) , the bankrupt investment bank, sued a unit of  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  over a failed $1.25 billion real-estate deal.  Rosslyn LB Syndication Partner LLC, a Lehman unit not in
bankruptcy, accused USREO/Rosslyn Investors LLC, a Goldman Sachs
unit, of terminating a transaction related to an office building
portfolio in Arlington, Virginia, according to a filing
yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  The Goldman unit’s “obligations (which it failed to
perform) are absolute,” according to the filing. Rosslyn LB is
seeking more than $100 million in damages.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Lehman Brothers filed the largest bankruptcy in U.S.
history on Sept. 15, 2008. The U.S. brokerage went into
liquidation four days later.  The judge overseeing Lehman’s bankruptcy approved the
proposed sale of its 78.5 percent interest in the 3 million-
square-foot commercial real estate project on Aug. 17, court
papers show. Two days before the scheduled closing date,
USREO/Rosslyn terminated the agreement based on “pretextual
reasons,” Lehman lawyers said in court papers.  The case is Rosslyn LB Syndication Partner LLC v.
USREO/Rosslyn Investors, LLC, 11-02764, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Madoff Trustee Sues ABN Amro, Nomura to Recoup $47 Million  Irving H. Picard, the trustee liquidating Bernard L.
Madoff’s money management firm, sued  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s
Nomura International and ABN Amro Group NV’s ABN Amro Bank to
recover a total of $46.9 million.  The companies invested with Madoff, who ran the biggest
Ponzi scheme, through feeder funds, according to the lawsuits
filed yesterday in bankruptcy court in Manhattan. Picard seeks
to recover $25.5 million transferred to Amsterdam-based ABN Amro
and $21.4 million transferred to Tokyo-based Nomura.  “The subsequent transfers were derived from investments
with BLMIS,” Picard said in the suits, referring to Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC.  Picard also filed lawsuits seeking $110 million from KBC
Investments Ltd. and $50.1 million from Caceis Bank Luxembourg.  The trustee alleges the money was invested in the Madoff
firm and taken out through feeder funds such as Fairfield Sentry
Ltd. and Harley International (Cayman) Ltd.  Madoff is serving a 150-year prison sentence for running
the biggest Ponzi scheme in history.  Mike Geller, a spokesman for Royal Bank of Scotland, which
now owns ABN Amro, declined to comment on the lawsuit. Suzanne
Hallberg, a spokeswoman for Nomura, declined to comment.  A call to a representative of Caceis Investor Services in
New York wasn’t immediately returned. A call after business
hours to Viviane Huybrecht, director of communications for KBC
in Brussels, wasn’t immediately returned.  The cases are Picard v. ABN Amro Bank NV, 11-ap-2760, and
Picard v. Nomura International Plc, 11-ap-2759, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Loreley Sues Deutsche Bank Over CDOs ‘Designed’ to Fail  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest bank, was sued by
Loreley Financing over $440 million worth of collateralized debt
obligations purchased from 2005 to 2007.  The bank is accused of defrauding the plaintiffs into
purchasing CDOs that were “destined --and indeed, designed-- to
fail,” Loreley Financing said in a complaint filed Oct. 5 in
New York State  Supreme Court  in Manhattan.  Each of the collateralized debt obligations was “a
fraudulent investment vehicle created and exploited by
defendants for their own benefit and the benefit of certain
preferred Deutsche Bank clients looking to profit from the
imminent collapse of the subprime mortgage market,” Loreley
Financing said in the complaint.  Loreley Financing is a group of special-purpose entities
based in Jersey, the largest of the Channel Islands, a
dependency of the U.K. with its own legislative assembly and
known as a tax haven. The entities were formed for long-term
investing in CDOs, pools of assets such as mortgage bonds
packaged into new securities, Loreley Financing said in the
complaint.  “We believe these claims are unfounded and will vigorously
defend against them,” Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank said in a
statement.  The case is Loreley Financing (Jersey) No. 3 Ltd. v.
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., 652737/2011, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  IKB Deutsche Sues Credit Suisse Over Mortgage Securities  IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG (IKB)  sued  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, in New York over $16 million
worth of residential mortgage-backed securities.  The suit stems from Credit Suisse’s misrepresentations
concerning the sale of residential mortgage-backed securities
and its role in creating the securities, known as HEAT 05-8 and
CXHE 05-D, IKB said in court papers filed yesterday in New York
state court.  IKB is seeking reversal of the sale and purchase of the
notes and restitution of the $10 million purchase price of the
HEAT 05-8 notes and the $6 million purchase price of the CXHE
05-D notes, as well as damages, the Dusseldorf-based bank said
in court papers.  Credit Suisse views the allegations as “merit-less,”
Steven Vames, a spokesman for the bank, said in a statement. IKB
was “well informed on the risks associated with these
investments,” the company said.  IKB, which was bailed out during the subprime mortgage
crisis, was put up for sale by buyout firm  Lone Star Funds .
Dallas-based Lone Star paid about 137 million euros ($185
million) to take control of IKB in August 2008.  IKB also sued Citigroup Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  last
month in the same court over residential mortgage-backed
securities.  The case is IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG vs. Credit Suisse
Securities AG, 652735/2011, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  EX-AFG CEO Hand Plotted to Kill Witness, Prosecutor Says  A man convicted for his role in a fraudulent $100 million
mortgage scheme, former AFG Financial Group Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Aaron Hand, was charged with plotting to kill a witness
who testified against him.  Hand, 39, sentenced in 2010 to as long as 25 years in
prison, was arraigned yesterday in New York State Supreme Court
in Manhattan on two counts of attempted murder in the first
degree, one count of attempted murder in the second degree and
one count of conspiracy to commit murder. He faces 4 1/2 years
to life in prison if convicted.  “The motive for this attempted murder was revenge, plain
and simple,” Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr.
said in a statement.  Hand pleaded not guilty, and his lawyer, Kevin Canfield,
said his client was entrapped by the police.  Hand was the mastermind of a mortgage scheme that defrauded
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and other banks,
according to Vance’s office, which said it won convictions
against all 27 people charged.  In August, an investigator with the district attorney’s
office received a tip that Hand, while incarcerated at New York
State Coxsackie Correctional Facility, was attempting to arrange
the murder of a witness who testified against him during a nine-
week trial in July 2010, according to the statement.  Based on this evidence, an undercover investigator from the
district attorney’s office was sent to meet with Hand on Aug.
26, posing as a “hitman,” according to Vance’s statement. Hand
instructed the agent to kill the witness, who hasn’t been
identified, Assistant District Attorney Peirce Moser said in
court yesterday. The witness was a cooperating defendant.  The case is People v. Hand, 4870/2011, New York Supreme
Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  U.K. Sues Over ECB Limits on Clearing Euro-Denominated Trades  The U.K. sued the  European Central Bank  over plans to block
trades in some euro-denominated securities from being cleared
outside of the 17 countries that share the currency.  In the first such move by a government, the U.K.’s lawsuit
against the ECB over its location policy for clearinghouses was
registered at the EU General Court in Luxembourg. A hearing
could come within two years and a ruling may take as long as
three years.  The case was registered at the EU court, the region’s
second-highest, on Sept. 15, according to the tribunal’s press
service, the same day the U.K. Treasury said it would take
action. In parallel with the court case, the U.K. is seeking
safeguards in a draft EU law on over-the-counter derivatives
that would protect clearinghouses from pressure to relocate.  EU finance ministers this week agreed to stipulate in the
law that “no member state or a group of member states” should
be discriminated against as a venue for clearing services. The
final version of the rules must be hammered out in negotiations
between governments and lawmakers in the European Parliament.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said after
the ministerial meeting that the draft had been adjusted to take
into account his country’s concerns.  “We have inserted into the article of the draft directive
an explicit reference to non-discrimination against any member
state in any currency,” Osborne said. “Of course we still have
our legal action with the ECB, but in terms of the draft
directive here on derivatives we have the clearest possible
statement of a non-discriminatory location policy.”  The case is T-496/11 pending case, United Kingdom v. ECB.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Union Carbide Judge Removed From $322 Million-Verdict Case  The Mississippi Supreme Court granted a request by  Dow
Chemical Co. (DOW) ’s Union Carbide unit to disqualify the judge who
presided over an asbestos trial that ended with a $322 million
verdict against the company.  Union Carbide argued that state Circuit Court Judge Eddie
Bowen shouldn’t have presided over the trial that ended on May 4
because his father suffered from asbestosis, a disease caused by
the mineral that sickened plaintiff Thomas Brown. The company
claimed the defense was denied a fair trial.  The high court ordered Oct. 5 Bowen removed and stopped all
action on the case until a new judge is appointed, without
addressing the status of the verdict.  “We find that a reasonable person, knowing all of the
circumstances, would harbor doubts about Judge Bowen’s
impartiality in this particular case,” the court said.  Bowen’s father filed two asbestos lawsuits, one of which is
still pending, and both his parents had settled a claim with
Union Carbide and other defendants based on a diagnosis of
asbestosis, according to the court’s ruling, which cited an
independent probe by the Dow Chemical unit.  Judy Herrington, a circuit court administrator, said in a
phone interview that Bowen said he isn’t permitted to comment on
the matter. The judge was sworn in at the Raleigh, Mississippi,
courthouse in September 2010, according to a statement the court
issued at the time.  The May 4 award is the largest ever made to a single
asbestos case plaintiff, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A state punitive-damages cap would erase at least
$260 million.  Union Carbide is “gratified” by the state Supreme Court
ruling, a company spokesman, Scot Wheeler, said in an e-mailed
statement. The jury verdict was “outrageous and completely
unsupported by the facts and applicable law,” he said.  “We look forward to this case being remanded to the trial
court for further proceedings before a new judge,” Wheeler said.  Brown’s lawyer, D. Allen Hossley, didn’t reply to after-
hours voice-mail and e-mail messages seeking comment.  The case is Brown v. Phillips Co., 2006-196, Circuit Court,
Smith County, Mississippi (Raleigh).  AT&T Judge Asked by U.S., Company to Appoint Special Master  AT&T Inc. (T)  and the U.S. Justice Department asked a federal
judge to appoint a special master to help manage the
government’s lawsuit seeking to block the company’s purchase of
T-Mobile USA Inc.  In a motion filed yesterday in federal court in  Washington ,
AT&T and the government requested that Richard Levie, a retired
judge, be named a special master to oversee the process of the
two sides exchanging information as the case moves toward trial.
Special masters are often appointed in complex lawsuits to help
the judge administer a case.  Levie’s help will be important “in light of the expedited
trial” schedule, according to the request. Last month, U.S.
District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle, who is hearing the case, set
a trial date for Feb. 13.  A former associate judge on the District of Columbia
Superior Court, Levie has worked as a mediator since 2000,
according to the  website  of London-based JAMS, a private
dispute-resolution service.  Levie has mediated cases involving telecommunications,
high-tech and health-care matters, according to the website.
He’s the former president of the Academy of Court Appointed
Masters.  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a
combination of the two companies would be anticompetitive. The
acquisition would make AT&T the biggest U.S. wireless carrier,
followed by Verizon Communications and No. 3 Sprint Nextel Corp.  Separate suits to block the purchase have been filed by
Sprint and Ridgeland, Mississippi-based Cellular South Inc., the
ninth-largest by customers.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials  S&P Didn’t ‘Rubber Stamp’ Notes, Company Says  Standard & Poor’s , the ratings company accused of bowing to
pressure from an Australian bank to issue its highest rating for
notes that lost 94 percent of their value, thoroughly
investigated the investment and didn’t just “rubber stamp” the
bank’s opinion, a court was told.  S&P was sued along with ABN Amro Bank NV, the Australian
affiliate of Royal Bank of Scotland, by Australian towns over
the sale of notes called Rembrandt that plummeted in value
during the global financial crisis in 2008.  In the first lawsuit of its kind in the world, according to
IMF (Australia) Ltd., which is funding the litigation, damages
are being sought from S&P for misleading investors with its
ratings. S&P, a unit of New York-based McGraw-Hill Cos., rated
the Rembrandt notes AAA based on data supplied by ABN Amro Bank
and under “significant pressure” from the bank, said Noel
Hudley, a lawyer representing the towns.  “You are the wuss for bending over in front of bankers and
taking it,” Sebastian Venus, who had prepared an internal model
for the notes at S&P, told Derek Ding, an analyst responsible
for rating them, according to e-mail transcripts in a written
version of the plaintiffs’ opening statement that was released
by the court. “You rate something AAA, when it’s really A-?”  The plaintiffs cite “selectively” from the hundreds of
documents that were submitted, S&P said in a written version of
the opening statement its own lawyers presented in court.  “Those e-mail exchanges also evidence the fact that S&P
did not simply rubber stamp ABN’s opinion,” the company said in
the filing. “Conflicting views are to be expected in the
context of any serious process of analysis and consideration.”  A dozen Australian townships claim they lost A$15 million
($14.3 million) of A$16 million invested in the Community Income
Constant Proportion Debt Obligation Notes. The notes were
unwound less than two years after the towns bought them because
credit spreads kept increasing and the notes’ cash value was
exhausted, according to court documents.  The towns also sued Local Government Financial Services
Ltd., a municipal financial adviser that bought the notes from
ABN Amro Bank and resold them to the towns. LGFS also sued the
bank, accusing it of breach of contract.  The case is Bathurst Regional Council v. Local Government
Financial Services Ltd. NSD936/2009. Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  Airlines May Lose Battle Over EU’s Carbon Caps at Top Court  International airlines should lose a challenge to the
European Union’s planned expansion of its carbon cap-and-trade
system beyond the bloc’s borders, an adviser to the region’s top
court said.  “The inclusion of international aviation in the EU
emissions trading scheme is compatible with international law,”
Advocate General Juliane Kokott of the EU Court of Justice in
Luxembourg said in a non-binding opinion yesterday. The court
follows this advice, at least in part, most of the time.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American
Airlines and the Air Transport Association of America challenged
the EU’s first attempt to extend the world’s largest carbon cap-
and-trade program beyond its borders. The EU regulator last
month said it won’t ditch its plans to impose carbon curbs on
flights to and from the region’s airports starting next year.  At a court hearing in July, the airlines said the EU’s
plans to extend the EU carbon market to all flights that depart
from or arrive at an airport in the region are unlawful. The
advice by Kokott, one of eight advocates general at the EU
court, gives an indication of which way the tribunal may rule.  The case is  C-366/10 , Air Transport Association of America
v. Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Oracle to Pay $199.5 Million to End U.S. Overbilling Case  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the world’s second-biggest software maker,
will pay more than $199.5 million to settle allegations it
overbilled the U.S. government for nine years.  The accord resolves a lawsuit claiming Oracle induced the
General Services Administration to buy $1.08 billion in software
from 1998 to 2006 by falsely promising the same discounts
offered to favored commercial customers. The Justice Department,
which pursued the case after joining a whistleblower lawsuit,
and Oracle announced the settlement yesterday.  The payout is the largest ever obtained by the GSA under
the False Claims Act, which lets citizens sue on behalf of the
government and share in any recovery. Former Oracle employee
 Paul Frascella , who filed the case in 2007, will get $40
million.  “Companies that engage in unlawful or fraudulent practices
to secure government business undermine the integrity of the
procurement process and create an unfair advantage,” Tony West,
assistant attorney general of the Justice Department’s civil
division, said in a statement.  The U.S. joined Frascella’s case in federal court in
Alexandria, Virginia, and filed its own complaint last year. It
claimed Oracle gave companies discounts of as much as 92
percent, while the government’s cuts ranged from 25 to 40
percent.  Deborah Hellinger, a spokeswoman for Redwood City,
California-based Oracle, said in a statement that the company
“denies that it did not scrupulously adhere to the pricing
requirements of that contract.”  Oracle has “strong controls in place to insure that the
government agencies who purchased from the GSA schedule received
fair pricing,” she said. “Oracle never committed any fraud
whatsoever.”  The case is United States of America v. Oracle Corp., 07-cv-
00529, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia
(Alexandria).  For more, click here.  Lone Star Found Guilty of Stock Manipulation by Seoul Court  Lone Star Funds was found guilty of stock-price
manipulation and the former head of its South Korean unit was
jailed after a five-year legal dispute that stalled the U.S.
buyout fund’s efforts to sell  Korea Exchange Bank. (004940)   Paul Yoo was sentenced to three years in prison by Judge
Cho Kyung Ran yesterday. Korea Exchange Bank was found not
guilty, Cho said after presiding over a retrial ordered by the
Supreme Court this year following their acquittal in June 2008.  The verdict may remove the final barrier to Lone Star’s
sale of Korea Exchange to  Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790) , after the
litigation delayed its plan to offload the 51 percent stake and
derailed two earlier attempts. A public backlash over Lone
Star’s legal woes and profit on its eight-year investment may
deter foreign takeovers, impeding the government’s plans to sell
state assets such as Woori Finance Holdings Co.  “It has taken too long for the resolution of the KEB-Lone
Star case,” Hank Morris, North Asia adviser at Triple A
Partners Ltd., said by e-mail before the verdict. The delay
“will have had a negative effect upon the plans of global
investors in regard to direct investment into Korea.”  Lone Star was fined 25 billion won ($21 million) by the
court. South Korea’s financial regulator may order Lone Star to
sell most of its stake in Korea Exchange Bank if the fund fails
to prove it is a legitimate shareholder, the Financial Services
Commission said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “Now it’s all up to the regulator and we’ll follow the
their decision,” Hana Financial President Kim Jong Yeol said by
phone yesterday. “We will do our utmost to complete the Korea
Exchange Bank takeover to best serve our shareholders.”  Korea Exchange Bank spokesman Lee Sun Hwan said the company
respects the court’s decision to clear it of the manipulation
charge. He declined to comment on the FSC’s remark that it may
order Lone Star to sell its stake.  Jed Repko, a spokesman for Lone Star in New York, didn’t
respond to phone calls or reply to an e-mail sent after regular
office hours.  For more, click here.  Del Monte, Barclays Pay $89.4 Million to Settle Buyout Suits  Del Monte Foods Co. (DLM)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  agreed to pay $89.4
million to settle investor lawsuits over the buyout of the pet-
food maker by private-equity firms led by KKR & Co.  Investors in Del Monte, maker of Meow Mix cat food and Milk
Bone dog biscuits, will get at least 30 cents more a share to
resolve claims they weren’t paid enough in the $19-a-share
buyout, Stuart Grant, a lawyer for the investors, said yesterday
in an interview. A Delaware judge must approve the accord before
it becomes final.  “Del Monte has entered into the proposed settlement to
eliminate the uncertainties, burden, and expense of further
litigation,” the San Francisco-based company said yesterday in
a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing. The companies
denied any wrongdoing under the accord.  The settlement also resolves investors’ claims that London-
based Barclays, which served as Del Monte’s financial adviser
while providing some financing for the buyers, had conflicting
interests in the $5.3 billion deal. The private-equity group led
by New York-based KKR included Vestar Capital Partners and
Centerview Partners LLP.  Barclays was paid $23.5 million to advise Del Monte and as
much as $24 million for providing loans to the buyers, according
to investors’ suits filed in Delaware Chancery Court in
Wilmington.  “We are pleased that the parties have agreed to settle the
litigation to avoid the expense, distraction and uncertainty of
litigation,” Kerrie-Ann Cohen, a Barclays spokeswoman, said in
an e-mailed statement. “We believe that the sale process
leading up to the merger achieved the best price reasonably
available for Del Monte stockholders.”  Kristi Huller, a KKR spokeswoman, and Chrissy Stengel, a
Del Monte spokeswoman, both declined to comment on the accord.  The case is In re Del Monte Foods Co. Shareholder
Litigation, CA6027, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Soros Loses Case Against French Insider-Trading Conviction  Billionaire investor George Soros lost a challenge to his
2002 insider trading conviction, with the  European Court of
Human Rights  saying French market regulations were clear enough
to hold him responsible.  France didn’t violate Soros’s rights in punishing him
criminally for trading on inside information about  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA in spite of the market regulator’s conclusion that
its rules were unclear, the Strasbourg, France-based court said.  “Soros was a famous institutional investor, well-known to
the business community and a participant in major financial
projects,” the court said in a statement about its  ruling . “As
a result of his status and experience, he could not have been
unaware that his decision to invest” risked violating insider-
trading laws, and given “there had been no comparable
precedent, he should have been particularly prudent.”  Soros, 81, was convicted in 2002 of insider trading and
ordered to repay 2.2 million euros ($2.9 million) he’d made from
the share purchase and subsequent sale after a Paris court found
he’d acted with the knowledge that the bank might be a takeover
target. While prosecutors filed criminal charges, French stock
market regulators didn’t pursue Soros, saying insider-trading
laws were too vague to determine whether he’d broken them.  “It is inconceivable to expect that the citizen has a
better understanding of the law than the authority in charge”
of market regulation, Ron Soffer, Soros’s lawyer, said. “The
opinion of the regulatory authority is an irrebuttable
presumption as to the lack of clarity of the law.”  Soros will appeal the four-to-three ruling to the court’s
Grand Chamber, Soffer said.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Apple General Counsel Becomes Protector of Jobs’s Vision  If Steve Jobs was the creative force that made  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
products hip, General Counsel Bruce Sewell is the authority in
keeping competitors from copying those ideas.  Hired from  Intel Corp. (INTC)  in 2009, Sewell, 52, has led Apple’s
fight against mobile devices running Google Inc.’s Android
operating system in lawsuits spanning four continents. His
biggest role has been in coordinating the Cupertino, California-
based company’s legal strategy against Android customers Samsung
Electronics Co., Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and  HTC Corp. (2498)   Before Sewell, Apple rarely filed lawsuits, typically only
targeting small companies making unapproved accessories for Mac
computers or, as with the case against  Nokia Oyj (NOK) , retaliating
for a suit against it. Then came the iPhone.  Jobs unveiled the iPhone in 2007, saying Apple had applied
for more than 200 patents for the device and was ready to
enforce them. Within six months of being hired in 2009, Sewell
put those words into action when the company filed its first
pro-active patent-infringement suit against an Android handset
maker, seeking an order to ban some phones made by Taoyuan,
Taiwan-based HTC from the U.S.  Since then, Apple also has sued to stop sales of Samsung’s
Galaxy phone and tablets, claiming the products “slavishly”
copy the iPhone and iPad.  For more, click here.  Baum Law Firm to Pay $2 Million Over Foreclosure Practices  Steven J. Baum’s foreclosure law firm, one of the largest
in New York state, will pay the U.S. $2 million and change its
practices to resolve a probe into its mortgage-related legal
filings.  The agreement resolves an investigation into whether the
Baum firm filed misleading pleadings, affidavits and mortgage
assignments in courts, according to a statement yesterday by
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan.  “There are no excuses for sloppy practices that could lead
to someone mistakenly losing their home,” Bharara said in the
statement. “Homeowners facing foreclosure cannot afford to have
faulty paperwork or inadequate evidence submitted, and today’s
agreement will help minimize that risk.”  Steven J. Baum PC, located in Amherst, New York, just north
of Buffalo, has attracted lawsuits and fines for its actions
during the housing crisis. It has been accused of overcharging,
filing false documents and representing parties on both sides of
a mortgage transfer.  The changes in procedure “go over and above what current
law requires,” Baum said in an e-mailed statement. “We will
continue to adhere to the highest ethical standards.”  The agreement calls for the firm’s employees to halt their
practice of assigning mortgages as supposed employees of
Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems Inc., an electronic
database of mortgages.  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 