-- 
Deutsche Bank Makes Provision for CO2 Fraud Suit, Mediobanca Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-10-07T14:17:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/deutsche-bank-makes-provision-for-co2-tax-fraud-suit-mediobanca-says.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  probably made a
provision of about 140 million euros ($188 million) for possible
tax claims associated with the European Union carbon market,
according to  Mediobanca SpA. (MB)   The provision has helped cut earnings at its investment
banking division,  Christopher Wheeler , an equity analyst in
Mediobanca’s  London  office, said today in a note to clients.  The company will provide details of “operating costs
relating to an indirect tax position” in the third quarter,
with publication of a report on Oct. 25, Armin Niedermeier, a
Frankfurt-based spokesman for Deutsche Bank, said by phone
today. The company first announced the provision on Oct. 4,
without specifying it related to the carbon market.  The bank,  Germany ’s biggest lender, may have to cover part
of the 250 million euros in taxes that prosecutors said was lost
to the country in the trading-fraud scheme, Martin Wulf, a tax
attorney at law firm Streck Mack Schwedhelm in Berlin, said in
August. Six defendants who don’t work for the bank are currently
standing trial in  Frankfurt  in the case.  Courts have allowed tax authorities to seek the return of
deductions from the last company that bought goods in a trading
chain, provided it knew or should have known that at some point
tax fraud happened, said Wulf.  About 400 million metric tons of EU emission trades may
have been fraudulent in 2009, or about 7 percent of the total
market, including futures deals, according to estimates made in
March last year by Bloomberg New Energy Finance. BNEF is a unit
of Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News. Benchmark carbon
rose 0.1 percent today to 10.48 euros a metric ton on the ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange in London as of 3:02 p.m. local time.  ‘Five Billion Euros’  Europe lost about 5 billion euros in revenue for the 18
months ending 2009 because of the CO2 VAT fraud, according to
Europol, the European law-enforcement agency.  Because Deutsche Bank bought some allowances, the
government may attempt to recover the lost taxes by reclaiming
VAT refunds it granted the lender, Wulf said. Prosecutors are
probing 170 suspects, including seven Deutsche Bank employees.  “If the tax authorities can get a company like Deutsche
Bank to pick up the tab, they shout ‘‘hurray,’’ said Wulf, who
isn’t involved in the case. ‘‘They couldn’t care less about the
little perpetrators who started the whole thing but mostly
either have no money left or brought it out of reach.”  Deutsche Bank expects that its employees will be cleared,
Christian Streckert, a spokesman for the Frankfurt-based lender,
said in August. The bank hired Clifford Chance LLP to review the
issue and the  law firm  hadn’t found any indications of
misconduct by the bank or its employees, he said at the time.
The bank still expects that it can keep VAT deductions made
after buying certificates, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  