-- 
Deutsche Bank Buying May Signal Tax-Exempt Slump Nearing End: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-10-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/deutsche-bank-buying-may-signal-slump-nearing-end-muni-credit.html
Miller Tabak Asset Management and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s U.S. wealth-management group are buying
municipal securities, signaling that the $2.9 trillion market’s
worst slide in at least two years may be nearing an end.  Interest rates  on top-rated tax-exempt debt due in 10 years
climbed to the most since August yesterday. They were as much as
123 percent above those on similar-maturity Treasuries, the
highest since April 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The ratio has increased as issuers such as the
Oklahoma Turnpike Authority borrow $8.7 billion this week, the
busiest period since December.  “There’s a very good opportunity to take advantage of two
markets which have gotten out of tilt from each other,” said
Gary Pollack, head of fixed-income trading in New York at the
private wealth-management arm of Deutsche Bank. The unit of
 Germany ’s largest lender oversees $12 billion in debt.  Pollack said in a telephone interview that he sold 10-year
Treasuries this week to buy general-obligation bonds. He
declined to say how much he purchased. Philadelphia-based Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages $11.8 billion in fixed
income, said in an Oct. 5 report that it saw “opportunity
knocking” in the rising ratio, which has eclipsed its
historical average.  Finding Value  Investors are finding value in tax-free debt as Treasury
rates have dropped since the  Federal Reserve  said last month it
would buy more long-term securities to push down mortgage and
other loan rates. Seven straight quarters of year-over-year
improvement in state and local-government tax revenue are also
spurring confidence that municipal defaults, which are running
at about a quarter of last year’s rate, won’t accelerate.  “The low default rate and fiscally responsible behavior on
the part of state and local governments support the strong
potential for municipal outperformance” as the supply of new
bonds diminishes later this year, Peter DeGroot, a strategist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a research note yesterday.  From 2001 through 2007, 10-year tax-exempt yields averaged
86 percent of rates on Treasuries, interest from which is
taxable, Bloomberg data show.  The ratio soared to 194 percent by December 2008 as
investors fled to  government securities  following Lehman
Brothers Holdings’ bankruptcy filing three months earlier. It
didn’t fall below 100 percent again until the following May. The
current stretch of five straight weeks of readings at 100
percent or above is the longest since early 2009.  This Week’s Slide  As debt offerings picked up this week, 10-year tax-exempt
yields increased about 34 basis points, the biggest four-day
jump in at least two years, to 2.45 percent, according to a
Bloomberg Valuation index data.  Local-government securities also fell along with
Treasuries.  Government bonds  dropped for a third day as
speculation European leaders are stepping up efforts to resolve
their debt crisis reduced demand for the safest assets.  The increase in municipal rates offers more yield and makes
tax-exempt securities cheap compared with Treasuries, said
Michael Pietronico, who manages $590 million as chief executive
officer at Miller Tabak Asset Management in  New York . He bought
municipal bonds on Oct. 5 and Oct. 6, he said in a telephone
interview.  “This opens an opportunity for investors to jump in at
excellent relative-value levels,” he said.  Spur to Refunding  Less than three weeks ago, the 10-year tax-exempt yield had
dropped below 2 percent, the lowest since at least January 2009,
when the BVAL index begins. Signs the economic rebound is
flagging combined with concern about the European debt crisis
helped drive 10-year Treasury yields to as low as 1.67 percent
last month, the lowest level since at least January 1962.  Falling rates have spurred states and localities to
refinance and decrease their interest payments. Municipalities
refunded $36 billion from July through September, the most in a
third-quarter since 2008, Bloomberg data show.  The municipal to Treasury ratio will fall to the 90 percent
range or lower once the pace of municipal sales slows, Alan Schankel, director of fixed-income research for Janney, said in
a telephone interview.  “If supply moderated we’d go lower,” he said. I don’t see
it dropping below 100 percent in the coming weeks.’’  States and local governments are set to sell $10.6 billion
of debt in the next 30 days, the smallest scheduled amount in
close to two weeks, according to Bloomberg data.  Pollack said he plans to unwind his trade, selling the
municipal debt he bought this week, once tax-free yields drop
below Treasury rates. That may happen by January when issuance
tends to lessen, Pollack said.  “By the beginning of 2012, we’ll be able to turn this
trade around and make some money,” he said.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt:  NEW YORK LIBERTY DEVELOPMENT CORP. plans to sell $2.9
billion of refunding bonds, according to preliminary offering
statements issued yesterday. The transaction includes $2.59
billion for refunding the debt on World Trade Center towers 2,
3, and 4 and a reoffering of $338 million of revenue bonds for
construction of tower 3. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will lead the
sale. (Added Oct. 7)  NEW YORK CITY TRANSITIONAL FINANCE AUTHORITY, which
finances capital projects for the most-populous U.S. city, plans
to sell $750 million of subordinate revenue debt next week to
convert variable-rate bonds into fixed-rate securities and
refund debt. The authority’s subordinate debt is rated AAA, the
highest grade by  Standard & Poor’s . Bank of America Merrill
Lynch is senior manager of the sale. (Added Oct. 6)  CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION, which finances school
construction for the third-largest public-education system in
the U.S., plans to sell as soon as Oct. 12 about $398 million of
general-obligation bonds secured with dedicated revenue.
Proceeds will renovate school buildings and finance expansion.
Jefferies & Co. will lead a syndicate of banks on the deal.
(Updated Oct. 6)  HUDSON YARDS INFRASTRUCTURE CORP., which finances
development of a district west of Midtown Manhattan, plans to
sell $1 billion of bonds as soon as next week to help pay for
extending the No. 7 subway line to the neighborhood. The sale is
rated A2, Moody’s Investors Service’s sixth-highest grade.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. will lead a group of banks on the
transaction. (Added Oct. 7)  COLORADO HEALTH FACILITIES AUTHORITY, which issues debt on
behalf of hospitals in the state, will sell as soon as next week
$309 million of revenue bonds. The proceeds will finance capital
projects for Catholic Health Initiatives, part of the CHI Credit
Group, a multistate health-care provider. The sale is rated AA,
S&P’s third-highest grade. JPMorgan will underwrite the deal.
(Added Oct. 7)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  