-- 
Motorola, Disney, Microsoft: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-10-10T19:47:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/disney-microsoft-subway-sandwiches-intellectual-property.html
Intellectual Ventures  LLC, the
company founded by former Microsoft Corp. chief technology
officer Nathan Myhrvold, sued Motorola Mobility Inc. for patent
infringement.  The suit, filed yesterday in federal court in  Delaware ,
accused the Libertyville, Illinois-based company of infringing
six patents related to portable computing and file transfer.  Myhrvold has frequently characterized Bellevue, Washington-
based Intellectual Ventures as an “invention company,” and
numerous patent applications have been filed as a result of so-
called invention sessions in which Myhrvold and others from
Intellectual Ventures gather to discuss solutions to
technological problems.  According to the complaint, Intellectual Ventures owns more
than 35,000 intellectual property assets, with 3,000 of those
patents and patent applications coming from the company’s own
invention efforts.  None of the patents at issue in the case against Motorola
come from such sessions. According to the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office’s  database of patent assignments , all six were
acquired by Intellectual Ventures, some as recently as Sept. 6.  Some of the patents have changed hands numerous times,
including one, issued in 2008 and acquired by Intellectual
Ventures in July.  Patent 7,810,144, issued in October 2010, was acquired July
18 from H. Space Data Services of Wilmington, Delaware.  Patent 6,412,953, issued in July 2002, was acquired in
January 2010 from  Taiwan ’s Industrial Technology Research
Institute.  Patent 7,409,450, has changed hands 12 times since it was
issued in August 2008, with Intellectual Ventures acquiring it
July 28 from Van Drebbel Mariner LLC of Los Altos,  California .  Patent 7,120,462, issued in October 2006, changed hands six
times and was acquired by Intellectual Ventures Sept. 6 from
Balustare Processing NY LLC of Dover, Delaware.  Patent 6,557,054 was issued in April 2003, and acquired by
Intellectual Ventures Sept. 6 from Twintech E.U. LLC of
Wilmington.  Patent 6,658,464, issued in December 2003, was also
acquired Sept. 6 from Twintech.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  said in August that it would acquire Motorola
Mobility for $12.5 billion, in the process picking up more than
17,000 patents that could be used to defend its Android
software.  In the suit against Motorola Motility, Intellectual
Ventures claims it approached Motorola about taking a license
beginning in January. The two companies couldn’t come to terms,
Intellectual Ventures said in its court papers.  The company claims that at least 18 Motorola Mobility
products infringe the patents. It asked the court for orders
barring future infringement, and for awards of money damages,
litigation costs and attorney fees.  This is the sixth patent infringement case Intellectual
Ventures has filed since 2010, according to Bloomberg data. All
were filed in federal court in Delaware.  Motorola Mobility doesn’t comment on pending litigation, a
company representative said in an e-mail.  The case is Intellectual Ventures LLC v. Motorola Mobility
Inc., 1:11-cv-00908-UNA, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  Bally Loses Appeal of IGT Game Machines Patent Lawsuit  Bally Technologies Inc. (BYI)  lost its appeal of a lower-court
finding that it infringed two patents belonging to  International
Game Technology (IGT)  of Reno,  Nevada .  IGT claimed that Bally’s Power Rewards and Power Winners
promotions infringed patents RE38,812 and RE37,885. The patents
cover a network gaming system.  The trial court agreed, finding Bally infringed elements of
each patent, and a Washington-based appeals court affirmed that
finding in a ruling yesterday.  IGT’s case was argued by  Deanne E. Maynard  of San
Francisco’s Morrison & Foerster LLP. Bally’s argument was made
by  Edward J. Defranco  of Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP
of  Los Angeles .  The lower-court case is IGT v. Bally Gaming International
Inc., 1:06-cv-00282-SLR, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington). The appeals court case is IGT v. Bally
Gaming International Inc., 2010 1364, 1365,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Federal Circuit.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Disney Files Application for ‘Castle of Illusion’ Trademark  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , whose Mickey Mouse character has been
around for 83 years, filed an application to register “Castle
of Illusion” as a trademark, according to the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  The application, filed Sept. 27, specifies that the mark
would be used for video-game cartridges, discs and software; and
computer-game discs and software.  A previous application was filed in March 1991 and
abandoned in September 1991 in advance of the mark’s issuance.
That application was filed by Sega of America Inc., which in
1990 released a “Castle of Illusion” game starring Mickey
Mouse.  According to SiliconEra.com, which follows developments in
video games, Sega made other related games and then lost the
license.  The trademark application was filed on Disney’s behalf by
Steven A. Plotkin, in-house counsel for the Burbank, California-
based entertainment company, according to the patent office
database.  Microsoft Wins German Trademark Case Over Used Software CDs  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  won a ruling in  Germany ’s top civil court
barring a company from using certificate labels linked to
Microsoft’s trademarks when selling compact discs with used
software, the Federal Court of Justice said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Doctor’s Associates Claims Subway Marks Infringed in  Singapore   Doctor’s Associates Inc., the owner of the Subway chain of
sandwich shops, sued a Singapore company for trademark
infringement, the  Straits Times   reported .  The lawsuit, which was heard in Singapore’s High Court
beginning Oct. 4, accused Subway Niche of infringement,
according to the  Straits Times .  Subway, which now operates 34,891 stores in 98 countries,
sued after Subway Niche got into the sandwich business, the
newspaper reported.  The U.S. company argued the public is confused by the name
similarity, according to the Straits Times.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Don’t ‘Stand By Me,’ Sony Tells Ortega on Song Use in Nicaragua  Sony Music told Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega to stop
using the rhythm-and-blues classic “Stand By Me” in a campaign
advertisement that asks voters to elect the former guerrilla
leader to a third term.  The request to pull the ad from television and radio under
the threat of legal action was made in a letter from Sony/ATV
Music Publishing to Ortega’s party, the Sandinista National
Liberation Front, on Aug. 22.  Use of the song, recorded in 1960 by Ben E. King,
constitutes a “serious infringement” of Sony’s copyright, the
Santa Monica, California-based company said in the cease and
desist order, a copy of which was published Oct. 5 by Managua-
based newspaper La Prensa.  “We don’t allow our songs to be used by political
campaigns,” Jimmy Asci, a spokesman for Sony/ATV in  New York ,
said in a phone interview.  Beginning in July, a Spanish-language version of the famous
song, re-titled “Nicaragua Will Triumph,” began airing on TV
with footage of Ortega from 1979, when he led the Sandinista
rebels that toppled the U.S.-backed dictatorship of Anastasio
Somoza.  The five-minute video opens with black-and-white images of
early 20th-century revolutionary Augusto Sandino, the
ideological father of Ortega’s movement, set to the lyrics
“when the sun went away.” It then flashes forward to 2007 and
an image of Ortega receiving the presidential sash to the chorus
“when the sun came back.”  “Stand By Me” was listed fourth in the “Top 100 Songs of
the Century” on U.S. radio and television published in 1999 by
Nashville, Tennessee-based Broadcast Music Inc. It was also
featured in director Rob Reiner’s  1986 movie by the same name ,
based on Stephen King’s novella “The Body.”  The order to pull the ad was addressed to Sandinista
legislator Edwin Castro, the head of Ortega’s party in the
National Assembly. Castro didn’t respond to calls or an e-mail
from Bloomberg seeking comment.  Ortega is favored in polls to win re-election Nov. 6 after
the pro-government majority in the  Supreme Court  overrode a
boycott by opposition justices and lifted a constitutional ban
on incumbent presidents seeking consecutive re-election or a
third term.  HADOPI Tells TorrentFreak More than 650,000 Received Warnings  France ’s anti-piracy legislation, which went into effect in
January 2010, has resulted in more than 650,000 “first-strike”
warnings Internet users, the TorrentFreak website  reported .  According to the site, which focuses on copyright
enforcement, 60 customers of French Internet service providers
have received so-called third-strike notices which, with
judicial agreement, could cost each a 1,500-euro ($2,015) fine
and loss of Internet connectivity for one month.  Marie-Francoise Marais, who heads the government copyright
enforcement agency HADOPI, told TorrentFreak that 44,000 holders
of French Internet accounts have received second-strike notices.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  