-- 
Disney’s Iger Named Chairman, Will Step Down as CEO in 2015

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-10-07T20:23:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/disney-s-iger-to-cede-ceo-role-in-2015.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  said Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Iger  will take on the added role of chairman next
year at the theme-park and entertainment company, part of a plan
to appoint a new CEO in 2015.  Iger, 60, will succeed John E. Pepper at the annual meeting
in March, Burbank, California-based Disney said today in a
statement. Pepper, 73, a former chairman and CEO of  Procter &
Gamble Co ., has led the board since 2007.  Disney didn’t name a successor for Iger, who oversaw the
acquisitions of Pixar and Marvel in the past five years and will
become executive chairman in 2015. The company will combine the
top roles for the first time since 2004, when CEO  Michael Eisner 
was stripped of the chairmanship after a failed proxy fight
waged by Roy Disney, Walt’s nephew. The company wanted to keep
Iger and have a smooth transition, Pepper said.  “I’m totally surprised that they would do this again,”
said  Charles Elson , director of the University of  Delaware ’s
John L. Weinberg Center for  Corporate Governance . “Why stick
your head in a blender? An executive just shouldn’t be in charge
of the board that monitors him.”  Two of Disney’s top executives, Tom Staggs and Jay Rasulo,
swapped roles at the end of 2009, with Chief Financial Officer
Staggs assuming the job of parks chief and Rasulo becoming CFO,
in a move designed to bolster the experience of both men.  Race to the Top?  Iger “set up a race between the two by having them switch
jobs that ought to help him make that decision,” said  David Joyce , a Miller Tabak & Co. analyst in  New York  who recommends
buying Disney shares. “They are both 20-year veterans at the
company and have strong operational backgrounds.”  Disney’s largest business is media networks, led by  Anne Sweeney  and George Bodenheimer, co-chairmen. The division, which
includes ESPN, ABC and the Disney Channel, had $17.2 billion in
fiscal 2010 sales and contributed two-thirds of Disney’s $7.6
billion in operating income.  Disney fell 33 cents to $31.70 at the close in New York and
has declined 15 percent this year.  The company also extended Iger’s contract through 2016 and
is increasing his salary to $2.5 million annually from $2
million now. The new agreement includes a $12 million annual
cash bonus target, as well as options and restricted stock
valued at $15.5 million, Disney said. His current agreement ends
in 2013.  ‘Strong Performer’  “Iger has made some forward thinking moves that have made
the company a strong performer,” Joyce said in an interview.
“He was the first to embrace digital technology and positioned
the company well with the Pixar and Marvel acquisitions.”  The bonus is based on performance yardsticks that include
operating income, return on capital, after-tax free cash flow
and earnings per share, the company said. The stock awards will
be based on total shareholder return and earnings per share,
relative to the  S&P 500 .  In the announcement, Disney said total shareholder return
under Iger is five times higher than the  S&P 500 index  since he
took over as CEO.  “The board is delighted that the company has been able to
secure the longer-term continuation of Bob’s unique blend of
experience and leadership skills,” Pepper said. Iger “will
continue to serve the long-term interests of shareholders.”  As part of the transition, Disney will appoint an
independent lead director when Iger becomes chairman, according
to the statement.  Iger was named president of Disney in 2000 and succeeded
Eisner as CEO in October 2005. He led the $8.06 billion purchase
of the Pixar animation studio in 2006 and the $4.2 billion
acquisition of Marvel Entertainment in 2010. He previously
headed Disney’s ABC television unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  