-- 
Major League Baseball Drops Attempt to Remove Dodgers’ Bankruptcy Lawyers

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-10-11T13:31:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/dodgers-can-t-use-other-baseball-tv-deals-to-defend-mccourt-judge-rules.html
The Los Angeles Dodgers can keep
using the two law firms that filed the team’s bankruptcy
petition,  Major League Baseball  said, dropping an effort to have
the attorneys fired.  Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  withdrew the motion to
disqualify Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP and Young Conaway Stargatt &
Taylor LLP after U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in
Wilmington, Delaware, said last week that he didn’t “think very
highly” of the effort.  In a court filing last night, Major League Baseball said it
decided to drop the attempt to fire the attorneys at the
suggestion of a mediator who has been trying to negotiate a
settlement between  Frank McCourt , the team’s owner, and Selig.  Major League Baseball had said the law firms should be
removed because they were representing McCourt’s interests and
not those of the Dodgers. The team accused Major League Baseball
of attacking the law firms to distract the attorneys as they
prepared to defend McCourt’s plans to sell television rights to
Dodger games.  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy in June after Selig
refused to approve a new television contract McCourt had
negotiated with the current broadcaster,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox
Sports.  Gross this month will hold a hearing to decide whether to
grant Selig’s request to force McCourt to sell the team or to
let McCourt try again to sell TV broadcast rights. Gross has
said he expects both Selig and McCourt to testify at the
hearing, scheduled to start Oct. 31.  The bankruptcy case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-
12010,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  