-- 
Dollar Falls as Payrolls Gain Beyond Forecast, Spur Demand for Risk Assets

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-10-07T15:28:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/dollar-falls-as-payrolls-gain-beyond-forecast-spur-demand-for-risk-assets.html
The dollar fell versus a majority of
its most-traded counterparts after a report showed U.S.
employers added more jobs than forecast in September, increasing
demand for currencies of countries with higher-yielding assets.  Mexico ’s peso rallied, paring its drop since July to 12
percent, and the Australian dollar and Brazilian real also
advanced. The euro rose versus the dollar and was headed for a
its first weekly gain in three after the European Central Bank
yesterday said it will support the region’s banks.  “It makes sense to sell the dollar against the clear risk-
on crosses on the back of this,” said  Jens Nordvig , a managing
director of currency research in New York at Nomura Holdings
Inc. “It’s a pretty solid report overall, especially relative
to the very bearish environment we’re in. If we have any
stability in the U.S., we can have stability in emerging
markets.”  The dollar dropped 0.5 percent to $1.3499 per euro at 11:27
a.m. in  New York , from $1.3437 yesterday, bringing the 17-nation
currency’s gain this week to 0.7 percent. The U.S. currency was
little changed at 76.74 yen, from 76.72, and the euro advanced
0.5 percent to 103.60 yen.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners including the euro and yen, declined 0.6 percent
to 78.193. It touched an eight-month high of 79.838 on Oct. 4.  Employment Gains  U.S. payrolls climbed by 103,000 workers after a revised
57,000 increase the prior month that was more than originally
estimated, Labor Department data showed today in Washington. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a rise of
60,000. The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent.  Mexico’s peso gained 0.9 percent, rising for a fourth day,
to 13.303 per dollar, from 13.4214. It has gained 4.5 percent so
far this week, after reaching 14.1395 Sept. 23, the weakest
since April 2009. The U.S. is Mexico’s largest trading partner.  Australia’s dollar rose 0.9 percent to 98.30 U.S. cents and
 Brazil ’s real rallied 0.6 percent to 1.7701 per dollar.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.5 percent after
gaining as much as 0.6 percent. TheThomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB
Index of raw materials was little changed after advancing as
much as 0.7 percent.  “This is just a pullback for the U.S dollar,” said Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist for Gain Capital Group LLC
in New York. “Any kind of weakness in the dollar is an
opportunity to get long dollar because there are still concerns
over global growth and Greece and the euro zone crisis.”  Fed Stance  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 4 that
policy makers stand ready to take additional steps to bolster
the “sluggish” economic recovery. Bernanke’s commitment to
revive the  U.S. economy  comes after almost three-years of near-
zero  interest rates  and $2.3 trillion of mortgage and
government-debt purchases by the central bank since 2008 failed
to boost growth.  Faster U.S. job growth is a sign employers remain confident
the U.S. will avoid a renewed slump, even as unemployment is
forecast to remain above 8 percent through 2013. The risk that
the world’s largest economy may fall back into a recession has
prompted the Fed and President  Barack Obama  to announce further
measures to sustain the expansion.  “This report drives a wedge between what’s happening in
Europe and what’s happening in the U.S.,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic strategist at  Miller Tabak  in New
York. “You’re seeing  job creation  in the U.S. rather than
businesses sitting and watching the crisis unfold in  Europe .”  ECB Moves  The ECB said yesterday it will reintroduce yearlong loans
and resume purchases of covered bonds to encourage lending and
the Bank of England reactivated its bond-purchase program to
help revive the U.K.’s faltering economy.  While the ECB took steps to bolster the region’s lenders,
the European Commission is pushing for a coordinated capital
injection into banks. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said
policy makers “shouldn’t hesitate” if it turns out financial
institutions are undercapitalized. Merkel will meet with French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in Berlin on Oct. 9 for their eighth
one-on-one summit in 20 months.  The ECB’s action “is shoring up European growth prospects,
and it’s shoring up European banks,” said  Adam Carr , a senior
economist in Sydney at ICAP  Australia  Ltd., a unit of the
world’s largest interdealer broker. “That is very positive
euro, and I would expect to continue to see the euro being bid
as a result.”  The euro has declined 4 percent during the past 12 months
among the 10 developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen appreciated 7.7
percent in the same period and the dollar was off 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  