-- 
Draghi Urges Structural Overhaul to End Italy’s ‘Stagnation’

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-10-07T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/draghi-urges-structural-overhaul-to-end-italy-s-stagnation-.html
Bank of  Italy  Governor  Mario Draghi 
called for a structural overhaul to end the nation’s economic
“stagnation” and blamed its chronically weak growth partly on
the lack of opportunities afforded young people.  “It’s an absolute priority of economic policy today in our
country to exit the stagnation by restarting development through
structural measures,” Draghi, who will become president of the
European Central Bank on Nov. 1, said in a speech at an event
today in Sarteano, Italy. Italy must “remove a number of
constraints and restrictions to competition and economic
activity” and “set up a more benign institutional framework”
for businesses.  Italy’s credit rating was cut three levels to A2 by Moody’s
Investors Service on Oct. 4 following a one-step downgrade by
 Standard & Poor’s  last month, both of which cited weak growth
prospects as hindering efforts to cut  Europe ’s second-biggest
debt burden. The nation’s economic expansion has lagged behind
the euro-region average every year for more than a decade, and
the  International Monetary Fund  last month cut its forecasts for
Italian growth.  The weak expansion “in the last few years is also the
reflection of the ever-more limited opportunities for the young
generation to contribute to the economic and social development
through their innovative capacity, their knowledge, their
enthusiasm,” Draghi said.  Italian joblessness among those between ages 15 and 24 rose
to 27.6 percent in August, from 27.5 percent in the previous
month. The overall  unemployment rate  was 7.9 percent in August,
national statistics institute Istat said on Sept. 30.  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  last month pushed through
54 billion euros ($73 billion) in austerity cuts in a bid to
stem surging borrowing costs amid contagion from Europe’s debt
crisis. The IMF on Sept. 20 lowered its growth forecast for
Italy and said the government will also miss its target of
balancing the budget by 2013. The economy will expand 0.6
percent this year and 0.3 percent next, the IMF forecast.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 