-- 
Durbin Says Republicans to Pay Price on Job Plan (Transcript)

-- B y  
-- 
2011-10-07T18:06:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/durbin-says-republicans-to-pay-price-on-job-plan-transcript-.html
Senator  Dick Durbin , the
chamber’s second-ranking Democrat, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend, that Republicans will pay a price if
they don’t support tax breaks they previously embraced that
now are in President Barack Obama’s $447 billion jobs plan.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with the assistant majority
leader, Senator Dick Durbin, who joins us in our studio.  Senator, thank you for being with us.  DICK DURBIN: Good to be here.  HUNT: Jobs report out, not great, better than
expected, but still 9.1 percent. At the same time, it looks
like the president’s jobs bill can’t even get through the
Senate.  DURBIN: Well, I can say this. We’re glad we didn’t
lose ground on the unemployment front, but clearly we have
to do more. And that’s what the president’s been saying for
weeks. Standing by the sidelines and saying, “Let it work
itself out,” is not acceptable.  Now, as far as the Senate and the Democrats in the
Senate, we will provide an overwhelming number of votes in
support of the president’s jobs plan. We may come at it
differently. We talked about the pay-fors this week. But
the votes will be there if we can put together a bipartisan
coalition. We still need 60 votes in the Senate.  HUNT: And the pay-for will be almost exclusively the
billion - the so-called millionaire’s tax?  DURBIN: Yes, that’s right, a surcharge on those who
make more than a million dollars in income of about 5
percent over the million dollars.  HUNT: We’ll get back to jobs in a minute, but does
that mean the Democrats have now started to define middle
class as a millionaire plus, that you’ve given up on the
Bush tax cuts going to people over $250,000?  DURBIN: Not personally. But what we tried to do is to
stake out a position which we think is entirely defensible
across the political spectrum, and that is, the wealthiest
among us, those who are the most comfortable, should
sacrifice some, a small amount.  HUNT: Do you still think the Bush tax cuts for people
making over $250,000 will end at the end of next year?  DURBIN: They’re scheduled to.  HUNT: And what do you think will happen?  DURBIN: Well, I’ve gone through this calculation to
try to assume that they end, assume they don’t end, and the
impact it’s going to have on our deficit. If we don’t bring
an end to these Bush tax cuts, over $250,000, the deficit
picture gets gloomier and gloomier for the next 10 years.  HUNT: But that’s in the president’s control, because
they end unless he agrees to extend them.  DURBIN: And I think the president’s made it clear
that-  HUNT: They will not be extended?  DURBIN: They won’t be extended.  HUNT: Let’s go back to jobs. What part - all right.
You’re not going to get the whole thing through. There’s
got to be some compromises. What parts do you think are
most likely to pass the Congress in the next month?  DURBIN: Well, you look at the proposals on the
positive side as opposed to the pay-for side. There’s
hardly a one of them the Republicans have not voted for and
endorsed -  payroll tax  for working families,  tax cut , you
know, that’s something that the Republicans - that’s their
mantra. And then you take a look at cuts for businesses,
small businesses to encourage them to hire people -  HUNT: So you think they’ll make it?  DURBIN: I think they will. And I don’t know if they’ll
hold their ground and say, no, no, you can’t save the jobs
of teachers and firefighters and policemen -  HUNT: That may be tougher.  DURBIN: It could be, I mean, because they, frankly,
don’t have a great deal of sympathy, those - many of them
are union members. But the bottom line is, most families
back home don’t want to see, in  Illinois , 14,000 teachers
lose their jobs.  HUNT: Do you still suspect, Senator Durbin, there will
be a jobs bill sent to President Obama before Congress goes
out this year?  DURBIN: I hope there will be. And I’ll tell you, if
the Republicans take the current position and hold it, that
they’ll do nothing, I think they’ll pay a price for it.  HUNT: Let’s talk about a couple other issues before
the Senate, the China - the penalties on China is going to
pass, probably next Tuesday. The president’s not going to
sign that. Aren’t you just going through the motions?  DURBIN: We’re going through an important motion,
something we should have done a long time ago. This  China 
currency situation has cost us a dramatic number of jobs.
They have played it to a fare-thee-well, and it’s time for
us to take a stand. And we are, on a bipartisan basis, in
the Senate. I hope we can persuade the House. Speaker
Boehner seems to be skeptical of the need for this, that if
we are going to create manufacturing jobs in America, and
to protect those jobs against this incursion from Chinese
currency valuation, we’ve got to do something. Standing by
the sidelines has cost us tens of thousands of good-paying
jobs right here in America.  HUNT: Speaker Boehner is skeptical. Someone else who’s
skeptical is named Barack Obama.  DURBIN: It’s true.  HUNT: The president’s not going to sign this.  DURBIN: Most presidents don’t want to be told by
Congress this is the agenda we want you to follow.  HUNT: So you’re making a statement, but you’re
probably not going to make law?  DURBIN: I wouldn’t give up on it. I really honestly
believe the numbers we’re putting up on the board in the
Senate indicate strong bipartisan support. Certainly, when
 Ben Bernanke  comes out and says, I agree with you, the
China currency crisis isn’t helping the American economy,
you know, that to me says that we’re moving in the right
direction.  HUNT: The president has nominated Mr. Cordray of  Ohio 
for the consumer protection job. Republicans have said no
to begin with. Do you think that nomination will be
stalled? Or do you think he could be confirmed? Do you
think he could be put in place in a recess appointment?  DURBIN: Look at the executive calendar in the Senate.
It is loaded, 30 - almost 30 judges, federal nominees, I
should say, for judgeships, unanimous votes in the Senate
Judiciary Committee sitting there for month after weary
month. Republicans won’t let us call them. And there’s no
controversy associated with them.  So you take this issue, as to whether or not the
consumers of America will have one agency trying to help
them when it comes to consumer financial protection, I can
understand. The Republicans hate it. They wish we hadn’t
passed it. They want to stop it from coming into being.  When someone like Holly Petraeus, General Petraeus’
wife, sits down and talks about what these predatory
lenders are doing to our men and women in uniform, it puts
in sharp focus the responsibility of this agency. I think
the Republicans ought to help us create this agency and
ought to work with us so that consumers have at least the
information they need to make an intelligent decision in
this tough market.  HUNT: And do you think Mr. Cordray will be in that job
this year?  DURBIN: I can’t say, if it depends on the Senate, that
that will happen. But I’ll do everything I can to make it
happen.  HUNT: Let me go back to fiscal matters. Very few
people have been as involved as you in this whole deficit
issue. You’ve come at it from a vantage point of a lifelong
liberal. You also were on Simpson-Bowles and you have gone
along with - because you said it’s important to do some
really big deficit reduction.  The politics don’t look very good. Supercommittee
doesn’t look like it’s going to think big, that you
couldn’t get any kind of consensus. Is that too
pessimistic?  DURBIN: It may be, and I hope it is an unrealistic or
an inaccurate appraisal. I want them to succeed. They
should succeed. They’re good people.  HUNT: Would you bet on it?  DURBIN: Well, I’d say they’ve got a tough assignment,
just a few weeks to come up with a bipartisan agreement.
But I believe - what I’m hoping is that people from my side
of the political spectrum will believe that you don’t have
to be wasteful to be liberal. You can really say that we
want to insist that we cut back on wasteful expenditures.
And there are so many of them at the government level.  And when it comes to these entitlement programs, we
want some honesty. Sure, Social Security is strong for 25
years. What can we do to guarantee that’s 75 years?
Medicare is critically important to America. What can we do
to make sure that we bring in quality without sacrificing,
you know, the cost element that we continue to face?  HUNT: I don’t want to turn you into a betting man, but
 Barack Obama  looks like he faces pretty tough odds, and he
talks about  Harry Truman , but this isn’t 1948, he’s not
Harry Truman. Is the president going to have a tough time
with re-election?  DURBIN: Of course. You look at the economy and you say
it’s an uphill battle. He said as much last week. But this
president has decided to step up and take his case to the
American people. Harry Truman got on a train to do that.
Barack Obama is taking his flights around America to meet
with people and talk about these issues-  HUNT: You think he can replicate that?  DURBIN: I think he can. I think the American people
clearly want to see a direction for this country that is
going to move our economy forward. If the choice is
returning to the old Republican ways of President Bush that
drove us into deeper deficits and higher unemployment, that
isn’t good news, and it’s not a new idea.  HUNT: Senator, pretend for a moment that you’ve been
downgraded and you were a journalist now. Bloomberg and
Washington Post are having a debate with the Republican
presidential candidates just about the economy next
Tuesday. What would you ask?  DURBIN: I’d ask them a basic question this way. I
listen to all of you describe what you think is the best
way to move this economy forward, but it sounds like a
movie we’ve already seen. You’re suggesting that we don’t
want any - we want tax cuts for the wealthiest, we don’t
want any new tax burden on them, and we basically want to
say government should get out of the way. Didn’t we try
that under the  Bush administration ? Didn’t it take a
surplus under Clinton and double the national debt, drive
our economy into recession, and create 750,000 people
losing jobs the month that Barack Obama was sworn into
office? Why should we repeat this movie when we already
know the sad ending?  HUNT: Senator Durbin, I’ll let you get back to your
day job. Thank you very much for being with us.  DURBIN: Thanks, Al.  HUNT: And when we come back, the president goes on the
offensive about his jobs bill. Bloomberg reporters are
next.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY
CONTAIN MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS
TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED “AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND. BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO
THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL,
NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-
PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN THIS
TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN
CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION
EXPRESSED IN Brzezinski Says Peace Impasse Menaces  Israel ,
U.S. (Transcript) THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A
SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR SALE OF SECURITIES OR
COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE TRANSCRIPT DOES
NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG LP.  #<882456.1204164.2.1.95.14779.25>#
 