-- 
Galleon’s Rajaratnam Awaits Reckoning as Another Underling Heads to Prison

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-10-08T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/emanuel-goffer-is-sentenced-to-three-years-in-galleon-insider-trading-case.html
Emanuel Goffer was sentenced to three 
years in prison for his role in the largest hedge-fund insider 
trading ring in U.S. history, less than a week before Galleon 
Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , mastermind of the central 
scheme, is to learn his fate in the same courthouse.  Goffer, 32, who was sentenced by U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  at a hearing in  Manhattan  yesterday, received a fraction
of the maximum 24 1/2 years prosecutors are seeking for Rajaratnam 
at his Oct. 13 sentencing.  Prosecutors said Goffer and his brother bribed two lawyers
at Boston-based Ropes & Gray LLP to give them secret information
about transactions involving 3Com Corp., Axcan Pharma Inc.,
Kronos Inc. and Hilton Hotels Corp.  “This was a deliberate scheme to procure inside
information, privileged information, from a  law firm  by bribing
lawyers to corrupt them,” Sullivan told Goffer before passing
sentence. Sullivan also sentenced Goffer to three years of
supervised release after the prison term and ordered him to
forfeit $761,000 made from the scheme.  Last month, Goffer’s brother, former Galleon trader  Zvi Goffer , was given a 10-year sentence for insider-trading crimes.
The two Goffers were convicted, along with former trader Michael Kimelman, in June. Sullivan said yesterday that Emanuel Goffer
deserved less prison time than his brother, “the most culpable
person” in that ring.  Incremental Capital  Emanuel Goffer, who co-founded Incremental Capital LLC in
New York with his brother and Kimelman, was responsible for
creating instant messages and transactions intended to provide
cover for illegal trades, the U.S. said. He used an untraceable
prepaid mobile phone to pass tips to his brother and helped pay
bribes to the two lawyers, prosecutors said.  Goffer and Kimelman were both convicted of one count of
conspiracy and two counts of  securities fraud . Kimelman’s
sentencing is scheduled for Oct. 12.  Rajaratnam, 54, was convicted by a jury in May of 14 counts
of securities fraud and conspiracy. He was accused of using
illegal tips to trade in stocks of companies including  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp ., Google Inc., ATI Technologies
Inc. and Clearwire Corp. Prosecutors said he made $72 million
from his crimes.  At yesterday’s hearing, Michael Ross, Goffer’s lawyer,
asked for a “tempered sentence” shorter than the guideline
range, which Sullivan put at 41 to 51 months. In court papers,
Goffer asked for leniency, saying he plays a critical role in
raising a 3-year-old son with developmental problems.  At the defendant’s request, Sullivan said he would
recommend sending Goffer to the federal prison in Otisville, New
York, along with his brother. The judge gave Goffer 60 days to
report to prison.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 