-- 
Emerging Funds Post 10th Week of Outflows

-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-10-07T01:53:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/emerging-funds-post-10th-week-of-outflows.html
Emerging-market equity funds reported
the 10th week of outflows and the most withdrawals since August
amid recession and European debt concerns, Citigroup Inc. said.  Investors pulled a net $3.3 billion in the week ended Oct.
5, compared with $2.6 billion the previous week, Citigroup
analysts led by  Markus Rosgen  wrote in a report, citing figures
from EPFR Global. That’s the highest outflow since the week to
Aug. 9, when the net withdrawals were $7.7 billion, according to
the brokerage.  Italy’s credit rating was cut three levels this week by
Moody’s Investors Service to A2 from Aa2, while Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. lowered its global growth forecast for this year and
next, predicting recessions in Germany and France as the
European economy stalls and the risk of a contraction in the
U.S. grows. A Chinese purchasing managers’ index, released by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics last week, showed a third
month of contraction.  “Double-dip fears, euro implosion, and now the concerns
have moved to  China ,” Kelly Kwok, one of the analysts in the
Citigroup report, wrote in an e-mail. “All these hurt
sentiment.”  The MSCI’s MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 1.5 percent to
877.41 at 9:49 a.m. in Singapore, paring this week’s drop to 0.3
percent. The measure has dropped 24 percent this year as the
 U.S. economy  faltered, the European sovereign-debt crisis
spread, and central banks from  Brazil  to China raised  interest
rates  to curb inflation.  Year-End Rally  Thailand country funds saw the largest redemptions,
according to the Citigroup report. Companies in the nation’s SET
Index are trading at 10.3 times estimated earnings, lower than
the four-year average multiple of 11.29 times, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. MSCI’s emerging-markets index slumped 23
percent last quarter, the most since the three months ended Dec.
31, 2008.  Developing countries’ equities should rally through the end
of the year on valuations, and post “big” gains over the next
year, Citigroup analysts including Geoffrey Dennis wrote in a
separate report dated yesterday.  The analysts raised their rating on  India  to “neutral”
and said they are staying “overweight” on Asia and
“underweight” on  Latin America  and CEEMEA, or Central Eastern
 Europe , Middle East & Africa. Russia was cut to “underweight.”  “After their fourth-worst quarter since 1990, emerging-
market equities now price in recession, but not a return to
2008-2009,” the analysts led by Dennis wrote. “Further
volatility is likely in the fourth quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  