-- 
Emerging Stocks Rise on Europe Debt Outlook, U.S. Job Data

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-10-07T22:13:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/emerging-stocks-gain-for-third-day-india-korea-shares-advance.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, driving
the benchmark index to its biggest three-day gain since May
2010, on speculation European leaders may ease pressures on the
banking system and as U.S. firms hired more workers.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 2.3 percent to
883.90 at the close of trading, taking its three-day advance to
6.3 percent and weekly increase to 0.4 percent. India’s Sensex
Index jumped 2.8 percent,  South Korea ’s Kospi Index gained 2.9
percent, and Chinese shares listed in  Hong Kong  rallied 3.1
percent today. Russia’s Micex Index advanced 2.5 percent.  Italy and  Spain  had their long-term issuer default ratings
cut by Fitch on concern they will struggle to improve their
finances as  Europe ’s debt crisis intensifies. U.S. employers
added 103,000 workers in September, more than the 60,000
predicted by the median forecast of 91 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  “One of the concerns for emerging markets has been a
return to recession in the U.S. and today’s news certainly goes
against that,” said Greg Lesko, who helps oversee $800 million
at Deltec Asset Management in  New York . “There are a lot of
challenges out there, and every piece of good news helps.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  will meet in Berlin on Oct. 9 over  Greece ’s debt
problems as the nation edges closer to default.  Outflows  Emerging-market equity funds reported the 10th week of
outflows amid concern the global economy is headed for a
recession and that Europe’s debt crisis will spread, Citigroup
Inc. said. Investors pulled a net $3.3 billion in the week ended
Oct. 5, the most since August, Citigroup analysts led by Markus Rosgen said in a report, citing figures from EPFR Global.  OAO Uralkali, the world’s largest potash producer, rose 6.7
percent in Moscow after its Chief Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner said prices for the soil nutrient would rise to
exceed $600 per metric ton next year on “strong” demand. OAO
Sberbank,  Russia ’s largest lender, climbed 3.6 percent.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the driller controlled
by billionaire  Eike Batista , added 0.9 percent in  Sao Paulo 
after crude rose and the company signed a contract with Shell
Western Supply and Trading Ltd. for its first two cargoes of oil
from the offshore Waimea field.  The Bovespa Index fell 2 percent, reversing earlier gains,
amid concern the euro-zone debt crisis will slow global growth
while fewer interest-rate cuts in  Brazil  may limit domestic
demand.  Oil Rises  Crude oil increased for a third day in New York, capping
the biggest weekly advance in seven months as larger-than-
forecast job growth in the U.S. helped ease concern that the
economy is slowing.  The BUX Index slid 2.5 percent in Budapest. OTP Bank Nyrt.,
 Hungary ’s biggest lender, dropped 3.5 percent.  Hungary’s stocks may be underperforming because of concern
that the government won’t be able to meet its budget targets and
may face a credit rating downgrade to below investment grade
this year, according to Zoltan Reczey, an analyst at Buda-Cash
Brokerhaz Zrt.  The Korean won appreciated by 1.1 percent versus the dollar
while the  Indian rupee  gained 0.4 percent. The Brazilian real
gained 0.5 percent and the Chilean peso rose 0.3 percent.  Indian stocks climbed after the Press Trust of  India 
reported the country may introduce incentives for exporters to
cushion them from a slowdown in Western markets and Citigroup
raised its rating on the nation to “neutral” based on a
decline in global commodity prices, lower share valuations and a
short-term peak in  interest rates .  Reliance  Reliance Industries Ltd., the Mumbai-based energy explorer
and refiner, jumped 4.5 percent. India’s financial markets were
closed for a holiday yesterday, when the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index jumped 3.3 percent.  Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. surged 8.8
percent in  Seoul , leading South Korean shipyards higher. The
shares gained on speculation concern over ship financing in
Europe will ease and valuations have turned attractive following
recent share-price declines, said Martin Song, an analyst at
Woori Investment & Securities Co.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies
listed in Hong Kong advanced 3.7 percent.  Chinese property shares extended gains from yesterday,
after Deutsche Bank AG said it sees “emerging” value for long-
term investment in developers.  Agile Property Holdings Ltd. (3383) 
jumped 14 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 9 basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 450, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net 
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  