-- 
Enbridge to Expand Clean Energy Investment as Incentives Wane

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   B r a d   O l s o n
-- 
2011-10-07T00:05:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/enbridge-to-expand-clean-energy-investment-as-incentives-wane.html
Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , known more for
pipelines than solar panels, will increase investments in
renewable energy, undeterred by wavering political support for
wind and solar power in  North America .  Enbridge, Canada’s largest pipeline operator, has a “huge
number of renewable opportunities” and plans to add wind farms
and other low-carbon technologies in  Quebec ,  California  and
 Colorado , said Chief Executive Officer Patrick Daniel in an
interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New York.  “We’re not done by any means” expanding the renewable-
energy business, Daniel said on Wednesday. “We will be a big
renewables company 50 or 60 years down the road.”  Enbridge, based in Calgary, invested $1.5 billion in clean
energy projects last year. Daniel declined to provide an
investment target for this year or next.  The renewable expansion comes amid uncertainty for low-
carbon power generation, which largely relies on government-
mandated quotas and prices. A new government in  Canada ’s largest
province and a possible end to stimulus programs for renewable
power in the U.S. may favor investments by large energy
companies like Enbridge with their strong balance sheets, said
Ethan Zindler, head of North American research at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  “The bigger companies will be in a better position if
capital dries up and they may even gobble up some smaller
companies,” said Zindler in an interview from Washington, D.C.  More Renewable Capacity  In the U.S., tax-based incentives for renewable energy
development, including the 1603 renewable grant program, are set
to expire this year. The U.S. awarded $8.5 billion worth of
funding to 18,798 projects as of Sept. 1, according to the
Treasury grants program.  Enbridge’s installed renewable energy capacity has grown to
more than 850 megawatts at the end of March, enough to power
290,000 Canadian homes, from 41 megawatts at the end of 2005.
The company owns wind farms, a solar power plant as well as
biomass and geothermal operations.  “It’s not as good a return as the crude-oil pipeline
business or maybe some other aspects of our business, but it
does clear the cost of capital,” said Daniel. “So we’re adding
 shareholder value  by investing in the projects.”  Long-Term Contracts  Enbridge spun off its two Ontario wind farms and solar
station to affiliate Enbridge Income Fund Holdings for $1.23
billion, the company said on Sept. 8. The assets are expected to
generate earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization of $111 million per year over a 10-year period,
Enbridge said at the time. Enbridge retains control of the
operations.  “They don’t make renewable investments unless they have
long-term contracts,” said Juan Plessis, an analyst at Canacord
Genuity in  Vancouver  who rates the shares “hold” and doesn’t
own any. “They’re not in business to lose money. I like the
fact though that they’re keeping it a small part of their
business.”  Enbridge shares have gained 18 percent this year,
outperforming the 38 percent decline for the MSCI North American
Energy Index, which includes Exxon Mobil Corp., Chevron Corp.
and Suncor Energy Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in  New York  at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  