-- 
Obama Fundraiser Pressed on Solyndra Aid at Energy Department, E-Mails Say

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-10-08T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/energy-official-with-solyndra-links-pressed-for-loan.html
A fundraiser for President  Barack Obama  who became an Energy Department official pressed
colleagues to act on Solyndra LLC’s application for a $535
million U.S. loan guarantee after he was barred from
participating in the decision, according to e-mails.  Steve Spinner, who advised the loan guarantee program, was
recused from discussions about aiding Solyndra, the California
maker of solar panels that filed for bankruptcy Sept. 6, two
years after getting the aid. Spinner’s wife worked at a law firm
that represented the company.  Spinner raised at least $500,000 for Obama’s 2008
presidential campaign, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics. E-mails obtained yesterday show Spinner was active in
discussions related to the loan guarantee, which is the subject
of a congressional investigation. The  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  is also investigating the company for possible
fraud.  Republicans seized on the e-mails, part of a new batch of
documents the White House sent to congressional investigators,
as further support for their contention that the decision to aid
Solyndra was politically tainted and economically unsound.  “The paper trail released by the White House portrays a
disturbingly close relationship between President Obama’s West
Wing inner circle, campaign donors and wealthy investors that
spawned the Solyndra mess,” House Energy and Commerce Chairman
 Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican, and Representative  Cliff Stearns , a Florida Republican and chairman of the investigations
panel, said in a statement.  ‘Getting Itchy’  In an Aug, 28, 2009, e-mail, Spinner wrote to another
Energy Department official that the White House and vice
president’s office are “breathing down my neck on this ... just
want to make sure we get their questions.” He added,  “They’re
getting itchy to get involved if needed. I don’t want that.”  In the e-mail, Spinner asked if officials in the Office of
Management and Budget, which was responsible for helping to
weigh the risks of the loan guarantee, had signed off on the
project. “How ---- hard is this?” Spinner wrote.  In another e-mail, to Aditya Kumar, an aide to White House
Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel , Spinner listed Solyndra’s major
investors and attached a biography of George Kaiser, an Oklahoma
billionaire and Obama fundraiser whose family foundation
invested in the solar panel company.  Republicans have cited Kaiser’s connection with Solyndra to
suggest political considerations influenced the award. The White
House and the foundation say Kaiser didn’t lobby for the
guarantee.  Spinner’s Departure  Spinner left the department at the end of September 2010,
the Energy Department said. Spinner, who is now a fellow at the
Center for American Progress, a Washington organization that
advises Democrats, didn’t respond to phone and e-mail requests
for comment.  Spinner, who has described himself as an investor in clean-
technology and Internet companies, tried to allay doubts about
helping Solyndra, the e-mails show.  Responding to an Aug. 19, 2009, e-mail from Kumar noting
concerns in the White House’s Energy and Climate Change office
about the Solyndra deal, Spinner responded, “It’s a great
announcement that will be well received.”  The e-mails show White House interest in promoting Solyndra
even after early indications the company was facing financial
difficulties.  Obama’s Interest  Kumar, Emanuel’s aide, wrote in an Aug. 13, 2009, e-mail
that Obama “definitely wants” to take part in an event
announcing final approval of the loan guarantee.  Vice President  Joe Biden  ended up participating by video
feed. Energy Secretary Steven Chu attended the groundbreaking on
Sept. 4, 2009 for the new plant to be paid for in part with the
U.S. loan.  The new documents don’t undermine the administration’s
position that the decision on the loan was merit-based, an
administration official who asked not be identified discussing
the materials sent to Congress, said yesterday. Spinner was
merely seeking an answer on the loan as the groundbreaking date
approached, the official said.  In a Sept. 29 news release, the Energy Department said
Spinner was barred from engaging in discussions affecting
specific loan applications in which his spouse’s law firm was
involved.  The firm, Wilson, Sonsini, Goodrick & Rosati, has said
Allison Spinner didn’t do work for Solyndra, according to the
department statement. Steve Spinner joined the department at the
end of April 2009 after it had given a conditional commitment
for the award, according to the statement. Solyndra won final
approval in September 2009.  Allowed to ‘Oversee’  Because Spinner’s wife didn’t participate in or benefit
from her  law firm ’s work for Solyndra, he “was authorized to
oversee and monitor the progress of applications, ensure that
the program met its deadlines and milestones, and coordinate
possible public announcements,”  Damien LaVera , an Energy
Department spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mail.  “He was not allowed to make decisions on the terms or
conditions of any particular loan guarantee or decide whether or
not a particular transaction was approved,” LaVera said.  The e-mails sent to Congress yesterday also show a Treasury
Department official expressed concern that a restructuring of
Solyndra’s loan guarantee approved by the administration in
February may have violated the law and Department of Energy
regulations because it gave taxpayer debt a back seat to $75
million in new investment in the case of liquidation.  Subordinating Loan  “Our legal counsel believes that the statute and the DoE
regulations both require that the guaranteed loan should not be
subordinate to any loan or other debt obligation,” Mary J. Miller, assistant secretary for financial markets at the
Treasury, wrote in an Aug. 17, 2011, e-mail to Office of
Management and Budget Deputy Director Jeffrey Zients.  Energy Department spokesman LaVera said yesterday that the
two departments discussed the issue and lawyers with his agency
determined the restructuring was legal “based on a careful
analysis of the statute.”  By the time Miller wrote the e-mail, the company was
approaching bankruptcy and administration officials were
discussing Solyndra’s request for a second loan restructuring.
The Energy Department denied that request on Aug. 30, and the
company closed its doors the next day.  Officials in the White House, including from the chief of
staff’s office and National Economic Council, were aware of
Solyndra’s dire financial state in the weeks before its
collapse, the e-mails show.  Solyndra a ‘*#-@storm’  After participating in one conference call on Solyndra,
Heather Zichal, deputy assistant to the president for energy and
climate change, wrote to an OMB official on Aug. 26, “*#-
@storm.”  On Aug. 11, one OMB official wrote another responding to an
attached news article that quoted Jonathan Silver, the executive
director of the loan guarantee program, describing it as “the
largest and most successful clean energy funding effort in U.S.
history.”  “I wonder if he was unaware of the true situation at
Solyndra,” the OMB official wrote. “Or if he was trying to
salvage something by showing DoE confidence.”  Silver resigned from the post this week to take a position
at a Washington policy center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  