-- 
England Ties Montenegro to Claim Spot at 2012 European Soccer Championship

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-10-07T22:05:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/england-ties-montenegro-to-claim-spot-at-2012-european-soccer-championship.html
England , playing with 10 men, held on
for a 2-2 tie against Montenegro to clinch a berth at the 2012
European soccer championship.  Andrija Delibasic’s goal in injury time earned Montenegro
the home draw in Podorica. Ashley Young and Darren Bent gave
England a 2-0 lead before Elsad Zverotic answered just before
halftime. England’s Wayne Rooney received a red card in the 74th
minute for kicking out at Miodrag Dzudovic.  The tie enabled England to win Group G, with Montengro
guaranteed second place with one match left. The winners of the
nine groups, along with the second-place team with the most
points, qualify for Euro 2012 in Poland and Ukraine. The
remaining eight second-place teams will play off for the final
four spots.  “We’re a little bit disappointed after being 2-0 up, we’re
disappointed to end up drawing the game,” England captain  John Terry  told Sky Sports. “But it’s a great thing to get where
we’ve got, we’re top and we’ve worked hard all the way.”  Greece moved atop its group with one match remaining, as
already-qualified Spain, Germany and the Netherlands maintained
their perfect records.  Greece beat Croatia 2-0 to take the lead in Group F by two
points over its opponent. Greece needs one point at  Georgia  in
its final qualifier to win the group.  European and World Cup champion Spain made it seven
straight wins in Group I with a 2-0 win in the  Czech Republic 
and Germany won its ninth straight in Group A, 3-1 in Turkey.  The Netherlands also made it nine in a row by beating
Moldova 1-0 to win Group E, while Sweden clinched second with a
2-1 win in  Finland . Group C winner Italy drew 1-1 in Serbia.  France beat Albania 3-0 to keep its one-point lead in Group
D over Bosnia-Herzegovina, which routed Luxembourg 5-0. France
and Bosnia-Herzegovina meet in the group finale Oct. 11.  The race for the top two places in Group B will go to the
final game after Russia, Ireland and Armenia all won. Russia
beat Slovakia 1-0 and leads the group with 20 points, Ireland
has 18 points following a 2-0 win in Andorra and Armenia has 17
points after its 4-1 win against Macedonia.  Portugal beat Iceland 5-3 and Denmark topped Cyprus 4-1 to
leave them tied for the lead in Group H with 16 points, three
more than idle  Norway .  The final round of Euro 2012 qualifiers will be played on
Oct. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 