-- 
Eni Sees Libyan Output Recovering in Year, Adding to World Gains

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-10-07T11:04:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/eni-sees-libyan-output-recovering-in-year-adding-to-world-gains.html
Eni SpA (ENI) , Italy’s biggest oil company,
forecast its Libyan production will return to pre-war levels in
a year, contributing to the 1.2 million barrels a day of new
global output that the management anticipates by 2012.  A recovery in gas operations will take two to three months
and oil about 12, Chief Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni  said on
an investor conference call from Brazzaville, the capital of
Congo. Resuming gas operations and opening the Greenstream
pipeline to  Europe  will go ahead in the next few weeks, he said.  Eni produced about 280,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day
in  Libya  before fighting between Muammar Qaddafi and rebels cut
the figure to 55,000 barrels. Libyan output will contribute to
overall growth in production as new fields become active at Eni,
which produced 1.82 million barrels of oil equivalent in 2010.  Venezuela, the  Barents Sea , the Yamal Peninsula, Sub-
Saharan Africa, Kazakhstan and Indonesia are “key hubs” for
long-term growth, Claudio Descalzi, exploration and production
chief, told the call. Fields like Kashagan in Kazakhstan, Junin-
5 and Perla in Venezuela and Tar Sands in Congo will generate 85
percent of new output, according to slides on  Eni’s website .  “Production will increase cash flow generation,” Scaroni
said on the call late yesterday. “Considering Libya, we are
performing not too badly.” The country’s facilities weren’t
damaged and outstanding contracts have been reaffirmed.  Eni was forced to cut its 2011 production estimate on July
29, saying output would be below last year’s levels because of
Libya. Net income fell 14 percent in the second quarter.  Sonatrach Talks  Eni is in the final stages of negotiations with Sonatrach,
Algeria’s state oil company, on gas procurement, while talks
with Russia’s OAO Gazprom are “progressing,” Scaroni said.  The political context surrounding discussions on a possible
sale of Eni’s stake in  Galp Energia SGPS SA (GALP)  are “difficult,”
he said. It’s also “exploring options” on a possible offer of
its holding in gas distribution network  Snam Rete Gas SpA. (SRG)   “Keep in mind that any disposal requires a government
decree,” Scaroni said, adding that he isn’t aware of any plans
for the Italian government to sell its share in Eni.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  