-- 
Merck Wins U.S. Approval for Combination Diabetes Treatment

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-10-07T20:20:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/merck-wins-u-s-approval-for-combination-diabetes-treatment.html
Merck & Co. won U.S. approval for a
pill that combines the Januvia diabetes medicine with
cholesterol treatment Zocor, the first combination of its kind
to reduce cholesterol.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the new drug,
known as Juvisync, for patients with  Type 2 diabetes , the agency
said today in a statement.  Juvisync is the first joining in one pill of a glucose-
lowering medicine with a so-called statin to lower cholesterol.
About 20 million people in the U.S. have Type 2 diabetes, and
it’s common for them to also suffer high cholesterol that
increases risk for heart disease, stroke,  kidney disease  and
blindness, the FDA said.  “To ensure safe and effective use of this product, tablets
containing different doses” of both therapies “in fixed-dose
combination have been developed to meet the different needs of
individual patients,” Mary Parks, director of the FDA’s
Division of Metabolism and Endocrinology Products, said in the
statement. “Dose selection should factor in what other drugs
the patient is taking.”  Januvia, known chemically as sitagliptin, generated $2.39
billion in revenue last year. Zocor, or simvastatin, had 2010
sales of $468 million and has been available in generic form
since 2006.  Merck rose less than 1 percent to $31.61 at the close in
 New York .  Heart Disease   Three in four deaths in people with Type 2 diabetes are
caused by cardiovascular disease, said Sethu Reddy, Merck’s U.S.
scientific director for diabetes and obesity.  Hundreds of thousands of people in the U.S. with Type 2
diabetes may already be taking Januvia and simvastatin pills,
 Michael Davidson , director of preventive cardiology at the
University of Chicago Medical Center, said Oct. 5 in a joint
interview with Reddy.  “High blood sugar and cholesterol issues are so
intertwined, and diabetes and heart disease are so intertwined,
that it makes sense to try to treat them simultaneously, as
opposed to separately and individually,” Reddy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  