-- 
Meridith Webster to Join Bloomberg L.P.

-- B y  
-- 
2011-10-07T13:34:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/meridith-webster-to-join-bloomberg-l-p-.html

Press Release  Will Oversee Expansion of Bloomberg’s Communications and Public
Affairs Efforts in  Washington , New York and Globally  New York -- Bloomberg L.P. today announced that Meridith Webster
will join the company as Director of Communications and Public
Affairs. She will join Bloomberg’s senior communications team
and will oversee the expansion of Bloomberg’s communications and
public affairs efforts in Washington, New York and globally to
support the company’s continued growth worldwide.  Webster will report to Rick Powell, Chief Communications Officer
for Bloomberg L.P. and also work closely with Kevin Sheekey, the
Global Head of Communications and Government Relations and
Chairman of Bloomberg Government.  Webster will join Bloomberg from the White House, where she
served as Senior Advisor to Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel  and to
interim Chief of Staff  Pete Rouse  and where she is currently
serving as Deputy Director of Government Reform for
Competitiveness and Innovation in the Office of Management &
Budget.  “Meridith has a deep knowledge of Washington.  Her experience at
the intersection of public policy and media relations, her
entrepreneurial drive and her ability to strategically manage
domestic and international public affairs issues will play a
vital role in Bloomberg’s growth strategy worldwide,” said
Sheekey.  “I am excited to join Bloomberg as it continues to expand its
already dynamic business into new markets and as it continues to
bolster its growing presence in Washington,” said Webster.  Webster joined the Obama administration in January 2008 as
Deputy Chief of Staff for  Susan Rice , the U.S. Ambassador to the
 United Nations , after working on the Obama-Biden Presidential
Transition Team’s national security and energy and environment
policy working groups.  She earned her law degree from  Georgetown University  and is a
graduate of the University of  California ,  Santa Barbara .  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength - delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately
- is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than
310,000 subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions
build on the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to
allow customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data
and information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government, BNA
and Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data,
news and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond
finance. And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg
Professional service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet
and two magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets,
covers the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia
professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in
 New York , Bloomberg employs more than 15,000 people in 192
locations around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Ty Trippet, +1.212.617.2443,  ttrippet@bloomberg.net 
