-- 
Merkel Says Bank Capitalization to Be EU Summit Topic

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-10-07T15:32:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/merkel-says-bank-capitalization-to-be-eu-summit-topic.html
European Union leaders will discuss
banks’ capital at their summit on Oct. 17-18, with finance
ministers left to carry out the “implementation,” German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said.  Merkel, speaking to reporters in Berlin today after talks
with Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte , reiterated that she is
willing to look into bank recapitalization. Even so, using the
enhanced European rescue fund for banks should only be permitted
as a measure of last resort, she said.  “This summit should deliver a signal related to the way we
proceed on bank recapitalization,” Merkel said. “The finance
ministers will have to work out the details and the
implementation. In any case, I believe we will discuss it.”  Merkel’s comments are her most explicit backing yet for
European steps to help shelter banks from the spillover effects
of the region’s sovereign-debt crisis centered on  Greece .  “We agree that we will follow the advice of the experts
that if there are proposals on how we could recapitalize the
banks, then we will of course do that,” Merkel said. The
European Banking Authority should make proposals on capital, she
said.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who held
closed-door talks with Merkel this morning, said yesterday that
international auditors will probably present their next report
on Greek finances on Oct. 24 and that he expects them to
recommend paying the next tranche of aid.  Not Central Role  “Greece shouldn’t have a central role in this summit as
best I can tell right now,” Merkel said, since the so-called
troika won’t have reported on Greece by then.  Merkel also backed the creation of a special post of EU
commissioner to enforce budget discipline.  “The further parameters” of bank recapitalization
including “how this needs to be done, what conditions are put
in place” have to be provided by the relevant authorities in
 Europe , Merkel said.  “In the first instance, that means the European Banking
Authority,” Merkel said. The EBA is “the institution that can
tell us something,” she said.  Decisions to refinance banks have “to be taken by member
states on the basis of national supervisors’ assessments”
coordinated with the EBA, Olivier Bailly, a spokesman for the
European Commission, told reporters in Brussels today.  ‘New Assessment’  The EBA carried out stress tests in July on the EU’s
banking sector to “assess the capacity or ability of banks to
face future shocks,” Bailly said. “Since the summer we have
witnessed some negative evolution on the markets that require a
new assessment of the situation. That is already happening.”  The EBA “is looking at the situation every week with the
national regulators,” Bailly said. “The national regulators
are in contact with all the banks registered in the member
states. This assessment is going on.”  The commission will soon propose ways for the EU to
coordinate possible recapitalizations, Bailly added.  The EBA hasn’t received a formal request from governments
to carry out renewed assessments on bank capital to gauge the
effect of higher losses on sovereign debt, Franca Congiu, a
spokeswoman for the authority, said today in a phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  