-- 
Merkel Aims to Sign Rare Earths Deal With Mongolia Next Week

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-10-07T13:16:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/merkel-aims-to-sign-rare-earth-deal-with-mongols-official-says.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  will seek to
strike a deal on resources with the Mongolian government during
a trip to Ulan Bator next week that secures access to rare-earth
elements at fair prices, a German government official said.  Mongolia’s potential for rare earths is enormous and
Germany is confident of reaching an outline agreement at
government level that would allow companies to sign individual
contracts ensuring access to the materials, the official told
reporters in Berlin today on condition of anonymity because the
deal has yet to be struck. The official cited Munich-based
 Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering company, which he said
needs rare earths for turbines. German companies may offer
infrastructure and clean-energy investments in return.  As  Europe ’s biggest economy, Germany is at the forefront of
efforts in Europe, the U.S. and Japan to diversify their
sourcing of rare-earth elements used in everything from hybrid
vehicles and flat-screen TVs to weapons systems after the
Chinese government last year announced cuts in production.  China 
produces more 90 percent of the world’s rare earths.  Germany is already looking to draw rare-earth elements from
two Canadian mining projects that former German Economy Minister
 Rainer Bruederle  has said might supply as much as 5,000 tons of
rare earths a year from 2012 or 2013. “There’s the danger that
we could get an iron-ore OPEC or a rare-earths OPEC,” Bruederle
said during a trip to  Canada  last year, comparing the potential
monopoly to the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Merkel will travel to Vietnam as well as Mongolia during
her trip from Oct. 10-13. The European Union aims to strike a
free-trade agreement with Vietnam that Germany strongly
supports, the official said. Merkel will speak about investment
conditions, the bane of corruption and lobby for more legal
security in Vietnam, according to the official.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  