-- 
Erste May Give Up 2011 State Refund Plan, Analyst Poll Shows

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-10-07T15:35:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/erste-bank-may-keep-state-capital-into-2012-analyst-poll-shows.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Austria ’s
biggest lender, may not repay 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion)
in state capital until at least next year, 12 of 15 analysts
polled by Bloomberg News estimate.  Erste, which is also the second-biggest bank in eastern
 Europe , has already missed its goal to redeem the funds in the
third quarter. Of the 12 analysts that don’t expect repayment
this year, 10 predict it to start next year.  Banks and regulators may be keen on retention of the
capital as sentiment about Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
worsens and policy makers consider rescuing the banking system,
analysts said. Erste rose 4.8 percent to 20.70 euros in Vienna
trading, making it the best performer in the Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services index.  Erste rival  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , the third-
biggest lender in eastern Europe, has said it doesn’t plan a
refund for now. Analysts in the poll are split on Raiffeisen’s
repayment schedule, with six estimating it will start in 2012
and six saying repayment will begin even later.  “The European Union may propose coordinated actions to
capitalize banks, and in this situation Austrian banks cannot
repay it for sure,” said Riccardo Rovere, an analyst with
Mediobanca SpA, who rates Erste “outperform” and Raiffeisen
“neutral.”  ‘Marketing Tool’  Erste was the first bank in Austria to get the non-voting
participation capital from the state in 2009, along with 540
million euros from private investors. Chief Executive Officer
Andreas Treichl said on July 29 he had achieved consensus with
the  Finance Ministry  on repaying the state’s portion and was
waiting for approval from the financial regulator and the
central bank, which he expected as soon as this quarter.  Erste’s core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial strength,
stood at 8 percent at the end of June, excluding both the state
and the private portion of the participation capital. Including
the capital, which is as loss-absorbing as common equity and is
recognized until 2017 under the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision ’s new capital rules, the ratio was at 9.5 percent.
Raiffeisen’s capital was at 8.5 percent including 1.75 billion
euros of state capital.  “In the absence of stable markets, preventing any
liquidity issue is the main goal, and core capital is the main
‘marketing’ tool to access wholesale funding,” Rovere said.
“The supervisor seems to advise them to keep it for the time
being, and I would agree with that.”  Volksbanken Failure  Erste may join  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) , whose
planned repayment of 300 million euros of state aid this year
may fail as supervisors are concerned the lender’s capital is
insufficient, three people familiar with the situation have
said. Volksbanken, one of eight lenders that failed the European
Union’s bank stress test in July, is unlikely to get approval
because the bank scrapped its 2011 profit forecast, and because
its asset sales didn’t go as well as planned.  That means Austria is unlikely to receive the 900 million
euros in aid repayments it has budgeted for 2011. The country
has in total provided 5.9 billion euros capital to Erste,
Raiffeisen, Volksbanken, Bawag PSK Bank and nationalized Hypo
Alpe-Adria Bank International AG.  Erste spokesman Michael Mauritz said Sept. 27 that talks
with the central bank about the viability of the repayment are
continuing. The Austrian central bank hasn’t completed its
analysis, spokesman Christian Gutlederer said by phone today.
The Finance Ministry is “emotionless” about the repayments and
leaves the decision to the banks and the supervisor, spokesman
Harald Waiglein said by phone yesterday.  The survey’s results are below.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  