-- 
EU Milk Prices Rose in August as Dairies Lift Payments, LTO Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-07T12:12:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/eu-milk-prices-rose-in-august-as-dairies-lift-payments-lto-says.html
European Union cow’s-milk prices
rose in August as French and U.K. dairies lifted payments to
farmers, farm organization LTO-Nederland said.  Export demand for EU milk powder and cheese is “rather
good” as the euro’s decline against the dollar has made
shipments from the bloc more competitive in international
markets, the Netherlands’ LTO said in a monthly market  review  on
its website today.  The euro has declined 5.7 percent against the dollar since
the start of August amid concern a spreading debt crisis
in the region will slow growth. Currency movements are driving
international demand for dairy at the moment, LTO said.  A “positive factor for EU exporters is the cheaper euro
against the  U.S. dollar ,” LTO said. “EU skim-milk powder,
cheese and whey-powder prices are more competitive and export
demand for these products remains rather good.”  Market activity is “sluggish,” and dairy buyers are
holding off on big purchases amid uncertainty about where
prices are headed, LTO said.  “Global economic uncertainty has been brought about by
the continuing problems in the U.S. and European economies,”
LTO said. “Maybe both regions are on the brink of recession.”  The average August price for milk paid by EU dairies to
farmers was 35.89 euros ($48.23) for 100 kilograms (220
pounds), up 9.2 percent from a year earlier, LTO said. That’s
the  highest price  for the month since the start of LTO’s
international milk-price comparison in 1999, the group said.  In  France ,  Bongrain SA (BH) ,  Danone (BN)  SA, Groupe Lactalis and
Sodiaal raised payments to farmers, while the U.K.’s First Milk
Ltd. and the Netherlands’ Royal Friesland Campina NV also lifted
their milk price, the report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  