-- 
European Stocks Gain for Third Day; Futures Fluctuate Before Jobs Report

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-10-07T08:01:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/european-stocks-gain-for-third-day-futures-fluctuate-before-jobs-report.html
European stocks climbed for a third
day, extending the benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index’s second
weekly advance, as investors awaited the monthly U.S. jobs
report. Asian shares rose, while U.S. index futures fluctuated.  Saipem SpA (SPM)  rose 1.9 percent after JPMorgan Chase & Co.
recommended buying the shares of the oilfield-services
contractor.  Vallourec SA (VK)  sank 3.5 percent after saying second-
half gross operating profit will be similar to the first half.  The Stoxx 600 gained 0.7 percent to 231.8 at 9:00 a.m. in
London as the benchmark measure headed for a weekly rally of 2.5
percent amid speculation policy makers will reach agreement to
shield banks from the crisis and as the  Bank of England  expanded
its bond-purchase program. The gauge has still retreated 20
percent since this year’s high on Feb. 17 and is trading at
about 9.8 times its companies’ estimated earnings, near the
lowest since March 2009.  “It’s not overall positive but also not as negative as
some investors think,” said  Markus Steinbeis , head of equity
portfolio management at the Unterfoehring, Germany-based unit of
Pioneer Investments KGmbH, which oversees about $221 billion
globally. “There are signs policy makers are aware of problems
and taking action so it should help stabilize the market. I’m
quite positive in the medium term. I don’t think the market will
be heavily shocked by jobs data today.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index jumped 2.1 percent, while
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures rose 0.1 percent.  Central Bank Loans  The  European Central Bank  said yesterday it will
reintroduce yearlong loans, giving banks access to unlimited
cash through January 2013. The central bank will also resume
purchases of covered bonds to encourage lending. At the same
time, the European Commission is pushing for a coordinated
capital injection into banks and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
said policy makers “shouldn’t hesitate” if it turns out
financial institutions are undercapitalized.  A report today may show that U.S. payrolls increased at too
slow a pace in September to bring down the  unemployment rate .
Employment climbed by 55,000 workers after no change in August,
according to the median forecast of 91 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent for a third
consecutive month, according to the projections.  Saipem, Nokia Rise  Saipem increased 1.9 percent to 26.45 euros after JPMorgan
raised its recommendation on Europe’s largest oilfield-services
contractor to “overweight” from “neutral.”  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  rose 2.2 percent to 4.43 euros as Samsung
Electronics Co., the world’s second-largest maker of mobile
phones, posted operating profit in the three months ended
September of 4.2 trillion won ($3.6 billion), more than the 3.7
trillion won average of 28 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Axel Springer AG (SPR)  climbed 1.8 percent to 26.82 euros. The
German media company’s possible bid to buy WAZ Media Group’s
stake in Kronen Zeitung newspaper could be blocked by the
Dichand family, which owns half of Kronen Zeitung, Handelsblatt
said.  Vallourec sank 3.5 percent to 42.46 euros for the biggest
decline on the Stoxx 600 after saying that second-half gross
operating profit will be similar to that of the first half, held
back by caution among distributors in non-energy markets and the
movement of the Brazilian real against the euro. Vallourec had
predicted that gross operating profit would increase slightly in
the second half versus the first.  RBS, Lloyds Slip  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Lloyds Banking Group
Plc slid 1.7 percent to 24 pence and 2.8 percent to 34.9 pence,
respectively. Moody’s Investors Service cut the senior debt and
deposit ratings of 12 U.K. financial institutions, concluding
the government will be less likely to provide support for them
if they became financially troubled.  Lloyds TSB Bank Plc and Co-Operative Bank Plc had their
ratings lowered one step by Moody’s, while RBS Plc and
 Nationwide Building Society  were cut two levels.  Smiths Group Plc (SMIN)  lost 1.7 percent to 933.5 pence after the
world’s biggest maker of airport-security scanners was
downgraded to “reduce” from “neutral” at Nomura Holdings
Inc.  Premier Foods Plc (PFD)  slumped 30 percent to 6.97 pence, its
largest drop and its lowest price on record. The U.K.’s biggest
food manufacturer said third-quarter results were
“significantly below our expectations.” Total sales for the
group fell 3.6 percent to 477 million pounds ($741 million) and
the full-year results will miss analysts’ estimates.  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  dropped 2.5 percent to 10.64 euros
after the world’s biggest water company was downgraded to
“sell” from “neutral” at UBS AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer in  London  at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ; 