-- 
European Stock Futures Rise; BHP, Rio May Move, Premier Foods May Decline

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-10-07T06:45:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/european-stock-futures-rise-bhp-rio-may-move-premier-foods-may-decline.html
European stock-index futures climbed,
indicating the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index will extend a
second weekly advance, as investors awaited the monthly U.S.
report on jobs and unemployment. Asian shares rose, while U.S.
futures were little changed.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto  Group may lead gains by
commodity producers as the mining companies rallied in Sydney.
Ericsson AB may be active amid a report that Sony Corp. is
getting closer to an agreement to buy the Swedish company’s
stake in their mobile-phone venture.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  may move after
Samsung Electronics Co. reported profit that beat analysts’
estimates.  Futures on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index expiring in December
rose 0.4 percent to 2,245 at 7:44 a.m. in  London , while FTSE 100
Index futures expiring the same month gained 0.6 percent. The
MSCI Asia Pacific Index jumped 2.1 percent, while Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index futures rose 0.1 percent.  The Stoxx 600 has rallied 1.8 percent this week amid
speculation policy makers will reach agreement to shield banks
from the crisis and as the  Bank of England  expanded its bond-
purchase program.  “The bulls are back in the driving seat -- at least for
now,” said Cameron Peacock, a market analyst at IG Markets in
Melbourne. “The focus should probably lie more with the
improved economic data as opposed to the central bank
interventions, so it’s going to make the non-farm payrolls which
are due for release later today even more critical.”  Price-Earnings Ratios  The Stoxx 600 has still retreated 21 percent since this
year’s high on Feb. 17 and is trading at about 9.7 times its
companies’ estimated earnings, near the lowest since March 2009.  The  European Central Bank  said yesterday it will
reintroduce yearlong loans, giving banks access to unlimited
cash through January 2013. The central bank will also resume
purchases of covered bonds to encourage lending. At the same
time, the European Commission is pushing for a coordinated
capital injection into banks and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
said policy makers “shouldn’t hesitate” if it turns out
financial institutions are undercapitalized.  A report today may show that U.S. payrolls increased at too
slow a pace in September to bring down the  unemployment rate .
Employment climbed by 55,000 workers after no change in August,
according to the median forecast of 91 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent for a third
consecutive month, according to the projections.  BHP Billiton , Rio  BHP Billiton, the world’s biggest mining company, climbed
2.5 percent to A$37.20 in Sydney trading. Rio Tinto, the second
largest, advanced 4.9 percent to A$66.40.  Ericsson may be active after the Wall Street Journal
reported Sony is nearing a deal to buy out Ericsson from their
mobile venture. The newspaper cited people familiar with the
matter. Ericsson’s stake in the business may be valued at as
much as 1.25 billion euros ($1.7 billion), the newspaper said,
citing unidentified analysts. Ericsson spokesman Ola Rembe, Sony
Ericsson spokeswoman Holly Rossetti declined to comment.  Nokia may be active as Samsung, the world’s second-largest
maker of mobile phones, posted operating profit in the three
months ended September of 4.2 trillion won ($3.6 billion), more
than the 3.7 trillion won average of 28 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Saipem SpA (SPM)  may gain after JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised its
recommendation on Europe’s largest oilfield services contractor
to “overweight” from “neutral.”  Premier Foods, Vallourec  Premier Foods Plc (PFD)  may slide as the U.K.’s biggest food
manufacturer said third-quarter results were “significantly
below our expectations.” Total sales for the group fell 3.6
percent to 477 million pounds ($737.7 million) and the full-year
results will also miss analysts’ estimates.  Vallourec SA (VK)  might drop after saying that second-half gross
operating profit will be similar to that of the first half, held
back by caution among distributors in non-energy markets and the
movement of the  Brazilian real against the euro. New projects
will have a negative impact of 60 million euros to 80 million
euros on 2012 gross operating profit, the company said in a
statement.  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP)  and  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) 
may move after Moody’s Investors Service said it took rating
action on Portuguese banks, involving downgrades by one or two
notches of the senior debt and deposit ratings of nine banks and
downgrades by one or two steps of the standalone ratings of six
of these banks.  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  may decline after the world’s
biggest water company was downgraded to “sell” from
“neutral” at UBS AG.  Axel Springer AG may move. The German media company’s
possible bid to buy WAZ Media Group’s stake in Kronen Zeitung
newspaper could be blocked by the Dichand family, which owns
half of Kronen Zeitung, Handelsblatt said.  Accor SA’s Chief Executive Officer Denis Hennequin forecast
slowing growth at  Europe ’s largest hotel company as consumers
and businesses reduce spending on lodging next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer in London at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ; 