-- 
Europe’s Financial Tax Would Have ‘Dramatic’ Impact, Banker Says

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-10-07T12:53:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/europe-s-financial-tax-would-have-dramatic-impact-banker-says.html
The  European Commission ’s proposed
financial-transaction tax, which imposes a levy on stock, bond
and derivative trading, would push business out of  Europe  and
hurt its economic recovery, the head of the Nordic region’s
biggest bank said today.  “Right now we have very fragile financial markets, we know
the funding markets are not working,” Christian Clausen, chief
executive officer of  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  and president of the
European Banking Federation, said in a phone interview. “Any
tax of this magnitude would impact banks and society quite a
lot.”  The plan, set to take effect in 2014 and raise about 57
billion euros ($76.5 billion) a year, would set minimum tax
rates for financial transactions throughout the 27-nation EU,
the European Commission, the European Union’s Brussels-based
executive body, said in a Sept. 28 statement. Clausen said the
tax would have “dramatic” financial consequences as it would
reduce liquidity to Europe’s markets and push trading out of the
region.  The proposal would assess trading of stocks and bonds at a
0.1 percent rate, with a 0.01 percent rate for derivatives
contracts. The tax is meant for banks, investment firms,
insurance companies, pension funds, stockbrokers and  hedge
funds , among other types of financial firms, the EU said.  “It is time for the financial sector to make a
contribution back to society,” European Commission President
Jose Manuel Barroso said last month. The proposal has the
support of two of the EU’s most powerful members, Germany and
 France .  Other countries, such as Britain, home to Europe’s biggest
financial center,  Sweden  and the Netherlands have opposed the
plan, with some saying it is unworkable if not enacted on a
global basis.  Dutch Deputy Finance Minister Frans Weekers told lawmakers
Sept. 29 that the proposal is “no good at all” and would
affect the competitiveness of the EU.  An impact assessment accompanying the proposal says that
the plan would have a “long-run” negative impact of 0.5
percent of gross domestic product. The tax would affect market
behavior and financial-sector business models, such as high-
frequency and automated trading, the EU noted.  The EU said it is seeking to insulate households and small
businesses from the tax, and says banks could charge “not
excessive” fees such as a 10-euro fee on a 10,000-euro stock
purchase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 