-- 
Euro Declines Versus Most Currencies After Fitch Cuts Italy, Spain Ratings

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-10-07T21:05:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/euro-declines-versus-most-currencies-after-fitch-cuts-italy-spain-ratings.html
The euro fell against the majority of
its most-traded counterparts after  Fitch Ratings  cut its rating
on Spain and Italy, highlighting the potential for region’s debt
crisis to spread.  The 17-nation currency erased gains versus the dollar as
Fitch cited factors including vulnerability to the “euro-zone
crisis.” The dollar pared losses against the Mexican peso and
Australia’s dollar as demand increased for a refuge from the
fallout of  Europe ’s debt crisis. The euro and other higher-
yielding currencies gained earlier after a report showed U.S.
employers added more jobs than forecast last month.  “It’s a reminder for people that there’s still a nice
laundry list of issues that they have to get through,” said
Brian Kim, a currency strategist in Stamford,  Connecticut , at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “People don’t want to be too
long risk going into the weekend.” A long is a bet the price of
an asset will rise.  The euro fell 0.4 percent to $1.3378 at 5 p.m. in  New York .
The euro dropped 0.4 percent to 102.66 yen. The U.S. currency
was little changed at 76.73 yen.  Ratings Drop  Italy’s rating was cut to A+ from AA- while Spain’s rating
was reduced two levels to AA- from AA+. The outlook for both is
negative. The ratings company maintained a rating watch negative
on  Portugal , indicating the nation may still be cut to below
investment grade.  U.S. payrolls climbed by 103,000 workers after a revised
57,000 increase the prior month that was more than originally
estimated, Labor Department data showed today in  Washington . The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a rise of
60,000. The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 4 that
policy makers stand ready to take additional steps to bolster
the “sluggish” economic recovery. Bernanke’s commitment to
revive the  U.S. economy  comes after almost three-years of near-
zero  interest rates  and $2.3 trillion of mortgage and
government-debt purchases by the central bank since 2008 failed
to boost growth.  Faster U.S. job growth is a sign employers remain confident
the U.S. will avoid a renewed slump, even as unemployment is
forecast to remain above 8 percent through 2013. The risk that
the world’s largest economy may fall back into a recession has
prompted the Fed and President Barack Obama to announce further
measures to sustain the expansion.  Dollar Index  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners including the euro and yen, rose 0.2 percent to
78.749 after earlier dropping as much as 0.7 percent.  “Any kind of weakness in the dollar is an opportunity to
get long dollar because there are still concerns over global
growth and  Greece  and the euro-zone crisis,” said Eric Viloria,
senior currency strategist for Gain Capital Group LLC in New
York.  Mexico’s peso fell 0.3 percent to 13.4598 per dollar after
earlier appreciating to as much as 13.2313. It gained 3.2
percent this week, after reaching 14.1395 Sept. 23, the weakest
since April 2009. The U.S. is Mexico’s largest trading partner.  Aussie, Canada  Australia ’s dollar rose as much as 1.4 percent before
trading up 0.2 percent to 97.68 U.S. cents. Canada’s dollar,
which earlier advanced to as high as C$1.0235, traded 0.2
percent lower at C$1.0395 per  U.S. dollar .  The ECB said yesterday it will reintroduce yearlong loans
and resume purchases of covered bonds to encourage lending and
the Bank of England reactivated its bond-purchase program to
help revive the U.K.’s faltering economy.  While the ECB took steps to bolster the region’s lenders,
the European Commission is pushing for a coordinated capital
injection into banks. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said
policy makers “shouldn’t hesitate” if it turns out financial
institutions are undercapitalized. Merkel will meet with French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in Berlin on Oct. 9 for their eighth
one-on-one summit in 20 months.  The euro has declined 4.3 percent during the past 12 months
among the 10 developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen appreciated 8.4
percent in the same period and the dollar was up 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  