-- 
European Stocks Post Second Weekly Advance on BOE Easing, U.S. Jobs Data

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-10-07T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/european-stocks-post-second-weekly-advance-on-boe-easing-u-s-jobs-data.html
European stocks advanced for a second
week as central banks eased lending, investors speculated that
policy makers will act to support the region’s debt crisis and
U.S. jobs data spurred optimism the world’s largest economy will
avoid a recession.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO) ,  Rio Tinto  Group and Eni SpA led gains in
commodity shares as base metals and oil climbed. Axa SA,
 Europe ’s second-biggest insurer, rallied 11 percent after
reiterating its earnings target.  Dexia SA (DEXB)  sank 42 percent as
Belgium’s biggest bank headed toward a breakup.  National Bank of
Greece SA (ETE)  slid the most since August.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 2.6 percent to 231.99
this past week as the Bank of England expanded its bond-purchase
program and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she’s ready to
discuss recapitalizing lenders. The gauge has still retreated 20
percent since this year’s high on Feb. 17 and is trading at 9.8
times its companies’ estimated earnings, near the cheapest since
March 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The fact that governments have acknowledged that banks
need to be recapitalized is a relief,” said  Arnaud Scarpaci , a
 fund manager  at Agilis Gestion SA in Paris, which oversees about
$110 million. “This week’s employment numbers were good news
for the market. A lot of investors were betting on a recession
and now they have to realize that won’t happen.”  BOE Bond Purchases  The  Bank of England  said on Oct. 6 that it will boost bond
purchases as government budget cuts and Europe’s debt crisis
jeopardize Britain’s economic recovery. The Monetary Policy
Committee raised the ceiling for so-called quantitative easing
to 275 billion pounds ($423 billion) from 200 billion pounds.  The  European Central Bank  announced the reintroduction of
yearlong loans, giving banks access to unlimited cash through
January 2013. It will also resume purchases of covered bonds to
encourage lending. At the same time, the European Commission is
pushing for a coordinated capital injection into lenders and
Merkel said policy makers “shouldn’t hesitate” if it turns out
financial institutions are undercapitalized.  The European Union will discuss bank capital at its summit
on Oct. 17-18, with finance ministers left to carry out the
implementation, Merkel said yesterday after talks with Dutch
Prime Minister  Mark Rutte . Using the enhanced European rescue
fund to support banks should only be permitted as a measure of
last resort, she said.  “Solving the European debt crisis is all about Germany,”
said Morten Kongshaug, chief equity strategist at Danske Bank
A/S in Copenhagen. “If they want to solve this they can do
it.”  U.S. Economy  U.S. employers added more jobs than forecast in September,
payroll gains were revised up in the prior two months and hours
and earnings increased, helping ease concerns the U.S. labor
market is deteriorating. Payrolls climbed by 103,000 workers
after a revised 57,000 increase in August that was more than
originally estimated, Labor Department data showed yesterday.  National benchmark indexes gained in 14 of Europe’s 18
western markets. France’s CAC 40 rallied 3.8 percent, the U.K.’s
FTSE 100 rose 3.4 percent and Germany’s DAX increased 3.2
percent.  Greece ’s ASE slid 6.8 percent.  Antofagasta, the copper producer controlled by Chile’s
Luksic family, soared 15 percent, the most since February 2009.
Rio Tinto, the world’s second-biggest mining company, climbed
9.5 percent. A gauge of basic-resources shares rallied 6.8
percent, the largest gain in 11 months and the biggest increase
among the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600.  Commodities Climb  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
surged 2.1 percent this week as of 5:28 p.m. in  London ,
rebounding from four weeks of losses. Copper climbed 3.9 percent
for its best weekly performance in three months.  Eni, Italy’s biggest oil company, advanced 10 percent.
Repsol YPF SA, Spain’s largest oil driller, added 8.8 percent.
Total SA, Europe’s third-largest oil company, climbed 6.3
percent. Crude oil for November delivery gained 3.9 percent this
week on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Axa jumped 11 percent. The insurer still expects 10 percent
annual growth in operating earnings per share through 2015, the
company said Oct. 5 in a presentation on its website.  Dexia sank 42 percent, the biggest weekly drop on record,
before shares were suspended on Oct. 6. The bank inched toward a
breakup as France,  Belgium  and Luxembourg sought to protect
their local units from the debt crisis. The stock declined on
concern that the breakup will leave shareholders with little of
value, while S&P downgraded the credit ratings of three units,
citing the group’s limited access to wholesale funding markets.
Trading in the shares is due to resume on Oct. 10.  Greek Banks Slide  Greek banks fell after policy makers signaled they may
renegotiate the terms of the nation’s bailout. Euro-area finance
ministers meeting on Oct. 3 considered “technical revisions”
to the second Greek support package, Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker  said. National Bank of Greece, the country’s
largest lender, retreated 21 percent and Piraeus Bank SA
declined 19 percent.  Bank of Ireland surged 22 percent, the biggest jump since
January 2010. Ireland aims to be the first of three bailed-out
euro-area countries to exit their rescue program, Irish Prime
Minister  Enda Kenny  said. The government wants to sell debt in
2012 and wants to be in the market “as soon as possible,” he
said in a Bloomberg Television interview in Dublin yesterday.  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  advanced 5.5 percent after Brazilian news
website IG reported that the world’s second-biggest brewer is in
talks to be bought by larger competitor Anheuser-Busch InBev NV.
 Nigel Fairbrass , a spokesman for London-based SABMiller, and
Marianne Amssoms, a spokeswoman for Leuven, Belgium-based AB
InBev, declined to comment on the report.  AB InBev shares dropped 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  