-- 
Teva Ordered by U.S. to Sell Generics to Par in Cephalon Deal

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-10-07T22:36:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/teva-ordered-by-u-s-to-sell-generics-to-par-in-cephalon-deal.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
agreed to sell its rights to generic versions of a pain drug and
a muscle relaxant to Par Pharmaceutical Cos. to gain U.S.
approval of its $6.2 billion bid to buy  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)   The Federal Trade Commission also required Teva, based in
Petach Tikva,  Israel , to provide Par the right to market a
generic version of Cephalon’s $1.1 billion wakefulness drug
Provigil for a year. This gives Par access to the generic market
during the six-month exclusivity period following next year’s
patent loss, the agency said today in a statement.  “This settlement preserves competitive markets for current
generic drugs, which are key to holding down the cost of health
care for consumers,” said Richard Feinstein, director of the
agency’s Bureau of Competition, in the statement. “It also
ensures there will be competition among generic drugs introduced
in the future.”  Par, based in Woodcliff Lake,  New Jersey , will buy a
fentanyl lozenge to treat cancer pain and an extended release
form of the muscle relaxant Flexeril, the agency said.  The fentanyl citrate lozenge was developed by Cephalon and
sold as Actiq. Generic formulations are currently sold by Teva,
Cephalon and  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , and  Covidien Plc. (COV) ,
according to the FTC. Actiq and its generic competitors generate
annual U.S. revenue of $173 million, Teva and Cephalon said in a
statement.  Teva’s acquisition of Frazer, Pennsylvania-based Cephalon
would have given the company more than 80 percent of the market,
the FTC said. Teva is the world’s biggest generic-drug maker.  While a generic version of the extended release muscle
relaxant known as Amrix isn’t yet being sold, the Teva and
Cephalon combination would have reduced future competition, the
agency said. The brand name medicine currently generates $125
million in sales, the companies said.  Teva and Cephalon plan to complete the deal by Oct. 14,
provided it wins approval by the European Commission, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  