-- 
Teva, Baxter, McKesson Must Pay $20 Million, Nevada Jury Says

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   L i z   B e n s t o n
-- 
2011-10-07T04:05:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/teva-other-drugmakers-ordered-to-pay-20-million-over-drug.html
A  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
unit and two other drugmakers were ordered by a jury to pay at
least $20.1 million for selling the anesthetic Propofol in a way
that led three colonoscopy patients to develop Hepatitis C.  Jurors in state court in Las Vegas deliberated a total of
seven hours yesterday before finding Teva Parenteral Medicines
Inc., Baxter Healthcare Corp. and McKesson Corp. wrongfully sold
Propofol in vials large enough to be used on multiple patients.
Anne Arnold, Richard Sacks and Anthony Devito contend they
contracted Hepatitis C from reused vials during colonoscopy
procedures.  The jury awarded Arnold, Sacks and Devito a total of $20.1
million in compensatory damages and will consider punitive
damages today. The plaintiffs’ lawyers said during the trial
that they may seek a punitive award of as much as $600 million.  “We believe that the allegations against Teva are without
merit and we plan to appeal this decision,” Denise Bradley, a
U.S.-based spokeswoman for Teva, said in an e-mailed statement.  It’s the second verdict against Baxter and the unit of
Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva over a 2008 hepatitis outbreak
in Nevada tied to Propofol. The trial of the first case resulted
in a  verdict  of more than $500 million against the drugmakers.  Deborah Spak , a Baxter spokeswoman, and Megan Hawkins, a
McKesson spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment on the verdict after regular business hours.  ‘First Step’  “This is a good first step and we’re looking forward to
the punitive damage phase of this case,” Will Kemp, one of the
lawyers representing the colonoscopy patients, said in a phone
interview.  Teva makes Propofol and San Francisco-based  McKesson Corp. (MCK) 
serves as its current U.S. distributor. Baxter, based in
Deerfield,  Illinois , sold the drug for Teva until 2009,
according to court filings. Teva has agreed to cover all damage
awards arising from the Nevada cases on behalf of the
distributors, according to court filings.  In yesterday’s ruling, jurors awarded a total of $9.4
million in compensatory damages to Arnold and her husband, $5.7
million to Devito and his wife and $5 million to Sacks. The
plaintiffs had sought a total of $25 million in actual damages
over the incurable liver disease.  Jumbo-Sized Vials  The drug is an intravenous agent used for sedation or
anesthesia, according to Teva’s  website . The patients’ lawyers
allege Teva intentionally sold Propofol in jumbo-sized vials to
encourage doctors to reuse them, even with the risk of spreading
blood-borne diseases such as hepatitis.  Propofol is the same medication at issue in the involuntary
manslaughter  trial  in  Los Angeles  of  Conrad Murray , who was pop
star  Michael Jackson ’s doctor. The physician is accused of
giving the singer injections of Propofol and other sedatives
that led to his 2009 death.  In the first Propofol case to go to trial in Las Vegas,
jurors awarded  Henry Chanin , a private-school principal, and his
wife $5.1 million in compensatory damages and $500 million in
punitive damages against Teva and Baxter. Chanin argued he
developed Hepatitis C after getting tainted Propofol during a
colonoscopy.  Jurors ordered Teva to pay $356 million of the punitive
damages award while assessing $144 million of the award to
Baxter. Teva officials have asked the  Nevada Supreme Court  to
throw out Chanin’s verdict.  Hepatitis Outbreak  Teva faces almost 300 lawsuits stemming from a hepatitis C
 outbreak  three years ago in southern  Nevada , the company said in
a regulatory filing last month. Probes by Nevada health
officials and regulators from the federal  Centers for Disease
Control  and Prevention blamed the reuse of Propofol vials for
infecting patients with hepatitis.  Last year, a state grand jury indicted  Dr. Dipak Desai , who
ran the Endoscopy Center of Southern Nevada at the time of the
outbreak, on criminal charges. Many of the hepatitis-related
cases were linked to that colonoscopy clinic. Desai also faces
federal charges over the outbreak.  Lawyers for Arnold, Sacks and Devito argued in the almost
two-month-long trial that Teva stopped making smaller Propofol
vials because the larger containers were more profitable. The
drugmaker marketed the 50-milliliter vials knowing doctors and
staff would reuse them to save money, the attorneys added.  Attorneys for Teva and the Propofol distributors countered
that improperly sanitized medical equipment, not reused Propofol
containers, caused some Nevada colonoscopy patients to develop
hepatitis and that the drugmakers shouldn’t be held responsible
for colonoscopy clinics’ shoddy medical practices.  The case is Sacks v. Endoscopy Center of Southern Nevada
LLC, 08A572315, District Court for  Clark County , Nevada ( Las
Vegas ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Benston in Las Vegas at  lbenston@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  