-- 
Leveraged Loans Have Biggest Weekly Drop Since August on Europe Debt Woes

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 
2011-10-07T14:13:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/leveraged-loans-have-biggest-weekly-drop-since-august-on-europe-debt-woes.html
Leveraged-loan prices had their
biggest weekly drop in six weeks as they fell to the lowest
since December 2009 amid concern the U.S. may be headed for
another recession and  Europe  struggles to contain its debt
crisis.  Prices of the debt fell this week 1.12 cents, or 1.26
percent, to 87.44 cents yesterday, according to the Standard &
Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index. Kinetic Concepts
Inc., a wound-care company, proposed selling a $2.2 billion
buyout loan at a discount of 95.5 cents to 96 cents on the
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Demand for risky loans is declining as the European Central
Bank seeks to contain the region’s debt crisis by reintroducing
yearlong loans, giving banks access to unlimited cash through
January 2013, and resuming purchases of covered-bonds to
encourage lending. President  Barack Obama  is urging Congress to
pass his $447 billion jobs bill to guard against a U.S. economic
downturn.  “The situation in Europe is weighing on the market,” said
Jonathan Insull, a  money manager  in New York at Crescent Capital
Group, which oversees about $10 billion of speculative-grade
debt. “The fact that there has been a perceived increase of
 default risk  related to the potential for a recession is
dragging the market down, as well.”  This week investors pulled $196.7 million from U.S.
floating-rate debt funds, which buy leveraged loans, compared
with $193.8 million of outflows the week before, according to
data from EPFR Global. As of yesterday, loan prices in the
secondary market are down 9.04 cents from this year’s high of
96.48 cents on Feb. 14.  Under Pressure  “The banks are under a lot of pressure and scrutiny,”
Insull said. “They aren’t stepping up with their own balance
sheet to take paper when it’s offered to them.”  Kinetic Concepts  will rely more on the  bond market  to back
its leveraged buyout by Apax Partners LLP, the largest LBO since
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., after its bank
financing was cut by 15 percent to $2.2 billion.  Kinetic reduced the size of its term loan B this week by
$400 million to $2.2 billion and increased the size of a senior
secured bridge loan by the same amount to $1.65 billion. The San
Antonio-based company will now pay for its buyout with as much
as $2.55 billion of notes, with the difference being covered by
the secured bridge debt and a $900 million senior unsecured
bridge loan.  “The market is very fluid. There’s a lot of tweaking of
structures to get deals over the finish line,” said Insull.
“There’s so little high-yield issuance and there has been
positive flows,” of cash into funds that buy the debt.  Fund Inflows  U.S. high-yield bond funds had $156.8 million of inflows
last week after investors poured $422.7 million of cash into
them during the week ended Sept. 21, according to EPFR data.
This week they had $762.5 million of outflows.  Bank of America Corp., Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse Group
AG and Royal Bank of Canada are arranging Kinetic’s  term loan 
and investors must submit commitments by Oct. 19 in New York,
according to Bloomberg data.  “In this environment you need to be flexible in terms of
getting a deal done,” Insull said. “You need to be light on
your feet and not married to a particular pricing scenario.”  Kinetic has offered to pay 5.75 percentage points more than
the London interbank offered rate on its term loan, Bloomberg
data show. Libor, a rate banks charge to lend to each other,
will have a 1.25 percent floor.  Loan Spreads  Emdeon Inc., a provider of billing systems and software for
health-care companies, yesterday set the initial  interest rate 
on a $1.2 billion loan it’s seeking to fund its buyout by
Blackstone Group LP. The debt will pay 5.5 percentage points to
5.75 percentage points more than Libor, with a 1.25 percent
floor on the lending benchmark. It has pitched selling the loan
at a discount of 96 cents to 97 cents on the dollar.  Spreads on first-lien institutional loans climbed to about
566 basis points as of yesterday, the highest since July 2010,
according to S&P’s Leveraged Commentary & Data. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point. Yield to maturity has increased to 8.05
percent, the highest since before December 2009, the data show.  The interest rates on the debt have climbed as  consumer
confidence  from July through September was the weakest quarter
in more than two years, when the  U.S. economy  was still in a
recession.  ‘Fragile’ Economy  “Until the housing market heals and works through its
imbalances, the US recovery will be unable to build momentum,”
 Michelle Meyer , an economist with Bank of America, wrote in an
Oct. 5 research report. “And if the economy were to fall back
into recession, the fragile condition of the housing market
would make it a more potent one.”  Long-term  mortgage rates  in the U.S. fell below 4 percent
for the first time on record, as stricter credit standards and a
slowing economy restrain a housing rebound.  President Obama said yesterday the European debt crisis is
putting a “severe strain” on the global economy. The  European
Central Bank  said it would reintroduce yearlong loans for banks
and resume covered-bond purchases, as Greece edges closer to a
default.  While Kinetic and Emdeon seek to close their LBOs, another
large health-care-related buyout agreement has been announced.
Pharmaceutical Product Development Inc. said Oct. 3 that it
agreed to be bought by  Carlyle Group  and Hellman & Friedman LLC
in a deal valued at $3.9 billion.  “Spreads will continue to be elevated,”Insull said. “The
technicals are pretty challenging.”  On average, about $3 billion to $4 billion of
collateralized loan obligations are exiting their investment
period each month, Insull said. CLOs pool high-yield, high-risk
loans and slice them into securities of varying risk and return.  “There’s a steady loss of buying power from CLOs,” he
said. “It’s the silent killer of loan demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in  New York  at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  