-- 
Texas County’s Lawyers to Ask Permission to File MERS Suit

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-10-07T18:59:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/texas-county-s-lawyers-to-ask-permission-to-file-mers-suit-over-fees.html
Attorneys for the  Texas  county that
includes Houston will seek permission Oct. 11 to hire outside
lawyers to sue Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems Inc.
over $100 million or more in unpaid mortgage-filing fees.  The proposal was posted today on the agenda for the Harris
County Commissioners Court, the governing body for the county.
County attorneys will hire the same  law firm , Malouf & Nockels,
that handled a similar lawsuit filed by Dallas last month,
County Attorney Vince Ryan said in an interview today.  The Dallas County district attorney’s lawsuit claimed
Merscorp Inc.’s MERS, which runs an electronic registry of
mortgages, cheated the county out of tens of millions of dollars
in uncollected filing fees. MERS tracks servicing rights and
ownership interests in  mortgage loans  on its registry, allowing
banks to buy and sell loans without recording transfers with
counties.  “Our preliminary estimate, based on very superficial
knowledge, is we’re looking at a minimum of $11 million and it
could be much, much more depending on the number of times the
real estate was used as collateral and should’ve generated a
filing fee,” said Ryan, the Harris County attorney.  The county may be seeking more than $100 million in unpaid
fees, he said. Janis Smith, a spokeswoman for Reston, Virginia-
based Merscorp, declined to comment on the county’s plan.  ‘Huge’  “Our cause is mirrored by every other county in Texas that
can tag onto this,” Ryan said. “This thing is huge.” Ryan
declined to name a bank that Harris County might sue or to say
whether the county will sue a bank for using MERS.  The Commissioners Court must approve hiring of outside
attorneys to pursue the suit before it can be filed, Ryan said.  The lawsuit could be filed next week or the following week,
John Odam, assistant county attorney for special projects in
Harris County, said in an interview today.  Dallas County District Attorney Craig Watkins, who also
sued  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  last month, claimed that his county
could be owed as much as $100 million in filing fees. The clerks
of Kentucky’s Christian and Washington counties sued MERS, Chase
Home Mortgage Corp., CitiMortgage,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Bank of
America and others in federal court in Louisville in April over
unpaid fees, seeking to represent all 120 counties in the state.  Pennsylvania  Suit  Washington County, Pennsylvania, sued U.S. Bank N.A. in
state court over fees last week, contending that MERS was set up
“for the express purpose of circumventing the payment of
assignment of mortgage fees to county governments.” The suit,
brought on behalf of all counties in the state, doesn’t name
MERS as a defendant.  “Because the matter is in litigation, we cannot comment,”
said Thomas Joyce, a spokesman for Minneapolis-based  U.S. Bank .  Branch County,  Michigan , sued MERS, Chase and others in
state court in August, alleging they improperly failed to pay
real estate transfer taxes.  “I don’t think there’s any question this is growing,”
said Christopher Peterson, associate dean and professor at the
University of  Utah  S.J. Quinney College of Law. He said he has
had discussions with officials in Utah considering a similar
claim. He declined to identify the county.  MERS says on its  website  that it aims to place every
mortgage in the country on an electronic, rather than a paper,
system that allows members to buy and sell mortgages.  Buy and Sell  MERS acts as the lender’s nominee and remains the mortgagee
of record as long as the note promising repayment is owned by a
MERS member.  Dallas  County claims this allows banks to buy and
sell loans without properly recording transfers with counties
and paying the fee.  “We’re looking at that suit as a parallel for ours,” said
Ryan, the Harris County attorney. “Ours is very similar.”  Odam said $11 million was a conservative estimate based on
only one transfer per property.  “The evidence will show that there were at least two
transfers, with history showing there have been multiple
transfers with foreclosures and all that’s occurred in the real
estate market in the last few years,” Odam said. Each of these
transactions should have generated a filing fee for the county,
he said.  The cases against MERS include: Dallas County v. Merscorp
Inc., CC-11-06571-E, County Court at Law, Dallas County, Texas;
and Christian County Clerk v. Mortgage Electronic Registration
Systems Inc., 5:11-cv-00072, U.S. District Court, Western
District of  Kentucky  (Louisville).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 