-- 
Texas Rain May Bring Some Relief, Not Enough to Break Drought

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-10-07T18:04:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/texas-rain-may-bring-some-relief-not-enough-to-break-drought.html
As much as 5 inches (13 centimeters)
of rain may fall over drought-parched areas of  Texas  and
Oklahoma today and tomorrow, the  National Weather Service  said.  Conditions in 99.2 percent of Texas are considered severe,
according to the U.S. Drought Monitor. Almost 88 percent of the
state is classified as experiencing an exceptional drought, the
most severe category on  a five-step scale .  “Any rainfall is basically going to help,” said Christine Krause, a weather service meteorologist in  Amarillo, Texas . “We
hope it is going to alleviate some of the drought.”  Storms drawing moisture off the  Gulf of Mexico  starting
later today may bring 3 to 5 inches of rain across northern
portions of  west-central and northern Texas  as well as Oklahoma
and 1 to 3 inches farther south, according to the weather
service.  Last year’s La Nina, a cooling in the  Pacific Ocean , moved
storm tracks north across the U.S., which contributed to less
rain falling in the south and Texas. La Nina has returned this
year and may strengthen in the next three months, according to
the U.S.  Climate Prediction Center  in Camp Springs,  Maryland .  The drought, which caused the state’s driest year since
record-keeping began in 1895, is expected to continue into 2012,
according to John Nielsen-Gammon, Texas’s state climatologist.  Krause said Amarillo has received about 3.79 inches of rain
so far this year, compared with the normal 17.5 inches.  “It is quite a deficit,” Krause said.  This weekend’s rain may come too fast to be “efficiently
absorbed” by the parched soil, she said in a telephone
interview.  Krause said the heaviest rain will fall east of Amarillo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 