-- 
Fed’s Lockhart Says Slowdown Needed to Justify Large-Scale Bond Purchases

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-10-07T16:43:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/fed-s-lockhart-says-economic-slide-needed-for-more-bond-buying.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said he would favor further
large-scale purchases of securities only if the  U.S. economy 
were to slow further or prices were forecast to fall broadly.  “The conditions in which we would invoke another round of
large-scale asset purchases should be pretty demanding
conditions, conditions of a really marked deterioration in the
economy, perhaps some rise in unemployment, and, or deflationary
trends developing,” Lockhart said today in response to audience
questions after a speech in Atlanta. The economy now “is weak
but not dramatically weakening.”  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress this week the Fed
could take further action to aid a recovery that’s “close to
faltering,” with unemployment at or above 9 percent since
April. The European debt crisis, political haggling in the U.S.
and a plunge in stock prices have led to a drop in consumer and
business confidence that may keep hurting spending and hiring.  “There is a mix of data, some of it is negative but some
of it is mildly positive,” Lockhart said at Emory University’s
Goizueta Business School. “So I am keeping an open mind. I do
not think we should take any monetary policy option off the
table.”  Employers added 103,000 workers last month, more than
forecast by economists, and the jobless rate held at 9.1
percent, Labor Department figures showed today. Revisions to
previous reports added a total of 99,000 jobs to payrolls in
July and August.  Spur Growth  Lockhart supported Fed policy makers’ decision Sept. 21 to
adopt a program to push down mortgage and other loan rates in an
effort to spur growth and employment. The Fed plans to extend
maturities of the Treasuries in its portfolio by buying $400
billion of long-term debt and selling an equal amount of
shorter-term securities.  While that program didn’t increase the overall size of the
Fed’s balance sheet, Lockhart said outright purchases of
securities would be a different matter.  “The reason I am somewhat conservative about that is
because actually printing money and buying assets increases the
Fed’s balance sheet,” Lockhart said. “Sooner or later we will
have to reduce it and normalize the position of the central
bank’s balance sheet and holdings. Another round might risk
raising inflation expectations on the part of the public.”  Voted Against Easing  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher , Minneapolis Fed
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  and  Charles Plosser  of the
Philadelphia Fed voted against the Federal Open Market Committee
decision for a second consecutive meeting. They “did not
support additional policy accommodation at this time,” the Fed
statement said.  Lockhart said the Fed’s decision last November to purchase
securities outright was motivated largely by the threat of
falling prices, which could cause a vicious cycle in which
consumers and business put off purchases indefinitely.  “On that basis it was quite successful I think,” Lockhart
said. “Inflation expectations returned to a range that are
reasonably healthy and reasonable and in fact actual inflation
has risen even to a level that is above what we would consider
to be a healthy level of inflation.  “I do believe inflation will subside as we go through the
remainder of this year and into next year,” he said.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and
fuel costs, was up 1.6 percent over the past 12 months, Commerce
Department figures showed Sept. 30.  Rates Fallen  Mortgage rates  have fallen following the Fed’s announcement
of Operation Twist. The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan
dropped before 4 percent in the week ended Oct. 6,  Freddie Mac 
said yesterday. Lower mortgage rates have done little to improve
the housing market after  home prices  have declined by a third
over the past five years.  The Fed also maintained its pledge made in August to hold
its benchmark  interest rate  near zero at least through the
middle of 2013 so long as unemployment stays high and the
inflation outlook is “subdued.” The target rate has been in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Lockhart, 64, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy with Lockhart next voting in 2012. The Atlanta
Fed district includes  Alabama ,  Florida ,  Georgia , and portions of
 Louisiana , Mississippi, and Tennessee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  