-- 
Lockhart: Regulators Must Work to End Bailouts

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-10-07T14:40:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/fed-s-lockhart-says-regulators-must-work-further-to-end-financial-bailouts.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said regulators haven’t yet put in
place a system that would allow orderly failures of the largest
financial firms without taxpayer rescues.  “ The system we should work toward is one in which no
institution is too big to fail,” Lockhart said today in a
speech in Atlanta. “Much is being done in the aftermath of the
Fed’s and the Treasury’s emergency interventions of 2008 to get
to this state of affairs, but, in my view, this is a longer-term
aspiration at this moment.”  The Fed and other banking regulators are working to avoid
more taxpayer-funded bailouts following the rescues of insurer
American International Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc., which
stoked public anger against the central bank and Congress. The
Dodd-Frank Act passed last year mandated the Fed to monitor
emerging risks to financial stability in the wake of the U.S.
recession that ended two years ago.  Lockhart said regulators must raise required levels of
capital to protect against failure of the biggest banks.  “Maintaining this buffer is especially important for the
larger, systemically-important institutions for which government
intervention in a crisis might otherwise be the only response to
a threat to the entire system,” Lockhart said in the text of
remarks at a panel discussion at Emory University’s Goizueta
Business School. “We absolutely must get to a state in which
private shareholders and creditors bear the risks of failure,
not taxpayers.”  Economic, Monetary  Lockhart didn’t comment on the U.S. economic outlook or
monetary policy in his prepared remarks. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress this week the Fed could take further
action to aid a recovery that’s “close to faltering” with
unemployment at or above 9 percent since April.  Employers added 103,000 workers last month, more than
forecast by economists, and the jobless rate held at 9.1
percent, Labor Department figures showed today. Revisions to
previous reports added a total of 99,000 jobs to payrolls in
July and August.  Fed policy makers voted Sept. 21 to adopt a program to push
down mortgage and other loan rates in an effort to spur growth
and employment. The Fed plans to extend maturities of the
Treasuries in its portfolio by buying $400 billion of long-term
debt and selling an equal amount of shorter-term securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  