-- 
Fed’s Fisher Says ‘Far Too Many People’ in U.S. Out of Work

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-10-07T15:15:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/fed-s-fisher-says-far-too-many-people-in-u-s-out-of-work.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of  Dallas 
President  Richard Fisher  said too many Americans are unemployed,
making  job creation  the most urgent issue for the U.S.  “The problem remains in this country that we have far too
many people unemployed and they are unemployed for too long,”
Fisher said in a speech today at the Texas A&M Retailing Summit
in Dallas.  Employers added more payrolls than forecast in September
and job gains were revised up in the prior two months, helping
ease concerns the U.S. labor market is deteriorating, according
to Labor Department data released today. Payrolls climbed by
103,000 workers after a revised 57,000 increase the prior month
that was more than originally estimated, the figures showed.  The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent. Unemployment has
exceeded 8 percent since February 2009, the longest stretch of
such elevated joblessness since monthly records began in 1948.  The Standard Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent to 1,160.95
at 11:13 a.m. in  New York  while the yield on the 10-year
Treasury note rose 0.1 percent to 2.09.  The Dallas Fed chief reiterated his view that the Fed has
done enough to spur the recovery by filling “the gas tanks of
the economy with affordable liquidity.” He also said he doesn’t
support “fiddling with the yield curve,” a reference to the
Fed’s Sept. 21 decision to push down longer-term interest rates.  ‘Step on the Pedal’  “What’s needed now is for employers to confidently step on
the pedal,” he said. Business owners he talks with indicate the
problem isn’t monetary policy, but “making sure there’s
sufficient demand,” followed by worry over fiscal policy and
regulatory reform.  The American consumer is “still under duress,” he said.
“We have a long slog ahead of us.”  Fisher, 62, dissented at the FOMC’s Sept. 20-21 meeting
against the group’s decision to push down longer-term  interest
rates , saying he did not prefer to undertake further easing,
according to an FOMC statement. He also challenged the
committee’s Aug. 9 pledge to keep the benchmark U.S. interest
rate low through at least mid-2013, preferring instead to
maintain a previous commitment to do so for “an extended
period.”  The policy maker has been president of the Dallas Fed since
2005. As a voting member of the FOMC in 2008, he dissented five
times in favor of tighter policy.  An index of consumer prices produced by the Dallas Fed has
shown a 2 percent increase over recent months, Fisher said,
indicating that “the headline inflation rate will likely
gravitate toward that number.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  