-- 
Finnair Forecasts Expects Loss in Second Half on Weak Fourth-Quarter Sales

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-10-07T08:55:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/finnair-forecasts-expects-loss-in-second-half-on-weak-fourth-quarter-sales.html
Finnair Oyj (FIA1S) ,  Finland ’s biggest
airline, forecast a second-half loss as the economic slowdown
starts to impact demand for travel.  The last six months of 2011 will likely be “slightly
negative” on softer fourth-quarter ticket sales, the Vantaa-
based airline said in a statement today. Finnair had previously
targeted a profit for the period.  “Prebookings for business travel, especially in Finland,
have been weaker than expected after the end of the European
holiday season,” Finnair said in the statement. “Those
bookings are unlikely to pick up significantly during the fourth
quarter due to current global economic uncertainty.”  The Finnish airline hasn’t posted an annual profit since
2007 and reported another loss in the first half. Finnair and
other European network carriers are taking a hit as demand drops
and competition increases from discount airlines such as  Ryanair
Holdings Plc (RYA) ,  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  and Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA.  “Finnair’s cost base is too high, including the fuel costs
that are still at a high level,” said Bengt Dahlstrom, a
Swedbank analyst in Stockholm who recommends buying the shares.
“Finnair is doing well in its Asia traffic but it’s suffering
in  Europe , where the competition is very fierce.”  Finnair dropped as much as 31 cents, or 11 percent, to 2.63
euros, the biggest decline since Aug. 5, and was down 2 percent
as of 11:19 a.m. in Helsinki trading. The shares have plunged 43
percent this year, valuing the carrier at 369 million euros
($496 million.)  Forecast Cut  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  last month cut its full-year profit
forecast and said it would deepen capacity cuts this winter
after August’s results were weaker than expected.  SAS Group,
the Nordic region’s biggest airline, said Sept. 27 that workers
must accept pay deals that are lower than the rate of inflation
if it’s to meet cost-cutting targets as a slowdown in traffic
weighs on ticket prices.  Finnair is proceeding with a plan to reach 140 million
euros of cost savings by 2014, it said Aug. 29. The airline in
February announced plans to cut 450 jobs as it withdraws from
unprofitable third-party repair work. Finnair will continue to
“turn over every stone” to cut costs, it said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  